ZDO 834: Composting Facilities | Clackamas County 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Skip to main content
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Translate 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 Jobs 
 Events 
 News 
 Contact Us 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Get email updates 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 Main navigation 
 

 
 
 
 Community 
 
 
 Business 
 
 
 Departments 
 
 
 Our County 
 
 
 I want to... 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Planning and Zoning 
 ZDO 834: Composting Facilities 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 ZDO 834: Composting Facilities 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 834.01 Submittal Requirements In addition to the submittal requirements identified in Subsections 1203.02 and 1307.07(C), an application for a permit for a composting facility shall include: An operational plan to address compliance with Subsection 834.02(C)(2); Location and design of the physical features of the site and composting facility, surface drainage control, wastewater facilities, fences, residue disposal, controls to prevent adverse health and environmental impacts, and design and performance specifications for major composting equipment and detailed descriptions of methods to be used; A proposed plan for utilization of the processed compost or other evidence of assured utilization of composted green feedstocks; A proposed plan to dispose of processed compost that, due to concentration of contaminants, cannot be marketed or used for beneficial purposes, and finished compost which has been stored for two years since processing was completed; and A dust control plan. 834.02 Standards Composting facilities shall comply with the following standards: Minimum Lot Size:  Five acres. Minimum Separation Distance:  Except in the AG/F and TBR Districts, the operational area shall be a minimum of 50 feet from all lot lines and a minimum of 100 feet from perennial drainageways, wetlands, and wells. Transportation: The subject property shall have access from a paved road, and such access shall be paved from the edge of the paved road to a minimum of 50 feet into the subject property from the lot line.  The facility shall have an operational plan that ensures those traveling to the facility, particularly trucks, travel primarily on truck freight routes identified on Comprehensive Plan Map 5-9a, Freight Routes Urban, and 5-9b, Freight Routes Rural.  Alternatively, if no truck freight routes are readily available, the routes selected and used shall not significantly impact the existing traffic patterns. All-weather roads shall be provided from the nearest state highway or all-weather County or public road to the composting facility and shall be designed and maintained to prevent traffic congestion, traffic hazards, dust, and noise pollution. The operator shall install and maintain signage so that routes to the facility are posted.  Effective barriers to unauthorized entry and dumping, such as fences, gates, and locks, shall be provided. Fire Protection:  The subject property shall be located within a fire protection district capable of fire suppression as demonstrated by a letter from the applicable district. Odor:  The tipping, grinding, and storage areas of unprocessed yard debris shall be managed to control odors. Litter:  The facility owner or operator shall, on a daily basis, collect litter and illegally dumped waste on all roads leading to the facility for a distance of one-quarter mile from the facility entrance. Storage and Screening: The storage of composting materials, end products, and equipment shall occur only in the designated operational area. All green feedstocks deposited at the composting facility shall be confined to the designated receiving area within the operational area The operational area shall be screened and buffered pursuant to Subsection 1009.04. The maximum height of stored materials shall be 25 feet or the height of the screening established pursuant to Subsection 1009.04, whichever is less. The green feedstocks shall be ground within one week of receipt. Green feedstocks shall be incorporated into active compost piles within a reasonable time.  Grass clippings shall be incorporated within 24 hours of receipt. Facilities and procedures shall be provided for handling, recycling, or disposing of green feedstocks that are non-biodegradable by composting. Operating Permits and Licenses:  Prior to commencing any activities to establish or operate the composting facility, the applicant shall submit copies to the County of all operating permits or licenses required by the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality or the Metropolitan Service District.  Notwithstanding this requirement, if DEQ or Metro will not issue a permit or license until the facility has been established, the applicant shall submit a copy of such license or permit prior to commencing operation of the facility. Sales:  Composting facilities may include retail and wholesale sales of the finished product, as well as accessory products limited to topsoil, barkdust, and aggregate commonly used in landscaping.  The area used for the sale of the accessory products shall not exceed 10 percent of the area used for composting, or two acres, whichever is less. [Amended by Ord. ZDO-234, 6/7/12; Amended by Ord. ZDO-243, 9/9/13; Amended by Ord. ZDO-268, 10/2/18] Return to the Zoning and Development Ordinance main page. Contact zoninginfo@clackamas.us for additional information." 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Phone: 503-742-4500 
 Email: zoninginfo@clackamas.us 
 
 
 
 150 Beavercreek Road Room #225 Oregon City, OR 97045 
 
 
 Office Hours: Monday to Thursday  8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What's My Zoning? 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Related Events 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 Related Events
 
 
 
 
 Board of County Commissioners, Planning and Zoning 
 
 
 Aug 
 04 
 
 
 11:00 am 
 - 11:30 am 
 
 
 Land Use Hearing: Z0437-25 and Z0438-25 - Aug. 4, 2026 
 More details 
 
 
 
 
 
 Planning and Zoning 
 
 
 Aug 
 20 
 
 
 9:30 am 
 - 10:00 am 
 
 
 Hearings Officer: Z0096-26 - Aug. 20, 2026 
 More details 
 
 
 
 
 
 Planning and Zoning 
 
 
 Sep 
 03 
 
 
 9:30 am 
 - 10:00 am 
 
 
 Hearings Officer: Z0207-26 - Sept. 3, 2026 
 More details 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 more events 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 SHORTCUTS 
 
 
 
 Jobs Procurement Process, Contracts and Grants Pay Online CMap Contact the County Report a Hazard County Code Public Records Request HIPAA/Privacy Concerns Civil Rights ACA Complaint Form Accessibility Statement Title VI Compliance Plan Website Privacy Media Contacts 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 ELECTED OFFICIALS 
 
 
 
 Chair Craig Roberts Commissioner Diana Helm Commissioner Paul Savas Commissioner Martha Schrader Commissioner Ben West   County Assessor/Tax Collector Bronson Rueda County Clerk Catherine McMullen District Attorney John Wentworth Justice of the Peace Kathleen Rastetter Sheriff Angela Brandenburg Treasurer Brian Nava 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Can’t find what you're looking for? 
 
 
 
 
 Search Box 
 

 
 enter your search here 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Get email updates 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ©2026 Clackamas County