ZDO 1102: Design Review | Clackamas County 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Skip to main content
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Translate 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 Jobs 
 Events 
 News 
 Contact Us 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Get email updates 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 Main navigation 
 

 
 
 
 Community 
 
 
 Business 
 
 
 Departments 
 
 
 Our County 
 
 
 I want to... 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Planning and Zoning 
 ZDO 1102: Design Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 ZDO 1102: Design Review 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 1102.01 Purpose And Applicability Section 1102 is adopted to provide standards, criteria, and procedures under which design review may be approved. Design review is required for: Development, redevelopment, expansions, and improvements in: Commercial zoning districts; Industrial zoning districts; HDR, MR-1, MR-2, MRR, PMD, RCHDR, SHD, VA, and VTH Districts; Institutional uses in Urban Low Density Residential, VR-4/5, and VR-5/7 Districts; Townhouses and institutional uses in the HR District; and Other uses as required by the Planning Director, the Hearings Officer, or the Board of County Commissioners. Notwithstanding Subsection 1102.01(A)(1), design review is not required for detached single-family dwellings, manufactured dwellings, prefabricated structures, and uses accessory to detached single-family dwellings, manufactured dwellings, and prefabricated structures. Notwithstanding Subsection 1102.01(A), design review is not required for stormwater management facilities permitted as an accessory or primary use; utility cabinets that comply with Section 830, Utility Cabinets; utility facilities in road rights-of-way; and utility lines. 1102.02 Submittal Requirements   In addition to the submittal requirements identified in Subsection 1307.07(C), an application for design review shall include:    A narrative describing the proposed use;   An engineering geologic study, if required pursuant to Section 1002, Protection of Natural Features, or 1003, Hazards to Safety;   Preliminary statements of feasibility, if required pursuant to Section 1006, Utilities, Street Lights, Water Supply, Sewage Disposal, Surface Water Management, and Erosion Control;  A transportation impact study, if required pursuant to Section 1007, Roads and Connectivity; Calculations demonstrating compliance with Section 1012, Lot Size and Density, if applicable;    A vicinity map showing the location of the subject property in relation to adjacent properties, roads, bikeways, pedestrian access, utility access, and manmade or natural site features that cross the boundaries of the subject property;   An existing conditions map, drawn to a scale of not less than one inch equals 50 feet, showing:  Contour lines at two-foot intervals for slopes of 20 percent or less within an urban growth boundary; contour lines at five-foot intervals for slopes exceeding 20 percent within an urban growth boundary; contour lines at 10-foot intervals outside an urban growth boundary; source of contour information.   Slope analysis designating portions of the site according to the following slope ranges and identifying the total land area in each category:  zero to 20 percent, greater than 20 percent to 35 percent, greater than 35 percent to 50 percent, and greater than 50 percent;   Drainage;   Potential hazards to safety, including areas identified as mass movement, flood, soil, or fire hazards pursuant to Section 1003;   Natural features, such as rivers, streams, wetlands, underground springs, wildlife habitat, earth mounds, and large rock outcroppings;   Wooded areas, significant clumps or groves of trees, and specimen conifers, oaks, and other large deciduous trees. Where the site is heavily wooded, an aerial photograph, at a scale of not more than 1 inch equals 400 feet, may be submitted and only those trees that will be affected by the proposed development need be sited accurately;   Overlay zoning districts regulated by Section 700, Special Districts;   Noise sources;   Sun and wind exposure;   Significant views;    Structures, impervious surfaces, utilities, onsite wastewater treatment systems, landscaping, driveways and easements (e.g., access, utility, storm drainage).  Note whether these will remain or be removed and provide dimensions of driveways and easements; and  All of the following that are on or adjacent to the subject property, including dimensions and, if applicable, names:  existing roads, platted unconstructed roads, railroad rights-of-way, bikeways, curbs, sidewalks, pedestrian pathways, accessways, and trails. A proposed site plan, drawn to a scale of not less than one inch equals 50 feet, showing:  The subject property, including contiguous property under the same ownership as the subject property, and adjacent properties;   Property lines and dimensions for the subject property.  Indicate any proposed changes to these;   Natural features to be retained;   Location, dimensions, and names of all existing or platted roads or other public ways, easements, and railroad rights-of-way on or adjacent to the subject property;   The location of at least one temporary benchmark and spot elevations;   Location and dimensions of structures, impervious surfaces, and utilities, whether proposed or existing and intended to be retained.  For phased developments, include future buildings;  Approximate location and size of storm drainage facilities;  Relation to transit; parking and loading areas, including dimensions and number of individual parking and loading spaces and drive aisles; bicycle racks; walkways; and pedestrian crossings;   Orientation of structures showing windows and doors;  Location and type of lighting;   Service areas for waste disposal, recycling, loading, and delivery;  Location of mail boxes;  Freestanding signs; and Pedestrian amenities;   A grading plan, drawn to a scale of not less than one inch equals 50 feet, showing location and extent of proposed grading, general contour lines, slope ratios, slope stabilization proposals, and natural resources protection consistent with Sections 1002 and 1003;  Architectural drawings, including:   Building elevations, including any building signs. Identify the dimensions, area, color, materials, and means of illumination of such signs. Identify and show dimensions of any electronic message center or other changeable copy sign areas;   Building sections;   Floor plans;   Color and type of building materials; and   Elevation of freestanding sign(s). Identify the dimensions—including total height and height between bottom of sign and ground, area, color, materials, and means of illumination.  Identify and show dimensions of any electronic message center or other changeable copy sign areas; and Gross floor area, in square feet, of each structure; floor area ratio if a minimum floor area ratio standard applies; and number of dwelling units;  A general landscaping plan, drawn to a scale of not less than one inch equals 50 feet, showing the elements required on the proposed site plan and:   Existing plants and groups of plants proposed;   Description of soil conditions; plans for soil treatment such as stockpiling of topsoil or addition of soil amendments; and plant selection requirements relating to soil conditions;  Erosion controls, including plant materials and soil stabilization, if any;   Irrigation system;  Landscape-related structures such as fences, terraces, decks, patios, shelters and play areas; and   Open space and recreational areas and facilities, if applicable. A transportation improvement plan that includes proposed cross-sections for roads to be constructed or improved, including widths of travel lanes, bikeways, sidewalks, curbs, pedestrian pathways, and landscape strips. Identify proposed landscape plan for landscape strips, including street tree type, size and location.  Identify proposed dedication of right-of-way. 1102.03 Approval Criteria Design review requires review as a Type II application pursuant to Section 1307, Procedures, and shall be subject to the following standards and criteria: The proposed development shall be subject to Section 1000, Development Standards, and the standards of the applicable zoning district.   As part of design review in the PMU and RCO Districts, a master plan shall be required if the proposed development does not meet the minimum floor area ratio for the entire site (where phased compliance is permitted by Table 510-2, Dimensional Standards in the Urban Commercial and Mixed-Use Zoning Districts) or if compliance with Table 510-3: Site-Specific Requirements for the PMU District, is not being achieved for the entire PMU site. The master plan shall demonstrate that it is feasible to achieve full compliance with a future phase of development that is not reliant upon adding additional stories to existing or proposed structures or demolishing structures built after the PMU or RCO District was applied to the subject property. As part of design review of development of any portion of the OA District, a master plan shall be required for the subject property and all contiguous lots with a Comprehensive Plan land use designation of Office Apartment. The master plan shall include a plan for consolidation of motor vehicle accesses for the entire Office Apartment site that complies with the access targets of Comprehensive Plan Map X-SC-5, Sunnyside Corridor Community Plan Sunnyside Road Access Management Targets. 1102.04 Design Review Committee A Design Review Committee shall be established pursuant to Subsection 1307.03 and shall have the responsibilities assigned to it by Subsection 1102.04. The Planning Director may review and render a decision on a Type II application for design review or forward the application to the Design Review Committee for review and recommendation prior to rendering a decision. In deciding whether to forward an application to the Design Review Committee, the Planning Director shall consider:    The size of the project, including mass of buildings, site area, landscaping, and parking requirements;   The presence of natural features, such as wetlands, steep slopes, treed area, and riparian corridors;   Visual significance; and  Impact on neighboring properties, particularly where a project is adjacent to a residential area.   An application shall be forwarded to the Design Review Committee for review and recommendation if requested by the applicant or required by the Hearings Officer or the Board of County Commissioners.   The Planning Director may consult with individual members of the Design Review Committee at any point during the evaluation of a design review application or in determining compliance with conditions of design review approval.   1102.05 Approval Period And Time Extension Approval of design review is valid for four years from the date of the final decision. If the County's final decision is appealed, the approval period shall commence on the date of the final appellate decision. During this four-year period, the approval shall be implemented, or the approval will become void.  Implemented means all major development permits shall be obtained and maintained for the approved development, or if no major development permits are required to complete the development contemplated by the design review approval, implemented means all other necessary County development permits (e.g., grading permit, building permit for an accessory structure) shall be obtained and maintained. A major development permit is: A building permit for a new primary structure that was part of the design review approval; or A permit issued by the County for parking lot or road improvements required by the design review approval. If the design review approval is not implemented within the initial approval period established by Subsection 1102.05(A), a two-year time extension may be approved pursuant to Section 1310, Time Extension. If the design review approval is implemented, a master plan approved as part of the design review approval remains applicable to future development of the subject property unless a modification to the master plan, or a new master plan, is approved or the requirement for master planning no longer applies to the subject property. [Amended by Ord. ZDO-224, 5/31/2011; Amended by Ord. ZDO-230, 9/26/2011; Amended by Ord. ZDO-249, 10/13/2014; Amended by Ord. ZDO-250, 10/13/2014; Amended by Ord. ZDO-248, 10/13/2014; Amended by Ord. ZDO-252, 6/1/2015; Amended by Ord. ZDO-266, 5/23/2018; Amended by Ord. ZDO-282, 7/1/2022; Amended by Ord. ZDO-283, 9/5/2023; Amended by Ord. ZDO-285, 9/3/2024; Amended by Ord. ZDO-288, 9/9/2024] Return to the Zoning and Development Ordinance main page. Contact zoninginfo@clackamas.us for additional information. 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Phone: 503-742-4500 
 Email: zoninginfo@clackamas.us 
 
 
 
 150 Beavercreek Road Room #225 Oregon City, OR 97045 
 
 
 Office Hours: Monday to Thursday  8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What's My Zoning? 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Related Events 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 Related Events
 
 
 
 
 Board of County Commissioners, Planning and Zoning 
 
 
 Aug 
 04 
 
 
 11:00 am 
 - 11:30 am 
 
 
 Land Use Hearing: Z0437-25 and Z0438-25 - Aug. 4, 2026 
 More details 
 
 
 
 
 
 Planning and Zoning 
 
 
 Aug 
 20 
 
 
 9:30 am 
 - 10:00 am 
 
 
 Hearings Officer: Z0096-26 - Aug. 20, 2026 
 More details 
 
 
 
 
 
 Planning and Zoning 
 
 
 Sep 
 03 
 
 
 9:30 am 
 - 10:00 am 
 
 
 Hearings Officer: Z0207-26 - Sept. 3, 2026 
 More details 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 more events 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 SHORTCUTS 
 
 
 
 Jobs Procurement Process, Contracts and Grants Pay Online CMap Contact the County Report a Hazard County Code Public Records Request HIPAA/Privacy Concerns Civil Rights ACA Complaint Form Accessibility Statement Title VI Compliance Plan Website Privacy Media Contacts 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 ELECTED OFFICIALS 
 
 
 
 Chair Craig Roberts Commissioner Diana Helm Commissioner Paul Savas Commissioner Martha Schrader Commissioner Ben West   County Assessor/Tax Collector Bronson Rueda County Clerk Catherine McMullen District Attorney John Wentworth Justice of the Peace Kathleen Rastetter Sheriff Angela Brandenburg Treasurer Brian Nava 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Can’t find what you're looking for? 
 
 
 
 
 Search Box 
 

 
 enter your search here 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Get email updates 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ©2026 Clackamas County