ZDO 819: Recycling Centers, Transfer Stations, And Recyclable Drop-Off Sites | Clackamas County 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Skip to main content
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Translate 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 Jobs 
 Events 
 News 
 Contact Us 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Get email updates 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 Main navigation 
 

 
 
 
 Community 
 
 
 Business 
 
 
 Departments 
 
 
 Our County 
 
 
 I want to... 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Planning and Zoning 
 ZDO 819: Recycling Centers, Transfer Stations, And Recyclable Drop-Off Sites 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 ZDO 819: Recycling Centers, Transfer Stations, And Recyclable Drop-Off Sites 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 819.01 Standards For Recycling Centers And Transfer Stations Access:  The facility shall have access to major roadways and truck freight routes.  The facility shall have an operational plan that ensures those traveling to the facility, particularly trucks, travel primarily on truck freight routes identified on Comprehensive Plan Maps 5-9a through 5-9d. Air Quality:  The discharge of contaminants created by the facility shall not exceed the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) air quality standards. Noise:  Sound created by the facility and audible off the subject property shall not exceed the maximum permitted by DEQ. Storage: Any storage of material shall occur only in a totally enclosed area with proper air quality controls.  The storage of uncompacted material shall not exceed one day. Source separated materials, excluding yard debris, shall be stored in containers.  These containers shall be located in an enclosed area. Yard debris shall be removed on at least a weekly basis.  Storage shall not exceed requirements established by DEQ. Temporary storage areas for all materials recovered from processing shall be totally enclosed. Signs: A clearly visible and legible identification sign shall be posted at the entrance to the facility.  The sign shall include the name of the facility, name and phone number of the operator, and hours of operation. A sign describing recycling services and fees shall be posted at the facility. Hazardous Waste Handling: No disposal of hazardous and biomedical wastes on site shall be allowed except in accordance with Oregon Revised Statutes Chapter 459 and Oregon Administrative Rules Chapter 340. The operator shall provide a covered area for handling or storage of incidental hazardous, toxic, or other detrimental materials.  The area shall provide positive isolation from sanitary and storm sewer systems. The operator shall prepare and implement an incidental hazardous waste containment and cleanup plan approved by DEQ. Safety Measures: Transfer of waste from one vehicle or container to another vehicle or container shall be done within an enclosed containment area designed to ensure that waste materials do not fall onto the ground or enter the groundwater or a water feature, water system, drainageway, or drainage system. The facility shall establish and implement emergency operating procedures to ensure that minimal risk exists to the public in the case of an emergency.  The procedures shall include training programs and practice drills. Litter:  A litter control plan shall be adopted to control and provide for the removal of facility-related litter along routes leading to and in the vicinity of the facility.  The litter control plan shall include the following elements: Establish, as appropriate, gates, signs, and other traffic control devices that direct facility-related traffic to the facility along approved routes. Establish a patrol and schedule for removal of litter and illegally dumped waste along all routes to the facility for a distance of one-half mile from the facility entrance.  Litter removal within this area shall be completed a minimum of twice daily. The facility operator shall document and remove, for proper disposal, all illegal dumping occurring in the patrol area.  The operator shall remove illegally dumped waste within 24 hours of the discovery of the illegal dump or within 12 hours of being notified of the illegal dump by the County.  The operator shall provide signs so that routes to the facility are posted and shall post at the facility, in a location visible to the public, the proper routes providing access to the facility and differential fees for dumping covered and uncovered loads at the facility. The operator shall annually publish and distribute throughout the area served by the facility a brochure that includes the proper routes providing access to the facility and the fees for bringing both covered and uncovered loads to the facility and explains and encourages recycling. 819.02 Standards For Recyclable Drop-Off Sites Recyclable drop-off sites shall comply with the following standards: Recyclable drop-off-sites shall: Not obstruct entrances, exits, onsite traffic circulation, or parking; Not be placed in required landscape areas; Be clean, attractively painted, and maintained at all times; Be kept clean and free of debris.  All unwanted materials and debris shall be properly disposed of;  Be designed such that collected recyclable materials are totally enclosed and cannot be removed by unauthorized parties; Only be used for the collection of domestic recyclable or reusable materials such as paper, corrugated paper, glass, tin, aluminum, plastics, and clothing.  Yard debris, appliances, and other large items that may otherwise be repairable, recyclable, or reusable are not acceptable;  Be removed or emptied within five days of becoming full, to avoid accumulation of materials outside the box or depot trailer; and Be labeled identifying the owner and telephone number to contact in the event that the container and surrounding area becomes a nuisance.  Labeling shall also clearly identify the material(s) accepted and warn that any other items are not acceptable Siting, maintenance, and hauling shall be coordinated through the area's franchised collector or by a party licensed or permitted by the County. The local fire marshal shall be consulted concerning design and siting of drop boxes and mobile depots. [Amended by Ord. ZDO-252, 6/1/15; Amended by Ord. ZDO-268, 10/2/18] Return to the Zoning and Development Ordinance main page. Contact zoninginfo@clackamas.us for additional information." 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Phone: 503-742-4500 
 Email: zoninginfo@clackamas.us 
 
 
 
 150 Beavercreek Road Room #225 Oregon City, OR 97045 
 
 
 Office Hours: Monday to Thursday  8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What's My Zoning? 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Related Events 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 Related Events
 
 
 
 
 Board of County Commissioners, Planning and Zoning 
 
 
 Aug 
 04 
 
 
 11:00 am 
 - 11:30 am 
 
 
 Land Use Hearing: Z0437-25 and Z0438-25 - Aug. 4, 2026 
 More details 
 
 
 
 
 
 Planning and Zoning 
 
 
 Aug 
 20 
 
 
 9:30 am 
 - 10:00 am 
 
 
 Hearings Officer: Z0096-26 - Aug. 20, 2026 
 More details 
 
 
 
 
 
 Planning and Zoning 
 
 
 Sep 
 03 
 
 
 9:30 am 
 - 10:00 am 
 
 
 Hearings Officer: Z0207-26 - Sept. 3, 2026 
 More details 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 more events 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 SHORTCUTS 
 
 
 
 Jobs Procurement Process, Contracts and Grants Pay Online CMap Contact the County Report a Hazard County Code Public Records Request HIPAA/Privacy Concerns Civil Rights ACA Complaint Form Accessibility Statement Title VI Compliance Plan Website Privacy Media Contacts 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 ELECTED OFFICIALS 
 
 
 
 Chair Craig Roberts Commissioner Diana Helm Commissioner Paul Savas Commissioner Martha Schrader Commissioner Ben West   County Assessor/Tax Collector Bronson Rueda County Clerk Catherine McMullen District Attorney John Wentworth Justice of the Peace Kathleen Rastetter Sheriff Angela Brandenburg Treasurer Brian Nava 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Can’t find what you're looking for? 
 
 
 
 
 Search Box 
 

 
 enter your search here 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Get email updates 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ©2026 Clackamas County