ZDO 702: Open Space Management District (OSM) | Clackamas County 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Skip to main content
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Translate 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 Jobs 
 Events 
 News 
 Contact Us 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Get email updates 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 Main navigation 
 

 
 
 
 Community 
 
 
 Business 
 
 
 Departments 
 
 
 Our County 
 
 
 I want to... 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Planning and Zoning 
 ZDO 702: Open Space Management District (OSM) 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 ZDO 702: Open Space Management District (OSM) 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 702.01 Purpose The intent of the Open Space Management (OSM) District is to preserve and manage the County's committed open space resources for the benefit, health, and welfare of the people. These resources provide the community with recreation areas, help satisfy a need for contrast with the built environment, protect natural areas and provide areas of quiet contemplation and enjoyment of the natural environment. 702.02 Areas Of Application The OSM District shall apply to those areas identified as urban on the Comprehensive Plan and Mount Hood Community Plan maps, in Metro's Urban Reserve Areas, or identified in the Metropolitan Greenspaces Master Plan. Parks, whether existing, acquired, or dedicated in the future (see Section 1011 for dedication requirements); Other public and private recreation areas, including school playgrounds and golf courses; Cemeteries; Unique or distinctive natural areas which have been either dedicated to the public or preserved through an easement; and Natural areas in Metro's Urban Reserve Areas or identified in the Metropolitan Greenspaces Master Plan, when under public or common ownership. 702.03 Primary Uses Public and private outdoor recreation facilities, and parks, including covered but not enclosed areas. Such facilities may include ball fields, swimming pools, play equipment, driving ranges, tennis courts, community gardens, fountain courts, and plazas, provided such uses and facilities are not intended for the purpose of obtaining a commercial profit. These uses are allowed in the urban area and urban services areas. Outside the urban areas these uses are subject to Subsection 702.05; Nature trails, bird sanctuaries, nature conservancies, and other similar natural areas provided such uses are not intended for the purpose of obtaining a commercial profit; Cemeteries; Utility cabinets, subject to Section 830, Utility Cabinets; Utility facilities, except utility lines, in road rights-of-way; Utility lines, except as established by Subsections 702.05(F) and (G); Stormwater management facilities. In the Clackamas River flood plain: surface water management biofiltration ponds and surface water pollution reduction facilities that minimize impact on the natural environment; Areas suitable for flood storage and flood mitigation purposes; and Wetland mitigation and enhancement facilities. 702.04 Accessory Uses Accessory uses listed under Subsection 702.04(B) may be allowed, provided that any structure shall be designed and integrated into the site by: Minimizing visual impacts by landscaping; and Providing skirting for manufactured dwellings, residential trailers, recreational vehicles, and other structures that do not have a continuous foundation. Accessory uses permitted subject to the above conditions include: A caretaker's dwelling;    Restroom and locker room facilities;    Information and interpretive centers; Pro shops and other concession sales uses incidental to a primary use, provided the combined total area devoted to this use does not exceed 500 square feet; and Maintenance buildings associated with a primary use; Parking and loading areas;   Bus and mass transit shelters;   Security facilities, such as lights, gates, and fences;    Clubhouses and lodges;    Cemetery office buildings, crematories, and mausoleums in conjunction with a cemetery.  Crematories are subject to Section 808, Cemeteries and Crematories;   Rainwater collection systems; Solar collection systems; Electric vehicle charging stations; Stormwater management facilities; Utility service equipment; and Utility service lines. 702.05 Conditional Uses The following are conditional uses in the OSM District, approval of which is subject to Section 1203, Conditional Uses.    Indoor recreation facilities, meeting rooms, interpretive centers, and other similar uses provided such uses are not intended for the purpose of obtaining a commercial profit; Fire stations, public schools, and libraries when associated with open space or recreational facilities; Places of worship, subject to Section 804; Pro shops and other concession sales uses incidental to a primary use exceeding the area standards of Subsection 702.04(B)(4); Water treatment facilities and other utility facilities that exceed the limitations of primary uses in Subsection 702.03; Gas transmission lines; Electric transmission lines; Utility carrier cabinets that do not comply with Section 830, Utility Carrier Cabinets, and are outside a road right-of-way; and Any use customarily provided in public or private recreation areas. 702.06 Development Standards Development in the OSM District is subject to the applicable provisions of Sections 1000, Development Standards, and 1100, Development Review Process.  In addition, improvements shall comply with the following standards: Landscape the site to produce a setting appropriate to its function. Provide an efficient internal circulation system and facilities layout plan. Maximize access for pedestrians, bicyclists, transit riders, and people with disabilities in active recreation areas. Provide conveniences for users with disabilities. In the case of parks, conform to the classifications and standards in Comprehensive Plan Table 9-1. Locate principal and accessory buildings a minimum of 10 feet from any lot in a residential zoning district. Community and Design Plans:  Development within a Community or Design Plan area identified in Chapter 10, Community Plans and Design Plans, of the Comprehensive Plan shall comply with the specific policies and standards for the adopted Community or Design Plan.  [Amended by Ord. ZDO-224, 5/31/2011; Amended by Ord. ZDO-248, 10/13/2014; Amended by Ord. ZDO-268, 10/2/2018; Amended by Ord. ZDO-287, 8/3/2023; Amended by Ord. ZDO-288, 9/9/2024] Return to the Zoning and Development Ordinance main page. Contact zoninginfo@clackamas.us for additional information." 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Phone: 503-742-4500 
 Email: zoninginfo@clackamas.us 
 
 
 
 150 Beavercreek Road Room #225 Oregon City, OR 97045 
 
 
 Office Hours: Monday to Thursday  8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What's My Zoning? 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Related Events 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 Related Events
 
 
 
 
 Board of County Commissioners, Planning and Zoning 
 
 
 Aug 
 04 
 
 
 11:00 am 
 - 11:30 am 
 
 
 Land Use Hearing: Z0437-25 and Z0438-25 - Aug. 4, 2026 
 More details 
 
 
 
 
 
 Planning and Zoning 
 
 
 Aug 
 20 
 
 
 9:30 am 
 - 10:00 am 
 
 
 Hearings Officer: Z0096-26 - Aug. 20, 2026 
 More details 
 
 
 
 
 
 Planning and Zoning 
 
 
 Sep 
 03 
 
 
 9:30 am 
 - 10:00 am 
 
 
 Hearings Officer: Z0207-26 - Sept. 3, 2026 
 More details 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 more events 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 SHORTCUTS 
 
 
 
 Jobs Procurement Process, Contracts and Grants Pay Online CMap Contact the County Report a Hazard County Code Public Records Request HIPAA/Privacy Concerns Civil Rights ACA Complaint Form Accessibility Statement Title VI Compliance Plan Website Privacy Media Contacts 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 ELECTED OFFICIALS 
 
 
 
 Chair Craig Roberts Commissioner Diana Helm Commissioner Paul Savas Commissioner Martha Schrader Commissioner Ben West   County Assessor/Tax Collector Bronson Rueda County Clerk Catherine McMullen District Attorney John Wentworth Justice of the Peace Kathleen Rastetter Sheriff Angela Brandenburg Treasurer Brian Nava 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Can’t find what you're looking for? 
 
 
 
 
 Search Box 
 

 
 enter your search here 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Get email updates 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ©2026 Clackamas County