ZDO 1021: Solid Waste And Recyclable Material Collection | Clackamas County 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Skip to main content
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Translate 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 Jobs 
 Events 
 News 
 Contact Us 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Get email updates 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 Main navigation 
 

 
 
 
 Community 
 
 
 Business 
 
 
 Departments 
 
 
 Our County 
 
 
 I want to... 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Planning and Zoning 
 ZDO 1021: Solid Waste And Recyclable Material Collection 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 ZDO 1021: Solid Waste And Recyclable Material Collection 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 1021.01 Applicability Section 1021 applies to: Multifamily dwellings; and Institutional, commercial, and industrial developments. 1021.02 Definitions In addition to the definitions in Chapter 10.03, Solid Waste and Wastes Management, of the Clackamas County Code the following definitions apply to Section 1021: Compactor:  Any self-contained, power-driven, mechanical equipment designed for the containment and compaction of solid waste or wastes or recyclable materials. Container:  A receptacle with wheels, one cubic yard or larger in size, used to store solid waste or wastes or recyclable materials, but not a drop box or compactor. Drop Box:  A single container designed for the storage and collection of large volumes of solid waste or wastes or recyclable materials, which is usually 10 cubic yards or larger in size. Receptacle:  A can, cart, container, drop box, compactor, recycling bin, or any other means of containment of solid waste or wastes or recyclable materials. Enclosure:  A structure designed to provide shelter for receptacles. Recycling Shelter:  A pre-manufactured structure designed for containment and storage of recyclable materials. Recycling and Solid Waste Service Area:  An area designed and established for the purpose of satisfying the local collection service franchisee's service requirements. 1021.03 General Standards Pads:  Compactors, containers, and drop boxes shall be located on a level Portland Cement concrete pad, a minimum four inches thick, at ground level or other location compatible with the local collection service franchisee's equipment at the time of construction.  The pad shall be designed to discharge surface water runoff to avoid ponding. Recycling and Solid Waste Service Areas: Recycling receptacles shall be designed and located to serve the collection requirements for the specific type of material. Recycling service areas shall be located in close proximity to the solid waste container areas and be accessible to the local collection service franchisee's equipment. Recycling receptacles or shelters located outside a structure shall have lids and be covered by a roof constructed of water- and insect-resistive material.  The location of recycling service areas and method of storage shall be approved by the local fire marshal. Recycling and solid waste service areas shall be at ground level and be accessible to the local collection service franchisee. Recycling and solid waste service areas shall be used only for storing solid waste and recyclable materials. Recycling and solid waste service areas and equipment shall be maintained in a clean and safe condition pursuant to Chapter 10.03, Solid Waste and Wastes Management, of the Clackamas County Code. Special Wastes or Recyclable Materials: Hazardous wastes defined in Oregon Revised Statutes 466.005 shall be located, prepared, stored, maintained, collected, transported, and disposed in a manner acceptable to the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality. Containers used to store cooking oils, grease, or animal renderings for recycling or disposal shall not be located in the principal recyclable materials or solid waste storage areas.  These materials shall be stored in a separate storage area designed for such purpose. 1021.04 Enclosure And Gate Standards Gate Access:  Gates shall be designed to permit sufficient service access for the local collection service franchisee's equipment and personnel. Gate Swing:  The gate swing shall be free of obstructions and have restrainers in the open and closed positions. Bumper Curb:  Enclosures constructed of wood or chain link fencing material shall contain a two- to four-inch high bumper curb at ground level located 12 inches inside the perimeter walls of the enclosure or fencing to prevent damage from container impacts. Bumper Rail:  Enclosures constructed of concrete, brick, and masonry block or similar materials shall contain a bumper curb described in Subsection 1021.04(C) or a bumper rail to prevent damage from container impacts.  The rail shall be secured by anchor bolts recessed in the rail within the perimeter walls of the enclosure at a height compatible with the receptacle. Obstructions and Accumulations:  All areas around the receptacles shall be kept free of obstructions and accumulations of waste matter, grease, oil, water, and standing water. 1021.05 Receptacle Standards Containers:  Enclosures shall be designed consistent with the following standards: Length and width of the service container. A minimum of two feet, including pad area, shall be provided around the sides and rear of each container. A minimum three feet, including pad area, shall be provided in front of each container for maneuverability in depositing solid waste or recyclable materials.  In cases where the containers face each other, a minimum four feet shall be provided. Containers two cubic yards or less in size shall be provided with a minimum nine feet of unobstructed overhead or vertical clearance for servicing. Containers greater than two cubic yards in size shall be provided with a minimum 20 feet of unobstructed overhead or vertical clearance for servicing. Drop Boxes and Compactors:   The pad shall be a minimum of 14 feet wide and a minimum of five feet longer than the length of the drop box or compactor.   The pad shall be located a minimum of two feet from any perimeter wall or structure.   Drop boxes and compactors shall be located a minimum of five feet from any combustible wall, structure, opening, or overhang.  This may be reduced to a minimum of two feet provided the pad is located adjacent to a noncombustible wall, structure, opening, or overhang.   Loading dock areas shall have a guide rail and bumper stop placed at ground level or at dock level where the rear of the drop box or compactor is to rest to protect any enclosure, wall, or structure from damage due to loading or unloading.   Compactors shall be compatible with the local collection service franchisee's equipment and weight limits prescribed by state and local law.  1021.06 Vehicle Access Vehicular access to the front of a container pad, shelter, or enclosure shall be a minimum of 45 feet long and a minimum of 12 feet wide.   Vehicular access to service a drop box or compactor shall include the pad length required in Subsection 1021.06(A) plus a minimum of 65 feet in front of the loading hook placement position.   The vehicular access to a pad or enclosure shall be hard-surfaced consistent with the off-street parking provisions of Section 1015, Parking and Loading.   In the absence of an on-site through street or driveway, a cul-de-sac with a minimum 50-foot turning radius shall be provided for vehicle maneuvering at the end of a private dead-end street or driveway.  A standard emergency services hammerhead turnaround, consistent with the County's standards for road improvements, may be granted in lieu of the cul-de-sac if the local fire district approves the design.   The grade for access to the pad or enclosure shall not exceed three percent.  Exceptions may be granted when compatible with the equipment manufacturer's specifications and consistent with Subsection 1021.08. 1021.07 Signs "No parking" signs shall be placed in a prominent location on the enclosure or shelter and painted on the pavement in front of the enclosure or shelter to provide unobstructed and safe access for servicing receptacles.  Signs clearly identifying recycling containers and type of recyclable material shall be posted on each container. 1021.08 Modifications Modifications to the standards of Section 1021 may be permitted when: The modifications are consistent with the provision of: Efficient, safe, and convenient siting of recycling and solid waste service areas; and Efficient, safe, and convenient on-site maneuvering of collection vehicles, equipment, and personnel for servicing recycling and solid waste service areas; and Written evidence is provided from the local collection service franchisee that the proposed modifications are compatible with the franchisee's methods of operation. [Amended by Ord. ZDO-224, 5/31/11; Amended by Ord. ZDO-268, 10/2/18; Amended by Ord. ZDO-282, 7/1/22] Return to the Zoning and Development Ordinance main page. Contact zoninginfo@clackamas.us for additional information." 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Phone: 503-742-4500 
 Email: zoninginfo@clackamas.us 
 
 
 
 150 Beavercreek Road Room #225 Oregon City, OR 97045 
 
 
 Office Hours: Monday to Thursday  8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What's My Zoning? 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Related Events 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 Related Events
 
 
 
 
 Board of County Commissioners, Planning and Zoning 
 
 
 Aug 
 04 
 
 
 11:00 am 
 - 11:30 am 
 
 
 Land Use Hearing: Z0437-25 and Z0438-25 - Aug. 4, 2026 
 More details 
 
 
 
 
 
 Planning and Zoning 
 
 
 Aug 
 20 
 
 
 9:30 am 
 - 10:00 am 
 
 
 Hearings Officer: Z0096-26 - Aug. 20, 2026 
 More details 
 
 
 
 
 
 Planning and Zoning 
 
 
 Sep 
 03 
 
 
 9:30 am 
 - 10:00 am 
 
 
 Hearings Officer: Z0207-26 - Sept. 3, 2026 
 More details 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 more events 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 SHORTCUTS 
 
 
 
 Jobs Procurement Process, Contracts and Grants Pay Online CMap Contact the County Report a Hazard County Code Public Records Request HIPAA/Privacy Concerns Civil Rights ACA Complaint Form Accessibility Statement Title VI Compliance Plan Website Privacy Media Contacts 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 ELECTED OFFICIALS 
 
 
 
 Chair Craig Roberts Commissioner Diana Helm Commissioner Paul Savas Commissioner Martha Schrader Commissioner Ben West   County Assessor/Tax Collector Bronson Rueda County Clerk Catherine McMullen District Attorney John Wentworth Justice of the Peace Kathleen Rastetter Sheriff Angela Brandenburg Treasurer Brian Nava 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Can’t find what you're looking for? 
 
 
 
 
 Search Box 
 

 
 enter your search here 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Get email updates 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ©2026 Clackamas County