June 2020 CLATSOP COUNTY Policy A-7  Page 1

SUBJECT: REPORTING OF IMPROPER GOVERNMENTAL CONDUCT

DATE:  June 24, 2020

The purpose of this policy is to reinforce an organizational culture that provides:

1. The opportunity for employees, officials, contractors and the public to report
concerns and/or complaints;

2. Fair and timely investigation and appropriate response;

3. Complainants are free from retaliation; and

4. Where appropriate, complainants are provided confidentiality.

Applicability: This policy applies to all Clatsop County employees, contract
employees, applicants for employment, contractors and authorized volunteer
positions.

This policy shall apply to all reports of improper governmental conduct received
through the County’s Hotline or by any other means.

Definitions

"Abuse” means the intentional, wrongful or improper use or destruction of County
resources, or seriously improper practice that does not involve prosecutable fraud.
Abuse can include the excessive or improper use of an employee’s or official’s
position in a manner other than its rightful or legal use. Examples include but are not
limited to failure to report damage to County equipment or property; using one’s
position in a County department to gain an advantage over another County resident
when conducting personal business in another County department; serious abuse of
County time such as significant unauthorized time away from work or significant use
of County time for personal business; abusing the system of travel reimbursement;
receiving favors for awarding contracts to certain vendors.

“Corruption” means employees or officials wrongfully using their influence in a
business transaction to procure some benefit for themselves or another person,
contrary to their duty to their employer or the rights of another. Examples include but
are not limited to accepting kickbacks; engaging in conflicts of interest; bid rigging;
economic extortion; illegal gratuities.

CLATSOP COUNTY ADMINISTRATIVE POLICY A-7

June 2020 CLATSOP COUNTY Policy A-7  Page 2

"Disciplinary action" means any adverse action, including dismissal, demotion,
transfer, reassignment, supervisory reprimand, warning of possible dismissal or
withholding of work, whether or not the action affects or will affect employee
compensation.

“Financial Statement Fraud” means intentional misstatements, omissions or
disclosures in financial statements designed to deceive financial statement users.
Fraudulent financial reporting often involves management override of controls that
otherwise may appear to be operating effectively. Examples may include overstating
revenues or understating liabilities or expenses. Specific examples include but are
not limited to manipulation, falsification or alteration of accounting records or
supporting documents from which financial statements are prepared;
misrepresentation of or an intentional omission from the financial statements of
events, transactions, or other significant information; intentional misapplication of
accounting principles relating to amounts, classification, manner of presentation or
disclosure.

“Fraud” means a dishonest and deliberate course of action that results in the
obtaining of money, property, or an advantage to which County employees or
officials committing the action would not normally be entitled. Fraud includes the
intentional misleading or deceitful conduct that deprives the County of its resources
or rights. There are three categories of fraud: (1) Financial Statement Fraud, (2)
Misappropriation of Assets, and (3) Corruption. Examples include but are not limited
to falsifying financial records to cover up theft; theft or misuse of County money,
equipment supplies or materials; intentionally misrepresenting the costs of goods or
services provided; falsifying payroll information; use of County equipment or property
for personal gain; submitting false claims for reimbursement; soliciting or accepting a
bribe or a kickback; intentional use of false weights or measures.

"Improper governmental conduct" means conduct or actions of County employees,
officials, contractors, or agents that constitute waste, fraud or abuse.

“Investigating employee or official” means that employee or official who is in a
position of authority, pursuant to this policy, to investigate a complaint or concern of
alleged improper governmental conduct.

“Misappropriation of assets” means the theft of an entity’s assets that causes the
financial statements not to be presented in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles. Misappropriation of assets includes false or misleading
records or documents, possibly created by circumventing controls. Examples include
but are not limited to embezzling funds; theft of assets; causing an entity to pay for
goods and services that have not been received; skimming revenues; payroll fraud.

"Mismanagement" means serious County misconduct having the effect of actually or
potentially undermining the County’s ability to fulfill its public mission.

"Reasonably believes is evidence" means, in addition to other circumstances bearing
on the reasonableness of the belief, that the employee has personal knowledge of
facts tending to establish the violation of law, rule or regulation, or the existence of

June 2020 CLATSOP COUNTY Policy A-7  Page 3

mismanagement, abuse of authority, gross waste of funds, or substantial and
specific danger to public health or safety.

"Receiving employee or official" means, that employee or official who receives a
report, complaint or concern of improper governmental conduct.

"Reckless disregard for its truth or falsity" means a conscious disregard of a
substantial and justifiable risk that the information disclosed is false.

"Reporting Employee" means, an employee who reasonably believes they have
evidence of improper governmental conduct.

"Substantial and specific danger" means a specified risk of serious injury, illness,
peril or loss, to which the exposure of the public is a gross deviation from the
standard of care or competence which a reasonable person would observe in the
same situation.

“Waste” means the needless, careless or extravagant expenditure of County funds,
incurring of unnecessary expenses, or mismanagement of County resources or
property. Waste doesn’t necessarily involve private use or personal gain, but almost
always signifies poor management decisions, practices or controls. Examples
include but are not limited to purchase of unneeded supplies or equipment; purchase
of goods at inflated prices; failure to reuse or recycle major resources or reduce
waste generation.

I. POLICY

A guiding principle for Clatsop County is for all employees to commit themselves
to the highest standards of ethical conduct and to accept full accountability for
their actions. In keeping with this guiding principle, Clatsop County encourages
its employees, officials, contractors and members of the public to report any
known or suspected improper governmental conduct to a responsible County
representative.

1. Reporting Improper Governmental Conduct

1.1 Any County employee, official, contractor or member of the public who
discloses information that they reasonably believe is evidence of
improper governmental conduct shall not be retaliated against and, if a
County employee, shall not be subjected to or threatened with
disciplinary action for the disclosure.

1.2 A reporting employee, official, contractor or member of the public may
disclose any allegation, concern, or complaint of improper
governmental conduct (a) by utilizing the County’s Hotline; or (b)
reporting an allegation of improper governmental conduct that may
also be a violation of the State Code of Ethics (ORS Chapter 244) to
the Oregon Government Ethics Commission.

June 2020 CLATSOP COUNTY Policy A-7  Page 4

1.3 Any official, contractor or member of the public who reasonably
believes that he or she has evidence of improper governmental
conduct may report it to the Clatsop County Human Resources
Director. All reports of improper governmental conduct received from
officials, contractors, or members of the public shall be processed and
investigated in accordance with the provisions of Section 2 herein.

1.4 An employee who reasonably believes he or she has evidence of
improper governmental conduct shall report it in the following manner:

1.4.1. First to the employee's supervisor. Where the reporting
employee reasonably believes that the improper
governmental conduct involves the supervisor or there may
not be a fair and impartial investigation or there could be
retaliation for reporting, the reporting employee shall report
the alleged improper governmental conduct directly to his
or her department director; if the reporting employee
reasonably believes the alleged improper governmental
conduct should not be reported to his or her department
director for any of the reasons set forth above, the
reporting employee shall report the conduct to the County
Manager; and if the reporting employee reasonably
believes the improper governmental conduct should not be
reported to the County Manager for any of the reasons set
forth above, the reporting employee shall report the
conduct to the Chair of the Board of County
Commissioners.

1.4.2.  Where the reporting employee reasonably believes there is
an imminent likelihood of substantial and specific danger if
action is not taken immediately, the reporting employee
may report the alleged improper governmental conduct
directly to that County employee or official having authority
over the matter and not personally involved in the alleged
improper governmental conduct.

1.4.3.  Where the alleged improper governmental conduct is
reasonably believed to have been committed by a County
official appointed by the Board of Commissioners, the
reporting employee shall report the conduct to the Chair of
the Board of County Commissioners.

1.4.4.  Where the alleged improper governmental conduct is
reasonably believed to have been committed by an elected
County official, the reporting employee shall report the
conduct to the Chair of the Board of County
Commissioners or a non-culpable Board member.

June 2020 CLATSOP COUNTY Policy A-7  Page 5

1.4.5.  Where the reporting employee reasonably believes the
County Commission has culpability in the alleged improper
governmental conduct, the reporting employee may report
the conduct to the Hotline or State Ethics Commission.

2. Investigation

2.1 The County employee or official receiving the report of improper
governmental conduct shall be responsible for reporting the matter to
the Human Resources Director. The HR Director shall create a log in
the County’s Hotline documenting the date, time, and subject matter of
any report of improper conduct that is received. The HR Director, with
input from the County Manager, Assistant County Manager and County
Counsel shall be responsible for determining the manner in which the
allegations of improper governmental conduct will be investigated.
Except as otherwise required pursuant to sections 2.1.2 and 2.1.3, the
investigation shall remain confidential until such time as the written
report required under subsection 2.4 is completed.

2.1.1.  The HR Director may elect to investigate the allegations by
him or herself; assign the investigation to a subordinate
employee; request that the investigation be conducted by
the receiving employee's supervisor or department
director; request the investigation be conducted by another
office, agency, or department in the County; or, as
provided in section 2.1.5, below, utilize the services of an
outside agency.

2.1.2.  When an investigating employee or official determines
during an investigation that fraud or other criminal activity
may be occurring or may have occurred, the investigating
employee or official shall notify the Human Resources
Director. The Human Resources Director shall notify the
appropriate law enforcement agency of the potential fraud
or other criminal activity.

2.1.3. When an investigating employee or official determines
during an investigation that a violation of any provision of
ORS chapter 244 may be occurring or may have occurred,
the investigating employee or official shall notify the
Human Resources Director. The Human Resources
Director shall notify Oregon Government Ethics
Commission of the potential violation.

2.1.4.  Upon providing notice pursuant to sections 2.1.2 or 2.1.3
herein, the investigating employee or official may elect to
suspend the investigation, pending completion of the
referral agency’s review of the matter.

June 2020 CLATSOP COUNTY Policy A-7  Page 6

2.1.5.  If the HR Director reasonably believes that an investigation
of a non-criminal matter cannot be conducted in an
impartial, fair or complete manner by him/herself or any
office, employee or official in the County, upon approval of
the County Manager, County Counsel or County Board
Chair, the matter may be referred to an outside public
agency willing to accept responsibility for the investigation
(such as another county's Administrative Office or Office of
County Counsel).

2.2  Any investigation conducted pursuant to this policy shall be done
in a timely, impartial, and fair manner. An employee who is the
subject of an investigation of improper governmental conduct (and
therefore may be subject to discipline) may have certain rights
afforded pursuant to County Personnel Rules, a collective
bargaining agreement and/or state or federal law.

2.3 The investigating employee or official shall confer with the Office
of County Counsel pertaining to such rights. The investigation
shall be done in a manner that will not result in any unreasonable
embarrassment to the subject(s) of the investigation or any
witnesses. All County employees and officials shall cooperate in
any investigation.

2.4 The investigating employee or official, upon conclusion of the
investigation, shall prepare a written report setting forth the
allegations and findings. The investigating employee or official
shall present his or her report to the Human Resources Director
and the non-culpable County department head having authority
over the affairs being investigated; or, in the event the allegations
involve a department head, the report shall be presented to the
County Manager; or, in the event the allegations involve the
County Manager, the report shall be presented to the Chair of the
County Board of County Commissioners. A copy of any written
report finding that that employees, officials, or contractors of the
County have been involved in activities that constitute waste,
fraud or abuse shall be provided to non- culpable members of the
Board of County Commissioners.

3. Response to Findings of Improper Governmental Conduct

3.1 The non-culpable County authority receiving the investigation
findings shall take necessary and appropriate action. Such action
may include, but is not limited to, initiating the implementation of
discipline, modifying department procedures, and/or presenting
the report to the appropriate County employee or official.

3.2 Should an investigation find that improper governmental conduct
has occurred, the reporting employee, upon request, shall be

June 2020 CLATSOP COUNTY Policy A-7  Page 7

provided with a copy of the written report, except that any
personnel action(s) taken as a result of the investigation may be
kept confidential. Any information provided to the reporting
employee, that may be considered confidential, shall not be
publicly disclosed by the employee.

3.3 Upon completion of the investigation, the written report shall be
subject to disclosure as a public record under ORS 192.410 to
192.505 unless an exemption from disclosure set forth in a
provision state or federal law applies to the records, except that
the identity of the reporting individual or employee shall remain
confidential.

4. Responsibility of Reporting Employee/Protection Against
Retaliation/Confidentiality

4.1 County officials and employees are prohibited from retaliating,
including the imposition of disciplinary action, against a member
of the public or any Clatsop County employee because he or she
has, in good faith, reported improper governmental conduct.
However, employees may be subjected to discipline if the
information disclosed by the employee is known by the employee
to be false, if the employee discloses the information with
reckless disregard for its truth or falsity, or if the information
disclosed relates to the employee's own violations,
mismanagement, gross waste of funds, abuse of authority or
endangerment of the public health or safety.

4.2 An employee who believes he or she has been retaliated against
for reporting improper governmental conduct should advise their
supervisor, the Human Resources Director or County Manager.
The County official receiving a report of retaliation shall take
appropriate action to investigate and address complaints of
retaliation. A County employee who has been found to have
retaliated against an employee for reporting, in good faith,
improper governmental conduct shall be subject to discipline.

4.3 Notwithstanding the above, any employee who believes he/she
has been retaliated against for the reporting of improper
government conduct may bring a civil action as provided by ORS
659A.215.

4.4  The names of employees or other individuals reporting
allegations of improper governmental conduct shall be kept
confidential unless waived by the subject employee or reporting
individual. The County employee receiving the report shall take
reasonable steps to maintain confidentiality of the reporting
employee. Unless, otherwise required by law

June 2020 CLATSOP COUNTY Policy A-7  Page 8

4.4.1. The identity of the reporting employee or other reporting
individual described in this policy, shall not be disclosed,
during the investigation, without the written consent of the
reporting employee; and

4.4.2.  No supervisory or management employee of the County
shall reveal to an employee accused of improper
governmental conduct the identity of the reporting
employee or other reporting individual.

5. Whistleblower Protection (ORS 659A.200 and 659A.203)

5.1.  No employee of Clatsop County shall be prohibited from
discussing, in response to an official request, either specifically or
generally with any member of the Legislative Assembly, legislative
committee staff acting under direction of a member of the
Legislative Assembly, any member of the elected governing body
of a political subdivision in the state or the activities of:

5.1.1.  The state or any agency or political subdivision in the state;
or

5.1.2. Any person authorized to act on behalf of the state or any
agency or political subdivision in the state.

 5.2.  No employee of Clatsop County shall be disciplined or threatened
with discipline for disclosing any information that the employee
reasonably believes is evidence of:

5.2.1.  A violation of any federal or state law, rule or regulation by
the state, agency or political subdivision;

5.2.2.  Mismanagement, gross waste of funds or abuse of
authority or substantial and specific danger to public health
and safety resulting from action of the state, agency or
political subdivision; or

5.2.3.  Subject to ORS 659A.212(2), the fact that a person
receiving services, benefits or assistance from the State or
agency or subdivision, is subject to a felony or
misdemeanor warrant for arrest issued by the state of
Oregon, any other state, the federal government, or any
territory, commonwealth governmental instrumentality of
the United States.

 5.3.  No employee of Clatsop County shall be required to give notice
prior to making any disclosure under Sections 5.1 and 5.2.

June 2020 CLATSOP COUNTY Policy A-7  Page 9

 5.4.  No employee of Clatsop County shall be discouraged, restrained,
dissuaded, coerced, prevented or otherwise interfered with when
making disclosures or engaging in discussions of matters
protected under Sections 5.1 and 5.2.

 5.5.  An employee’s good faith and objectively reasonable belief of a
violation of federal, state or local law, rule or regulation by the
employer shall be an affirmative defense to a civil or criminal
charge related to the disclosure by the employee of lawfully
accessed information related to the violation, including information
that is exempt from disclosure as provided in ORS 192.501 to
192.505 or by Clatsop County policy, if the information is provided
to:

5.5.1.  A state or federal regulatory agency;

5.5.2.  A law enforcement agency;

5.5.3.  A manager employed by the County;

5.5.4.  An attorney licensed to practice law in the state of Oregon
if a confidential communication is made in connection with
the alleged violation described in this Section 5.5 and in
furtherance of the rendition of legal services to the
employee that are subject to ORS 40.225.

 5.6.  An employee may not assert the affirmative defense described in
Section 5.5 if the information:

5.6.1.  Is disclosed or re-disclosed by the employee or at the
employee’s direction to a party other than the parties listed
in Section 5.5;

5.6.2.  Is stated in a commercial exclusive negotiating agreement
with Clatsop County, provided that the agreement is not
related to the employee’s employment with Clatsop
County; or

5.6.3.  Is stated in a commercial nondisclosure agreement with
Clatsop County, provided that the agreement is not related
to the employee’s employment with Clatsop County.

 5.7.  The affirmative defense described in Section 5.5 is available to an
employee who discloses information related to an alleged violation
by a coworker or supervisor described in Section 5.5 if the
disclosure relates to the course and scope of employment of the
coworker or supervisor.

June 2020 CLATSOP COUNTY Policy A-7  Page 10

 5.8.  The affirmative defense described in Section 5.5 may not be
asserted by an employee who is an attorney or by an employee
who is not an attorney but who is employed, retained, supervised
or directed by an attorney if the information disclosed pursuant to
Section 5.5 is related to the representation of a client.

 5.9.  Disclosure made under Section 5.2, 5.3, and 5.5 herein are
subject to the rules of professional conduct established pursuant
to ORS 9.490.

 5.10.  Subject to the rules of professional conduct established pursuant
to ORS 9.490, a public employee who is an attorney may report to
the Attorney General the employee’s knowledge of a violation of
federal, state or local law, rule or regulation by Clatsop County.

 5.11.  Disclosure of information pursuant to Section 5.5 does not waive
the attorney-client privilege or affect the applicability of any
exemption from disclosure of a public record under ORS 192.501
to 192.505.

 5.12.  Notwithstanding Section 5.5, information protected from disclosure
under federal law, including but not limited to the federal Health
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (P.L. 104-
191), may be disclosed only in accordance with federal law.

6. Other Opportunities for Reporting.

The policies specified herein are for the purpose of reporting allegations of
improper governmental conduct. These policies are not intended to replace other
opportunities for employees to bring complaints or grievances pertaining to their
employment. Specifically, County employees maintain their rights pursuant to
personnel rules (Article 5) and/or a collective bargaining agreement to appeal
imposition of discipline; their right pursuant to personnel rules to appeal County
policies or actions (Article 10); and any rights they/may have pursuant to federal
and state law to present civil complaints.

7. Exceptions.

Exceptions may only be granted by the Clatsop County Board of Commissioners
unless such authority has been delegated to the County Manager.

8. Implementation:

Elected officials and department directors are expected to be knowledgeable of,
and shall be responsible for, implementing this policy within their respective
departments. Observance of this policy is mandatory for all County employees
and violation may result in disciplinary action (up to and including termination).

June 2020 CLATSOP COUNTY Policy A-7  Page 11

Any sustained violations of this policy resulting from an investigation conducted
pursuant to Section 2 of this policy or from an Administrative Review or
Administrative Investigation shall be logged into the County’s EthicsPoint
computer system and reported to non- culpable members of the Board of County
Commissioners.

9. Periodic Review:

This policy shall be reviewed by the County Manager’s Office at least every three
years, or more often if needed, and updated as necessary.