09/21/2012  CLATSOP COUNTY Policy A20  Page 1
ADMINISTRATIVE POLICY & PROCEDURE
SUBJECT:  Tobacco-Free Campus

Date: November 14, 2003 Revised:  September 21, 2012

I. PURPOSE

Clatsop County, mindful of its public leadership role and as a provider of health
care and promoter of well-being of the community, is committed to providing a
tobacco-free work environment to protect the health, welfare and comfort of
County employees and visitors to buildings and grounds of County campuses.

II. POLICY

A.  Use of  tobacco products is prohibited on all County campuses owned
or leased by Clatsop County and on any property defined as a County
Campus.

1. Tobacco Product means cigarettes, cigars, pipes and other
smoking products, dip, chew, snuff, snus and any other smokeless
tobacco product, and nicotine delivery devises such as electronic
cigarettes, excluding FDA-approved nicotine replacement therapy
products for the purpose of tobacco cessation.

2. County Campus as defined in County Code Chapter 8.6 (Ordinance
2012-07) means all land, buildings and parking lots at the County
Service Building, 800 and 820 Exchange Street, Astoria, Oregon;
the Boyington Building, 857 Commercial St., Astoria, Oregon; and
the Public Works Building and shop, 1100 and 1196 Olney Avenue,
Astoria, Oregon

B. Use of tobacco products is prohibited on the county campus and within
50 feet of any county facility.

1. Tobacco Product means cigarettes, cigars, pipes and other
smoking products, dip, chew, snuff, snus and any other smokeless
tobacco product, and nicotine delivery devises such as electronic
cigarettes, excluding FDA-approved nicotine replacement therapy
products for the purpose of tobacco cessation.

CLATSOP COUNTY ADMINISTRATIVE POLICY AND PROCEDURE NO. A-20
09/21/2012  CLATSOP COUNTY Policy A20  Page 2
ADMINISTRATIVE POLICY & PROCEDURE
2. County facility means any enclosed space that is operated, owned,
leased or rented by Clatsop County, as in Section VI of this policy.
It includes buildings, portions of buildings, equipment, machinery
and motor vehicles, owned, rented or leased by the County.

C.  Signage will be visible upon entering any county property stating that
tobacco use is prohibited.

D.  Employees who choose to use tobacco must do so on their regularly
scheduled breaks or meal periods.

III. PROCEDURES AND GUIDELINES

Employees are expected to exercise common courtesy and to respect the needs
and sensitivities of coworkers and visitors with regard to our tobacco policy.

Tobacco users have an obligation to keep tobacco-use areas litter-free.

Every employee benefits from a tobacco-free workplace environment.  The
success of this policy depends upon the thoughtfulness, consideration and
cooperation of tobacco users and non-tobacco users. The enforcement of this
policy is a responsibility of all Clatsop County employees.

IV. VIOLATIONS
A. Violations of this policy by employees will be handled in the same
manner as other job performance issues.

B. Any County employee who observes an employee acting in violation of
this policy shall notify his/her supervisor or department head, who in
turn shall notify the violator’s supervisor or department head of the
violation.

i. Upon notification or personal observation of a violation of this
policy by a County employee, the supervisor or department
head of the employee will address the issue with that employee
following county policies.

C. Violations of this policy by persons who are not County employees
shall be reported to a department head or the Human Resources
Director.

i. The department head or the Human Resources Director is
responsible for informing the violator of this policy.

09/21/2012  CLATSOP COUNTY Policy A20  Page 3
ADMINISTRATIVE POLICY & PROCEDURE
D. County employees may approach and inform anyone who violates this
policy.

E.  Any other complaints regarding tobacco-use on County facilities
should be directed to the appropriate Department Head or Supervisor.

V. CESSATION SUPPORT

A. The County shall provide tobacco cessation resource
information to employees who request it.

B.  Employees and visitors may contact the Health & Human
Services Department for information regarding the effects of
tobacco use; self-help materials and resources for cessation.
Where possible, these materials may be available in display
areas.

C.  Employees may contact Human Resources regarding the
availability of tobacco- related cessation support programs.

VI.  * DEFINITION OF FACILITY LOCATIONS:

• Public Works administration offices and Astoria shop, 1100 Olney Avenue,
Astoria.

• County Public Services Buildings 800 and 820, located at 800 and 820
Exchange Streets, Astoria.

• Community Corrections,  988 Commercial Street, Astoria.

• County Courthouse, 749 Commercial Street, Astoria.

• Sheriff’s Office,  355 Seventh Street, Astoria.

• County Jail, 636 Duane Street, Astoria.

• Marine Patrol boat slip

• Columbia River sheriff’s substation and Public Works Svensen Shop,
92435 Svensen Market Road.

• Nehalem Valley sheriff’s substation and Public Works Jewell Shop, 79532
Oregon Highway 202, Jewell.