Clatsop County Land and Water I-1 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS

Section 1.0100. Title
This Ordinance shall be known as the Clatsop County Land and Water Development
and Use Code (LAWDUC).

SECTION 1.0200. PURPOSE
The purpose of this Ordinance is to coordinate County regulations governing the
development and use of land and water, and to implement the objectives, goals and
policies set forth in the Clatsop County Comprehensive Plan.

SECTION 1.0300. SCOPE OF REGULATIONS
1) This document contains standards applicable to development.
2) If there is a conflict between a provision of this Development Code and a
condition of approval required for a specific project approved under this
Development Ordinance, the Development Code shall apply. [ORD 25-02]
3) The standards established by this initial enactment shall be revised and extended
as specified in the following section of and by decisions authorized by the
Development Code and other ordinances of the County.
4) The standards contained within this document may be revised or deleted and
new standards may be added when such action will improve use of the Land and
Water Development and Use Code. [ORD 25-02]

SECTION 1.0400. APPLICATION
This Code shall apply to all land or water within Clatsop County.

Clatsop County Land and Water I-2 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
SECTION 1.0500. DEFINITIONS
As used in this Ordinance, the following words and phrases shall have the following
meanings:

ABANDONMENT OF SURFACE MINING -- A cessation of surface mining, not set forth
in an operator's plan of operation or by any other sufficient written notice, extending for
more than six
(6) consecutive months or when, by reason of examination of the premises or by any
other means, it becomes the opinion of the Community Development Director that the
operation has in fact been abandoned by the operator. The operator may, within thirty
(30) days of receipt of written notification from the Community Development Director of
its intent to declare the operation abandoned, submit evidence to the Community
Development Director's satisfaction that the operation is in fact not abandoned.

ABSENTEE OWNER -- Any real property owner(s) who customarily resides some place
other than the property in question. [ORD 25-02]

ABUTMENT-- A substructure composed of stone, concrete, brick or timber supporting
the end of a single span bridge or the ends of a multi-span superstructure and, in
general, retaining or supporting the approach embankment placed in contact there-with.

ABUTTING – Two or more lots joined by a common boundary line or point. For the
purposes of this definition, lots that are separated by a road, street, alley, or public way
are not considered abutting. [ORD 25-02]

ACCEPTED FARMING PRACTICES -- A mode of operation that is common to farms of
a similar nature, necessary for the operation of such farms to obtain a profit in money,
and customarily utilized in conjunction with farm use. As applied to composting
operations on high-value farmland, “accepted farming practice” includes composting
operations that either 1) compost only materials produced on the subject tract, or 2)
compost materials brought from off-site and processed alone or in conjunction with
materials generated on the subject tract, and use all on-site generated compost for on-
farm production in conjunction with, and auxiliary to, the farm use on the subject tract.
[Ord. 18-02]

ACCESS – The place, way or means by which pedestrians, bicycles, and vehicles enter
or leave property. [ORD 25-02]

ACCESSORY STRUCTURE, DETACHED - A non-habitable detached structure that is
used for storage of equipment and materials associated with the primary use and which
is located on the same lot, parcel or tract with the primary use. Accessory structure
includes, but is not limited to: [Ord. 18-02] [ORD 25-02]

1) BARN -- A structure used for the storage of farm products, feed, and for housing
farm animals and farm equipment. [ORD 25-02]

Clatsop County Land and Water I-3 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
2) GARAGE, PRIVATE -- A carport, deck, or building, or a portion of a carport,
deck, or building used for the parking and storage of vehicles of the owner or
tenant of a property. [ORD 25-02]
3) PERSONAL STORAGE STRUCTURE -- A structure for the storage of the
owner’s or tenant’s personal possessions which is located on the same property
as the owner’s or tenant’s residence. [ORD 25-02]
4) SHED, FARM STORAGE -- A structure to store or repair a property owner's
machinery and heavy equipment used in conjunction with agricultural/forestry
practices on the same property on which the structure is located or on adjacent
property under the same ownership. [ORD 25-02]

ACCESSORY STRUCTURE,
ATTACHED -- An accessory
building which is attached to the
main building through common wall
construction or by the roof over a
breezeway connecting the
accessory building and the main
building. [ORD 25-02]

ACCESSORY TO -- With respect to
forest management dwellings,
“accessory to” means that forest
management is the primary use of
the property. [ORD 25-02]

ACCESSORY USE -- A secondary
use that is in addition to and
supports the principal use located on the same lot, tract or parcel. [ORD 25-02]

ACCESSWAY -- An unobstructed right-of-way containing a drive or roadway which
provides vehicular access within a mobile home park and connects to a public street.
[ORD 25-02]

ACCRETION -- The build-up of land along a beach or shore by the deposition of
waterborne or airborne sand, sediment, or other material.

ACTIVITY – See Development.

ADJUSTED PROPERTY LINE -- See property line adjustment.

ADMINISTRATIVE – A discretionary action or permit decision made without a public
hearing, but requiring public notification and an opportunity for appeal. [ORD. 26-05]

AFFORDABLE HOUSING – “Affordable housing” means housing that is affordable to
households with incomes equal to or less than 80 percent of the median family income

Clatsop County Land and Water I-4 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
for the county. To be considered “affordable” housing costs should not exceed 30% of
the total gross household income. [ORD. 23-07] [ORD 25-02] [ORD. 26-05]

AGITATION DREDGING -- Dredging by displacement of sediments out of a shoaled
area using currents generated by a ship's propeller or large pump. Also referred to as
propwash dredging and sandwave skimming, depending on the gear and techniques
used.

AGRICULTURAL EXEMPT BUILDING – Any structure that is considered to be an
“agricultural building” as defined in ORS 455.315 and is on a lot or parcel that is:
(1) Enrolled in a farm or forest deferral program with the County Assessor; or
(2) Not enrolled in a farm or forest deferral program with the County Assessor and
for which the owner submits a signed statement along with documentation such
as a business plan, profit/loss statements, tax returns or advertising, to
demonstrate the lot or parcel(s) are in Farm Use as defined in LAWDUC 1.0500.
[Ord. 18-02]

AGRICULTURAL LAND --
1) (A) Lands classified by the U.S. Soil Conservation Service (SCS) or Natural
Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) as predominantly Class I-IV
soils;
(B) Land in other soil classes that is suitable for farm use as defined in ORS
215.203(2)(a), taking into consideration soil fertility; suitability for grazing;
climatic conditions; existing and future availability of water for farm
irrigation purposes; existing land use patterns; technological and energy
inputs required; and accepted farming practices; and
(C) Land that is necessary to permit farm practices to be undertaken on
adjacent or nearby agricultural lands.
2) Land in capability classes other than I-IV that is adjacent to or intermingled with
lands in capability classes I-IV within a farm unit, shall be inventoried as
agricultural lands even though this land may not be cropped or grazed;
3) “Agricultural Land” does not include land within acknowledged urban growth
boundaries or land within acknowledged exception areas for Goal 3 or 4.

AGRI-TOURISM -- A common, farm-dependent activity that is incidental and
subordinate to a working farm and that promotes successful agriculture and generates
supplemental income for the owner. Such uses may include hay rides, corn mazes and
other similar uses that are directly related to on-site agriculture. Any assembly of
persons shall be for the purpose of taking part in agriculturally-based activities such as
animal or crop care, tasting farm products or learning about farm or ranch operations.
Agri-tourism may include farm-to-plate meals. Except for small, farm-themed parties,
Agri-tourism does not include weddings, celebratory gatherings, parties or regularly
occurring similar uses.   [Ord. 18-02]

AIRPORT -- Any land area, runway or other facility designed, used or intended to be
used either publicly or by any person or persons for the landing and taking off of aircraft,

Clatsop County Land and Water I-5 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
including all necessary taxiways, aircraft storage and tie-down areas, hangars, and
other necessary buildings and open spaces.

ALL TERRAIN VEHICLE (ATV) -- A vehicle defined in ORS 801.190-801.194.

ALL TERRAIN VEHICLE (ATV) RECREATION AREA -- An area or tract of land where
ATVs have been approved by Clatsop County for use.

ALLEY -- A public right-of-way of 25 feet or less in width that provides a secondary
means of access to public or private property. [ORD 25-02]

ALTERATION, STRUCTURAL -- Any change or repair to the supporting members of a
building or structure, including bearing walls, foundations, columns, beams, or girders.
Any change in the external dimensions of the building shall be considered a structural
alteration. [ORD 25-02]

ANIMAL HOSPITAL/VETERINARY CLINIC – A building or facility that specializes in the
medical care and treatment of animals, including overnight boarding. [ORD. 23-07]

APPEAL -- A request for review of a decision made by the Community Development
Director, Hearings Officer, Planning Commission or the Board of Clatsop County
Commissioners. [ORD 25-02]

APPLICANT -- Any person who makes an application to the Clatsop County Community
Development Department. [ORD 25-02]

AQUACULTURE -- The raising, feeding, planting and harvesting of fish, shellfish,
aquatic plants or other aquatic organisms, including associated facilities necessary to
engage in the use.

AQUATIC AREAS -- Aquatic areas include the tidal waters, including subtidal areas and
wetlands of the estuaries and non-tidal sloughs, streams, and wetlands within the
shorelands area boundary. The lands underlying the waters are also included. The
upper limit of aquatic areas is the upper limit of aquatic vegetation or, where such a line
cannot be accurately determined, Mean Higher High Water (MHHW) in tidal areas or
Ordinary High Water (OHW) in non-tidal areas.

ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITE -- A geographic area in Clatsop County, including but not
limited to submerged and submersible lands, but not the bed of the sea within the
state’s jurisdiction, that contains archaeological objects as defined in ORS
358.905(1)(a) and the contextual associations of the objects with:
1) Each other; or
2) Biotic or geological remains or deposits. Examples of archaeological sites
include, but are not limited to shipwrecks, lithic quarries, house pit villages,
camps, burials, lithic scatters, homesteads and townsites. [ORD 25-02]

Clatsop County Land and Water I-6 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
AREA ZONED FOR RURAL RESIDENTIAL USE – Land that is not located inside an
urban growth boundary as defined in ORS 195.060 and that is subject to an
acknowledged exception to a statewide land use planning goal relating to farmland or
forestland; and zoned to allow residential use as a primary use. [ORD. 23-03]

AUTO, BOAT, TRAILER, RV SALES – Includes the sale or leasing of new or used cars,
boats, trailers, and/or recreational vehicles (RVs); however, service, vehicle
accessories, and parts sales may also be available. Some dealerships also include
leasing option and a mix of vehicle types. [ORD. 23-07]

AUTO WRECKING YARD -- Any property where two or more motor vehicles not in
running condition, or the parts thereof, are stored in the open and are not being restored
to operation; or any land, building or structure used for the wrecking or storing of such
motor vehicles or the parts thereof.

AUTOMOBILE RACETRACK – A facility that contains a racetrack, spectator seating,
and parking, and may include a restaurant or refreshment area. [ORD. 23-07]

AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION -- Any premises used for supplying gasoline, oil,
minor accessories and services, excluding body and fender repair, for automobiles at
retail direct to the customer.

AUTOMOBILE AND OTHER VEHICLE SALES AREA -- An open area, other than a
street, used for the display, sale or rental of new or used motor vehicles or trailers and
where no repair work is done except minor incidental repair of motor vehicles or trailers
to be displayed, sold or rented on the premises.

AUXILIARY -- With respect to uses in the F-80 and AF zones, auxiliary means a use or
alteration of a structure or land which provides help or is directly associated with the
conduct of a particular forest practice. An auxiliary structure is located on site,
temporary in nature, and is not designed to remain for the forest's entire growth cycle
from planting to harvesting. An auxiliary use is removed when a particular forest
practice has concluded.

AVULSION -- A tearing away or separation by the force of water. Land which is
separated from uplands or adjacent properties by the action of a stream or river cutting
through the land to form a new stream bed.

AWNING -- Any stationary structure other than a window awning for the purpose of
providing shelter from the sun and rain, and having a roof with supports and not more
than one wall or storage cabinet substitution for a wall. [ORD 25-02]

BANKLINE ALTERATION -- Realignment of a stream bank or the entire stream, either
within or without its normal highwater boundaries.

BASEMENT -- A portion of a building which has less than half of its height, measured

Clatsop County Land and Water I-7 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
from finished floor to finished
ceiling, above the average finished
grade of the adjoining ground. A
basement is not considered a story
unless the ceiling is 6 feet or more
above the grade. [ORD 25-02]

BEACH -- Gently sloping areas of
loose material (e.g., sand, gravel
and cobbles) that extend landward
from the low-water line (extreme
low tide) to a point where there is a
definite change in the material type
or landform, or to the line of year-
round established vegetation.

BEACH ACCESS, PUBLIC OR
PRIVATE -- Trails or roads which
provide access for the public to the
beach.

BEACH NOURISHMENT --
Placement of sand material on
actively eroding beach sites
identified in the Dredged Material Management Plan to maintain the historic beach
profile.
Beach nourishment does not include creation of new land area or beaches and must
provide for the protection of estuarine resources (including habitat, nutrient, fish, wildlife,
and aesthetic resources). Dredged material may be used for beach nourishment.

BED AND BREAKFAST FACILITY -- The use of a single-unit dwelling in which lodging
and a morning meal for guests only are offered for compensation, having no more than
5 sleeping rooms for this purpose. A bed and breakfast facility must be within the
residence of the operator and be compliant with the requirements of ORS 624.010 to
624.130. [ORD 18-02] [ORD 25-02] [ORD 25-16]

BENEFICIAL USE -- The using of dredged material for some productive or beneficial
purpose in a manner consistent with applicable laws, not harmful to the environment,
and not in conflict with other uses authorized in this plan, such as fisheries and ports.
“Beneficial use” includes the use of dredged materials to improve or enhance upland
sites; to protect or stabilize beaches or shorelines; to enhance native and natural wildlife
habitat; to enhance or create aquatic habitat; disposal at ocean beaches; or for
construction purposes (for a road foundation, for example).

BIOFUEL – As defined in ORS 315.141, “biofuel” means liquid, gaseous or solid fuels,
derived from biomass, that have been converted into a processed fuel ready for use as

Clatsop County Land and Water I-8 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
energy by a biofuel producer’s customers or for direct biomass energy use at the biofuel
producer’s site. [ORD. 23-02]

BLOCK -- A tract of land bounded by a street or by a combination of streets and public
parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, drainageways, or unsubdivided land. [ORD
25-02]

BOARD -- The Board of County Commissioners, Clatsop County, Oregon.

BOARDING HOUSE -- A building or portion thereof, other than a motel, bed and
breakfast facility, restaurant or hotel, where meals or lodging or both are provided for
compensation for three or more persons. [ORD. 24-14] [ORD 25-02]

BOAT HOUSE -- A floating or pile-supported structure used for the protection and
storage of a boat or boats.

BOAT RAMP OR LAUNCH -- An improved sloped surface extending from a shoreland
area into an aquatic area suitable for removing a boat from the water and launching a
boat into the water from a trailer.

BREAKWATER -- A protective navigational structure built of rock, concrete, steel, piling
or constructed to float for the purpose of protecting the shore or facility behind the
structure.

BRIDGE CROSSING -- The portion of a bridge spanning a waterway not including
supporting structures or fill located in the water or adjacent wetlands.

BRIDGE CROSSING SUPPORT STRUCTURES -- Piers, piling, abutments, and similar
structures necessary to support a bridge span but not including fill for causeways or
approaches.

BUILDING -- A structure built or placed for the support, shelter, or enclosure of persons,
animals, chattels, or property of any kind.

BUILDING LINE -- A line on the Comprehensive Plan, Zoning Map, or plat, parallel to
the street right-of-way, indicating the limit beyond which buildings or structures may not
be erected, or the minimum distance as prescribed by the provisions of this Ordinance
between the front property line abutting a street and the closest point of the roof line of
any building or structure related thereto.

BUILDING PERMIT-- Written permission by the Clatsop County Building Codes Division
for the construction, repair, alteration of or addition to a structure. [ORD 25-02]

BULKHEAD -- A vertical wall of steel, timber or concrete used for erosion protection or
as a retaining wall.

Clatsop County Land and Water I-9 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
CAMPGROUND -- An area devoted to overnight temporary use for vacation,
recreational or emergency purposes, but not for residential purposes. [Ord. 18-02]

CAMPGROUND, PRIMITIVE -- Any area or tract of land where two or more campsites
are located for both tent or trailer camping purposes or tent camping only. The
campground is characterized by no sewage disposal hookups, no utilities, running water
and pit toilets are provided nearby, and it may or may not include a flush toilet.

CAMPSITE -- A space provided in a campground, primitive campground or recreational
vehicle (RV) park which usually contains a table, stove, parking place and space for a
tent to accommodate a one-family group.

CARETAKER RESIDENCE -- A single dwelling unit which is used exclusively by the
owner, manager or operator of a principal permitted use and which is located on the
same parcel as the principal use. [ORD 25-02]

CARPORT -- A covered shelter for a motorized vehicle, boat or recreational vehicle,
which is open on two or more sides. [ORD 25-02]

CEMETERY -- Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the dead and
dedicated for cemetery purposes, including columbariums, mausoleums and
mortuaries, when operated in conjunction with and within the boundary of such
cemetery.

CENTER OF THE SUBJECT TRACT – The mathematical centroid of the tract. [ORD
23-02]

CHANNELIZATION -- Diversion of flow from shallow areas into the main channel by
dredging, pile dikes or other means to the degree that circulation is markedly decreased
and sedimentation increased in the shallow areas.

CHILD CARE CENTER – Means a child care facility, other than a family child care
home, that is:
1) Certified under ORS 329A.255; or [ORD. 23-04]
2) Preschool recorded program or school-age recorded program recorded under
ORS 329A.255; or
3) Parent cooperative, as defined in ORS 329A.250. [ORD 25-16]

CLEAR-VISION AREAS -- A triangular shaped portion of land established at street
intersections in which nothing is erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow in such a
manner as to limit or obstruct the sight distance of motorists entering or leaving the
intersection. (See 3.9530)

CLINIC – Medical offices with outpatient treatment and no overnight stays. Urgent care
is another term commonly used to describe this type of facility. [ORD. 23-07]

Clatsop County Land and Water I-10 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT -- A development technique wherein house sites or
structures are grouped together around accessways or cul-de-sacs, with the remainder
of the tract left in open space or common open space. Clustering can be carried out in
the context of a major or minor partition, subdivision, planned development or through
the replatting of existing lots. [ORD 25-02]

COASTAL SHORELANDS -- Those areas immediately adjacent to the ocean, estuaries,
associated wetland and coastal lakes. The extent of shorelands shall include at least:
1) Areas subject to ocean flooding and lands within 100 feet of the ocean shore or
within 50 feet of an estuary or coastal lake;
2) Adjacent areas of geologic instability where the geologic instability is related or
will impact a coastal water body;
3) Natural or man-made riparian resources, especially vegetation necessary to
stabilize the shoreline and to maintain water quality and temperature necessary
for the maintenance of fish habitat and spawning areas;
4) Areas of significant shoreland and wetland biological habitats whose habitat
quality is primarily derived from or related to the association with coastal water
areas;
5) Areas necessary for water-dependent and water-related uses including areas of
recreational importance which utilize coastal water or riparian resources; areas
appropriate for navigation and port facilities, dredged material disposal and
mitigation sites, and areas having characteristics suitable for aquaculture;
6) Areas of exceptional aesthetic or scenic quality, where the quality is primarily
derived from or related to the association with coastal water areas;
7) Coastal headlands;
8) Dikes and their associated inland toe drains; and
9) Locations of archaeological or historical importance associated with the estuary.

COFFEE KIOSK – Single-tenant coffee and donut restaurants with drive-through
windows. Freshly brewed coffee and a variety of coffee-related accessories are the
primary retail products sold at these sites. They may also sell other  refreshment items,
such as donuts, bagels, muffins cakes, sandwiches, wraps, salads, and other hot and
cold beverages. [ORD. 23-07]

COMMERCIAL DAIRY FARM: A commercial dairy farm is a dairy operation that owns a
sufficient number of producing dairy animals capable of earning the gross annual
income required by this Article/Chapter from the sale of fluid milk. [Ord. 18-02]

COMMERCIAL POWER GENERATING FACILITY -- A facility for the production of
energy and its related or supporting facilities that:
1) Generates energy using means listed in ORS or OAR such as solar power, wind
power, fuel cells, hydroelectric power, thermal power, geothermal power, landfill
gas, digester gas, waste, dedicated energy crops available on a renewable basis
or low-emission, nontoxic biomass based on solid organic fuels from wood, forest
or field residues but not including the production of biofuel as authorized by ORS
215.203(2)(b)(K) in all zones that allow “Farm Use” and 215.283(1)(r) and

Clatsop County Land and Water I-11 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
215.283(2)(a) in the EFU zone;
2) Is intended to provide energy for sale; and
3) Does not include a net metering project established consistent with ORS 757.300
and OAR chapter 860, division 39 or a Feed-in-Tariff project established
consistent with ORS 757.365 and OAR chapter 860, division 84.
[Ord. 18-02]

COMMERCIAL TREE SPECIES -- Trees recognized for commercial production under
rules adopted by the State Board of Forestry pursuant to ORS 527.715. [Ord. 18-02]

COMMON OPEN SPACE -- See Open Space definition.

COMMUNICATION FACILITIES -- Power and communication lines and towers,
antennas and microwave receivers.

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN -- A generalized, coordinated land use map and policy
statement of the governing body of a local government that interrelates all functional
and natural systems and activities relating to the use of lands, including but not limited
to sewer and water systems, transportation systems, educational facilities, recreational
facilities, and natural resources and air and water quality management programs.
“Comprehensive” means all-inclusive, both in terms of geographic area covered and
functional and natural activities and systems occurring in the area covered by the plan.
“General nature” means a summary of policies and proposals in broad categories and
does not necessarily indicate specific locations of any area, activity or use. A plan is
“coordinated” when the needs of all levels of governments, semi-public and private
agencies and citizens of Oregon have been considered and accommodated as much as
possible. “Land” includes water, both surface and subsurface, and the air.

CONDITIONAL USE -- A type of development which requires special consideration prior
to being permitted in a particular zone because of its possible impact on adjacent
developments, land and water resources and the growth and development of the
County. [ORD 25-02]

CONDOMINIUM – A form of ownership where the owner has a deed to a volume of
space and is governed by the provisions of ORS Chapter 100. [ORD 25-02]

CONFINED AQUATIC PLACEMENT – A type of in-water dredge material placement
where new structures are added to retain dredged material within the site, at locations
where material would otherwise be transported by natural riverine processes resulting in
adverse effects such as increased shoaling in the Lower Columbia River Federal
Navigation Channel. The structures are installed first and then dredged material is
placed between the structures where it is protected from erosion. [ORD. 25-05]

CONGREGATE CARE FACILITY – An independent living development that provides
centralized amenities such as dining, housekeeping, communal transportation, and
organized social/recreational activities. Each individual dwelling unit often has a

Clatsop County Land and Water I-12 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
kitchenette, rather than a full kitchen. Limited medical services, such as nursing and
dental may be provided. [ORD. 23-07]

CONTESTED CASE -- A proceeding in which the legal rights, duties, or privileges of
specific parties under general rules or policies provided under ORS 215.010 to 215.422,
or an ordinance, rule of regulation adopted pursuant thereto, are required to be
determined only after a hearing at which specific parties are entitled to appear and be
heard.

CONTIGUOUS – Tax lots or parcels that have a common boundary. Contiguous lots or
parcels include those that are under common ownership and separated by a public
road. [Ord. 18-02]

CONVENIENCE MARKET – These markets sell convenience foods, newspapers,
magazines, and often beer and wine; they do not have gasoline pumps. [ORD.23-07]

CONVENIENCE STORE WITH GAS PUMPS – Gasoline/service stations with
convenience markets where there is significant business related to the sale of
convenience items and the fueling of motor vehicles. Some commonly sold convenience
items include freshly brewed coffee, daily-made donuts, bakery items, hot and cold
beverages, breakfast items, dairy items, fresh fruits, soups, light meals, ready-to-go and
freshly made sandwiches and wraps, and ready-to-go salads. Stores typically have
automated teller machines (ATMs), and public restrooms. [ORD. 23-07]

COOKING FACILITIES – Are defined as stoves, ovens or other equipment designed to
prepare hot meals that utilize a 220-volt outlet or any non-electrical fuel sources.
Cooking facilities do not include a single hot plate, microwave, toaster over, air fryer,
toaster or similar plug-in countertop appliance. [ORD 25-02]

COTTAGE CLUSTER – A grouping of at least four detached dwelling units per acre.
Dwelling units have a building footprint of less than 900 square feet per dwelling unit
that includes a common courtyard with at least 150 square feet per cottage. Units may
be located on a single lot or parcel or on individual lots or parcels. A maximum of eight
cottages shall be permitted per courtyard. For example, 150 square feet of common
courtyard area for eight cottages equals 1,200 square feet of common courtyard area.
[ORD. 24-14]

COTTAGE CLUSTER PROJECT – A development site with one or more cottage
clusters. Each cottage cluster as part of a cottage cluster project must have its own
common courtyard. [ORD. 24-14]

COUNTY -- The County of Clatsop, Oregon.

COUNTY ROAD -- See Road, County.

COURT -- An open occupied space, other than a yard, on the same lot with a building

Clatsop County Land and Water I-13 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
and enclosed on two (2) or more sides by such building.

CUBIC FOOT PER ACRE -- The average annual increase in cubic foot volume of wood
fiber per acre for fully stocked stands at the culmination of mean annual increment as
reported by the USDA Natural Resource Conservation Service (NRCS) soil survey. The
cubic foot per acre value is calculated by dividing the total volume of the stand by its
age, at the point where the stand reaches its maximum annual rate of growth. [Ord. 18-
02]

CUBIC FOOT PER ACRE PER YEAR -- The average annual increase in cubic foot
volume of wood fiber per acre for fully stocked stands at the culmination of mean annual
increment as reported by the USDA Natural Resource Conservation Service (NRCS)
soil survey. [Ord. 18-02]

CULTURAL AREAS – Archaeological sites, landscape features of cultural interest, and
sites where both are present. Also referred to as “cultural resource site”. [ORD 25-02]

CULTURED CHRISTMAS TREES -- Means trees:
1) Grown on lands used exclusively for that purpose, capable of preparation by
intensive cultivation methods such as plowing or turning over the soil;
2) Of a marketable species;
3) Managed to produce trees meeting U.S. No. 2 or better standards for Christmas
trees as specified by the Agriculture Marketing Services of the U.S. Department
of Agriculture; and
4) Evidencing periodic maintenance practices of shearing for Douglas Fir and pine
species, weed and brush control and one or more of the following practices:
Basal pruning, fertilizing, insect and disease control, stump culture, soil
cultivation, irrigation.

DATE OF CREATION AND EXISTENCE – In farm and forest zones, when a lot, parcel
or tract is reconfigured pursuant to applicable law after November 4, 1993, the effect of
which is to qualify a lot, parcel or tract for the siting of a dwelling, the date of the
reconfiguration is the date of creation or existence. Reconfigured means any change in
the boundary of the lot, parcel, or tract.  [Ord. 18-02]

DE NOVO HEARING – A hearing by the reviewing body as if the action had not been
previously heard and as if no decision has been rendered, except that all testimony,
evidence and other material from the record of the previous consideration shall be
included in the record of the review. [ORD 25-02]

DECK -- A flat floored area adjoining a house, greater than 30 inches above finished
grade. Decks may be either covered or uncovered. (see also Patio). [ORD 25-02]

DESTINATION RESORTS -- A destination resort is a self-contained development
providing primarily visitor-oriented accommodations and developed recreation facilities.
[ORD 25-02]

Clatsop County Land and Water I-14 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS

The following uses are not considered destination resorts:
1) Cities or planned communities
2) Recreational vehicle parks
3) Campgrounds
4) Rural subdivision or planned development
5) Amusement parks
6) Schools or academies
7) Hunting, fishing lodges, or cabins
8) Hotels or motels
9) Organization camps, campgrounds or centers

DEVELOPMENT -- Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to: construction, reconstruction, conversion, relocation or
enlargement of any structure; any mining, excavation, landfill or land disturbance, any
use or extension of the use of land.

DIKES -- With regard to flood protection, a structure designed and built to prevent
inundation of a parcel of land by water. With regard to dredged material disposal, a
structure consisting of sediments, rock, or other material designed to contain the
dredged material and allow for settling of solids in a specific area while it is being
deposited and after deposition has occurred. A dike is considered new when placed on
an area which: (1) has never previously been diked, or (2) has previously been diked,
but all or a substantial part of the area is subject to daily inundation and tidal marsh has
been established. Maintenance and repair refer to: (1) existing serviceable dikes
(including those that allow some seasonal inundation), and (2) those that have been
damaged by flooding, erosion, tide gate failure, etc., but where reversion to tidal marsh
has not yet occurred, or where repair work is commenced within 36 months of the
breach regardless if the area has reverted to estuarine habitat.  Dike is synonymous
with levee as defined in CREST’s 2002 Columbia River Estuary Dredged Material
Management Plan.

DIRECTOR -- The Community Development Director, the administrative official of
Clatsop County, or duly authorized representative, designated to administer the
responsibilities of the Department of Community Development. [ORD 25-02]

DISCRETIONARY LAND USE REVIEW – A land use review procedure that relies on
standards or criteria that require interpretation or the exercise of policy or legal
judgment. Discretionary land use reviews are processed under the Type II, III, or IV
review procedures, as defined in Article 2.

DISPOSAL SITE -- Land and facilities used for the disposal, handling or transfer of
resource recovery from solid wastes, including but not limited to dumps, landfills, sludge
lagoons, sludge treatment facilities, disposal sites for septic tank pumping or cesspool
cleaning service, transfer stations, resource recovery facilities, incinerators for solid
waste delivered by the public or by a solid waste collection service, composting plants

Clatsop County Land and Water I-15 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
and land and facilities previously used for solid waste disposal at a land disposal site;
but the term does not include a facility subject to the permit requirements of ORS
468.740 (wastewater disposal); a landfill site which is used by the owner or person in
control of the premises to dispose of soil, rock, concrete, or other similar on
decomposable material, unless the site is used by the public either directly or through a
solid waste collection service; or a site operation by a wrecker issued a certificate under
ORS 822.110.

DISTRIBUTION LINES -- For natural gas - the act of distributing gas from the plant to
the customer. For electric - the act of distributing electric power using low voltage
transmission lines that deliver power to retail customers.

DOCKS -- A pier or secured float or floats for vessel moorage, fishing, or other water
use.

DREDGED MATERIAL -- Sediments, gravels and other solids removed from an aquatic
area.

DREDGED MATERIAL DISPOSAL -- The deposition of dredged material in aquatic
areas or land areas. Methods include land disposal (deposition in specific land areas or
on the tops and landward sides of flood protection dikes) and in-water disposal
(including beach nourishment, flowlane disposal, expanded flowlane/thalweg disposal,
ocean disposal, estuarine open-water disposal, and agitation dredging). [ORD. 24-18]

DREDGING -- The extraction or displacement of aquatic sediment or other material for
the
purpose of maintaining or deepening a navigation channel, mooring basin or other
navigational areas, obtaining fill material or mining and mineral extraction.

DRIFT RIGHT -- A specific area or section of river bottom that has been cleared of
snags and sunken debris and is shared and actively managed by a group of fisherman
as their fishing grounds.

DRIVEWAY -- An improved travel surface, on privately owned property and maintained
by private funds for the exclusive use of private parties, that is intended to provide
access from a federal, state, county, public, or private road to no more than two lots,
parcels, areas or tracts of land.

DUCK SHACK -- A structure having no permanent water or sewage treatment
connection which is used to store recreational equipment meant for hunting waterfowl.

DUNE -- A hill or ridge of sand built up by wind along sandy coasts.

DUNE, ACTIVE -- A dune that migrates, grows and diminishes from the force of wind
and supply of sand. Active dunes include all open sand dunes, active hummocks, and
active foredunes.

Clatsop County Land and Water I-16 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS

DUNE, CONDITIONALLY STABLE -- A dune which is presently in a stable condition,
but vulnerable to becoming active due to fragile vegetative cover.

DUNE, INTERDUNE AREA -- A low lying area between higher sand land forms which is
generally under water during part of the year. Interdune areas are characterized by a
deflation plain which is wind scoured to the level of the summer water table.

DUNE, OLDER STABILIZED -- A dune that is stable from wind erosion, has significant
soil development, and that may include diverse forest cover. May include older
foredunes.

DUNE, OPEN SAND -- A collective term for active unvegetated dune land forms.

DUNE, RECENTLY STABILIZED -- A dune with sufficient vegetation to be stabilized
from wind erosion, but with little, if any, development of soil or cohesion of sand under
the vegetation. Recently stabilized dunes include conditionally stable foredunes,
conditionally stable dunes, dune complexes, and younger stabilized dunes.

DUNE, YOUNGER STABILIZED -- A wind stable dune with weakly developed soils and
vegetation.

DWELLING TYPES -- For the purpose of this Ordinance, dwellings are separated into
the following categories and defined as follows:
1) DWELLING, ATTACHED – Two or more dwelling units attached by common
walls, roof or other structural part, at a common property line between separate
lots or parcels.
2) DWELLING, DETACHED – A single dwelling unit whose construction does not
share a common wall, roof or other structural part with another unit. The term
“dwelling, detached” includes manufactured dwellings and prefabricated
dwellings.
3) DWELLING, DUPLEX – Two attached or detached dwelling units on a single lot
or parcel.
4) DWELLING, HEALTH HARDSHIP – A manufactured dwelling or recreational
vehicle, or the temporary use of an existing building, in conjunction with an
existing dwelling as a temporary use for the term of a health hardship suffered by
the existing residents or a relative of the resident.
5) DWELLING, MULTI-UNIT – Five or more attached dwelling units on a lot or
parcel.
6) DWELLING, QUADPLEX – Four attached dwelling units on a lot or parcel.
7) DWELLING, TRIPLEX – Three attached dwelling units on a lot or parcel. [ORD.
24-14] [ORD 25-02]

DWELLING UNIT – A single unit designed for residential occupancy for living purposes
providing complete independent living facilities including permanent spaces for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation. [ORD 25-02]

Clatsop County Land and Water I-17 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS

DWELLING UNIT, ACCESSORY (ADU) – An attached or detached dwelling unit that is
secondary to the primary dwelling unit. The unit includes its own independent living
facilities with provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation, and is
designed for residential occupancy independent of the primary dwelling unit. A single-
unit dwelling with an accessory dwelling unit (ADU), as defined herein, located within
one of the rural community zones shall not be considered a duplex or multi-unit
dwelling. [ORD 25-02] [ORD 25-16]

EASEMENT -- A non-possessory interest in the land of another which entitles the owner
of the interest to a limited use or enjoyment of the other's land and protection from
interference with this use.

EFFLUENT -- With regard to water quality, treated or untreated liquid entering the
estuary from a point source. With regard to dredging, water, including dissolved and
suspended materials, which flows from a dredged material disposal site.

EMERGENCY – A human created or natural event or circumstance that causes or
threatens widespread loss of life, injury to person or property, human suffering or
financial loss, including but not limited to:
(a) Fire, wildfire, explosion, flood, severe weather, landslides or mud slides,
drought, earthquake, volcanic activity, tsunamis or other oceanic phenomena,
spills or releases of oil or hazardous material, contamination, utility or
transportation emergencies, disease, blight, infestation, civil disturbance, riot,
sabotage, acts of terrorism and war; and
(b) A rapid influx of individuals from outside this state, a rapid migration of
individuals from one part of this state to another or a rapid displacement of
individuals if the influx, migration or displacement result form the type of event
or circumstance described in paragraph (a) of this subsection. [ORD 23-13]

EMERGENCY CONDITIONS IN ESTUARINE AREAS -- Emergency conditions are
limited to activities such as bankline or streamline alteration, dike repair, fill, and
shoreline stabilization undertaken during high water and/or storm conditions.
Emergency activities affecting removal of material from estuarine aquatic areas or filling
of estuarine aquatic areas are those necessary for preventing irreparable harm, injury or
damage to persons or property. The Oregon Division of State Lands requires
notification within 24 hours following the start of emergency activities. Measures taken
as a result of emergency conditions will be inspected following notification and denied or
approved. [ORD. 23-13]

EMPLOYEE HOUSING – Dwelling units provided by an employer for employees. [ORD.
24-14]

ESTUARINE ENHANCEMENT -- An action which results in a long-term improvement of
existing estuarine functional characteristics and processes that is not the result of a
creation or restoration action.

Clatsop County Land and Water I-18 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS

ESTUARINE OPEN-WATER DREDGED MATERIAL DISPOSAL -- All type of in-water
dredged material disposal within the estuary which do not fall into the classifications of
flowlane disposal, expanded flowlane/thalweg disposal, beach nourishment, sump
disposal, agitation dredging and disposal to provide fill material for an approved aquatic
area fill project. [ORD. 24-18]

ESTUARY -- A body of water semi-enclosed by land, connecting with the open ocean,
and within which salt water is diluted by freshwater derived from the land. The estuary
includes: estuarine water, intertidal areas, and submerged lands. The Columbia River
Estuary, for regulatory purposes, extends to the Columbia River Mile 38, and to the
head of tide for all tributaries. [ORD. 25-08]

EVENT, TEMPORARY – An event that is held primarily on or is using Public Property
that has an expected attendance of more than [50], but no more than [500] people, that
will not continue for more than [72] hours in any three month period, and that will be
located in a rural or resource area. Temporary Events are permitted through a
ministerial/Type I or Temporary Use process and are not considered “outdoor mass
gatherings” as defined by ORS 433.735 or Agri-tourism events as provided for by ORS
215.283(4). [Ord. 18-02]

EXCAVATE -- The removal by man of sand, sediment, or other material from an area of
land or water for other than commercial or industrial use.

EXCEPTION AREA -- An area no longer subject to the requirements of one or more of
the Statewide Planning Goals because the area is the subject of a site specific
exception acknowledged pursuant to ORS 197.732 and OAR Chapter 660, Division 4.

EXANDED FLOWLANE/THALWEG DISPOSAL – Disposal of dredged material in
contours of 20 feet in depth or greater that are contiguous with the Federal Navigation
Channel, and which may occur in areas designated Conservation Other Resources.
[ORD. 24-18]

EXPLORATION FOR MINERAL AND AGGREGATE RESOURCES -- All activities
conducted on or beneath the surface of the earth for the purpose of determining
presence, location, extent, grade, or economic viability of a deposit. “Exploration” does
not include prospecting or chemical processing of minerals. “Minerals” includes soil,
coal, clay, stone, sand, gravel, metallic ore and any other solid material or substance
excavated for commercial, industrial or construction use from natural deposits situated
within or upon lands in this state.

FAMILY – A group of persons living together as one housekeeping unit using one
kitchen. [ORD. 23-02]

FAMILY CHILD CARE HOME – Means a home that is registered or certified by the
Oregon Department of Education Office of Child Care to provide child care in the

Clatsop County Land and Water I-19 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
provider’s home to not more than 16 children, including children of the provider,
regardless of full-time or part-time status. A family child care home is a residential use.
[ORD. 23-04]

FARM OPERATOR -- A person who operates a farm, doing the work and making the
day-to-day decisions about such things as planting, harvesting, feeding and marketing.
[Ord. 18-02]

FARM OR RANCH OPERATION -- All lots or parcels of land in the same ownership that
are used by the farm or ranch operator for farm use as defined in ORS 215.203(2).
[Ord. 18-02]

FARM PRODUCT PROCESSING FACILITY – A facility for:
10) Processing farm crops, including the production of biofuel, if at least one-quarter
of the farm crops come from the farm operation containing the facility; or
11) Slaughtering, processing or selling poultry or poultry products from the farm
operation containing the facility and consistent with the licensing exemption for a
person under ORS 603.038(2). [ORD. 23-02]

FARM STAND STRUCTURE -- A structure that is designed and used for the sale of
farm crops and livestock as provided in the definition of FARM USE. A food stand is
considered to be a farm stand structure. [Ord. 18-02]

FARM USE -- The current employment of land for the primary purpose of obtaining a
profit in money by raising, harvesting and selling crops or the feeding, breeding,
management and sale of, or the produce of, livestock, poultry, fur-bearing animals or
honeybees or for dairying and the sale of dairy products or any other agricultural or
horticultural use or animal husbandry or any combination thereof. "Farm use" includes
the preparation and storage of the products raised on such land for human use and
animal use and disposal by marketing or otherwise. “Farm use” also includes the
current employment of land for the primary purpose of obtaining a profit in money by
stabling or training equines including but not limited to providing riding lessons, training
clinics and schooling shows. "Farm use" also includes the propagation, cultivation,
maintenance and harvesting of aquatic species. It does not include the use of land
subject to the provisions of ORS Chapter 321, except land used exclusively for growing
cultured Christmas subsection ORS 215.203(3) or land described in ORS 321.267(1)(e)
or 321.415(5). “Current Employment”, as used in this definition, includes:
1) Farmland, the operation or use of which is subject to any farm-related
government program;
2) Land lying fallow for one year as a normal and regular requirement of good
agricultural husbandry;
3) Land planted in orchards or other perennials, other than land specified in sub-
paragraph (4) of this paragraph, prior to maturity;

Clatsop County Land and Water I-20 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
4) Land not in an Exclusive Farm Use zone which has not been eligible for
assessment at special farm use value in the year prior to planting the current
crop and has been planted in orchards, cultured Christmas trees or vineyards for
at least three years;
5) Wasteland, in an Exclusive Farm Use zone, dry or covered with water, neither
economically tillable nor grazeable, lying in or adjacent to and in common
ownership with a farm use land and which is not currently being used for an
economic farm use;
6) Land under buildings supporting accepted farm practices;
7) Water impoundments lying in or adjacent to and in common ownership with farm
use land;
8) Any land constituting a woodlot, not to exceed 20 acres, contiguous to and
owned by the owner of land specially valued for farm use event if the land
constituting the woodlot is not utilized in conjunction with farm use;
9) Land lying idle for no more than one year where the absence of farming activity is
due to the illness of the farmer or member of the farmer’s immediate family. For
purposes of the paragraph, illness includes injury or infirmity whether or not such
illness results in death;
10) Any land described under ORS 321.267(1)(e) or 321.415(5); and
11) Any land in an Exclusive Farm Use zone used for the storage of agricultural
products that would otherwise be disposed of through open field burning or
propane flaming.

FARM USE, COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY IN CONJUNCTION WITH -- The processing,
packaging, treatment, wholesale distribution and storage of a product primarily derived
from farm activities in the local agricultural community. Also includes retail sales of
products, supplies and services, which may be offered in a farm stand structure, to the
agricultural community that support the production and harvesting of agricultural
products. [Ord. 18-02]

FARMWORKER HOUSING-- Housing limited to occupancy by farmworkers and their
immediate families, no dwelling unit of which is occupied by a relative of the owner or
operator of the farmworker housing. [Ord. 18-02]

FEDERAL NAVITATION CHANNEL – A federally-maintained passage in a stretch of
water where the river bed has been deepened to allow access to large vessels. [ORD.
24-18]

FENCE, SIGHT OBSCURING -- A fence consisting of wood, metal or masonry, or an
evergreen hedge or other evergreen planting, arranged in such a way as to obstruct
vision.

FILL -- The placement by man of sand, sediment or other material to create new
uplands or raise the elevation of the land.

FINANCIAL INSTITUTION – A business establishment in which money is kept for

Clatsop County Land and Water I-21 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
savings or commercial purposes, or is invested, supplied for loads, or exchanged. This
term shall include credit unions and similar establishments which typically include
automatic teller machines (ATMs) and drive-through facilities. [ORD. 23-07]

FLATS -- Intertidal and all subtidal areas with low slopes and current velocities, and
usually consisting of relatively fine sediments.

FLOATING RESIDENCE -- A dwelling unit which floats on a water body and is designed
such that it does not come into contact with land except by ramp. Floating residences
may also be referred to as floating homes or houseboats. A floating residence is not
equivalent to a duck shack or other similar recreational structure designed for temporary
use. It is also not equivalent to a boathouse, designed for storage of boats.

FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM) -- An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Insurance administrator has delineated both the special hazard areas and
the risk premium zones applicable to the community. [Ord. 18-02]

FLOOR AREA, GROSS (GFA) – The total area of all enclosed space within a building.
Gross floor area is measured from exterior building walls on all floors of a building or
structure. Also referred to as gross square feet, or GSF. [ORD 25-02]

FLOOR AREA, HABITABLE -- The sum of the area of all enclosed space within a
building, measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the center line of
walls separating two or more attached dwellings or buildings. Floor Area does not
include:
1) Uninhabitable attic spaces and crawlspaces providing headroom of less than
seven feet measured from the highest point of the finished ceiling to the top of
the finished floor surface.
2) Basements, if more than 50% of the height of the basement is below grade.
3) Uncovered steps or fire escapes.
4) Private garages, carports or porches.
5) Water towers or cooling towers.
6) Off-street parking or loading spaces.
7) Vent shafts. [ORD 25-02]

FLOWLANE DISPOSAL -- Disposal of dredged material in the flow lane, in a location
where the prevailing sediment transport is in a downstream direction.

FLOWLANE DREDGED MATERIAL DISPOSAL -- Deposition of dredged material in or
adjacent to a natural or maintained navigational channel in a location where the
prevailing sediment transport will carry the material downstream.  [ORD. 24-18]

FLUSHING TIME -- The length of time required to remove an introduced pollutant from
a body of water through tidal or fresh water flow.

FOREDUNE, ACTIVE -- An unstable barrier ridge of sand paralleling the beach and

Clatsop County Land and Water I-22 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
subject to wind erosion, water erosion, and growth from new sand deposits. Active
foredunes may include areas with beach grass, and occur in sand spits and at river
mouths as well as elsewhere.

FOREDUNE BREACHING – The alteration of the crest of an active foredune or
conditionally stable foredune or conditionally stable foredune where alteration is not
conducted as part of a foredune grading plan or remedial grading.

FOREDUNE, CONDITIONALLY STABLE -- An active foredune that has ceased
growing in height, and that has become conditionally stable with regard to wind erosion.

FOREDUNE GRADING – The alteration of active dunes in a manner that changes their
shape and height. Foredune grading is intended to be preventative and is undertaken
primarily for view enhancement.

FOREDUNE, OLDER -- A conditionally stable foredune that has become wind stabilized
by diverse vegetation and soil development.

FOREST LANDS -- Those lands acknowledged as forest lands in the Comprehensive
Plan. Where a plan amendment involving forest lands is proposed, forest land shall
include lands which are suitable for commercial forest uses including adjacent or nearby
lands which are necessary to permit forest operations or practices and other forested
land that maintain soil, air, water, scenic resources, and fish and wildlife resources.
Land use exclusively for growing cultured Christmas trees is not included in this
definition of forest lands.

FOREST MANAGEMENT FACILITY -- Permanent or temporary structure(s) to provide
workspace, storage, repair, operational base, communication site and support for the
management of public or private forest lands.

FOREST MANAGEMENT, RESEARCH AND EXPERIMENTATION FACILITIES --
Facilities needed by the State Board of Higher Education to conduct research and
experimentation programs to develop the maximum yield from the forest lands of
Oregon to obtain the fullest utilization of the forest resource, and to study air and water
pollution as it relates to the forest products industries.

FOREST OPERATION -- Any commercial activity relating to the growing, harvesting or
management of any forest tree species as defined in ORS 527.620(6). [Ord. 18-02]

FRONTAGE -- All the property that abuts a public or private street, measured along the
street line. [ORD 25-02]

Clatsop County Land and Water I-23 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
FULL CUT-OFF LIGHTING -- A luminaire light
distribution where zero candela intensity occurs at
an angle of 90 degrees above nadir, and at all
greater angles from nadir. Additionally, the
candela per 1000 lamp lumens does not exceed
100 (10 percent) at a vertical angle of 80 degrees
above nadir. This applies to all lateral angles
around the luminaire. (See Image)

GARAGE, PRIVATE -- See “ACCESSORY STRUCTURE, DETACHED”. [ORD 25-02]

GARAGE, PUBLIC -- A deck, building or part thereof used for repair or storage of
vehicles for remuneration by the owner and/or employees of said garage.

GAS -- All natural gas and all other fluid hydrocarbons not defined as oil, including
condensate originally in the gaseous phase in the reservoir.

GAS OIL WELL -- A well from which oil or gas is obtained.

GEOLOGIC -- Relating to the occurrence and properties of earth. Geologic hazards
include faults, land and mudslides, and earthquakes.

GOLF COURSE -- An area of land with highly maintained natural turf laid out for the
game of golf with a series of nine or more holes, each including a tee, a fairway, a
putting green, and often one or more natural or artificial hazards. A "golf course" for
purposes of this ordinance means a nine- or 18-hole regulation golf course or a
combination nine- and 18-hole regulation golf course consistent with the following:
1) A regulation 18-hole golf course is generally characterized by a site of about 120
to 150 acres of land, has a playable distance of 5,000 to 7,200 yards, and a par
of 64 to 73 strokes;
2) A rule nine-hole golf course is generally characterized by a site of about 65 to 90
acres of land, has a playable distance of 2,500 to 3,600 yards, and a par of 32 to
36 strokes.
[Ord. 18-02]

GOLF COURSE, NON-REGULATION -- A golf course or golf course-like development
that does not meet the definition of golf course in this rule, including but not limited to
executive golf courses, par 3 golf courses, pitch and putt golf courses, miniature golf
courses, driving ranges and Frisbee golf. Non-regulation golf courses are not permitted
on lands zoned EFU or AF. [Ord. 18-02]

Clatsop County Land and Water I-24 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS

GOVERNING BODY -- A City Council,
County Board of Commissioners, or
County Court or its designate, including
Community Development Director,
Hearings Office, Planning Commission or
as provided by Oregon law.

GRADE, AVERAGE -- The average
elevation of the undisturbed ground prior to
construction at the four principal corners of
the proposed structure. See diagram at
right.

GRAZING -- The use of land for pasture of
horses, cattle, sheep, goats and/or other domestic herbivorous animals, alone or in
conjunction with agricultural pursuits.

GROINS -- A partial barrier to waterflow, that is constructed of rock and designed to
interrupt sand movement along a shore.

GROSS LEASABLE AREA (GLA) -- The portion of GFA that is available for lease to a
tenant. GLA is equal to GFA minus common areas that are not leased to tenants. These
common areas include spaces for circulation between tenant spaces (lobbies, elevator
cores, stairs, corridors, and atriums), utility / mechanical spaces and parking areas.
[ORD 25-02]

GUEST HOUSE -- An accessory building, studio, or other habitable space/structure,
used in conjunction with the main dwelling for the temporary housing of non-paying
visitors and guests. A guesthouse is not an independent dwelling unit. [ORD. 23-03]
[ORD 25-02]

GUEST ROOMS -- Any room or rooms used or intended to be used by a guest for
sleeping purposes. Every 100 square feet of habitable floor area in a dormitory shall be
considered to be a guest room. [ORD 25-02]

HEALTH/FITNESS CLUB – A privately-owned facility that primarily focuses on
individual fitness or training. It typically provides exercise classes, fitness equipment,
gymnasium, weight room, spa, and locker rooms. May also include ancillary facilities
such as a swimming pool, whirlpool, sauna, limited retail, and tennis, racquetball or
handball courts or a small restaurant or snack bar. [ORD. 23-07]

Clatsop County Land and Water I-25 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
HEIGHT, BUILDING --
The vertical distance
measured from the
average undisturbed
ground to the highest
point on the building or
structure excluding
chimneys, utility vents,
and antennas. See
diagram at right. [ORD
25-02]

HIGH VALUE FARM LAND -- Is described as:
1) High Value Farmland: Land in a tract composed predominantly of soils that are:
a) Irrigated and classified prime, unique, Class I or II; or
b) Not irrigated and classified prime, unique, Class I or II.
2) In addition to that land described in Subsection 1), high-value farmland, if outside
the Willamette Valley, includes tracts growing specified perennials as
demonstrated by the most recent aerial photography of the Agricultural
Stabilization and Conservation Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture
taken prior to November 4, 1993. "Specified perennials" means perennials grown
for market or research purposes including, but not limited to, nursery stock,
berries, fruits, nuts, Christmas trees, or vineyards, but not including seed crops,
hay, pasture or alfalfa;
3) In addition to that land described in Subsection 1), high-value farmland, if west of
the summit of the Coast Range and used in conjunction with a dairy operation on
January 1, 1993, includes tracts composed predominantly of the following soils in
Class III or IV or composed predominantly of a combination of the soils described
in Subsection 1) and the following soils:
a) Subclassification IIIe, specifically, Astoria, Hembre, Knappa, Meda,
Quillayutte and Winema;
b) Subclassification IIIw, specifically, Brenner and Chitwood;
c) Subclassification IVe, specifically, Astoria, Hembre, Meda, Nehalem,
Neskowin and Winema; and
d) Subclassification IVw, specifically, Coquille.
[Ord. 18-02]

HISTORIC HOME – A single-unit dwelling constructed between 1850 and 1945. [ORD.
23-03] [ORD. 25-16]

HISTORICAL RESOURCE -- Those districts, sites, buildings, structures, and artifacts
which have a relationship to events or conditions of the human past.

HOME OCCUPATION – A lawfully approved commercial activity operated within a
dwelling unit or attached or detached accessory structure. [ORD 25-02]

Clatsop County Land and Water I-26 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
HOSPITAL – A hospital is any institution where medical or surgical care and overnight
accommodations are provided to non-ambulatory and ambulatory patients. [ORD. 23-
07]

HOTEL -- A building or portion thereof of more than five (5) sleeping rooms designated
or used for occupancy of individuals who are lodged with or without meals, and in which
no provision is made for cooking in any individual room or suite.

HOUSE OF WORSHIP – A church, synagogue, temple, mosque, chapel, meeting
house, or other non-residential place of worship. The term also includes uses
customarily associated with the practice of religious activity, including worship services,
religion classes, weddings, funerals, meal programs, child care or preschool or pre-
kindergarten education. The term does not include parochial education for kindergarten
through grade 12 or higher education. [ORD. 25-16]

INDUSTRIAL – Any activity involving the manufacturing or treatment of any commodity
including the assembly, packaging, canning, bottling, or processing of any item. To
change any commodity in composition for size, shape, texture, or appearance, is
deemed to be an industrial process. [ORD. 23-07]

INDUSTRIAL, HEAVY – Manufacturing, assembly, processing raw materials, repairing,
research, storage, wholesaling and distribution, retailing of permitted uses, and closely
related heavy industrial uses, in which all operations, other than transportation, may be
performed within enclosed buildings or in open storage areas subject to performance
standards imposed by all applicable governmental agencies. [ORD. 23-07]

INDUSTRIAL, LIGHT – An industrial facility devoted to a single use with an emphasis
on activities other than manufacturing and typically has minimal office space. Typical
light industrial activities include printing, material testing, and assembly of data
processing equipment. [ORD. 23-07]

INDUSTRIAL PARK – Characterized by a mix of manufacturing, service, and
warehouse facilities with a wide variation in the proportion of each type of use from one
location to another. Many industrial parks contain highly-diversified facilities and multiple
tenants. [ORD. 23-07]

IN-KIND -- With respect to mitigation, any actions that duplicate the full array of wetland
and aquatic area characteristics that are lost or impaired by a development action.

INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION – Public or private vocational and trade
schools, academies, colleges, and universities. [ORD. 23-07]

INTERTIDAL -- Between extreme low water and the landward limit of aquatic
vegetation, or where vegetation is absent, mean higher high water.

IN-WATER DISPOSAL -- The disposal of dredged material in the estuary, river or

Clatsop County Land and Water I-27 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
ocean.

IN-WATER DREDGED MATERIAL DISPOSAL -- Deposition of dredged materials in an
aquatic area. Methods include beach nourishment, flowlane disposal, expanded
flowlane/thalweg disposal, estuarine open-water disposal, in-water sump disposal,
agitation dredging and ocean disposal. [ORD. 24-18]

IRRIGATED -- Agricultural land watered by an artificial or controlled means, such as
sprinklers, furrows, ditches, or spreader dikes. An area or tract is “irrigated” if it is
currently watered, or has established rights to use water for irrigation, including such
tracts that receive water for irrigation from a water or irrigation district or other provider.
An area or tract within a water or irrigation district that was once irrigated shall continue
to be considered "irrigated" even if the irrigation water was removed or transferred to
another tract. [Ord. 18-02]

JETTY -- A barrier to waterflow that is constructed of rock or concrete and used to
stabilize the navigation channel and improve scour at the mouth of the estuary. Jetties
must be able to withstand extreme wave conditions and may alter littoral drift.

KENNEL -- Any lot or premises in which four (4) or more dogs or cats at least four
months of age are kept commercially for board, propagation, training or sale.

LAND DISPOSAL -- Deposition of dredged material on upland areas or on shorelands,
including on the top and landward sides of flood control dikes.

LAND DIVISION – Land divided to create legally separate lots or parcels by partition or
subdivision. [ORD 25-02]

LAND USE DECISION – A land use decision is defined by ORS 197.015(10). [ORD 25-
02]

LAWFULLY ESTABLISHED UNIT OF LAND – “Lawfully established unit of land”
means:
(1) A lot or parcel created pursuant to ORS 92.010 to 92.192; or
(2) Another unit of land created:
a. In compliance with all applicable planning, zoning and subdivision or
partition ordinances and regulations; or
b. By deed or land sales contract, if there were no applicable planning,
zoning or subdivision or partition ordinances or regulations.
“Lawfully established unit of land” does not mean a unit of land created solely to
establish a separate tax account. [Ord. 21-05]

LEGISLATIVE DECISION – A legislative decision involves formulation of policy by the
Board of Commissioners. Ex-parte contact requirements are not applicable to legislative
hearings. [ORD 25-02]

Clatsop County Land and Water I-28 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
LOADING SPACE, OFF-STREET – A dedicated off-street space for the temporary
parking of commercial vehicles or trucks while loading or unloading merchandise or
materials. Required off-street loading spaces are not to be included as off-street parking
space in computation of required off-street parking space. [ORD 25-02]

LOG DUMP/SORT AREA (IN WATER) -- The use of an area to transfer logs to or from
the land to water, normally associated with log storage/sort yards, log booming or
processing/shipping facilities where rafts are built or dismantled.

LOG STORAGE (IN WATER) -- The use of water surface area to store commercial logs
in rafts until ready for market.

LOG STORAGE/SORTING AREA (DRY LAND) -- An area where logs are gathered
from surrounding harvest areas, weighed, sorted for species, size and quality, and
stored until ready for transfer to water storage areas or to market.

LOT – A single unit of land that is created by a subdivision of land as defined under
ORS 92.010. In certain instances, this ordinance also uses the term "lot" in a broader
sense inclusive of the terms parcel, unit of land, and tract of land. [Ord. 18-02] [ORD 25-
02]

LOT, BUILDABLE -- A legal lot which is proposed for use in compliance with this
Ordinance, and which has received approval of the water supply and sewage
disposal method.

LOT, LEGAL -- A unit of land which meets the minimum size requirements of the
zone in which it is located and which has a minimum 25-foot frontage on a state,
county or public road or which has access to a state, county, or public road by
means of a private road easement.

LOT OF RECORD -- Any lot or parcel lawfully created by a subdivision or
partition plat of record in the County Clerk’s Office, or any lot or parcel lawfully
created by deed or land sales contract, recorded in the Deed Records of Clatsop
County, prior to land use partitioning requirements.

LOT AREA -- The total horizontal area within the lines of a lot, parcel or tract of land,
excluding: (1) public, county, state, or federal road rights-of-way, and (2) submerged or
submersible lands, as defined in ORS 274.005, if the lands are equal to or greater than
20% of the total lot area. [ORD. 25-02]

Clatsop County Land and Water I-29 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
LOT CORNER -- A lot located at the intersection of two or more streets, other than an
alley, at their intersection. A loop road is not considered the intersection of two streets.
See illustration at right. [ORD. 25-02]

LOT COVERAGE -- The percentage of a lot covered by a building or buildings. Lot
coverage does not include gravel or paved surface areas. [ORD. 25-02]

LOT, CUL-DE-SAC – A lot which has a front lot line contiguous with the outer radius of
the turn-around portion of a cul-de-sac. Such lots shall have a minimum street frontage
of 45 feet. The calculation of lot width
is made by measuring width at the
midpoint of side lot lines. [ORD. 25-
02]

LOT DEPTH -- The distance
measured from the mid-point of the
front lot line to the mid-point of the
opposite lot line. See example below.
[ORD. 25-02]

LOT, DOUBLE-
FRONTAGE/THROUGH – A lot other
than a corner lot that has frontage on
two streets. [ORD. 25-02]

LOT, FLAG – A lot that has access to a public right-of-way by means of a narrow strip of
land. The front lot line for the purposes of setbacks shall be designated as that property
line which intersects the access way for the flag lot. [ORD. 25-02]

LOT INTERIOR -- A lot other than a corner lot and having frontage on only one street.
[ORD. 25-02]

Clatsop County Land and Water I-30 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
LOT LINE -- The
property line
bounding a lot.

LOT LINE
ADJUSTMENT --
See Property Line
Adjustment. [ORD.
25-02]

LOT LINE, FRONT
-- The common
property line(s)
between a lot and a
street (other than
an alley) that
separates the lot
from the street and
from which access
is provided to the
lot. For the purpose of establishing setback requirements, orientation of the dwelling unit
is independent of access to the parcel. For a corner lot, the shortest line along a street
(other than an alley) that separates the lot from the street is the front lot line. If two or
more street lot lines are of equal length, then the applicant or property owner can
choose which lot line is to be the front. [ORD. 25-02]

LOT LINE, REAR -- The lot line which is opposite the front lot line and which separates
one lot from another. [ORD. 25-02]

1) In the case of an irregular,
triangular or other-shaped lot, an
imaginary line 10 feet in length
shall be drawn within the lot,
parallel to and at a maximum
distance from the front lot line.
(See diagram at right)
2) In the case of a double-frontage or
through lot that is not a corner lot,
there is no rear lot line. Each street
frontage is considered a front lot line. [ORD. 25-02]

LOT LINE, SIDE -- Any property line which is neither a front nor a rear lot line.

LOT, OCEAN FRONT – A lot, parcel or unit of land that abuts the ocean shore state
recreation area (as defined in OAR 736-021-0030) or a lot, parcel or unit of land where
no residence may be legally placed or constructed between the subject lot and the

Clatsop County Land and Water I-31 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
ocean shore state recreation area. See standards in 3.0150. [ORD. 25-02]

LOT WIDTH -- The average horizontal distance between the midpoints of the side lot
lines. The term “average lot width” has the same meaning as “lot width” as defined here.
[ORD. 25-02]

LOW WATER BRIDGES -- A specific type of bridge crossing. Low water bridges are
temporarily placed by private property owners across minor streams and sloughs during
periods of low or intermittent water flow in order to provide access for farm machinery
and other uses. Low water bridges are generally constructed of logs or planking and
cable, and, as such, fill required for approaches to these bridges will in all cases be
minimal (e.g. grading of a road approach) and consistent with the resource capabilities
of the area and the purpose of the management unit. Low water bridges are removed
during periods of high water flow and are replaced in the same location in subsequent
seasons. Note that in sloughs behind tidegates, where water levels are regulated and
changes in seasonal water heights are minimal low water bridges may be in place year-
round.

MAINTENANCE -- Routine upkeep of existing structure or facilities which are in current
use or operation.

MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR -- Routine upkeep of an existing structure or remedial
restoration of a damaged structure in current use or operation. Maintenance and repair
may involve changes in the structure's location, configuration, orientation, or alignment if
these changes are limited to the minimum amount necessary to retain or restore its
operation or function or to meet current building, engineering or safety standards.

MANUFACTURED DWELLING – Means a residential trailer, mobile home or
manufactured home, as defined by ORS 446.003 and as shown below. “Manufactured
Dwelling” does not include any building or structure constructed to conform to the State
of Oregon Structural Specialty Code, the Low-Rise Residential Dwelling Code or the
Small Home Specialty Code.
1) Residential trailer: A structure constructed for movement on the public
highways that has sleeping, cooking and plumbing facilities, that is intended for
human occupancy, that is being used for residential purposes and that was
constructed before January 1, 1962.
2) Mobile home: A structure constructed for movement on the public highways that
has sleeping, cooking and plumbing facilities, that is intended for human
occupancy, that is being used for residential purposes and that was constructed
between January 1, 1962 and June 15, 1976, and met the construction
requirements of Oregon mobile home law in effect at the time of construction.

Clatsop County Land and Water I-32 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
3) Manufactured home: A structure constructed after June 26, 1976, for movement
on the public highways, that has sleeping, cooking and plumbing facilities, that is
intended for human occupancy, that is being used for residential purposes and
that was constructed in accordance with federal manufactured housing
construction and safety standards and regulations in effect at the time of
construction. [ORD 25-02]

MANUFACTURED DWELLING PARK: A place where four or more manufactured
dwellings or prefabricated structures (as defined in ORS 455.010) that are relocatable
and more than 8 ½ feet wide, are located within 500 feet of one another on a lot, tract or
parcel of land under the same ownership, the primary purpose of which is to rent or
lease space or keep space for rent or lease to any person for a charge or fee paid or to
be paid for the rental or lease or use of facilities or to offer space free in connection with
securing the trade or patronage of such person. “Manufactured Dwelling Park” does not
include a lot or lots located within a subdivision being rented or leased for occupancy by
no more than one manufactured dwelling per lot if the subdivision was approved by
Clatsop County. [ORD 25-02]

MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION – A subdivision as defined and regulated
under ORS 92.830-92.845. [ORD 25-02]

MANUFACTURING – An area where the primary activity is the conversion of raw
materials or parts into finished products. Size and type of activity may vary substantially
from one facility to another. In addition to the production of goods, manufacturing
generally includes supporting offices, warehouse, research, and associated functions.
[ORD.23-07]

MARINA -- Facilities which provide moorage, launching, storage, supplies and a variety
of services for recreational, commercial and fishing vessels. They are differentiated from
docks and moorages by their larger scale, the provision of significant land side services
and/or the use of a solid breakwater (rock, bulkheading, etc.).

MEAN HIGH WATER (MHW) -- The average height of all high waters over a 19-year
period.

MEAN HIGHER HIGH WATER (MHHW) -- The average height of the higher high waters
over a 19-year period.

MEAN LOW WATER (MLW) -- The average height of all low waters over a 19-year
period.

MEAN LOWER LOW WATER (MLLW) – The average height of the lower low waters
over a 19-year period.

MEAN SEA LEVEL -- The average height of the sea for all states of the tide.

Clatsop County Land and Water I-33 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
MILITARY ACTIVITIES -- The movement of equipment and/or personnel related to the
military including but not limited to the following (allowed in Military Reserve (MR) and
EFU, and AF zones):
1) Combat exercises.
2) Air and ground combat exercises.
3) Transport of military property.

MINE -- Premises from which any rock, sand, gravel, stone, topsoil, clay, mud, peat,
organic, or mineral is removed or excavated for sale, or other reasons, and exclusive of
excavating and grading for streets and roads and the process of grading a lot
preparatory to the construction of a building for which a permit has been issued by a
public agency. [Ord. 18-02]

MINERAL RESOURCES -- Soil, coal, clay, stone, sand, gravel, metallic ore and any
other solid material or substance excavated for commercial, industrial or construction
uses from natural deposits situated within or upon lands in this state.

MINING -- “Mining” includes all or any part of the process of mining by the removal of
overburden and the extraction of natural mineral deposits thereby exposed by any
method including open pit mining operations, auger mining operations, processing,
surface impacts of underground mining, production of surface mining refuse and the
construction of adjacent off-site borrow pits except those constructed for use as access
roads. “Mining” does not include excavations of sand, gravel, clay, rock, organic or other
similar materials conducted by a landowner or tenant on the landowner or tenant’s
property for the primary purpose of reconstruction or maintenance of access roads and
excavation or grading operations conducted in the process of farming, forestry or
cemetery operations, on-site road construction or other on-site construction or non-
surface impacts of underground mines. [Ord. 18-02]

MINING AND PROCESSING OF AGGREGATE AND MINERAL RESOURCES --
“Processing” includes, but is not limited to, crushing, washing, milling and screening as
well as the batching and blending of mineral aggregate into asphalt and Portland
cement concrete located within the operating permit area. “Mining” includes all or any
part of the process of mining by the removal of overburden and the extraction of natural
mineral deposits thereby exposed by any method including open pit mining operations,
auger mining operations, processing, surface impacts of underground mining,
production of surface mining refuse and the construction of adjacent of off-site borrow
pits except those constructed for use as access roads.
“Mining” does not include excavations of sand, gravel, clay, rock or other similar
materials conducted by a landowner or tenant on the landowner or tenant’s property for
the primary purpose of reconstruction or maintenance of access roads and excavation
or grading operations conducted in the process of farming or cemetery operations, on-
site road construction or other on-site construction of non-surface impacts of
underground mines. [Ord. 18-02]

MINING AND PROCESSING OF AGGREGATE, MINERAL, OIL, GAS OR OTHER

Clatsop County Land and Water I-34 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
SUBSURFACE RESOURCES -- Processing of aggregate includes, but is not limited to,
crushing, washing, milling and screening as well as the batching and blending of
mineral aggregate into asphalt and Portland cement concrete located within the
operating permit area. “Gas” means all natural gas and all other fluid hydrocarbons not
defined as oil, including condensation originally in the gaseous phase in the reservoir.
“Oil” means crude petroleum oil and all other hydrocarbons, regardless of gravity, which
are produced in liquid form by ordinary production methods, but does not include liquid
hydrocarbons that we were originally in a gaseous phase in the reservoir. [Ord. 18-02]

MINING/MINERAL EXTRACTION -- The removal for economic use of minerals,
petroleum resources, sands, gravels or other naturally occurring materials from the
shorelands or submerged lands.

MINI-STORAGE – An enclosed storage area containing individual rented or owned
compartments or stalls that is designed and used for renting or leasing individual
storage space to occupants who have exclusive access to the storage space to store or
remove personal property. [ORD.23-07]

MINISTERIAL – A routine governmental action or decision that involves little or no
discretion. The issuance of a development permit or building permit are such actions. A
ministerial action is not a land use decision, as defined in ORS 197.015 and is therefore
not appealable through Oregon’s quasi-judicial process. [ORD. 26-05]

MINOR NAVIGATIONAL IMPROVEMENT -- Alterations necessary to provide water
access to existing or permitted uses including dredging for access channels and for
maintaining existing navigation but excluding fill and in-water navigational structures
other than floating breakwaters or similar permeable wave barriers.

MITIGATION -- Any action that, to some degree, softens the impact of development on
wetlands and aquatic areas. This may include all or any one of the following actions: (1)
avoiding the impact altogether by not taking a certain action or parts of an action; (2)
minimizing impacts by limiting the degree or magnitude of an action and its
implementation; (3) rectifying the impact by repairing, rehabilitating, or restoring the
affected environment; (4) reducing or eliminating the impact over time by preservation
and maintenance operations; and (5) compensating for the impact by creation,
restoration, or enhancement of wetlands and aquatic areas to maintain their functional
processes, such as natural biological productivity, habitat, and species diversity, unique
features and water quality. Any mitigation action or combination of actions may involve
monitoring and remedial follow-up measures.

MOORAGE -- Piling or a dock, or both, used to secure a boat or barge.

MOTEL – A building or group of buildings on the same lot, containing guest units with
separate entrances and consisting of individual sleeping quarters detached or in
connected rows, with or without cooking facilities, for rental to transients.

Clatsop County Land and Water I-35 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
MULTI-PURPOSE RECREATONAL FACILITY – Two or more of the following land uses
combined at one site: miniature golf, batting cages, video arcade, bumper boats, go-
carts, thrill rides and/or a golf driving range. Refreshment areas and/or gift shop may
also be provided. [ORD.23-07]

NAVIGATION AIDS -- Beacons, buoys, range markers and other objects providing
directional assistance.

NAVIGATION CHANNEL -- Authorized channel(s) maintained by the Corps of
Engineers, and other natural or locally maintained channels. See also “Federal
Navigation Channel”. [ORD. 24-18]

NAVIGATIONAL STRUCTURES -- Jetties, groins, pile dikes, breakwaters, and other in-
water structures designed to change or moderate hydraulic characteristics for the
purpose of improving navigation.

NECESSARY FOR -- With respect to forest management dwellings, "necessary for"
means the dwelling will contribute substantially to effective and efficient management of
the forest land to be managed by the resident(s) of the dwelling.

NEIGHBORHOOD/COMMUNITY ORGANIZATION: A non-profit, tax-exempt
organization, including private homeowners’ associations where membership goes with
ownership (501 (c)(7)), and associations open to everyone in the community (501
(c)(4)). Such organizations need to provide the Community Development Department
an Oregon Secretary of State certificate, tax exemption certificate, a copy of the bylaws
showing the boundaries of the organization, and the person designated to receive
mailed notices.

NEIGHBORHOOD PARK OR PLAYGROUND -- An area for intense recreational
activities, such as but not limited to field games, court games, crafts, playground
apparatus area, skating, walking, viewing, picnicking, wading pools, swimming pools.

NET METERING POWER FACILITY -- A facility for the production of energy that:
1) Generates energy using means listed in ORS or OAR such as solar power, wind
power, fuel cells, hydroelectric power, landfill gas, digester gas, waste, dedicated
energy crops available on a renewable basis or low-emission, nontoxic biomass
based on solid organic fuels from wood, forest or field residues; but not including
the production of biofuel as authorized by ORS 215.203(2)(b)(K) in all zones
which allow “Farm Use” and 215.283(1)(r) in the Exclusive Farm Use zone;
2) Is intended to offset part of the customer-generator’s requirements for energy;
3) Will operate in parallel with a utility’s existing transmission and distribution
facilities;
4) Is consistent with generating capacity as specified in ORS 757.300 and/or OAR
860-039-0010 as well as any other applicable regulations;

Clatsop County Land and Water I-36 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
5) Is located on the same tract as the use(s) to which it is accessory and the power
generating facility, tract, and use(s) are all under common ownership and
management.
[Ord. 18-02]

NEW CONSTRUCTION -- Structures for which the start of construction commenced on
or after the effective date of this ordinance.

NEW DREDGING -- Dredging in an area that has not been dredged before; or
deepening an existing dredged channel, basin, or other facility beyond its previously
authorized or approved depth; or dredging a channel, basin, or other facility that has not
been in use or operation in the past five years.

NEW SINGLE-UNIT DWELLING – A dwelling that did not previously exist in residential
or non-residential form. “New” does not include the acquisition, alteration, renovation or
remodeling of an existing structure. [ORD.23-03] [ORD. 25-16]

NON-COMMERCIAL/STAND-ALONE POWER GENERATING FACILITY -- A facility for
the production of energy that:
1) Generates energy using means listed in ORS or OAR such as solar power, wind
power, fuel cells, hydroelectric power, landfill gas, digester gas, waste, dedicated
energy crops available on a renewable basis or low-emission, nontoxic biomass
based on solid organic fuels from wood, forest or field residues but not including
the production of biofuel as authorized by ORS 215.203(2)(b)(K) in all zones
which allow “Farm Use” and 215.283(1)(r) in the Exclusive Farm Use zone;
2) Is intended to provide all of the generator’s requirements for energy for the tract
or the specific lawful accessory use that it is connected to;
3) Operates as a stand-alone power generator not connected to a utility grid; and
4) Is located on the same tract as the use(s) to which it is accessory and the power
generating facility, tract, and use(s) are all under common ownership and
management.
[Ord. 18-02]

NOXIOUS MATTER -- Materials which are capable of causing injury to living organisms
by chemical reaction or is capable of causing detrimental effects upon the
psychological, social, or economic well-being of human beings.

NURSERY, HORTICULTURAL -- A place where trees, shrubs, vines, etc. are
propagated for transplanting or for use as stocks for grafting and where such flora can
be sold.

NURSING HOME – A facility whose primary function is to provide care for persons who
are unable to care for themselves. Examples of such facilities include rest homes,
chronic care, and convalescent homes. Skilled nurses and nursing aides are present 24
hours a day at these sites. Residents often require treatment from a registered
healthcare professional for on-going medical issues. A nursing home resident is not

Clatsop County Land and Water I-37 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
capable of operating a vehicle. [ORD. 23-07]

OCCUPATION – refers to any service, trade or business which has employees,
manufactures a product or provides service to the public.

OCEAN FLOODING -- The flooding of lowland areas by salt water owing to tidal action,
storm surge, or tsunamis (seismic sea waves). Land forms subject to ocean flooding
include beaches, marshes, coastal lowlands, and low lying interdune areas. Areas of
ocean flooding are mapped by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
Ocean flooding includes areas of velocity flooding and associated shallow marine
flooding.

OCEAN YARD – See “Yard, Ocean”. [ORD 25-02]

OFFICE, GENERAL – A location where affairs of businesses, commercial or industrial
organization, or professional persons or firms are conducted. An office building or
buildings may contain a mixture of tenants including professional services, insurance
companies, investment brokers, and tenant services. [ORD. 23-07]

OFFICE, MEDICAL OR DENTAL – A medical-dental office building is a facility that
provides diagnoses and outpatient care on a routine basis but is unable to provide
prolonged in-house medical and surgical care. [ORD. 23-07]

OFF-SITE -- With respect to mitigation, an area separated from the impact area by a
significant distance and that offers little or no opportunity for reestablishing lost values
and functions to organisms which originally benefited from the lost habitat.

OIL -- Crude petroleum oil and all other hydrocarbons, regardless of gravity, which are
produced in liquid form by ordinary production methods, but not including liquid
hydrocarbons that were originally in a gaseous phase in the reservoir.

OIL AND GAS, GEOTHERMAL PRODUCTION -- Liquid or vaporous hydrocarbon
substances, when at normal temperatures, which are removed from the earth by means
other than mining (Conditional use in resource zones).

ON-SITE -- With respect to mitigation, an area adjacent to or near the impact area that
offers a reasonable opportunity for reestablishing lost values and functions to organisms
which originally benefited from the lost habitat.

OPEN PLAY FIELD -- A large, grassy area with no structural improvements intended for
outdoor games and activities within a park by park visitors. The term does not include
developed ball fields, golf courses or courts for racquet sports. [Ord. 18-02]

OPEN SPACE -- Land used for farm or forest uses, and any land area that would, if
preserved and continued in its present use:
1) Conserve and enhance natural or scenic resources;

Clatsop County Land and Water I-38 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
2) Protect air or streams or water supply;
3) Promote conservation of soils, wetlands, beaches or tidal marshes;
4) Conserve landscape areas, such as public or private golf courses, that reduce air
pollution and enhance the value of abutting or neighboring property;
5) Enhance the value to the public of abutting or neighboring parks, forests, wildlife
preserves, nature reservations or sanctuaries or other open space;
6) Promote orderly urban development.

OPEN SPACE, COMMON -- A parcel of land together with any improvements that are
to be used, maintained and enjoyed by the owners and occupants of the individual
building units (Homeowners Association) in subdivisions with common open space,
planned development or cluster development.

OPERATOR -- Any individual, public or private corporation, political subdivision,
agency, board or department of this State, any municipality, partnership, association,
firm, trust, estate or any other legal entity whatsoever that is engaged in mining
operations.

ORGANIZER – Any person who holds, stages or sponsors an outdoor mass gathering
and the owner, lessee or possessor of the real property upon which the outdoor mass
gathering is to take place. [ORD. 23-02]

ORIGINAL PARCEL – A piece of land prior to partitioning or subdividing. [ORD 25-02]

OUT-OF-KIND -- With respect to mitigation, any action that replaces wetland or aquatic
area characteristics that have been impaired or lost due to a development action with a
different set of characteristics that are judged to be of equal resource value.

OUTDOOR MASS GATHERING – An actual or reasonably anticipated assembly of
more than 3,000 persons which is held primarily in open spaces and not in any
permanent structure and within any three-month period is expected to continue for more
than 24 hours and not more than 120 hours, excluding hours required for ingress to and
egress from a gathering that is located on lands zoned for exclusive farm use that are
60 miles or farther from the nearest interstate highway. [ORD. 23-02]

OVER-CHANNELIZATION – Diversion of flow from shallow areas into the main channel
by dredging, pile dikes or other means to the degree that circulation is markedly
decreased and sedimentation increased in the shallow areas.

OVERLAY DISTRICT -- A supplementary district which places special restrictions or
preempts the use of land beyond those required in the underlying zones.

OWNER -- The owner of record of real property as shown on the tax rolls of the County,
or a person who is purchasing a piece of property under contract.

OWNER OR A RELATIVE – The owner of the lot or parcel, or a relative of the owner or

Clatsop County Land and Water I-39 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
the owner’s spouse, including a child, parent, stepparent, grandchild, grandparent, step
and parent, sibling, stepsibling, niece, nephew or first cousin of either. [ORD. 23-02]

OWNERSHIP -- The existence of a legal or equitable interest in a lot, parcel or tract.
[ORD 25-02]

PARCEL –
1) Includes a unit of land created:
By partitioning of land as defined in ORS 92.010;
(A) In compliance with all applicable planning, zoning and partitioning ordinances
and regulations; or
(B) By deed or land sales contract, if there were no applicable planning, zoning or
partitioning ordinances or regulations.
2) Does not include a unit of land created solely to establish a separate tax account.

PARK, PRIVATE – An area devoted to low-intensity outdoor recreational uses for which
enjoyment of the outdoors in an open space, or on land in its natural state, is a
necessary component and the primary focus. [ORD. 25-16]

PARK, PUBLIC -- A public area intended for open space and outdoor recreation use
that is owned and managed by a city, county, regional government, state or federal
agency, or park district and that may be designated as a public park in the applicable
comprehensive plan and zoning ordinance. [Ord. 18-02]

PARKING SPACE – An area permanently available for the parking of a motor vehicle.
[ORD 25-02]

PARKS AND CAMPGROUNDS -- An area devoted to overnight temporary use for
vacation, recreational or emergency purposes, but not for residential purposes. A
camping site may be occupied by a tent, travel trailer or recreational vehicle.
Campgrounds shall not include intensively developed recreational uses such as
swimming pools, tennis courts, retail stores or gas stations.

PARTITION -- Either an act of partitioning land or an area or tract of land partitioned.

PARTITIONING LAND – Dividing land to create not more than three parcels of land
within a calendar year, but does not include:
1) Dividing land as a result of a lien foreclosure, foreclosure of a recorded contract
for the sale of real property or the creation of cemetery lots;
2) A property line adjustment is defined in Section 1.0500;
3) Dividing land as a result of the recording of a subdivision or condominium plat;
4) Selling or granting by a person to a public agency or public body of property for
state highway, county road, city street or other right of way purposes if the road
or right of way complies with the applicable comprehensive plan and ORS
215.283(2)(q) to (2). However, any property sold or granted for state highway,
county road, city street or other right of way purposes shall continue to be

Clatsop County Land and Water I-40 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
considered a single unit of land until the property is further subdivision or
partitioned; or
5) Selling or granting by a public agency or public body of excess property resulting
from the acquisition of land by the state, a political subdivision or special district
for highways, county roads, city streets or other right of way purposes when the
sale or grant is part of a property line adjustment incorporating the excess right of
way into adjacent property. The property line adjustment shall be approved or
disapproved by the applicable local government. If the property line adjustment is
approved, it shall be recorded in the deed records of the county where the
property is located.   [ORD 25-02]

PATIO -- A recreation area adjoining a dwelling which is often paved or a wood
platform. Patio surface is not higher than 30 inches above finished grade. A patio may
be covered or uncovered (see also Deck). [ORD 25-02]

PERFORMANCE STANDARDS -- A criterion to control noise, odor, smoke, toxic or
noxious matter, vibration, fire and explosive hazards, or glare or heat generated by or
inherent in uses of land or buildings.

PERMANENT STRUCTURE – As used in the definition of “Outdoor Mass Gathering”, a
permanent structure includes a stadium, arena, auditorium, coliseum, fairgrounds or
other similar established places for assemblies. [ORD. 23-02] [ORD 25-02]

PERMIT -- Discretionary approval of a proposed development of land under ORS
215.010 to 215.311, 215.317, 215.327 and 215.402 to 215.438 and 215.700 to 215.780
or county legislation or regulation adopted pursuant thereto. “Permit” does not include:
1) A limited land use decision as defined in ORS 197.015;
2) A decision that determines the appropriate zoning classification for a particular
use by applying criteria or performance standards defining the uses permitted
within the zone, and the determination applies only to land within an urban
growth boundary;
3) A decision which determines final engineering design, construction operation,
maintenance, repair or preservation of a transportation facility which is otherwise
authorized by and consistent with the comprehensive plan and land use
regulations; or
4) An expedited land division, as described in ORS 197.360. [ORD 25-02]

PERSON -- Any natural person, firm, partnership, association, social or fraternal
organization, corporation, estate, trust, receiver, syndicate, branch of government, or
any other person or combination acting as a unit.

PERSONAL SERVICES – An establishment which provides for the care of a person or
a person’s apparel, and may include, but not be limited to, beauty/barbershop, nail
salon, tanning salon, laundry, dry cleaning (retail store), garment service, and shoe
repair. [ORD. 23-07]

Clatsop County Land and Water I-41 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
PERSONAL STORAGE STRUCTURE -- See Accessory Structure. [Ord. 18-02]

PERSONAL USE AIRPORT -- An airstrip restricted, except for aircraft emergencies, to
use by the owner, and on an infrequent and occasional basis, by invited guests, and by
commercial aviation activities in connection with agricultural operations. No aircraft may
be based on a personal use airport other than those owned or controlled by the owner
of the airstrip.

PILE DIKE -- A partial barrier to water flow, constructed of piling, that is designed to
direct river flow in a particular direction.

PILING -- Wood, concrete or steel posts driven into the bottom in aquatic areas either
as mooring devices, or to support a dock, float, range marker, or other structure.

PILING/DOLPHIN INSTALLATION -- The driving of wood, concrete or steel piling into
the bottom in aquatic areas to support piers or docks, structures, moored floating
structures, vessels or log rafts or for other purposes. A dolphin is a group of piling held
together by steel cable and used for mooring vessels, log rafts or floating structures.

PLANNED DEVELOPMENT – Any combination of residential land uses. These
developments may contain supporting services such as limited retail and recreational
facilities. [ORD.23-07] [ORD 25-02]

PLAT -- A final map and other writing containing all the descriptions, locations,
specification, provisions, dedications and information regarding a subdivision or
partition. [ORD 25-02]

POTABLE WATER SUPPLY -- See Water Supply, Potable.

PREPARATION -- As it applies to the definition of “Farm use” in ORS 215.203,
preparation of products or by-products includes but is not limited to the cleaning,
treatment, sorting or packaging of farm products or by-products. [ORD. 18-02] [ORD.
25-16]

PRIMARY PROCESSING OF A FOREST PRODUCT -- The use of a portable chipper
or stud mill or other similar methods of initial treatment of a forest product in order to
enable its shipment to market.

PRINCIPAL USE -- The main use to which the land and buildings are devoted. [ORD
25-02]

PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND -- At least 51 percent of the actual cash value of the
structure, less land value, is above ground.

PRINCIPALLY ENGAGED IN FARM USE -- As it refers to primary farm dwellings and
accessory farm dwellings, a person is principally engaged in the farm use of the land

Clatsop County Land and Water I-42 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
when the amount of time that an occupant of the dwelling is engaged in farm use of the
property is similar to the average number of hours that is typically required for a full-
time employee of the relevant type of farm use, whether that person is employed off the
farm or not. Only one resident of a household need meet the “principally engaged” test,
or the test may be met collectively by more than one household member. [Ord. 18-02]

PRIVATE ROAD -- See Road, Private.

PROCESSED -- As it applies to farm stands, processed crops and livestock means
farm products that have been converted into other products through canning, drying,
baking, freezing, pressing, butchering or other similar means of adding value to the farm
product, including the addition of incidental ingredients, but not including the conversion
of farm products into food items that are prepared on-site or intended for on-site
consumption. [Ord. 18-02]

PROCESSING AREA – The floor area of a building dedicated to farm product
processing. “Processing area” does not include the floor area designated for
preparation, storage or other farm use. [ORD. 23-02]

PRODUCTS OR BY-PRODUCTS – As it applies to the definition of “Farm use” in ORS
215.203, ‘products or by-products” includes:
1) Products or by-products raised on the farm operation where the preparation
occurs
2) Products or by-products raised on other farm land, provided:
(A) The preparation is occurring only on a tract currently employed for a farm
use or farm uses other than preparation; and
(B) Such products or by-products are prepared in the same facilities as, and in
conjunction with, products or by-products raised on the farm operation
where the preparation occurs. [ORD. 25-16}

PROFESSION – A personal service or services rendered to the public which may only
be lawfully rendered pursuant to a license issued by the State of Oregon.

PROPERTY LINE ADJUSTMENT -- The relocation or elimination of all or a portion of
the common property line between abutting properties that does not create an additional
lot or parcel.

PSILOCYBIN – Psilocybin or psilocybin and related products. [ORD. 24-20]

PSILOCYBIN ADMINISTRATION SESSION – A session held at a psilocybin service
center at which a client purchases, consumes, and experiences the effects of a
psilocybin product under the supervision of a psilocybin service facilitator. [ORD. 24-20]

PSILOCYBIN FARM USE – The planting, cultivation, growing, preparation, propagation
and harvesting of psilocybin-producing fungi:
1) A crop for the purposes of farm use as defined in ORS 215.203;

Clatsop County Land and Water I-43 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
2) A crop for purposes of a farm and farming practice, both as defined in ORS
30.930;
3) A product of farm use as described in ORS 308A.062; and
4) The product of an agricultural activity for purposes of ORS 568.909.
5) The farm use may include packaging for shipment but shall not include the
manufacturing or processing of psilocybin products. [ORD. 24-20]

PSILOCYBIN LICENSEE – A person that holds a license issued under ORS 475A.290,
457A.305, 475A.325 or 457A.594. This may also include a “Licensee representative” as
defined in ORS 475A. [ORD. 24-20]

PSILOCYBIN PRESMISES – The following areas of a location licensed under ORS
475A.210 to 475A.722:
1) All public and private enclosed areas at the location that are used in the business
operated at the location, including offices, kitchens, rest rooms and storerooms;
2) All areas outside a building that the Oregon Health Authority has specifically
licensed for the manufacturing of psilocybin products or the operation of a
psilocybin service center; and
3) For a location that the Authority has specifically licensed for the operation of a
psilocybin service center outside a building, that portion of the location used to
operate the psilocybin service center and provide psilocybin services to clients.
[ORD. 24-20]

PSILOCYBIN MANUFACTURE – The manufacturing, production, compounding,
conversion or processing of a psilocybin product, either directly or indirectly by
extraction from substances of natural origin, or independently by means of chemical
synthesis, or by a combination of extraction and chemical synthesis, and includes any
packaging or repackaging of the psilocybin product or labeling or relabeling of its
container. [ORD. 24-20]

PSILOCYBIN PRODUCT MANUFACTURER – A person that manufactures psilocybin
products in this state. [ORD. 24-20]

PSILOCYBIN PRODUCTS – Psilocybin-producing fungi, mycelium and mixtures or
substances containing a detectable amount of psilocybin, including whole fungi,
psilocybin extract, and edible psilocybin products. [ORD. 24-20]

PSILOCYBIN SERVICE CENTER – An establishment where administration sessions
are held; and at which other psilocybin services may be provided. [ORD. 24-20]

PUBLIC ACCESS -- Public access to shoreline and aquatic areas either may be
achieved through:
1) direct physical access to shoreland and aquatic areas (i.e. boat ramps);
2) aesthetic access (i.e. viewing opportunities); and
3) other facilities providing some degree of access to shorelands and aquatic areas.

Clatsop County Land and Water I-44 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
PUBLIC GAIN -- The net gain from combined economic, social, and environmental
effects which accrue to the public because of a use or activity and its subsequent
resulting effects.

PUBLIC USE -- A structure or use intended or used for a public purpose by a city,
school district, county, state, or by any other public agency or by a public utility.

PUBLIC OR SEMI-PUBLIC USE -- A structure or use, owned or operated by a state,
county, city, school district or other public or private agency or concern for the benefit of
the public generally including schools, fire stations, libraries, community building,
museums, fairgrounds, and churches but does not include specific uses or structures
which are defined separately in this section. [ORD. 23-04]

PUBLIC UTILITY -- A private business or organization such as a public service
corporation, performing some public service and subject to special governmental
regulations, or a governmental agency performing similar public services, the service by
either of which are paid for directly by the recipients thereof. Such services shall
include, but are not limited to, water supply electric power, gas and transportation of
persons or freight.

QUASI-JUDICIAL HEARING/DECISION – A quasi-judicial hearing is a type of land use
proceeding in which the decision maker addresses a narrow land use issue, normally
related to one, or a limited number of parcels, and applies existing criteria. Quasi-
judicial cases include variances, conditional use permits and zone changes. [ORD 25-
02]

REACH -- A hydraulic engineering term used to describe longitudinal segments along a
stream or a river. A reach will generally include the segment of the flood hazard area
where flood heights are primarily controlled by man-made or natural obstructions or
constrictions. In an urban area an example of reach would be the segment of a stream
or river between two consecutive bridge crossings.

RECLAMATION -- The employment in a surface mining or mining operation or
procedures, reasonably designed to minimize as much as practicable the disruption
from the surface mining operation and to provide for the rehabilitation of any such
surface and resources adversely affected by such surface mining operations through
the rehabilitation of plant cover, soil stability, water resources, and other measures
appropriate to the subsequent beneficial use of such mined and reclaimed lands.

RECORD -- To submit instrumentation to, and have such instrumentation accepted by,
the Office of the County Clerk for the purpose of placing an instrumentation, or copies
thereof, in official plat evidence.

RECREATION COMPLEX – An outdoor facility that is used for non-professional sports.
It may consist of multiple sports fields. May include stadium seating, a fitness trail,
activity shelter, aquatic center, picnic ground, basketball and tennis courts, playground,

Clatsop County Land and Water I-45 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
and driving ranges. [ORD.23-07]

RECREATION, HIGH INTENSITY -- Uses involving specially built facilities, or occurring
in such density or form that is requires or results in a modification of the area or
resource.
Campgrounds, golf courses, public beaches, and marinas are examples of facilities for
high intensity recreation.

RECREATION, LOW INTENSITY -- Recreation that does not require developed
facilities and can be accommodated without change to the area or resource. For
example, boating, hunting, hiking, wildlife photography, and beach or shore activities
can be low intensity recreation. Facilities included as low-intensity recreation include
picnic tables, trail signs, unpaved trails and portable restrooms.

RECREATIONAL VEHICLE – A vehicle with or without motive power that is designed
for use as temporary living quarters and as further defined by rule by the Director of
Transportation. Recreational Vehicle includes the following terms: [ORD 25-02]
1) CAMPER - A structure containing a floor that is designed to be temporarily
mounted upon a motor vehicle, and which is designed to provide facilities for
temporary human habitation.
2) MOTOR HOME - A motor vehicle with a permanently attached camper, or that is
originally designed, reconstructed or permanently altered to provide facilities for
temporary human habitation.
3) TRAVEL TRAILER - A trailer that is capable of being used for temporary human
habitation, which is not more than eight feet wide, and except in the case of a
tent trailer, has four permanent walls when it is in the usual travel position.
4) SELF-CONTAINED RECREATIONAL VEHICLE - A vehicle that contains a
factory-equipped, on board system for the storage and disposal of gray water
and sewage.

RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK -- An area of ground upon which two or more
recreational vehicles are located, established or maintained for occupancy by
recreational vehicles of the general public as temporary living quarters for recreational,
education or vacation purposes.

RECYCLING CENTER -- A center for the receiving and storage of recyclable materials
such as paper, glass and aluminum. The center would receive materials from the
general public. This use may involve some outside storage.

REHABILITATION -- Infrequent, extensive repair of more than routine nature to existing
structures or facilities which are in current use or operation.

RELATIVE -- A spouse, child, stepchild, parent, stepparent, grandchild, grandparent,
stepgrandparent, sibling, stepsibling, aunt, uncle, niece, nephew or first cousin of the
farm operator or the farm operator’s spouse. [Ord. 18-02]

Clatsop County Land and Water I-46 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION OR ASSEMBLY – A building or other development used for
a faith-based organization such as a church, mosque, temple or synagogue; together
with its accessory uses and buildings, including but not limited to child care centers,
offices, schools and living quarters for caretakers or religious leaders. [ORD. 23-07]

REMEDIAL DUNE GRADING - Grading that is undertaken on an active dune in order to
protect existing improvements from the effects of wind-borne sand. The grading is
intended to remedy the effect of sand inundation that has already occurred.

RENTAL, SHORT-TERM -- A dwelling unit that is rented to any person or entity for a
period of up to thirty (30) consecutive nights.

RENTED -- The use and possession of a residence is granted to one or more persons
in exchange for consideration valued in money, goods, labor, credits, property or other
consideration valued in money, without any deduction.

REPLAT -- The act of platting the lots, parcels and easements in a recorded subdivision
or partition plat to achieve a reconfiguration of the existing subdivision or partition plat or
to increase or decrease the number of lots in the subdivision.

RESERVE STRIP -- A strip of land one (1) foot in width which may overlay the outer
one (1) foot of any public road right-of-way and over which authority is reserved to the
Board specifically for the control of access to adjacent lands. Such control remains in
effect until a plan for logical development of adjacent lands is accepted by the County or
until adjacent right-of-way is accepted by the County for the continuation or widening of
the street.

RESIDENTIAL FACILITY – A facility licensed by or under the authority of the State of
Oregon, which provides residential care alone or in conjunction with treatment or
training or a combination thereof for six (6) to fifteen (15) individuals who need not be
related. Staff persons required to meet State of Oregon licensing requirements shall not
be counted in the number of facility residents, and need not be related to each other or
to any resident of the residential facility. [ORD. 24-14]

RESIDENTIAL HOME – A home licensed by or under the authority of the State of
Oregon, which provides residential care alone or in conjunction with treatment or
training or a combination thereof for five (5) or fewer individuals who need not be
related. Staff persons required to meet State of Oregon licensing requirements shall not
be counted in the number of facility residents, and need not be related to each other or
to any resident of the residential home. [ORD. 24-14]

RESORT -- Any area of land or water used for open land commercial or private
recreation where overnight lodging, meals and related tourist services are provided in
conjunction with such recreational use.

RESOURCE ZONES -- The following zones shall be considered resource zones: EFU,

Clatsop County Land and Water I-47 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
AF, F- 80, OPR, RM, LW, AN, AC-1, AC-2, NU, QM, NS, CS, NAC-1, NAC-2, EAC.

RESTAURANT, CASUAL – Sit-down, full-service eating establishments. Generally,
these restaurants serve lunch and dinner; they may also be open for breakfast and are
sometimes open 24 hours a day. These restaurants typically do not accept reservations.
Some facilities may also contain a lounge or bar are for serving food and alcoholic
drinks. [ORD. 23-07]

RESTAURANT, FAST FOOD, WITH DRIVE-THRU – A restaurant characterized by a
drive-through and carry-out clientele, long hours of service (some are open for
breakfast, all are open for lunch and dinner, some are open late at night or 24 hours a
day) and high turnover rates for eat-in customers. These limited-service eating
establishments do not provide table service. A patron generally orders from a menu
board and pays before receiving the meal. [ORD. 23-07]

RESTAURANT, FAST FOOD, WITHOUT DRIVE-THRU – A restaurant characterized by
a carry-out clientele, and high turnover rates for eat-in customers. These limited-service
eating establishments do not provide table service. A patron generally orders from a
menu board and pays before receiving the meal. [ORD. 23-07]

RESTAURANT, FINE DINING – Full-service restaurant characterized by duration of
stay of at least one hour. These types of restaurants generally do not serve breakfast;
some do not serve lunch; all serve dinner. A patron commonly waits to be seated, is
served by wait staff, orders from a menu and pays after the meal. Some fine dining
restaurants have a lounge or bar facilities for serving alcoholic beverages, but they are
ancillary to the restaurant. [ORD. 23-07]

RESTORATION -- Revitalizing, returning or replacing attributes and amenities such as
natural biological productivity and aesthetic or cultural resources which have been
diminished or lost by past alterations, activities or catastrophic events. For the purpose
of Oregon Statewide Planning Goal 16, estuarine restoration means to revitalize or
reestablish functional characteristics and processes of the estuary diminished or lost by
past alterations, activities, or catastrophic events. A restored area must be a shallow
subtidal or an intertidal or tidal marsh area after alteration work is performed, and may
not have been a functioning part of the estuarine system when alteration work began.

Active restoration involves the use of specific remedial actions such as removing
dikes or fills, installing water treatment facilities, or rebuilding or removing
deteriorated urban waterfront areas or returning diked areas to tidal influence.

Passive restoration is the use of natural processes, sequences, and timing which
occurs after the removal or reduction of adverse stresses without other specific
positive remedial action.

RESTORATION AS MITIGATION -- For the purposes of Statewide Planning Goal 16
estuarine restoration means to revitalize or reestablish functional characteristics and

Clatsop County Land and Water I-48 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
processes of the estuary diminished or lost by past alterations, activities, or catastrophic
events. A restored area must be a shallow subtidal or an intertidal or tidal marsh area
after alteration work is performed, and may not have been a functioning part of the
estuarine system when alteration work began.

RETAIL, DISCOUNT SUPERSTORE OR CLUB – A discount club is a discount store or
warehouse where shoppers pay a membership fee in order to take advantage of
discount prices on a wide variety of items such as food, clothing, tires, and appliances;
many items are sold in large quantities or bulk. Some sites may include on-site fueling
pumps. [ORD. 23-07]

RETAIL, GROCERY – Retail store selling a complete assortment of food, food
preparation and wrapping materials, and housing cleaning items. [ORD. 23-07]

RETAIL, HOME IMPROVEMENT SUPERSTORES – A free-standing facility that
specializes in the sale of home improvement merchandise. Examples of items sold in
these stores include lumber, tools, paint, lighting, wallpaper and paneling, kitchen and
bathroom fixtures, lawn equipment, and plant and garden accessories. [ORD. 23-07]

RETAIL SALES – In-person sales of items for a customer’s personal use but does not
include the sale of a seasonal use manufactured on the premises in Residential
Agriculture (i.e. RA-1, RA-2, RA-5, RA-10) or resource zone (i.e. EFU, AF, F-80).

RIPARIAN -- Of, pertaining to, or situated on the edge of the bank of a river or other
body of water.

RIPRAP -- A layer, facing, or protective mound of stones randomly placed to prevent
erosion, scour or sloughing of a structure or embankment; also, the stone so used. In
local usage, the similar use of other hard material, such as concrete rubble, is also
frequently included as riprap.

ROAD – A public or private way created to provide ingress to, or egress from, one or
more lots, parcels, areas or tracts of land, or that provides for travel between places by
vehicles. A private way created in compliance with OAR 629-625 (Forest Practices Act)
is not a “road.” The terms “street,” “access drive”, “lane”, “avenue” and “highway” for the
purposes of this Ordinance shall be synonymous with the term “road.”  [ORD 25-02]

ROAD CLASSIFICATION – For the purposes of this Ordinance, public, private, County
and State roads are classified as follows: [ORD 25-02]
1) Principal Arterial: These roads serve urbanized areas, provide a high degree of
mobility and provide mobility through rural areas. Principal arterials serve
abutting land uses. All state highways are classified as Principal Arterials
2) Minor Arterial: Minor arterials provide service for trips of moderate length and
serve geographic areas that are smaller than those served by principal arterials.
Examples of minor arterial roads include a portion of Westport Ferry Road from
the ferry terminal to the railroad crossing.

Clatsop County Land and Water I-49 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
3) Major Collector: Major collectors provide service to traffic generators within the
county, such as schools and county parks and link these places with nearby
cities. Examples of major collector roads include Lewis and Clark Road, Logan
Road, Fort Clatsop Road, Youngs River Road, Hamlet Road, Ridge Road,
Svensen Market Road, Walluski Loop and Hillcrest Loop.
4) Minor Collector: Minor collector roads collect traffic from local roads and provide
service to smaller unincorporated communities not served by a higher
classification road.  Minor collector roads link traffic generators to rural areas.
Examples of minor collector roads include Tucker Creek Lane, Koppisch Road,
Brownsmead Hill Road, Aldrich Point Road, Clifton Road, Sunset Beach Lane,
and Dellmoor Loop.
5) Local: Local roads primarily provide access to adjacent land.  Trips are generally
shorter distances compared to trips on a higher classification road. Examples of
local roads include Maki Road, Anderson Lane, E. Shingle Mill Lane, Ray Brown
Road, Beerman Creek Lane, Burnside Loop, and Claremont Road.

ROAD, COUNTY – A way within a dedicated public right-of-way which has been
formally accepted by the Board of County Commissioners for access and vehicular
circulation purposes and which is maintained by the county. [ORD 25-02]

ROAD, CUL-DE-SAC – A street having only one outlet for vehicular traffic and a
turnaround at the opposite end. A cul-de-sac is not to be extended or continued to serve
future subdivision or development on adjacent lands. [ORD 25-02]

ROAD, FRONTAGE – A street which is parallel and adjacent to a principal or minor
arterial road, and which provides access to abutting properties while separating those
properties from the adjacent arterial road. [ORD 25-02]

ROAD, PRIVATE – A way within a private road easement that is intended to provide
access from a state, county, or public road to one or more lots, parcels, areas or tracts
of land and which is maintained by private funds for the exclusive use of private parties.
[ORD 25-02]

ROAD, PUBLIC – A way dedicated or deeded for public use, but not accepted into the
County road maintenance system. [ORD 25-02]

ROAD, STATE -- An improved travel surface placed within a dedicated public right-of-
way which is maintained by the State of Oregon. [ORD 25-02]

ROOMING HOUSE -- See “Boarding House.” [ORD 25-02]

SAND DUNES -- The accumulation of sand in ridges or mounds, usually by natural
means, landward of the beach.

SCHOOL, ELEMENTARY – Typically serves students attending kindergarten through
fifth or sixth grades. [ORD. 23-07]

Clatsop County Land and Water I-50 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS

SCHOOL, HIGH – A public or private high school serves students who have completed
middle school, typically services ninth grade through twelfth grade. [ORD. 23-07]

SCHOOL, MIDDLE – A middle school serves students who have completed elementary
school and have not yet entered high school. [ORD. 23-07]

SEASONAL FARMWORKER HOUSING -- Housing limited to occupancy by seasonal
farmworkers and their immediate families which is occupied no more than nine months
a year. For purposes of this definition, “nine months” means 273 days within any
calendar year.

SEASONAL USE – A use carried on for only a part of the year during a designated
season, such as the spring, summer, the fall or the winter months.

SENIOR HOUSING, ASSISTED LIVING – An assisted living complex is a residential
setting that provides either routine general protective oversight or assistance with
activities necessary for independent living to mentally or physically limited persons. It
commonly has separate living quarters for residents. Its centralized services typically
include dining, housekeeping, social and physical activities, medication administration,
and communal transportation. Alzheimer’s and ALS care are commonly offered by
these facilities, though the living quarters for these patients may be located separately
from the other residents. Assisted care commonly bridges the gap between independent
living and nursing homes. Staff may be available at an assisted care facility 24 hours a
day, but skilled medical care – which is limited in nature – is not required. [ORD. 23-07]

SENSITIVE USE -- A conflicting use or structure considered sensitive to dust, odor,
vibration, and/or noise, including an office, business, residence, school, park, church or
hospital. Industrial, agricultural and forestry activities are not sensitive uses unless the
activity includes an accessory residential use.

SHALLOW WATER PLACEMENT – A dredge material disposal site that initially
contains an area that is generally shallower than -20 feet Columbia River Datum (CRD).
The intent of in-water shallow placement is to transform areas that are open water now
into areas that are shallower submerged or tidally or seasonally inundated to improve
habitat complexity. [ORD. 25-05]

SHARED USE PATH:  A facility for non-motorized access conforming to County
standards and separated from the roadway, either in the roadway right-of-way,
independent public right-of-way, or a public access easement. It is designed and
constructed to allow for safe walking, biking, and other human-powered travel modes.

SHORELINE -- The boundary between a body of water and the land, measured on tidal
waters at the landward limit of aquatic vegetation or, where aquatic vegetation is
absent, Mean Higher High Water; and on non-tidal waterways at the ordinary high water
mark.

Clatsop County Land and Water I-51 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS

SHORELINE PLACEMENT – A dredge material disposal area in the Columbia River
Estuary where dredged material could be placed in water below ordinary high water
(OHW). These sites are completely or periodically inundated in water and are then filled
with dredged material to create land above OHW. [ORD. 25-05]

SHORELINE STABILIZATION -- The protection from erosion and sloughing of ocean
and estuary shorelines and the banks of tidal or non-tidal streams, rivers or lakes by
vegetative or structural means. Vegetative shoreline stabilization is the use of lands that
anchor the soil to prevent shoreline erosion and sloughing. Structural shoreline
stabilization is the use of riprap, bulkheads, sea walls, or other non-vegetative material
to prevent shoreline erosion.

SIGN -- Any letter, figures, symbols, or designs which are intended to convey a
message or to attract the attention of a person on a public street.

SIGN, FLASHING -- Any illuminated sign on which the artificial light is not maintained
stationary and/or constant in intensity and color at all times when such sign is in use.
For the purpose of this ordinance, any moving, illuminated sign shall be considered a
flashing sign.

SIGNIFICANT AREAS -- An area of more than local significance; so designated
because it possesses important natural, scientific, historical, cultural and/or
archaeological resources.

SIGNIFICANT SHORELAND RESOURCES -- Are described in subarea plans, and are
included in the Coastal Shorelands boundaries. Significant shoreland resources include
significant non-tidal wetlands, significant shoreland fish and wildlife habitat, significant
riparian vegetation, exceptional aesthetic resources and coastal headlands.

SOLAR ACCESS -- The exposure of a building to the sun which enables such building
to obtain south-facing surface area exposure, in excess of 50% on the date of the winter
solstice, adequate for solar space heating or water heating purposes.

SOLID WASTE -- All putrescible and non-putrescible wastes including but not limited to
garbage, rubbish, refuse, ashes, waste paper and cardboard; sewage sludge, septic
tank and cesspool plumbing and other sludge; commercial, industrial demolition and
construction wastes, discarded or abandoned vehicles or parts thereof; discarded home
and industrial appliances; manure, vegetable or animal solid and semi-solid wastes,
dead animals and other wastes; but the term does not include:
1) Environmentally hazardous wastes as defined in Ordinance 72-3, pertaining to
Solid Waste Nuisance Abatement.
2) Materials used for fertilizer for other productive purposes or which are
salvageable as such materials are used on land in agricultural operations and the
growing or harvesting of crops and raising of fowl or animals.

Clatsop County Land and Water I-52 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
SOLID WASTE TRANSFER STATION -- This use would involve the transfer of solid
waste materials from route collection trucks to larger capacity semi-trailers for transport
to a solid waste disposal site. The transfer activities would be conducted entirely within
an enclosed structure. The use may involve a service area for the repair and
maintenance of trucks and an outside parking area for trucks.

SPECIALITY TRADE CONTRACTOR – A business primarily involved in providing
contract repairs and services to meet industrial or residential needs. Included
businesses may include: plumbing, heating and cooling, machine repair, electrical and
mechanical repair, industrial supply, roofing, locksmith, weed and pest control, and
cleaning. [ORD.23 -07]

STABILIZATION -- The process of controlling soil or sand activity (i.e. stilling the
movement of sand and eroding soil) by natural vegetative growth, planting of grasses
and shrubs, or mechanical means (e.g. wire net, fencing).

STADIUM/EVENT CENTER – A large indoor/outdoor facility in which spectator events
are held. These events may include professional or amateur sports or non-sporting
events such as concerts, shows, or religious services. [ORD. 23-07]

START OF CONSTRUCTION –
1) For a structure other than a mobile home "start of construction" means the first
placement of permanent construction on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings or any work beyond the state of excavation. Permanent construction
does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading or filling; nor does it
include the installation of streets and/or walkways; not does it include the
excavation for a basement; footing, piers or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory
buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not as part
of the main structure. For a structure without a basement or poured footings, the
"start of construction" includes the first permanent framing or assembly of the
structure or any part thereof on its piling or foundation.
2) For mobile homes not within a mobile home park/subdivision "start of
construction" means the placing of the mobile home on the property.
3) For mobile homes within mobile home park/subdivision "start of construction"
means the date on which the construction of facilities for servicing the site on
which the mobile home is to be affixed (including at a minimum, the construction
of streets, either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads, and the
installation of utilities) is completed.

STATE ROAD -- See Road, State.

STORAGE -- To keep for future use. Placement of a structure, excluding mobile homes,
RVs and trailers in residential zones in which valued possessions are kept for use at a
future date.

Clatsop County Land and Water I-53 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
STORAGE STRUCTURES FOR EMERGENCY SUPPLIES -- Structures to
accommodate those goods, materials and equipment required to meet the essential and
immediate needs of an affected population in a disaster. Such supplies include food,
clothing, temporary shelter materials, durable medical goods and pharmaceuticals,
electric generators, water purification gear, communication equipment, tools and other
similar emergency supplies.

STRUCTURE -- Anything constructed, erected or air-inflated, permanent or temporary,
which requires location on the ground or water, or attached to an existing structure.
Among other things, structure includes residences, apartments, barns, cabins,
buildings, walls, fences, billboards, poster panels, food stands and parking lots. [Ord.
18-02]

SUBDIVIDE LAND -- To divide an area or tract of land into four or more lots within a
calendar year. [ORD 25-02]

SUBDIVIDER -- Any person who undertakes the subdivision of land for the purpose of
ownership or development at any time, whether immediate or future.

SUBDIVISION -- Either an act of subdividing land or an area or tract of land subdivided.
[ORD 25-02]

SUBMERGED LANDS -- Lands lying below the line of Mean Low Water in tidal areas
and the line of Ordinary Low Water in non-tidal areas.

SUBMERSIBLE LANDS -- Land lying between Extreme Low Water and Extreme High
Water.

SUBSTANTIAL CONSTRUCTION – Any development-related activity (site preparation
or construction activities), including any combination of development, building, or septic
permits, septic construction, clearing, grading, excavation or other earthwork, road
construction, utility placement, surveying, engineering and architectural design, that has
been met prior to the expiration of the specific development permit as outlined below:

Substantial construction shall be defined to have occurred for construction when any of
the following have been met prior to the expiration of the specific development permit:
1) Building, development and septic permits have been obtained and a foundation
completed for a conventionally built dwelling; or
2) Substantial construction, as defined above, has been completed at a cost in
excess of 10% of the construction value of the proposed structure as determined
by Uniformed Building Code calculations. Documentation of the cost of
improvements for the dwelling shall be in writing (i.e., receipts, canceled checks,
etc.) and shall be submitted to the Community Development Department with a
time schedule of the activities/expenditures.

SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT -- Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a

Clatsop County Land and Water I-54 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of
the structure either:
1) Before the improvement or repair is started, or
2) If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the damage
occurred.

For the purpose of this definition, substantial improvement is considered to occur when
the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building
commences, whether or not the alteration affects the external dimensions of the
building. The term does not, however, include:
1) Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or local
health, sanitary or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions, or
2) Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of Historical Places or
a State Inventory of Historic Places.

SUBTIDAL -- Below the level of mean lower low tide. In the Columbia River Estuary this
is generally three (3) feet below mean lower low water.

SUMP DREDGED MATERIAL DISPOSAL, IN-WATER -- Deposition of dredged
materials in a temporary in-water holding area and subsequently rehandling the material
to place it on a land disposal site.

SURVEY AND MONUMENT -- To locate and monument the boundaries of a
subdivision lot, partition parcel, road right-of-way or road easement. A survey shall be
completed by a state licensed surveyor and be in compliance with ORS 92 and 209,
such that the error of closure shall not exceed one foot in 5,000 feet. At a minimum, the
corners of all parcels and the boundaries of all roads which are created or easements
which are utilized shall be monumented. Points shall be monumented along road
boundaries at the point of beginning, at road intersections and where the boundary line
changes direction. If a cul-de-sac is proposed, the center of the cul-de-sac shall be
monumented. (Ord. 21-05)

TEMPORARY ESTUARINE ALTERATION -- Dredging, filling, or other estuarine
alteration occurring over a specified short period of time which is needed to facilitate an
allowed use. Temporary alterations may not be for more than three years and the
affected area must be restored to its previous condition. Temporary alterations include:
(1) alterations necessary for disposal sites by barge or pipeline and staging areas or
dredging for jetty maintenance, (2) alterations to establish mitigation sites, alterations for
bridge construction or repair and for drilling or other explanatory operations, and (3)
minor structures (such as blinds) necessary for research and educational observation.

TEMPORARY STRUCTURE – Includes tents, trailers, chemical toilet facilities and other
structures customarily erected or sited for temporary use. [ORD.23-02]

TEMPORARY USE -- A non-permanent use or activity involving minimal capital

Clatsop County Land and Water I-55 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
investment that does not result in the permanent alteration of the site and is removed
from the site within one year. [Ord. 18-02] [ORD 25-02]

THALWEG – An expanded area contiguous to the Federal Navigation Channel that
occurs at the 20-foot depth contour, or deeper. [ORD. 24-18]

THEATER – A structure that is used for dramatic, motion pictures, or other
performances for admission to which entrance money is collected. [ORD. 23-07]

TIDAL MARSH -- Tidal wetlands vegetated with emergent vascular plants lying between
extreme low tide and landward limit of aquatic vegetation.

TIDEGATE – A device placed in a dike or dam that allows the passage of water through
a culvert in a single direction.

TOWNHOUSE – A dwelling unit that is part of a row of two or more attached dwelling
units, where each unit is located on an individual lot or parcel and shares at least one
common wall with an adjacent dwelling unit. [ORD 25-02]

TOXIC MATERIALS -- A substance (liquid, solid, or gaseous) which by reason of an
inherent deleterious property tends to destroy life or impair health.

TRACT OF LAND -- One or more contiguous lots or parcels under the same ownership,
as defined in ORS 215.010(2). [Ord. 18-02]

TRANSFER SITE – Sites that are in-water holding areas created for temporary storage
of dredged material. [ORD. 25-05]

TRANSIENT LODGING – Any hotel, motel, inn, lodge, or resort intended to be used for
transient persons or tourists for overnight lodging, or longer. Transient lodging includes
customary accessory uses that are subordinate to the primary use including gift shops,
restaurants or swimming pools. Transient lodging does not include spaces used for
parking recreational vehicles, bed and breakfast establishment or test or short-term
rental units. [ORD. 23-07]

TRANSMISSION LINES – Lines designated to move bulk energy products from where
they are produced, generated or stored in bulk to distribution lines that carry the energy
products to consumers.

TREE -- any woody plant having at least one well-defined stem at least six inches in
diameter measured at a height of four and one-half feet above the natural grade.

TRUCKING TERMINAL – An intermodal truck terminal facility where goods are
transferred between trucks and/or between trucks and other modes of transport,
including but not limited to railroads and/or parks. [ORD. 23-01]

Clatsop County Land and Water I-56 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
USE -- See Development.

UTILITIES -- Local sewer, water, gas, telephone and power distribution lines necessary
for local utility service. Included in this definition are uses needed to operate
transmission and distribution lines including pumping stations, repeater stations, and
water storage tanks.

UTILITIES NECESSARY FOR PUBLIC SERVICE -- Unless otherwise specified in this
Article/Chapter, any facility owned or operated by a public, private or cooperative
company for the transmission, distribution or processing of its products or for the
disposal of cooling water, waste or by-products, and including, major trunk pipelines,
water towers , sewage lagoons, cell towers, electrical transmission facilities (except
transmission towers over 200’ in height) including substations not associated with a
commercial power generating facilities and other similar facilities. [Ord. 18-02]

UTILITY – A free-standing building that can house office space, a storage area, and
equipment that supports a local electrical, communication , water supply or control, or
sewage treatment utility. [ORD. 23-07]

VARIANCE -- A grant of relief to a person from the quantifiable standards of this
ordinance in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited. “Variance” does not include
grants of relief from standards regulating uses or density. [ORD. 26-05]

VARIANCE, ADMINISTRATIVE – A minor deviation from an established dimensional
standard that complies with Section 2.8030. [ORD. 26-05]

VEGETATIVE HEDGE – One or more species of shrubs or trees, growing or planted
along a line to create a dense boundary to buffer adjacent property or to screen out
objectionable views.  [Ord. 18-02]

VEHICLE – Any device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn and includes vehicles that are propelled or powered by any
means.

VETERINARY CLINIC -- Any building or portion thereof designed or used for the care,
observation or treatment of animals.

WAREHOUSE -- A structure or part of a structure, for storing goods, wares, and
merchandise, whether for the owner or for others, and whether it is a public or private
warehouse.

WATER-DEPENDENT -- A use or use and activity which can only be carried out on, in
or adjacent to water areas because the use requires access to the waterbody for water-
borne transportation, recreation, energy production, or source of water.

WATER-ORIENTED -- A use whose attraction to the public is enhanced by a view or

Clatsop County Land and Water I-57 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
access to coastal waters.

WATER-RELATED -- Uses which are not directly dependent upon access to a water
body, but which provide goods or services that are directly associated with water-
dependent land or waterways, and which, if not located adjacent to water, would result
in a public loss of quality in the goods or services offered. Except as necessary for
water-dependent or water-related uses or facilities, residences, parking lots, spoil and
dump sites, roads and highways, restaurants, businesses, factories, and trailer parks
are not generally considered dependent on or related to water location needs.

WATER SUPPLY, POTABLE -- A water source that complies with appropriate state
agency regulations as to quality and quantity.

WETLAND CREATION -- Alteration, by excavation or other means, of upland areas to
allow local hydrologic conditions to convert soils and vegetation to hydric character.

WETLAND ENHANCEMENT -- An action which results in a long term improvement of
existing wetland functional characteristics and processes that is not the result of a
creation of restoration action.

WETLANDS -- Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or ground water
at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances
do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil
conditions.

WETLANDS, SIGNIFICANT NON-TIDAL -- Non-tidal wetlands described as significant
in Coastal Shorelands boundary descriptions or protected by the County's Goal 5
element.

WINDMILL -- A structure designed to generate power or pump water through the action
of wind on vanes or sails (see 3.0170).

WINERY -- A facility that produces wine with a maximum annual production of:
1) Less than 50,000 gallons and that:
(A) owns an on-site vineyard of at least 15 acres;
(B) owns a contiguous vineyard of at least 15 acres;
(C) has a long-term contract for the purchase of all of the grapes from at least
15 acres of a vineyard contiguous to the winery; or
(D) obtains grapes from any combination of subparagraph (A), (B) or (C) of
this paragraph; or
2) At least 50,000 gallons and no more than 100,000 gallons and that:
(A) owns an on-site vineyard of at least 40 acres;
(B) owns a contiguous vineyard of at least 40 acres;
(C) has a long-term contract for the purchase of all of the grapes from at least
40 acres of a vineyard contiguous to the winery; or

Clatsop County Land and Water I-58 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
(D) obtains grapes from any combination of subparagraph (A), (B) or (C) of
this paragraph.

YARD -- A required area of land unoccupied and unobstructed by any structure 30
inches or more above the ground level, with the exception of fences,
walkways/staircases, retaining walls, poles, posts customary yard accessories,
appurtenances, ornaments, furniture and accessory structures or uses permitted subject
to the provisions of this code. [ORD 25-02]

YARD, FRONT – A yard between the front line of the
main building (exclusive of steps) and the front
property line.

YARD, OCEAN – A distance measured horizontally
and at a right angle from the Statutory Vegetation
Line established and described by ORS 390770 to
the nearest point of a building. An ocean yard may
be a front yard, rear yard, or a side yard. [ORD 25-
02]

YARD, REAR – A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the primary

Clatsop County Land and Water I-59 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
building and the nearest point of the rear lot line. [ORD 25-02]

YARD, SIDE -- An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with the primary building,
between the side wall line of the primary building and the side line of the lot. [ORD 25-
02]

YARD, STREET SIDE -- A yard adjacent to a street between the front yard and the rear
lot line measured horizontally and at right angles from the side lot line to the nearest
point of the building.

YOUTH CAMP -- A facility either owned or leased, and operated by a state or local
government, or a nonprofit corporation as defined under ORS 65.001, to provide an

Clatsop County Land and Water I-60 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
outdoor recreational and educational experience primarily for the benefit of persons 21
years of age and younger. Youth camps do not include any manner of juvenile detention
center or juvenile detention facility. [Ord. 18-02]

Clatsop County Land and Water I-61 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
SECTION 1.1000. GENERAL PROVISIONS
1.1010. Basic Characteristics of a Residential Site
Except as otherwise provided by 1.1020, a lot or parcel to be developed for residential
use shall comply with the following:
1) In a location that will not be served by a public sewer, a lot or parcel shall have
sufficient size to permit compliance with the requirements of the Department of
Environmental Quality for sewage disposal by septic tank and drain field or other
alternative system and permit continued reliance on that method of sewage
disposal. If the location will not be served by a community water system, a lot or
parcel shall have sufficient additional size to permit an on-site water supply for
each lot or parcel without conflict between water supply and sewage disposal
facilities.
2) In a location that will be served by public or private sewer, the standards of each
zone shall apply.

1.1020 General Exception to Lot Size Standards
1) A lot of record with an area or dimension which does not meet the requirements
of the zone may be developed as allowed by the zone subject to all other
applicable county development standards and requirements, provided the lot of
record:
(A) Is located within a Rural Community or residential zone that has a
minimum lot size standard of one (1) acre or greater; and,
(B) Is located in an area for which an exception to Goal 3 or Goal 4 has been
acknowledged; and,
(C) Does not abut Camp Rilea.
2) In all other areas:
(A) If, at the time the applicable zone or an amendment to the applicable lot
size or dimension standards was adopted, a lot of record has an area or
dimension that does not meet the requirements of the zone, and the lot of
record was not in the same ownership with a contiguous lot or parcel
which does not meet the minimum area or dimension requirements, the lot
of record may be developed as allowed by the applicable zone and county
development standards.
(B) If, at the time the applicable zone or an amendment to the applicable lot
size or dimension standards was adopted, a lot of record has an area or
dimension that does not meet the requirements of the zone, and the lot or
parcel was in the same ownership as any contiguous lots or parcels which
do not meet the minimum area or dimension  requirements, the
contiguous properties constitute one land use lot of record that may be
developed as allowed by the applicable zone and county development
standards.

Section 1.1030. Rules of Construction
Unlisted words and phrases: The definition of any word or phrase not listed in this
chapter which is in question when administering this Ordinance shall be defined from
one of the following sources. The sources shall be consulted in the order listed.

Clatsop County Land and Water I-62 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
1) Clatsop County Comprehensive Plan.
2) Any other Clatsop County resolution, Ordinance, codes or regulation.
3) Any statute or regulation of the State of Oregon (including the Uniform Building
Code and LCDC Goals and Guidelines).
4) Legal definition from case law or law dictionary.

Section 1.1040. Scope and Compliance
1) The provisions of this Ordinance shall apply to all unincorporated areas of
Clatsop County, Oregon which are not within the urban growth boundary of an
incorporated city or town. The procedural provisions of this ordinance will
continue to be utilized for unincorporated areas within urban growth boundaries.
2) A parcel of land or water area may be used, developed by land division or
otherwise, and a structure may be used or developed by construction,
reconstruction, alteration, occupancy or otherwise only as this Ordinance
permits.
3) A development may be used only for a lawful use. A lawful use is one that is not
prohibited by law and for which the development is designed, arranged and
intended or which is non-conforming (See Section 3.1000 Nonconforming uses
and structures).
4) In addition to complying with the criteria and other provisions within this
Ordinance, each development shall comply with the applicable standards set
forth in County Development and Use Standards Document.
5) The requirements of this Ordinance apply to the person undertaking a
development or the user of a development and to the person's successors in
interest. [ORD 25-02]

Section 1.1050. Consistency with Comprehensive Plan
Actions initiated under this Ordinance shall be consistent with the Clatsop County
Comprehensive Plan as adopted or hereafter amended. Where a provision of this
Ordinance is in conflict with the Comprehensive Plan, the Comprehensive Plan shall
apply. A provision of this Ordinance that is in addition to another requirement is not in
conflict.

Section 1.1060. Authorization of Similar Development
If development that has been referred to a hearing body by the Director for evaluation
under the Type III procedure is found comparable to development that is allowed in an
area under the Type I or II procedure, the hearing body may rule that future
development of the same kind shall be approved under the Type I or II procedure in the
specified district or zone. To make such a ruling, the hearing body shall do the following:
1) Make a determination as part of a Type III decision in conjunction with approval
of a development that is substantially the same as an earlier development
approved under the Type III procedure.

Clatsop County Land and Water I-63 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
2) Determine that the development is comparable to other development allowed in
the area by either the Type I or II procedure. Similarity can be based on
compliance with plan policy and standards, if appropriate within the context of the
requirements for the area and type of development, as well as on language
interpretation similarity.
3) If approval and classification as a Type I or II development is dependent upon
compliance with standards beyond those contained in the Development and Use
Standards Document, prepare and add to the standards document the
appropriate standards to be applicable to all future development.
4) Report the determination to the Board of Commissioners at least thirty (30) days
prior to the effective date of the ruling. The ruling will not become effective if the
Board of Commissioners moves to have the matter addressed as an Ordinance
amendment.

Section 1.1070. Maintenance of Ordinance Requirements
No lot area (except as may be permitted under a lot line adjustment), yard, or other
open space, required off-street parking or loading area or other site condition existing
on or after the effective date of this Ordinance shall be reduced in area, dimension or
size below the minimum required by this Ordinance, nor shall any site condition which is
required by this Ordinance for one development be used to meet a requirement for any
other development except as authorized.

Section 1.1080. Access
Every lot shall abut a street, other than an alley, for at least twenty-five (25) feet. Lots
which were created prior to adoption of Ordinance No. 66-2 which do not meet this
provision may be built on if it is determined by the Community Development Director
under a Type I procedure that:
1) Access to be provided is adequate to handle the types and amount of traffic
expected for the use.
2) Access width is adequate for fire protection vehicles.

Section 1.1090. Bond or Cash Deposit
Before issuing or renewing a development permit when the applicant has an obligation
to construct or improve public facilities to serve the development and use or to reclaim
land such as that due to surface mining operations or to fulfill requirements for
revegetation, or for any development and use that the Community Development
Director, Planning Commission or Board of Commissioners deem necessary, the
obligation shall either be fulfilled prior to the issuance of the development permit or the
applicant shall be required to file with the County Clerk and acknowledgment of
obligation. The acknowledgment shall contain the time within which it is to be met and a
surety bond or cash or negotiable security deposit sufficient to cover the cost of the
work as estimated by the County Engineer for the year fulfillment of the obligation is
anticipated. The bond shall be conditioned upon the permittee carrying out the
obligation and fulfilling the other requirements of this Ordinance that bear on the
approval of the development. The deposit or bond shall be forfeited to the County if the
permittee does not fulfill the requirements. The bond or deposit shall remain in the

Clatsop County Land and Water I-64 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
custody of the County until the obligation is completed or the bond or deposit is
forfeited, or shall be placed in an escrow account subject to County control.

Section 1.1100. Non-Compliance with Provisions Under Obligation
1) If the Director finds that a permittee is not fulfilling an obligation, the Director
shall, in written notice to the permittee and the permittee's surety, specify the
details of non- compliance. Unless the Director allows more time for compliance
because of circumstances beyond the permittee's control, within thirty (30) days
after receiving the notice, the permittee or the permittee's surety shall commence
the compliance and proceed diligently to complete fulfillment of the obligation.
2) If the permittee or the permittee's surety does not commence the compliance
within the thirty (30) days or the additional time allowed by the Director, or has so
commenced but fails diligently to complete the compliance, or the compliance is
otherwise not completed within the time specified in granting the development
permit, the County may take the following action:
(A) Enter upon the site of the development and carry out the obligation in
accordance with the provisions agreed upon under the acknowledgment.
(B) Notify the permittee and the permittee's surety of the permittee's failure to
perform as required by this Ordinance.
(C) Demand payment from the permittee for the unfulfilled obligation.
(D) If the security for the obligation is a bond, notify the surety that has
furnished the bond that reimbursement for the expense for fulfillment of
the obligation is due and payable to the County or, if the security is a
deposit of cash or other assets, appropriate as much of the deposit as is
necessary to recoup the expenses.
(E)  If a bond or other security required by Section 1.1090 is not sufficient to
compensate the County for expenses necessary to fulfill the obligation, the
amount due to the County for the obligation is a lien in favor of the County
and upon the entire contiguous real property of the owner of the land
subject to the obligation.
(F)  The lien attaches upon the filing with the County Clerk of notice of the
claim for the amount due for the fulfillment of the obligation. The notice
shall demand the amount due, allege the insufficiency of the bond or other
security to compensate the County fully for the expense of the fulfillment
of the obligation, and allege the permittee's failure to do the required
obligation.
(G) The lien may be foreclosed in the manner prescribed by law for
foreclosing other liens on real property.

Section 1.1110. Adjusting Bond or Deposit for Future Obligation
1) In the case of an obligation to perform at a future date, such as a surface mining
reclamation obligation, the amount of bond or deposit shall be adjusted annually
to reflect changing estimates of the costs of fulfilling the obligation.

Clatsop County Land and Water I-65 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                         Ordinances 25-08, 25-16, 26-05
ARTICLE 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
2) In the case of a surface mining reclamation obligation the bond shall be no less
than an amount comparable to $600 per acre in 1978, and the minimum bond
shall be adjusted by the County Engineer annually on the basis of changes in
generally accepted economic indices of construction costs and costs of living. If
the acreage to which the bond or deposit pertains and is designated by the
permittee, excavation may take place only within the acreage so designated.
Otherwise, the acreage to which the bond or deposit pertains and on which
excavation may take place in the entire mining site. The permittee may apply for
release of a bond or deposit pertaining to an area that has not been mined and is
not intended to be mined or that has been mined and reclaimed in conformity to
these standards. Within thirty (30) days after the application is filed, the Director
shall consider the application. If the Director determines that the area, if unmined,
is expected to remain so for the foreseeable future or if mined has been
reclaimed in conformity to this Ordinance, the Director shall release the bond or
deposit to the extent that is pertains to that area.
3) Where the County carries out the obligation because the permittee has failed to
do so under Section 1.1100, the County may expend funds only to the extent
necessary to complete the obligation. If the amount specified in the notice to the
surety is not paid within thirty (30) days after that notice is given the surety, the
County shall institute proceedings to recover the amount.
4) A lien created under this Section is prior to all other liens and encumbrances,
except that the lien has equal priority with tax liens.

Section 1.1120. Fees and Deposits
Fees and deposits shall be set and adjusted by Board of Commissioners resolution.

Section 1.1130. Interpretation
Where the conditions imposed by a provision of this Ordinance are less restrictive than
comparable conditions imposed by any other provisions of this Ordinance or any other
Ordinance, the provisions which are more restrictive shall govern.

Section 1.1140. Severability
The provisions of this Ordinance are severable. If any section, sentence, clause or
phrase of this Ordinance is adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid,
the decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Ordinance.