Clatsop County Land and Water II-1 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE APPLICATIONS
SECTION 2.0010. PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY [ORD. 25-02]
1) Purpose: The purpose of this Article is to establish standard decision-making
procedures that enable the County, the applicant and the public to review
applications and participate in the land use decision-making process in a timely
and effective way. Table 2.1 provides a key for determining the review procedure
and the decision-making body for specific application types.
2) Applicability: Unless exempted in Section 2.0300, all land use development
shall require a development permit or other land use approval. The land use
permit applications and approvals included in Table 2.1 shall be reviewed and
decided using the procedures contained in this chapter. All land use approvals
are subject to the following:
(A) The Community Development Director, or designee, shall be responsible
for the coordination of land use and development applications and
decision-making procedures.
(B) The Director shall not issue a permit or land use approval for the
improvement or use of land that has been partitioned, subdivided or
otherwise developed in violation of this Ordinance, unless the permit or
land use approval would resolve the violation.
(C) The Building Official shall not issue a permit for the construction,
reconstruction, or alteration of a structure or part of structure unless a land
use permit or land use approval has been issued.
(D) All new development shall comply with the provisions of this Ordinance
and, where applicable, the Clatsop County Comprehensive Plan.
3) Consistency with Oregon Revised Statutes: Applications processed under this
Ordinance shall be consistent with Oregon Revised Statutes (ORS). The County
shall follow ORS provisions in instances when the requirements of the County’s
code would fail to comply with State requirements.

SECTION 2.0020. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS [ORD. 25-02] [ORD. 26-05]
The following requirements and procedures apply to all applications:
1) Review Types: All land use and development permit applications shall be
reviewed under one of the following review types:
(A) Type I: Ministerial Review
(B) Type II: Administrative Review
(C) Type III: Quasi-judicial Review
(D) Type IV: Legislative Review
A complete list of applications and their associated review type is provided in
Table 2.1. Detailed information on each review type is provided in Section
2.0060.

Clatsop County Land and Water II-2 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
TABLE 2.1: REVIEW TYPES
  Review Authority
Permit/Application Procedure
Type
Decision Appeal
Agri-Tourism Event Renewal II Director Hearings Officer
Section 2.0090(1)
Appeal:
Director/Hearings Officer
Decision
III Hearings Officer Board of
Commissioners
Section 2.0090(2)
Appeal:
Hearings Officer/Planning
Commission Decision
IV Board of
Commissioners
Land Use Board of
Appeals
Section 2.0090(3)
Commercial Site Plan Review II Director Hearings Officer
Section 2.0090(1)
Comprehensive Plan Map/Text
Amendment (Quasi-judicial)
III Board of
Commissioners
Land Use Board of
Appeals
Section 2.0090(2)
Comprehensive Plan Map/Text
Amendment (Legislative)
IV Board of
Commissioners
Land Use Board of
Appeals
Section 2.0090(3)
Conditional Use Permit
(no public hearing)
II Director Hearings Officer
Section 2.0090(1)
Conditional Use Permit
(public hearing)
III Hearings Officer Board of
Commissioners
Section 2.0090(2)
Destination Resort III Board of
Commissioners
Land Use Board of
Appeals
Section 2.0090(2)
Development Permit I Director, or designee Circuit Court
Expansion of Non-Conforming
Use
II Director Hearings Officer
Section 2.0090(1)

Clatsop County Land and Water II-3 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
TABLE 2.1: REVIEW TYPES
  Review Authority
Permit/Application Procedure
Type
Decision Appeal
Extension of Approval I Director Hearings Officer
Section 2.0090(1)
Floodplain Development Permit I Director, or designee Hearings Officer
Section 2.0090(1)
Geologic Hazard Permit I Director, or designee Hearings Officer
Section 2.0090(1)
Goal Exception III/IV Board of
Commissioners
Land Use Board of
Appeals
Section 2.0090(2)
Lot of Record Determination I Director Hearings Officer
Section 2.0090(1)
Modification, Major II Director Hearings Officer
Section 2.0090(1)
Modification, Minor I Director Hearings Officer
Section 2.0090(1)
Partition II Director Hearings Officer
Section 2.0090(1)
Planned Development  III Board of
Commissioners
Land Use Board of
Appeals
Section 2.0090(2)
Property Line Adjustment I Director Hearings Officer
Section 2.0090(1)
Replacement Dwelling
(Resource Zone)
I Director Hearings Officer
Section 2.0090(1)
Sign Permit I Director, or designee Circuit Court
Similar Use Determination III Board of Land Use Board of

Clatsop County Land and Water II-4 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
TABLE 2.1: REVIEW TYPES
  Review Authority
Permit/Application Procedure
Type
Decision Appeal
Commissioners Appeals
Section 2.0090(2)
Subdivision Approval III Planning Commission
(no County roads
proposed)
Board of
Commissioners
(County roads
proposed)
Board of
Commissioners (no
County roads
proposed)
Land Use Board of
Appeals (County roads
proposed)
Section 2.0090(2)
Temporary Use I Director Hearings Officer
Section 2.0090(1)
Validation of a Unit of Land II Director Hearings Officer
Section 2.0090(1)
Variance III Hearings Officer Board of
Commissioners
Section 2.0090(2)
Variance, Administrative II Director Hearings Officer
Section 2.0090(1)
Zoning Map Amendment (quasi-
judicial)
III Board of
Commissioners
Land Use Board of
Appeals
Section 2.0090(2)
Zoning Map Amendment
(legislative)
IV Board of
Commissioners
Land Use Board of
Appeals
Section 2.0090(3)
Zoning Text Amendment IV Board of
Commissioners
Land Use Board of
Appeals
Section 2.0090(3)
Zoning Review I Director or designee Circuit Court

Clatsop County Land and Water II-5 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS

2) Consolidated Review: When an applicant applies for more than one type of
land use approval or development permit for the same project, the applications
shall be consolidated. Consolidated applications shall be processed according to
the highest numbered review type, as established in Table 2.1.
3) Deadlines and Time Limits: The following timeframes apply to review and
approval of all applications and permits:
(A) For all Type I, Type II and Type III applications:
i. The County shall take final action within 150 days from the date
the application is deemed complete. Final action shall include
completion of all appeals to the Planning Commission and/or
Board of Commissioners.
ii. The 150-day period may be extended at the request of the
applicant. The total of all extensions shall not be more than 215
days, unless a dispute concerning the application will be
mediated per ORS 215.427(10).
(B) Computation of Time: Public notices, issuance of permits and notices of
decision have prescribed timeframes during which comments can be
provided or a decision can be appealed. When calculating the applicable
time period, the day that a public notice, permit or notice of decision is
issued is not included. The end date of the comment period or appeal
period shall include the last day, unless it is a Saturday, Sunday or legal
holiday. If the last day is a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, the time
period shall be extended to the day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or legal
holiday.

EXAMPLE 1: A 10-day public notice is issued on Friday, June 24.
The day the notice is issued is not included in the 10-day period.
That means the 10-day period would end on Monday, July 4.
Because July 4 is a legal holiday, the 10-day period would be
extended to Tuesday, July 5.

EXAMPLE 2: A Notice of Decision for a partition is issued on
September 3.  The appeal period is 12 days.  The 12-day appeal
period would begin on September 4 and would end on September
15.
(C) Application Fees: Fees shall be established by the Board of County
Commissioners. All applications shall include the required filing fee at the
time of submittal, unless a fee waiver has been granted by the Board of
County Commissioners. Fee waivers must be approved by the Board of
County Commissioners prior to the application being submitted.
(D) Application Forms: Application forms provided by the County shall be
used for all applications.

Clatsop County Land and Water II-6 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
(E) Complete Applications: Following submittal of an application package to
the Community Development Department, staff shall conduct a
completeness review. Staff shall have 30 calendar days to determine if the
application is complete. The 30-day period begins on the date that the
application is submitted.

If the application is deemed incomplete, the Director, or designee, shall
notify the applicant in writing of exactly what information is missing. The
applicant shall have 180 days from the date the application was submitted
to:
i. provide all of the missing information;
ii. provide some of the missing information and written notice that no
other information will be provided; or
iii. provide written notice that none of the information will be provided

On the 181st day after the application was submitted, the application will
be deemed void if the applicant has been notified of the missing
information and has not responded in accordance with subsections (E)(i-
iii), above.
(F) Modifications of Applications Under Review: This subsection shall
apply if an applicant modifies an application after the County has deemed
it complete but prior to a public hearing or issuance of a decision. Upon
receipt of materials that modify an application, the Director shall evaluate
the modifications, determine which of the two categories listed below
describes the modification, and follow the related procedures. This
decision is not a land use decision and is not appealable.
i. Significant Modification. A significantly modified application greatly
differs from the application that was deemed complete. Such
differences may include the land use; size, height, and/or design of
proposed structures; location of uses and structures on the site; or
other such characteristics of the proposal. Substantial modifications
may alter which approval criteria and development standards
applied to the development proposal. The Director shall notify the
applicant of this determination and take one of the following
actions, at the direction of the applicant:
a. Allow the applicant to withdraw the original application and
submit the modified proposal as a new application.
b. Reject the modifications and continue processing the original
application. Rejecting a significant modification does not
preclude the applicant from submitting other, different
modifications.
ii. Minor Modification. Minor modifications involve a limited number of
changes from the original application and would not alter any
approval criteria and development standards which apply to the

Clatsop County Land and Water II-7 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
development proposal. The Director shall notify the applicant of this
determination and take one of the following actions, at the direction
of the applicant:
a. Accept the modifications and proceed with the review of the
modified application. The Director may repeat, at his or her
discretion, any part of the public notice or referral process to
provide appropriate opportunity for public review of the
modifications. The applicant shall also extend the 150-day
decision requirement in writing to a date that is sufficient to
allow for additional review, public notice, or evaluation by the
County.
b. Reject the modifications and continue processing the original
application. Rejecting a minor modification does not preclude
the applicant from submitting other, different modifications.
(G) Length of Approvals: Permit approvals shall be valid as noted below:
i. Type I (Development, Floodplain and Sign Permits): 180 days
ii. Type I (Temporary Use): 1 year
iii. Type I (Extension of Approval): 1 year
iv. Type I (Property Line Adjustment): 2 years
v. Type I (Replacement Dwelling): 4 years, plus one 2-year
extension; plus five 1-year extensions
vi. Type I (Geologic Hazard Review): 5 years
vii. Type I (Lot of Record Determination): No expiration unless
property boundaries are changed
viii. Type I (Modification, Minor): Remainder of original approval
period [ORD. 26-05]
ix. Type II (Administrative Variance): 18 months [ORD. 26-05]
x. Type II (outside resource zones): 2 years; plus one 1-year
extension
xi. Type II (in resource zones): 4 years, plus one 2-year extension;
plus five 1-year extensions
xii. Type II: (Modification, Major): Remainder of original approval
period [ORD. 26-05]
xiii. Type III: 18 months [ORD. 26-05]
xiv. Type IV: No expiration
The extension of a permit under this subsection is not a land use decision
as defined in ORS 197.015. [ORD. 23-02]
(H) Effective Date of Permits: A decision on a Type II, III or IV request shall
not become final until the appeal period has expired. If appealed, the
decision shall not become final until all appeals have been completed and
a final decision by the reviewing body has been issued.
(I) Resubmittal of a Denied Application: If the County denies an
application, and the denial is not reversed upon appeal, no new
application for the same or substantially similar action shall be filed for at

Clatsop County Land and Water II-8 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
least 60 days. The 60-day period shall be calculated beginning on the date
that the final order denying the action was issued. Resubmittal of an
application shall require payment of a new application fee.
(J) State and Federal Permit Requirements: If any state or federal permit is
required for a development or use, an applicant, prior to issuance of a
development permit or action, shall provide a copy of the state or federal
permit to the Planning Division. Nothing in this article shall relieve a use or
development from compliance with other applicable laws.
(K) Burden and Nature of Proof: The applicant shall bear the burden of
proof that the proposal complies with the applicable standards. Evidence
of mistake of adoption of the plan designation or development regulations
or subsequent change in the affected area are relevant considerations.
Failure to comply with any provision of this Article shall invalidate an
action only if it prejudices the substantial rights of the person alleging the
error. Persons alleging procedural error shall have the burden of proof as
to whether the error occurred and whether the error has prejudiced the
person’s substantial rights.

Clatsop County Land and Water II-9 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
SECTION 2.0300. DEVELOPMENT PERMIT REQUIREMENTS [ORD. 25-02]
1) An application for a development permit shall consist of the following materials,
plus any other materials specific to an application and as required by this
Ordinance.
(A) Application form signed by all owners
(B) Proof that the property is exclusively owned by the applicant, or that the
applicant has the consent of all owners to submit the application
(C) Application fee or waiver approved by the Board of Commissioners
(D) Legal description of the property
(E) Site map drawn to scale, showing the information required by Section
2.9410
(F) Detailed description of the proposed development
(G) For developments that will use potable water, sewer and/or on-site septic,
the following shall be provided:
i. Proof that a year-round source of potable water has been obtained
pursuant to Section 3.0040.
ii. Verification of septic approval or hook-up to a state approved sewer
system.
(H) Proof of legal access to the property:
i. If access is taken directly from a State, County, or public road,
documentation from the appropriate agency verifying legal access.
ii. If access is taken from a private road or across property not in
exclusive ownership of the applicant, proof of easement shall be
provided.
(I) Authorization from the local fire official.
2) The following activities do not require a development permit. Exempt activities
shall still comply with all other applicable requirements of the Ordinance,
including, but not limited to, Sections 5.1000 and 5.3000.
(A) Landscaping, gardening or other similar use of the land surface that does
not involve the placement of a structure.
(B) Fences 6 or less feet in height that are outside the clear vision area
(Section 3.9530). An additional six inches in height is allowed for
decorative finials, posts and gats, and does not require a development
permit. Fences greater than 6 feet in height require a development permit
and must meet applicable setback standards, unless a fence height
variance has been approved. [ORD. 26-05]
(C) Internal changes to a building or other structure that do not increase the
building footprint and that do not require a building permit.
(D) Residential accessory structures less than 200 square feet in area and
less than 10 feet in height. No structures may be placed within the clear
vision area (see Section 3.9530 - Clear Vision Area).
(E) Temporary emergency measures necessary for the safety or protection of
property in the event of a natural disaster or catastrophic event. If state,

Clatsop County Land and Water II-10 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
federal or local permits are required for the activity, those permits must be
obtained following installation of the temporary emergency measure.
(F) Erection of a tent or similar portable structure for special events for a
period of up to 30 days.
(G) Farming, except in the F-80 zone.
(H) Seasonal flower stands, selling flowers grown on the property where the
stand is located. Seasonal flower stands shall not be larger than 10
square feet in size or more than 10 feet in height.
(I) Activities regulated by the Oregon Department of Forestry under the
Oregon Forest Practices Act.
(J) Recreational vehicles, campers, trailers, motor homes, and boats may be
temporarily occupied by the property owners, their family or non-paying
guests for up to 120 days each calendar year.  No more than three
vehicles may be used for temporary occupancy on a property at any time.
Vehicles shall be removed from the property at the end of each 120-day
period.
(K) Roads or utilities as defined in Section 1.5000.  The terms “roads” and
“utilities” shall also include electrical power or gas distribution lines or
telephone or television cable systems. These uses require a development
permit in overlay zones and resource zones.
(L) A recreational vehicle that is temporarily occupied as a residential dwelling
when the existing dwelling has become uninhabitable due to damages
from a natural disaster, including wildfire, earthquake, flooding or storms.
The recreational vehicle shall not be used as a residential dwelling once
one of the following has occurred:
i. The dwelling has been repaired or replaced and an occupancy
permit has been issued;
ii. The County determines that the owner of the dwelling has not
commenced completing the repairs or replacing the dwelling within
180 days from the date the first building permit was issued; or
iii. Five years after the date the dwelling first became uninhabitable.
[ORD. 23-02; ORD. 24-01]
iv. Under alter, restore, or replacement of a dwelling destroyed by
wildfire, identified in an Executive Order issued by the Governor in
accordance with the Emergency Conflagration Act (ORS 476.510-
476.610) between August 1 and September 30, 2020, occupancy of
a recreational vehicle under ORS 197.493(1)(b)(c) is extended to
December 30, 2020. [ORD. 24-01]

Clatsop County Land and Water II-11 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
SECTION 2.0040. PRE-APPLICATION MEETING [ORD. 25-02]
1) Purpose: The purpose of the meeting is to acquaint the applicant with the
application process and the applicable elements of the Comprehensive Plan and
Development Code.
2) Applicability: A pre-application conference shall be required as follows:
a. Type I: Pre-application meeting is not required
b. Type II: Pre-application meeting is not required, unless the property is
within the Special Flood Hazard Area
c. Type III and Type IV: Pre-application meeting required
3) Procedure: A pre-application meeting shall include the following steps:
a. Prior to scheduling a pre-application meeting the applicant shall provide a
copy of the proposed site plan, subdivision plat, a map showing all
property that would be affected by a proposed map amendment, and/or
specific proposed language if the application is for a text amendment.
b. Upon receipt of the applicant’s materials, the County shall schedule a pre-
application meeting and shall notify relevant outside agencies and
departments.
c. Following the meeting, the County shall provide the applicant with a
written summary of the conference within 10 business days of the
meeting. The summary shall include confirmation of the procedures to be
used to process the application, a list of materials to be submitted and the
criteria and standards that will be applied to the review of the application.
SECTION 2.0050. APPLICANT-NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING [ORD. 17-02] [ORD. 25-
02]
The purpose of an applicant-neighborhood meeting is to encourage early and effective
communication about proposed major developments.
1) The applicant shall hold a neighborhood meeting before submitting a Type III
application.
2) Applicant-Neighborhood Meetings shall be conducted as follows:
(A) Meetings may be held in-person or virtually.
(B) In-person meetings shall be held on the subject project, if accessible.  If
the subject property is not accessible, an accessible location that is within
25 miles the subject property shall be chosen.
(C) The applicant shall send mailed notice of the public meeting to the
Community Development Department Director and all property owners
within 300 feet of the subject property.
(D) If any part of the subject property is within the boundaries of a
neighborhood or community organization as defined by Section 1.0500,
notice shall be sent to the organization.
(E) The property owner list shall be provided by the county and shall be
compiled from County Tax Assessor’s property owners of record.
(F) The notice shall be sent a minimum of 10 days and no more than 30 days
before the meeting, and shall include:

Clatsop County Land and Water II-12 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
1) Date, time and location of the public meeting;
2) For virtual meetings, a link to the meeting shall be provided
3) A brief written description of the development proposal and
proposed use(s);
4) The location of the subject property, including address (if
applicable), nearest cross streets and any other easily understood
geographical references, and a map that shows the location of the
subject property.
5) Contact information for the applicant, including mailing address,
telephone number, and email address
(G) The applicant’s presentation at the neighborhood meeting shall include:
1) A map depicting the location of the subject property proposed for
development.
2) A visual description of the project including a site plan, tentative
subdivision plan and elevation drawings of any proposed
structures, if applicable.
3) A description of the proposed development including, but not
limited to, sizes and heights of structures, proposed lot sizes, and
number of units.
4) The expected or anticipated impacts from the proposed
development, including, but not limited to, traffic, storm drainage,
and tree removal.
5) Mitigation proposed by the applicant to alleviate the
expected/anticipated impacts.
6) Sign-in sheet for participants at in-person meetings.
7) An opportunity for the public to provide comments.
(H) The applicant shall take meeting notes and submit them with the
application package.  The meeting notes shall include a summary of
issues raised at the meeting and the applicant’s response.

Clatsop County Land and Water II-13 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
SECTION 2.0060. REVIEW TYPES [ORD. 25-02]
An application for a permit or land use action shall be processed under either a Type I,
II, III or IV procedure as shown in Table 2.1. Uses permitted outright in Article 4 require
a zoning review prior to the issuance of building permits.
1) Zoning Review: Uses permitted outright in a zone shall obtain a zoning review
approval to verify required setbacks, maximum buildings heights, maximum lot
coverage and additional permits or approvals required, if any.
2) Type I Ministerial Review: Type I decisions are made by the Director, or
designee, without public notice and without a public hearing. Type I applications
involve permitted uses or developments governed by clear and objective
approval criteria.
3) Type II Administrative Review: Type II decisions are made by the Director, or
designee, and require public notice and an opportunity to appeal to the Hearings
Officer. involve uses or development for which review criteria are reasonably
objective, requiring only limited discretion.
4) Type III Quasi-Judicial: Type III decisions, with the exception of a quasi-judicial
zone change, are made by the Planning Commission after a public hearing, with
an opportunity to appeal to the Board of Commissioners. A decision on a quasi-
judicial zone change is a Type III decision made by the Board of Commissioners
on recommendation of the Planning Commission. Quasi-judicial decisions involve
the exercise of discretion and judgment when applying applicable land use and
development criteria, but implement established policy.
5) Type IV Legislative: Type IV actions are reviewed by the Planning Commission,
which makes a recommendation to the Board of Commissioners. The Board of
Commissioners makes the final decision on a legislative proposal through the
adoption of an ordinance. Legislative decisions involve the creation, broad-scale
implementation, or revision of public policy. Changes to the comprehensive plan
are legislative actions. Applications to the amend the County’s zoning and/or
comprehensive plan maps are legislative when a large number of owners or
entire class of property owners will be directly affected. Applications to amend
the County’s zoning and/or comprehensive plan maps are quasi-judicial when the
change would affect only a limited, specific number of properties. The provisions
in Article 2 shall not limit the authority of the Board of Commissioners to initiate
changes to overlay or zone designations or development requirements as part of
a revision of the Comprehensive Plan or implementing ordinance.

Clatsop County Land and Water II-14 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
SECTION 2.0070. GENERAL NOTICING REQUIREMENTS [ORD. 25-02]
1) The following general noticing requirements are in addition to the noticing
requirements included in Section 2.0080:
(A) The County shall provide notice to the Department of State Lands for
development applications that are wholly or partially within an area
mapped for hydric soils as identified on the Statewide Wetlands Inventory.
(B) For applications for a comprehensive plan or zone change, notice shall be
provided to the Oregon Department of Transportation (ODOT).
(C) For applications for new or expanded development within 750 feet of a
state highway, the County shall provide notice to ODOT.
(D) The County shall provide notice of all comprehensive plan and zoning
ordinance amendments to the Department of Land Conservation and
Development (DLCD). Notice shall be provided at least 35 days prior to
the first evidentiary hearing and will be consistent with ORS 197.610.
(E) An affidavit or other formal certification of all mailing notices shall be made
part of the record.
(F) Addresses for a mailed notice shall be obtained from the County
Assessor’s real property tax records.
(G) Failure of a notified party to receive notification will not invalidate the
procedure.

Clatsop County Land and Water II-15 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
SECTION 2.0080. PROCEDURES [ORD. 25-02]
1) Type I: The following procedures apply to all Type I applications and approvals:
(A) Public Notice: No notice is required for a Type I application.
(B) Criteria and Decision: The Director’s review of a Type I application will
determine whether minimum code requirements are met and whether any
other land use permit or approval is required prior to issuance of a building
permit.
(C) Notice of Decision: Type I development approvals shall be decided by
the Director, or designee, without public notice or hearing. Notice of a
decision shall be provided to the applicant.
(D) Effective Date: A Type I decision is final on the date it is issued by the
Director or designee.
(E) Appeals: A Type I decision can be appealed in accordance with Section
2.0090(1).
2) Type II:  The following procedures apply to all Type II applications and
approvals:
(A) Public Notice: The purpose of the notice is to give surrounding property
owners and other interested people and agencies the opportunity to
submit written comments on the application before the Director issues a
decision.
i. Notice of a Type II application shall be sent to the following parties:
a. All owners of record of real property within 100 feet of the
subject property if the subject property is within an Urban
Growth Boundary (UGB)
b. All owners of record of real property within 250 feet of the
subject property if the subject property is outside a UGB and
not a farm or forest zone
c. All owners of record of real property within 750 feet of the
subject property if the subject property is outside a UGB and in
a farm or forest zone
d. The applicant
e. Any neighborhood or community organization whose
boundaries include the subject property
f. Any affected government agency or special district, including
affected cities if the subject property is adjacent to or within
the UGB
g. Owners of a public use airport if the subject property is within
10,000 feet of the airport perimeter
h. All other persons or agencies that may be affected by the
proposal
ii. The notice shall contain the following information:
a. A summary of the proposal and the relevant approval criteria
b. The general location of the subject property and, when
available, street address, legal description, or other easily

Clatsop County Land and Water II-16 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
understandable reference to the location of the proposed
development
c. The name of the County staff person and contact information
for submitting written comments
d. The deadline for submitting written comments, which shall be
at least 10 days prior to the decision date.
iii. Disclosure statement indicating that if any person fails to address
the relevant approval criteria with enough detail, they may not be
able to appeal to the Land Use Board of Appeals or Circuit Court on
that issue. Only comments on the relevant approval criteria are
considered relevant evidence.
iv. Statement that all evidence relied upon by the decision maker is
public record and is available for public review. Copies of this
evidence can be obtained at a reasonable cost from the County.
v. Statement in capital letters: “NOTICE TO MORTGAGEE,
LIENHOLDER, VENDOR OR SELLER: ORS CHAPTER 215
REQUIRES THAT IF YOU RECEIVE THIS NOTICE, IT MUST BE
PROMPTLY FORWARDED TO THE PURCHASER.”
(B) Criteria and Decision:
i. At the conclusion of the comment period, the Director shall review
the comments received and prepare a decision approving,
approving with conditions, or denying the application based on the
applicable Ordinance criteria.
(C) Notice of Decision:
i. The Notice of Decision shall be provided to:
a. the applicant
b. all parties who provided comment on the application
c. DLCD
d. any affected agencies and County departments
ii. An affidavit of mailed notice shall be prepared and made a part of
the file. The affidavit shall show the date the notice was mailed and
shall demonstrate that the notice was mailed to the parties above.
iii. The Notice of Decision shall include the following information:
a. A description of the applicant’s proposal and the County’s
decision, including conditions of approval if applicable
b. The street address or other easily understood geographic
description of the subject property
c. The date the decision shall become final, unless appealed
d. Statement that any person who is adversely affected or who is
entitled to written notice may appeal the decision by filing a
written appeal within 12 days of the date the notice was mailed
e. Statement that the decision will not become final until the 12-
day appeal period has ended
(D) Appeals: A Type II decision can be appealed in accordance with Section

Clatsop County Land and Water II-17 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
2.0090(1).
3) Type III:  The following procedures apply to all Type III applications and
approvals:
(A) Public Notice: The County shall provide notice of a public hearing on a
quasi-judicial application at least 20 days prior to the first hearing date.  If
two or more hearings are allowed, then notice shall be provided at least 10
days prior to the first hearing. The Director, or designee, shall prepare an
affidavit or formal certification stating the date that the notice was mailed,
which shall be made part of the file.
i. Notice of a public hearing shall be provided to the following parties:
a. All owners of record of real property within 100 feet of the
subject property if the subject property is within an Urban
Growth Boundary (UGB)
b. All owners of record of real property within 250 feet of the
subject property if the subject property is outside a UGB and
not a farm or forest zone
c. All owners of record of real property within 750 feet of the
subject property if the subject property is outside a UGB and in
a farm or forest zone
d. The applicant
e. Any neighborhood or community organization whose
boundaries include the subject property
f. Any affected government agency or special district, including
affected cities if the subject property is adjacent to or within
the UGB
g. Owners of a public use airport if the subject property is within
10,000 feet of the airport perimeter
h. All other persons or agencies that may be affected by the
proposal
ii. Notice of a public hearing shall include the following information:
a. A summary of the proposal and the relevant approval criteria
b. The general location of the subject property and, when
available, street address, legal description, or other easily
understandable reference to the location of the proposed use
or development
c. The date, time and location of scheduled hearing and the
name of the hearing body
d. The name of the County staff person and contact information
for submitting written comments and obtaining additional
information
e. Disclosure statement indicating that if any person fails to
address the relevant approval criteria with enough detail, they
may not be able to appeal to the Land Use Board of Appeals
or Circuit Court on that issue. Only comments on the relevant

Clatsop County Land and Water II-18 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
approval criteria are considered relevant evidence.
f. Statement that all evidence relied upon by the decision maker
is public record and is available for public review. Copies of
this evidence can be obtained at a reasonable cost from the
County.
g. Statement that a copy of the staff report will be available for
inspection at no cost at least seven days prior to the hearing
and paper copies will be provided at reasonable cost.
h. A general explanation of the requirements for submission of
testimony and the procedure for conduct of hearings.
(B) Newspaper Notice: Notice of the public hearing shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the County at least ten (10) calendar
days prior to the date of a quasi-judicial public hearing. An affidavit or
other formal certification of publication shall be made part of the record.
(C) Posting of Subject Property:
i. The County shall prepare the notice to be posted on the subject
property.
ii. The County shall photograph the sign on the subject property and
shall prepare an affidavit stating the date the sign was posted.
iii. The County shall post the notice at least 20 days before the first
scheduled public hearing. If two or more public hearings will be
held, the sign shall be posted not less than 10 days prior to the first
public hearing.
iv. One sign shall be posted on each frontage of the subject property.
The sign shall be placed in a location visible from a road or street
abutting the property. If no road or street abuts the property, the
notice shall be placed in a location that is generally visible to the
public.
v. If the subject property is located where the posting would not be
visible to anyone other than adjacent property owners who received
written notice, alternative locations visible to the public shall be
determined by the Community Development Director.
vi. Notices shall not be posted within the public right-of-way or on
trees.
(D) Notice of Decision:
i. The Notice of Decision shall be provided to:
a. the applicant
b. all parties who provided comment on the application
c. DLCD
d. any affected agencies and County departments
ii. An affidavit of mailed notice shall be prepared and made a part of
the file. The affidavit shall show the date the notice was mailed and
shall demonstrate that the notice was mailed to the parties above.
iii. The Notice of Decision shall include the following information:

Clatsop County Land and Water II-19 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
a. A description of the applicant’s proposal and the County’s
decision, including conditions of approval if applicable
b. The street address or other easily understood geographic
description of the subject property
c. Findings of fact which the hearing body used to establish
compliance or noncompliance with the applicable review
criteria
d. The date the decision shall become final, unless appealed
e. Statement that any person who is adversely affected or who is
entitled to written notice may appeal the decision by filing a
written appeal within 12 days of the date the notice was mailed
f. Statement that the decision will not become final until he 12-
day appeal period has ended
g. Statement that persons entitled to appeal may appeal the
decision to the Board of County Commissioners or to the Land
Use Board of Appeals, as applicable.
(E) Appeals: A Type III decision can be appealed in accordance with Section
2.0090(2).
(F) Conduct of the Public Hearing:
i. Staff Report: At least seven days prior to the hearing, the
Department shall provide a written report to the hearing body and
shall make the report available to the public for inspection or
purchase. The report shall detail the nature of the request and
include findings based on the applicable review and approval
criteria.
ii. Application Materials: All application materials, documents or
other evidence submitted by or on behalf of the applicant for any
land use approval shall be provided and made available for public
review.
iii. Hearings Procedure: At the start of the hearing, the hearings
officer or the chair of the Planning Commission, as applicable, shall
state to those in attendance all of the following information and
instructions:
a. The approval criteria that apply to the application
b. Testimony and evidence shall concern the approval criteria
described in the staff report or any other criteria in the
comprehensive plan or land use regulations that the person
testifying believes to apply to the decision.
c. Failure to raise an issue with sufficient detail to give the
hearing body and the parties an opportunity to respond to the
issue may preclude appeal to the State Land Use Board of
Appeals.
d. At the conclusion of the initial evidentiary haring, the hearing
body shall deliberate and make a decision based on the facts

Clatsop County Land and Water II-20 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
and arguments in the public record.
e. Any participant may ask the hearing body for an opportunity to
present additional relevant evidence or testimony that is within
the scope of the hearing; if the hearing body grants the
request, it will schedule a date to continue the hearing), or
leave the record open for additional written evidence or
testimony as provided in Subsection (H).
(G) Procedural Rights. Applicants are entitled to an impartial review free
from potential conflicts of interest and pre-hearing ex-parte (outside the
hearing) communications.
i. Ex Parte Communications: Prior to conducting the public hearing,
members of the hearing body shall disclose all ex-parte
communications.
ii. No decision or action of a hearing body shall be invalid due to ex
parte communications or bias resulting from ex parte
communications with a member of the hearing body, if the member
receiving the contact:
a. States for the record the substance of any written or oral ex
parte communications
b. The hearing body allows the applicant to address the
substance of the ex parte communication
c. A communication between County staff and the hearing body
shall not be considered ex parte communication
iii. When a hearing body member has an actual conflict of interest, as
defined in ORS 244.020(1), the member shall not participate in the
hearing, except where State law provides otherwise.
iv. Where the appearance of a conflict of interest is likely, the member
of the hearing body shall individually disclose their relationship to
the applicant in the public hearing and state whether they are
capable of rendering a fair and impartial decision. If they are unable
to render a fair and impartial decision, they shall be excused from
the proceedings.
v. Challenges to Impartiality: Except for Type IV hearings conducted
by the governing body, a party to a hearing or a member of the
hearing body may challenge the qualifications of a member of the
hearing body to participate in the hearing. The challenging member
shall provide an affidavit stating the facts relied upon to determine a
person’s bias, prejudgment, personal interest, or other facts from
which the challenger has concluded that a member of the hearing
body cannot participate in an impartial manner. Except for good
cause shown, challenge shall be delivered by personal service to
the Community Development Director not less than 48 hours before
the time set for the public hearing. The Director shall notify the
person whose qualifications are challenged prior to the meeting.

Clatsop County Land and Water II-21 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
The challenge shall be incorporated into the record of the hearing.
vi. Disqualification: Except for Type IV hearings conducted by the
governing body, no member of a hearing body shall participate in a
discussion of the proposal or vote on the proposal when any of the
following conditions exist:
a. The member is unable to render a fair and impartial decision.
A member unable to render a fair and impartial decision shall
be excused from the proceedings.
b. The majority of the hearing body members vote to disqualify a
member.  The member subject to the motion shall not vote on
the motion.
c. A disqualified member shall be counted for purposes of
forming a quorum.
d. A member disqualified due to an actual conflict of interest shall
abstain from voting on the proposal and shall physically leave
the hearing body.
(H) Presenting and Receiving Evidence:
i. The hearing body may set reasonable time limits for oral
presentations and may limit or exclude cumulative, repetitious,
irrelevant or personally derogatory testimony or evidence.
ii. No oral testimony shall be accepted after the close of the public
hearing. Written testimony may be received after the close of the
public hearing only as provided by Subsection (H)(iv).
iii. Members of the hearing body may visit the property and the
surrounding area and may use information obtained during the site
visit to support their decision, if the information relied upon is
disclosed at the beginning of the hearing and an opportunity is
provided to dispute the evidence.
iv. Prior to the conclusion of the initial evidentiary hearing, any
participant may request an opportunity to present additional
evidence or testimony regarding the application. The hearing body
shall grant such request by continuing the public hearing or leaving
the record open for additional written evidence or testimony
pursuant to Subsection (I) below.
v. A member of the hearing body who is absent during the
presentation of evidence in a hearing shall not participate in the
deliberations or final decision regarding the matter unless the
member has reviewed the evidence received.
(I) Continuance: All documents or evidence relied upon by the applicant
shall be submitted to the County and shall be made available to the public.
If additional documents or evidence are provided by any party, the hearing
body may allow a continuance or leave the record open for at least seven
days to allow the parties an opportunity to respond. Any continuance or
extension of the record requested by the applicant shall result in a

Clatsop County Land and Water II-22 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
corresponding extension of the time limitations of ORS 215.427.
i. If the hearing body grants a continuance, the hearing shall be
continued to a date, time and place certain at least seven days from
the date of the first evidentiary hearing. An opportunity shall be
provided at the continued hearing for persons to present and rebut
new evidence and testimony. If new written evidence is submitted
at the continued hearing, any person may request, prior to the
conclusion of the continued hearing, that the record be left open for
at least seven days to submit additional written evidence or
testimony for the purpose of responding to the new written
evidence.
ii. If the hearing body leaves the record open for additional written
evidence or testimony, the record shall be left open for at least
seven days. Any participant may file a written request with the
hearing body for an opportunity to respond to new evidence
submitted during the period the record was left open. If such a
request is filed, the hearing body shall reopen the record and any
person may raise new issues which relate to the new evidence,
testimony or criteria for decision-making which apply to the matter
at issue.
iii. A continuance or extension granted pursuant to this subsection
shall be subject to the limitations of ORS 215.427 unless the
continuance or extension is requested or agreed to by the
applicant.
iv. Unless waived by the applicant, the hearings body shall allow the
applicant at least seven days after the record is closed to all other
parties to submit final written arguments in support of the
application. The applicant’s final submittal shall be considered part
of the record, but shall not include any new evidence.
(J) Record of the Public Hearing:
i. The official public hearing record shall include all of the following
information:
a. All materials considered by the hearings body
b. All materials submitted by the County Planning Official to the
hearings body regarding the application
c. The minutes of the hearing
d. The final written decision
e. Copies of all notices given as required by this section
f. Correspondence regarding the application that the County
mailed or received
ii. The minutes of the meeting shall either be in hardcopy form or electronic.
iii. All exhibits received and displayed shall be marked to provide
identification and shall be part of the record.
(K) Effective Date of Decision: Unless the conditions of approval specify

Clatsop County Land and Water II-23 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
otherwise, a quasi-judicial decision becomes effective 12 days after the
County mails the decision notice, unless the decision is appealed.
4) Type IV:  The following procedures apply to all Type IV applications and
approvals:
(A) Public Notice: Notice of review and decision for Type IV approvals shall
be done in accordance with the provisions of ORS 215.503. In addition,
the following shall be required for Type IV decisions:
i. Newspaper Notice: Notice of the public hearing shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation in the County at least 10 days
prior to each public hearing.
(B) Notice of Decision: Notice of decision shall be provided to persons who
testified orally or in writing while the public record was open regarding the
proposal. The notice shall include the following information:
i. A summary of the decision
ii. The date and number of the adopting ordinance
iii. A summary of the requirements for appealing the decision to the
Land Use Board of Appeals (ORS 197.830-845)
iv. Notice of a Type IV decision shall be mailed within 20 days of the
decision to:
a. the applicant
b. all participants of record
c. The Department of Land Conservation and Development
(C) Appeals: A Type IV decision can be appealed in accordance with Section
2.0090(3).
(D) Effective Date of Decision: A Type IV land use decision, if approved,
shall take effect and shall become final as specified in the ordinance.  If
the ordinance is not approved, the decision is considered final as of the
date the notice of decision is issued.

Clatsop County Land and Water II-24 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
SECTION 2.0090. APPEALS [ORD. 25-02]
1) Appeal of Type I or Type II Decision
(A) Any party to the decision may appeal a Type I or Type II decision to the
Hearings Officer, as specified in Table 2.1. Decisions that are not land use
decisions as defined by ORS 197.015, may be appealed to the circuit
court.
(B) Notice of Appeal: Any person with standing may appeal a Type I or Type
II decision to the Hearings Office by filing a Notice of Appeal according to
the following procedures:
i. Appeal Deadline: A Notice of Appeal must be filed by the aggrieved
party within 12 days of the date the Notice of Decision was issued.
ii. Content of Notice of Appeal: A Notice of Appeal shall be
accompanied by the required filing fee, unless waived by the Board
of Commissioners, and shall contain the following information:
a. Identification of the decision being appealed and the date of
the Notice of Decision
b. The name and signature of each petitioner and a statement of
the standing of the person(s) seeking review
c. A statement explaining the specific grounds for appeal.
(C) Appeal Authority: Appeal of a Type I or Type II land use decision shall
be reviewed by the hearings officer. The hearings officer shall be the final
decision-maker for the County on appeals of the final decision of the
Director for Type I or II actions.
(D) Appeal Process: All appeal hearings shall be conducted as public
hearings in accordance with Section 2.0080(3). Public notice for appeal
hearings shall be the same as public notice for Type III hearings in Section
2.0080(3).
(E) Review of the Final Decision: Review of the final decision of a Type I
application shall be limited to the issues raised in the petition. Review of
the final decision of Type II actions shall be a de novo hearing before the
hearings officer. For an appeal of a Type II decision, the hearings officer
may allow additional evidence, testimony or argument concerning any
relevant standard, criterion, or issue.
(F) Notice of Decision: A Notice of Decision on the appeal shall be provided
in accordance with Section 2.0080(3)
2) Appeal of a Type III Decision:
(A) The following people have legal standing to appeal a Type III decision to
the Board of County Commissioners:
i. The applicant or owner of the subject property
ii. Any other person who testified orally or in writing during the public
hearing before the close of the public record.
(B) Notice of Appeal: Any person with standing to appeal, as provided in
subsection (A) may appeal a Type III decision by filing a Notice of Appeal
according to the following procedures

Clatsop County Land and Water II-25 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
i. Appeal Deadline: Notice of intent to appeal shall be filed by the
aggrieved party within 12 days of the date the Notice of Decision
was issued.
ii. Content of Notice of Appeal: A Notice of Appeal shall be
accompanied by the required filing fee, unless waived by the Board
of Commissioners, and shall contain the following information:
a. Identification of the decision being appealed and the date of
the Notice of Decision
b. The name and signature of each petitioner and a statement of
the standing of the person(s) seeking review
c. A statement explaining the specific grounds for appeal.
(C) Appeal Authority: The appeal of a Type III decision shall require a de
novo hearing before the Board of Commissioners. The Board of
Commissioners may allow additional evidence, testimony or argument
concerning any applicable standard, criterion, condition, or issue.
(D) Appeal Process: All hearings on appeal shall be conducted as public
hearings in accordance with Section 2.0080(3). Public notice for appeal
hearings shall be the same as public notice for Type III quasi-judicial
hearings in Section 2.0080(3).
(E) Effective Date: The appeal decision shall be effective on the date the
County issues the Notice of Decision. Appeals of Board of Commissioners
decisions shall be filed with the State Land Use Board of Appeals,
pursuant to ORS 197.805-197-860.
3) Appeal of a Type IV Decision:
(A) Appeal of a Type IV land use decision may be made to the State Land
Use Board of Appeals in accordance with ORS 197.830-845.
(B) Pursuant to ORS 197.620, a decision to not adopt a legislative
amendment or a new land use regulation is not appealable unless the
amendment is necessary to address the requirements of a new or
amended goal, rule or statute.

SECTION 2.1000. REMANDS [ORD. 25-02]
1) When an application is remanded from an appellate body such as the Land Use
Board of Appeals or Circuit Court, to the County for further proceedings, the For
applications where the decision of the Board of Commissioners was appealed,
the Board shall decide at a regular meeting as a non-public hearing item,
whether the matter shall proceed before the Board or a subordinate review
authority.
2) Final action shall be taken on the remanded application within 90 days of the
effective date of the remand order issued by the Land Use Board of Appeals.
(A) The effective date of the final order is the last day for filing a petition for
judicial review of a final order of the State Land Use Board of Appeals
under ORS 197.850(3).
(B) If judicial review of a final order is sought under ORS 197.830, the 90-day

Clatsop County Land and Water II-26 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
period shall not begin until final resolution of the judicial review.
(C) The 90-day period shall not begin until the applicant requests in writing
that the County proceed with the application on remand.
(D) The 90-day period can be extended at the request of applicant.
(E) The 90-day period does not apply to a remand concerning a decision of
the county making a change to an acknowledged comprehensive plan or a
land use regulation that is submitted to DLCD under ORS 197.610.

Clatsop County Land and Water II-27 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
SECTION 2.4000. CONDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND USE [ORD. 25-02]
Section 2.4010. General Purpose
Although each zoning district is primarily intended for a predominate type of use and
development, there may be cases when a use may be appropriate in a particular district
depending upon all the circumstances of the individual case. For example, the location,
nature of the proposed use, character of the surrounding development, traffic capacities
of adjacent streets, and potential environmental impacts, all may indicate that the
application needs to be individually reviewed. It is the intent of this section to provide a
system of review to ensure that the use is compatible with its location and with this
ordinance and the objectives of the comprehensive plan.
Section 2.4020. Application for a Conditional Use [ORD. 25-02]
If a use is classified as conditional in a zone, it is subject to approval under Sections
2.4000 to 2.4050. An applicant for a conditional use shall provide facts and evidence
and a site plan in compliance with Section 2.9400. The applicant shall also provide a
detailed project description, including:
1) Operating characteristics of the use
2) Number of buildings and dimensions for each building
3) Operating hours
4) Number of employees
5) Number and size of off-street parking spaces
6) Proposed lighting and location
7) Proposed signs, locations and dimensions
8) Proposed fencing location and dimensions
9) Proposed landscape buffer locations and plant specifications
The purpose of these requirements is to ensure that the applicant has provided enough
detailed information to allow the decision maker to reach a determination.
Minor conditional uses are processed as a Type II application.  Major conditional uses
are processed as a Type III application.
Section 2.4030. Minor (Type II) and Major (Type III) Conditional Uses [ORD. 25-02]
1) Conditional uses are listed in each zone as either a Type II (Minor Conditional
Use) or Type III (Major Conditional Use). Type II conditional use applications
shall be reviewed by the Community Development Director. Type III conditional
uses shall be reviewed by the hearings officer.
2) If a proposed application is for a non-water dependent use or an activity in the
Marine Industrial Shorelands Zone, Section 4.1950 shall also apply

Clatsop County Land and Water II-28 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
3) The decision maker shall approve, approve with conditions or deny an
application for a new, enlarged or conditional use based on findings fact for each
of the following criteria:
(A) The proposed use complies with all applicable provisions, goals, or
policies of the Comprehensive Plan.
(B) The proposed use complies with all applicable requirements and
standards of this Ordinance.
(C) The subject property is suitable for the proposed use based upon the
property’s size, shape, location, topography and natural features.
(D) The subject property has, or will have, legal access at the time of
occupancy.
(E) There is, or will be at the time of occupancy, capacity within the roadway
system to serve the project.
(F) Adequate public facilities and services are, or will be, available to service
the subject property at the time of occupancy. Adequate public facilities
and services are demonstrated by providing a signed agency review form
to the Land Use Planning Division prior to commencing construction.
(G) The proposed development will not impact natural resources, including:
a. Wetlands
b. Coastal Shorelands as identified in Goal 17
c. Streams, lakes, or rivers
d. Aquatic areas
e. Inventoried Goal 5 resources
If impacts will occur, the applicant must provide information on the
proposed mitigation.
(H) The proposed development will not be impacted by natural hazards and
will not increase risk to surrounding lands and buildings if the use will be
constructed within a floodplain or geologic hazard area.
(I) The proposed use is compatible with existing and projected uses on
surrounding lands.
(J) For properties designated in the Comprehensive Plan as Rural Agricultural
Lands or Forest Lands, the decision maker must find that the use is
consistent with the maintenance of peripheral and major big game habitat.
To make this determination, the decision maker shall consider the
cumulative effects to big game habitat from the proposed action and other
existing and proposed development in the area.
Section 2.4040. Conditions of Approval [ORD. 25-02]
In addition to compliance with all applicable regulations and standards, the hearing body
may impose conditions on its approval of the use to ensure the proposed use is
compatible with other surrounding uses. These conditions may include, but are not
limited to:
1) Limiting the hours, days, place and manner of operation.
2) Limiting operations that create environmental impacts such as noise, vibration,

Clatsop County Land and Water II-29 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
air pollution, glare and odor, or requiring design features to minimize those
impacts
3) Requiring additional setback areas, open space or increased lot area, width or
depth.
4) Limiting the height, footprint or location of a building or other structure.
5) Designating the size, number, location or surfacing of vehicle access points.
6) Requiring right-of-way dedication, roadway widening or other improvements
within the street right-of-way.
7) Designating the size, location, screening, drainage, surfacing or other
improvement for parking or truck loading areas.
8) Limiting or designating the number, size, location, height or lighting of signs.
9) Limiting the location and intensity of outdoor lighting.
10) Requiring diking, screening, landscaping or other buffering to minimize or
mitigate impacts to surrounding properties from the proposed use.
11) Designating the size, height, location or materials for a fence.
12) Requiring the protection of existing trees, vegetation, water resources, wildlife
habitat or other significant natural resources inventoried in Goal 5 of the County’s
comprehensive plan.
13) Requiring public access (physical or visual) to natural, scenic and recreational
resources identified in Goals 5, 16, 17 and 18 of the County’s comprehensive
plan.
14) Specifying other conditions needed to ensure the development is in compliance
with all applicable codes.
Section 2.4050. Expiration of Conditional Use Approvals [ORD. 25-02]
1) A conditional use approval shall expire after two years unless the project is
completed, is actively under development, or substantial construction has
occurred as defined in Section 1.0500.
2) A one-year extension may be granted by the original decision maker upon finding
that:
a) The applicant has demonstrated that the application is still in compliance
with all applicable regulations and standards
b) There are no changes to the project
c) There are still adequate public facilities and services and roadway
capacity to service the project
3) An extension request shall be submitted in writing at least 30 days prior to the
expiration of the approval.
4) A five-year extension may be granted by the original decision maker for
conditional use approvals for dike maintenance and related activities as such
approvals normally correspond with parallel state and/or federal permits.
5) A conditional use approval for a dwelling in the AF, EFU and F-80 zones shall
expire after four years unless the project is completed, is actively under
construction or substantial construction has occurred as defined in Section
1.0500.

Clatsop County Land and Water II-30 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
6) The original decision maker may grant a two-year extension for a conditional use
dwelling in the AF, EFU and F-80 upon finding that:
a) The applicant has demonstrated that the application is still in compliance
with all applicable regulations and standards
b) There are no changes to the project
c) There are still adequate public facilities and services and roadway
capacity to service the project
7) An extension request must be submitted in writing at least 30 days prior to
expiration of the approval.
8) In addition to the two-year extension above, the original decision maker may
approve no more than five additional one-year extensions of a conditional use
approval for a dwelling in the EFU, F-80 or AF zones if:
a) An extension request is submitted in writing prior to the expiration of an
extension;
b) The applicable residential development statute has not been amended
following the approval of the permit; and
c) An applicable rule or land use regulation has not been amended following
the issuance of the permit, unless allowed by the county, which may
require that the applicant comply with the amended rule or land use
regulation.
d) An extension of a permit under subsections (6-8) of this section is not a
land use decision as defined in ORS 197.015. [ORD. 23-02]

Clatsop County Land and Water II-31 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
SECTION 2.5000. MODIFICATIONS TO APPROVED PLANS AND CONDITIONS OF
APPROVAL [ORD. 26-05]
Section 2.5010. Purpose
The purpose of this section is to provide an efficient process for modifying land use
decisions and approved development plans.

Section 2.5020. Applicability
1) This section applies to the following development applications which have been
approved through the applicable provisions of this code:
(A) Site plan review
(B) Subdivisions and partitions
(C) Conditional uses
(D) Planned developments
(E) Temporary use permits
(F) Variances
(G) Conditions of approval applied to any of the above application types
2) This section does not apply to development code or comprehensive plan text or
map amendments.
3) Proposed modifications that meet the following are considered substantial and
are not considered modifications. Proposals meeting the thresholds below are
considered new proposals and shall require a new application, fee and review.
(A) A request to further reduce a dimensional standard already reduced by an
approved variance
(B) An increase in the number of dwelling units in a Planned Development
(C) Any modification not listed below as a Major or Minor Modification
(D) A change to any application that was approved or condition of approval
that was applied using a Type III procedure.

Section 2.5030. Major Modifications
1) Proposed modifications that meet the following thresholds are considered major:
(A) A new use is proposed
(B) A change is proposed to the approved use that would require additional
parking or generate additional traffic
(C) An increase in the number of dwelling units for projects that are not
Planned Developments
(D) A change in the type or location of access ways, drives or parking areas
that affect off-site traffic
(E) An increase in non-residential floor area by more than 25% of the
approved area
(F) A reduction of required open space that is more than 10% of the approved
open space
2) Procedure: The application shall be reviewed using the Type II review
procedures in Section 2.0080(2).

Clatsop County Land and Water II-32 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
(A) The applicant shall submit the following items:
i. Major Modification application form
ii. Required fee
iii. Revised documents showing all proposed modifications
iv. Documentation from a professional engineer describing impacts to
off-site traffic and proposed solutions for changes to access ways,
drives or parking that will affect off-site traffic
v. Revised conditions of approval, if applicable

Section 2.5040. Minor Modifications
1) Any modification to an approved application not listed above shall be processed
as a minor modification.
2) Procedure: The application shall be reviewed using the Type I review procedures
in Section 2.0080(1).
(A) The applicant shall submit the following items:
i. Minor Modification application form
ii. Required fee
iii. Revised documents showing all proposed modifications
iv. Revised conditions of approval, if applicable
SECTION 2.6000. DEVELOPMENTS AND USES OF THE SAME TYPE [ORD. 25-02]
Section 2.6010. Determination of Nature of Unlisted Developments and Uses
The Planning Commission shall examine the characteristics of uses not listed in any zone and
shall determine in which zone the use should be allowed and whether it should be allowed as a
permitted or conditional use. The Planning Commission shall base its decision on findings that
the development is consistent with the purposes of the zoning classification and is similar to the
types of development and use permitted or conditional in the zone. The decision shall be made
under a Type III procedure except that notice shall only be provided in newspapers of general
distribution.
Section 2.6020. Record of Determination
Unlisted uses for which the Planning Commission has made a determination as to
appropriate zone and type similarity shall be maintained in the Land Use Planning
Division, for future reference.

Clatsop County Land and Water II-33 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
SECTION 2.7000. COASTAL ZONE CONSISTENCY REVIEW
Section 2.7010. Applicability
This section applies to the following activities that directly affect the coastal zone:
1) Actions requiring federal permits or licenses
2) Federal activities and development projects
3) Outer continental shelf activities
4) Federal grants or financial assistance.
Section 2.7020. Consistency Review Procedure for Activities Requiring State or
Federal Permits or Licenses
Applicants for activities in Clatsop County's coastal zone which require a state or federal
permit or license shall submit to the Community Development Director a copy of the
completed permit application, other supporting material provided to the permit granting
agency and a set of findings which demonstrate that the development would be
consistent with the applicable elements of the Comprehensive Plan and this Ordinance.
If the activity requires a local permit, the applicant shall apply for the local permit under
the established permit program. Approval of the permit shall constitute a ruling that the
action is consistent with the applicable elements of the Comprehensive Plan and
Ordinance. If the action does not require a local permit, the County may make an
investigation to provide information on the project's conformance with the Plan and
Ordinance standards and provisions. The investigation can be done administratively or
through public hearings.
The Community Development Director shall respond to the state or federal public permit
granting agency within seven working days of the local actions. The response shall
contain a statement of whether the permit is consistent with the applicable elements of
the Comprehensive Plan, the reasons development is or is not consistent, standards
and conditions which apply if the permit is granted, and the need for local permits for
developments associated with the activity.
Section 2.7030. Consistency Review Procedure for Federal Activities and
Development Projects
Federal activities in the Coastal Zone are not subject to the established local permit
procedures. Federal activities which directly affect the coastal zone of the county must
be consistent, to the maximum extent practicable, with the coastal zone management
program. The coastal zone management programs include the County's
Comprehensive Plan and this Ordinance. The federal consistency determination is
reviewed by the Oregon Department of Land Conservation and Development.
Consistency determinations for federal activities shall be reviewed for conformance with
the mandatory enforceable policies of the County's Comprehensive Plan and
Ordinance. The review may be done administratively or through public hearings. The

Clatsop County Land and Water II-34 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
federal agency has the option of applying for a local permit to demonstrate consistency
with the Plan and Ordinance.
The Community Development Director shall communicate concurrence or disagreement
with the consistency determination, and recommendations for conditions of project
approval to the Oregon Department of Land Conservation and Development within 21
days of receiving the notice for reviewing the federal consistency determination.
Section 2.7040. Outer Continental Shelf Activities
Federally licensed or permitted activities described in Outer Continental Shelf plans and
which affect Clatsop County's coastal zone shall be conducted in a manner consistent
with the coastal zone management program. The applicant's consistency certification is
reviewed by the Department of Land Conservation and Development. The Community
Development Director may review these activities for consistency with the Plan and
Zoning Ordinance. The review may be done administratively or through public hearings.
The Community Development Director may communicate concurrence or disagreement
with the consistency certification to the Oregon Department of Land Conservation and
Development within the time specified on the Oregon Department of Land Conservation
and Development notice for the activities.
Section 2.7050. Federal Grants and Financial Assistance
Federal financial assistance of grants to state agencies, cities, counties, special
purpose districts, or regional bodies, for activities which affect the coastal zone shall be
granted only when the activities are consistent with the coastal zone management
program. The Community Development Director may review the grants and financial
assistance for consistency with the Plan and Ordinance. The review may be done
administratively or through public hearings. The Community Development Director may
communicate the review findings to the Intergovernmental Relations Division
Clearinghouse within the time specified on the Clearinghouse notice.

Clatsop County Land and Water II-35 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
SECTION 2.8000. VARIANCE
Section 2.8010. Purpose
The purpose of a variance is to provide relief when a strict application of the zoning
requirements would impose unnecessary hardships resulting from the size, shape, or
dimensions of a site or the location of existing structures; or from geographic,
topographic, or other factors listed below. [ORD. 26-05]

Section 2.8020. Type III Variance Criteria [ORD. 25-02] [ORD. 26-05]
1) A variance may be granted when the strict or literal application of a requirement
of this code would impose unusual practical difficulty on the applicant. Practical
difficulty may result from the size, shape, or dimensions of a site; the location of
existing structures; geographic, topographic or other physical conditions on the
site; or from street location or traffic conditions in the immediate vicinity. Undue
hardship upon adjacent property owners may also be considered. The Hearings
Officer may vary or adopt the strict application of any of the dimensional
requirements of this Ordinance as allowed below.
2) Variances will be processed under a Type III procedure pursuant to Section
2.0080(3). An applicant may request a variance before or after the denial of a
development permit.
3) Criteria for Decision. A variance to the dimensional requirements of this code
shall only be approved if all of the following criteria are met:
(A) Unique circumstances apply to the property, which do not apply to other
properties in the same zone or vicinity. The unique circumstances must
result from lot size or shape; topography, geology, or other circumstances
over which the applicant has no control. These circumstances must be
such that the strict application of the requirements of this Ordinance would
deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of the land and/or structure.
(B) Approval of a variance shall not result in impacts to the neighborhood or
community or be detrimental to public welfare or to public safety.
(C) The variance will not allow any development or use which is not permitted
by the Ordinance and would not grant the applicant any special privilege
that is denied to other lands, structures or buildings in the area.
(D) The variance request is not the result of a self-created hardship.
(E) Economic considerations do not constitute grounds for granting a
variance.
(F) Approval of variances for other properties shall not be considered
sufficient reason to approve a variance request.
(G) The variance requested is the minimum variance necessary to make
reasonable use of the property.
(H) The variance request does not result from a code violation.
Section 2.8020. Notification [ORD. 25-02]
In addition to the notice required to be sent to property owners pursuant to Section
2.0080(3), notice of variances to yard setbacks and height variances shall be sent to the

Clatsop County Land and Water II-36 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
fire district in which the property is served for review and comment. If a response is not
received by the Community Development Department within 20 days of the notice it will
be assumed that the District has no concerns regarding the request.
Section 2.8030. Type II administrative Variance Procedure [ORD. 26-05]
1) An administrative variance is the process under which the Director may grant
certain adjustments to specific LAWDUC requirements when the adjustment is
within the limitations and conditions stated in Subsections (3) and (4), below. An
administrative variance shall not be used to allow a use that is not permitted in
the zone.
2) Administrative variances will be processed under a Type II procedure pursuant to
Section 2.0080(2). An applicant may request an administrative variance before or
after the denial of a development permit.
3) Criteria for Decision. An administrative variance to the dimensional requirements
of this code shall only be approved if all of the following criteria are met:
(A) There are unique circumstances associated with the property (i.e., parcel
shape, steep slopes, etc…) that do not generally apply to other properties
in the same zone or neighborhood or the variance would result in more
efficient use of the site or protect a natural feature.
(B) Approval of the variance would allow the property to be developed in a
manner similar to other properties in the zone.
(C) Strict or literal application of the code requirement9s) would prevent
development.
(D) The variance request is not based on economic considerations.
(E) Approval of the variance would not result in negative impacts to the
surrounding area.
(F) The requested variance is the minimum needed to allow the proposed
development.
4) Administrative variances are only allowed for the following dimensional standards
and are limited to the following maximum adjustments:
(A) Lot size: 20%. Allowed only in the rural communities of Arch Cape, Miles
Crossing/Jeffers Gardens, Knappa-Svensen, and Westport.
(B) Lot width: 20%
(C) Lot depth: 20% or a 1:3.6 width to depth ratio
(D) Lot coverage: 20%
(E) Building height: 20%; an administrative variance is not permitted for
oceanfront lots
(F) Parking: 20%
(G) Fences and walls: 20%
(H) Setbacks: 20%, with no setback of less than 5 feet
i. Administrative variances are not allowed for:
a. Side yard setback when the required setback is five feet or less
b. Riparian vegetation buffers and setbacks
c. Goal 16 shoreland overlay buffers

Clatsop County Land and Water II-37 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
Section 2.8040. Expiration/Extension
Authorization of a Type II or Type III variance shall be void after 18 months unless
substantial construction, as defined in Section 1.0050, has occurred.
SECTION 2.8100. ZONE CHANGES
Section 2.8110. Purpose
This section provides the criteria for amending the boundaries of any base zone or
overlay district delineated on the official Clatsop County “Comprehensive Plan/Zoning
Map”. A change in a base zone or overlay district may be made according to the criteria
set forth in Section 2.8120.

The process for changing a base zone designation or overlay district that does not
involve a change to the comprehensive plan or comprehensive plan designation shall
be a Type III procedure. All changes involving comprehensive plan amendments or
comprehensive plan designation shall be a Type IV procedure. Changes to a base zone
or overlay district may be initiated by the governing body, Planning Commission, or by
petition of a majority of property owners in the area proposed for change. Mailed notice
of the hearing shall include the owners of property within (250) feet of the area
proposed for change. If the change involves a Goal 5 resource, a Plan amendment
must also be requested and the Goal 5 Administrative Rule used to justify the decision.
Section 2.8120. Zone Change Criteria
The governing body shall approve a non-legislative zone designation change if it finds
compliance with Section 1.1040, and all of the following criteria:
1) The proposed change is consistent with the policies of the Clatsop County
Comprehensive Plan.
2) The proposed change is consistent with the statewide planning goals (ORS 197).
3) The property in the affected area will be provided with adequate public facilities
and services including, but not limited to:
(A) Parks, schools and recreational facilities
(B) Police and fire protection and emergency medical service
(C) Solid waste collection
(D) Water and wastewater facilities
4) The applicant shall demonstrate consistency with the Transportation Planning
Rule, specifically by addressing whether the proposed amendment creates a
significant effect on the transportation system pursuant to OAR 660-012-0060. If
required, a Traffic Impact Study (TIS) shall be prepared in accordance with
Section 2.9500.
5) The proposed change will not result in over-intensive use of the land, will give
reasonable consideration to the character of the area, and will be compatible with
the overall zoning pattern.
(6) The proposed change gives reasonable consideration to peculiar suitability of the
property for particular uses.
(7) The proposed change will encourage the most appropriate use of land

Clatsop County Land and Water II-38 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
throughout Clatsop County.
(8) The proposed change will not be detrimental to the health, safety and general
welfare of Clatsop County.

Section 2.8130. Effective Date of Zone Changes
A change in a zone or special purpose district designation of an area shall take effect
thirty (30) days after the date of approval, unless adopted by emergency clause.

Clatsop County Land and Water II-39 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
SECTION 2.8200. TEMPORARY USE PERMITS [ORD. 25-02]
Section 2.8210. Purpose and Intent
The temporary use permit section provides procedures and standards for land or
structures which possess unique characteristics requiring special consideration for
temporary usage. The provisions of this section are to apply when the proposed use
does not qualify as a continuation of a non-conforming use.

No temporary permit shall be granted which would have the effect of creating a
permanent rezoning or result in a hardship when the use is not permitted to continue at
the expiration of the permit periods. Further, no temporary permit may be granted which
has the effect of conferring a special privilege for which other property within the same
zone may not be equally eligible.
Section 2.8230. Permitted Temporary Uses, Criteria and Limitations [ORD. 25-02]
The following temporary uses may be permitted under a Type I procedure. A temporary
use permit may be issued in any zone, subject to the General Standards of subsection
2.8240 and subject to the condition provisions of subsection 2.8250.
1) Temporary Structures. A use requiring a new temporary structure, such as
temporary construction trailers or storage containers kept on-site during
construction
2) Seasonal sales of items such as Christmas trees, pumpkins and fireworks for a
period not to exceed 90 days.
3) Open Land Uses. Open land uses which do not involve structures or involve
structures which create an improvement value to the combined land and
structures of less than $1,000.
4) Manufactured dwelling or recreational vehicle for a period not to exceed one
year, used during the construction of a residential structure for which a building
permit has been issued.
5) Real estate office in a legally recorded subdivision.
Section 2.8240. General Standards [ORD. 25-02]
The following standards shall be utilized by the Community Development Director, or
designee, to review an application for a temporary use permit:
1) A proposed use shall be compatible with and will not negatively impact abutting
properties and the surrounding community.
2) The proposed use will not be impacted by permitted development of abutting
properties and the surrounding vicinity.
3) The following criteria shall also be considered:
(A) The building height, lot coverage, and density;
(B) The availability of public facilities and utilities;
(C) The generation of traffic and the capacity of surrounding streets and
roads;

Clatsop County Land and Water II-40 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
(D) The creation of noise, vibration, odors, or other similar nuisances;
(E) Impacts to Goal 5 inventoried resources and coastal resources identified
in Goals 16-18.
(F) No temporary use permit shall be granted which is inconsistent with the
purpose and intent set forth in subsection 2.8210 or is inconsistent with
the goals set forth in subsection 2.8220.
Section 2.8250. Conditions [ORD. 25-02]
1) Required Conditions. All temporary permits issued by the Community
Development Director shall be subject to the following conditions:
(A) Time Limit. Temporary permits shall be granted for no longer than a one
(1) year period of time.
(B) Temporary Permit Renewal. Temporary permits may be renewed up to
four (4) times.
2) Additional Conditions.
(A) The Community Development Director may attach conditions to temporary
use permits in addition to those conditions enumerated in the applicable
paragraphs of subsection 2.8250(1). of this section. Those conditions may
include, but are not limited to:
1) Setbacks, special yards, and spaces;
2) Screening, fences, and walls;
3) Off-street parking and loading;
Control of points of vehicular ingress and egress;
4) Construction standards and maintenance.
Section 2.8260. Revocation [ORD.25-02]
1) Basis for Revocation. Except as provided in subsection (2), temporary use
permits are automatically revoked and void without special action if:
(A) The permit has not been exercised within six (6) months of the date of
approval; or
(B) The use approved by the temporary permit is discontinued for any reason
for six (6) continuous months, or more; or
(C) The applicant does not comply with the conditions imposed on a
temporary permit does not adhere to the plan as approved.
(D) Standing to Request Hearing. A hearing for revocation of a temporary
permit may be requested of the Hearings Officer by an affected citizen or
by an administrative officer of the County who is of the opinion that one or
all of the basis for revocation as stated in subsection (1) exists. Requests
for revocation hearings shall be accomplished by submitting a letter to the
Hearings Officer stating the basis for requesting the hearing for
revocation. The Hearings Officer shall then set a hearing for the
revocation if it so determines a hearing is warranted.
(E) Hearing Procedure. Public hearing, notification, and appeal procedures for
revocation hearings by the Hearings Officer and the Board of
Commissioners shall be held subject to Section 2.0080(3) of this

Clatsop County Land and Water II-41 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
Ordinance.

Clatsop County Land and Water II-42 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
SECTION 2.9000. SUBDIVISIONS, PARTITIONS AND PROPERTY LINE
ADJUSTMENTS [ORD. 25-02]
Section 2.9010. Purpose
In accordance with the provisions of ORS 92 and 215, this section establishes the
minimum standards to divide land, including subdivisions, partitions and property line
adjustments. These standards are necessary to carry out the County's Comprehensive
Plan and to promote the public health, safety and general welfare.
Section 2.9020. Applicability. (Ord. 21-05)
Whenever land owners wish to sell part of a lawfully established unit of land, or place a
second home on a lawfully established unit of land that already has a home on it, a
partition or subdivision is necessary. The following activities do not require approval of a
subdivision or partition:
1) A division of land resulting from a lien foreclosure of a recorded contract for the
sale of real property;
2) the creation of cemetery lots; or
3) a property line adjustment.

Land divisions can be in the form of partitions or subdivisions. No land shall be divided
prior to approval and recording of a partition or subdivision.
Oregon Revised Statutes (ORS) 92.025 states:
1) A person may not sell a lot in a subdivision or a parcel in a partition until the plat
of the subdivision or partition has been acknowledged and recorded with the
recording officer of the county in which the lot or parcel is situated.
2) A person may not sell a lot in a subdivision or a parcel in a partition by reference
to or exhibition or other use of a plat of the subdivision or partition before the plat
for the subdivision or partition has been so recorded. In negotiating to sell a lot in
a subdivision or a parcel in a partition under ORS 92.016(1) and (2), a person
may use the approved tentative plan for the subdivision or partition.

Section 2.9021. Construction Across Property Lines [ORD. 25-02]
Whenever abutting lawfully established units of land are in common ownership and the
land owner wishes to build on or near the common property line(s), an approved
restrictive covenant shall be recorded by the owner stating that the abutting units of land
shall remain in common ownership until such time as the buildings and common
property lines meet setback and building code requirements.  After recording the
restrictive covenant, the exterior boundary of the combined units of land shall be used
for applying the setback and building code requirements.  A recorded restrictive
covenant is not required for a building that meets setback and building code
requirements within the boundaries of a single unit of land abutting other units of land in
common ownership.

Clatsop County Land and Water II-43 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
Section 2.9022. Definitions
The following definitions apply to Section 2.9000:

Partitions are divided into two types, minor and major, depending on road access. For
the purposes of this Ordinance access ways shall be categorized as follows:
Private road -- an improved travel surface placed within a private road easement or
privately owned tract that is intended to provide access from a state, county, or public
road to three or more lots, parcels, or units of land and which is maintained by private
funds for the exclusive use of private parties.
Public road -- an improved travel surface placed within a dedicated public right-of-way
which is maintained by private funds.
County road -- an improved travel surface placed within a dedicated public right-of-way
which has been formally accepted by the county and is maintained by the county.
Minor Partitions -- occur when a tract of land is divided into no more than three (3)
parcels, including the parent parcel, in a calendar year when such tract of land existed
at the beginning of the year and each parcel has a minimum of 25 feet of frontage on a
state, county or public road and access to each parcel is taken from that frontage and
within that parcel. A minor partition shall be processed by the Director under a Type II
procedure as outlined in Section 2.9030 through 2.9080 of this Ordinance.
Major Partitions -- occur when a tract of land is divided into no more than three (3)
parcels, including the parent parcel, in a calendar year when such tract of land existed
at the beginning of the year and any parcel has less than 25 feet of frontage on a state,
county or public road. Any partition which requires the creation of a state, county or
public or private road or the utilization of a private road is also considered a major
partition. Both minor and major partitions shall be processed by the Director under a
Type II procedure as outlined in Section 2.9050 through 2.9130.
Property Line Adjustment -- is the relocation or elimination of all or a portion of the
common property line between abutting properties that does not create an additional lot,
parcel, or unit of land.
Subdivisions -- occur when a tract of land is divided into four (4) or more lots, including
the parent parcel, within a calendar year. A proposed subdivision for six (6) or less lots
shall be processed by the Director under a Type II procedure. Any larger subdivision
shall be processed by the Director under a Type III procedure. Section 2.9140 through
2.9300 of this Ordinance pertains to the processing of subdivision requests.

Clatsop County Land and Water II-44 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
Section 2.9030. Processing Property Line Adjustments [ORD. 21-05; ORD. 25-02]
Property line adjustments will be processed under a Type I procedure and include the
following steps:
1) Application Requirements: The applicant shall submit the following:
a. a tentative property line adjustment plan,
b. certificate from a land surveyor that abutting properties to be adjusted are
lawfully established units of land,
c. completed application and filing fee
The tentative property line adjustment shall follow the process below, unless
exempted by Section 2.9090.
2) Review Procedure: The Director or designee shall review the proposed property
line adjustment to ensure that each new parcel will meet the minimum lot size
and dimension standards required by the zone in which the property is located.
The proposed plan may be modified, if needed, to meet these standards. The
Director shall apply conditions as required by Section 2.9070 and shall approve,
conditionally approve, or deny the application.
3) Expiration: Approval of a property line adjustment shall be valid for two years
from the date of approval. The applicant must complete all conditions of approval
within two years or the approval shall expire.

An applicant may submit a written request to extend the expiration date by one
year. The request must state that the facts upon which the approval was based
have not changed to such an extent that a new application is required. The
applicant must also provide a written statement that no other development
approval would be affected by a one-year extension of the approval.

If all conditions of approval for a property line adjustment have not been
completed prior to expiration the approval shall be considered void.
4) A property line adjustment deed shall contain the names of the parties, the
description of the adjusted line, references to the original recorded documents
and signatures of all parties with proper acknowledgement, and contain the
words Property Line Adjustment.
5) A property line adjustment survey must list the clerk’s recording instrument
number of the corresponding property line adjustment deed(s) that conforms with
ORS 92.190(4) before the permanent survey map is submitted for recording per
ORS 209.250.
6) The area between the old property line and the new property line is combined
with the existing lawfully established unit of land on the same side of the new
property line and is not a separate lawfully established unit of land.
Section 2.9040. General Standards for Property Line Adjustments [ORD. 25-02]
1) For all areas except those identified as a Resource Zone in Section 1.0500 of
this Ordinance, all property which is the subject of a property line adjustment

Clatsop County Land and Water II-45 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
shall be located within the same zone.
2) For all areas except those zoned AF, F-80 and EFU:
(A) Property line adjustments may be allowed between undersized lots or
parcels in the above zones provided that the resulting lots or parcels
satisfy the minimum width, depth, frontage, lot width/depth ratio, yard
requirements of the zone and setbacks to existing structures are not
reduced by the property line adjustment below the minimum setback
requirements.
(B) Property line adjustments may be allowed between undersized lots or
parcels and lots or parcels that meet the minimum lot size provided the
undersized lot meets the requirements in (1) above, and the resulting
conforming lot or parcel if partitioned or subdivided would not result in a
density greater than the zone(s) in which the property has been
designated.
3) For all areas zoned AF, F-80 and EFU the adjustment may be approved
provided:
(A) the remaining substandard parcel is not used as a basis for considering
and approving a built upon or irrevocably committed exception, and
(B) the substandard parcel is not permitted to have more than one non-farm
or non-forest dwelling on it, and
(C) it is determined that the parcel proposed for transfer can be better
managed for resource use, and
(D) the parcel proposed for transfer may not be used in calculating the lot size
of a parcel or parcels for purposes of future land divisions.
Section 2.9050. Processing Minor and Major Partitions (Ord. 21-05, Ord. 25-02)
The processing of proposed minor and major partition requests shall be done using a
Type II procedure and will include the following steps:
1) The applicant shall submit a proposed partition plan, completed application and
filing fee, to the Community Development Department. The proposed partition
plan shall follow the process below, unless exempted by Section 2.9090.
2) Review Procedure: The Director or designee shall evaluate the proposed
partition plan to ensure that each new parcel will meet the minimum  lot size and
dimension standards required by the zone in which the property is located When
a partition is located within 750 feet of a state highway, the Community
Development Director  or designee will notify the Oregon Department of
Transportation (ODOT) of the application and will consider its comments in taking
action on the partition request. The proposed plan may be modified, if needed, to
meet these standards. The Director, through a Type II procedure in accordance
with Section 2.1020, shall apply conditions as required by Section 2.9050 and
shall approve, conditionally approve or deny the tentative plan.
3) Expiration: Conditional approval of a partition plan shall be valid for two years
from the date of approval. The applicant must complete all conditions of approval
and submit a final partition plat within two years or the approval shall expire. The

Clatsop County Land and Water II-46 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
final partition plat shall follow the format outlined in Section 2.9070.

An applicant may submit a written request to extend the expiration date by one
year. The request must state that the facts upon which the approval was based
have not changed to such an extent that a new application is required. The
applicant must also provide a written statement that no other development
approval would be affected by a one-year extension of the approval.

Any partition not completed prior to expiration of the tentative plan approval shall
be considered void.
4) The Director shall review the final partition plat to determine that it conforms with
the proposed plan and any applicable conditions. Prior to recording of any
partition plat, it must be approved by the County Surveyor.
5) If the Director or the County Surveyor determines that the partition plat submitted
does not conform to the proposed plan or applicable conditions, the applicant
shall be allowed to make corrections prior to the expiration date.
6) If the final partition plat conforms to the proposed plan and applicable conditions,
the County Surveyor and the Director shall sign and date the final plat. The
applicant will be notified that the plat is ready for recording in the County Clerk's
Office.
Section 2.9060. Appeal of Partitions or Property Line Adjustments (Ord. 25-02)
Appeals of a decision approving or denying a property line adjustment or partition plat
shall be processed according to the requirements of Section 2.0080 and 2.0090.
Section 2.9070. General Standards for Minor and Major Partitions (Ord. 21-05, Ord.
25-02)
Section 2.9071. Purpose: Land within resource zones is evaluated by different
standards than land in non-resource zones. This is because land divisions in resource
zones are considered to be primarily for resource use in resource areas, not for
development. Specific road improvement standards are not required except for cluster
land divisions, which are evaluated as residential parcels since their purpose is for
residential use. As a condition of approving residences as conditional uses in resource
zones, road improvements will be required.
1) Partitions within resource zones:
(A) Minor Partitions shall meet the following standards:
1) Road approach approval from the appropriate agency shall be
provided.
2) Clustering in resource zones shall be subject to the standards for
partitioning of non-resource lands in (2) below as well as any other
applicable standards.
3) Comprehensive Plan Goal 4 (Forest Lands), Policy D, shall be
applied to all AF and F-80 partitions.

Clatsop County Land and Water II-47 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
(B) Major Partitions shall meet the following standards:
1) Standards in Section 2.9070(1)(A)(1-3) above shall be met.
(a)  If a County road is created, the right-of-way and travel
surface shall meet the applicable standards in Table 3.2.
The boundaries of the road right-of-way shall be surveyed
and monumented. The Board of Commissioners must accept
the County right-of-way.
b) If a public road is created, the right-of-way and travel surface
shall meet the applicable standards in Table 3.2 and the
boundaries of the road right-of-way shall be surveyed and
monumented.
c) If a private road or easement is created or utilized, the
easement and travel surface shall meet the applicable
standards from Table 3.2. Easements which bind all involved
property owners and which specify the perpetual, non-
exclusive nature of the roadway easement shall be signed
and recorded with the County Clerk.
2) Partitions outside resource zones:
(A) Minor Partitions shall meet the following standards:
1) Road approach approval from the appropriate agency shall be
provided.
2) Except as set out in Section 2.9090(1) the boundaries of all parcels
shall be surveyed and monumented.
(B) Major Partitions shall meet the following standards
1) Standards in 2.9070(2)(A)(1-2) above shall be met.
(a) If a County Road is created, the right-of-way and travel
surface shall meet the applicable standards in Table 3.2.
The boundaries of the road right-of-way shall be surveyed
and monumented. All such roads shall be improved at least
to the County’s A-20 road standard. The Board of
Commissioners must accept the County right-of-way.
(b) If a public road is created, the right-of-way and travel surface
shall meet the applicable standards in Table 3.2 and the
boundaries of the road right-of-way shall be surveyed and
monumented. The road shall be improved to the County's G-
20 road standard at a minimum. An agreement shall be
signed and recorded with the County Clerk outlining the
responsibility of the private parties maintaining the road
improvements. These maintenance responsibilities shall be
enforced by the individual parties or the County at its
discretion.
(c) If a private road or easement is created, the entire road
easement and travel surface shall meet the applicable
standards in Table 3.2 and the boundaries of the road

Clatsop County Land and Water II-48 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
easement shall be surveyed and monumented in its entirety.
The road shall be improved to the County's G-14 road
standard at a minimum and one vehicle turnout shall be
provided for every 400’ of road and within 50' of each sight
obscuring corner. If the travel surface width of the private
road exceeds 20 feet no turnouts will be required.
Easements which bind all involved property owners and
which specify the perpetual, non-exclusive nature of the road
way easement shall be signed and recorded with the County
Clerk. An agreement shall also be signed and recorded with
the County Clerk outlining the responsibilities of the private
parties maintaining the road improvements. These
maintenance responsibilities shall be enforced by the
individual parties and not the County.
(d) Any required road improvements shall meet the applicable
road standards from Section 3.9800. Required road
improvements shall be completed or bonded prior to the sale
of any of the partitioned parcels. If the partitioning party
intends to retain ownership of a partitioned parcel, required
road improvements shall be completed prior to the issuance
of any development permit involving the partitioned parcel.
Road improvements must be completed to the extent
necessary to provide legal access to the parcel proposed for
sale or for second home placement. If the partitioning party
has not completed required road improvements at the time
of final partition approval, the partitioning party shall record a
development restriction upon the involved parcels to require
the completion of these improvements prior to the sale of the
parcels or prior to the issuance of a development permit to
the partitioning party; whichever comes first. The restriction
will be removed upon completion of the improvements prior
to the sale of the parcels or prior to the issuance of any
development permit involving the partitioned parcel.
(e) In areas where the parcel or lot has the potential to be
further partitioned or subdivided, the County Engineer or
Community Development Director shall require that roads be
designed and located so as to facilitate the future division of
land in a manner that accommodates smaller lot sizes and
the extension of streets and utilities. The County Engineer or
the Community Development Director may require a
potential development plat showing the location of potential
lots and the right-of-way improvements, including those
identified in the County Transportation System Plan (TSP).
The full right-of-way width shall be reserved on the initial

Clatsop County Land and Water II-49 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
partition plan to ensure that future structures will not
encroach into the ultimate right-of-way or easement area.
Section 2.9080. Extent of Road Improvements (Ord. 21-05, Ord 25-02)
1) Required access road improvements and recorded access easements shall be
designed to provide access from the partitioned parcels to an existing public,
county or state road.
Section 2.9090. Exceptions to General Standards for Minor and Major Partitions
and Property Line Adjustments (Ord. 21-05, Ord. 25-02)
1) Surveys for Large Parcel Partitions and Property Line Adjustments.
(A) When a partition is proposed which includes parcels that are greater than
10 acres in size no survey of the parcel is required. However, a partition
plat must still be submitted and approved. For a major partition the entire
roadway being created shall be surveyed and monumented.
(B) A property line adjustment created by the relocation of a common
boundary as described in ORS 92.010(7)(b) shall be surveyed and
monumented in accordance with Oregon law and it shall be filed with the
County Surveyor.
(C) No survey or monumentation is required for a property line adjustment
when the abutting properties are each greater than 10 acres. Nothing in
this subsection shall exempt Clatsop County from minimum area
requirements established in the Clatsop County Comprehensive Plan and
this Ordinance.
(D) Altering Access to Improve Public Safety. If, in reviewing a partition
application, the County Engineer or State Highway Engineer, determines
that a consolidated, single access would better serve the public health,
safety and welfare by reducing access points onto a public road, such a
condition of approval shall be required. The area utilized for a
consolidated access shall not be excluded from a parcel's lot area for the
purpose of determining minimum lot size. A consolidated access shall
serve a minimum of 3 parcels. If future partitions will use a consolidated
access, major partition road standards will be applied. Access easements
shall be provided for the involved parcels.
(E) A shared common driveway may be utilized in a proposed minor partition
if the following circumstances exist:
(F) Each parcel has the required 25-foot minimum frontage on a state, county
or public road.
(G) Each parcel has an alternate means of access to the adjoining state,
county or public road within its own boundaries.
(H) The shared common driveway serves no more than three parcels.
(I) Recorded access easements shall be provided for the subject parcels.

Clatsop County Land and Water II-50 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
Section 2.9100. Tentative Partition Plan Submission Requirements (Ord. 21-05,
Ord. 25-02)
An applicant for a minor or major partition shall submit a copy of the proposed plan for
partitioning, which shall include the following information (except as otherwise provided
herein, the following does not require a survey):
1) A sketch of the original parcel of land (all contiguously owned land) on an 8 ½" x
11" sheet of paper.
2) The date, north arrow, and scale of the drawing.
3) The amount of acreage in the original parcel and the acreage of the resulting
parcels, and dimensions of all parcels.
4) The location, names and widths of all roads and easements adjacent to and
within the parcel to be partitioned.
5) The existing use or uses of the property, including approximate locations of all
structures on the property.
6) The width and location of all easements for drainage or public utilities.
7) The location of zoning boundaries on the property.
8) Approximate location of physical features on the property, such as wetlands and
streams.
Section 2.9110. Submission of Final Partition Plat
Prior to expiration of a partition approval, a final plat shall be submitted subject to the
Standards of Section 2.9210.
Section 2.9120. Submission and Review of Final Plat (Ord. 25-02)
Once a final plat has been submitted, the Director shall have 10 days to determine
whether the final plat conforms with the approved plan and with the applicable
requirements of this Ordinance. If the Director determines that the final plat does not
conform, the applicant shall be offered an opportunity to make corrections. When the
plat is found to conform, it shall be signed and dated by the Director if all other
conditions of approval have been fulfilled.
Section 2.9130. Approval Signature for Final Partition Plat (Ord. 21-05, Ord. 25-02)
Following review and approval of a final partition plat, the Director shall take the
following actions:
1) The Community Development Department shall notify the applicant that the
approved partition plat has been signed by the Community Development
Director.
2) Obtain the approval signature of the County Surveyor certifying the plat complies
with all applicable survey laws. If it is determined that there has been a failure to
comply, the plat surveyor shall be notified and afforded an opportunity to make
corrections. When the plat is found to conform, it shall be signed and dated by
the County Surveyor.
3) The County Surveyor shall notify the applicant that the approved partition plat
has been signed. The applicant shall take the plat to the County Assessment and

Clatsop County Land and Water II-51 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
Taxation Office for review of payment of taxes. Assessment and Taxation shall
notify the applicant that all taxes must be paid prior to recording the final plat with
the County Clerk. The private surveyor shall provide a signature line on the final
plat for the County Assessor/Tax Collector. Assessment and Taxation shall notify
the applicant when the Plat is ready for recording.
4) The applicant shall take the final partition plat to the County Clerk's Office for
recording.
Section 2.9140. Subdivisions (Ord. 21-05, Ord. 25-02)
An application for a subdivision of six (6) or less lots shall be processed by the Director
under a Type II procedure. Any larger subdivision shall be processed by a Type III
procedure. A subdivision occurs when four (4) or more lots are created, including the
parent parcel, within a calendar year.
1) No one subdivision, contiguous group of subdivisions or planned development
shall create greater than 30 lots within the same calendar year, (January 1-
December 31), in the Rural Lands designation in the Clatsop Plains planning
area.
Section 2.9150. Preliminary Plat (Ord. 21-05, Ord. 25-02)
An applicant for a subdivision shall submit one paper copy and one electronic (pdf) copy
of the preliminary plat, together with improvement plans and other supplementary
information required by this Ordinance to demonstrate compliance with the subdivision
standards in this ordinance.
Section 2.9160. Form and Scale of Preliminary Plat (Ord. 21-05, Ord. 25-02)
The preliminary plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn. It shall show all pertinent
information to scale so that the Commission may have an adequate understanding of
what is proposed during the review process. Under ordinary circumstances, the scale of
the drawing is to be 1” = 50’ or 1” = 100’, or for areas over 100 acres the scale shall be
1” = 200’.
Section 2.9170. Preliminary Plat Information (Ord. 21-05, Ord. 25-02)
The Preliminary Plat of the proposed subdivision shall include the following information:
1) Proposed name of subdivision. Subdivision plat names shall be subject to the
approval of the County Surveyor or, in the case where there is no County
Surveyor, the County Assessor. No tentative subdivision plan or subdivision plat
of a subdivision shall be approved which bears a name similar to or pronounced
the same as the name of any other subdivision in the same county, unless the
land platted is contiguous to and platted by the same party that platted the
subdivision bearing that name or unless the party files and records the consent of
the party that platted the contiguous subdivision bearing that name. All
subdivision plats must continue the lot numbers of the subdivision plat of the
same name last filed. On or after January 1, 1992, any subdivision submitted for
final approval shall not use block number or letters unless such subdivision is a

Clatsop County Land and Water II-52 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
continued phase of a previously recorded subdivision, bearing the same name,
that has previously used block numbers or letters.
2) North arrow, scale, and date of the completed drawing, approximate acreage,
and boundary lines.
3) Appropriate identification clearly stating the map is a Preliminary Plat.
4) Location of the subdivision by section, township, range, tax lot or lots and
donation land claim sufficient to define the location and boundaries of the
proposed subdivision.
5) Names, addresses and zip codes of all owners, applicants, engineers and
surveyors responsible for laying out the subdivision.
6) Existing locations, widths, names of both opened and unopened streets within or
adjacent to the subdivision, together with easements, or rights-of-way and other
important features, such as section lines, corners, city boundary lines and
monuments.
7) A vicinity map showing the relationship of the proposed subdivision to
surrounding development, streets, and sewer and water services, within one-
quarter (1/4) mile of the exterior boundaries of the proposed development.
8) Location of at least one (1) temporary bench mark within the plat boundaries.
9) Contour lines related to the temporary bench mark or other datum approved by
the County Engineer and having contour intervals together with the calculated
degrees of slope as follows:
(A) For slopes less than 10 percent: two-foot contours.
(B) For slopes over 10 percent: five-foot contours.
(C) Location of significant natural features such as rock outcroppings,
marshes, wooded areas and isolated trees to be preserved or removed.
(D) Location of any rare, threatened and endangered species (plant or animal)
or habitat located on or within 1,000 feet of the proposed subdivision.
(E) Location and direction of all water courses and/or bodies and the location
of all areas subject to flooding.
(F) Existing uses on the property, including location of all existing structures.
(G) Location, width, name, approximate grade, and radii of curves of all
proposed streets, their relationship of such streets to any projected or
existing streets adjoining the proposed subdivision. The applicant shall
submit documented preliminary approval, from the County Engineer, of
the road design.
(H) Location, width, and purpose of proposed easements and private roads for
private use, where permitted, and all reservations or restrictions relating to
such easements and private roads.
(I) Proposed plan for draining surface water, including the location and type
of drainage ways to carry surface water from the development without
adversely affecting adjacent properties. If any filling is proposed, the
drainage plan must demonstrate that adequate provisions have been
made for the prevention of backup or ponding of surface water on
adjacent properties as well as within the proposed development.

Clatsop County Land and Water II-53 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
(J) Location, acreage and dimensions of lots and the proposed lot numbers.
(K) Site, if any, allocated for a purpose other than single-unit dwellings. [ORD.
25-16]
(L) Location, acreage and dimensions of areas proposed for public use.
(M) Location, acreage and dimensions of areas proposed for common open
space (30% in the Rural Lands designation of the Clatsop Plains planning
area).
(N) Any subdivision may be platted in as many as three (3) phases. All phases
must be submitted on the Preliminary Plat with proposed time limitations
for the recording of the various phases. However, phasing must meet the
following time limitations:
(O) Phase I - shall be recorded within 12 months of preliminary approval.
(P) Phase II - shall be recorded within 36 months of preliminary approval.
(Q) Phase III - shall be recorded within 60 months of preliminary approval.

The Planning staff shall review each phase prior to recording to make sure the
phase, as recorded, is in accord with the preliminary approval given by the
Planning Commission. Any submitted phase which does not coincide with the
approval as given by the Planning Commission shall be referred to the Planning
Commission for a hearing. At such hearing, the Commission shall have the
authority to revoke, revise, amend or alter the prior approval. Notice shall be sent
subject to Sections 2.0070 and 2.0080(3).

For any subdivision which has an approved phasing plan as granted by the
Commission under the preliminary plat approval, all parts of the subdivision shall
fall under control of the various Ordinances in effect at the time of preliminary
approval, unless state or local law shall determine that newer or current
Ordinances or laws are to be followed.

If any time limitation is exceeded, preliminary approval for the subdivision or any
phase of the subdivision shall be void. The applicant shall submit any future
proposals for development of the property to the Commission for approval.

Agreement for improvements for each phase shall comply with this Ordinance
prior to the final plat approval of such phase. If a bond is required, such bond
shall be for a sum determined by the County Engineer to be sufficient to cover
costs of construction for that phase.
10) Technical documentation shall be supplied to the Commission by the subdivider
at the time of submittal of the preliminary plat, addressing the following items:
(A) An acceptable and approved method of sewage disposal for each
proposed lot which meets the rules and regulations of the Oregon
Department of Environmental Quality as administered by the
Environmental Health Division of the County Public Health Department or
its contract agent.

Clatsop County Land and Water II-54 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
(B) An acceptable and approved method of water supply.
(C) The nature and type of improvements proposed for the subdivision, and a
timetable for their installation.
(D) A description of community facilities which would serve the subdivision,
and a timetable for the completion or installation of the facilities.
(E) Where a surface or subsurface water problem may exist, as determined
by the Department of Environmental Quality, Environmental Health
Division of the County Public Health Department, or other qualified
specialist, a complete report by an independent, qualified hydrologist or
hydrogeologist or other qualified specialist shall be required prior to any
hearing on the Preliminary Plat by the Commission. The cost for such
study shall be paid by the applicant.
(F) Applicants shall provide a list of any conditions, covenants and restrictions
(CCRs) which are to be recorded.
(G) A demonstration that lot size and use are in compliance with the
applicable zone.
(H) An access road improvement plan.
(I) Recorded access easements shall be provided for access from the
subdivision boundary to an existing public, county or state road if not
abutting said roads.
11) Compliance with the Clatsop County Comprehensive Plan and Land and Water
Development and Use Code, and ORS 92 and 215.
12) Notations indicating any limitations on rights-of-access to or from streets and lots
or other parcels of land proposed by the developer or established by the Board.
13) An estimate from the Clatsop County Assessor on taxes to be paid on a
proposed subdivision before recording the final plat shall take place in
accordance with ORS 92.095.
14) If any federal or state permit or license is required to carry out the preliminary plat
approval, approval shall be subject to a condition requiring the subdivision to
comply with any applicable federal and state laws.
15) In areas subject to the geologic hazard overlay zone, a grading plan prepared in
conformance with Section 5.3000.
Section 2.9180. Preliminary Plat Review (Ord. 21-05, Ord. 25-02)
1) Upon receipt of a completed preliminary plat, the Planning Division shall set a
date for a public hearing before the Planning Commission. Copies of the
preliminary plat shall be furnished to all affected city, county, state and federal
agencies and special districts for review and comment. Failure to provide written
comment to the Planning Division within 15 working days of the date of the notice
may be deemed a recommendation for approval unless an additional review
period is requested by the jurisdiction and approved.
2) The preliminary plat, supplementary information and recommendations of the
Planning staff and other reviewing agencies shall be submitted to the
Commission for review at a public hearing. The Commission shall review the plat

Clatsop County Land and Water II-55 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
and other data submitted, taking action upon the proposal within 60 days from
the date of the first hearing at which the request was heard.
3) The Commission may approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the proposed
subdivision. The Commission may attach conditions of approval necessary to
ensure compliance with the provisions of this Ordinance. The Commission may
require the developer to post a bond of an amount set by the County Engineer,
for all improvements or construction within the proposed subdivision. The
Commission may also require the subdivider to file a map within 30 days of the
date of conditional approval showing the design approved by the Planning
Commission.
4) If the Commission has approved or conditionally approved a subdivision, it shall
make specific findings indicating that sufficient water supply is available, that
each lot has an approved sewage disposal site or will have access to an area for
sewage disposal, and that an approved road system will provide access or will be
constructed to provide access to each lot in the subdivision. In addition to those
specific findings, the Commission shall make its findings in regard to the
applicable standards as set forth in Section 2.9140 to and including Section
2.9170 and Sections 3.9600 through 3.9720 of this Ordinance, and the road
standards as set forth in Section 3.9800.
5) Preliminary plat approval shall be binding on the Commission and the subdivider
for the purpose of preparing the final plat, provided that there are no changes of
the plan of the subdivision, and that it complies with all conditions as set forth by
the Commission in its preliminary approval. Approval of preliminary plat shall be
valid for two (2) years from the date of the approval of the preliminary plat.
Section 2.9190. Granting of Extensions (Ord. 21-05, Ord. 25-02)
1) The Community Development Director may grant an extension of up to 12
months to the preliminary plat approval and of up to 12 months to any subdivision
being developed in phases. The Director shall have the authority to attach
conditions necessary to carry out the provisions of the Comprehensive Plan and
this Ordinance but in no event shall more than two  extensions be granted by the
Community Development Director. Any request for an extension shall be
processed under a Type I procedure.
2) An applicant who is developing a subdivision in phases may seek an extension of
time from the Director on the phase then under development. The Director,
based upon the facts presented by the applicant, may grant an extension of time
of up to 12 months. This extension of time shall not affect any other phases not
under development.
3) Approval of an extension shall be noted on two copies of the preliminary plat,
including any conditions imposed. One signed copy is to be given to the applicant
while the other copy is retained in the Planning Division file.
Section 2.9200. Submission of Final Plat (Ord. 21-05, Ord. 25-02)
Within two years after approval of the preliminary plat, or within such time as set forth by

Clatsop County Land and Water II-56 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
the Commission under the provisions of Section 2.9190(2) of this Ordinance, the
subdivider shall have the land surveyed and a plat prepared which complies with the
approved preliminary plat. Before approval by any County official, the final plat shall be
approved and signed by all persons and must also have the signature and seal of the
registered professional land surveyor responsible for laying out of the subdivision. All
signatures must be made with archival quality black ink.
Section 2.9210. Form and Scale of Final Plat (Ord. 21-05, Ord. 25-02)
1) The final plat offered for approval and recording shall be made pursuant to the
standards in Section 3.9730and shall be surveyed pursuant to ORS 92.
2) At the time of filing the final plat, the surveyor who made the plat shall furnish the
County Clerk and/or County Surveyor with an exact copy of the final plat offered
for recording. This copy shall be made with archival quality black ink and shall
have the characteristics of strength and permanency required by the County
Clerk and County Surveyor, and shall have an affidavit that the tracing is an
exact copy of the plat.
3) The scale on the final plat will be 1” = 100’ or 1” = 50”. The scale may be
increased or decreased if necessary to fit the legal sized 18" x 24" plat, but in all
cases the scale shall be in multiples of ten.
4) The applicant shall provide, at the applicant’s expense, up to 6 prints at the
request of the Commission and/or Board.
5) Pursuant to ORS 92.080 and notwithstanding ORS 205.232 and 205.234, all
plats subdividing or partitioning land, and dedications of streets or roads or public
parks and squares and other writing made a part of such subdivision or partition
plats shall be made upon material that is 18 inches x 24 inches in size with an
additional three-inch binding edge on the left side when required by the County
Clerk or the County Surveyor, that is suitable for binding and copying purposes
and that has such characteristics of strength and permanency as may be
required by the County Surveyor. The lettering of the approvals, the declaration,
the surveyor’s certificate, and all other information shall be of such a size or type
as will be clearly legible, but no part shall come nearer any edge of the sheet
than one inch. The subdivision or partition plat may be placed on as many sheets
as necessary, but a face sheet and an index page shall be included for
subdivision or partitions plats placed upon three or more sheets.
6) In addition to standards and requirements of the Oregon Revised Statutes, the
County Surveyor may set other requirements for surveys of final plats including
but not limited to type of ink, how corrections are to be conducted, margins,
scale, etc.
Section 2.9220. Information on Final Plat (Ord. 21-05, Ord. 25-02)
The information shown on the final plat shall conform to the requirements in ORS
92.050 through 92.080 and shall also include the following:
1) The name of the subdivision, the date the plat was prepared, the scale, north
arrow, legend and existing features such as highways and railroads.

Clatsop County Land and Water II-57 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
2) Legal description of the subdivision boundaries.
3) Reference, by distance and bearings, to adjoining recorded surveys, if any, and
referenced to a field book or map as follows:
(A) Stakes, monuments or other evidence found on the ground and used to
determine the boundaries of the subdivision.
(B) Adjoining corners of adjoining subdivision.
(C) Other monuments found or established in making the survey of the
subdivision or required to be installed by provisions of this Ordinance.
(D) Exact location and width of streets and easements intersecting the
boundary of the subdivision.
(E) Subdivision boundaries, lot or tract boundaries, and street right-of-way
and centerlines with dimensions to the nearest 1/100th of a foot and
bearings in degrees, minutes and seconds, pursuant to the requirements
of ORS 92.
(F) Names and width of the portion of streets being dedicated, the width of
any existing right-of-way, and the width on each side of the center line. For
streets on curvature, curve data shall be based on the street center line. In
addition to the center line dimensions, the radius, central angle, long chord
bearing and distance shall be indicated.
(G) Easements denoted by fine dotted lines, clearly identified and, if already of
record, there shall be written statement of the easement. The width of the
easement, its length and bearing, and sufficient ties to locate the
easement with respect to the subdivision must be shown. If the easement
is being dedicated by the map, it shall be properly referenced in the
owner's certificates of dedication.
(H) Locations and widths of drainage channels, railroad rights-of-way, reserve
strips at the end of stubbed streets or along the edge of partial width
streets on the boundary of the subdivision.
(I) Location of all permanent monuments within the proposed subdivision.
(J) Ties to any city, county, or adjacent subdivision's boundary lines.
(K) Acreage of each parcel to the nearest 1/100th of an acre.
(L) Any conditions specified by the Commission or Board upon granting
preliminary approval.
(M) A statement of water rights noted on the subdivision plat or partition plat.
(N) A copy of the acknowledgment from the State Water Resources Dept.
under ORS 92.122, if the person offering the subdivision or partition plat
for filing indicates on the statement of water rights that a water right is
appurtenant to the subdivision or partition.
Section 2.9230. Survey Requirements
A complete and accurate survey of the land to be subdivided shall be made by a
registered professional land surveyor licensed to practice in the State of Oregon, in
accordance with ORS 92.

Clatsop County Land and Water II-58 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
Section 2.9240. Supplementary Information with Final Plat (Ord. 21-05, Ord. 25-02)
1) Evidence of Title. The Commission shall require Evidence of Title
accompanying the final plat by a letter or final plat report in the name of the
subdivider. Such evidence shall indicate that the title company has issued a
preliminary report for the same unit of land being subdivided and shall state that
the final plat and certificates have been reviewed.
2) Restrictive Covenants. A copy of any Restrictive Covenant(s) is to be filed with
the final plat. On final plats showing areas which will be jointly owned or used by
the various owners in the subdivision, a covenant document will be mandatory as
part of the final plat. For other final plats, the covenants are optional with the
subdivider.
3) Improvement Plans. Improvement plans shall be submitted for various facilities
that are to be constructed by the subdivider, including drainage plans, sewer
plans, water plans, curb and gutter, sidewalk and street plans, and any other
construction plans that may be required. These plans shall indicate design
criteria, assumptions and computations for proper analysis in accordance with
sound engineering practice. Where such plans are or would be the same as
those included in the County's Standard Specifications, they may be submitted
by reference to such Standard Specifications.
4) Dedication of Land, Rights, Easements, and Facilities for Public Ownership, Use
and Utility Purposes.
(A) Land for property dedicated for public purposes may be provided to the
county by any of the following methods:
1) By dedication on the land subdivision plat;
2) By dedication on the partition plat, provided that the county  indicates
acceptance on the dedication of the face of the plat; or
3) By a separate dedication or donation document on the form provided
by the county.
(B) All streets, pedestrian ways, drainage channels, easements and other
rights-of-way shown on the final plat as intended for public use, shall be
offered for dedication for public use at the time the final plat is filed.
(C) Rights of access to and from streets, lots and parcels shown on the final
plat shall not have final approval until such time as the County Engineer is
satisfied that the required street improvements are completed in
accordance with applicable standards and specifications. The applicant
must petition separately to the Board for acceptance of any dedicated
land, access rights or facilities. Acceptance of the final plat shall not be
construed as approval of dedicated land rights, easements or other
facilities.
(D) Reserve Strips. The Board may require a reserve strip in areas of the
subdivision in order to control access.
(E) Drainage Plan. The final plat shall be accompanied by a drainage plan
showing street grades, curbs, natural drainageways and other drainage
works in sufficient detail to enable the engineer to determine the adequacy

Clatsop County Land and Water II-59 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
of provisions for drainage and the disposal of surface and storm waters
within the subdivision and other adjoining areas. Subsequent changes to
the drainage plan may be approved by separate action by the Board after
receiving the recommendation by the County Engineer.
(F) Common Open Space. Maintenance of common open space shall be
subject to Section 3.3060.
(G) Road Standards. New roads shall comply with the following standards:
1) If a County Road is created, the right-of-way and travel surface shall
meet the standards from Table 3.2 and the boundaries of the road
right-of-way shall be surveyed and monumented. The road shall be
improved to a standard established by the Board of Commissioners. All
such roads shall be improved at least to the County’s A-20 road
standard.
2) If a public road is created, the right-of-way and travel surface shall
meet the standards from Table 3.2 and the boundaries of the road
right-of-way shall be surveyed and monumented. The road shall be
improved to the County’s A-20 road standard at a minimum for new
subdivisions. Existing subdivisions may qualify to construct a G-20
road if the existing roadways are not paved. An agreement shall be
signed and recorded with the County Clerk outlining the responsibility
of private parties maintaining the road improvements. These
maintenance responsibilities shall be enforced by the individual parties
or the County at its discretion.
3) If a private road or easement is created, the entire road easement and
travel surface shall meet the standards from Table 3.2 and the
boundaries of the road easement shall be surveyed and monumented
in its entirety. The road shall be improved to the County’s G-14 road
standard at a minimum and one vehicle turnout shall be provided for
every 400’ of road and within 50’ of each sight obscuring corner. If the
travel surface width of the private road exceeds 20 feet no turnouts will
be required. Easements which bind all involved property owners and
which specify the perpetual non-exclusive nature of the road way
easement shall be signed and recorded with the County Clerk. An
agreement shall also be signed and recorded with the County Clerk
outlining the responsibilities of the private parties maintaining the road
improvements. These maintenance responsibilities shall be enforced
by the individual parties and not by the County.
4) Any required road improvements shall meet the applicable road
standards in Section 3.9800. Required road improvements shall be
completed or bonded prior to the sale of any of the subdivided lots.
Section 2.9250. Agreement for Improvements (Ord. 21-05, Ord. 25-02)
The subdivider shall improve or agree to improve lands dedicated for streets, alleys,
pedestrian ways, drainage channels, easements and other rights-of-way to County

Clatsop County Land and Water II-60 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
Standards as a condition preceding the acceptance and approval of the final plat.

Before the Commission approval is certified on the final plat, the subdivider shall either
install required improvements and repair existing streets and other public facilities
damaged in the development of the subdivision; or shall execute and file with the Board
an agreement between the subdivider and the County specifying the period within which
required improvements and repairs shall be completed. The agreement shall provide
that if the work is not completed within the period specified, the County may complete
the work and recover the full cost and expense thereof from the subdivider.

A performance bond, as provided in Section 2.9260 of this Ordinance, shall be required
with such agreement. Provisions for the construction of the improvements in phases
and for an extension of time under specified conditions may be made upon prior
agreement by, or application to, the Commission or Board.
Section 2.9260. Performance Bond (Ord. 21-05, Ord. 25-02)
1) The subdivider shall file with the agreement to assure full and faithful
performance thereof, one of the following:
(A) A surety bond executed by a surety company authorized to conduct
business in the State of Oregon on a form approved by the County
Counsel.
(B) In lieu of a surety bond, the subdivider may deposit with the County
Treasurer cash money in an amount determined by the County Engineer,
or file certification by a bank or other reputable lending institution that
money is being held to cover the costs of the improvements and incidental
expenses. Said money will only be released upon authorization of the
County Engineer.
(C) Such assurance of full and faithful performance shall be for a sum
determined by the County Engineer as sufficient to cover the cost of the
improvements and repairs that may be required prior to acceptance
including related engineering, and shall include an additional 10 percent to
cover any inflationary costs which may be incurred during the construction
period to the full and final completion of the project.
(D) If the subdivider fails to carry out provisions of the agreement and the
County has unreimbursed costs and expenses resulting from failure, the
County shall call on the bond or cash deposit for reimbursement. If the
amount of the bond or cash deposit exceeds the cost and expense
incurred, the remainder shall be released. If the amount of the bond or
cash deposit is less than the cost and expense incurred, the subdivider
shall be liable to the County for the difference.
(E) If subdivision extensions are granted, the bond shall be revised.
Section 2.9270. Final Plat Approval (Ord. 21-05, Ord. 25-02)
Upon receipt of the final plat, the Community Development Director shall review the final

Clatsop County Land and Water II-61 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
plat and supporting documents to determine that the plat conforms with the approved
preliminary plat and all other applicable provisions of the law and this Ordinance.

If the County Surveyor, Sanitarian, Engineer and the Community Development Director
or the Commission determine that the final plat conforms fully with the approved
preliminary plat and all applicable regulations and standards for final platting, the
Community Development Director shall advise the Chairperson of the Commission. The
Chairperson of the Commission may then have the plat signed in order of signatures
listed below in this Ordinance, without further action by the Commission. If the final plat
is not in such conformance, it shall be submitted to the Commission. When submitted to
the Commission for review, approval of the final plat shall be by a majority of those
present. If the plat is signed without further review by the Commission, the action shall
be reported to the Commission at the next regular meeting. In the absence of the
Chairperson, the duties and powers with respect to action of final plat shall revert to the
Vice- Chairperson of the Commission.

Approval of a final plat by the Board of Commissioners shall constitute an acceptance
by the public of the dedication of any street or way shown on the plat. Acceptance of a
street or way by approval of the final plat shall not constitute an acceptance to maintain
the street or way. Acceptance of the maintenance of any street or way accepted by
approval of the final plat, shall be by a separate process of petitioning the Board for
acceptance of road maintenance. Approval of the final plat shall not act as an
acceptance by the public of any other land for public purposes.
Section 2.9280. Filing of Final Plat (Ord. 21-05, Ord. 25-02)
The subdivider shall obtain signatures from the following County officials on the final
plat. Signatures shall be obtained in the order listed:
1) Community Development Director;
2) County Surveyor, in accordance with the provisions of ORS 92.100;
3) County Assessor;
4) Board of Commissioners or its designee (upon consent of the Board);
5) County Clerk.
Section 2.9290. Time Limit for Recording of a Plat (Ord. 25-02)
The final plat shall be recorded within 30 days of the date that the signatures and
approvals as required in Section 2.9280 of this Ordinance have been obtained. If the
final plat is not recorded within 30 days, it must be resubmitted to the Commission. The
Commission may require revisions to the plat due to changed conditions within the
general area of the subdivision.
Section 2.9300. Partial Platting (Ord. 25-02)
Individual phases of an approved preliminary plat may be recorded with the approval of
the Commission and in the same manner as a final plat.

Clatsop County Land and Water II-62 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
SECTION 2.9400. SITE PLAN REVIEW (ORD. 25-02)
Section 2.9410. Site Plan Requirements
Before a permit can be issued for development, a site plan must be approved by the
Community Development Director or designee. A site plan, drawn to scale, shall include
the following Information:
1) Residential Development:
 (A) All property lines
(B) All existing and proposed structures
(C) distance of all existing and proposed structures from:
 i. all property lines
 ii. lakes, streams, rivers and/or wetlands
(D) All waste water systems, including septic tanks, drain fields and holding
tanks
(E) Access roads, driveways, parking areas and easements
(F) Erosion control plan and storm water drainage plan
(G) Locations and types of outdoor lighting
2) Non-Residential Development:
(A) All property lines
(B) All existing and proposed structures
(C) Building dimensions and height
(D) Driveways and road access points and dimensions
(E) Parking calculation detailing the number of required parking spaces
(F) Off-street parking spaces and dimensions of parking spaces
(G) Loading areas and dimensions
(H) Bicycle parking spaces
(I) Pedestrian accessways and dimensions
(J) Stormwater drainage plan
(K) Landscaping
(L) Existing trees greater than 6” in diameter measured 4.5’ above the ground
(M) Fences
(N) Existing and proposed signs and dimensions
(O) Locations and types of outdoor lighting

Clatsop County Land and Water II-63 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
SECTION 2.9500. TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM IMPACT REVIEW (ORD. 25-02)
Purpose. The following section includes requirements for developments that have the potential
to impact the county’s transportation system.
Section 2.9510. Traffic Impact Analysis
1) Purpose.
The purpose of this section is to implement OAR Section 660-012-0060
(Transportation Planning) that requires the County to adopt a process to apply
conditions to development proposals in order to minimize adverse impacts to and
protect transportation facilities. This section establishes:
(A) the threshold for when a traffic impact analysis must be submitted for
review;
(B) the information that must be in a traffic impact analysis; and
(C) who is qualified to prepare the analysis.
2) Exemptions: No report is required is there are fewer than 200 trips per day
generated during a weekday.
3) When Required. A traffic impact analysis shall be required when the following
conditions apply:
(A) The road authority indicates in writing that the proposal may have
operational or safety concerns along its facilities; or,
(B) A traffic impact analysis is required by the Oregon Department of
Transportation (ODOT) pursuant to OAR 734-051; or,
(C) The development application involves one or more of the following
actions:
i. A change in zoning or a plan amendment designation; or
ii. Change in use to a higher intensity of use; or
iii. Safety impacts to or traffic volume increase in a residential or
mixed-use area; or
iv. Safety impacts to or traffic volume increase adjacent to key walking
and biking routes, including but not limited to school routes and
multimodal street improvements identified in the Transportation
System Plan
(D) The development will cause one or more of the following:
i. An increase in site traffic volume generation by 200 Average Daily
Trips (ADT) or more; or
ii. An increase in peak hour volume of 20 trips or more; or
iii. An increase in use of adjacent streets by vehicles exceeding the
20,000 pound gross vehicle weights by 10 vehicles or more per
day; or
iv. Degradation of road or intersection level of service (LOS) below the
minimum-required LOS
4) Traffic Impact Analysis Requirements:
(A) A traffic impact analysis shall be prepared by a professional engineer as
defined in OAR 734-051-1070.

Clatsop County Land and Water II-64 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
(B) The minimum requirements for a traffic impact analysis are:
i. Vicinity map showing the location of the project in relation to the
transportation system of the area;
ii. Trip generation forecast using data from the most recent edition of
the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip Generation
Manual unless more appropriate data is available and approved by
the County Engineer;
iii. Trip distribution and assignment. Trip distribution assumptions are
based on historical data, existing and future travel characteristics,
and capacity constraints;
iv. Safety analysis of the site accesses, including sight distance and
operation characteristics;
v. A complete description and plan of the proposed development and
surrounding land uses;
vi. Traffic signal progression analysis and interconnection if a new
signal is proposed;
vii. A response in the final report to any supplemental study issues
identified by other affected jurisdictions;
viii. Appropriate traffic calming techniques if the project distributes trips
to a residential local road and is projected to increase the volumes
on that road to a volume greater than 1,000 ADT;
ix. Existing traffic volumes;
x. Existing and future levels of service, average vehicle delay and
volume/capacity rations (V/C) for all intersections within the study
area for conditions with and without the proposed project;
xi. Forecast traffic volumes with and without the development;
xii. Analysis of right and left turn lane warrants (ODOT standards);
xiii. Analysis of parking needs of the proposed development;
xiv. If needed, warrant analysis for traffic control devices;
xv. Findings and conclusions including a recommendation of
suggested potential mitigation for off-site impacts and an evaluation
of the effectiveness of those solutions.
5) Mitigation:
(A) The applicant shall be responsible for mitigating any safety or capacity
problems that are caused by their proposed development.
(B) If the County Engineer determines there are pre-existing safety
deficiencies and/or capacity failures at relevant intersections or road
frontages within the impact analysis area, then no additional development
shall be allowed until a solution that accounts for the proposed project’s
additional impacts is funded or built.

Section 2.9520. Amendments Affecting the Transportation System (Ord. 25-02)
1) Per OAR 660-012-0060, an application to change a comprehensive plan or
zoning designation or to change a local land use regulation, shall be reviewed to

Clatsop County Land and Water II-65 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                                                                   Codified to Ordinance 25-16 and Ordinance 26-05
ARTICLE 2. PROCEDURES FOR LAND USE
APPLICATIONS
determine whether it would significantly affect a transportation facility. An
amendment would significantly affect a transportation facility if it:
(A) Changes the functional classification of an existing or planned
transportation facility;
(B) Changes standards implementing a functional classification system; or
(C) Results in any of the following:
i. Types or levels of travel or access that are inconsistent with the
functional classification of an existing or planned transportation
facility; or
ii. Degradation of the performance of an existing or planned
transportation facility such that it would not meet the performance
standards in the TSP or comprehensive plan; or
iii. Degradation of the performance of an existing or planned
transportation facility that is otherwise projected not to meet the
performance standards identified in the TSP or comprehensive
plan.
(D) Allows types or intensities of development that would result in levels of
travel or access that are inconsistent with the functional classification of a
transportation facility; or
(E) Reduces the performance standards of the facility below the minimum
acceptable level identified in the Transportation System Plan.
2) Amendment applications that will significantly affect the transportation system
shall be reviewed according to the standards in OAR 660-012-0060. Conditions
of approval, as required by OAR 660-012-0060, shall be applied.
3) Exemptions:
An amendment may be approved, even if it would affect an existing
transportation facility, if the amendment is exempted by OAR 660-012-0060(3),
(9) or (10).