March 2021 CLATSOP COUNTY Policy A-28  Page 1
ADMINISTRATIVE POLICY & PROCEDURE

SUBJECT: COMMITTEE MEMBER APPOINTMENTS

DATE:  November 6, 2008    Revised:  June 2018
              March 2021

I. POLICY

Except as otherwise provided by law, all members of county committees shall be
appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the Board. (Clatsop County Code of
Regulations Section 1.04.030 D.)

II. PROCEDURES

A. Recruitment

When a vacancy occurs on a committee, the staff liaison to the committee
notifies the County Manager’s Office of the vacancy. The County Manager’s
office will prepare a media release inviting citizens to serve on the committee.
The notice of recruitment is posted on the County website, social media accounts
and advertised by other means including networking with local organizations. The
Board of Commissioners will be notified as vacancies arise to assist in the
recruitment process. Applications are maintained in the County Records
Application by the County Manager’s Office.

Members currently serving on a board/commission and wishing to be
reappointed, must reapply. If their application is current, they may send an email
to the County Manager’s Office stating their desire to be considered for re-
appointment and noting no changes to their application on file.

Applications will be maintained for the duration of an appointment (term) or up to
two years for applicants not appointed; but eligible for future appointments.

Departments and/or the advisory board/committee may choose to interview
applicants in order to better address any questions or concerns that may arise
with the Board of Commissioners.

B. Work Session Consultation

At the end of the recruitment period, the County Manager’s Office sends all
eligible applications to the department and schedules a work session to consult
with the Board regarding the applications. The work session agenda item will
include a matrix of all current and prospective members, as well as the

CLATSOP COUNTY ADMINISTRATIVE POLICY AND PROCEDURE NO. A-28

March 2021 CLATSOP COUNTY Policy A-28  Page 2
ADMINISTRATIVE POLICY & PROCEDURE

applications. After discussion, the Board may direct staff to continue recruitment
efforts or to submit names for appointment at the next available Board meeting.

C. Appointments

The department prepares an agenda item requesting Board appointment(s). The
agenda item will include:
• Summary of vacancies
• Dates of recruitment
• Date of work session consultation
• Membership and applicant matrix
• Under requested action:
o Named of appointed applicants and positions (if known)
o Assigned term expiration dates

D. Follow-up

The County Manager’s Office will communicate to all applicants informing them
of the status of their applications. If appointed, the designated department will
welcome the new member, provide an orientation and information regarding
upcoming meetings.

The County Manager’s Office will be responsible for members who complete a
term (whether reappointment of not) to receive a certificate of appreciation,
signed by the Board Chair, recognizing their service and contribution to the
County.

E. Ongoing Recruitments

Recruitment will remain open, until vacant positions are filled. An initial
application review date may be established.

F. Unexpected Vacancies

Unexpected vacancies may be filled at the discretion of the Board from the pool
of recent applicants, or by initiating a new recruitment.

An appointment to complete the term of a retiring member will generally carry the
same expiration date as the original appointment.

G. Bylaws

Bylaws for each advisory board/committee will be maintained by the designated
department and County Manager’s office.