Clatsop County Land and Water V-1  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE 5.
SPECIAL PURPOSE DISTRICTS

SECTION 5.0000. SPECIAL PURPOSE DISTRICTS
A special purpose district is an overlay district which may be combined with any portion
of any zone as appropriate to the purpose of the district. The regulations of a special
purpose district may add to or modify the requirements of the underlying zone and the
regulations of the special purpose district and the zone shall all apply. Where the
requirements of a special purpose overlay district and the underlying base zone conflict,
the regulations that are more restrictive shall control.  The boundaries of special
purpose districts are shown on the Clatsop County Land and Water Development Map
and Columbia River Estuary Resource Base Maps. These maps are hereby adopted by
this reference as a part of this Ordinance.
Each special purpose district and the abbreviated designation suffix are listed in Table
5.1.
Table 5.1 Special Purpose Overlays, Abbreviations, and Boundaries
SPECIAL PURPOSE OVERLAY
(ABBREVIATION)
BOUNDARY
Airport (AO)
Aquifer Reserve (ARO)
Beaches and Dunes (BDO) All beach and dune landforms to the eastern limit of
Highway 101 as identified on the Beach and Dune
Overlay Map dated August 29, 2025.
Active Dune Overlay Map dated August 29, 2025
Construction Setback Line Map dated August 29, 2025
Dune Morphology Map dated August 29, 2025
Shoreline Access Inventory Map created May 1, 2023
and printed August 25, 2025. [ORD. 25-09]
Destination Resort (DRO)
Dredged Material Disposal (DMD) The area of Dredged Material Disposal identified on the
Columbia River Estuary Resource Base Maps dated
September 30, 1983.

Clatsop County Land and Water V-2  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
SPECIAL PURPOSE OVERLAY
(ABBREVIATION)
BOUNDARY
Flood Hazard (FHO) The areas of flood hazards identified by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in reports
entitled:
• The Flood Insurance Study (FIS), #41007CV001B
and #41007CV002B, dated June 20, 2018, Version
Number 2.3.2.0, for unincorporated areas of
Clatsop County and accompanying Digital Flood
Insurance Rate Maps (DFIRM) and Flood Boundary
and Floodway maps dated effective June 20, 2018;
and
• The Flood Insurance Study (FIS) #41007CV001A
and #41007CV002A, dated September 17, 2010,
for unincorporated areas of Clatsop County and
Flood Boundary and Floodway maps dated
effective September 17, 2010.
Geologic Hazard (GHO) Areas identified by the Oregon Department of Geology
and Mineral Industries (DOGAMI) as having a
moderate, high or very high likelihood of landslide
activity.
Mitigation Site Reserve (MIT) The area of Mitigation identified on the Columbia River
Estuary Resource Base Maps dated September 30,
1983.
Planned Development (PDO)
Quarry and Mining (QMO)
Restoration Inventory Sites (RIS) The area of Restoration identified on the Columbia
River Estuary Resource Base Maps dated September
30, 1983.
Rural Community (RCO)
Sensitive Bird Habitat (SBHO)

Clatsop County Land and Water V-3  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
SPECIAL PURPOSE OVERLAY
(ABBREVIATION)
BOUNDARY
Shoreland (SO) • Elk Creek Estuary Coastal Shorelands boundary as
identified on the Elk Creek Estuary Map of the Elk
Creek Estuary section of the Estuarine Resources
and Coastal Shorelands Element of the Clatsop
County Comprehensive Plan dated September 30,
1983; and
• Necanicum River Estuary Coastal Shorelands
boundary as identified on the Elk Creek Estuary Map
of the Elk Creek Estuary section of the Estuarine
Resources and Coastal Shorelands Element of the
Clatsop County Comprehensive Plan dated
September 30, 1983; and
• Columbia River Estuary Coastal Shorelands
boundary as identified on the Columbia River Estuary
Resource Maps dated July 2002; and
• Coastal Shorelands boundary as identified on the
Ocean and Coastal Lake Shorelands Maps of the
Ocean and Coastal Lake Shorelands of the Estuarine
Resources and Coastal Shorelands Element of the
Clatsop County Comprehensive Plan dated
September 30, 1983.

Clatsop County Land and Water V-4  July 22, 2025
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-02
ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION 5.1000. FLOOD HAZARD OVERLAY (FHO)
Section 5.1010. Purpose
The purpose of the flood hazard overlay district is to identify those areas of the County
subject to the hazards of periodic flooding and establish standards and regulations to
reduce flood damage or loss of life in those areas. This district shall apply to all areas of
special flood hazards within the unincorporated areas of Clatsop County as identified on
Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) and Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps. In
advancing these principles and the general purposes of the Clatsop County
Comprehensive Plan, the specific objectives are:
1) To promote the general health, welfare and safety of the County;
2) To prevent the establishment of certain structures and land uses unsuitable for
human habitation because of the danger of flooding, unsanitary conditions or
other hazards;
3) To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with flooding;
4) To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for sound use and development
in flood- prone areas and to minimize prolonged business interruptions;
5) To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities located in flood hazard areas;
6) To insure that potential home and business buyers are notified that property is in
a flood area.

The areas of special flood hazard are identified in “The Flood Insurance Study (FIS)
#41007CV001B and #41007CV002B, dated June 20, 2018, Version Number 2.3.2.0, for
unincorporated areas of Clatsop County” and in “The Flood Insurance Study (FIS)
#41007CV001A and #41007CV002A, dated September 17, 2010, for unincorporated
areas of Clatsop County”.
Section 5.1020. Definitions
The following words and phrases shall be interpreted so as to give them the meanings
they have in common usage and to give this chapter its most reasonable application:

“ACCESSORY STRUCTURE” means a structure on the same or adjacent parcel as a
principal structure, the use of which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
structure. A separate insurable building should not be classified as an accessory or
appurtenant structure

“ALTERATION OF A WATERCOURSE” includes, but is not limited to, any dam,
culvert, impoundment, channel relocation, change in channel alignment, channelization,
or change in cross-sectional area or capacity, which may alter, impede, retard or change
the direction and/or velocity of the riverine flow of water during conditions of the base
flood.

Clatsop County Land and Water V-5  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
“AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING” means a designated AO or AH zone on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a one percent or greater chance of flooding to an
average depth of one to three feet; a clearly defined channel does not exist; the path of
flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident. AO is
characterized as sheet flow and AH indicates ponding.

“AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD” is the land in the floodplain within a
community subject to a one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
Zone designations on FIRMs include the letters A or V. Also known as the Special Flood
Hazard Area (SFHA)

“BASE FLOOD” means the flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. Also referred to as the “100-year flood”. Designation on
maps always includes the letters A or V.

“BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE)” means the water surface elevation during the base
flood in relation to a specified datum. The Base Flood Elevation (BFE) is depicted on
the FIRM to the nearest foot and in the FIS to the nearest 0.1-foot.

“BASEMENT” means any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.

“BELOW-GRADE CRAWLSPACE” means an enclosed area below the base flood
elevation in which the interior grade is not more than two feet below the lowest adjacent
exterior grade and the height, measured from the interior grade of the crawlspace to the
top of the crawlspace foundation, does not exceed 4 feet at any point.

“BREAKAWAY WALL” means a wall that is not a part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under specific
lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion of the building or
supporting foundation system.

“BUILDING” means a building or structure subject to building codes.

“BUILDING CODES” means the combined specialty codes adopted under ORS
446.062, 446.185, 447.020 (2), 455.020 (2), 455.496, 455.610, 455.680, 460.085,
460.360, 479.730 (1) or 480.545, but does not include regulations adopted by the State
Fire Marshal pursuant to ORS chapter 476 or ORS 479.015 to 479.200 and 479.210 to
479.220.

“COASTAL HIGH-HAZARD AREA” means an area of special flood hazard extending
from offshore to the inland limit of a primary frontal dune along an open coast and any

Clatsop County Land and Water V-6  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
other area subject to high velocity wave action from storms or seismic sources. The
area is designated in the FIRM as Zone V1-V30, VE or V.

“CRITICAL FACILITIES” means those structures or facilities which produce, use, or
store highly volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic, and/or water-reactive materials;
hospitals, nursing homes, and housing likely to contain occupants who may not be
sufficiently mobile to avoid death or injury during a flood; police stations, fire stations,
vehicle and equipment storage facilities, and emergency operations centers that are
needed for flood response activities before, during, and after a flood; and public and
private facilities that are vital to maintaining or restoring normal services to flooded
areas before, during and after a flood.

“DATUM” is a base measurement point (or set of points) from which all elevations are
determined. Historically, that common set of points has been the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum of 1929 (NAVD29). The vertical datum currently adopted by the federal
government as a basis for measuring heights is the North American Vertical Datum of
1988 (NAVD88).

“DEVELOPMENT” means any manmade change to improved or unimproved real
property, including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of equipment or
materials located within the area of special flood hazard.
“DIGITAL FIRM (DFIRM),” means Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map. It depicts flood
risk and zones and flood risk information The DFIRM presents the flood risk information
in a format suitable for electronic mapping applications.

“ENCROACHMENT” means the advancement or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, permanent structures or other development into a floodway which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.

“ELEVATED BUILDING” means a non-basement building which has its lowest elevated
floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, post, piers, pilings, or
columns.

“EXISTING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE” means a structure for which the “start of
construction” commenced before July 3, 1978.

“EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION” means one in which
the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are
to be affixed is completed before the effective date of Clatsop County’s floodplain
management regulations July 3, 1978. The “construction of facilities includes, at a

Clatsop County Land and Water V-7  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads.

“FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA)” means the agency with
the overall responsibility for administering the National Flood Insurance Program.

“FLOOD” or “FLOODING” means a general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:
(1) The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
(2) The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any source.

“FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP” means the official map used by the Federal
Insurance Administrator where the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard have
been designated.

“FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM)” means an official map of a community, on
which the Federal Insurance administrator has delineated both the special hazard areas
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.

“FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS)” means the official report provided by the Federal
Insurance Administrator that includes flood profiles, the flood boundary-floodway map
and the water surface elevation of the base flood.

“FLOOD PROOFING” means any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real
estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their
contents.

“FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR” means the Community Development Director, or an
individual or committee that is designated by the Director, to implement and administer
the provisions of this ordinance.

“FLOODWAY” means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively
increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.

“HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE” means the highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.

“HISTORIC STRUCTURE” means a structure that is:
1) Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing maintained
by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the Secretary

Clatsop County Land and Water V-8  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on the National
Register;
2) Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as
contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district or to a
district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic
district;
3) Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states with historic
preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary of the
Interior; or
4) Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in communities with
historic preservation programs that have been certified either:
(A) By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior, or
(B) Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved
programs.

“LATERAL ADDITION” means an addition that requires a foundation to be built outside
of the foundation footprint of the existing building.

“LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC)” means an official FEMA determination, by letter,
to amend or revise effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps and Flood Insurance Studies.
LOMCs are issued in the following categories:
Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA)
A revision based on technical data showing that a property was incorrectly
included in a designated special flood hazard area. A LOMA amends the current
effective Flood Insurance Rate Map and establishes that a specific property is
not located in a special flood hazard area.

Letter of Map Revision (LOMR)
A revision based on technical data showing that, usually due to manmade
changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood elevations, floodplain and
floodway delineations, and planimetric features. One common type of LOMR, a
LOMR-F, is a determination that a structure of parcel has been elevated by fill
above the base flood elevation and is excluded from the special flood hazard
area.

Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill – (LOMR-F)
A modification of the Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA) shown on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), based on the placement of fill outside the existing
regulatory floodway.

Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR)

Clatsop County Land and Water V-9  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
A formal review and comment by FEMA as to whether a proposed project
complies with the minimum National Flood Insurance Program floodplain
management criteria. A CLOMR does NOT amend or revise effective Flood
Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps, or Flood Insurance
Studies.

“LOWEST FLOOR” means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a basement area, is not
considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such enclosure is not built so as to
render the structure in violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of
this chapter.

“MANUFACTURED DWELLING” (aka manufactured housing) means a structure,
transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and is
designed for use with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the
required utilities. The term “manufactured dwelling” does not include a recreational
vehicle.

“MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION” means a parcel (or contiguous
parcels) of land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.

“MEAN SEA LEVEL (MSL)” means the North American Vertical Datum (NGVD) of
1988 or other datum, to which base flood elevations shown on the flood insurance rate
map are referenced.

“NATURAL ELEVATION” means the elevation of natural grade, or the grade in
existence before July 3, 1978.

“NEW CONSTRUCTION” means a structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced after July 3, 1978 and includes subsequent substantial improvements to
the structure.

“NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION” means a manufactured
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for serving the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective date of floodplain
management regulations adopted by Clatsop County.

“RECREATION VEHICLE” means a vehicle which is (1) built on a single chassis, (2)
four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal

Clatsop County Land and Water V-10  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
projection, (3) designed to be self-propelled or permanently towed by a light-duty truck,
and (4) designed primarily not for use as temporary living quarters for recreational,
camping, travel or seasonal use.

“SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA)” means areas subject to inundation from
the waters of a one-hundred-year flood.

“START OF CONSTRUCTION” includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or other improvement was within one
hundred eighty days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a
slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond
the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading
and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and walkways; nor does it
include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundation or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory
buildings, such
as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For
a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the building.

“STRUCTURE” means a walled and roofed building, a manufactured dwelling, a
modular or temporary building, or a gas or liquid storage tank that is principally above
ground.

“SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE” means the damage of any origin sustained by a structure
whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage condition would equal
or exceed 50-percent of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.

“SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT” means any repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition, or other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50
percent of the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred “repetitive loss” or
“substantial damage,” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The market value
of the structure should be:

(1)  the appraised value of the structure prior to the start of the initial repair or
improvement, or

Clatsop County Land and Water V-11  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
(2)  in the case of damage, the value of the structure prior to the damage
occurring. This term includes structures which have incurred “substantial
damage”, regardless of the actual amount of repair work performed. The term
does not include either:
(a)  A project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications, which have
been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are the
minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
(b)  Alteration of an Historic Structure, provided that the alteration will not
preclude the structure's continued designation as an Historic Structure.

“VERTICAL ADDITION” means the addition of a room or rooms on top of an existing
building.

“WATERCOURSE” means a lake, river, creek, stream, wash, arroyo, channel or other
topographic feature in, on, through, or over which water flows at least periodically.

“WATER-DEPENDENT” means a use or use and activity which can only be carried out
on, in or adjacent to water areas because the use requires access to the waterbody for
water-borne transportation, recreation, energy production, or source of water.

“WATER SURFACE ELEVATION” means the height, in relation to mean sea level, of
floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the flood plains of coastal or riverine
areas.
Section 5.1030. Interpretation
In the interpretation and application of this ordinance all provisions shall be:
1) Considered as minimum requirements;
2) Liberally construed in favor of the governing body, and;
3) Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes, including state building codes.
Section 5.1040. Floodplain Administrator Duties and Responsibilities
1) Permit Review
The Floodplain Administrator duties shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
(A) Review all development permit applications to determine whether
proposed new development will be located in Areas of Special Flood
Hazard and to determine that all new development complies with the
requirements of this ordinance;

Clatsop County Land and Water V-12  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
(B) Review applications for modifications of any existing development in
Areas of Special Flood Hazard for compliance with the requirements of
this ordinance;
(C) Review proposed development to assure that necessary permits have
been received from those Federal, State or local governmental agencies
from which prior approval is required. Copies of such permits shall be
provided and maintained on file.
(D) Review all development permit applications for property in a Special Flood
Hazard Area to determine if the proposed development is located in the
floodplain or floodway, and if located in a floodway, ensure that the
encroachment standards of Section 5.1140 are met.
(E) Issue floodplain development permits when the provisions of this
ordinance have been met, or disapprove the same in the event of
noncompliance;
(F) Coordinate with the Building Official to assure that applications for
buildings permits comply with the requirements of this ordinance.
2) Use of Base Flood Data
(A) Interpret flood hazard area boundaries, provide available flood hazard
information, and provide base flood elevations, where they exist;
(B) When Base Flood Elevation data or floodway data are not available, then
the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize
any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state
or other source in order to administer the provisions of this ordinance.
(C) When Base Flood Elevations or other current engineering data are not
available, the Floodplain Administrator shall take into account the flood
hazards, to the extent they are known, to determine whether a proposed
building site will be reasonably safe from flooding.
3) Interpretation of FIRM Boundaries
(A) Make interpretations, as needed, of the exact location of boundaries of the
Areas of Special Flood Hazard, including regulatory floodways (for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped
boundary and actual field conditions). Any person contesting the location
of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the
interpretation as provided in Section 5.1090.
4) Obtain and Maintain Information
(A) Obtain, verify and record the actual elevation in relation to the vertical
datum used on the effective FIRM, or highest adjacent grade where no
BFE is available, of the lowest floor level, including basements and below-
grade crawlspaces, of all new construction or substantially improved
buildings and structures.
(B) Obtain, verify and record the actual elevation, in relation to the vertical
datum used on the effective FIRM, or highest adjacent grade where no

Clatsop County Land and Water V-13  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
BFE is available, to which any new or substantially improved buildings or
structures have been flood-proofed. When flood-proofing is utilized for a
structure, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain certification of design
criteria from a registered professional engineer or architect;
(C) Ensure that all records pertaining to the provisions of this ordinance are
permanently maintained in the office of Community Development and shall
be open for public inspection.
(D) Make inspections in Areas of Special Flood Hazard to determine whether
development has been undertaken without issuance of a floodplain
development permit, ensure that development is undertaken in
accordance with this ordinance, and verify that existing buildings and
structures maintain compliance with this ordinance;
(E) Coordinate with the Building Official to inspect areas where buildings and
structures in flood hazard areas have been damaged, regardless of the
cause of damage, and notify owners that permits may be required prior to
repair, rehabilitation, demolition, relocation, or reconstruction of the
building or structure;
(F) Make Substantial Damage or Substantial Damage determinations based
on criteria set forth in Section 5.1110 of this ordinance.
Section 5.1050. Alteration of Water Courses
1) The bankfull flood carrying capacity of the altered or relocated portion of the
water course shall not be diminished. Prior to issuance of a floodplain
development permit, the applicant must submit a description of the extent to
which any water course will be altered or relocated as a result of the proposed
development and submit certification by a registered professional engineer that
the bankfull flood carrying capacity of the water course will not be diminished.

Clatsop County Land and Water V-14  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
2) The applicant shall notify adjacent communities, the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers, Oregon Department of State Lands, and Oregon Department of Land
Conservation and Development prior to any alteration or relocation of a water
source. Evidence of notification must be submitted to the floodplain administrator
and to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
3) The applicant shall be responsible for providing the necessary maintenance for
the altered or relocated portion of the watercourse so that the flood carrying
capacity will not be diminished.
4) The applicant shall meet the requirements to submit technical data in Section
5.1200 when the alteration of a watercourse, including the placement of culverts,
results in the relocation or elimination of the special flood hazard area.
Section 5.1060. Non-Conversion of Enclosed areas below the Lowest Floor
To ensure that the areas below the BFE continue to be used solely for parking vehicles,
limited storage, or access to the building and not be finished for use as human
habitation without first becoming fully compliant with the floodplain management
ordinance in effect at the time of conversion, the Floodplain Administrator shall:
1) Determine which applicants for new construction and/or substantial
improvements have fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are 5 feet or
higher;
2) Enter into a “NON-CONVERSION AGREEMENT FOR CONSTRUCTION
WITHIN FLOOD HAZARD AREAS” or equivalent with Clatsop County. The
agreement shall be recorded with the Clatsop County Clerk as a deed restriction.
The non-conversion agreement shall be in a form acceptable to the Floodplain
Administrator and County Counsel; and
3) Have the authority to inspect any area of a structure below the base flood
elevation to ensure compliance upon prior notice of at least 72 hours.
Section 5.1070. Floodplain Inspection and Enforcement
1) The Administrator or designee shall make periodic inspections of floodplain areas
to establish that development activities within the floodplain are being performed
in compliance with an approved floodplain development permit. The
Administrator or designee shall prepare a field report listing non-complying
conditions to be delivered to the Code Compliance Officer within 5 business
days.
2) Upon receipt of the report the Code Compliance Officer shall take action in
accordance with Clatsop County Code of Regulations to effect the abatement of
such violation.

Clatsop County Land and Water V-15  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
3) If the violation is not resolved through code enforcement the Floodplain
Administrator shall request to the Administrator of Federal Insurance
Administration a declaration for denial of insurance, stating that the property is in
violation of a cited statute or local law, regulation or ordinance, pursuant to
section 1316 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 as amended.
Section 5.1080.  Warning and Disclaimer of Liability
The degree of flood protection required by this Ordinance is considered reasonable for
regulatory purposes and is based on engineering and scientific considerations. Larger
floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may be increased by man-
made or natural causes.

This Ordinance does not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or
uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This
ordinance shall not create a liability on the part of Clatsop County or by an officer, or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this Ordinance or
any administrative decision lawfully made there under.
Section 5.1090. Appeals
An appeal of a Floodplain Administrator decision pursuant to this chapter may be
appealed in accordance with Section 2.2190. Appeals of a decision by the Hearings
Officer pursuant to this chapter may be appealed in accordance with Clatsop County
Code of Regulations.
Section 5.1100. Permit Procedures
A Floodplain Development Permit shall be obtained before construction or development
begins within any area of special flood hazard. Application for a Floodplain
Development Permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished
by the Administrator or the Administrator’s designee prior to starting development
activities. Specifically, the following information is required:
1) Application Stage:
(A) Plans in duplicate drawn to scale with elevations of the project area and
the nature, location, dimensions of existing and proposed structures,
earthen fill placement, storage of materials or equipment and drainage
facilities.
(B) Delineation of flood hazard areas, floodway boundaries including base
flood elevations, or flood depth in AO zones, where available;
(C) For all proposed structures, elevation in relation to the highest adjacent
grade and the base flood elevation, or flood depth in AO zones, of the:
1. lowest enclosed area, including crawlspace or basement floor;
2. bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member in coastal high
hazard areas (V Zones);

Clatsop County Land and Water V-16  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
3. top of the proposed garage slab, if any, and;
4. next highest floor
(D) Locations and sizes of all flood openings;
(E) Elevation to which any non-residential structure will be flood-proofed;
(F) Certification from a registered professional engineer or architect that any
proposed non-residential flood-proofed structure will meet the flood-
proofing criteria of the NFIP and building codes;
(G) Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered or
relocated as a result of a proposed development;
2) Construction Stage:
(A) For all new construction and substantial improvements, the permit holder
shall provide to the Floodplain Administrator an as-built certification of the
floor elevation or flood-proofing level immediately after the lowest floor or
flood-proofing is placed and prior to further vertical construction .
(B) Any deficiencies identified by the Floodplain Administrator shall be
corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to work proceeding.
Failure to submit certification or failure to make the corrections shall be
cause for the Floodplain Administrator to issue a stop-work order for the
project.
3) Certificate of Occupancy
(A) In addition to the requirements of the building codes pertaining to
certificate of occupancy, prior to the final inspection the owner or
authorized agent shall submit the following documentation that has been
prepared and sealed by a registered surveyor or engineer;
1. For elevated buildings and structures in non-coastal Areas of
Special Flood Hazard (A zones), the elevation of the lowest floor,
including basement or where no base flood elevation is available
the height above highest adjacent grade of the lowest floor;
2. For buildings and structures in coastal Areas of Special Flood
Hazard (V zones), the elevation of the bottom of the lowest
horizontal structural member supporting the lowest floor.
(B) Failure to submit certification or failure to correct violations shall be cause
for the Building Official to withhold a certificate of occupancy or delay a
final building inspection until such deficiencies are corrected.
4) Expiration of Floodplain Development Permit
(A) Floodplain development permit shall expire 180 days after issuance
unless the permitted activity has been substantially begun and thereafter
is pursued to completion.
(B) Commencement of work includes start of construction, when the permitted
work requires a building permit.

Clatsop County Land and Water V-17  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
Section 5.1110. Substantial Damage and Substantial Improvement Determination
For applications for permits to improve buildings and structures, including additions,
repairs, renovations, and alterations, the Floodplain Administrator, shall:
1) Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain a professional
appraisal of the market value, of the building or structure before the proposed
work is performed; when repair of damage is proposed, the market value of the
building or structure shall be the market value before the damage occurred;
2) Compare the cost of improvement, the cost to repair the damaged building to its
pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of improvements and repairs, if
applicable, to the market value of the building or structure;
(A) Except as indicated in subsections (D) and (E) below, all costs to repair
substantial damage, including emergency repairs, must be included;
(B) The costs associated with the correction of pre-existing violations of state
or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications that were identified
by the building official, the director of environmental health, or any other
local code enforcement official prior to the improvement or repair and that
are the minimum necessary to ensure safe living conditions shall not be
included;
(C) Except as indicated in subsections (d) and (e) below, the costs of
complying with any county, state, or federal regulation other than those
described in subsection (b) must be included;
(D) Costs associated with the following items are not included:
1. The preparation and approval of all required plans, calculations,
certifications, and specifications;
2. The performance of surveys or other geotechnical or engineering
studies and resulting reports;
3. Permit and review fees;
4. The construction, demolition, repair, or modification of outdoor
improvements, including landscaping, fences, swimming pools,
detached garages and sheds, etc.;
(E) Proposed alterations of a designated historic building or structure is not to
be considered substantial improvement unless the alteration causes a loss
of said designation.
3) The Floodplain Administrator shall make the final determination of whether the
proposed improvement and/or repair constitutes a substantial improvement or
substantial damage;
4) The Floodplain Administrator shall notify the applicant of the results of the
determination by letter,
5) Applicant has the right to appeal the determination pursuant to Section 5.1090.
Section 5.1120. Variances
A request for a variance from a standard contained in this chapter shall be reviewed in

Clatsop County Land and Water V-18  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
accordance with the procedures of Section 2.8000-2.8030. The burden to show that the
variance is warranted and meets the criteria is on the applicant.

When considering a variance application, the deciding body shall consider all technical
evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified in other sections of this ordinance,
and:

1) The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury of others;
2) The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
3) The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood damage and
the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
4) The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to the
community;
5) The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where applicable;
6) The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which are not subject
to flooding or erosion damage;
7) The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated development;
8) The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and floodplain
management program for that area;
9) The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and emergency
vehicles;
10) The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment transport of
the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable, expected at the site;
and,
11) The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood conditions,
including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities such as sewer,
gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and bridges.

Upon consideration of the factors identified above and the purposes of this ordinance,
the deciding body may attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems
necessary to further the purposes of this ordinance.

The floodplain administrator shall maintain a permanent record of all variances and
report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency upon request.

The following standards are applicable to a variance request, not those of Section
2.8010:
1) Generally, the only condition under which a variance from the elevation standard
may be issued is for new construction and substantial improvements to be
erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by
lots with existing structures constructed below the base flood level, providing
items 1-11 in Section 5.1120 have been fully considered.  As the lot size

Clatsop County Land and Water V-19  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
increases the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases
2) Variances shall only be issued upon:
(A) A showing of good and sufficient cause,
(B) A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant, and
(C) A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in increased
flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public
expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public or
conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
3) Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any increase in
flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
4) Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance is the
minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
5) Variances may be issued for a water dependent use provided that
(A) The criteria of paragraphs (1) through (4) of this section are met, and;
(B) The structure or other development is protected by methods that minimize
flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats to
public safety.
6) Variances may be issued for the repair restoration or rehabilitation of structures
listed on the National Register of Historic Places or the Statewide Inventory of
Historic Properties, without regard to the procedures set forth in this section.
7) Variances as interpreted in the National Flood Insurance Program are based on
the general zoning law principle that they pertain to a physical piece of property;
they are not personal in nature and do not pertain to the structure, its inhabitants,
economic or financial circumstances. They primarily address small lots in densely
populated residential neighborhoods. As such, variances from the flood
elevations should be quite rare.
8) Variances may be issued for nonresidential buildings in very limited
circumstances to allow a lesser degree of floodproofing than watertight or dry-
floodproofing, where it can be determined that such action will have low damage
potential, complies with all other variance criteria and otherwise complies with
building codes.
9) When a variance is granted, the county shall give written notice to the property
owner within five days after the decision is final. The notice shall state that:
(A) The structure or manufactured home will be allowed to be built or placed
with the lowest floor elevation at or below the base flood elevation, and
(B) That the issuance of the variance to construct a structure below the base
flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance as
high as twenty-five dollars for every one hundred dollars of insurance
coverage, and
(C) Such construction below the base flood level increases the risk to life and
property.

Clatsop County Land and Water V-20  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
(D) The above notification shall be maintained with a record of all variance
actions.
10) Variance Time Limit. Authorization of a variance shall conform to the
requirements of Section 2.8030.
Section 5.1130. Development Standards
1) General Standards
In all areas of special flood hazards as presented on the FIRM, the following
standards shall apply for all new construction and substantial improvements:
(A) Subdivisions:
1. All proposed new development and subdivisions shall be consistent
with the need to minimize flood damage and ensure that building
sites will be reasonably safe from flooding.
2. Residential building lots shall have adequate buildable area outside
of floodways.
3. All new development proposals and subdivision preliminary
plats/development plans shall include the mapped flood hazard
zones from the effective FIRM.
4. Base flood elevation data shall be generated and/or provided for
subdivision proposals and all other proposed development,
including manufactured home parks and subdivisions, greater than
fifty lots or five acres, whichever is less.
5. Where base flood elevation data has not been provided or is not
available from another authoritative source, it shall be generated
and/or provided for subdivision proposals and all other proposed
developments that contain at least 50 lots or five acres, whichever
is less.
6. All new development in a subdivision shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electric and water systems located
and constructed to minimize flood damage.
7. All subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce
exposure to flood hazards. In AO and AH zones, drainage paths
shall be provided to guide floodwater around and away from all
proposed and existing structures.
(B) Coastal High Hazard Area:
In coastal high hazard areas (V Zones), alteration of sand dunes shall be
prohibited unless it has been demonstrated by engineering analysis that
the alteration will not increase potential flood damage.
(C) Tsunami Inundation Zone:
1. New essential and new special occupancy structures shall not be
constructed in the Tsunami Inundation Zone. The Tsunami
Inundation Zone may include V, A, and potentially other flood

Clatsop County Land and Water V-21  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
zones. If an exception is granted then the Coastal High Hazard
Area construction standards in this ordinance shall apply to the
building of these new structures in the Tsunami Inundation Zone.
(D) Building Design and Construction:
1. Buildings and structures, including manufactured dwellings, within
the scope of the building codes, including repair of substantial
damage and substantial improvement of such existing buildings
and structures, shall be designed and constructed in accordance
with the flood-resistant construction provisions of these codes,
including but not limited to Section R322 of the Residential
Specialty Code and Section 1612 of the Structural Specialty Code.
(E) Construction Materials and Methods:
1. All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood
damage.
2. All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
3. Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities shall be elevated to one foot
above flood level so as to prevent water from entering or
accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding.
(F) Review of Development Permits:
1. Where elevation data is not available, either through the flood
insurance study or from other administrative source, applications
for development permits shall be reviewed to assure that proposed
construction will be reasonably safe from flooding. The test of
reasonableness is a local judgment and includes use of historical
data, high water marks, photographs of past flooding, etc. where
available. Failure to elevate to at least two feet above grade in
these zones may result in higher insurance rates.
(G) Anchoring:
1. All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the
structure.
2. All manufactured dwellings must likewise be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement, and shall be installed using
methods and practices that minimize flood damage. Anchoring
methods may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or
frame ties to ground anchors.
(H) Utilities:
1. All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;

Clatsop County Land and Water V-22  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
2. New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems
and discharge from the systems into flood waters; and
3. C) On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding
consistent with the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
regulations.
(I) Foundation Protection: A registered professional civil engineer shall
develop or review the structural design, specifications and plans for the
foundation of the building and shall certify that the design and methods of
construction are in accordance with accepted practices to withstand
flotation, collapse, lateral movement, erosion and scour, undermining, and
the effects of water and wind acting simultaneously on all building
components during the base flood.
2) Specific Standards
In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has been
provided (Zones A1-A30, AH and AE) as set forth in this ordinance, the following
provisions are required:
(A) Manufactured Dwellings:
1. New and replacement manufactured dwellings are within the scope
of the building codes; and,
2. All new manufactured dwellings and replacement manufactured
dwellings shall be installed using methods and practices which
minimize flood damage and shall be securely anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse and lateral movement during the base flood.
Methods of anchoring include, but are not limited to, use of over-
the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. Additional techniques may
be found in FEMA’s “Manufactured Home Installation in Flood
Hazard Areas” guidebook. This requirement is in addition to
applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind
forces.
3. Manufactured dwellings supported on solid foundation walls shall
be constructed with flood openings that comply with Section
5.1130(1)(E), above.
4. Electrical crossover connections shall be a minimum of 12 inches
above BFE.
(B) Critical Facilities:
Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA).
Construction of new critical facilities shall be permissible within the SFHA
if no feasible alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed
within the SFHA shall have the lowest floor elevated three feet above BFE

Clatsop County Land and Water V-23  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
(or depth number in AO zones) or to the height of the 0.2 percent (500-
year) flood, whichever is higher. Access to and from the critical facility
should also be protected to the height utilized above. Floodproofing and
sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances or
persistent organic pollutants as defined by the Oregon Department of
Environmental Quality will not be displaced by or released into
floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above the level of the base flood
elevation shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(C) Residential Construction:
1. New construction or substantial improvement of any residential
structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated
to a minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation.
2. Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to
flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or must
meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
a. A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one (1) square inch for every square foot of
enclosed area subject to flooding shall be provided;
b. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one (1)
foot above grade; and
c. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters.
(D) Non-Residential Construction:
New construction or substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial, or other non-residential structure shall either have the lowest
floor, including basement, elevated to a minimum of one (1) foot above the
base flood elevation or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall:
1. Be flood proofed so that below the base flood level the structure is
water tight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water;
2. Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
3. Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect that
the design and methods of construction are in accordance with
standards of practice for meeting provisions of this subsection
based on their development and/or review of the structural design,

Clatsop County Land and Water V-24  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
specifications and plans. Such certification shall be provided as set
forth in Section 5.1060(2).
4. Applicants floodproofing non-residential buildings shall be notified
that flood insurance premiums will be based on rates that are one
foot below the floodproofed level (e.g., a building floodproofed to
the base flood level will be rated as one foot below).
5. If construction will be elevated instead of floodproofed, fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to flooding
shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces
on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters.
Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or must meet or
exceed the following minimum criteria:
a. A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one (1) square inch for every square foot of
enclosed area subject to flooding shall be provided;
b. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one (1)
foot above grade; and
c. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters.
(E) Below-grade crawl spaces:
1. The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy. Hydrostatic loads and the effects of buoyancy can
usually be addressed through the required openings stated in 2)
below. Because of hydrodynamic loads, crawlspace construction is
not allowed in areas with flood velocities greater than five (5) feet
per second unless the design is reviewed by a qualified design
professional, such as a registered architect or professional
engineer. Other types of foundations are recommended for these
areas.
2. The crawlspace is an enclosed area below the base flood elevation
(BFE) and, as such, must have openings that equalize hydrostatic
pressures by allowing the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.
The bottom of each flood vent opening can be no more than one (1)
foot above the lowest adjacent exterior grade.
3. Portions of the building below the BFE must be constructed with
materials resistant to flood damage. This includes not only the
foundation walls of the crawlspace used to elevate the building, but
also any joists, insulation, or other materials that extend below the

Clatsop County Land and Water V-25  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
BFE. The recommended construction practice is to elevate the
bottom of joists and all insulation above BFE.
4. Any building utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated
above BFE or designed so that floodwaters cannot enter or
accumulate within the system components during flood conditions.
Ductwork, in particular, must be either placed above the BFE or
sealed from floodwaters.

5. The interior grade of a crawlspace below the BFE must not be more
than two (2) feet below the lowest adjacent exterior grade.
6. The crawlspace shall not be temperature controlled.
7. The height of the below-grade crawlspace, measured from the
interior grade of the crawlspace to the top of the crawlspace
foundation wall must not exceed four (4) feet at any point. The
height limitation is the maximum allowable unsupported wall height
according to the engineering analyses and building code
requirements for flood hazard areas.
8. There must be an adequate drainage system that removes
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawlspace. The enclosed
area should be drained within a reasonable time after a flood event.
The type of drainage system will vary because of the site gradient
and other drainage characteristics, such as soil types. Possible
options include natural drainage through porous, well-drained soils
and drainage systems such as perforated pipes, drainage tiles or
gravel or crushed stone drainage by gravity or mechanical means.
Figure 2: Requirements for below-grade crawlspace construction. (Provided by FEMA)

Clatsop County Land and Water V-26  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
9. The velocity of floodwaters at the site should not exceed five (5)
feet per second for any crawlspace. For velocities in excess of five
(5) feet per second, other foundation types should be used.
10. If the crawlspace provisions listed in 1) through 8) above are used
written notice shall be given that the structure will be rated for flood
insurance as having its lowest floor below the base flood elevation,
and that the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with that
rating.
(F) Fences and Walls:
1. New fencing shall be designed to collapse under conditions of the
base flood or to allow the passage of water by having flaps or
openings in the areas at or below the base flood elevation sufficient
to allow flood water and associated debris to pass freely.
(G) On-site Sewage Systems:
1. Soil absorption systems shall be located outside of flood hazard
areas. Where suitable soil absorption sites outside of the flood
hazard area are not available, the soil absorption site is permitted
to be located within the flood hazard area provided it is located to
minimize the effects of inundation under conditions of the base
flood.
2. Mound systems in flood hazard areas shall be prohibited.
(H) Tanks:
1. Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from
hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy assuming the
tank is empty, during conditions of the design flood.
2. Above-ground tanks in flood hazard areas shall be:
3. Attached to and elevated to or above the base flood elevation (or
depth number in AO zones) on a supporting structure that is
designed to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement during
conditions of the design flood; or be
4. Anchored or otherwise designed and constructed to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic
and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy assuming
the tank is empty, during conditions of the design flood.
5. Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and vents shall be:
a. A minimum of 2 feet above BFE or fitted with covers
designed to prevent the inflow of floodwater or outflow of the
contents of the tank during conditions of the design flood;
and
b. Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of

Clatsop County Land and Water V-27  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
buoyancy, during conditions of the design flood.
(I) Recreation Vehicle:
In A1-30, AH, and AE Zones, all recreational vehicles to be placed on a
site must:
1. Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days, and
2. Be fully licensed and highway ready; or
3. Be elevated and anchored.
(J) Accessory Structures:
1. Relief from the elevation or dry flood-proofing standards may be
granted for an accessory structure containing no more than 200
square feet and not exceeding one story in height. Such a structure
must meet the following standards:
2. The accessory structure is not temperature controlled;
3. The accessory structure shall be located on property with a
dwelling;
4. The accessory structure shall not be used for human habitation and
shall be used solely for parking of vehicles or storage of items
having low damage potential when submerged.
5. Toxic material, oil or gasoline, or any priority persistent pollutant
identified by the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality shall
not be stored below BFE, or where no BFE is available lower than
three feet above grade, unless confined in a tank installed in
compliance with this ordinance;
6. The accessory structure shall be constructed of flood resistant
materials.
7. The accessory structure shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of
flood waters;
8. The accessory structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent
flotation;
9. All service facilities, such as electrical and heating equipment
associated with the accessory structure, shall be elevated or flood
proofed to or above the flood protection elevation, and;
10. It shall be designed to equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls by allowing for the automatic entry and exit of floodwater.
Designs for complying with this requirement must be certified by a
licensed professional engineer or architect, or
a. Provide a minimum of two openings with a total net area of
not less than one square inch for every square foot of
enclosed area subject to flooding;
b. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above the higher of the exterior or interior grade or floor

Clatsop County Land and Water V-28  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
immediately below the opening;
c. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices provided they permit the
automatic flow of floodwater in both directions without
manual intervention.
(K) Temporary Structures, Storage, and Bridges:
1. A floodplain development permit is required for construction or
placement of temporary structures, temporary storage associated
with non-residential uses, and temporary bridges located in areas
of special flood hazard:
2. Temporary structures, not including bridges, shall be limited as to
time of service, but shall not be permitted for more than 90 days.
The Floodplain Administrator is authorized to grant a one-time
extension, not to exceed 45 days, for demonstrated cause; such
cause shall reaffirm the temporary nature of the structure.
Temporary structures shall be anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement.
3. Temporary storage of materials shall be limited as to time of
service, but shall not be permitted for more than 90 days. The
Floodplain Administrator is authorized to grant a one-time
extension, not to exceed 45 days, for demonstrated cause; such
cause shall reaffirm the temporary nature of the storage. Stored
material shall be anchored or contained to prevent flotation or
release outside the assigned storage area. Hazardous materials or
materials deemed to be persistent organic pollutants by the Oregon
Department of Environmental Quality shall not be stored in the
floodway.
4. Temporary encroachments in the floodway for the purposes of
capital improvement projects (including bridges) require a floodplain
development permit. No CLOMR/LOMR is required.
Section 5.1140. Development in Floodways
1) Except as provided in paragraphs (3) and (4), encroachments, including fill, new
construction, substantial improvements, and other development are prohibited
unless certification by a registered professional civil engineer is provided
demonstrating through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in
accordance with standard engineering practice that such encroachments shall
not result in any increase in base flood or floodway elevations when compared to
pre-project conditions.
2) Any fill allowed to be placed in the floodway shall be designed to be stable under
conditions of flooding, including rapid rise and rapid drawdown of floodwaters,
prolonged inundation, and flood-related erosion and scour.

Clatsop County Land and Water V-29  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
3) Applicants shall obtain a Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) before an
encroachment in the floodway is permitted that will cause any increase in the
base flood elevation. Applicants must obtain a Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) no
later than six months after project completion.
4) Construction of new fencing is prohibited, unless the fencing is designed to
collapse or break-away, and is anchored at one end and cabled together so as to
not create debris. As an alternative to a break-away design, a new fence may be
designed to allow the passage of water by having a flap or opening in the areas
at or below the base flood elevation sufficient to allow floodwaters to pass freely.
Section 5.1150. Zones with Base Flood Elevation but no Floodway
1) In areas within Zones A1-30 and AE on the community’s FIRM with a base flood
elevation, or where a base flood elevation is developed according to Section
5.1130(2) but where no regulatory floodway has been designated, new
construction, substantial improvements, or other development (including fill) shall
be prohibited, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the
proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood more
than one foot at any point within the community.
2) Applicants of proposed projects that increase the base flood elevation more than
one foot should obtain from FEMA a Conditional Letter of Map Revision
(CLOMR) before the project may be permitted. Applicants must obtain a Letter of
Map Revision (LOMR) no later than six months after project completion.
Section 5.1160. Zones Without Base Flood Elevations
1) These standards apply in riverine areas of special flood hazard where no base
flood elevation data have been provided (A Zones):
2) When base flood elevation or floodway data have not been identified by FEMA in
a Flood Insurance Study and /or Flood Insurance Rate Maps, the Floodplain
Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably utilize scientific or historic
base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state, or other
source, in order to administer this ordinance. If data are not available from any
source, only then subsection 3 shall apply.
3) Where the floodplain administrator has obtained base flood elevation data,
applicants of proposed projects that increase the base flood elevation more than
one foot shall obtain from FEMA a Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR)
before the project may be permitted. Applicants must obtain a Letter of Map
Revision (LOMR) no later than six months after project completion.
4) In special flood hazard areas without base flood elevation data, no
encroachments, including structures or fill, shall be located in an Area of Special
Flood Hazard within an area equal to the width of the stream or fifty feet,
whichever is greater, measured from the ordinary high water mark, unless a base

Clatsop County Land and Water V-30  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
flood elevation is developed by a licensed professional engineer.
Section 5.1170. Coastal High Hazard Area
All other development in coastal high hazard areas (V Zones) for which specific
provisions are not specified in this ordinance or building codes, shall:
1) All new construction and substantial improvements in Zones V1-V30 and VE (V if
base flood elevation data is available) shall be elevated on pilings and columns
so that:
(A) The bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of the lowest floor
(excluding the pilings or columns) is elevated a minimum of one foot
above the base flood level; and
(B) The pile or column foundation and structure attached thereto is anchored
to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement due to the effects of wind
and water loads acting simultaneously on all building components. Wind
and water loading values shall each have a one percent change of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year (100-year mean recurrence
interval).
2) A registered professional engineer or architect shall develop or review the
structural design, specifications and plans for the construction, and shall certify
that the design and methods of construction to be used are in accordance with
accepted standards of practice for meeting the provisions of 1(A) and 1(B) of this
section.
3) Obtain the elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the bottom of the lowest
structural member of the lowest floor (excluding pilings and columns) of all new
and substantially improved structures in Zones V1-30, VE and V, and whether or
not such structures contain a basement. The local administrator shall maintain a
record of all such information.
4) All new construction shall be located landward of the reach of mean high tide.
5) Provide that all new construction and substantial improvements have the space
below the lowest floor either free of obstruction or constructed with non-
supporting breakaway walls, open wood lattice-work, or insect screening
intended to collapse under wind and water loads without causing collapse,
displacement, or other structural damage to the elevated portion of the building
or supporting foundation system. For the purpose of this section, a breakaway
wall shall have a design safe loading resistance of not less than 10 and no more
than 20 pounds per square foot. Use of breakaway walls which exceed a design
safe loading resistance of 20 pounds per square foot (either by design or when
so required by local or state codes) may be permitted only if a registered
professional engineer or architect certifies that the designs proposed meet the
following conditions:
(A) Breakaway wall collapse shall result from water load less than that which
would occur during the base flood; and

Clatsop County Land and Water V-31  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
(B) The elevated portion of the building and supporting foundation system
shall not be subject to collapse, displacement, or other structural damage
due to the effects of wind and water loads acting simultaneously on all
building components (structural and non-structural. Maximum wind and
water loading values to be used in this determination shall each have a
one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year (100-
year mean recurrence interval).
6) If breakaway walls are utilized, such enclosed space shall be useable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage. Such space shall not be used for
human habitation.
7) Prohibit the use of fill for structural support of buildings.
8) Prohibit man-made alteration of sand dunes which would increase potential flood
damage.
9) All manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved within Zones V1-
V30, V and VE that are:
(A) Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
(B) In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
(C) In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision, or
(D) In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as the result of a
flood
 shall comply with the requirements of Section 5.1170(1)-(8). Manufactured
homes placed or substantially improved on all other sites in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision shall comply with the requirements of
Section 5.1130(2)(A).
10) Recreational vehicles places on sites within Zones V1-V30, V and VE shall:
(A) Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
(B) Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, on its wheels or jacking
systems and attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and
security devices, and have to permanently attached additions; or
(C) Meet the requirements of Section 5.1170(1)-(8).

Section 5.1180. Non-Coastal High Hazard Areas
1) All development in non-coastal high hazard areas (A zones) for which specific
provisions are not specified in this ordinance or building codes, shall:
2) Be located and constructed to minimize flood damage;
3) Be designed so as not to impede flow of flood waters under base flood
conditions;
4) If located in a floodway, meet the limitations of Section 5.1150 of this ordinance;
5) Be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral movement resulting from hydrostatic
loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during conditions of the design flood;

Clatsop County Land and Water V-32  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
6) Be constructed of flood damage-resistant materials; and
7) Have electric service and or mechanical equipment elevated above the base
flood elevation (or depth number in AO zones), except for minimum electric
service required to address life safety and electric code requirements.
Section 5.1190. Specific Standards for Areas of Shallow Flooding (AO and AH
Zone)
Shallow flooding areas appear on FIRMs as AO zones with depth designations. The
base flood depths in these zones range from 1 to 3 feet above ground where a clearly
defined channel does not exist, or where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where
velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is usually characterized as sheet flow. In
these areas, the following provisions apply:
1) New construction and substantial improvements of residential structures and
manufactured homes within AO zones shall have the lowest floor (including
basement) elevated above the highest grade adjacent to the building, a minimum
of one foot above the depth number specified on the FIRM (at least two feet if no
depth number is specified).
2) New construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential structures
within AO zones shall either:
(A) Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the highest
adjacent grade of the building site, one foot or more above the depth
number specified on the FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number is
specified); or
(B) Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be completely flood
proofed to or above that level so that any space below that level is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water
and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. If this
method is used, compliance shall be certified by a registered professional
engineer or architect as in section 5.1130(2)(E).
3) Require adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes to guide
floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
4) Recreational vehicles placed on sites within AO zones on the community’s FIRM
either:
(A) Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days, and
(B) Be fully licensed and ready for high use, on its wheels or jacking system,
is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security
devices, and has no permanently attached additions; or
(C) Meet the requirements of Section 5.1170(1)-(8).

Clatsop County Land and Water V-33  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
Section 5.1200. Requirement to Submit New Technical Data
1) Within six months of project completion, an applicant who obtains an approved
Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) from FEMA, or whose development
modifies floodplain boundaries, modifies base flood elevations, or alters a
watercourse, shall obtain from FEMA a Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) reflecting
the as-built changes to the FIRM.
2) It is the responsibility of the applicant to have technical data prepared in a format
required for a Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) or Letter of Map
Revision (LOMR) and to submit such data to FEMA on the appropriate application
forms. Submittal and processing fees for these map revisions shall be the
responsibility of the applicant.
3) Clatsop County shall be under no obligation to sign the Community
Acknowledgement Form, which is part of the CLOMR/LOMR application, until the
applicant demonstrates that the project will or has met the requirements of this
code and all applicable State and Federal laws.

SECTION 5.2000. TSUNAMI INUNDATION ZONE
Section 5.2010. Review Required
Pursuant to OAR 632-05-050 Tsunami Inundation Zone, persons proposing new
construction of or the conversion to essential facilities, hazardous facilities, major
structures, or special occupancy structures are required to contact the Oregon
Department of Geology and Mineral Industries (DOGAMI) at the earliest reasonable
date for a consultation regarding the requirements of ORS 455.446 and 455.447 that
pertain to their proposed facility or structure. As used in this section, “essential facility”
means hospitals and other medical facilities having surgery and emergency treatment
areas, fire and police stations, tanks or other structures containing housing or
supporting water or fire suppression materials or equipment required for the protection
of essential or hazardous facilities or special occupancy structures, emergency vehicle
shelters and garages, structures and equipment in emergency-preparedness centers,
standby power generating equipment for essential facilities, and structures and
equipment in government communication centers and other facilities required for
emergency response. As used in this section, “hazardous facility” means structures
housing supporting or containing sufficient quantities of toxic or explosive substances to
be of danger to the safety of the public if released. As used in this section, “special
occupancy structure” means covered structures whose primary occupancy is public
assembly with a capacity greater than 300 persons, buildings with a capacity greater
than 250 individuals for every public, private or parochial school through secondary
level or child care centers, buildings for colleges or adult education schools with a
capacity greater than 500 persons, medical facilities with 50 or more resident,
incapacitated patients not included in facilities mentioned above, jails and detention
facilities, and all structures and occupancies with a capacity greater than 5,000 persons.

Clatsop County Land and Water V-34  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
Section 5.2020. Verification of Review
Prior to the issuance of a development permit for a regulated structure or facility, the
developer of that structure or facility shall present verification of consultation with
DOGAMI, or verification of an exception.

Clatsop County Land and Water V-35  July 22, 2025
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-02
ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION 5.3000. GEOLOGIC HAZARDS OVERLAY (GHO)
Section 5.3005. Purpose
The intent of the geologic hazards overlay is to minimize building hazards and threats to
life and property that may be created by landslides, ocean flooding and erosion, weak
foundation soils, and other hazards as identified and mapped by the County. This
purpose is achieved by basing County decisions on accurate geologic and soils
information prepared by qualified professionals.
[ORD. 25-02]
Section 5.3010. Applicability
This section applies to all development in the following geologically hazardous areas:
1) Areas subject to mass wasting including:
(A) Active landslides, inactive landslides, landslide topography and mass
movement topography identified in the Oregon Department of Geology
and Mineral Industries (DOGAMI) Bulletins 74 and 79;

(B) Faults including definite, indefinite, inferred and concealed in the Oregon
Department of Geology and Mineral Industries (DOGAMI) Bulletins 74 and
79;
(C) All areas identified in the report, “A Field Inventory of Geologic Hazards
from Silver Point to Cove Beach, Clatsop County, Oregon”, prepared by
Martin Ross in 1978, as needing site specific investigations;
2) Areas subject to wave attack, including:
(A) All Ocean Front Lots; and
(B) The beach and dune hazard area as defined in Section 5.4020.
3) The determination of whether a property is located in one of the above
referenced hazardous areas shall be made by the Community Development
Mass wasting. (Provided by geologyin.com)

Clatsop County Land and Water V-36  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
Director. If a specific site does not include the characteristics for which it is
mapped, the Director shall grant a waiver from the requirements of Section
5.3000. The waiver shall be in the form of a written finding. The finding shall be
based on a report, from a professional specified in Section 5.3020, detailing the
basis for the determination that the site does not contain the identified geologic
condition.
[ORD. 25-02]
Section 5.3015. Geologic Hazard Permit Requirements
1) Development activity is not permitted in an identified hazard area unless:
(A) A waiver has been granted under Section 5.3010
(B) The proposed use is exempted under Section 5.3020
(C) The applicant obtains a geologic hazard permit under this section
2) Application for a geologic hazard permit shall be on forms provided by the
County and shall include a geotechnical report prepared in conformance with the
requirements of Section 5.3025. [ORD. 24-12]
3) Before a development permit can be issued, the geotechnical report must be
approved as part of the development permit approval process.
(A) Where a geotechnical report recommends that additional site
investigations, such as borings or test pits, are undertaken, the results of
those investigations must be included in the building permit application
package.
(B) Where an application is made for a subdivision or a planned development
located in an area identified in Section 5.3010, a geotechnical report in
conformance with Section 5.3025 shall be prepared.
4) Application for a geologic hazard permit may be made concurrently with an
application for a development permit.
[ORD. 24-12; ORD. 25-02]
Section 5.3020. Exemptions
The following development activities are exempt from the requirement for a Geologic
Hazard Permit:
1) Maintenance, repair, or alterations to existing structures that do not alter the
building footprint or foundation;
2) Exploratory excavations under the direction of a certified engineering geologist or
registered geotechnical engineer;
3) Site evaluations, installation, and repair of onsite sewage disposal systems;
4) Construction of structures which do not require either a development permit or
building permit;
5) Excavation which is less than 30 inches in depth and which involves less than 30
cubic yards of volume;
6) Fill which is less than 30 inches in depth and which involves less than 30 cubic

Clatsop County Land and Water V-37  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
yards of volume;
7) Retaining walls up to 30 inches in height which do not support a building;
8) Forest operations subject to regulation under ORS 527 (the Oregon Forest
Practices Act);
9) Mining operations subject to regulation by the Oregon Department of Geology
and Mineral Industries (DOGAMI);
10) Maintenance and repair of public and private roads, streets, parking lots,
driveways, and culverts;
11) Maintenance and repair of utility lines, and the installation of individual utility
service connections;
12) Emergency response activities intended to reduce or eliminate an immediate
danger to life, property, or flood or fire hazard; and
13) Beachfront protective structures subject to regulation by the Oregon Parks and
Recreation Department under OAR Chapter 736, division 20.
[ORD. 23-12; ORD. 25-02]

Section 5.3025 Geotechnical Report Requirements
For the purposes of Section 5.3000, Geologic Hazard Report refers to engineering
geologic reports, geotechnical reports, and geotechnical engineering reports.
1) Geologic Hazard Reports shall be prepared consistent with the following:
(A) standard geologic practices and scientific and engineering principles;
(B) the applicable provisions outlined in the Oregon State Board of Geologist
Examiners publication “Guidelines for Preparing Engineering Geologic
Reports,” 2nd Edition (May 30, 2024) or other published best practice
guidelines for engineering geologic or geotechnical engineering reports.
(C) Reports shall reference the published guidelines upon which they are
based.
2) For Ocean Front Lots, Geologic Hazard Reports shall address the applicable
criteria and development standards listed in Section 5.4000, Beach and Dune
Overlay (BDO).
3) Geologic Hazard Reports shall include the following from the preparer(s) of the
report:
(A) A statement that all the applicable content requirements of Section 5.3025
have been addressed or are not applicable to the review. An explanation
shall be provided for any requirement identified as not applicable;
(B) A description of the qualifications of the professional(s) that prepared the
report. If multiple professionals contributed to the report, each professional
shall individually sign and stamp their own work products; and
(C) A statement by the preparer(s) that they have the appropriate
qualifications to have completed the report and all its contents.
4) All Geologic Hazard Reports are valid for a period of 5 years from the date of
preparation. Such reports are valid only for the development plan addressed in

Clatsop County Land and Water V-38  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
the report. Clatsop County assumes no responsibility for the quality or accuracy
of such reports.
[ORD. 23-12; ORD. 24-12; ORD. 25-02]
Section 5.3030. Geologic Hazard Permit Review
An application for a geologic permit shall be reviewed under a Type I procedure.
1) A geologic hazard permit shall be approved by the Director if:
(A) The conclusions of the report support findings that the site’s geologic
characteristics will not adversely affect the proposed development and the
proposed site modifications will not adversely affect geologic conditions
and processes in the immediate area: or
(B) The conclusions of the report identify specific actions that shall be taken to
ensure the proposed development will not increase the risk of geologic
conditions and processes in the immediate area.
2) Specific recommendations contained in the geologic report shall be incorporated
into the approved geologic hazard permit.
3) The specific recommendations contained in the geotechnical report, and
conditions applied to the geologic hazard permit shall be incorporated into the
plans and specifications submitted with the development permit application.
4) If the geologic hazard report has not been prepared to support a specified
development, the person(s) who prepared the report shall submit a letter
verifying that the proposed project has been reviewed and complies with the
recommendations contained in the report submitted with the geologic hazard
permit. If the proposed project does not comply with the recommendations, the
letter shall include additional recommendations or changes required to bring the
project into compliance. This letter shall be included in the development permit
application.
5) If the geologic hazards report is more than 5 years old, a letter shall be submitted
from the person(s) who prepared the report verifying that the geotechnical report
is still valid for the proposed project.
[ORD. 23-12; ORD. 25-02]
Section 5.3035. Geological Hazard Reports for Ocean Front Lots [ORD. 25-09]
Reports for new developments on vacant, Ocean Front Lots shall include the following
information, analysis and recommendations. [ORD. 25-16]
1) Site description:
(A) The history of the site and surrounding areas, such as previous riprap or
dune grading permits, erosion events, exposed trees on the beach, or
other relevant local knowledge of the site.
(B) Topography, including elevations and slopes on the property itself.
(C) Vegetation cover.

Clatsop County Land and Water V-39  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
(D) Subsurface materials – the nature of the rocks and soils.
(E) Conditions of the seaward front of the property, particularly for sites having
a sea cliff.
(F) Presence of drift logs or other flotsam on or within the property.
(G) Description of streams or other drainage that might influence erosion or
locally reduce the level of the beach.
(H) Proximity of nearby headlands or jetties which might block the longshore
movement of beach sediments, thereby affected the level of the beach in
front of the property.
(I) Description of any shore protection structures that may exist on the
property or on nearby properties.
(J) Presence of pathways or stairs from the property to the beach.
(K) Existing human impacts on the site, particularly that might alter the
resistance to wave attack.
(L) Location and condition of nearby beach access sites.
2) Description of the front beach:
(A) Average widths of the beach during the summer and winter.
(B) Median grain size of beach sediment.
(C) Average beach slopes during the summer and winter.
(D) Elevations above mean sea level of the beach at the seaward edge of the
property during summer and winter.
(E) Presence of rip currents and rip embayments that can locally reduce the
elevation of the front beach.
(F) Presence of rock outcrops and sea stacks, both offshore or within the
beach zone.
(G) Information regarding the depth of beach sand down to bedrock at the
seaward edge of the property.
3) Analyses of Erosion and Flooding Potential:
(A) Analysis of DOGAMI beach monitoring data for the site or nearby area (if
available)
(B) Analysis of human activities affecting shoreline erosion.
(C) Analysis of possible mass wasting, including weathering processes, land
sliding or slumping.
(D) Calculation of wave run-up beyond mean water elevation that might result
in erosion of the sea cliff or foredune.
(E) Evaluation of frequency that erosion-inducing processes could occur,
considering the most extreme potential conditions of unusually high-water
levels together with severe storm wave energy.
(F) For dune-backed shorelines, use established geometric model to assess
the potential distance of property erosion and compare the results with
direct evidence obtained during site visit, aerial photo analysis, or analysis
of DOGAMI beach monitoring data.

Clatsop County Land and Water V-40  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
(G) Description of estimated local sea level rise over the next 50 years and
impacts of that sea level change on the site, including during severe storm
conditions.
4) Assessment of Potential Erosion Control Options:
(A) Determination of eligibility for beachfront protective structures as
prescribed in Section 5.4000: Beach and Dune Overlay Zone.
(B) Assessment of potential erosion events, including erosion caused by sea
level rise and climate change conditions, and potential responses that
address the need for future erosion control measures.
(C) Assessment of how the proposal is consistent with applicable beach and
Dune Overlay Zone approval criteria.
5) Geologic hazard reports for land divisions and for development requiring building
permits on ocean front lots shall also include the following recommendations:
(A) Use results from the above analyses to establish setback (beyond any
minimums established by the Land and Water Development and Use
Code, building techniques, or other mitigation to ensure an acceptable
level of safety and compliance with all local requirements.
(B) Recommend a foundation and site design that facilities structure
relocation in the event the structure is threatened by erosion or flooding in
the future.
(C) Recommend methods to control and direct water drainage to not cause
erosion or visual impacts.
6) Geologic hazard reports for activities on ocean front lots shall be informed by the
following report and any later applicable reports published by the department of
Geology and Mineral Industries. Allan, J. C., & O’Brien, F. (2025). Beaches and
Dunes of Clatsop County, Oregon: 1975 to 2022 (Open-File Report O-25-04).
Oregon Department of Geology and Mineral Industries.

SECTION 5.4000. BEACH AND DUNE OVERLAY DISTRICT (BDO)
Section 5.4010. Purpose
The intent of the beach and dune overlay is to regulate uses and activities in the
affected areas in order to: ensure that development is consistent with the natural
limitations of the oceanshore; ensure that identified recreational, aesthetic, wildlife
habitat and other resources are protected; conserve, protect, where appropriate
develop, and where appropriate restore the resources and benefits of beach and dune
areas; and to reduce the hazards to property and human life resulting from both natural
events and development activities.
Section 5.4020. Applicability
The beach and dune overlay (BDO) includes the following beach and dune areas:
1) BEACH: The beach, which extends from extreme low tide landward to the
Statutory Vegetation Line established and described in ORS 390.770, or the line

Clatsop County Land and Water V-41  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
of established upland shore vegetation, whichever is further inland;
2) DUNE HAZARD AREA: The dune hazard area, which extends from the
Statutory Vegetation Line established and described by ORS 390.770 or the line
of established upland shore vegetation, whichever is further inland, landward to
the construction setback line.
3) CONSTRUCTION SETBACK LINE: The construction setback line is established
as follows:
(A) A line 570 feet landward of the Statutory Vegetation Line established and
described by ORS 390.770 for the area north of Surf Pines to the
Columbia River south jetty.
(B) The Pinehurst construction setback line, established and described in
Ordinance 92-20; and
(C) The Surf Pines construction setback line, established and described in
Ordinance 83-17 and extended north to include T7N, R10W, Section 16C,
Tax Lot 300.
(D) Elsewhere in Clatsop County, the construction setback line is described in
Section 3.0150. [ORD. 25-09]
4) DUNE CONSTRUCTION AREA: The dune construction area, which extends
from the construction setback line as defined in the section above, landward to
the eastern limit of Highway 101.
Section 5.4030. Relationship to the Underlying Zone
Uses and activities permitted in the Beach and Dune Overlay (BDO) are subject to the
provisions and standards of the underlying zone and this chapter. Where the provisions
of this district and the underlying zone conflict, the provisions of this district shall apply.
Section 5.4040 Oregon Parks and Recreation Department Regulated Uses
1) Uses and activities permitted on the beach, as defined in Section 5.4020(1) are
those permitted subject to review and approval by the Oregon Parks and
Recreation Department (OPRD) consistent with ORS 390.605-390.725 and OAR
Divisions 20-30.
2) No construction or site preparation on the beach, as defined in Section 5.4020(1)
is permitted prior to the issuance of an OPRD permit. [ORD. 25-09]
3) The County’s review of regulated uses and activities shall be coordinated with
the Oregon Parks and Recreation Department. [ORD. 25-09]
Section 5.4050. Type I Uses
The following developments and uses and their accessory uses are permitted under a
Type I procedure subject to specific development standards.
1) In the Dune Construction Area, as defined in Section 5.4020(4), any Type I
permitted uses allowed in the underlying zone subject to the applicable standards
of that zone and the applicable general standards of Section 5.4090. [ORD. 25-

Clatsop County Land and Water V-42  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
09]
2) In the Dune Hazard Area as defined in Section 5.4020(2),
(A) Maintenance and repair of existing structures, including roads and
subsurface disposal systems.
(B) Land transportation facilities as specified in Section 4.0300.
(C) Drainage improvements, including storm water outfall.
(D) Maintenance of existing riparian vegetation, including the planting of
additional riparian vegetation.
(E) Foredune breaching, where:
1. The breaching is required to replenish sand supply in interdune
areas, or is undertaken on a temporary basis for emergency
purposes such as fire control or the alleviation of a flood hazard.
2. There are no other reasonable alternatives to alleviate the
emergency.
3. The breaching does not endanger existing development.
4. The area affected by the breaching is restored according to an
approved Stabilization and Planting Program; and [ORD. 25-09]
5. At a minimum, foredunes shall be restored to a dune profile which
provides flood protection equivalent to that prior to breaching.
(F) Remedial grading, in the following cases and subject to the following
standards: [ORD. 25-09]
1. Clearing of sand which is inundating houses or commercial
buildings above their foundation sill elevations or which is
2. Clearing of sand which is inundating a street and which is
interfering with vehicular or pedestrian traffic, including clearing of
sand from a public beach access parking lot.
3. Excavation of sand necessary to alleviate storm water buildup,
based upon a report prepared by a licensed engineer. In no event
shall sand be removed from the beach and dune system.;
4. Sand may be graded to the elevation of the sill of a structure’s
foundation or to the elevation of the street. [ORD. 25-09]
5. Not more than 15 feet from the edge of the structure or street, the
graded area shall slope up to the horizontal 35-foot grading limit.
[ORD. 25-09]
6. At a minimum, within the Flood Hazard Overlay (FHO), the area
graded shall maintain the 100-year flood elevation as established
by the County Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), and the project
shall demonstrate compliance with the requirements of the Flood
Hazard Overlay Zone (Section 5.1000). [ORD. 25-09]
7. All graded sand from Ocean Front Lots and streets accessing the
beach shall be placed on the beach or foreslope portion of the
adjoining dune. [ORD. 25-09]

Clatsop County Land and Water V-43  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
8. Graded sand may be placed landward of the foredune crest in the
following circumstances: [ORD. 25-09]
a. OPRD will not approve a beach disposal.
b. There is topography across the beach access routes making
beach disposal unsafe (e.g. Scarped foredune).
c. There are wetlands or habitat across the beach access
route.
d. There is a Stabilization and Planting Program or erosion
control structure or program that would be damaged or
compromised by crossing for beach disposal.
9. No grading shall occur seaward of the Statutory Vegetation Line or
the line of established upland shore vegetation, whichever is further
inland without a permit from OPRD. [ORD. 25-09]
10. Remedial grading and deposition beyond the foredune crest shall
not lower the height of the foredune. [ORD. 25-09]
11. The path for grading sand to the foreslope of the foredune or the
beach shall not be greater than 15 feet wide. [ORD. 25-09]
12. After remedial grading, minor reshaping of the forward portion of a
dune necessary to provide an even slope for the planting of
stabilizing vegetation after grading is allowed as a part of a
remedial grading project. [ORD. 25-09]
13. Graded areas seaward of structures on ocean front lots shall be
revegetated with plants other than noxious weeds on the Oregon
Department of Agriculture Noxious Weeds List. [ORD. 25-09]
14. The permit application shall include a Stabilization and Planting
Program. [ORD. 25-09]
(G) Habitat Grading and Enhancement: Permits for the enhancement or
restoration of beach and dune landforms for the purposes of wildlife and
plant habitat are permitted in the Beach and Dune Overlay Zone subject to
the following requirements: [ORD. 25-09]
1. Any proposed vegetation removal shall be the minimum necessary
to carry out the purpose of the habitat restoration or enhancement
project.
2. Activities shall demonstrate compliance with the requirements of
the Flood Hazard Overlay Zone, if applicable.
3. Activities shall be tied to an existing conservation plan, wildlife
strategy, Endangered Species Act requirement, or other applicable
documents.
4. The permit applicable shall include a clear plan for what activities
will be carried out, the timing of the activities and shall include:
a. Grading plans and Stabilization and Planting Program
b. Methods for protecting the surrounding area from any

Clatsop County Land and Water V-44  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
adverse effects of the restoration or enhancement activities;
and
c. Measures that will be taken to minimize or eliminate hazards
to life, public, and private property, and the natural
environment which may be caused by the proposed
activities.
Section 5.4060 Type II Conditional Uses
The following developments and uses and their accessory uses are permitted under a
Type II procedure, consistent with Sections 2.5000 to 2.5030, subject to the applicable
general standards of Section 5.4090.
1) In the Dune Construction Area as defined in Section 5.4020(4), any Type II
conditional uses allowed in the underlying zone subject to the applicable
standards of that zone and the applicable standards of Section 5.4090. [ORD.
25-09]
2) On the Beach, as defined in Section 5.4020(1), and in the Dune Hazard Area as
defined in section 5.4020(2), and in the Dune Construction Area as defined in
section 5.4020(4):
(A) Pedestrian and Equestrian Trail.
1. To minimize the loss of vegetation, fencing adjacent to the trail may
be required to restrict traffic to the designated trail, and
2. New subdivisions or other developments of ten or more dwelling
units that abut the Beach as defined in Section 5.4020(1), shall
provide public trails to the beach.
(B) Beachfront Protective Structures and Non-Structural Erosion Control: the
Geologic Hazard Report shall demonstrate that:
1. The beachfront protective structure is located in an area where the
county has identified that development existed on or before
January 1, 1977.
2. The development is being threatened by erosion hazard.
3. Lower impact means of shoreline stabilization cannot provide the
level of erosion protection required to protect the development.
Following is the order shoreline stabilization solutions, from lowest
impact to highest impact. [ORD. 25-09]
a. Avoiding the hazard, moving the building
b. Non-structural erosion control
c. Hybrid erosion control (Non-structural supported by
beachfront protective structure)
d. Beachfront protective structure with persistent vegetation
e. Beachfront protective structure with no persistent vegetation
4. The structure is the minimum necessary to provide for the level of
protection that has been identified.

Clatsop County Land and Water V-45  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
5. Vegetation planting is incorporated into the project to minimize the
structure and its impacts.
6. The structure is placed as far landward as is practical, consistent
with maintaining existing riparian vegetation. [ORD. 25-09]
7. Adverse impacts on adjacent property are avoided. [ORD. 25-09]
8. Existing public access is preserved, including access along the
beach, coastal shorelands and other waterbodies. [ORD. 25-09]
a. Where public access may be impacted, the standard may be
met by mitigating the public impacts at the same location
and at the same time as the impact.
b. Mitigation actions must be specified in the geologic hazard
report and include a legal instrument making the owner of
the beachfront protective structure responsible for mitigation.
c. Mitigation to ensure that public access is preserved may
include but is not limited to constructing stairs or other
improvements to maintain public access across a beachfront
protective structure, or an owner’s obligation to remove the
beachfront protective structure or to clean up deteriorated
beachfront protective structure debris in the future if it
diminishes the public access.
9. Visual impacts from the beach are minimized.
10. Any rip-rap shall be covered with sand and revegetated with beach
grass, willow or other appropriate vegetation consistent with the
project restoration plan. [ORD. 25-09]
11. The area affected by the project is restored with stabilizing
vegetation according to the Stabilization and Planting Program
prepared by a registered professional geologist or certified
engineering geologist, consistent with Section 5.4096. [ORD. 25-
09]
12. Costs to the public are avoided; and [ORD. 25-09]
13. Adverse impacts on water currents, erosion, and accretion patterns
are avoided. [ORD. 25-09]
14. The emergency placement or riprap on the Beach, as defined in
Section 5.4020(1) requires a permit from the Oregon Parks and
Recreation Department (OPRD). [ORD. 25-09]
3) Elevating the height of foredunes using grading and/or replacement of vegetation
with species that increase dune height, where a Geologic Site Investigation
Report and Stabilization and Planting Program demonstrate that: [ORD. 25-09]
(A) The project will measurably alleviate a flood or tsunami hazard in terms of
a specified area protected from a flood or tsunami of a specified size or
elevation.
(B) The project will not diminish public access; harm significant biological

Clatsop County Land and Water V-46  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
resources or increase hazards to existing development.
(C) Foredunes shall be restored  to a dune profile which provides flood and
erosion protection at least equal to that provided before the project.
4) Foredune grading for view enhancement or to prevent inundation may be allowed
in foredune areas where an overall plan for foredune grading has been adopted
as an amendment to the Comprehensive Plan. [ORD. 25-09]
Section 5.4070. Type III Conditional Uses
The following developments and uses and their accessory uses may be permitted under
a Type III procedure, consistent with Sections 2.4020 to 2.4040, subject to the
applicable general development and use criteria of Section 5.4090. [ORD. 25-09]
1) In the Dune Construction Area as defined in Section 5.4020(4), any Type III
conditional use allowed in the underlying zone subject to applicable standards of
that zone and the applicable general standards of Section 5.4090.
2) On the Beach, as defined in section 5.4020(1), or the line of established upland
shore vegetation, whichever is further inland, and in the Dune Hazard Area as
defined in section 5.4020(2), and in the Dune Construction Area as defined in
Section 5.4020(4): [ORD. 25-09]
(A) Cable Landings: [ORD. 25-09]
1. The term “cable landing” refers to all construction and post-
construction activities and components connecting undersea
telecommunications or power cables to onshore networks. Cable
landings shall be located outside of wetlands, riparian areas, and
their buffers.
2. All components of a cable landing in the Beach and Dune Overlay
shall be considered at the same time in making a permit decision.
3. Applications and findings shall describe planning maximum build-
out condition of the cable landing and route(s).
4. A complete application shall include documentation of a pre-
application conference with coordinating state agencies and the
County.
5. Cable landing project applicants shall follow the recommendations
of state resource agencies, including Oregon Department of
Transportation, Oregon Department of State Lands, Oregon Parks
and Recreation Department, Department of Geology and Mineral
Industries and Department of Land Conservation and Development.
6. The state resource agencies shall be included in a mandatory pre-
application meeting and shall receive copies of all hearing and
decision notices.
7. In addressing the General Development and Use Criteria and
Conditional Use Criteria, the applicant shall address both temporary
construction impacts and post-construction impacts.

Clatsop County Land and Water V-47  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
8. The applicant shall include plans for responding to sinkholes and
inadvertent releases of drilling fluids.
9. The County shall require bonds or other financial guarantees to
ensure that impacts to beach and dune resources from the
following are avoided, minimized and/or mitigated:
a. Cable landing inadvertent releases and sinkholes
b. Buried cable landing structures and components that may be
exposed be erosion.
10. Cable landings in residential zones shall be processed consistent
with Section 2.0080(3), subject to the applicable general standards
of Section 5.4090 and the cable land standards above.
Section 5.4075. Type IV Uses [ORD. 25-09]
1) A Foredune Management Plan for grading to enhance views or to prevent sand
inundation in foredune areas that were committed to development on or before
January 1, 1977, may be adopted as an amendment to the Comprehensive Plan.
The Foredune Management Plan shall:
(A) Be prepared by a registered professional geologist or certified engineering
geologist who has a PhD in Coastal Geomorphology or demonstrated
experience completing foredune grading plans at the littoral cell scale.
(B) Be based on factors affecting the stability of the shoreline to be managed
including sources of sand, ocean flooding, and patterns of accretion and
erosion (including wind erosion), and the effects of beachfront protective
structures and jetties.
(C) Cover an entire beach and foredune area subject to an accretion problem,
including adjacent areas potentially affected by changes in flooding,
erosion or accretion resulting from dune grading.
(D) Specify minimum dune height and width requirements to be maintained for
protection from flooding and erosion. The minimum height for flood
protection is four feet above the 100-year flood elevation established by
the FEMA flood insurance studies.
(E) Identify and set priorities for low and narrow dune areas which need tob e
built up.
(F) Prescribe standards for redistribution of sand and temporary and
permanent stabilization measures including the timing of these activities.
(G) Prohibit removal of sand from the beach-foredune system.
(H) Be adopted as an amendment to the Comprehensive Plan.
(I) Be consistent with the Oregon Ocean Shore Management Plan, scoped in
collaboration with the Oregon Pars and Recreation Department (OPRD)
and follow OPRD recommendations.
(J) Make recommendations on the decision type and standards that should
be used to permit grading projects pursuant to the plan.

Clatsop County Land and Water V-48  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS

Section 5.4080. Prohibited Activities
The following activities are prohibited in all areas within the beach and dune overlay
(BDO) as defined in Section 5.4020:
1) Removal of sand from the beach or dune system.
2) Removal of stabilizing vegetation, except Oregon Department of Agriculture
noxious weeds or except in conjunction with a permitted development or use and
in conjunction with a Stabilization and Planting Program. [ORD. 25-09]
Section 5.4090. General Development and Use Criteria
The following criteria are applicable to developments and uses that may be allowed as
conditional uses on the Beach, as defined in Section 5.4020(1), in the Dune Hazard
Area as defined in Section 5.4020(2), and on Ocean Front lots. [ORD. 25-09]
1) For development located in all areas in the BDO as defined by Section 5.4020,
other than older stabilized dunes, findings shall address the following:
(A) The adverse effects the proposed development will have on the site and
adjacent areas;
(B) Temporary and permanent stabilization proposed and the planned
maintenance of new and existing vegetation;
(C) Methods for protecting the surrounding area from adverse effects of the
development;
(D) Hazards to life, public and private property, and the natural environment
which may be caused by the proposed use.
(E) How the proposed development will not result in the drawdown of the
groundwater supply in a manner that would lead to:
1. The loss of stabilizing vegetation:
2. The loss of water quality;
3. Saltwater intrusion into the water supply; or
4. Lowering of interdune water level. Building permits for single-unit
dwellings are exempt from this requirement if appropriate findings
are provided at the time of subdivision approval.
2) For development on the Beach, as defined in section 5.4020(1), and in the Dune
Hazard Area as defined in section 5.4020(2), and on Ocean Front Lots, a
geotechnical report in conformance with Section 5.3020, shall be required prior to
the issuance of a development permit.

Clatsop County Land and Water V-49  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
3) For development in the Dune Hazard Area as defined in section 5.4020(2) and in
the Dune Construction Area as defined in section 5.4020(4) a Stabilization and
Planting Program is required prior to the issuance of a development permit. The
Stabilization and Planting Program shall meet the requirements of Section
5.4096. [ORD. 25-09]
4) No site clearing is permitted prior to the issuance of the development permit for
the proposed development or use. Site clearing shall occur no sooner than is
necessary prior to construction. The permanent revegetation of the site shall be
started as soon as is practical, but in no event later than six months after the
completion of construction. [ORD. 25-09]

Section 5.4096. Stabilization and Planting Program [ORD. 25-09]
The goal and effect of a Stabilization and Planting Program is to protect Goal 18
resources and to protect development from hazards including windblown sand.
Stabilization and Planting Programs are required parts of some uses and activities
regulated by the Beach and Dun Overlay. Stabilization and Planting Programs may also
be permitted with review apart from any regulated use or activity to stabilize a source of
windblown/inundating sand, to proactively avoid erosion threats, or to achieve an
ecological or public access objective. Stabilization and Planting Programs shall comply
with the following standards:
1) When a Stabilization and Planting Program is proposed on an ocean front lot, on
the beach, or in the dune hazard area as defined in Section 5.4020 above, the
program shall be prepared by a registered professional geologist or certified
engineering geologist. [ORD. 25-16]
2) The program shall specify actions and responsibilities for five years.
3) The program shall be based on an analysis of the area subject to
accretion/erosion.
4) The program shall specify:
(A) Areas where vegetation is to be removed;
(B) Quantity and type of vegetation to be removed or replaced;
(C) Temporary sand stabilization measures to be used during construction;
(D) The proposed type of vegetation to be planted;
(E) Plant distribution;
(F) Required fertilization;
(G) Other vegetation maintenance;
(H) The location of any sand fences;
(I) The timing of the elements of the proposed program.
5) Fire-resistant species are the preferred stabilizing vegetation within 25 feet of
existing dwellings or structures.
6) Fencing may be permitted on a temporary basis to protect vegetation that is

Clatsop County Land and Water V-50  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
being planted as part of the program, or to control the effects of pedestrian beach
access on adjacent areas.
7) The program shall specify a date within 5 years when the fencing shall be
removed.

SECTION 5.4100. SHORELAND OVERLAY DISTRICT (SO)
Section 5.4110. Purpose
The purpose of this district is to manage uses and activities in coastal shoreland areas
which are not designated as a Shoreland Zone in a manner consistent with the
resources and benefits of coastal shorelands and adjacent estuarine aquatic areas.
Section 5.4120. Designation of Shoreland Overlay District
This overlay district refers to areas described on official Clatsop County Zoning Maps. It
does not include shoreland areas of the Columbia River Estuary designated Marine
Industrial Shoreland, Conservation Shoreland, or Natural Shoreland. Included in this
overlay district are:
1) Areas subject to ocean flooding and lands within 100 feet of the ocean shore or
within 50 feet of an estuary or a coastal lake.
2) Areas of geological instability in or adjacent to the shoreland boundary when the
geologic instability is related to or will impact a coastal water body.
3) Natural or man-made riparian resources, especially vegetation which function to
stabilize the shoreline or maintain water quality and temperature necessary for
the maintenance of fish habitat and spawning areas.
4) Areas of significant shoreland and wetland biological habitats whose habitat
quality is primarily derived from or related to the association with coastal and
estuarine areas.
5) Areas necessary for water-dependent and water-related uses, including uses
appropriate for port facilities and navigation, dredged material disposal and
mitigation sites, and areas suitable for aquaculture.
6) Areas of exceptional aesthetic or scenic quality, where the quality is primarily
derived from or associated with the coastal or estuarine areas.
7) Areas of recreational importance or public access which utilize coastal waters or
riparian resources.
8) Locations of archaeological or historical importance associated with the estuary.
9) Coastal headlands.
10) Dikes and their associated inland toe drains.
Section 5.4140. Categories of Coastal Shorelands
There are two categories of Coastal Shorelands as described below:
1) Category 1:
(A) Those shorelands described in the Estuarine and Coastal Shoreland
Element of the Comprehensive Plan as:

Clatsop County Land and Water V-51  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
1. Significant, non-estuarine marshes;
2. Riparian resources;
3. Significant fish and wildlife habitat;
4. Exceptional aesthetic resources;
5. Historical and archaeological sites.
2) Category 2:
(A) All shorelands which do not fall within 1(A)1-5 and are not currently
designated Marine Industrial Shorelands, Conservation Shorelands or
Natural Shorelands are the second category of Coastal Shorelands.

Section 5.4150. Developments Permitted with Category 1 Coastal Shorelands
Only the following uses and activities are permitted under a Type I procedure (Section
2.1010) within shorelands defined in Section 5.4140(1)(A)1)-5):
1) Low intensity, water-dependent recreation.
2) Existing and compatible farm uses and activities, excluding structures.
3) Forest operations only if natural values of the resource are protected, as
determined by administration of the Oregon Forest Practices Act, where
applicable, otherwise as determined by the Planning Division under a Type II
procedure.
4) Research or educational activities which maintain or enhance the natural
characteristics of the area and its resources.
5) Navigational aids.
6) Vegetative shoreline stabilization.
7) Maintenance and repair of existing and serviceable dikes.
8) New dikes.
Section 5.4160. Developments Permitted within Category 2 Coastal Shorelands
Within coastal shorelands defined in Section 5.4140(2) the following uses and activities
are permitted if otherwise allowed in the underlying zone, and subject to the
requirements and standards of the use in the underlying zone:
1) Uses allowed in Section 5.4150 above.
2) Single-unit dwellings, provided that, if possible, the dwelling is to be located on a
portion of the property outside of the Coastal Shoreland boundary. [ORD. 25-16]
3) Limited home occupation.
4) Home occupation in an existing building.
5) Signs.
6) Water-dependent recreation.
7) Projects for the protection of habitat, nutrient, fish, wildlife and aesthetic
resources.
8) Aquaculture.
9) Utilities as necessary for public service.

Clatsop County Land and Water V-52  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
10) Water-dependent commercial and industrial uses.

Other uses and activities within Category 2 Coastal Shorelands are allowed under a
Type IV procedure upon findings that such uses and activities are compatible with the
objectives of the Comprehensive Plan to protect riparian vegetation and wildlife habitat.

Section 5.4170. Development Standards
1) All uses and activities in the Columbia River Estuary Shoreland Overlay District
will satisfy applicable Columbia River Estuary Shoreland and Aquatic Area Use
and Activity Standards contained in the Development and Use Standards
Document.
2) If a proposal involves several uses, the standards applicable to each use shall be
satisfied.
3) For parcels totally within the Coastal Shorelands Boundary, structures shall be
sited according to lot line setbacks and Riparian Vegetation Standards in 6.5000
et seq.
4) For parcels partially within and partially outside of the Coastal Shorelands
boundary, structures shall be located outside the Boundary. This requirement
may be waived by the Community Development Director only upon a showing
that the portion of the site outside of the Boundary cannot accommodate the use
or is of such value for resource purposes that the use would impact resource
productivity less if located within Coastal Shorelands.
5) Proposed development in shoreland areas within identified hazards to
development shall be evaluated prior to construction to assure that new hazards
are not created or existing hazards are not worsened on adjacent property.

SECTION 5.4200. AQUIFER RESERVE OVERLAY DISTRICT (ARO)
Section 5.4210. Purpose
The purpose of the aquifer reserve overlay zoning district is to protect the aquifer as a
future drinking water source by controlling activities which may occur on the ground
surface. These sections apply as additional restrictions to the underlying zones. Should
the regulations of this overlay district be in conflict with the underlying zone, the conflict
shall be resolved by the application of the more stringent regulation.
Section 5.4220. Development and Uses Permitted
Unless otherwise listed in Section 5.4240, any use permitted in the underlying zone may
be allowed within the boundaries of this special district.
Section 5.4230. Conditional Development and Use

Clatsop County Land and Water V-53  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
Unless otherwise listed in Section 5.4240, any use conditionally allowed in the
underlying zone may be allowed within the boundaries of this special district subject to
the applicable standards of that zone.
Section 5.4240. Prohibited Development and Use
The following developments are prohibited in this district unless determined by the
Planning Director as set out in Section 5.4250 below that such use will not adversely
affect the aquifer:
1) Construction of subsurface sewage disposal systems.
2) Application of fertilizers in amounts and concentrations which would add nitrates
to the groundwater.
3) Construction of oil and gas storage facilities unless they are adequately protected
to prevent spillage from reaching groundwater.
4) Other activities which, in the opinion of the Community Development Director,
would cause the degradation of groundwater as a potable water source.
Section 5.4250. Determination by the Community Development Director
Any activities which, in the opinion of the Community Development Director, would
adversely affect the aquifer as a potable water source, are prohibited by Section 5.4240
above. To aid in this determination, the Community Development Director may require
certification from a qualified professional engineer or hydrologist that a proposed activity
will not cause such degradation.

SECTION 5.4300. MITIGATION SITE OVERLAY DISTRICT (MIT)
Section 5.4310. Purpose
The purpose of the Mitigation Site Overlay District is to protect identified mitigation sites
in the Columbia River Estuary from incompatible and preemptive development uses and
activities and implement mitigation and restoration actions in designated areas of the
zone. There are three priority categories and four protection levels for mitigation sites in
this district.
Section 5.4320. Designation of Mitigation Sites
Mitigation sites are described and identified on maps in the background report Mitigation
and Restoration Plan for the Columbia River Estuary of the County's Comprehensive
Plan. Revisions to mitigation site designations must be recorded by amendment to the
Comprehensive Plan and Plan Map.
Section 5.4330. Developments Allowed in Mitigation Sites
The Priority and Level of protection for a designated mitigation site may be determined
from the background report A Mitigation and Restoration Plan for the Columbia River
Estuary of the County's Comprehensive Plan. The following uses are allowable in this
overlay district:

Clatsop County Land and Water V-54  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
1) Priority 1, Level 1:
(A) Uses allowed in the underlying zone that do not preempt the use of the
site for mitigation purposes, subject to the underlying zone's development
standards.
(B) Mitigation as a Review Use under a Type II procedure pursuant to Section
2.1020 and subject to the Mitigation and Restoration Standards in Section
6.4150.
(C) In an Exclusive Farm Use (EFU) zone, farm related structures that are
valued at $5,000 or less, subject to the development standards of the
underlying zone.
(D)  Priority 1, Level 2:
(E) Uses allowed in the underlying zone that do not preempt the use of the
site for mitigation purposes, subject to the underlying zone's development
standards.
(F) Mitigation as a Review Use under a Type II procedure pursuant to Section
2.1020, and subject to the Mitigation and Restoration Standards in Section
6.4150.
(G) In an Exclusive Farm Use (EFU) zone, farm related structures that are
valued at $5,000 or less, subject to the development standards of the
underlying zone.
(H) Topographical and structural preemptive uses allowed in the underlying
zone and subject to the zone's policy and procedural requirements, under
the additional conditions that:
1. if diked, demonstration that a predetermined amount of dike
frontage (established in the Plan or during new site designations)
and contiguous diked area is retained for mitigation purposes; or
2. if upland, demonstration that a predetermined amount of
contiguous area (established in the Plan or during new site
designation) is available for excavation to allow tidal influence or
capable of being inundated through some water level control
procedure.
(I) Restoration, creation, or enhancement outside of the context of mitigation
as a Conditional Use under the conditions that:
1. if diked, demonstration that a predetermined amount of dike
frontage and contiguous diked area is retained for mitigation
purposes; or

Clatsop County Land and Water V-55  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
2. if upland, demonstration that a predetermined amount of
contiguous area is available for excavation to allow tidal influence
or capable of being inundated through some water level control
procedure. If the underlying zone is Exclusive Farm Use (EFU),
Forestry (F-80), and Agricultural/Forestry (AF), a goal exception
shall be required to implement restoration, creation or
enhancement outside of the context of mitigation.
(J) Priority 2, Level 3:
(K) Uses allowed in the underlying zone that do not preempt the use of the
site for mitigation purposes, subject to the underlying zone's development
standards.
(L) Mitigation as a Review Use Under a Type II procedure pursuant to Section
2.1020, and subject to the Mitigation and Restoration Standards in Section
6.4150.
(M) In an Exclusive Farm Use (EFU) zone, farm related structures that are
valued at $5,000 or less, subject to the development standards of the
underlying zone.
(N) Restoration, creation and enhancement outside of the context of the
mitigation as a Conditional Use under a Type II procedure pursuant to
Section 2.1020, and subject to the Mitigation and Restoration Standards in
Section 6.4150. If the underlying zone is Exclusive Farm Use (EFU),
Forestry (F-80), or Agricultural/Forestry (AF), a goal exception is required
to implement restoration, creation, or enhancement outside of the context
of mitigation.
(O) Preemptive uses allowed in the underlying zone, subject to the zone's
development standards, under the additional condition that action on the
application shall be suspended for 30 days from the date a complete
application is filed. The period of suspension is to allow interested parties
time to review the need and negotiate use of the site for mitigation. If at
the close of the 30 day period no satisfactory means of preserving the site
is established, the permit will be processed under the normal procedures.
(P) Priority 3, Level 4:
(Q) All uses allowed in the underlying zone, subject to the underlying zone's
development standards.
(R) Mitigation as a Review Use under a Type II procedure pursuant to Section
2.1020, and subject to the Mitigation and Restoration Standards in Section
6.4150.

Clatsop County Land and Water V-56  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
(S) Restoration, creation, and enhancement outside of the context of
mitigation as a Conditional Use under a Type II procedure pursuant to
Section 2.1020, and subject to the Mitigation and Restoration Standards in
Section 6.4150. If the underlying zone is Exclusive Farm Use (EFU),
Forestry (F-80), or Agricultural/Forestry (AF), a goal exception is required
to implement restoration, creation, or enhancement outside of the context
of mitigation.
Section 5.4340. Removal of the Mitigation Site Overlay District
Removal of designated mitigation sites shall be subject to the following criteria:
1) Priority 1, Level 1:
(A) Removal of the Mitigation Site Overlay District shall be allowed for any
portion of the site where a mitigation action has occurred. The site shall be
removed by an amendment to the Comprehensive Plan.
(B) Removal of the Mitigation Site Protection Overlay District before the site
has been used wholly or in part for mitigation shall be done by an
amendment to the Comprehensive Plan only where:
1. Provision is made for a replacement mitigation site of suitable
characteristics; or
2. The development need for which the mitigation site was initially
designated as a compensating action is withdrawn or reevaluated.
(C) Priority 2, Level 2:
(D) Removal of the Mitigation Site Overlay District shall be allowed for any
portion of the site where a mitigation action has occurred. The site will be
removed by plan amendment during routine plan upkeep.
(E) Removal of the Mitigation Site Overlay District shall be allowed for any
portion of the site where preemptive uses have been implemented,
including restoration, creation or enhancement outside of the context of
mitigation provided that:
1. if diked, a demonstration that a predetermined amount of dike
frontage and contiguous diked area is retained for mitigation
purposes; or
2. if upland, demonstration that a predetermined amount of
contiguous area is available for excavation to allow tidal influence
or capable of being inundated through some water level control
procedure.
(F) Removal of all or portions of the Mitigation Site Overlay District from the
Comprehensive Plan before the site has been used wholly or in part for
mitigation shall be done by Plan amendment and may only be approved if:
1. provision is made for a replacement of adequate mitigation area of
suitable characteristics in another suitable location; or

Clatsop County Land and Water V-57  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
2. the development need for which the mitigation site was initially
designated as a compensating action is withdrawn or reevaluated.
(G) Priority 2, Level 3:
(H) The Mitigation Site Overlay District shall be removed from any portion of a
site where a mitigation action has occurred or preemptive uses have been
implemented, including restoration, creation or enhancement outside of
the context of mitigation. The site shall be removed by an amendment to
the Comprehensive Plan.
(I) Removal of the Mitigation Site Overlay District for all or portions of a
designated mitigation site before the site has been used wholly or in part
for mitigation shall be done by an amendment to the Comprehensive Plan
and Zoning Ordinance where:
1. Provision is made for a replacement of adequate mitigation area of
suitable characteristics in another suitable location; or
2. The development need for which the mitigation site was initially
designated for compensatory purposes is withdrawn or
reevaluated.
(J) Priority 3, Level 4:
(K) The Mitigation Site Overlay District shall be removed from any portion of
the site that a mitigation action has occurred or preemptive uses have
been implemented, including restoration, creation or enhancement outside
of the context of mitigation. The site will be removed by an amendment to
the Comprehensive Plan.
(L) After a mitigation site has been used for mitigation or restoration, creation,
or enhancement action outside of the context of mitigation and all or a
portion of the site is no longer available for mitigation, the Mitigation Site
Overlay District designation shall be removed and the wetland or aquatic
area created through the mitigation action shall be placed in the
appropriate Aquatic designation. These changes shall be made by means
of an amendment to the Comprehensive Plan.
Section 5.4350. Preemptive Uses
Incompatible and preemptive use of mitigation sites includes the following:
1) Uses requiring substantial structural or capital improvements (e.g. construction of
permanent building) but not including dike maintenance.
2) Uses that require extensive alteration of the topography of the site, thereby
reducing the potential for mitigation (e.g. extensive site grading, elevation of the
site by placement of fill materials).

SECTION 5.4400. SENSITIVE BIRD HABITAT OVERLAY DISTRICT (SBHO)
Section 5.4410. Purpose

Clatsop County Land and Water V-58  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
The purpose of the Sensitive Bird Habitat Overlay District is to insure that habitat areas
identified as critical for the survival of the Northern Bald Eagle, Great Blue Heron, Band-
tailed Pigeon and Snowy Plover are protected from the effects of conflicting uses or
activities. This objective shall be achieved through the development of site-specific
management plans that are developed to ensure that proposed uses and activities will
neither destroy or result in the abandonment of sensitive bird habitat areas.
Section 5.4420. Definition of Nest Sites
All Northern Bald Eagle nests and roosts, Great Blue Heron rookeries, Band-tailed
Pigeon mineral springs and Snowy Plover nesting habitat identified in the Clatsop
County Comprehensive Plan shall be subject to the requirements of the Sensitive Bird
Habitat Overlay District. When additional sites are identified by the Oregon Department
of Fish and Wildlife they shall be added to the Comprehensive Plan map titled "Open
Space Resources of Clatsop County" and become subject to the requirements of the
Sensitive Bird Habitat Overlay District.
Section 5.4430. Development and Uses Permitted
Uses permitted in the underlying zone(s) are permitted or conditionally permitted in the
Sensitive Bird Habitat Overlay District subject to the additional procedure and
requirements of Section 5.4440. The SBHO does not regulate forest practices, only
those development and uses that would require a development on lands designated
Conservation Forest Lands.
Section 5.4440. Development and Use Criteria
The following review procedure and criteria shall apply:
1) The review procedure is initiated when Clatsop County receives a request for a
development permit that may affect a sensitive bird habitat;
2) A proposed use or activity is considered to have the potential for affecting a
sensitive bird habitat if it is located within a quarter mile of an eagle nest or
roosting site, or an osprey nest or it is within 600 feet of a heron rookery, or
band-tailed pigeon mineral spring or it is within 400 feet of snowy plover nesting
habitat.
3) If a proposed use or activity meets the locational criteria of subsection 5.4440(2),
Clatsop County or the Oregon Department of Forestry shall notify the Oregon
Department of Fish and Wildlife.
4) Upon notification, the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife shall review the
proposed use or activity and make a determination of whether the use or activity
has the potential for adversely affecting a sensitive bird habitat area. In making
this review and determination the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife shall
consult with the affected landowner(s) and appropriate state agencies. The
determination shall be completed within seven working days of the receipt of
notice from Clatsop County.

Clatsop County Land and Water V-59  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
5) A sensitive bird habitat will be considered affected by a use or activity if it is
located within 660 feet of an eagle or osprey site or within 300 feet of a heron
rookery or pigeon mineral spring, or within 200 feet of snowy plover nesting
habitat. However, the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife may determine
that uses and activities located further from the sensitive habitat also will affect
the site because of unique site conditions such as topography. The basis for
such a finding shall be spelled out in the Oregon Department of Fish and
Wildlife's determination of impact.
6) If the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife determines that the sensitive
habitat area will not be affected, Clatsop County may proceed with the
processing of the permit application.
7) If the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife determines that the site would be
affected, the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife shall work with the affected
property owner. In the development of a site specific habitat protection plan, the
plan shall consider nesting trees, critical nesting periods, roosting sites and buffer
areas.
8) Clatsop County will not process a development permit or activities detailed in a
notification of operation until the required management plan has been completed
and submitted to Clatsop County or the Department of Forestry.

SECTION 5.4500. DREDGED MATERIAL DISPOSAL SITE RESERVATION OVERLAY
DISTRICT (DMD)
Section 5.4510. Purpose
The intent of this district is to designate dredged material disposal sites in the County
with respect to present and expected water-dependent development and navigational
access requirements in the Columbia River Estuary and to protect these sites for
dredged material disposal operations.
Section 5.4520. District Boundaries
The DMD Site Reservation District conforms to the description of dredged material
disposal sites in the Columbia River Estuary Dredged Material Management Plan of the
County's Comprehensive Plan. Revisions to the Columbia River Estuary Dredged
Material Management Plan must be recorded by amendment to the Comprehensive
Plan. The following ordinances have amended the boundaries of the DMD overlay:
[ORD. 25-05]

An exception to Goal 16 to allow in-water disposal of dredged material in the expanded
flowlane/thalweg in depths greater than 20 feet and contiguous to the Federal
Navigation Channel, which encroach into designated aquatic Conservation areas, was
approved by Ordinance 24-16, on November 13, 2024. Approval of Ordinance 24-16 is
subject to the following conditions: [ORD. 24-18]
4) This goal exception only applies to in-water placement of dredged materials.

Clatsop County Land and Water V-60  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
This goal exception does not authorize new dredging activities within areas
designated Conservation Other Resources or Natural.
5) No in-water dredge material disposal shall occur outside areas designated
Development or outside areas included in this goal exception areas unless a new
goal exception is approved.
6) The goal exception area excludes subarea P30.1 Mouth of the Columbia River,
which extends from River mile 0 to River Mile 3 of the Columbia River.
7) All in-water dredged disposal within the goal exception areas will occur during the
in-water work periods established during consultation with the National Marine
Fisheries Service under the Endangered Species Act.
8) All in-water disposal within the goal exception areas will follow the Best
Management Practices (BMPs) established during consultation with the National
Marine Fisheries Service under the Endangered Species Act.
9) Disposal of dredged materials within the expanded flowlane/thalweg exception
area shall be reviewed using the standards in Sections 4.3730 and 4.3750,
LAWDUC. Non-federal applicants shall be required to submit all applicable
applications and must receive approval prior to commencing work. Federal
agencies, consistent with the Oregon Coastal Zone Management Program, must
demonstrate consistency with Sections 4.3730 and 4.3750, to the maximum
extent practicable.
10) Non-federal entities using the expanded flowlane/thalweg exception area for in-
water dredged material disposal shall annually submit to Clatsop County a copy
of the dredging season monitoring and reporting results for the Columbia River
that are prepared for the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality to
demonstrate compliance with the requirements of the 401 Water Quality
Certification. If the user of the goal exception area is a federal agency, the State
of Oregon is responsible for requesting the annual report they submit to the
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality per the Section 401 Water Quality
Certification and submitting that report annually to Clatsop County.
11) The informational thalweg map shall be used for advisory purposes only. In
cases where the informational thalweg map conflicts with the definition of
“expanded flowlane/thalweg disposal”, the definition shall take precedence.
12) A new thalweg map shall be prepared every 5 years and submitted to Clatsop
County Community Development and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. When
said map is not available, placement activities will continue solely based on the
text definition of thalweg placement.
13) Deepwater placement of dredged material within the expanded flowlane/thalweg
exception area: Areas deeper than 65 feet below MLLW may be used for thin-
layer placement only if the placement does not cause the area to become
permanently converted to depths shallower than 65 feet. Thin-layer placement is
defined a maximum deposition on the riverbed of 0.25 feet during placement of
each hopper dredge or barge load to minimize benthic impacts.

Clatsop County Land and Water V-61  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS

A comprehensive plan map amendment to show the estimated 5-year location of the
thalweg was adopted by Ordinance 24-17 on November 13, 2024. It is important to note
that the text descriptions and definition of “expanded flowlane/thalweg disposal” are the
regulating boundaries of this exception area. Maps and GIS data layers used by the
County are a representation of those boundaries. In cases where the informational map
and the actual location conflict, the text descriptions and definition should be used to
resolve any boundary confusion. [ORD. 24-18]

Ordinance 25-03, adopted August 27, 2025. This ordinance conditionally authorized an
exception to Goal 16 to allow in-water disposal of dredged material at shallow water
placement sites O-27.4-IW-S beginning in 2033 and at O-29.1-IW-S beginning in 2029.
This ordinance also conditionally authorized in-water temporary storage of dredged
material at transfer sites O-28.4-IW-T and O-32.4-IW-T beginning in 2025. [ORD. 25-05]

Ordinance 25-04, adopted August 27, 2025. This ordinance conditionally authorized an
exception to Goal 16 to allow in-water disposal of dredged material at shallow water
placement sites W-21.2-IW-S beginning in 2029, O-25.4-IW-S beginning in 2025, and
O-30.8-IW-S beginning in 2028. This ordinance also conditionally authorized confined
aquatic placement of dredged material at O-26.7-IW-S beginning in 2033 and shoreline
placement at site O-25.4-BN beginning in 2025 and site O-27.5-BN beginning in 2025.
[ORD. 25-05]
Section 5.4530.  Dredged Material Disposal Sites
The purpose of site designations is to protect important dredged material disposal sites
from incompatible and preemptive uses that may limit their ultimate use for the
deposition of dredged material, and to ensure that an adequate number of sites will be
reserved in order to accommodate dredged material disposal needs resulting from five
years of existing and expected water-dependent development and navigation projects.
Section 5.4540. Uses Allowed in Dredged Material Disposal Sites
Dredged material disposal including beach nourishment designated in the
Comprehensive Plan's background report Columbia River Estuary Dredged Material
Management Plan is permitted with standards under a Type I procedure if the site is
located upland or in the coastal shoreland boundary. Dredged material disposal
including beach nourishment, shallow water placement, confined aquatic placement,
shoreline placement and transfer sites for temporary storage of dredged material
designated in the Comprehensive Plan and located in aquatic areas may be allowed as
a Conditional Use under a Type II procedure. In addition, only those uses and activities
permitted or conditionally permitted in the underlying zone which are determined not to
preempt the site's future use for dredged material disposal are allowed, subject to the
policies and procedural requirements of the underlying zone. [ORD. 25-05]

Clatsop County Land and Water V-62  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS

Section 5.4550. Removal of Dredged Material Disposal Site Designation
Removal of a dredged material disposal site designation before a site has been filled to
capacity shall only be approved if:
1) Provision is made for a replacement dredged material disposal site of suitable
characteristics; or
2) The dredging need for which the site was initially designated for dredged material
disposal is withdrawn or reevaluated.
Section 5.4560. Preemptive Uses
Incompatible and preemptive uses of dredged material disposal sites include the
following:
1) Uses requiring substantial structural or capital improvements (e.g. construction of
permanent buildings);
2) Uses that require extensive alteration of the topography of the site, thereby
reducing the potential usable volume of the dredged material disposal area (e.g.
extensive site grading, elevation by placement of fill materials other than dredged
materials).
3) Uses that include changes made to the site that would present expeditious use of
the site for dredged material disposal. Such uses would delay deposition of
dredged materials on the site beyond the period of time commonly required to
obtain the necessary federal, state and local dredging and material disposal
permits (approximately 90 days).

SECTION 5.4600. QUARRY & MINING OVERLAY DISTRICT (QMO)
Section 5.4605. Purpose
The purpose and intent of the Quarry and Mining Overlay District (/QMO) is:
1) To allow the development and use of mineral and aggregate resources;
2) To provide uniform standards for extraction and processing of mineral and
aggregate resources;
3) To balance conflicts between mining operations and new and existing
surrounding conflicting uses;
4) To ensure the rehabilitation and restoration of mining sites; and
5) To protect mineral and aggregate resources for future use consistent with
Comprehensive Plan goals and policies and Statewide Planning Goal 5.
Section 5.4610. Definitions

Clatsop County Land and Water V-63  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
CONFLICTING USE -- A use authorized in the underlying zone, which, if allowed, could
adversely affect operations at a significant mineral and aggregate resource site, or
could be adversely affected by mining or processing activities at a significant site. For
purposes of this chapter, another Goal 5 resource located on or adjacent to a significant
site may be considered a conflicting use if that resource could be adversely affected by
mining or processing at the site.

ESEE ANALYSIS -- The analysis of Economic, Social, Environmental and Energy
consequences of (a) allowing mining on a significant site, and (b) allowing conflicting
uses to displace mining on a significant site. Based on the results of the ESEE analysis,
the County may determine a level of protection for the resource, and implement a
program to achieve the designated level of protection.

EXTRACTION AREA -- The area within which mineral and aggregate extraction,
processing and storage may take place under the provisions of this Chapter (see
Appendix A).

IMPACT AREA -- An area determined on a case-by-case basis through the ESEE
analysis, within which sensitive uses are limited or regulated (see Appendix A).

MINERAL AND AGGREGATE -- Includes soil, select fill, coal, metallic ore, and any
other inorganic solid excavated from a natural deposit in the earth for commercial,
industrial or constructional use.

MINING -- All or any part of the process of mining by the removal of overburden and the
extraction of natural mineral deposits thereby exposed by any method including open-pit
mining operations, auger mining operations, blasting, processing, surface impacts of
underground mining, production of surface mining refuse and the construction of
adjacent or off-site borrow pits except those pits developed for use in the construction of
access roads for surface mining operations. "Mining" does not include excavations of
sand, gravel, clay, rock or other similar materials conducted by a landowner or
maintenance of access roads, excavation or grading operations conducted in the
process of farming or cemetery operations or road construction or other on-site
construction, or the non-surface impacts of underground mines.

PROCESSING – Includes, but is not limited to, extraction, washing, crushing, milling,
screening, handling, conveying, batching and blending into asphalt or Portland cement,
and transportation of mineral and aggregate materials.

SENSITIVE USE -- A conflicting use or structure considered sensitive to dust, odor,
vibration and/or noise, such as a residence, school, park or hospital. Industrial,
agricultural and forestry activities are not sensitive uses unless the activity includes an

Clatsop County Land and Water V-64  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
accessory residential use.

SIGNIFICANT RESOURCE SITE -- Includes resource sites which meet or exceed
location, quality and quantity criteria set forth under Section 5.4665 of this Chapter and
are so designated by the County through a legislative or quasi-judicial process.
Section 5.4615. Application of Overlay Zone
The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to all lands zoned Quarry and Mining Overlay.
Nothing in this Chapter shall constitute a waiver or suspension of the provisions of any
underlying zone or concurrent overlay zone. Any conflicts between the provisions of this
Chapter and the provisions of other chapters of this Ordinance, Comprehensive Plan
Goals and Policies and the Statewide Planning Goals shall be resolved through the
ESEE analysis.

The Quarry and Mining Overlay Zone consists of two distinct areas; the Extraction area
and the Impact area.
1) EXTRACTION AREA. The mineral and aggregate extraction area shall be
applied to any site where mining will be permitted and which has been identified
as a significant resource area in the Comprehensive Plan Inventory. The area
may consist of one or more tax lots or portion(s) of single tax lots, and may be
applied to contiguous properties under different ownership. The size of the
Extraction Area shall be determined by the Goal 5 process, but between any
existing Sensitive Use and the extraction area boundary a general distance of
1,000 feet shall be applied. The exact distance may be varied through the
planning process.
2) IMPACT AREA. The mineral and aggregate Impact Area shall be applied to
properties or portions of properties adjacent to and immediately surrounding an
Extraction Area. The width of the Impact Area shall be determined through the
ESEE analysis prior to application of the QMO Overlay Zone, based on the type
of mineral or aggregate resource to be extracted as well as physical features of
the area which may cause a larger or smaller area to be affected. The minimum
width of the impact area shall be 1,000 feet from the Extraction Area boundary
unless a reduced distance is justified, based on the ESEE analysis (see example
in Appendix A).
Section 5.4620. Exemptions
The following activities are exempt from the requirements of this Chapter. Operators or
owners claiming any of these exemptions may be asked to establish the validity of the
exemption. Areas which are designated scenic resource areas in the County
Comprehensive Plan are not exempt from this chapter.
1) In zones qualified under ORS 215 and Statewide Planning Goal 3, mining less
than 500 cubic yards of material or excavation preparatory to mining of a surface

Clatsop County Land and Water V-65  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
area of less than one acre. In other zones, mining less than 1,000 cubic yards of
material or activities affecting less than one acre of land within a period of 12
consecutive calendar months.
2) Forest related quarrying regulated under the Oregon Forest Practices Act.
3) Excavations of sand, gravel, clay, rock or other similar materials conducted by a
landowner or tenant of a parcel for the primary purpose of reconstruction or
maintenance of on-site access roads.
4) Excavation or grading operations conducted in the process of farming, forestry or
cemetery operations.
5) On-site road construction or other on-site construction or non-surface impacts of
underground mines.
Section 5.4625. Pre-Existing and Non-Conforming Uses
Mineral and aggregate sites which have a valid County permit on the effective date of
this District shall be considered pre-existing sites. Pre-existing sites may continue to
operate under the standards of Section 3.1000. However, any expansion of a mineral
and aggregate activity on a pre-existing site beyond the boundaries of the surface
mining area covered by the County permit or zone, or any activity requiring a new
County permit or zone, shall require a new Conditional Use Permit in accordance with
Section 2.4000 of this Ordinance. The lawful use of any building, structure or land on
the effective date of this Chapter shall be considered a non-conforming use. Any
enlargement, alteration or other change in use, or cessation of the nonconforming use
shall be in accordance with Section 3.1000.
Section 5.4630. Permitted Uses - Extraction Areas
Any permitted use or conditional use allowed in the underlying zone, except Sensitive
Uses as defined in Section 4.404, may be permitted in the QMO Extraction Area subject
to the underlying zone criteria and as otherwise authorized by the ESEE analysis.

The following uses may be permitted in the QMO Extraction Area subject to site plan
approval in accordance with Section 5.4645:
1) Mining or extraction of rock, clay, soil, sand, gravel, or other mineral or aggregate
material.
2) Stockpiling and storage of mineral and aggregate materials.
3) Processing of:
(A) Materials, including crushing, washing, milling, screening, sizing, batching
of Portland cement; and
(B) Batching or blending of mineral and aggregate into asphaltic concrete.
(C) Buildings, structures and equipment directly related to the above permitted
uses.
4) One temporary manufactured home or recreational vehicle for a caretaker or
watchman in conjunction with a mineral and aggregate activity. The

Clatsop County Land and Water V-66  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
manufactured home shall meet the setbacks of the underlying zone, and shall be
removed when the aggregate operation ceases, unless allowed in accordance
with the requirements of the underlying zone.
5) Storage of transportation equipment or storage of machinery or equipment used
in conjunction with the on-site mineral and aggregate activity.
6) Sale of products extracted and processed on-site from a mineral and aggregate
operation.
Section 5.4635. Development Standards - Extraction Area
A development plan shall be submitted to the County Planning Division for any activity
allowed in Section 5.4630. The development plan shall provide the necessary
documents, permits, and maps to demonstrate compliance with the following standards
and requirements:
1) Screening and Buffering:
(A) An earthen berm and buffer of existing or planted trees or vegetation shall
be maintained to fully screen the view of any mineral and aggregate
activity and all related equipment from any public road, public park, or
residence within 1,000 feet. Where screening is shown through the ESEE
analysis to be unnecessary because of topography or other features of the
site, the screening requirements may be waived by the Community
Development Director.
(B) Sight obscuring fencing or approved barrier type shrubs shall be required
to eliminate any safety hazards that use of the site may create. Fencing, if
required, shall be sight obscuring and a minimum of 6 feet high.
2) Access:
(A) All private access roads from mineral and aggregate sites to public roads
shall be paved or graveled. If graveled, the access road shall be graded
and maintained as needed to minimize dust.
(B) Improvements of fees in lieu of improvements of public roads, County
roads and State highways may be required when the Community
Development Director or hearings body, in consultation with the
appropriate road authority, determines that the increased traffic on the
roads resulting from the surface mining activity will damage the road
sufficiently to warrant off-site improvement. If the fee in lieu of
improvements is required, the amount of the fee shall reflect the
applicant's pro- rated share of the actual total cost of the capital
expenditure of the road construction or reconstruction project necessitated
by and benefiting the surface mining operation. Discounts for taxes and
fees already paid for such improvements, such as road taxes for vehicles
and for property already dedicated or improved, shall be applied.
(C) Any internal road at a mineral and aggregate site within 250 feet of a
Sensitive Use shall be paved or graveled, and shall be maintained at all

Clatsop County Land and Water V-67  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
times to reduce noise and dust in accordance with County or DEQ
standards specified in the ESEE analysis.
(D) An effective vehicular barrier or gate shall be required at all access points
to the site.
3) Hours of Operation:
(A) Blasting shall be restricted to the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday
through Friday. No blasting shall occur on Saturdays, Sundays, or any
recognized legal holiday.
(B) Mineral and aggregate extraction, drilling, processing and equipment
operation located within 1,000 feet or as established by the ESEE analysis
of any Sensitive Use is restricted to the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
Monday through Friday, and 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Saturday. All other
sites are limited to operating hours of 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. Monday
through Saturday. No operation shall occur on Sundays or recognized
legal holidays.
(C) An increase in operating time limits shall be granted for all activities except
blasting if:
1. Three are no Sensitive Uses within 1,000 feet of the mining site; or
if
2. There are Sensitive Uses within 1,000 feet, the increased activity
will not exceed noise standards established by the County or DEQ;
and
3. The operator shall notify the owners and occupants of all Sensitive
Uses within 1,000 feet or the distance established by the ESEE
analysis by first class mail which is mailed at least 96 hours prior to
the date and approximate time of the activity for which the operator
receives an exception.
(D) The operating time limits may be waived in the case of an emergency as
determined by the County governing body.
4) Environmental Standards:
(A) DEQ Standards. Mineral and aggregate extraction, processing and other
operations shall conform to all applicable environmental standards of the
County and State. Any crusher, asphalt, concrete, ready-mix or other
machinery shall submit an approved DEQ permit(s) at the time of
development plan application.
(B) DOGAMI Standards. Mineral and aggregate extraction, processing, other
operations and site reclamation shall conform to the requirements of the
Department of Geology and Mineral Industries (DOGAMI).
(C) Permits Required. Mining shall not commence until all applicable State
and Federal permits, if any, are provided to the County.
(D) Equipment Removal: All surface mining equipment, machinery, vehicles,
buildings, man-made debris and other material related to the mineral and

Clatsop County Land and Water V-68  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
aggregate activity shall be removed from the site within 30 days of
completion of all mining, processing and reclamation, except for structures
which are permitted uses in the underlying zone.
5) Performance Agreement:
(A) The operator of a mineral and aggregate site shall provide the County with
annual notification of DOGAMI permits.
(B) Mineral and aggregate operations shall be insured for $500,000.00
against liability and tort arising from production activities or operations
incidental thereto conducted or carried on by virtue of any law, ordinance
or condition, and such insurance shall be kept in full force and effect
during the period of such operations. A prepaid policy of such insurance
which is effective for a period of one year shall be deposited with the
County prior to commencing any mineral and aggregate operations. The
owner of operator shall annually provide the County with evidence that the
policy has been renewed.
(C) Significant Resource Area Protection: Conflicts between inventoried
mineral and aggregate resource sites and significant fish and wildlife
habitat, riparian areas and wetlands, and ecologically and scientifically
significant natural areas and scenic areas protected by the Clatsop Plains
Community Plan or other provision of the County Comprehensive Plan,
shall be balanced as determined by the site-specific ESEE analysis.
(D) Site Reclamation: A reclamation plan shall be submitted concurrently with
the development plan required in Section 5.4645. The reclamation plan
shall include a schedule showing the planned order and sequence of
reclamation, shall assure that the site will be restored or rehabilitated for
the land uses specified in the underlying zone consistent with the site
specific Goal 5 program, and shall meet DOGAMI requirements.
6) Water Management:
(A) Surface water shall be managed in a manner which meets all applicable
DEQ, DOGAMI, and ODFW water quality standards. Approval may be
conditioned upon meeting such standards by a specified date. Discharge
across public roads shall be prohibited. Existing natural drainages on the
site shall not be changed in a manner which substantially interferes with
drainage patterns on adjoining property, or which drains waste materials
or waste water onto adjoining property or perennial streams.
(B) Where the mineral and aggregate operation abuts a lake, river, or
perennial stream, all existing vegetation within 100 feet of the mean high
water mark shall be retained unless otherwise authorized in accordance
with the ESEE analysis and the development plan.
(C) All water required for the mineral and aggregate operation, including dust
control, landscaping and processing of material, shall be legally available
and appropriated for such use. The applicant shall provide written

Clatsop County Land and Water V-69  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
documentation of water rights from the State Department of Water
Resources and/or local water district prior to any site operation.
7) Floodplain:
(A) Any QMO Extraction Area located wholly or in part in a Special Flood
Hazard Area as shown on the Federal Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) shall
receive approval in accordance with Section 5.1000 of this Ordinance prior
to any site operation.
Section 5.4640. Application Process
Final development plan approval is required prior to the beginning of any mineral and
aggregate activity listed in Section 5.4630, and before any expansion of a pre-existing
or non-conforming site. The applicant shall provide the following at the time of
application:
1) A development plan demonstrating that the development standards required in
Section 5.4635 can be met, including:
(A) Screening and fencing;
(B) Access;
(C) Hours of operation;
(D) Environmental standards;
(E) Equipment removal;
(F) Performance agreement;
(G) Significant resource area protection;
(H) Site reclamation;
(I) Water management; and
(J) Floodplain.
(K) A map or diagram showing the location and setbacks of all proposed
mineral and aggregate activities and operations and the location and
distance to all Sensitive Uses within the Impact Area.
Section 5.4645. Site Plan Review
1) Site plan review is required prior to commencement of mining. Application shall
be in the form required by the County, and shall demonstrate compliance with the
standards of Section 5.4635 and any requirements adopted as part of the Goal 5
process.
2) Applications for site plan approval of surface mining operations and activities
authorized by Section 5.4620 in accordance with ORS 215.425 and ORS
917.195.
3) The County shall approve, conditionally approve, or deny a site plan based on
the ability of the site plan to conform to the standards of Section 5.4635 and
other requirements adopted as part of the Goal 5 process.
4) If the County determines that the site plan is substantially different from the
proposal approved in the Goal 5 process, the application shall be denied or

Clatsop County Land and Water V-70  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
conditioned to comply with the decision adopted as part of the Goal 5 process, or
the applicant may choose to apply for a Comprehensive Plan amendment
whereby the original decision reached through the Goal 5 process will be
reexamined based on the revised site plan.
Section 5.4650. Impact Area - Uses and Standards
Any permitted use or conditional use allowed in the underlying zone, including Sensitive
Uses, subject to Section 5.4655, may be allowed in the QMO Impact Area subject to the
underlying zone criteria and as otherwise authorized by the ESEE analysis.
Section 5.4655. Sensitive Uses
1) The owner of a proposed new Sensitive Use shall sign and record in the County
Deed Records an Aggregate Operation Easement, Waiver of Remonstrance and
Indemnity which shall state that if the owner (or successors) of the new noise
sensitive use object to the allowed mineral and aggregate activities on the
adjacent QMO Extraction Area, the owner (or successors) of the new sensitive
use shall indemnify the County and the resource owner and operator against all
lost cost and expense including attorney's fees arising out of remonstrance
proceeding. The Aggregate Operation Easement, Waiver of Remonstrance and
Indemnity shall run with the land, until such time as the operation ends and the
site has been reclaimed in accordance with the approved reclamation plan. It
shall be a requirement of the mineral and aggregate operator to release any
restrictions, easements or waivers of remonstrance and indemnity.
2) The use will not interfere with or cause any adverse impact on a mineral and
aggregate activity allowed under Section 5.4630; and
3) The use will not prevent the adjacent mineral and aggregate activity from
meeting the standards and conditions set forth in Section 5.4645.
Section 5.4660. Designation of Overlay Zone
The Quarry and Mining Overlay zone may be applied through the initial legislative
planning process, the plan update process or through individual application for a
Comprehensive Plan amendment and zone change. The boundary of the Overlay zone
shall be all property contained in the Mineral and Aggregate Extraction Area and
Mineral and Aggregate Impact Area. Designation shall be carried out in accordance with
the LCDC Goal 5 rule, OAR 16, Division 16. Preparation of the ESEE analysis shall be
the responsibility of the applicant.
Section 5.4665. Determination of Significance
Only sites deemed significant shall be zoned Quarry and Mining (/QMO) Overlay.
Mining and processing activities at sites not zoned QMO may be allowed after
conditional use approval under the criteria of Section 2.4000. All sites which have not
been evaluated for significance shall be classified "1-B" on the County inventory for
purposes of Goal 5. The following criteria shall be used in determining significance:

Clatsop County Land and Water V-71  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
1) Significant Aggregate Resources. An aggregate resource shall have at least
250,000 cubic yards of reserve and meet at least two of the following minimum
requirements:
(A) Abrasion: Loss of not more than 35% by weight;
(B) Oregon Air Degradation: Loss of not more than 35% by weight;
(C) Sodium Sulphate Soundness: Not more than 17% by weight.
(D) Other mineral resources. Significance of non-aggregate resources shall be
determined on a case-by-case basis after consultation with DOGAMI.
Section 5.4670. Termination of QMO Zone
The Quarry and Mining Overlay zone designation shall be removed by the owner or the
County through the zone change process when:
1) The owner of the mineral and aggregate site submits evidence showing a
significant resource no longer exists on the site;
2) The mineral and aggregate resource site has been reclaimed in accordance with
the approved reclamation plan; and
3) The operator has caused to be released any operation easements, restrictions or
waivers of remonstrance and indemnity relating to the application of this
ordinance.

Clatsop County Land and Water V-72  July 22, 2025
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-02
ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION 5.4700. DESTINATION RESORT OVERLAY DISTRICT (DRO)
Section 5.4705. Purpose and Intent
The purpose of the Destination Resort Overlay District is to recognize sites that are
suitable and appropriate for the location of recreation oriented tourist and vacation
resorts, and to establish standards to guide the development of such facilities. The
Destination Resort Overlay District is intended to insure the compatibility of tourist and
vacation resorts with the natural resources of the County.

Clatsop County recognizes that ocean shorelands and major rivers (Nehalem and
Columbia) constitute outstanding natural scenic and recreational resources. Therefore,
the Destination Resort Overlay District is provided for and may be applied only to lands
some part of which are on or have a view of ocean or major river shorelines.

When a Destination Resort is requested and it is determined that an Exception is
necessary to a Statewide Planning Goal an Exception shall be taken to the appropriate
Goal or Goals.
Section 5.4710. General Provisions
1) This district may be requested where identified on the Comprehensive
Plan/Zoning Map or in the text of the Plan. The establishment of this district
requires a public hearing by the Planning Commission in conjunction with a
Conceptual Plan.

The developer has three (3) years from the date of approval for the district
change and Conceptual Plan to complete a Development Plan and be issued a
building permit for a primary use. In the event that the developer has not been
issued a building permit prior to the expiration date, the district change and
Conceptual Plan are null and void. The Director shall then amend the
Comprehensive Plan/Zoning Map to remove the /DRO District.
(A) The Director may, upon written request by the applicant, grant an
extension of the expiration date of up to one year upon the findings that:
(B) Unforeseen circumstances or conditions have caused the delay;
(C) The applicant has demonstrated reasonable diligence in attempting to
meet the time limits imposed; and
(D) Facts upon which the approval was based have not changed to an extent
sufficient to warrant refiling.
Section 5.4715. Development and Use Permitted
The following developments are permitted subject to the approved Development Plan
and to applicable development standards:
1) Developed recreation facilities, self-contained development and visitor oriented
accommodations as part of one Destination Resort.

Section 5.4720. Application of the District and Procedure

Clatsop County Land and Water V-73  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
Application of the zone to a specific property is accomplished through a zone map
change. Approval of a zone map change to Destination Resort Overlay District signifies
that the affected property is suitable for development pursuant to Section 5.4700
through 5.4760 and subject to the Conceptual Plan approved at the time of zone
change, but does not authorize development. The Conceptual Plan may contain phases
of development. The zone district or districts applicable to the property preceding the
change will be retained on the zoning map. If a proposed Development Plan (at least
Phase I if the development is to be phased) is not submitted for a site within three years
of the zone change to Destination Resort Overlay District, the Destination Resort
Overlay District designation shall be extinguished. The Community Development
Director shall then remove the Destination Resort Overlay District from the
Comprehensive Plan/Zoning Map.

While the Destination Resort Overlay District is applicable to certain property, no
development or use of the property shall occur, except as provided in Sections 5.4700
to 5.4760, in the underlying zone district or districts retained on the zoning maps and
except for pre-existing uses which may be continued.

Development pursuant to this Destination Resort Overlay District shall be reviewed and
approved without reference to the provisions of the underlying zone or zones except to
the extent that the proposed development includes uses permitted in those zones and
not otherwise permitted in the Destination Resort Overlay District. The requirements of
other applicable overlay districts and supplemental standards shall apply. A proposed
zone change from Destination Resort Overlay District to a district or districts other than
the underlying zone or zones retained on the Comprehensive Plan/Zoning Map shall be
evaluated as a change from such underlying district or districts.
1) Zone Change: An amendment to the Comprehensive Plan/Zoning Map to apply
the Destination Resort Overlay District may be initiated by the Board of
Commissioners, by the Planning Commission or by application of the property
owner. The procedure shall be as provided in Section 2.8100 through 2.8120 but
the matters to be included in an application and considered on review shall be as
set forth in Section 5.4725 and the criteria for approval of the change shall be as
set forth in Section 5.4730. A Conceptual Plan for the site shall be approved as a
part of the zone change. The Conceptual Plan will identify any areas of the site
that are not available for development and the general categories of development
permissible on the remainder of the site. If development as identified on the
Conceptual Plan requires one or more exceptions to Land Conservation and
Development Commission Goals 3, 4, 17 or 18, the Goal 2 exception process
shall be complied with at the time of the zone change.
2) Conceptual Plan: A Conceptual Plan shall determine the nature, location and
phasing, if any, of development on property in the designated Destination Resort
Overlay District. A property owner may initiate a request for approval of a

Clatsop County Land and Water V-74  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
Conceptual Plan by filing an application with the Department of Community
Development. The procedure shall be as provided in Section 5.4720(3) but the
matters to be included in an application and considered on review shall be as set
forth in Section 5.4735 and the criteria for approval shall be as set forth in
Section 5.4745.
3) Development Plan: A Development Plan shall include the elements provided in
Section 5.4750 and shall be the authority for issuance of building and other
required development permits. The proposed Development Plan shall be
submitted to the Planning Division and approved or denied by the Director
pursuant to the criteria set forth in Section 5.4755. If the proposed development
will include subdivision or major partition of the property, preliminary approval
shall be obtained prior to approval of the Development Plan. l the Conceptual
Plan authorized phased development, the Development Plan may be for one or
more of the phases. If a Development Plan is not submitted within three years of
approval of the Conceptual Plan, the latter shall expire and a new Conceptual
Plan shall be required unless prior to the end of the three year period, the
property owner submits and receives a one-year extension.
4) Pre-application Conference: Prior to submitting a zone change application or a
Conceptual Plan application, the property owner shall confer with the Community
Development Director regarding the proposal and the requisites of the
applications.
Section 5.4725. Application for Destination Resort Overlay District Zone Change
The following information shall be provided as part of the application for a zone change
to the Destination Resort Overlay District:
1) The completed application form.
2) A site map, drawn to scale, showing the subject property and all property within
250' of the boundaries of the subject property.
3) A vicinity map showing the area and land uses within ½ mile of the property.
4) A site inventory and map including the following information as is available in the
Comprehensive Plan or other readily available published inventories:
(A) SCS soils classifications.
(B) Forest site classifications.
(C) Goal 5 resources inventoried in the Comprehensive Plan.
(D) The shorelands boundary and shorelands resources inventoried in the
Comprehensive Plan.
(E) Outstanding natural features not included within (C) or (D) above.
(F) Beach and dunes land form classifications.
(G) Geologic hazards.
(H) Areas of the Clatsop Plains Groundwater Aquifer including areas where
the greatest amount of water may be withdrawn without damage of salt
water intrusion, loss of stabilizing vegetation, loss of water quality or result

Clatsop County Land and Water V-75  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
in a significant and permanent drawdown of the groundwater table.
(I) A Conceptual Plan, including phases if the project is to be developed in
phases, based on the site inventory and showing the general categories of
development proposed for the site. The site shall be divided into units
having common characteristics for the purpose of the plan. Any areas not
suitable for development shall be designated.
(J) A legal description of the subject property as it appears on the deed or
deeds.
(K) Assessor's maps of the subject property and all property within 250'.
(L) A written statement providing justification for the proposed zone change
according to the approval criteria stated in Section 5.4730.
(M) A detailed determination of how the site is suitable for the proposed resort
development considering:
1. Natural amenities of the site;
2. The type and extent of development proposed, and its direct and
indirect on- site and off-site environmental, social and energy
impacts;
3. Access to adequate transportation facilities;
4. The physical limitations for development of the site, including
natural hazards such as flooding and steep slopes; and
5. Whether or not the effects of the development can be limited to
avoid interference with continued resource use of surrounding
lands including intensive farming operations, highly sensitive
natural resource sites; and
6. Orderly and economic provision of key facilities (water, sewer, fire)
assuming full development of the subject site.
(N) An economic and fiscal impact assessment showing whether or not there
are net benefits to the County as a whole. Such an assessment should
examine and consider:
1. Changes in employment and income to the area and the County
2. Changes in local revenues and demands for new or increased
levels of public facilities and services
3. Indirect economic impacts on the surrounding area including the
effect of the loss of resource land
(O) Types, amounts and ownerships of units to be constructed.
Section 5.4730. Approval Criteria for Destination Resort Overlay District Zone
Change
A zone change to Destination Resort Overlay District shall be approved upon findings
that the following criteria are satisfied:

Clatsop County Land and Water V-76  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
1) The property has beach access or offers substantial views of ocean or major
river shorelines.
2) The proposed site is suitable to accommodate a variety of amenities in
conjunction with the living accommodations, or is located to take advantage of a
specific scenic, natural or recreational resource that will constitute a special
attraction for vacationers.
3) The proposed development of the property in accordance with the Conceptual
Plan can be accomplished without substantial interference to or significant
adverse effects upon identified sensitive or unique natural areas or ecological
features.
4) The proposed development of the property can be accomplished in accordance
with the Conceptual Plan in a manner than will be compatible with adjacent
lands.
5) Suitable access exists or can be provided to serve development of the proposed
site.
6) Adequate public services can be provided to serve full development of the
property.
7) Required findings for needed Goal exceptions have been made.
8) The requirements of Section 5.4725(4)(M) and (N).
Section 5.4735. Contents of Application for Conceptual Plan
The information required as part of the Conceptual Plan shall be as stated in Sections
2.9000 through 2.9300 of the Land and Water Development and Use Ordinance.
Section 5.4740. Development Standards
1) Land Coverage Limitation (Density): Living units, enclosed recreation,
entertainment or commercial facilities, off loading facilities, parking, roads and
streets may occupy a maximum of 35% of the gross land area of the
development.
2) Destination resorts shall be served by on-site sewage and water systems
approved by the DEQ, except in cases where it is beneficial to connect to an
existing or previously planned system serving adjacent or surrounding lands and
there are no significant adverse consequences therefrom.
3) Adequate fire protection shall be available through an existing fire district or
provided on site.
4) A Destination Resort proposal shall not alter the character of the surrounding
area in a manner which substantially limits, impairs or prevents the permitted use
of the surrounding properties. A Destination Resort proposal shall not force a
significant change in or significantly increase the cost of farm or forest practices
on nearby lands devoted to farm or forest uses.
5) To the greatest extent possible, significant vegetation and natural features on the
property shall be preserved.

Clatsop County Land and Water V-77  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
6) All requirements of other applicable County ordinance provisions shall be
satisfied. Commercial services provided as a part of the Destination Resort shall
be contained within the development.
7) Commercial buildings shall be designed to be compatible in appearance with the
living accommodations, and shall be constructed of similar materials. The
commercial services provided shall be in scale with the overall development.
8) A majority of the units must be visitor oriented accommodations. Availability of
the units shall be assured by the agreement of the applicant imposed as a
condition of Development Plan approval and by restrictive covenants recorded in
the County deed records binding living units sold separately pursuant to an
approved subdivision or condominium.
9) The Final Plan shall be consistent with the Conceptual Plan approved for the
property.
10) Trash receptacles, and parking lots shall be screened from view from public
places and neighboring properties, through the use of features such as berms,
fences, false facades, and dense landscaping.
11) There shall be a 50 foot wide landscaped area in the boundary area containing
trees and shrubs with a fence or a berm.
12) Long expanses of fence or wall along public streets or roads shall be designed to
prevent visual monotony through the use of offsets, landscaping, and change in
materials.
13) To reduce building scale along the perimeter of the development site, earth
sculpturing and other techniques shall be used.
14) The building arrangement shall provide for open space linkages in such a way
that the required open space extends from the street into the interior of the site.
15) Access shall be designed to cause minimum interference with traffic movement
on abutting streets or roads. Where necessary, additional right-of-way shall be
dedicated to maintain adequate traffic circulation.
16) Metal siding and roof surfaces shall be covered and maintained with a non-
reflective paint.
17) Artificial lighting shall be so arranged and constructed as to not produce direct
glare on adjacent residential properties or otherwise interfere with the use and
enjoyment of any property.
Section 5.4745. Conceptual Plan
The Conceptual Plan for a Destination Resort development permitted under Sections
5.4700 through 5.4755 may be approved upon finding that the following criteria have
been met:
1) The proposed development has been designed to function as an attraction for
vacationers and other visitors, and an adequate level and variety of amenities is
available in relation to the living accommodations provided to accomplish this
purpose.

Clatsop County Land and Water V-78  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
2) The development has been designed to include beach access or views of the
ocean or major river shorelands as a major feature of the project.
3) The proposed type and level of development is appropriate to the site, meets the
development standards contained herein, and will be compatible with the existing
uses of the adjacent lands as well as the potential future uses as indicated by the
current Comprehensive Plan and zoning designations.
4) The proposed means of external and internal circulation is adequate to provide
for the safe movement of vehicles and pedestrians.
5) Adequate public services will be available to serve the development, including
water supply, sewage disposal, electric power, telephone service, police and fire
protection.
6) Significant vegetation and natural features on the property have been
substantially preserved.
7) The commercial services proposed as a part of the development, if any, are in
keeping with the overall scale of the project and have been located and designed
to be compatible with the primary purpose of resort development.
8) A detailed determination of how the site is suitable for the proposed resort
development considering:
(A) Natural amenities of the site;
(B) The type and extent of development proposed, and its direct and indirect
on-site and off-site environmental, social and energy impacts;
(C) Access to adequate transportation facilities;
(D) The physical limitations for development of the site, including natural
hazards such as flooding and steep slopes; and
(E) Whether or not the effects of the development can be limited to avoid
interference with continued resource use of surrounding lands including
intensive farming operations, highly sensitive natural resource sites; and
(F) Orderly and economic provision of key facilities (water, sewer, fire)
assuming full development of the subject site.
(G) An economic and fiscal impact assessment showing whether or not there
are net benefits to the County as a whole. Such an assessment should
examine and consider:
(H) Changes in employment and income to the area and the County
(I) Changes in local revenues and demands for new or increased levels of
public facilities and services
(J) Indirect economic impacts on the surrounding area including the effect of
the loss of resource land.
Section 5.4750. Development Plan Contents
The information required as a part of the Development Plan shall be as stated in the
Clatsop County Land and Water Development and Use Code.

Clatsop County Land and Water V-79  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
Section 5.4755. Development Plan Approval Criteria
The Development Plan for the site, or for a phase of development if applicable, shall be
approved if it contains the information required under Section 5.4750, is consistent with
the approved Conceptual Plan and if all other applicable County requirements have
been met.
Section 5.4760. Conditions
Clatsop County shall require conditions necessary and sufficient to ensure that the
development is compatible with continued resource use of surrounding lands. These
measures may include, but are not limited to:
1) Limiting the number of dwelling units;
2) Limiting the overall density of the development;
3) Limiting the location of structures, roads and physical alterations, or otherwise
restricting layout to protect important natural features or to buffer the resort from
adjacent or nearby uses; and
4) Additional planning and zoning controls on nearby land to reduce or manage
pressures of off-site development created by the destination resort.

SECTION 5.4800. PLANNED DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY DISTRICT (PDO)
Section 5.4805. Purpose
It is the intent of the Planned Development special district to encourage appropriate and
orderly development of tracts of land sufficiently large to allow comprehensive planning
and to provide a degree of flexibility in the application of certain regulations which
cannot be obtained through traditional lot-by-lot subdivision. In this manner,
environmental amenities may be enhanced by promoting a harmonious variety of uses;
the economy of shared service and facilities; compatibility of surrounding areas; and the
creation of attractive, healthful, efficient, and stable environments for living, shopping, or
working. Specifically, it is the purpose of this section to promote and encourage:
1) Comprehensive development equal to or better than that resulting from traditional
lot-by- lot land use development.
2) Appropriate mixtures of housing types and designs.
3) Appropriate mixture of uses.
4) More attractive and usable open space.
5) Advances in technology, architectural design, functional land use design.
6) Recognition of the problems of population density, distribution, and circulation
and to allow a deviation from rigid established patterns of land uses, but
controlled by defined policies and objectives.
7) Flexibility of design in the placement and uses of buildings and open spaces,
circulation facilities and off-street parking areas, and to more efficiently utilize
potential of sites characterized by special features of geography, topography,
size or shape.

Clatsop County Land and Water V-80  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
It is also not the intention of this section to be a bypass of regular zoning provisions
solely to allow increased densities nor is it a means of maximizing densities on parcels
of land which have unbuildable or unusable areas.
Section 5.4810. Applicability
A Planned Development may be located in any of the following zones provided that a
Planned Development (PDO) suffix has been added to the underlying zone and
provided the development is in accordance with the criteria, standards and provisions of
this section: AC-RCR, KS-RCR, RCR, RCMFR, RSA- SFR, RSA-MFR, CR, SFR-1, RA-
1, RA-2, RA-5, RA-10, RCC, GC, TC RCC-LI, RCI, and LI (except in the Clatsop Plains
planning area).
Section 5.4815. Approval Criteria
In addition to the development standards and procedures specified in this special
district, the Planning Commission shall require that the following criteria are met prior to
approval of a Planned Development:
1) The location, size and type of development are consistent with the County
Comprehensive Plan.
2) Commercial developments part of Planned Developments shall be limited in size
and service to that appropriate to serve the neighborhood of which the Planned
Development is an integral part and shall be designed to provide goods and
services primarily to the residents of the Planned Development.
3) The location, size and design are such that the development can be well
integrated with its surroundings with little if any impact on adjacent properties and
development.
4) The location, size and type of development are such that traffic generated can be
accommodated safely and conveniently on existing or planned arterial or
collector streets or on improved roads.
5) The development will be adequately served by existing or planned facilities and
services.
6) Any deviation from the standards of the underlying zone are warranted by the
design and amenities incorporated in the development plan and program.
7) Adequate provision is made for the preservation of natural resources such as
bodies of water, significant vegetation and special terrain features.
8) Sufficient financing exists to assure that the proposed development will be
substantially completed within four (4) years of approval.
9) Permanent common open space as part of subdivisions or planned development
adjoining one another shall be integrated and continuous whenever possible.
Open space can follow ridge tops, deflation plains or shorelands, forest land (as
a buffer) and other resource lands.

Clatsop County Land and Water V-81  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
Section 5.4820. General Development and Use Standards and Requirements.
1) Size:
(A) Planned developments may be established in residential districts on
parcels of land which are suitable for and of sufficient size to be planned
and developed in a manner consistent with the purposes and objectives of
Section 5.4800. For those planned developments which are located in the
RSA-SFR, RSA-MFR, CR, SFR-1, RA-1, GC, TC, and LI zones, the site
shall include not less than four acres of contiguous land. For those located
in a RA-2 the site shall include not less than eight acres of contiguous
land, and for those located in a RA-5 the site shall include not less than
twenty acres of contiguous land, unless the Planning Commission or
Board of commissioners, upon appeal, find that property of less than the
requirement above is suitable by virtue of its unique historical character,
topography, or other natural features, or by virtue of its qualifying as an
isolated problem area.
(B) Combination residential-commercial-industrial developments may be
established in residential, commercial and light industrial zones on parcels
of land which are suitable for and of a sufficient size to be planned and
developed in a manner consistent with the purpose and objectives of
Section 5.4800.
2)  Ownership:
(A) The tract or tracts of land included in a proposed planned development
must be in one ownership or control or the subject of a joint application by
the owners of all the property included. The holder of a written option to
purchase or any governmental agency or redeveloper under contract with
a governmental agency, shall be deemed the owner of such land for the
purposes of this section.
(B) Unless otherwise provided as a condition of approval of a planned
development permit the permittee may divide and transfer units of any
development. The transferee shall use and maintain each such unit in
strict conformance with the approved permit and development plan.
3) Professional Design:
(A) The applicant for all proposed planned developments shall certify that the
talents of the following professional will be utilized in the planning process
for development: (1) an architect licensed by the state, (2) a landscape
architect licensed by the state, and (3) a registered engineer or land
surveyor licensed by the state. The Planning Commission may waive this
requirement provided the applicant can show that equivalent and
acceptable design talents have been utilized in the planning process.
(B) One of the professional consultants chosen by the applicant from the
above group shall be designated to be responsible for conferring with the
Department of Community Development with respect to the concept and

Clatsop County Land and Water V-82  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
details of the plan.
(C) The selection of the professional coordinator of the design team will not
limit the owner or the developer in consulting with the Department of
Community Development or the Commission.
(4) General Information. The planning process for development shall include:
(A) Plot plan of land in area to be developed indicating location of adjacent
streets and all private rights-of-way existing and proposed.
(B) A legal boundary survey.
(C) Existing and proposed finish grades of the property with all drainage
features.
(D)  Location of all proposed structures, together with the usage to be
contained therein and approximate location of all entrances thereto and
height and gross floor area thereof.
(E) Vehicular and pedestrian circulation features within the site and on
adjacent streets and alleys.
(F) The extent, location, arrangement and proposed improvements of all off-
street parking and loading facilities.
(G) The extent, location, arrangement, and proposed improvements of all
open space, landscaping, fences and walls.
(H) Architectural drawings and sketches demonstrating the planning and
character of the proposed development.
(I) Number of units proposed.
(J) Contour lines at 2-foot intervals.
Section 5.4825. Development and Use Standards
In addition to, or as a greater requirement to the regulations normally found in the
district, the following guidelines and requirements shall apply to all developments for
which a planned development permit is required:
1) Outdoor living area guidelines: In all residential developments, or in combination
residential-commercial-industrial developments, 40 percent of the total area
should be devoted to outdoor living area. Of this area, 25 percent of said outdoor
living area may be utilized privately by individual owners or users of the planned
development; however, 75 percent of this area should be common or shared
outdoor living area.
2) Height guidelines: The same restrictions shall prevail as permitted outright in the
district in which such development occurs, except that the Commission may
further limit heights:
(A) Around the site boundaries, and/or
(B) To protect scenic vistas from encroachments.
(C) Underground utilities: In any development which is primarily designed for
or occupied by dwellings all electric and telephone facilities, fire alarm,
conduits, street light wiring, and other wiring, conduits and similar facilities

Clatsop County Land and Water V-83  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
shall be placed underground by the developer.
3) Density guidelines:
(A) The density of a planned development shall not exceed the density of the
parent zone, except as more restrictive regulations may be prescribed as
a condition of a planned development permit. When calculating density,
the gross area is used in the total area including street dedications.
(B) Areas of public or semi-public uses may be included in calculating
allowable density.
4) Distribution of facilities without reference to lot lines: Individual buildings,
accessory buildings, off-street parking, and loading facilities, open space, and
landscaping and screening may be located without reference to lot lines, save
the boundary line of the development, except that required parking spaces
serving residential uses shall be located within 200 feet of the building containing
the living units served.
5) Waiver or reduction of yard and other dimensional requirements: Except as
otherwise provided, the minimum lot area, width and frontage, height and yard
requirements otherwise applying in the district shall not dictate the strict
guidelines for development of the planned development but shall serve to inform
the designers of the importance of developing a project that will be in harmony
with the character of the surrounding neighborhood.
6) Dedication and maintenance of facilities: The Planning Commission, or on
appeal, the Board of Commissioners, may, as a condition of approval for any
development for which a planned development permit is required, require that
portions of the tract or tracts under consideration be set aside, improved,
conveyed or dedicated for the following uses:
7) Recreation facilities: The Planning Commission or Board of Commissioners, as
the case may be, may require that suitable area for parks, playgrounds be set
aside, improved, or permanently reserved for the owners, residents, employees
or patrons of the development.
(A) Outdoor living area: Whenever private outdoor living area is provided, the
Planning Commission or Board of Commissioners shall require that an
association of owners or tenants be created into a non-profit corporation
under the laws of the State of Oregon, which shall adopt such Articles of
Incorporation and Bylaws and adopt and impose such Declaration of
Covenants and Restrictions on such outdoor living area and/or common
areas that are acceptable to the Commission. Said association shall be
formed and continued for the purpose of maintaining such outdoor living
area. Such an association, if required, may undertake other functions. It
shall be created in such a manner that owners of property shall
automatically be members and shall be subject to assessments levied to
maintain said outdoor living areas for the purposes intended. The period of
existence of such association shall be not less than 20 years, and it shall

Clatsop County Land and Water V-84  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
continue thereafter and until a majority vote of the members shall
terminate it.
(B) Streets: The Planning Commission or Board of Commissioners may
require that the right-of-way width of such other streets necessary to the
proper development of adjacent properties be dedicated to the County.
(C) Easements: Easements necessary to the orderly extension of public
utilities may be required as a condition of approval.
(D) Developments shall be allowed only if services or public facilities (water,
sewer, fire protection) are capable of supporting increased loads. Phasing
of development may be allowed if improvement of public facilities is
assured by the time of construction and the additional loads are
anticipated.
(E) If water, sewer or public utility systems are utilized either in the
development of a subdivision or the building of individual residences, the
provider of the services shall approve and show intentions to install
services to the new structure(s) prior to the issuance of either plat
approvals or development permits.
(F) All new development shall install underground utilities such as electric,
telephone and television cable.
Section 5.4830. Application Procedures
There shall be a three-stage review process for planned developments consisting of
Pre- application Conference (Stage One), Preliminary Approval (Stage Two), and Final
Approval (Stage Three).
1) Pre-application Conference (Stage One): The owner, or his authorized agent,
shall submit to the Department of Community Development the following
information:
(A) A schematic drawing, drawn to a minimum scale of one inch equals 200
feet (1"=200'), showing the general relationship contemplated among all
public and private uses and existing physical features.
(B) A written statement setting forth the source of water supply, method of
sewage disposal, means of drainage, dwelling types, non-residential uses,
lot layout, public and private access, height of structures, lighting,
landscaped areas to be devoted to various uses, and population densities
per net acre and per gross acre contemplated by the applicant.

The developer and the Department of Community Development shall meet
together and determine whether the requirements of Section 5.4810 of this
Ordinance have been complied with. If there is disagreement on this issue, the
applicant, by request, or the Department of Community Development, may take
this pre-application information to the Planning Commission for their
determination of whether this site qualifies for the contemplated planned

Clatsop County Land and Water V-85  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
development.

The applicant must indicate to the Department of Community Development or
Commission his professional design team, as outlined in Section 5.4810(1)
during Stage One, and should also designate who is to be his professional
coordinator.

The professional coordinator shall be responsible for presenting the developer's
plan in all of the broad professional aspects to the Planning Division. If the
Department of Community Development and applicant reach a satisfactory
agreement the applicant may proceed to prepare data for Stage Two-Preliminary
Approval.
2) Preliminary Approval (Stage Two):
(A) Applicants for planned developments, preliminary approval, shall be made
by the owner of all affected property or his authorized agent, and shall be
filed on a form prescribed by the Department of Community Development
and filed with said department. Applications shall be accompanied by the
following information:
1. Four (4) copies of a preliminary development plan of the entire
development, showing streets, driveways, sidewalks, pedestrian
ways, off-street parking and loading areas; location and
approximate dimensions of structures, utilization of structures,
including activities and the number of living units; major
landscaping features; relevant operational data, drawings and/or
elevations clearly establishing the scale, character and relationship
of buildings, streets, and open space. Such development plan shall
include maps and information on the surrounding area within 400
feet of the development. A boundary survey or a certified boundary
description by a registered engineer or licensed surveyor, plus
contour information, shall also be submitted.

The elevations of all points used to determine contours shall be
indicated on the preliminary plan and said points shall be given true
elevation above mean sea level as determined by the County
Engineer. The base data used shall be clearly indicated and shall
be compatible to County datum, if bench marks are not adjacent.
Two-foot contour intervals are required.

All elements listed in this subsection shall be characterized as
existing or proposed and sufficiently detailed to indicate intent and
impact.

Clatsop County Land and Water V-86  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
2. A tabulation of the land area to be devoted to various uses, and a
calculation of the average residential density per net acre.
3. A stage development schedule demonstrating that the developer
intends to commence construction within one year after the
approval of the final development plan and will proceed diligently to
completion.
4. It is proposed that the final development plan will be executed in
stages, a schedule thereof will be required.
(B) An application for a planned development permit shall be considered by
the Planning Commission under a Type III procedure. After such hearing,
the Commission shall determine whether the proposal conforms to the
planned development regulations in Sections 5.4800 through 5.4850, and
may approve or disapprove in concept the application and the
accompanying preliminary development plan or require changes or
impose conditions of approval as are in its judgment necessary to ensure
conformity to said criteria and regulations. In so doing, the Commission
may, in its discretion, authorize submission of the final development plan
in stages corresponding to different units or elements of the development.
It may do so only upon evidence assuring completion of the entire
development in accordance with the preliminary development plan and
stage development schedule. Should a decision not be rendered within 60
days after filing, the application and preliminary development plan shall be
deemed approved in concept unless said time has been extended by the
Commission.
3) Final Approval (Stage Three):
(A) Within one year after concept approval or modified approval of a
preliminary development plan, the applicant shall file with the Planning
Division a final plan for the entire development or, when submission in
stages has been authorized pursuant to Section 5.4810(2) for the first unit
of the development. The final plan shall conform in all major respects with
the approved preliminary development plan. The final plan shall include all
information included in the preliminary plan plus the following: the location
of water, sewerage and drainage facilities; detailed building and
landscaping plans and elevations; the character and location of signs;
plans for street improvements and grading or earth moving plans. The
final plan shall be sufficiently detailed to indicate fully the ultimate
operation and appearance of the development. Copies of legal documents
required by the Commission for dedication or reservation of public
facilities, or for the creation of a non-profit homeowner association, shall
also be submitted.
(B) Within 30 days after the filing of the final development plan, the
Commission shall forward such development plan and the original

Clatsop County Land and Water V-87  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
application to the County Road Department for review of public
improvements, including streets, sewers and drainage. The Commission
shall not act on a development plan until it has first received a report from
the County Road Department or until more than 30 days have elapsed
since the plan and application were sent to the County Road Department,
whichever is the shorter period.
(C) Upon receipt of the final development plan, the Planning Commission shall
examine such plan and determine whether it conforms in all substantial
respects to the previously approved planned development permit, or
require such changes in the proposed development or impose such
conditions of approval as are in its judgment necessary insure conformity
to the applicable criteria and standards. In so doing, the Commission may
permit the applicant to revise the plan and resubmit it as a final
development plan within 30 days.
(D) After final concept approval by the Planning Commission, the planned
development application will be sent to the Board of Commissioners for
consideration for final approval. A public hearing shall be held on each
such application. After such hearing, the Board of Commissioners shall
determine whether the proposal conforms to the permit criteria set forth in
the planned development regulations in Sections 5.4800 through 5.4850
and may approve or disapprove the application and the accompanying
development plan or require changes or impose conditions of approval as
are in its judgment necessary to insure conformity to said criteria and
regulations. The decision of the Board of Commissioners shall be final.
Section 5.4835. Limitation on Resubmission
Whenever an application for a planned development permit has been denied, no
application for the same plan or any portion thereof shall be filed by the same applicant
within six months after the date of denial.
Section 5.4840. Adherence to Approved Plan and Modification Thereof
1) The applicant shall agree in writing to be bound, for himself and his successors in
interest, by the conditions prescribed for approval of a development. The
approved final plan and stage development schedule shall control the issuance
of all building permits and shall restrict the nature, location, and design of all
uses. Minor changes in an approved preliminary or final development plan may
be approved by the Zoning and Subdivision Administrator if such changes are
consistent with the purposes and general character of the development plan. All
other modifications, including extension or revisions of the stage development
schedule, shall be processed in the same manner as the original application and
shall be subject to the same procedural requirements.
2) A performance bond shall be required, in an amount to be determined by the

Clatsop County Land and Water V-88  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
Planning Commission, to ensure that a development proposal is completed as
approved and within the time limits agreed to.
Section 5.4845. Violation of Conditions
Failure to comply with the final development plan, any condition of approval prescribed
under Section 5.4810(3), or to comply with the stage development schedule, shall
constitute a violation of this Ordinance. In this event, the Board of Commissioners may,
after notice and hearing, revoke a planned development permit.
Section 5.4850. Common Open Space
Maintenance of common open space shall be subject to Section 3.3060.

SECTION 5.5000. NORTH CLATSOP PLAINS OVERLAY DISTRICT (NCP)
Section 5.5010. Purpose
The North Clatsop Plains overlay district NCP implements provisions of the Clatsop
Plains Community Plan specific to the North Clatsop Plains Sub-Area. It is intended to
provide for the planned and orderly growth of the North Clatsop Plains Sub-Area while
protecting and maintaining natural resource values and preserving the semi-rural
characteristics of the area. It is further intended to maintain compatibility between land
uses in the vicinity of Camp Rilea while maintaining landowners’ rights to reasonable
use of their land.
Section 5.5020. Applicability
The North Clatsop Plains overlay district (NCP) applies to areas designated NCP on the
Clatsop County Zoning Map.

View of elk on the Clatsop Plains

Clatsop County Land and Water V-89  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
Section 5.5030. Development and Uses Permitted
Development and uses permitted in the underlying zoning district are permitted in the
North Clatsop Plains overlay district (NCP).
Section 5.5040. Conditional Development and Use
Developments and uses conditionally allowed in the underlying zoning district are
conditionally allowed in the North Clatsop Plains overlay district (NCP), pursuant to
procedures outline in Article 2 of this ordinance.
Section 5.5050. Development and Use Standards
1) Increases in residential density in the NCP overlay district through zone changes
and density transfers are prohibited.
2) Notwithstanding the provisions of Development Standards Section 3.3040, where
common open space is required to be designated within the North Clatsop Plains
Sub-Area, the location and configuration of such open space shall be prioritized
based on the following criteria; open space areas meeting more than one
criterion are preferred:
(A) Open space buffers between residential uses and Camp Rilea;
(B) Wildlife corridors;
(C) Trail corridors;
(D) Ridge tops, deflation plains, and shorelands.
3) New dwellings within the NCP overlay shall comply with the noise attenuation
construction standards of Title 15 of the Clatsop County Code of Regulations.
4) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.3050, Density Transfer Standards
within the NCP district are subject to the following requirements and exceptions:
(A) Density may be transferred more than once from a single density transfer
sending site within the /NCP overlay until all density is removed from the
site;
(B) All density transfer receiving sites shall be located outside the NCP
overlay district;
(C) Density transfer credits need not be applied to a receiving site at the time
of transfer but may be saved in a Density Transfer Bank maintained by
Clatsop County.
5.5100. STANDARDS FOR FLOATING RESIDENCES AND FLOATING
RECREATIONAL CABINS
Section 5.5110. Floating Residences & Floating Recreational Cabins
1) Except as provided in this Section, floating recreational cabins and floating
residences are not allowed in Clatsop County. Existing structures that meet
criteria described in this Section shall be allowed subject to the nonconforming
use and structure provisions of this Ordinance.
2) Floating residences and floating recreational cabins are subject to applicable
provisions of the Standards Document of Clatsop County Ordinance 80-14.

Clatsop County Land and Water V-90  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
3) New floating residences and floating recreational cabins are allowed only in
zones that specifically allow floating residences and floating recreational cabins
by approved County permit.
4) Any floating residence or floating recreational cabin in existence and lawfully
moored prior to January 1, 2000, that complies with applicable County standards
may be considered a legal nonconforming structure, and will be allowed, subject
to the provisions of this Section. A property owner wishing to obtain
nonconforming structure status shall provide documentation that substantiates
that the floating residence or recreational cabin:
(A) Was in existence and lawfully moored prior to January 1, 2000;
(B) Complies with applicable rules and regulations of the Oregon Division of
State Lands; and
(C) Complies with applicable rules and regulations of the Oregon Department
of Environmental Quality.
(D) Acceptable forms of documentation include but are not limited to, lease
agreements, legal ownership records on file with the County Clerk, tax
records, dated aerial photography, sworn affidavits and/or written reports.
(E) A lawfully moored floating residence or recreational cabin in existence
prior to January 1, 2000, that does not comply with County standards shall
have until January 1, 2006 to demonstrate compliance with those
standards and qualify for legal nonconforming status.
5.5120. Standards for Floating Residences and Floating Recreational Cabins
Floating residences and recreational cabins shall demonstrate and maintain at all times:
(1) Lawful moorage;
(2) Compliance with rules and regulations of the Oregon Division of State Lands in
existence on the date the structure was approved by Clatsop County; and
(3) Compliance with rules and regulations of the Oregon Department of
Environmental Quality in existence on the date the structure was approved by
Clatsop County.

Clatsop County Land and Water V-91  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS

Floating residences along John Day River.
5.5130.  Access and Parking Standards
The owner of a floating residence or recreational cabin must demonstrate and at all
times maintain lawful access to the structure. In addition, the owner must demonstrate
at all times not less than two (2) lawful parking spaces. The parking spaces must be at
the normal and customary location at which users park their vehicles to access the
structure.
5.5140.  Failure to Comply with Floating Residence and Floating Recreational
Cabin Standards
If it is determined by the Code Compliance Specialist that the owners or users of a
floating residence that is a lawful nonconforming structure are in violation of County
standards, the Code Compliance Specialist shall, in addition to any other remedy
allowed by law or ordinance, revoke the owner’s right to maintain the floating residence.

SECTION 5.5200. PARK MASTER PLAN ZONE (PMP)
Section 5.5210. Purpose
The purpose of this zone is to provide for the long term protection, management and
enjoyment of natural, cultural, scenic, open space and recreational resources within
publicly-owned or managed parks. Through the implementation of adopted park master
plans, this zone provides for the development of park facilities and the support of
recreational uses in a manner that is consistent with defined park management
objectives, the County’s Comprehensive Plan, and the Statewide Planning Goals.
Section 5.5220. Applicability
This zone will be applied only to public parks which has master plans adopted by
Clatsop County pursuant to OAR 660 Division 34. For state parks, the master plans
shall also have adopted by the Oregon Parks and Recreation Department (OPRD)
pursuant to OAR 736 Division 18. The adoption of this zone for a park shall supersede

Clatsop County Land and Water V-92  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
all previously adopted zones and overlay districts for the subject park property for as
long as the property remains in public ownership or management and is used for public
park purposes. In the event that such park property is transferred to private ownership
or ceases to be managed or used for park purposes, a Comprehensive Plan and Zoning
Map amendment shall be applied for and approved, consistent with the Statewide
Planning Goals, prior to the approval of any development permits for the subject
property.
Section 5.5230. Park Development and Uses Allowed
Park uses and facilities that are consistent with a park master plan adopted pursuant to
OAR 660 Division 34, and with applicable development standards, are allowed through
the review procedures specified below:
1) Uses and facilities described in the park master plan are allowed through the
review procedures specified in the master plan for the described projects.
2) Minor variations from the uses and facilities described in the park master plan are
allowed through the review procedures specified in the master plan for the
described projects, unless the master plan language specifically precludes such
variations. The standards in Section 3.195 of this ordinance shall be used to
determine whether a proposed variation from a planned use or facility is minor.
3) Accessory uses and facilities which are incidental and customarily appurtenant to
the uses and facilities described in this park master plan are allowed through
Type I procedures.
4) The repair and renovation of existing park facilities are allowed through Type I
procedures.
5) The replacement, in the same location and size, of existing park facilities is
allowed through Type I procedures.
6) The replacement, with minor location changes, of park facilities that existed on
the effective date of this ordinance (October 26, 2001) is allowed through Type 2
procedures. The standards in Section 3.916 of this ordinance shall be used to
determine whether a proposed location change for an existing park facility is
minor.
7) The minor expansion of park uses and facilities that existed on the effective date
of this ordinance (October 26, 2001) is allowed through Type 2 procedures. The
standards in Section 3.916 of this ordinance shall be used to determine whether
a proposed expansion of an existing use or facility is minor.
8) Road construction, construction, and maintenance only as provided in paragraph
(a) through (c) of this section.
(A) A road may be constructed or reconstructed if it is determined through a
Type III process that one of the following circumstances exists:
1. A road is needed to conduct a response action under the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
Liability Act (CERCLA) or to conduct a natural resource restoration

Clatsop County Land and Water V-93  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
action under CERCLA, Section 311 of the Clean Water Act, or the
Oil Pollution Act;
2. A road is needed pursuant to reserved or outstanding rights, of as
provided for by state statute or treaty;
3. Road realignment is needed to prevent irreparable resource
damage that arises from the design, location, use or deterioration of
an existing road that cannot be mitigated by road maintenance.
Realignment may occur under this paragraph only if the road is
deemed essential for public or private access, natural resource
management or public health or safety;
4. Road reconstruction is needed to implement a road safety
improvement project on an existing road determined to be
hazardous on the basis of accident experience or accident potential
on that road.
(B) A road may be constructed or reconstructed if the Oregon Parks and
Recreation Department, in consultation with Clatsop County, determines
that a road is needed to protect public health and safety in cases of an
imminent threat of flood, fire, or other catastrophic event, that, without
intervention, would cause the loss of like or property.
(C) Maintenance of existing roads is permissible.
9) Proposed park uses and facilities that are not provided for in subsections 1
through 8 of this section shall require an amendment to the park master plan
adopted through the Plan Amendment process described under OAR 660
Division 34.
Section 5.5240. Park Master Plan

Clatsop County Land and Water V-94  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
Each park master plan implemented through this ordinance shall include:
1) Findings that describe the park issues regarding the constraints, needs, and
opportunities related to the use and development of the park and the protection,
management, and interpretation of park resources.
2) Maps that adequately illustrate the locations of park resources that are important
to the use and development of the park and to the protection, management, and
interpretation of resources, including maps that depict significant habitat,
protected species, significant plant communities, water features, natural hazards,
cultural resource sites, and scenic resources.
3) Goals for park use and development for the protection, management, and
interpretation of park resources.
4) Narrative descriptions, site plans, and illustrations as necessary to adequately
describe the types, locations, sizes, capacities, and site designs of the existing
and planned park uses and facilities.
5) Guidelines for the management of the park’s natural, cultural and scenic
resources.
6) Standards for the development of planned park facilities in identified sensitive
resource areas, including riparian areas, wetlands, estuarine areas, coastal
lakes, significant upland habitat, coastal dune hazard areas, and flood hazard
areas.
7) Findings that demonstrate that the park master plan is in compliance with the
Statewide Planning Goals.
8) Any additional information that the Community Development Director deems
necessary to adequately assess the compliance of the park master plan with the
Statewide Planning Goals.
Section 5.5250. Standards for Reviewing Proposed Variations from Park Master
Plans.
The following standards shall be used to determine whether a proposed variation from a
planned park use or facility is minor. A proposed variation may be determined to be
minor if it is not expected to cause significant impacts on adjacent land uses, other uses
in the park, local public services, transportation systems, or important natural, cultural,
or scenic resources. Further:
1) A proposed location change for a planned park facility may be determined to be
minor if it does not cause the facility to serve a different park use area.
2) The following limitations shall apply to determinations involving minor expansions
of planned park facilities:
(A) A maximum of 20 percent increase in the floor area of any planned
permanent building, provided that this limitation shall not apply to the
following: toilet and shower buildings, garbage and recycling collection
buildings; campground registration and storage buildings; and any other
accessory building that does not exceed 120 square feet after expansion;

Clatsop County Land and Water V-95  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
(B) A maximum of 20 percent increase in the number of planned bedrooms in
any lodge, inn, bed and breakfast, barracks or bunkhouse, or group of
cabins, or in any park use area;
(C) A maximum of 20 percent increase in the number of planned camp sites in
any general or group camping area;
(D) A maximum of 20 percent increase in the number of planned parking
spaces in any parking lot or park use area;
(E) A maximum of 20 percent increase in the surface area of any planned
road for purposes of improving safety, realignment or widening; or
(F) Extension of a road to provide access to a planned use that is expanded
or relocated under the provisions of this section may be considered minor
only to the extent needed to serve the expanded or relocated use.
3) A proposal for a different kind or location of park use area from those in the
adopted master plan shall not be considered a minor variation.
4) Within an existing or planned park use area, a proposal for a park facility that is
different from the kind of park facilities in that park area in the adopted master
plan shall not be considered a minor variation, except that proposals for the
following different facilities may be considered minor variations: toilet and shower
buildings, garbage and recycling facilities; campground registration and storage
buildings; any other accessory structure not exceeding 120 square feet;
alternative camping structures such as yurts, camper cabins, tepees and covered
wagons in planned or existing tent and RV sites; picnic shelters in day use area;
and trails.
5) Outside of existing and planned park use areas, new trails located at least 300
feet from the nearest park boundary may be considered minor variations from
adopted master plans.
Section 5.5260. Standards for Review Proposed Location Changes and
Expansions of Existing Park Uses and Facilities
The following standards shall be used to determine whether a proposed location change
or expansion of an existing park use or facility is minor. A proposed location change or
expansion may be determined to be minor if it is not expected to cause significant
impacts on adjacent land uses, other uses in the park, local public services,
transportation systems, or important natural, cultural, or scenic resources. Further:
1) A location change for an existing park facility may be determined to be minor if it
does not cause the facility to serve a different park use.
2) The following limitations shall apply to determinations involving minor expansions
of existing park uses and facilities;

Clatsop County Land and Water V-96  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
(A) A maximum of 20 percent increase in the floor area of any permanent
building, provided that this limitation shall not apply to the following: toilet
and shower buildings, garbage and recycling collection buildings;
campground registration and storage buildings; and any other accessory
building that does not exceed 120 square feet after expansion;
(B) A maximum of 20 percent increase in the number of planned bedrooms in
any lodge, inn, bed and breakfast, barracks or bunkhouse, or group of
cabins, or in any park use area;
(C) A maximum of 20 percent increase in the number of planned camp sites in
any general o r group camping area;
(D) A maximum of 20 percent increase in the number of planned parking
spaces in any parking lot or park use area; and
(E) A maximum of 20 percent increase in the surface area of any road for
purposes of improving safety, realignment or widening; or
(F) Extension of an existing road to provide access to a that is expanded or
relocated under the provisions of this section may be considered minor
only to the extent needed to serve the expanded or relocated use.

SECTION 5.5300 AIRPORT OVERLAY ZONE (AO)
Section 5.5310. Purpose
In order to carry out the provisions of this overlay zone, there are hereby created and
established certain zones which include all of the land lying beneath the Airport
Imaginary surfaces as they apply to the airport in the (city/county). Such zones are
shown on the current airport Airspace and Runway Approach Zone drawings.

Further, this overlay zone is intended to prevent the establishment of airspace
obstructions in airport approaches and surrounding areas through height restrictions
and other land use controls as deemed essential to protect the health, safety, and
welfare of the people of the (city/county).
Section 5.5320. Special Definitions
AIRPORT APPROACH SAFETY ZONE. The land that underlies the approach surface,
excluding the RAZ

AIRPORT HAZARD. Any structure, tree, or use of land which exceeds height limits
established by the Airport Imaginary Surfaces.

AIRPORT IMAGINARY SURFACES. Those imaginary areas in space which are defined
by the Approach Surface, Transitional Surface, Horizontal Surface, and Conical Surface
and in which any object extending about these imaginary surfaces is an obstruction.

Clatsop County Land and Water V-97  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
APPROACH SURFACE. A surface longitudinally centered on the extended runway
centerline and extending outward and upward from each end of the Primary Surface.
The inner edge of the approach surface is the same width as the Primary Surface and
extends to a width of: 1,250 feet for utility runway having only visual approaches; 1,500
feet for a runway other than a utility runway having only visual approaches; 2,000 feet
for a utility runway having a non-precision instrument approach; 3,500 feet for a non-
precision instrument runway other than utility, having visibility minimums greater than
three-fourths of a statute mile; 4,000 feet for a non-precision instrument runway having
visibility minimums as low as three-fourths statute mile; and 16,000 feet for precision
instrument runways. The Approach Surface extends for a horizontal distance of 5,000
feet at a slope of 20 feet outward to each foot upward (20:1) for all utility and visual
runways; 10,000 feet at a slope of 34 feet outward for each foot upward (34:10 for all
non-precision instrument runways other than utility; and for all precision instrument
runways extends for a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet at a slope of 50 feet outward
for each foot upward (50:1); thence slopes upward 40 feet outward for each foot upward
(40:1) an additional distance of 40,000 feet.

CONICAL SURFACE. Extends 20 feet outward for each one foot upward (20:1) for
4,000 feet beginning at the edge of the horizontal surface (5,000 feet from the center of
each of the Primary Surface of each visual and utility runway or 10,000 feet for all non-
precision instrument runways other than utility at 150 feet above and airport elevation)
and upward extending to a height of 350 feet above the airport elevation.

HORIZONTAL SURFACE. A horizontal plane 150 feet above the established airport
elevation, the perimeter of which is constructed by swinging runways 5,000 feet from
the center of each end of the Primary Surface of each visual or utility runway and
10,000 feet from the center of each end of the Primary Surface of all other runways and
connecting the adjacent arcs by lines tangent to those arcs.

NOISE SENSITIVE AREA. Within 1,500 feet of an airport or within established noise
contour boundaries exceeding 55 DNL.

NON-PRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY. A runway having an existing instrument
approach procedure utilizing air navigation facilities with only horizontal guidance, or
area type navigation equipment, for which a straight-in non-precision instrument
approach procedure has been approved, or planned, or indicated on an FAA or state
planning document or military service airport planning document.

PLACE OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY. Structure of place which the public may enter for such
purposes as deliberation, education, worship, shopping, entertainment, amusement,
awaiting transportation, or similar activity.

Clatsop County Land and Water V-98  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
PRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY. A runway having an existing instrument
approach procedure utilizing an Instrument Landing System (ILS), Microwave Landing
System (MLS), Global Positioning Satellite (GPS) or a Precision Approach Radar
(PAR). It also means a runway for which a precision approach system is planned and is
not indicated by a FAA approved airport layout plan; any other FAA or state planning
document, or military service airport-planning document.

PRIMARY SURFACE. A surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When the runway
has a specifically prepared hard surface, the Primary Surface extends 200 feet beyond
each end of that runway. When the runway has no specially prepared hard surface, or
planned hard surface, the Primary Surface ends at each end of that runway. The width
of the primary Surface is 250 feet for utility runways having only visual approaches,
5,000 feet for utility runways having non-precision instrument approaches, 5,000 feet for
other than utility runways having only visual approaches or non-precision instrument
approaches with visibility minimums greater than three-fourths of a mile and 1,000 feet
for non-precision instrument runways with visibility minimums of three-fourths of a mile
or less and for precision instrument runways.

RUNWAY APPROACH ZONE (RAZ). An area off the runway end (formerly the clear
zone) used to enhance the protection of people and property on the ground. The RAZ is
trapezoidal in shape and centered about the extended runway centerline. It begins 200
feet (60m) beyond the end of the arcs usable for takeoff or landing. The RAZ
dimensions are functions of the type of aircraft and operations to be conducted on the
runway.

TRANSITIONAL SURFACE. Extend seven feet outward for each one foot upward (7:1)
beginning on each side of the Primary Surface which point is the same elevation as the
runway surface, and from the sides of the approach surfaces thence extending upward
to a height of 150 feet above the airport elevation (Horizontal Surface)

UTILITY RUNWAY. A runway that is constructed for and intended to be used by
propeller driven aircraft of 12,500 pounds maximum gross weight or less.

VISUAL RUNWAY. A runway that is intended solely for the operation of aircraft using
visual approach procedures when no instrument approach procedures have been
approved, or planned, or indicated on an FAA or state planning document or military
service airport planning document.
Section 5.5330. Permitted Uses Within the Runway Approach Zone (RAZ)
While it is desirable to clear all objects from the RAZ, some uses are permitted,
provided they do not attract wildlife, are below the approach surface and do not interfere
with navigational aids.

Clatsop County Land and Water V-99  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
1) Agricultural operations (other than forestry or livestock farms.)
2) Golf courses (but not club houses).
3) Automobile parking facilities
Section 5.5340. Conditional Uses Within the Airport Approach Safety Zone
1) A structure or building accessory to a permitted use.
2) Single-unit dwellings, mobile homes, duplexes, and multi-unit dwellings, when
allowed by the underlying zone, provided the landowner signs and records in the
deed and mortgage records of (city/county) a Hold Harmless Agreement and
Aviation and Hazard Easement and submits them to the airport sponsor and the
(city/county) Planning Departments. [ORD. 25-16]
3) Commercial and industrial uses, when allowed by the underlying zone, provided
the use does not result in:
(A) Creating electrical interference with navigational signals or radio
communication between the airport and aircraft.
(B) Making it difficult for pilots to distinguish between airport lights and lighting
from nearby land uses.
(C) Impairing visibility.
(D) Creating bird strike or other wildlife hazards.
(E) Endangering or interfering with the landing, taking off or maneuvering of
aircraft intending to use airport
(F) Attracting a large number of people
4) Buildings and uses of public works, public service, or public utility nature.
Section 5.5350. Procedures
An applicant seeking a conditional use shall follow procedures set forth in the urban
growth management plan/agreement between the (city/county). Information
accompanying the application shall also include the following:
1) Property boundary lines as they relate to the Airport Imaginary Surfaces.
2) Location and height of all existing and proposed buildings, structures, utility lines,
and roads.

In accordance with OAR Chapter 738 Division 100, City or County Planning Authority
shall notify the owner of the airport and Aeronautics Section on land use permits or
zone changes within 5,000 feet of a visual and 10,000 feet of instrument airport so as to
provide Oregon Aeronautics Section an opportunity to review and comment.
Section 5.5360. Limitations
1) To meet the standards established in FAA Regulations, Part 77 and OAR
Chapter 738 Division 70, no structure shall penetrate into the Airport Imaginary
Surfaces as defined above.
2) No place of public assembly shall be permitted in the Airport Approach Safety

Clatsop County Land and Water V-100  April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code   Codified Through Ordinance 25-16

ARTICLE 5. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
Zone or RAZ.
3) No structure or building shall be allowed within the RAZ.
4) Whenever there is a conflict in height limitations prescribed by this overlay zone
and the primary zoning district, the lowest height limitation fixed shall govern;
provided, however, that the height limitations here imposed shall not apply to
such structures customarily employed for aeronautical purposes.
5) No glare producing materials shall be used on the exterior of any structure
located within the Airport Approach Safety Zone.
6) In noise sensitive areas (within 1,500 feet of an airport or within established noise
contour boundaries of 55 DNL and above for identified airports) where noise
levels are a concern, a declaration of anticipated noise levels shall be attached to
any building permit, land division appeal, deed, and mortgage records. In areas
where the noise level is anticipated to be 55 DNL and above, prior to issuance of
a building permit for construction of noise sensitive land use (real property
normally used for sleeping or normally used as schools, churches, hospitals, or
public libraries), the permit application shall be required to demonstrate that a
noise abatement strategy will be incorporated into the building design which will
achieve an indoor noise level equal to or less than 55 DNL. The planning and
building department will review building permits or noise sensitive developments.
7) No development that attracts or sustains hazardous bird movements from
feeding, watering, or roosting across the runways and/or approach and departure
patterns of aircraft. Planning authority shall notify Oregon Aeronautics of such
development (e.g., waste disposal sites and wetland enhancements) within the
airport overlay zone so as to provide Oregon Aeronautics Section an opportunity
to review and comment on the side in accordance with FAA AC 150/5200-33.