April 2024       CLATSOP COUNTY
ADMINISTRATIVE POLICY & PROCEDURE

         Policy A-02  P a g e  | 1

SUBJECT: County Facility Snow & Ice Removal Policy

Date:   April 2024

I. POLICY

The purpose of this policy is to detail the process for snow and ice removal at county
facilities by the Buildings and Grounds staff.

II. PROCEDURE

Clatsop County Building & Grounds  (B&G) employees are normally not authorized for on -
call/ overtime opportun ities to perform snow removal 24/7. County facilities snow and ice
removal will continue or resume the next County business day. If a snow/ ice event occurs
on a weekend, snow/ice removal will resume prior to the next County office opening to the
public. If offices are open to employees and not the public, please refer to the following:

1. During a snow, or ic e event, B&G staff will make every effort to keep walkways,
entrances and parking lots safe for pedestrian travel to and from County offices.

2. In the ev ent of inclement weather, B&G staff will attempt to initially de -ice
sidewalks and parking areas if possible to preemptively treat those areas as
necessary prior to a closure.

3. In the event that County services are suspended or office closures have been
announced, B&G will resume snow/ ice removal on the next business day.

4. If services are suspended, but offices have not closed, B&G will make every effort
to have the North parking lot of building 800/820 clear of snow and ice as well as
those walk ways and ramps to the buildings North entrance area (riverside
entrance).

5. All other doors on buildings 800/820 will remain locked and closed unless an
emergency egress situation should arise in which you will be able to egress any
exit.

6. The Courthouse South parking lot will be cleared of snow and ice. All entrances
will be closed with the exception of the South ramp entrance in the event of
snow/ice.

7. The County Jail, Sheriff’s office, and Animal Shelter will be attended to in the same
manner as the Astoria County properties. The Warrenton County offices will also
have access to any snow and ice removal equipment that B &G has on hand for
afterhours applications as necessary.

CLATSOP COUNTY ADMINISTRATIVE POLICY AND PROCEDURE NO. A-02