Clatsop County Land and Water VI-1 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
ARTICLE 6.
ENVIRONMENTAL AND RESOURCE PROTECTION

SECTION 6.1000. SPECIAL SITE DEVELOPMENT FOR ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION [ORD. 25-08]
Special requirements for environmental protection are specified in Article 4 of this
document. In addition, in all areas of the County, sewer systems shall only be allowed in
those areas outside an Urban Growth Boundary if compliant with Goal 11 and OAR
660-011.

SECTION 6.1050. ESTUARY BOUNDARIES [ORD. 25-08]
Columbia River Estuary Shoreland and Aquatic Areas: Aquatic areas are below
Mean Higher High Water, in the Columbia River upstream to the eastern boundary of
Clatsop County, and in all tributary streams to the head of tide. Shorelands are all
Coastal Shorelands adjacent to the Columbia River Estuary Aquatic Areas.

Necanicum Estuary and Ecola Shoreland and Aquatic Areas: Aquatic areas are
below Mean Higher High Water in the Necanicum River, Ecola Creek, and their
respective tributary streams to the head of tide. Shorelands are all Coastal Shorelands
adjacent to the Necanicum and Ecola Estuary Aquatic Areas.

SECTION 6.2000. ALL ESTUARIES IMPACT ASSESSMENT AND RESOURCE
CAPABILITY DETERMINATION [ORD. 25-08]
Section 6.2010. Purpose
The purpose of this section is to provide an assessment process for development
alterations which could potentially alter the integrity of the estuarine ecosystem.

Section 6.2011. Impact Assessment [ORD. 25-08]
The impact assessment procedure is intended to be a comprehensive inventory and
analysis of the impacts expected from a particular development proposal. The impact
assessment will provide the information necessary to judge the capability of the
resource to accommodate the identified impacts without altering the integrity of the
resource.

Section 6.2012. Applicability [ORD. 25-08]
An Impact Assessment in accordance with the provisions of this section shall be
required for the following uses and activities:
(A) Dredging
(B) Aquatic area fill
(C) In-water structures
(D) Riprap
(E) Application of pesticides and herbicides
(F) Water intake or withdrawal

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-2 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
(G) Effluent discharges
(H) In-water dredged material disposal
(I) Expanded flowlane/thalweg disposal, for which a Goal 16 exception has been
approved
(J) Beach nourishment
(K) Other non-residential uses or activities which may impact estuarine physical or
biological resources identified in the Comprehensive Plan.
(L) Any non-residential use or activity that requires a Resource Capability
Determination

Section 6.2013. Use of Impact Assessment [ORD. 25-08]
The Impact Assessment shall be used to:
(A) identify impacts to estuarine physical, biological, and social resource,
(B) determine how impacts will be avoided, minimized, and mitigated, and
(C) provide a factual base of information that will ensure that use and activity
standards and resource capability standards are met

Section 6.2014. Permissible Sources of Information to Prepare an Impact
Assessment [ORD. 25-08]
1) Information used in the Impact Assessment may include available data and
analysis contained in:
(A) Comprehensive Plan Inventories
(B) environmental impact statements prepared for projects in the vicinity of the
present development proposal; or
(C) other published environmental and estuarine studies pertaining to the
estuaries.
2) Information to be included in an Impact Analysis: The Impact Assessment shall
analyze the following, if applicable to the site and project:
(A) Identify the aquatic zoning designations in which the use or activity will
occur, and if applicable, adjacent zones where impacts to estuarine and
coastal shoreland resources will occur.
(B) Identify the purposes of each zone.
(C) Aquatic and Shoreland life forms and habitat, including impacts to:
i. habitat type and use (e.g. rearing, spawning, feeding/resting area,
migration routes, flyways)
ii. species present,
iii. seasonal abundance,
iv. sediment type and characteristics,
v. vegetation
(D) Water quality, including:
i. increases in sedimentation and turbidity,
ii. decreases in dissolved oxygen concentration,
iii. changes in biological and chemical oxygen demand,
iv. contaminated sediments,

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-3 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
v. alteration of salinity regime,
vi. disruption of naturally occurring water temperatures,
vii. changes due to reduction, diversion or impoundment of water
(E) Hydraulic characteristics, including:
i. changes in water circulation patterns,
ii. shoaling patterns,
iii. potential of erosion or accretion in adjacent areas,
iv. changes in the floodplain,
v. decreases in flushing capacity or decreases in rate of water flow
from reduction or diversion or impoundment of water sources
(F) Air quality, including:
i. quantities of emissions of particulates,
ii. expected inorganic and organic airborne pollutants
(G) The impact of the proposed project on navigation and public access to
shoreline and aquatic areas.
(H) Demonstration of need (i.e., a substantial public benefit and demonstration
that the alteration will not interfere with public trust rights
(I) Demonstration that non-water dependent uses will not preempt existing or
future water-dependent uses in the area.
(J) Forecasted climate change impacts on the resources described in this
section.
(K) A description of how the project’s impacts on the resources will interact
with forecasted climate change impacts.
(L) A description of whether or how the project will enhance or limit
opportunities for the resources to migrate or adapt to forecasted climate
change impacts.
(M) Cumulative impact of the proposed development, on estuarine resources
identified in the impact assessment.
(N) Methods to minimize or eliminate preventable adverse impacts of the
proposed alteration, based on items (A) through (L) above. Determination
of need for mitigation and any mitigation proposed.
(O) Impact Assessment Findings. Resulting from the analysis of the
information presented in the Impact Assessment, one of the following
findings shall be concluded:
i. The proposed uses and activities comply with all Comprehensive
Plan policies and standards and will not degrade or reduce
estuarine resources.
ii. The proposed uses and activities do not comply with specific
Comprehensive Plan policies and standards. Estuarine resources
will be degraded or diminished by the proposed development
iii. Available information is insufficient to predicate and evaluate
potential impacts. More information is needed before the project
can be approved.

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-4 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
Section 6.2020. Resource Capability Determination [ORD. 25-08]
1) Purpose:
(A) Certain uses and activities in Natural and Conservation Aquatic zones are
allowed only if determined to meet the resource capabilities of the area
and if determined to be consistent with the purpose of the zone.
(B) Uses and activities in the Aquatic Development zone are allowed only if
determined to be consistent with the purpose of the zone.
LAWDUC Article 4 identifies which uses and activities require a Resource
Capability Determination in each of the estuary aquatic zones.
2) Definition of Resource Capability. Resource capability is defined as the degree to
which the natural resource can be physically, chemically, or biologically altered,
or otherwise assimilate an external use and still function to achieve the purpose
of the zone in which it is located.
3) The applicant shall make resource capability determinations and the permit
decision-maker shall also make findings that the requirements of this section are
satisfied.
4) A completed Resource Capability Determination shall include the following
elements:
(A) A complete Impact Assessment
(B) A conclusion, based on the impact assessment, of the use or activity’s
consistency with the purpose of the affected zone. The conclusion must
be one of the following three conditions:
i. The proposal is conditionally consistent with the purpose of the
affected zone; or
ii. The proposal is conditionally consistent with the purpose of the
affected zone; or
iii. The proposal is inconsistent with the purpose of the affected zone.
(C) A determination of whether the use or activity is consistent with the
resource capabilities of the affected zone. A use or activity is consistent
with the resource capabilities of the area when either:
i. Impacts on estuarine resources are not significant; or
ii. Resources of the area will be able to assimilate the use and activity
and their impacts and continue to function in a manner which:
a. In Aquatic Natural designations, protects significant fish and
wildlife habitats, natural biological productivity, and values
for scientific research and education and the capacity of
these resources and values to adapt to forecasted climate
change impacts; or
b. In the Aquatic Development Zone: this determination is not
required.

5) Resource Capability Administrative Provisions. When a conditional use requires
a Resource Capability Determination, the following agencies will be notified:
(A) Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife,

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-5 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
(B) Oregon Department of State Lands,
(C) Oregon Department of Land Conservation and Development,
(D) U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service,
(E) National Marine Fisheries Service,
(F) Environmental Protection Agency,
(G) U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
Section 6.2030. Revocation of Permits [ORD. 25-08]
1) Any conditions placed upon a development permit by this ordinance, the
Planning Director, the Hearings Officer, the Planning Commission and/or the
Board of Commissioners shall be strictly followed. In the event that the permit
holder, or assignee, fails to comply with any condition the underlying
development permit may be revoked or modified as set forth below.
2) When the Community Development Director determines that one or more
conditions have not been met the Director shall send written notice to the permit
holder, or assignee, by regular mail. The notice shall identify the conditions that
have not been met and shall provide 14 days to remedy the deficiency. The 14-
day period shall begin from the date that the notice is issued.
3) If the permit holder, or assignee, fails to remedy the deficiency within the time
period set by Section 6.2030(2), the Community Development Director shall
provide written notice to the permit holder that the development permit will be
revoked. The notice shall provide the opportunity for the permittee to request, in
writing, a hearing before the Hearings Officer in order to show cause why the
permit should not be revoked. The request for a hearing must be filed within 14
days of the date of the notice of intent to revoke. Appeals to the Hearings Office
shall be handled as a Type III procedure.
4) Hearings Officer Decision. The Hearings Officer may:
(A) uphold the permit if all conditions have been met or no longer need to be
met;
(B) modify or add conditions to the permit; or
(C) revoke the permit.
5) Should a permittee fail to file a timely request for hearing, then the Community
Development Director shall send written notice advising that the development
permit has been revoked and that all activity and use must immediately cease. In
order to continue the use or activity, the permittee shall be required to submit a
new application and fee for review and approval.
6) The provisions of Section 6.2030 shall apply to all development permits issued
prior to the date of its enactment, as well as all development permits issued
thereafter.

SECTION 6.2040. ECOLA CREEK AND NECANICUM ESTUARINE STANDARDS
[ORD. 25-08]
1) The following uses and activities within the Ecola Creek and Necanicum River
Estuaries are subject to the specific standards listed below.

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-6 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
Section 6.2050. Aquaculture [ORD. 25-08]
1) Structures and activities associated with an aquaculture operation shall not
interfere with navigation.
2) Water diversion or other shoreline structures shall not interfere with public
shoreline access. Public access to the facility shall be designed to address safety
and security considerations.
3) Water diversion structures or man-made spawning channels shall maintain
minimum required stream flows for aquatic life in the adjacent stream.
4) The applicant shall provide documentation that the potential impacts of
introducing a new fish or shellfish species (or race within a species) will be
monitored and evaluated in order to protect existing aquatic life in the stream and
estuary.
5) Water discharged from the facility shall meet all federal and state water quality
standards, and any conditions attached to a waste discharge permit.
6) Fill in support of aquaculture may be permitted if:
(A) An estuarine location is required;
(B) A public need is demonstrated;
(C) No alternative upland locations exist for the portion of the use requiring fill’
and
(D) Adverse impacts are minimized as much as feasible.
Section 6.2060. Boat Ramp [ORD. 25-08]
1) Boat ramps requiring fill or dredging shall be evaluated under fill or dredging
requirements.
2) All state and federal permits shall be obtained and copies provided to the
Community Development Department before any work begins on the project.
3) Boat ramps shall not be located in marsh areas or tideflats.
Section 6.2070. Dock/Moorage [ORD. 25-08]
1) Community docks or moorages shall be given higher priority than private
individual docks or moorages.
2) When a private individual dock is proposed, the applicant must provide evidence
that alternative moorage sites, such as nearby marinas, community docks,
dryland storage or mooring buoys are not available, are impracticable or will not
satisfy the need.
3) Evidence shall be provided by the applicant that the size of the dock or moorage
is the minimum necessary to fulfill the purpose.
4) Covered or enclosed moorage shall not be allowed except in connection with a
commercial or industrial use where such shelter is necessary for repair and
maintenance of vessels and associated equipment, such as fishing nets, etc.
5) Open pile piers or secured floats shall be used for dock construction.
6) Placement of fill in aquatic areas to create a dock or moorage are not permitted.
7) Piers and floats shall only extend beyond the dock or moorage to the minimum
distance needed to assist navigational access. Conflicts with other water surface

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-7 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
uses such as fishing or recreational boating shall be minimized.
8) Floats in tidally-influenced areas shall be located such that they do not rest on
the bottom at low water.
Section 6.2080. Fill [ORD. 25-08]
1) Fill shall be permitted for active restoration, aquaculture, placement of
communications facilities, water dependent recreation facilities such as marinas,
and flood control and erosion control structures.
2) Fill shall be limited to the minimum quantity necessary to accomplish the
proposed use.
3) Fill shall be permitted only when the Impact Assessment required by 6.2011,
verifies that negative impacts on the following will be avoided, minimized, and/or
mitigated:
(A) Navigation
(B) Productive estuarine habitat
(C) Water circulation and sedimentation patterns
(D) Water quality
(E) Recreation activities
4) If a proposed use or activity would reduce or eliminate existing public access, the
applicant shall provide an equivalent replacement public access.
5) Aquatic areas shall not be used for sanitary landfills or the disposal of solid
waste.
6) Fill in intertidal or tidal marsh areas shall not be permitted.
7) Fill in Shorelands and Aquatic areas designated Conservation shall only be
allowed if consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the purpose of
the Conservation designation.
8) Fill is not permitted in areas designated Natural.
9) Fill shall only be permitted in areas where alteration has already occurred,
including, but not limited to, the riprap bank of the Necanicum River in downtown
Seaside.
10) Piling shall be used instead of fill, unless an engineering feasibility study
demonstrates that the use of fill is the only option.
Section 6.2090. Land Transportation Facilities [ORD. 25-08]
1) Land transportation facilities shall not be located in wetlands or aquatic areas
except where bridge crossings on pilings are needed.
2) Highways, railroads and bridges shall be designed and located to take advantage
of the natural topography to minimize disruption of and impacts to the shoreline
area. Causeways across aquatic areas shall not be permitted.
3) The applicant shall provide an evaluation documenting the impacts to land use
patterns and physical/visual access to the estuary caused by the proposed rail or
highway facilities.
4) Culverts shall be permitted only where bridges are not feasible, and shall be
large enough to protect water quality, salinity regime and wildlife habitat.

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-8 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
Section 6.2100. Maintenance Dredging [ORD. 25-08]
1) Dredging shall not occur in marshes, tide flats or other productive subtidal areas
as determined by the state and federal permit process.
2) Dredging shall be permitted in areas of the Necanicum River with lower
productivity and only to the extent necessary to achieve minor navigational
improvement.
3) Dredging for uses and activities other than aquaculture, moorage, a small marina
or restoration shall be limited to the main channel of the Necanicum River.
Section 6.2110. Marinas [ORD. 25-08]
1) Marina facilities shall be located only in areas of existing shoreline development
on the Necanicum Rover where its location would not eliminate marsh areas, and
where water depths are sufficient so that new dredging is not required.
2) The applicant shall provide evidence to show that existing marina facilities are
inadequate to meet the demand and that existing facilities cannot be expanded.
3) Marina facilities shall be designed and constructed to minimize negative impacts
on navigation, water quality, sedimentation rates and patterns, fish rearing or
migration routes, important sediment-dwelling organisms, birds and other wildlife,
tidal marshes and other important vegetative habitat. An impact assessment shall
be required.
4) Flushing and water circulation adequate to maintain ambient water quality shall
be provided by design or artificial means. A calculated flushing time shall be
presented as evidence that this standard has been met.
5) The size of the proposed facility, including that portion occupying the water
surface, shall be the minimum required to meet the need. In this regard, new
facilities shall make maximum use of dry boat storage on existing uplands.
6) Means for preventing contaminants from entering the water shall be provided.
Equipment shall be available on-site for clean-up of accidental spills of
contaminants. Sewage, storm drainage and fish waste shall not be discharged
directly into the water.
7) Marina facilities shall provide public access and recreational opportunities such
as walkways, seating, and fishing areas. Public access and recreational
opportunities shall be appropriately designed to address safety and security
considerations.
8) Covered or enclosed water moorage shall only be allowed in conjunction with
maintenance, repair or construction activities.
9) Fill in support of a marina may be permitted if:
(A) An estuarine location is required;
(B) A public need is demonstrated;
(C) No alternative upland locations exist for the portion of the use requiring fill;
and
(D) The use is consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the
purposes of the management unit

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-9 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
Section 6.2120. Piling [ORD. 25-08]
1) The applicant shall demonstrate that any adverse impacts on navigation,
estuarine habitat and processes, water circulation and sedimentation patterns,
water quality and recreation activities caused by the use of pilings have been or
will be avoided, minimized and/or mitigated.
2) Copies of all required state and federal permits are provided to the Community
Development Department before installation of the pilings begins.
3) The number of pilings shall be the minimum necessary to accomplish the
proposed use.
Section 6.2125. Public Access [ORD. 25-08]
1) Standards in this subsection apply to all uses and activities in Columbia River
Estuary shoreland and aquatic areas which directly or indirectly affect public
access. “Public access” is used broadly here to include direct physical access to
estuary aquatic areas (i.e., boat ramps), aesthetic access (i.e., viewing
opportunities), and other facilities that provide some degree of public access to
shorelands and aquatic areas.
2) Projects to improve public access shall be designed to ensure that adjacent
privately owned shoreland is protected from public encroachment or trespass.
3) Clatsop County shall review proposals for the sale, exchange or transfer of
publicly-owned lands that provide public access to estuarine waters using the
provisions of ORS 271.300-271.360.
4) Public access improvements shall minimize negative impacts to coastal
shoreland cultural and natural resources. The County shall consult with
appropriate state or federal agencies to implement this standard.
5) New public developments shall provide public access to coastal shorelands
unless public access is unsafe or would damage cultural or natural resources.
Section 6.2130. Restoration/Resource Enhancement – Active [ORD. 25-08]
1) An application for active restoration/resource enhancement should be
accompanied by an explanation of the purpose of the project and the resource(s)
to be restored or enhanced. The project shall be allowed only if consistent with
the resource capabilities and purpose of the comprehensive plan designation of
the area and the other adjacent uses.
2) Fill in support of active restoration may be permitted if a public need is
demonstrated.
Section 6.2140. Shoreline Stabilization [ORD. 25-08]
1) General Standards. All shoreline stabilization with the Necanicum River Estuary
shall comply with the general standards below.
(A) Riprap may be permitted for protection of uses existing as of October 7,
1977, unique natural resources, historical and archaeological values; and
public facilities subject to the standards in the section.
(B) Preferred Methods. Proper management of existing stream side

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-10 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
vegetation is the preferred method of stabilization followed by planting of
vegetation. Where vegetative protection is inappropriate due to erosion
rates, the use of the site or other factors, structural means such as riprap
may be used as a last resort.
(C) Placement of stabilization materials shall be reviewed based upon the
following:
i. effects on birds and wildlife habitat,
ii. uses of lands and waters adjacent to the bank,
iii. impacts to fishing areas,
iv. impacts to aquatic habitat,
v. relative effectiveness of the various structures,
vi. engineering feasibility,
vii. cost, and
viii. erosion, flooding and sedimentation of adjacent areas.
(D) Emergency repairs to shoreline stabilization facilities is permitted, subject
to the standards imposed by the Oregon Department of State Lands and
the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
(E) Applications for shoreline stabilization shall be based on a demonstration
of need, consistency with the intent of the comprehensive plan designation
of the site, and the resource capabilities of the area. The application shall
demonstrate how impacts shall be avoided, minimized and/or mitigated.
2) Standards for Revegetation and Vegetation Management. In addition to the
general standards in Section 6.2140(1), projects proposing revegetation and/or
vegetation management activities shall comply with the following standards:
(A) Plant species shall be selected to ensure suitable stabilization and habitat
for wildlife. The applicant shall provide justification that the revegetation
or vegetation management is required when the slope of the bank is
greater than 2:1 (horizontal to vertical). Trees, shrubs and grasses native
to the area are preferred.
(B) The area to be revegetated should be protected from livestock grazing or
other activities that would hinder plant growth.
3) Standards for Riprap. In addition to the general standards in Section 6.2140(1),
projects proposing the use of riprap shall comply with the following standards:
(A) Engineering and construction best management practices shall be used in
the placement of riprap, with regard to slope, size, composition and quality
of material, excavation of the toe trench, placement of gravel fill blanket
and operation of equipment in the water. Approved state or federal permits
shall serve of evidence that this standard has been met.
(B) Riprapped banks should be vegetated, when feasible, to create or
enhance bird and wildlife habitat.
(C) Shoreline protection measures shall not restrict existing public access to
public shorelines.
(D) Shoreline protection measures shall be designed to minimize their impacts
on the aesthetic qualities of the shoreline.

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-11 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
(E) Bankline protection shall not be used to increase land surface area.
Where severe erosion has occurred, fill may be used to obtain the desired
bank slope and restore the previous bankline. Any extension of the
bankline into traditional aquatic areas shall be subject to the standards for
fill. Disruption of tidal marsh, tidal flat and productive subtidal areas shall
not be permitted.
(F) Construction of shoreline protection measures shall be coordinated with
state and federal agencies and local interests to minimize the impacts on
aquatic resources and habitats. Relevant state and federal water quality
standards shall be met.
(G) Stream channelization should be avoided.
(H) Use of fill material for shoreline protection shall be permitted for
maintenance of man-made protective structures existing as of October 7,
1977.
(I) Flood and erosion control structures if:
i. Required to protect a water-dependent use allowed in subsection
(9)(B)-(D);
ii. Land use management practices and non-structural solutions are
inadequate to protect the use;
iii. There are no alternative upland locations for the portion of the use
being protected;
iv. An estuarine location is required by the use;
v. A public need is demonstrated; and
vi. Adverse impacts, including impacts to water currents and erosion
and accretion patterns, are avoided, minimized, and/or mitigated.
Section 6.2150. Utilities [ORD. 25-08]
1) Overhead transmission lines not interfere with migratory bird flyways and
associated habitat or the significant habitat of residential waterfowl, birds of prey
and other birds. In cases of serious conflict, utility facilities should be located
underground.
2) Applicants for utility facilities, including cable crossings, shall provide evidence as
to why an aquatic site is needed, the alternative locations considered, and the
relative impacts of each. Crossings shall avoid disrupting marsh areas, unless an
engineering feasibility study demonstrates that the impact cannot be avoided.
3) Utility facilities shall not be located on new land created by fill unless the utility is
part of an otherwise approved project and an engineering feasibility study
demonstrates that no other alternative exists.
4) Above ground utility facilities shall be designed to optimize visual and other
aesthetic impacts.
5) Effluents from point-source discharges shall meet all applicable state and federal
water and air quality standards. Monitoring shall be carried out to monitor the on-
going impacts on the estuarine environment.
6) After vegetative installation or maintenance is completed, banks shall be

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-12 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
replanted with native species or otherwise protected against erosion. The pre-
project bankline shall be maintained as closely as possible.
7) Storm water shall be directed into existing natural drainages when possible, and
shall be dispersed to several locations to minimize the impact on the estuary.
When adjacent to salt marshes and/or areas designated Natural in the
comprehensive plan, additional precautions shall be taken to ensure that
contamination from oil, sediment or other pollutants does not occur. This
standard may be met through the use of holding ponds, weirs, dry wells, or other
means.

SECTION 6.3000. COLUMBIA RIVER ESTUARY IMPACT ASSESSMENT AND
RESOURCE CAPABILITY DETERMINATION
Section 6.3010. Impact Assessment
The purpose of this section is to provide an assessment process for development
alterations which could potentially alter the estuarine ecosystem. Oregon Statewide
Planning Goal 16, Estuarine Resources, requires that actions which would potentially
alter the Columbia River estuarine ecosystem be preceded by an assessment of
potential impacts. The Impact Assessment need not be lengthy and complex, but it
should enable reviewers to gain a clear understanding of the impacts expected.
Section 6.3020. Impact Assessment Requirements
The following uses and activities, in addition to those so indicated in the aquatic zones,
all require an Impact Assessment at the time a permit is reviewed:
1) Dredging
2) Aquatic area fill
3) In-water structures
4) Riprap
5) New in-water log storage areas
6) Application of pesticides and herbicides
7) Water intake or withdrawal
8) Effluent discharges
9) In-water dredged material disposal
10) Beach nourishment
11) Other uses or activities which could affect estuarine physical or biological
resources
12) Uses or activities that require a Resource Capability Determination
13) Expanded flowlane/thalweg disposal for which a Goal 16 exception has been
approved. [ORD. 24-18]
14) Shallow water placement of dredged material at sites designated in the
comprehensive plan. [ORD. 25-05]
15) Transfer sites for temporary storage of dredged material at sites designated in
the comprehensive plan. [ORD. 25-05]
16) Confined aquatic placement of dredged material at sites designated in the
comprehensive plan. [ORD. 25-05]

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-13 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
17) Shoreline placement of dredged material at sites designated in the
comprehensive plan. [ORD. 25-05]

SECTION 6.4000. COLUMBIA RIVER ESTUARY SHORELAND AND AQUATIC
STANDARDS [ORD. 25-08]
Section 6.4010. Purpose [ORD. 25-08]
1) Columbia River Estuary shoreland and aquatic area standards are requirements
which apply to development uses and activities proposed in one or more of the
following management designations:
(A) Marine Industrial Shorelands Zone (MI);
(B) Conservation Shorelands Zone (CS);
(C) Natural Shorelands Zone (NS);
(D) Aquatic Development Zone (AD);
(E) Aquatic Conservation One Zone (AC-1);
(F) Aquatic Conservation Two Zone (AC-2);
(G) Aquatic Natural Zone (AN);
(H) All areas included in the Shorelands Overlay District (/SO).
These standards are intended to protect the unique economic, social, and
environmental values of the Columbia River Estuary.
Section 6.4020. General Standard [ORD. 25-08]
Proposed uses and activities in the Columbia River Estuary shoreland and aquatic
areas shall only be approved when it is determined that such uses or activities are
consistent with the purposes of the Columbia River Estuary management areas in which
they are proposed and satisfy all applicable Comprehensive Plan policies and Columbia
River Estuary Shoreland and Aquatic Activity and Use Standards. In addition, some
uses and activities in the Columbia River Estuary which could potentially alter the
estuarine ecosystem are also subject to an Impact Assessment and Resource
Capability Determination, as specified in Section 6.2000.
Section 6.4030. General Development Standards [ORD. 25-08]
1) The standards in this subsection apply to all development activities and uses in
Columbia River Estuary shoreland and aquatic areas, as specified below:
(A) Non-water-dependent uses and activities shall not prohibit or create
conflicts with existing, proposed or potential water-dependent uses or
activities at adjacent sites zoned Marine Industrial.
(B) Uses and activities will be designed and located to minimize or eliminate
impacts to conflicts with adjacent uses (particularly adjacent historic or
cultural resources). Measures such as landscaping, fencing, and/or other
buffering techniques shall be used to protect the character or historic
integrity of adjacent uses.
(C) Waterfront Public Access shall be provided in compliance with the
following:
i. Waterfront access for the public, such as walkways, trails,

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-14 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
waterfront seating or landscaped areas, shall be designed to
address safety and security considerations.
ii. Industrial and port facilities should designate public viewing points,
for viewing waterfront and/or port operations in areas which would
not interfere with operations, security, or the safety of the public or
employees.
iii. New dredging, filling or alteration of estuarine resources shall not
be used to provide public access.
(D) Joint use of parking, moorage and other commercial support facilities is
encouraged where feasible and where consistent with local ordinance
requirements.
(E) Off-street parking may be located over an aquatic area only if the following
conditions are met:
i. Parking will be on an existing pile-supported structure; and
ii. Suitable shoreland areas are not available; and
iii. The amount of aquatic area committed to parking is the minimum
required to provide required parking and drive aisles; and
iv. The aquatic area is zoned Aquatic Development; and
v. The parking area complies with the standards in Section 3.0050.
(F) Maintenance, installation or replacement of riparian vegetation may be
required to enhance visual attractiveness or assist in bank stabilization.
(G) Dredging and filling and uses that will require dredging or filling in
estuarine aquatic areas and significant Goal 17 wetlands may only be
permitted if the following standards i through vi are met. Other uses which
could alter the estuarine ecosystem may only be permitted if the following
standards i through vi are met.
i. The proposed use is required for navigation or other water-
dependent use requiring an estuarine location, or if specifically
allowed in the applicable aquatic zone; and
ii. A need (i.e., a public benefit) is demonstrated; and
iii. The proposed use does not interfere with public trust rights; and
iv. Alternative upland locations do not exist; and
v. Adverse impacts, are avoided, minimized or mitigated; and
vi. Any reduction in estuarine resources’ capacity to adapt to climate
change impacts is avoided, minimized or mitigated.
Section 6.4040. Agriculture and Forestry [ORD. 25-08]
1) Standards in this subsection are applicable to agricultural and forestry activities
on Columbia River Estuary shorelands. Activities outside of the coastal
shorelands boundary are not covered by this subsection. Certain activities
associated with agriculture and forestry (i.e. dike maintenance and shipping
facilities for agricultural and forest products, are covered under different
subsections).
2) Tillage and drainage practices should minimize sedimentation and control

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-15 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
surface water runoff of animal wastes and excess fertilizers, herbicides and
pesticides. Agriculture chemicals shall be applied to minimize the amount that is
lost to the aquatic environment.
3) A 50-foot buffer strip of permanent vegetation shall be maintained between
cultivated or pasture areas and an undiked body of water, to filter surface runoff
and reduce sedimentation.
4) Feed lots or other confinement lots for livestock shall be:
(A) Located at least 100 feet from streams or waterbodies;
(B) Away from hillsides leading directly to streams;
(C) Outside the 100-year floodplain;
(D) Designed to control runoff through the use of diversion structures, settling
ponds or other land management practices.
4) Forest practices and forest road building will comply with rules established under
the Oregon Forest Practices Act, administered by the Oregon Department of
Forestry.
5) In areas designated Development or identified for water-dependent uses,
agricultural uses shall be undeveloped and low intensity to reserve these areas
for intensive residential, commercial or industrial use, as appropriate.
6) On lands zoned Conservation Shorelands, agriculture uses shall be low intensity
and consistent with maintenance of the forest resource and recreational values of
these lands.
Section 6.4050. Airports [ORD. 25-08]
To protect air safety and wildlife habitat, airports and associated facilities, including
terminal stations for aircraft, passenger and cargo operations, runways, towers, and
other structures and systems shall be located away from migratory bird flyways and
habitat used by resident waterfowl and other birds.
Section 6.4060. Aquaculture and Fisheries [ORD. 25-08]
The standards in this subsection apply to all projects that could affect commercial or
recreational fisheries or aquaculture in the Columbia River Estuary. This section is also
applicable to the development of aquaculture facilities and to fisheries enhancement
projects.
1) Water diversion structures or man-made spawning channels shall maintain
minimum stream flows for aquatic life in affected streams.
2) Water discharged from aquaculture or hatchery facilities shall comply with state
and federal water quality standards and any waste discharge permit conditions.
3) Aquaculture facilities shall be located far enough from sanitary sewer outfalls to
avoid potential health hazards.
4) In-water construction activity in aquatic areas shall follow the recommendations
of state and federal fisheries agencies with respect to project timing to avoid
unnecessary impacts on migratory fish.
5) Commercial fish drifts shall be protected from conflicting in-water activity,
including dredging, in-water dredged material disposal, and aquatic area mining

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-16 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
and mineral extraction.
6) Prior to approval of in-water activities with the potential for affecting commercial
fishing activities, the project sponsor shall notify the Oregon and Washington
Department of Fish and Wildlife programs for Columbia River commercial
fisheries.
Section 6.4070. Commercial, Industrial and Residential Development [ORD. 25-02]
[ORD. 25-08]
1) The standards in this subsection are applicable to construction or expansion of
residential, commercial or industrial facilities in shoreland and aquatic areas of
the Columbia River Estuary. Within the context of this section:
(A) Residential uses include single-unit, duplex/triplex/quadplex dwellings,
cottage clusters, manufactured dwellings, and floating residences (subject
to an exception to Oregon Statewide Planning Goal 16). Duck shacks,
recreational vehicles, hotels, motels and bed and breakfast facilities are
not considered residential structures for purposes of this section.
(B) Commercial structures and uses include all retail or wholesale storage,
service or sales facilities and uses, whether water- dependent, water-
related, or non-dependent, non-related.
(C) Industrial uses and activities include facilities for fabrication, assembly,
and processing, whether water-dependent, water-related, or non-
dependent, non-related.
2) Sign placement shall not block views of water areas. Signs shall be placed on
existing buildings whenever feasible. Off-premises outdoor advertising shall not
be allowed in aquatic areas.
3) Uses conducted in floating structures shall be located in areas protected from
currents and wave action. The floats shall not rest on the bottom during low tidal
cycles or low-flow periods.
4) Where groundwater is or will be used as a water supply, the groundwater table
shall not be lowered by drainage facilities, or be affected by saltwater intrusion
due to groundwater mining.
5) Fill in estuarine aquatic areas or in significant non-tidal wetlands in shoreland
areas shall not be permitted for residential uses.
6) Commercial or industrial developments with ship receiving facilities shall provide
facilities for disposing of vessel solid wastes. Disposal of fish wastes associated
with commercial or industrial development, shall comply with state and federal
regulations.
Section 6.4080. Estuarine Construction [ORD. 25-08]
1) The standards in this subsection apply to over-the-water and in-water structures
such as docks, bulkheads, moorages, piling and dolphin installation, shoreline
stabilization, navigational structures, boat ramps, boat houses, jetties, pile dikes,
breakwaters and other structures involving installation of piling or placement of
riprap in Columbia River Estuary aquatic areas. This subsection not apply to

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-17 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
structures located entirely on shorelands or uplands, but does apply to
structures, such as boat ramps, that are in both aquatic and shoreland
designations. Standards in this subsection also apply to excavation for creation
of new water surface area.
2) When land use management practices and vegetative shoreline stabilization are
shown to be infeasible (in terms of cost, effectiveness or other factors), structural
means may be approved subject to applicable policies, standards and
comprehensive plan and zoning restrictions.
3) Where structural shoreline stabilization is shown to be necessary because
vegetative shoreline stabilization is not practicable, the choice for structural
stabilization methods shall be made on a case by case basis. Factors to be
considered when determining the appropriate structural method include, but are
not limited to:
(A) Hydraulic features;
(B) Shoreland habitat;
(C) Adjacent land and water uses;
(D) Aquatic habitat;
(E) Water quality;
(F) Engineering feasibility;
(G) Navigation;
(H) Impacts on public shoreline access.
3) Jetties, groins and breakwaters shall be constructed of clean, erosion-resistant
materials from upland sources. In-stream gravels shall not be used, unless part
of an approved mining project. Material size shall be appropriate for predicted
wave, tide and current conditions.
4) Where a jetty, groin, breakwater or other in-water structure is proposed for
erosion or flood control, the applicant shall demonstrate that non-structural
solutions, such as land use management practices, or other structural solutions,
such as riprap, will not adequately address the problem.
7) Proposals for bulkheads may be approved only if it is demonstrated that sloped
riprap will not complete the project's objectives.
8) Proposals for new bulkheads or for new riprap bankline slopes steeper than 1.5
to 1 (horizontal to vertical) must demonstrate that adequate shallow areas will be
available for juvenile fish shelter, or that the area is not typically used for juvenile
fish shelter.
9) Plant species utilized for vegetative stabilization shall be selected based on
potential sediment containment and fish and wildlife habitat values. Trees, shrubs
and grasses native to the region should be considered for vegetative
stabilization; however, plant species and vegetation stabilization techniques
approved by the Soil Conservation Service, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
and other participating federal and state resource agencies are also appropriate.
Stabilization of dike slopes must not include vegetation (particularly trees) which
jeopardize the dike.
10) Riprap bank protection must be appropriately designed with respect to slope,

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-18 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
rock size, placement, underlying material and expected hydraulic conditions.
Projects designed or signed and sealed by a licensed engineer shall meet this
requirement.
11) New shoreline stabilization projects shall not restrict existing public access to
public shorelines.
12) Shoreline stabilization shall not be used to increase land surface area. Where a
breach has occurred, fill may be used to restore the previous bankline, provided
the corrective action is initiated within one year of the date of the breach. Any
other extension of the bankline into aquatic areas shall be subject to the policies
and standards for fill.
13) Structural shoreline stabilization measures shall be coordinated with and, if
applicable, permitted by, state and federal agencies to minimize adverse effects
on aquatic and shoreland resources and habitats.
14) Bulkheads installed as a shoreland stabilization and protective measure shall be
designed and constructed to minimize impacts (i.e. erosion, shoaling, reflection
of wave energy or interferences with sediment transport in adjacent shoreline
areas) resulting from their placement.
15) Emergency maintenance, for the purpose of making repairs or for the purpose of
preventing irreparable harm, injury or damage to persons, property or shoreline
stabilization facilities is permitted, notwithstanding the other requirements in
these standards. Emergency maintenance activities shall be subject to
regulations imposed by the Corps of Engineers and the Department of State
Lands.
16) Revegetated shoreline areas shall be protected from excessive livestock grazing
or other activities that would prevent development of stabilizing plant cover.
17) The size and shape of a dock or pier shall be the minimum required for the
intended use.
18) Proposals for new docks and piers may be approved only after consideration of
alternatives such as mooring buoys, dryland storage, and boat ramps.
19) Individual single-user docks and piers are discouraged in favor of community
moorage facilities common to several users and interests.
20) Excavation of shorelands to create new estuarine aquatic surface area shall
comply with the following provisions:
(A) The new aquatic area shall be connected to adjacent water areas as the
excavation is completed.
(B) Excavation shall not result in channelization of the waterway.
21) Sediments and materials removed by the excavation to create new estuarine
water surface area shall be deposited on land in an appropriate manner.
22) Water quality degradation due to excavation to create new estuarine water
surface area shall be avoided, minimized, or mitigated. Adverse effects on water
circulation and exchange, increase in erosion and shoaling conditions, and
introduction of contaminants to adjacent aquatic areas shall be avoided,
minimized or mitigated.

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-19 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
Section 6.4090. Deep-Water Navigation, Port and Industrial Development [ORD.
25-08]
1) The standards in this subsection apply to port and industrial development
occurring in and over Columbia River estuarine waters, and on adjacent
shorelands. This section also applies to navigation projects related to deep-draft
maritime activities, such as channel, anchorage and turning basin development
or expansion.
2) New or expanded shoreland and aquatic area facilities for the storage or
transmission of petroleum products must have on-site equipment for the
containment of oil spills. A contingency plan for containment and clean-up of oil
spills shall be provided with the permit application.
5) New or expanded ports or ship receiving facilities shall provide facilities for
collecting, handling and disposing of vessel wastes.
6) Port or industrial development involving the following activities shall be subject to
an impact assessment.
(A) Dredging.
(B) Aquatic area fill.
(C) In-water structures.
(D) Structural shoreline stabilization.
(E) Water in-take pipes.
(F) Effluent discharge.
(G) In-water dredged material disposal.
(H) Beach nourishment.
(I) Other activity which could adversely affect estuarine resources.
Section 6.4100. Land Transportation Systems [ORD. 25-08]
1) Standards in this subsection are applicable to the maintenance and construction
of railroads, roads and bridges in Columbia River Estuary shoreland and aquatic
areas. Public, as well as private facilities are covered under this section. Forest
roads, constructed in compliance with the standards contained in the Forest
Practices Act, are excluded.
2) New or relocated land transportation routes shall be designed and sited to:
(A) Enhance or increase access to areas in the Marine Industrial zone when
possible; and
(B) Direct urban expansion toward areas identified as being suitable for
development, consistent with Goal 14; and
(C) Take maximum advantage of the natural topography and cause minimum
shoreline disruption; and
(D) Preserve or improve public estuary access where existing or potential
access sites are identified; and
(E) Avoid isolating high-intensity water-dependent waterfront use areas from
water access.
3) Maintenance and repair of roads and railroads and maintenance, repair and
replacement of bridges shall be permitted regardless of the plan designation

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-20 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
through which the road or railroad passes, provided:
(A) The same alignment is maintained; and
(B) The same width is maintained, except that necessary enlargements to
meet current safety and engineering standards may be permitted; and
(C) The number of travel lanes is not increased.
4) Fill-supported causeways or bridge approach fills across significant non-tidal
wetlands in shoreland areas shall not be permitted; bridge abutments may,
however, be approved.
5) Removal of riparian vegetation along transportation rights-of-way may be
permitted to maintain clear vision.
Section 6.4120. Marinas [ORD. 25-08]
1) The standards in this subsection apply to development of new marinas and
improvements to existing marinas in aquatic areas of the Columbia River
Estuary. Also covered are adjacent shoreland support facilities that are in
conjunction with or accessory to the marina. These provisions apply to both
public and private marinas for either recreational, charter or commercial shallow
draft vessels.
2) New marinas may be approved only when existing marinas are inadequate with
respect to location, support services or size; or cannot expand to meet area
moorage needs.
3) New marinas shall be located in or adjacent to areas of extensive boat usage,
and in areas capable of providing necessary support services (including street
access, upland parking, water, electricity and waste disposal).
4) The feasibility of upland boat storage shall be evaluated concurrent with
proposals for new or expanded marina facilities.
6) New, expanded or renovated marinas shall be designed to assure adequate
water circulation and flushing.
7) New or expanded marinas shall provide facilities for collecting, handling and
disposing of waste from vessels.
8) Disposal of fish waste shall comply with federal and state regulations.
9) Covered moorages may be permitted in marinas subject to the following
requirements:
(A) Information is provided on existing water quality and habitat conditions in
the aquatic area proposed for the covered moorage; and
(B) Data on existing aquatic vegetation, and an analysis of the proposed
covered moorages' impact on aquatic vegetation are provided; and
(C) Information is provided on light penetration, both with and without the
proposed covered moorage; and
(D) No more than 20% of the marina's aquatic surface is occupied by the
covered moorage.
10) New or expanded marina fuel docks shall maintain on-site equipment for the
containment of spilled fuel. A contingency plan for containment and cleanup of
accidental spills shall be provided.

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-21 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
11) Floating docks in marinas shall be located such that they do not rest on the
bottom during low tides.
13) The size and shape of docks and piers in marinas shall be limited to that required
for the intended use.
14) Alternatives to new docks and piers, such as mooring buoys, dry land storage
and launching ramps, shall be considered before new docks are permitted in a
marina.
Section 6.4130. Mining and Mineral Extraction [ORD. 25-08]
1) Standards in this subsection are applicable to the extraction of sand, gravel,
petroleum products and other minerals from both submerged lands under
Columbia River Estuary aquatic areas and from shoreland areas. These
standards are also applicable to outer continental shelf mineral development
support facilities built in the estuary.
2) Aquatic area mining and mineral extraction shall only occur in aquatic areas
deeper than ten (10) feet below MLLW, where estuarine resource values are low,
and when no feasible upland sources exist.
3) Proposed mining and mineral extraction activities with potential impacts on
estuary shoreland and aquatic areas shall provide the local government with
copies of all required state and federal permits.
4) Applicants proposing estuarine shoreland or aquatic area mining or mineral
extraction shall demonstrate that the activity is sited, designed and operated to
minimize adverse impacts on the following:
(A) Significant fish and wildlife habitat; and
(B) Hydraulic characteristics; and
(C) Water quality.
5) Petroleum extraction and drilling operations shall not be allowed in estuarine
aquatic areas. Petroleum may, however, be extracted from beneath estuarine
aquatic areas using equipment located on shorelands or uplands. Petroleum
exploration activities, except for exploratory drilling, may be permitted in
estuarine aquatic areas and in estuarine shoreland areas.
6) Unless part of an approved fill project, spoils and other material removed from
aquatic areas shall be subject to the Dredging and Dredged Material Disposal
Standards in Section 6.4200.
Section 6.4140. Recreation and Tourism [ORD. 25-08]
1) Standards in this subsection are applicable to recreational and tourist-oriented
facilities in Columbia River Estuary shoreland and aquatic areas.
2) New or expanded recreation developments shall be designed to avoid, minimize
or mitigate adverse effects on surface and groundwater quality. Adverse effects
of storm run-off from parking lots shall be avoided, minimized, or mitigated.
3) New or expanded recreational developments shall be designed and located to
avoid, minimize or mitigate conflicts with and impacts to adjacent land uses.
4) Structures developed for use as a duck shack may be permitted subject to the

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-22 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
following requirements:
(A) It may be used to store recreational equipment for hunting waterfowl;
(B) A holding tank is provided so sewage is not disposed of directly into the
river;
(C) The duck shack will not exceed 500 square feet if constructed on a float,
or 750 square feet if constructed on a pier; and
(D) The duck shack shall not be occupied for more than fifteen (15) days of
any consecutive thirty (30) day period.
Section 6.4150. Restoration and Mitigation [ORD. 25-08]
1) Standards in this subsection are applicable to estuarine restoration and
mitigation projects in Columbia River Estuary aquatic areas and adjacent
shorelands. The Comprehensive Plan shall designate and protect specific sites
for mitigation which generally correspond to the types and quantify of aquatic
area proposed for dredging or filling.
2) Any fill activities in estuarine aquatic areas or dredging activities in intertidal and
shallow- to medium-depth subtidal areas shall be mitigated through project
design and/or compensatory mitigation (creation, restoration or enhancement of
another area) to ensure that the integrity of the estuary ecosystem is maintained.
3) Mitigation for fill in aquatic areas or dredging in intertidal and shallow- to medium-
depth subtidal areas shall be implemented through the following mitigation
actions:
(A) Project Design Mitigation Actions
i. Avoiding the impact altogether by not taking a certain action or
parts of an action;
ii. Minimizing impacts by limiting or reducing the scope of proposed
activities;
iii. Rectifying the impact by repairing, rehabilitating, or restoring the
affected environment, including removal of wetland fills or
rehabilitation of a resource use and/or extraction site when its
economic life is terminated;
iv. Reducing or eliminating the impact over time by preservation and
maintenance operations;
(B) Compensatory Mitigation Actions
i. Creation, restoration or enhancement of an estuarine area to
maintain the functional characteristics and processes of the
estuary, such as its natural biological productivity, habitats, and
species diversity, unique features and water quality.
4) Any combination of the above actions may be required to implement mitigation
requirements. The compensatory mitigation actions listed in part (B) shall only be
considered when, after consideration of impact avoidance, reduction or
rectification, there are still unavoidable impacts.

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-23 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
5) Clatsop County will rely on the Department of State Lands to administer the
provisions of OAR 141-085-0689 through OAR 141-085-0710 ORS requiring the
mitigation of adverse impacts of filling in intertidal area, tidal marsh areas, and
non-tidal wetlands.
6) Section 5.4300. Mitigation Site Overlay District (MIT) establishes the inventory of
mitigation sites, and the standards and procedures for reviewing use and
development proposals at mitigation sites and adding and removing mitigation
sites.
Section 6.4160. Solid Waste Disposal [ORD. 25-08]
1) The following standards apply to solid waste disposal in the Columbia River
Estuary shoreland areas:
(A) Disposal shall comply with state and federal waste disposal requirements.
(B) Solid waste material shall not be deposited in aquatic areas.
Section 6.4170. Utility [ORD. 25-08]
1) Standards in this subsection are applicable to utility structures and uses in the
Columbia River Estuary aquatic and shorelands areas.
2) Routes for major overhead electrical and communication transmission lines shall
be chosen to minimize interference with migratory bird flyways and significant
habitat of waterfowl, birds of prey and other birds.
3) Utilities shall not be located on new land unless part of an otherwise approved
development project and no other alternative is feasible.
4) Above-ground utilities shall be designed to minimize visual and other aesthetic
impacts.
5) Interference with public uses shall be minimized and public access to the estuary
shall be preserved.
6) After installation or maintenance of existing utility structures is completed,
disturbed stream banks and aquatic and riparian vegetation shall be stabilized
and restored.
Section 6.4180. Bankline and Streambed Alteration [ORD. 25-08]
1) Standards in this subsection are applicable to the alteration of a stream bank or
streambed in the Columbia River Estuary, either within or outside of its normal
high water boundary.
2) Alterations to stream banks or streambeds shall:
(A) Maintain stream surface area where feasible; and
(B) Make maximum use of natural or existing deepwater channels; and
(C) Avoid creation of undesirable hydraulic conditions; and
(D) Avoid, minimize or mitigate impacts on estuarine aquatic and shorelands
resources.
3) Excavation activities in stream bankline areas resulting in expansion of existing
aquatic area shall comply with standards regulating excavation of shorelands for
the creation of new water surface area in Estuarine Construction, Section 6.4080.

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-24 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
Section 6.4190. Diking [ORD. 25-08]
1) The standards in this subsection apply to the construction, maintenance and
repair of flood control dikes in Columbia River Estuary shoreland and aquatic
areas. The standards do not apply to dredged material containment dikes.
2) Dike maintenance and repair may be allowed under any of the following
circumstances:
(A) Existing serviceable dikes, including those that allow some seasonal
inundation, may be repaired.
(B) Dikes that have been inadvertently breached may be repaired, subject to
state and federal permit requirements, if the property has not reverted to
estuarine habitat (as determined by U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the
Oregon Division of State Lands).
(C) Dikes that have been inadvertently breached causing a reversion of area
to estuarine habitat may be repaired, subject to state and federal permit
requirements, if the repair is commenced within 26 months of the breach.
(D) Dike repair projects that do not fit under (A), (B), or (C) above; that is
projects where the property has reverted and more than 36 months have
elapsed; must be reviewed as new dikes.
3) Dike maintenance and repair are distinguished from new dike construction. To
qualify as maintenance and repair, changes in the location, size, configuration,
orientation and alignment of the dike must be limited to the minimum amount
necessary to retain or restore its operation or function or to meet current
engineering standards.
4) Filling aquatic areas for dike maintenance may be allowed only if it can be clearly
demonstrated that there are no feasible engineering alternatives which would
avoid the use of aquatic area fill.
5) The outside dike face shall be suitably protected from erosion during construction
and maintenance operations. Shoreline stabilization standards shall be met.
6) New dikes in aquatic areas may be permitted if one or more of the following
standards are met;
(A) As part of an approved fill project; or
(B) As a temporary flood protection measure needed to promote public safety
and welfare, subject to applicable U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and
Oregon Department of State Lands rules; or
(C) Subject to an exception to Statewide Planning Goal 16.
7) Dredging of subtidal estuarine areas as a source of fill material for dike
maintenance, in all aquatic area designations, may be allowed pursuant to the
standards of Section 6.4200. Dredging and Dredged Material Disposal
Section 6.4200. Dredging and Dredged Material Disposal
Standards in this subsection are applicable to all Columbia River Estuary estuarine
dredging operations and to both estuarine shoreland and aquatic dredged material
disposal.

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-25 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
Section 6.4205. Dredging Standards [ORD. 25-08]
1) Dredging in estuarine aquatic areas, are subject to these standards, and shall be
allowed only if:
(A) Specifically allowed in the applicable aquatic zone and required for one or
more of the following uses and activities:
i. Navigation or navigational access;
ii. A water-dependent use that requires an estuarine location;
iii. A restoration project;
iv. Mining or mineral extraction;
v. Excavation necessary for approved bridge crossing support
structures, or pipeline, cable, or utility crossing;
vi. Obtaining fill material for dike maintenance where an exception to
Statewide Planning Goal 16 has been approved;
vii. Maintenance and installation of tidegates in existing functional
dikes and tidegate drainage channels;
viii. Aquaculture facilities;
ix. Temporary alterations; and
x. Incidental dredging for harvest of benthic species or removable in-
water structures such as stakes or racks.
2) When dredging is permitted, the dredging shall be the minimum necessary to
accomplish the proposed use.
3) Erosion, sedimentation, increased flood hazard, and other changes in circulation
shall be avoided at the dredging and disposal site and in adjacent areas.
4) The timing of dredging and dredged material disposal operations shall be
coordinated with state and federal resource agencies, local governments, and
private interests to protect estuarine aquatic and shoreland resources, minimize
interference with commercial and recreational fishing, including snag removal
from development drifts, and ensure proper flushing of sediment and other
materials introduced into the water by the project.
5) Sediment Analyzation and Testing shall be consistent with the most recent
version of the Sediment Evaluation Framework for the Pacific Northwest.
6) Adverse short-term effects of dredging and aquatic area disposal such as
increased turbidity, release of organic and inorganic materials or toxic
substances, depletion of dissolved oxygen, disruption of the food chain, loss of
benthic productivity, disturbance of fish runs and impacts to important localized
biological communities shall be minimized.
7) Impacts on areas adjacent to the dredging site such as destabilization of fine
textured sediments, erosion, siltation and other changes in circulation patterns
shall be minimized.
8) The effects of both initial and subsequent maintenance dredging, as well as
dredging equipment marshaling and staging, shall be considered prior to
approval of new projects or expansion of existing projects. Projects will not be
approved unless disposal sites with adequate capacity to meet initial excavation
dredging and at least five years of expected dredge disposal are available.

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-26 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
9) Dredging for maintenance of existing tidegate drainage channels and drainage
ways is limited to the amount necessary to maintain and restore flow capacity
essential for the function of tidegates and to allow drainage and protection of
agricultural and developed areas. Tidegate maintenance dredging does not
include enlarging or extending the dimensions of, or changing the bottom
elevations of, the affected tidegate drainage channel or drainage way as it
existed prior to the accumulation of sediments.
10) Dredging of subtidal estuarine areas as a source of fill material for dike
maintenance, in all aquatic area designation, may be allowed upon the
applicant's demonstration that:
(A) Alternative methods of accomplishing dike maintenance are infeasible (i.e.
dikes proposed for receiving dredged material are remote from upland
sources of fill material and that land based heavy equipment access to the
dike area is not possible);
(B) Dredging in all cases will be limited to that necessary to maintain the
dikes. Dredging as a source of fill material for dike maintenance does not
include enlarging or changing the bottom contour of natural aquatic areas
for navigation or any other aquatic area use;
(C) Dredging will not disturb or excavate emergent vegetation, intertidal flats,
or other adjacent intertidal estuarine resources;
(D) Dredging as a source of fill material for dike maintenance will, in all cases:
i. take place in subtidal aquatic areas and shall be limited to the
deepest subtidal aquatic area accessible to float-mounted dredging
equipment.
ii. In narrow tributary areas of the estuary, dredging shall be limited to
the deepest subtidal areas closest to the centerline of the
waterway.
iii. In reaches of the estuary exceeding 200 feet in width, dredging
shall be limited to subtidal areas greater than 89 feet in distance
from the waterward toe of the dikes.
iv. The intent of this standard is to protect the dike structures from
sloughing, maintain existing berms and shoal water immediately
adjacent to dikes, and limit dredge excavations to subtidal areas
below the level of effective light penetration.
(E) Dredging will not be confined to localized areas of river bottom. All
excavations as a source of fill material shall be linearly dispersed along
the entire dike maintenance area. Dredging shall not alter the existing
contour of the river bottom such that deep trenches and pockets capable
of stranding or impeding estuarine life forms will be created.
(F) Dredging operations shall be consistent with state and federal permit
conditions, the requirements of local governments, and concerns of
private interests, to ensure that project timing and dredging conditions
protect estuarine resources (e.g. fish runs, spawning activity, benthic
productivity, wildlife habitat, etc.).

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-27 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
11) Dredging for mining and mineral extraction, including sand extraction, shall only
be allowed in areas deeper than 10 feet below MLLW where the project sponsor
demonstrates that mining and mineral extraction in aquatic areas is necessary
because no feasible upland sites exist and that the project will not significantly
impact estuarine resources. The estuary bottom at the project site shall be
sloped so that sediments from areas shallower than 10 feet below MLLW and
other areas not included in the project do not slough into the dredged area.
Dredging as part of an approved dredging project which also provided fill for an
approved fill project shall not be subject to this standard.
12) When proposing dredging for sand extraction, the project sponsor shall first
consider obtaining the material from a shoaled area within a federally authorized
navigation channel that is currently shallower than its authorized depth. Said
dredging shall be coordinated with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The
dredging depth shall not exceed the authorized channel depth plus any over-
dredging that the Corps would normally perform while maintaining the site.

Section 6.4207. Dredged Material Disposal Standards [ORD. 24-18] [ORD. 25-08]
1) Dredged material disposal shall occur only at designated sites or at new sites
which meet the requirements of the Dredged Material Disposal Site Selection
Policies in Section 5.4500.
2) In-water disposal of dredged materials, including flowlane disposal, expanded
flowlane/thalweg disposal, shallow water placement, confined aquatic placement,
shoreline placement, transfer sites for temporary storage of dredged material,
beach nourishment, estuarine open-water disposal, ocean disposal, and agitation
dredging, shall: [ORD. 25-05]
(A) Demonstrate the need for the proposed action and that there are no
feasible alternative disposal sites or methods that entail less damaging
environmental impacts; and
(B) Demonstrate that the dredged sediments meet state and federal sediment
testing requirements and water quality standards (see Dredging Standard
6); and
(C) Not be permitted in the vicinity of a public water intake.
3) In-water estuary disposal shall be coordinated with commercial fishing interests,
including, the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife and the Washington
Department of Fish and Wildlife.
4) In-water disposal actions shall avoid impacts to commercial fishing through:
(A) Disposal timing,
(B) Gear placement,
(C) Choice of disposal area within the drift, and
(D) Disposal techniques to avoid snag placement.
5) Flowlane disposal, expanded flowlane/thalweg disposal, shallow water
placement, confined aquatic placement, shoreline placement, transfer sites for
temporary storage of dredged material, estuarine open water disposal and
agitation dredging shall be monitored to assure that estuarine sedimentation is

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-28 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
consistent with the resource capabilities and purposes of affected adjacent
natural and conservation designations. The monitoring program shall be
established prior to undertaking disposal. The program shall be designed to both
characterize baseline conditions prior to disposal and monitor the effects of the
disposal. The primary goals of the monitoring are to determine if the disposal is
resulting in measurable adverse impacts and to establish methods to minimize
impacts. Monitoring shall include, at a minimum, physical measurements such a
bathymetric changes and may include biological monitoring. Specific monitoring
requirements shall be based on, at a minimum, sediment grain size at the
dredging and disposal site, presence of contaminants, proximity to sensitive
habitats and knowledge of resources and physical characteristics of the disposal
site. [ORD. 25-05]
6) Flowlane disposal shall be in zoned Aquatic Development that are identified as
low in benthic productivity and where use of these areas shall not have adverse
hydraulic effects. Use of flowlane disposal areas in the estuary shall be allowed
only when no feasible alternative land or ocean disposal sites with less damaging
environmental impacts can be identified and the biological and physical impacts
of flowlane disposal are demonstrated to be insignificant. The feasibility and
desirability of alternative sites shall take into account, at a minimum:
(A) Operational constraints such as distance to the alternative sites;
(B) Sediment characteristics at the dredging site;
(C) Timing of the operation;
(D) Environmental Protection Agency constraints on the use of designated
ocean disposal sites;
(E) The desirability of reserving some upland sites for potentially
contaminated material.
(F) Long term use of a flowlane disposal area may only be allowed if
monitoring confirms that the impacts are not significant. Flowlane disposal
is contingent upon demonstration that:
i. Significant adverse effects due to changes in biological and
physical estuarine properties will not result; and
ii. Flowlane disposal areas are able to transport downstream without
excessive shoaling, interference with recreational and commercial
fishing operations, including the removal of snags from
development drifts, undesirable hydraulic effects, or adverse effects
on estuarine resources (fish runs, spawning activity, benthic
productivity, wildlife habitat, etc.).
7) Expanded flowlane/thalweg disposal may be permitted in Conservation Other
Resources areas if an exception to Goal 16 has been approved. In areas where
expanded flowlane/thalweg disposal may be allowed, the proposal shall be
reviewed as a Type II Conditional Use using the standards in Sections 4.3730
and 4.3750. When determining whether a proposal is within the expanded
flowlane/thalweg disposal area covered by an approved Goal 16 exception, the
Columbia River Estuary Thalweg map adopted by Ordinance 24-17 shall be

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-29 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
consulted. It is important to note that the text descriptions and definition of
“expanded flowlane/thalweg disposal” are the regulating boundaries of this
exception area. Maps and GIS data layers used by the County are a
representation of those boundaries. In cases where the informational thalweg
map and the actual location conflict, the text descriptions and definition should be
used to resolve any boundary confusion. [ORD. 24-18]
8) Shallow water placement of dredged material may be conditionally permitted in
Conservation Other Resources and Natural areas if an exception to Goal 16 has
been approved. In areas designated Conservation Other Resources, the
proposal shall be reviewed as a Type II Conditional Use using the standards in
Sections 4.3740 and 4.3750. In areas designated Natural, the proposal shall be
reviewed as a Type II Conditional Use using the standards in Sections 4.4640
and 4.4650. [ORD. 25-05]
9) Transfer sites for the temporary storage of dredged material may be conditionally
permitted in areas designated Conservation Other Resources in an exception to
Goal 16 has been approved. Transfer sites shall be reviewed as a Type II
Conditional Use using the standards in Sections 4.3740 and 4.3750. [ORD. 25-
05]
10) Confined Aquatic Placement of dredged material may be conditionally permitted
in areas designated Natural if an exception to Goal 16 has been approved.
Confined Aquatic Placement sites shall be reviewed as a Type II Conditional Use
using the standards in Sections 4.4640 and 4.4650. [ORD. 25-05]
11) Shoreline placement of dredged material may be conditionally permitted in areas
designated Natural if an exception to Goal 16 has been approved. Shoreline
placement shall be reviewed as a Type II Conditional Use using the standards in
Sections 4.4640 and 4.4650. [ORD. 25-05]
12) Ocean disposal shall be conducted such that:
(A) The amount of material deposited at a site is compatible with benthic
productivity, other marine resources, and other uses of the area;
(B) Interference with sport and commercial fishing is minimized;
(C) Disposal is strictly confined to the sites designated by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency; and
(D) The disposal site does not shoal excessively or create dangerous wave
and swell conditions.
13) Beach nourishment shall only be conducted at sites identified in the Dredged
Material Management Plan. New sites may be added to the Plan by amendment
after an exception to Statewide Planning Goal 16 for the site has been approved.
Beach nourishment shall be conducted such that:
(A) The beach is not widened beyond its historical profile. The historical profile
shall be defined as the widest beach profile that existed prior to June
1986.
(B) The material placed on the beach consists of sand of equal or greater
grain size than the sand existing on the beach.
(C) Placement and subsequent erosion of the materials does not adversely

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-30 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
impact tidal marshes or productive intertidal and shallow subtidal areas.
(D) Efforts are made to maintain a stable beach profile.
(E) Dredged material is graded at a uniform slope and contoured to minimize
juvenile fish stranding and hazards to beach users.
(F) Use of beach nourishment sites shall be allowed only when no feasible
land or ocean sites with less damaging environmental impacts can be
identified. The feasibility and desirability of alternative sites shall take into
account, at a minimum:
i. Operational constraints such as distance to the alternative sites;
ii. Sediment characteristics at the dredging site;
iii. Timing of the operation;
iv. Environmental Protection Agency constraints on the use of
designated ocean disposal sites;
v. The desirability of reserving some upland sites for potentially
contaminated material.
14) Except as noted below, land disposal and site preparation shall be conducted
such that:
(A) Surface runoff from disposal sites is controlled to protect water quality and
prevent sedimentation of adjacent water bodies, wetlands, and drainage
ways.
(B) Disposal runoff water must enter the receiving waterway through a
controlled outfall at a location with adequate circulation and flushing
characteristics.
(C) Underground springs and aquifers must be identified and protected;
(D) Dikes are constructed according to accepted engineering standards and
are adequate to support and contain the maximum potential height and
volume of dredged materials at the site, and form a sufficiently large
containment area to encourage proper ponding and to prevent the return
of dredged materials into the waterway or estuary.
(E) Containment ponds and outfall weirs shall be designed to maintain
adequate standing water at all times to further encourage settling of
dredged materials.
(F) The dikes shall be constructed within the boundaries of the disposal site
and shall be constructed of material obtained from within the site or other
approved sources.
(G) Clean dredged material placed on land disposal sites located directly
adjacent to designated beach nourishment sites may be allowed to flow
directly into the waterway without conforming to (A-F) of this Section,
provided that all policies and standards for in-water disposal and beach
nourishment are met and the dredged materials are not allowed to enter
wetlands or the waterway in areas other than the designated beach
nourishment site.
15) Land disposal sites which are not intended for dredged material disposal or
development use within a two-year period following disposal shall be revegetated

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-31 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
as soon as site and weather conditions allow, unless habitat management plans
agreed upon by resource management agencies specify that open sand areas
should remain at the site. The applicant or project sponsor shall notify the county,
state and federal permitting and resource management agencies when disposal
is completed and shall coordinate revegetation with these agencies. The
notification shall be sent to at least the following agencies:
(A) the county,
(B) U.S. Army Corps of Engineers,
(C) Clatsop Soil and Water Conservation District,
(D) Oregon Department of State Lands,
(E) Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife.
16) Revegetation of a disposal site does not preclude future use of the sites for
dredged material disposal.
17) The disposal site design shall be reviewed to determine if wetlands or other
habitats will form on the site during the period between disposal actions. The
disposal permit may be conditioned to allow future disposal actions to fill the
created wetlands or habitats.
18) The final height and slope after each use of a land dredged material disposal site
shall be such that:
(A) The site does not enlarge itself by sloughing and erosion into adjacent
areas;
(B) Loss of materials from the site during storms and freshets is minimized;
and
(C) Interference with the view from nearby residences, scenic points, and
parks does not occur.
Section 6.4210. Filling of Aquatic Areas and Non-Tidal Wetlands [ORD. 25-08]
1) This subsection applies to the placement of fill material in tidal wetlands and
waters of the Columbia River Estuary. These standards also apply to fill in non-
tidal wetlands in shoreland designations that are identified as "significant"
wetlands under Statewide Planning Goal 17.
2) Fill shall cover no more than the minimum necessary to accomplish the proposed
use.
3) Aquatic area fills using either dredged material or other easily erodible material
shall be surrounded by appropriately stabilized dikes.
4) Aquatic areas shall not be used for disposal of solid waste.
5) Projects involving fill may be approved only if the following alternatives are
examined and found to be infeasible:
(A) Construct some or all of the project on pilings;
(B) Conduct some or all of the proposed activity on existing uplands;
(C) Relocate the project to an alternative site where adverse impacts are less
significant.
Section 6.4220. Riparian Vegetation Protection [ORD. 25-08]

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-32 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
See Section 6.5000. Protection of Riparian Vegetation.
Section 6.4230. Fish and Wildlife Habitat [ORD. 25-08]
1) This subsection applies to uses and activities that may potentially impact fish or
wildlife habitat in Columbia River Estuary aquatic and shoreland areas.
2) Projects affecting endangered, threatened or sensitive species habitat, as
identified by the US Fish and Wildlife Service or Oregon Department of Fish and
Wildlife, shall be designed to minimize potential adverse impacts. This shall be
accomplished by one or more of the following:
(A) Soliciting and incorporating agency recommendations into local permit
reviews;
(B) Dedicating and setting aside undeveloped on-site areas for habitat;
(C) Providing on- or off-site compensatory mitigation for lost or degraded
habitat;
(D) Retaining key habitat features (for example: roosting trees, riparian
vegetation, feeding areas).
3) In-water construction activity in aquatic areas shall follow the recommendations
and regulations of state and federal fisheries agencies with respect to project
timing to avoid unnecessary impacts on migratory fish.
4) Uses and activities with the potential to adversely affect fish and wildlife habitat
may be approved only if the following impact mitigation actions are incorporated
into the project where feasible. These impact mitigation actions are listed from
highest to lowest priority:
(A) Avoiding the impact altogether by not taking a certain action or parts of an
action;
(B) Minimizing impacts by limiting or reducing the scope of proposed
activities;
(C) Rectifying the impact by repairing, rehabilitating, or restoring the affected
environment, including removal of wetland fills or rehabilitation of a
resource use and/or extraction site when its economic life is terminated;
(D) Reducing or eliminating the impact over time by preservation and
maintenance operations.
5) Projects involving subtidal or intertidal aquatic area fill or intertidal aquatic
dredging with the potential for adversely affecting aquatic habitat must provide
compensatory mitigation, consistent with Mitigation and Restoration Standards
(subsection 6.4150).
Section 6.4240. Public Access to the Estuary and its Shoreline [ORD. 25-08]
1) Standards in this subsection apply to all uses and activities in Columbia River
Estuary shoreland and aquatic areas which directly or indirectly affect public
access. "Public access" is used broadly here to include direct physical access to
estuary aquatic areas (i.e., boat ramps), aesthetic access (i.e., viewing
opportunities), and other facilities that provide some degree of public access to
shorelands and aquatic areas.

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-33 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
2) Projects to improve public access shall be designed to ensure that adjacent
privately owned shoreland is protected from public encroachment or trespass.
3) Clatsop County shall review proposals for the sale, exchange or transfer of
publicly-owned lands that provide public access to estuarine waters using the
provisions of ORS 271.300-271.360.
4) Public access improvements shall minimize negative impacts to coastal
shoreland cultural and natural resources. The County shall consult with
appropriate state or federal agencies to implement this standard.
5) New public developments shall provide public access to coastal shorelands,
unless public access is unsafe or would damage cultural or natural resources.
Section 6.4250. Significant Areas [ORD. 25-08]
1) The standards in this subsection are intended to protect certain Columbia River
shoreland and aquatic resources with estuary-wide significance. Significant
shoreland and aquatic resources are identified as such in Goal 16: Estuarine
Resources and Goal 17: Coastal Shorelands of the Comprehensive Plan.
Significant aquatic resources are found in Natural Aquatic areas. This section
applies only to activities and uses that potentially affect significant shoreland or
aquatic resources. Other resources without estuary-wide significance are not
covered by this section. Only those resources identified as significant under
Statewide Planning Goal 17 are covered by these standards.
2) Temporary removal of riparian vegetation may be permitted in conjunction with a
water- dependent use where direct access to the water is required for
construction or for a temporary use. Riparian vegetation removed for these
reasons must be replaced upon project completion. Permanent removal of
riparian vegetation may be approved for a water-dependent project.
3) Permanent removal of riparian vegetation may be permitted along transportation
rights- of-way for purposes of maintaining clear vision. Riparian vegetation that
threatens the stability of flood control dikes may be removed.
4) Public access to significant scenic areas shall be provided in a manner
consistent with the preservation of the scenic area and other significant
resources.
5) Tidegated sloughs and drainage ditches identified as having significant aquatic
habitat value, significant riparian vegetation, or other significant shoreland
resource value may be maintained with respect to depth, but their bankline
location and configuration may not be altered, unless part of an approved fill or
shoreline stabilization project.
6) Riparian vegetation may be removed as necessary for approved mitigation,
restoration or creation projects.
7) Timber may be harvested in the AN zone and adjacent riparian areas under the
following conditions:
(A) Any timber harvesting operations must be carried out in accordance with a
harvest plan approved by the Oregon Department of Forestry; and
(B) Selection of trees for harvest shall be done with consideration of retaining

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-34 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
natural values.
Section 6.4260. Water Quality Maintenance [ORD. 24-18] [ORD. 25-08]
1) The standards in this subsection are intended to protect and enhance the quality
of water in the Columbia River Estuary. Impacts on water quality in aquatic areas
and in tidegated sloughs in shoreland areas are subject to these standards.
2) Thermal effluents shall be cooled before they are returned to the estuary.
3) The potential adverse impacts on water quality from dredging, fill, in-water
dredged material disposal (including shoreline placement, shallow water
placement, confined aquatic placement and transfer sites), expanded
flowlane/thalweg disposal, water intake or withdrawal, and slip or marina
development will be assessed during permit review. Parameters to be addressed
include: [ORD. 25-05]
(A) Turbidity
(B) Dissolved oxygen
(C) Biochemical oxygen demand
(D) Contaminated sediments
(E) Salinity
(F) Water temperature
(G) Flushing
4) New point-source waste water discharges into the Columbia River will be
controlled through the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
permit program.
5) Estuarine aquatic area pesticide and herbicide application will be controlled by
the Department of Environmental Quality, Oregon Department of Forestry and/or
the Department of Agriculture.
Section 6.4270. Water-Dependent and Water-Related Use Criteria [ORD. 25-08]
1) Shoreland and aquatic zones must differentiate between water-dependent uses,
water-related uses and non-water-dependent or non-water-related uses when
establishing procedures and requirements for proposed uses. The level of
development must be compatible with the purpose and characteristics of the
shorelands and adjacent waters.
2) Water-Dependent Uses: A use is water-dependent when it can only be
accomplished on, in, or adjacent to water, or direct water access is required for
any of the following:
(A) Waterborne transportation such as navigation, moorage, fueling and
servicing of ships or boats; terminal and transfer facilities; fish or other
material receiving and shipping, or;
(B) Recreation active recreation such as swimming, boating and fishing or
passive recreation such as viewing and walking, or;
(C) A source of water for energy production, cooling of industrial equipment or
wastewater, other industrial processes, or aquaculture operations, or;
(D) Marine research or education such as observation, sampling, recording

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-35 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
information, conducting field experiments and teaching.
2) Water-Related Uses: A use is water-related when it:
(A) Provides goods and/or services that are directly associated with water-
dependent uses, supplying materials to, or using products of water-
dependent commercial and industrial uses; or offering services directly
tied to the functions of water-dependent uses; and
(B) If not located adjacent to water, would experience a public loss of quality
in the goods and services offered. Evaluation of public loss of quality will
involve subjective consideration of economic, social and environmental
value.

SECTION 6.5000. PROTECTION OF RIPARIAN VEGETATION
Section 6.5005. Definitions
The following definitions apply to this section.
3) COASTAL SHORELANDS – Those are immediately adjacent to the ocean,
estuaries, associated wetland and coastal lakes. The extent of shorelands shall
include at least:
(A) Areas subject to ocean flooding and lands within 100 feet of the ocean
shore or within 50 feet of an estuary or coastal lake;
(B) Adjacent areas of geologic instability where geologic instability is related
or will impact a coastal water body;
(C) Natural or human-made riparian resources, especially vegetation
necessary to stabilize the shoreline and to maintain water quality and
temperature necessary for the maintenance of fish habitat and spawning
areas;
(D) Areas of significant shoreland and wetland biological habitats whose
habitat quality is primarily derived from or related to the association with
coastal water areas;
(E) Areas necessary for water-dependent and water-related uses including
areas of recreational importance which utilize coastal water or riparian
resources; areas appropriate for navigation and port facilities; dredged
material disposal and mitigation sites, and areas having characteristics
suitable for aquaculture;
(F) Areas of exception aesthetic or scenic quality, where the quality is
primarily derived from or related to the association with coastal water
areas;
(G) Coastal headlands;
(H) Dikes and their associated inland toe drains; and
(I) Locations of archaeological or historical importance associated with the
estuary.
4) RIPARIAN – of, pertaining to, or situated on the edge of the bank of a river or
other body of water.
5) SIGNIFICANT SHORELAND RESOURCES – Are described in subarea plans,
and are included in the Coastal Shorelands boundaries. Significant shoreland

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-36 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
resources include significant non-tidal wetlands, significant shoreland fish and
wildlife habitat, significant riparian vegetation, exceptional aesthetic resources
and coastal headlands.
[ORD. 25-02]
Section 6.5010. Purpose and Areas Included [ORD. 25-08]
Riparian vegetation is important for maintaining water temperature and quality,
providing bank stabilization, thus minimizing erosion, providing habitat for the feeding,
breeding, and nesting of aquatic and terrestrial wildlife species, and protecting and
buffering the aquatic ecosystem from human disturbances. This section establishes
standards to protect riparian vegetation on lands not subject to the requirements of the
Oregon Forest Practices Act.

Section 6.5015. Areas of Riparian Vegetation [ORD. 25-08]
1) Areas of riparian vegetation are established as follows:
(A) Estuarine and Coastal Shoreland rivers and sloughs: a 50-foot-wide
riparian vegetation shall be maintained, except where shown on the
County's estuarine resource base maps.
(B) Lakes, reservoirs, and river segments outside of Estuarine or Coastal
Shoreland areas: a 50-foot-wide riparian vegetation zone shall be
maintained. Where emergent wetland vegetation exists adjacent to a lake,
reservoir, or river segment, the 50-foot buffer shall be measured from the
landward extent of the emergent wetland area. If a shrub or forested
wetland area exists adjacent to the lake, reservoir or river segment, the
zone of riparian vegetation shall be the entire area of the shrub or forested
wetland.
(C) Measurements are taken horizontally and perpendicular from the mean
higher high water line and from the ordinary high water line in non-
estuarine areas.
Section 6.5020. Development Standards [ORD. 25-02] [ORD. 25-08]
1) All development, as defined by LAWDUC section 1.0500, shall be located
outside of riparian vegetation areas defined in 6.5000 above, unless direct water
access is required in conjunction with a water-dependent or water-related use or
as otherwise allowed by this Ordinance.
2) Because the zone of riparian vegetation is uniform in width it may in particular
locations include pasture land, land managed for agricultural crops, landscaped
area or unvegetated areas which do not function as riparian vegetation. The
applicant is entitled to undertake an independent site investigation to establish
the extent of riparian vegetation requiring protection.
3) Exemptions from (1) and (2) above and from the applicable setback requirement
for the front or rear yard that is opposite the riparian area may be granted without
a variance for uses on:
(A) Lots or parcels located in areas identified in the Comprehensive Plan's

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-37 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
Goal 2 exception element as "built and committed" and which existed as
of the date of adoption of this ordinance (September 30, 1980), and single
family residential “lots of record” as defined and used in Section 1.0500 of
this ordinance, when the building envelope created by applying the
front/rear yard setback and the riparian setback is less than 45 feet deep.
(B) Exemptions from the riparian setback shall be the minimum necessary to
accommodate the proposed use, but in no case shall the front/rear yard
opposite the riparian area be reduced to a width of less than ten feet.
4) Vegetation within the riparian setback shall be maintained with the following
exceptions:
(A) The removal of dead, diseased or dying trees that pose and erosion or
safety hazard.
(B) Vegetation removal to provide direct water access to the Columbia River
Estuary for an approved water-dependent or water-related use that meets
the criteria in Section 6.4270.
(C) Removal of vegetation necessary for the placement of structural shoreline
stabilization.
(D) Removal of noxious weeds and replacement of non-native vegetation with
native vegetation. Replacement of non-native vegetation shall require the
submittal of a planting plan identifying the following:
i. Vegetation to be removed
ii. Vegetation to be planted
iii. Required actions that will be taken by the property owner or
designee to ensure that the replacement vegetation will survive for
a period of 5 years
iv. Guarantee to replace any vegetation that dies during the five-year
period
(E) All vegetation removal and replacement shall be done by hand.
5) As an alternative to compliance with the above standards, the applicant may
undertake an independent site investigation to establish the extent of riparian
vegetation requiring protection. The independent site investigation shall be
conducted at the property owner’s expense. Based upon the findings of the
investigation, the comprehensive plan shall be amended to revise the boundaries
of inventoried riparian areas based upon the investigation findings.
6) The requirements of this section shall not apply to actions covered by the Oregon
Forest Practices Act.

SECTION 6.6000. AGRICULTURAL AND TIMBERS STANDARDS WITHIN A GOAL 5
WETLAND
Section 6.6010. Standards for Low Intensity, Non-Structural Agricultural Uses
within a Goal 5 Wetland
1) No man-made forms of drainage to be employed.
2) A 50-foot strip of natural vegetation shall be left along any year round standing or
running water area.

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-38 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
3) The number of animals to be grazed on a parcel and the times of year they will
be on the parcel shall be set out in the permit. The applicant must show that the
area has the carrying capacity for the number of animals proposed without major
modifications to the parcel and without significantly affecting the integrity of the
wetland area.
Section 6.6020. Standards for Selective Harvesting of Timber Within a Goal 5
Wetland
1) Any harvesting of timber shall be according to a plan approved with the
Conditional Use Permit.
2) Selection of trees to harvest shall be done with consideration of retaining wetland
values.
3) Exemptions from (1) and (2) above and from the applicable setback requirement
for the front or rear yard that is opposite the riparian area may be granted without
a variance for uses on:
(A) Lots located in areas identified in the Comprehensive Plan's Goal 2
exception element as "built and committed" and which existed as of the
date of adoption of this ordinance, and single-unit residential "lots of
record" as defined and used in Chapter 884 Oregon Laws 1981 as
amended, where the lot depth resulting from the riparian setback and the
opposite front/rear yard setback is less than 45 feet. [ORD. 25-16]
(B) Other lots in identified "built and committed" areas and other "lots of
record" where the combination of setbacks required by this section result
in a buildable lot depth of less than 45 feet.

Exemptions from the riparian setback shall be the minimum necessary to
accommodate the proposed use after the yard opposite the riparian area
has been reduced to a width of no less than ten feet.

SECTION 6.7000. DEVELOPMENT OF HISTORIC AND/OR ARCHEOLOGICAL
SITES
Section 6.7010. Development of Historic and/or Archeological Sites
1) No development shall be allowed on land which has been identified as a
historical- archeological site without review and approval by the Director and
appropriate agencies. Development adjacent to lands identified as historical-
archeological sites shall be subject to the Director's review and shall not
adversely impact the adjacent historical- archeological site.
2) The County shall work with the local Historical Advisory Committee and other
organizations to identify and protect important local historical and archeological
sites. Compatible uses and designs of uses should be encouraged for property
adjacent to important historical or archeological sites.
3) Clatsop County shall protect significant historical resources by:
(A) encouraging those programs that make preservation economically

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-39 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
possible;
(B) implementing measures for preservation when possible;
(C) recognizing such areas in public and private land use determinations
subject to County review.
Section 6.7020. Historic Site Protection
The following regulations apply to historic structures and sites identified in the
Comprehensive Plan as having potential conflicting uses (Tillamook Rock Lighthouse,
the Morrison House, the Clatsop Plains Memorial Church, and the Westport Log
Tunnel).
1) The Community Development Director shall review, under Type II procedure, all
building permit applications that propose the following changes to a historic
building: exterior alterations (except painting), additions to the building, and
construction of auxiliary buildings.
2) The Community Development Director shall review under a Type II procedure, all
proposed activities that may alter the character of historic sites.
3) The Community Development Director shall notify the Clatsop County Historical
Society and the State Historic Preservation Office of the proposed alterations.
Comments received on the compatibility of a proposed alteration with the
maintenance of a historic building or site's character shall be considered by the
Community Development Director in making his determination.
4) The Community Development Director shall consider the following criteria in
conducting this review:
(A) Compatibility of the proposed alteration with the site's historical character
(B) Use of exterior material and details that are consistent with the building's
historic character
(C) The maintenance of the building's predominant architectural features.
5) The Community Development Director shall review under a Type II procedure all
demolition permits for historic buildings.
6) The Community Development Director shall notify the Clatsop County Historical
Society and the State Historical Preservation Office of the proposed demolition.
7) The Community Development Director shall consider the following criteria in
conducting his review of a demolition permit:
(A) The state of repair of the building
(B) The feasibility of restoring or moving the building
(C) The interest of public or private individuals or groups in the structure
8) The Community Development Director may approve the issuance of a demolition
permit, or may deny an application based on adequate findings of fact that the
demolition would be detrimental to the County's historical heritage. In order to
obtain additional information, the Community Development Director may suspend
the application for a demolition permit for a period not to exceed 120 days.
During this period, the Community Development Director shall attempt to
determine if public or private acquisition and restoration is feasible, or other
alternatives are possible which could be carried out to prevent demolition of the

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-40 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
structure. If, during this period a feasible alternative is found, the Community
Development Director may extend the suspension of the application for a period
not to exceed one year. If no significant activities are undertaken during the one-
year period toward the acquisition of the structure, the suspension shall expire
and the demolition permit shall be issued by the Building Official, subject to other
pertinent requirements.
Section 6.7030. Archeological Site Protection
1) The Community Development Director and Building Official shall review building
permits, excavation permits or other land use actions that may affect known
archeological sites. If it is determined that a proposed building permit, excavation
permit or other land use action may affect the integrity of an archeological site,
the Community Development Director shall consult with the State Historic
Preservation Office on appropriate measures to preserve or protect the site and
its contents. No permit shall be issued until either the State Historic Preservation
Office determines that the proposed activity will not adversely affect the
archeological site, or the State Historic Preservation Office has developed a
program for the preservation or excavation of the site.
2) Indian cairns, graves and other significant archeological resources uncovered
during construction or excavation shall be preserved intact until a plan for their
excavation or reinternment has been developed by the State Historic
Preservation Office.

SECTION 6.8000. ROCK AND MINERAL RESOURCE USE
Section 6.8010. Purpose. Development Standards - Extraction Area
A development plan shall be submitted to the County Community Development
Department for any activity allowed as a conditional use. The development plan shall
provide the necessary documents, permits, and maps to demonstrate compliance with
the following standards and requirements:
1) Screening and Fencing.
(A) An earthen berm and buffer of existing or planted trees or vegetation shall
be maintained to fully screen the view of any mineral and aggregate
activity and all related equipment from any public road, public park, or
residence within 1000 feet. Where screening is shown to be impractical
because of topography or other physical characteristics of the site, the
screening requirements may be waived by the Community Development
Director.
(B) Sight obscuring fencing or approved barrier type shrubs shall be required
to eliminate any safety hazards that use of the site may create. Fencing, if
required, shall be sight obscuring and a minimum of six (6) feet high.
2) Access.
(A) All private access roads from mineral and aggregate sites to public roads
shall be paved or graveled. If graveled, the access road shall be graded
and maintained as needed to minimize dust.

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-41 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
(B) Improvement or fees in lieu of improvements of public roads, County
roads and state highways may be required when the Community
Development Director or hearings body, in consultation with the
appropriate road authority, determines that the increased traffic on the
roads resulting from the surface mining activity will damage the sufficiently
to warrant off-site improvement. If the fee in lieu of improvements is
required, the amount of the fee shall reflect the applicant's pro-rata share
of the actual total cost of the capital expenditure of the road construction
or reconstruction project necessitated by and benefiting the surface mining
operation. Discounts for taxes and fees already paid for such
improvements, such as road taxes for vehicles and for property already
dedicated or improved, shall be applied.
(C) Any internal road at a mineral and aggregate site within 250 feet of a
Sensitive Use shall be paved or graveled, and shall be maintained at all
times to reduce noise and dust in accordance with County or DEQ
standards specified in the ESEE analysis.
(D) An effective vehicular barrier or gate shall be required at all access points
to the site.
3) Hours of Operation.
(A) Blasting shall be restricted to the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday
through Friday. No blasting shall occur on Saturdays, Sundays, or any
recognized legal holiday.
(B) Mineral and aggregate extraction, drilling, processing and equipment
operation located within 1000 feet of a Sensitive Use is restricted to the
hours of 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Monday through Friday, and 8:00 a.m. to
5:00 p.m. Saturday. All other sites are limited to operating hours of 7:00
a.m. to 10:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday. No operation shall occur on
Sundays or recognized legal holidays.
(C) An increase in operating time limits shall be granted for all activities except
blasting if:
1. There are no Sensitive Uses within 1000 feet of the mining site; or if
2. There are Sensitive Uses within 1000 feet, the increased activity
will not exceed noise standards established by the County or DEQ;
and
3. The operator shall notify the owners and occupants of all Sensitive
Uses within 1000 feet by first class mail which is mailed at least 96
hours prior to the date and approximate time of the activity for
which the operator receives an exception.
(D) The operating time limits may be waived in the case of an emergency as
determined by the County governing body.
4. Environmental Standards.
(A) DEQ Standards. Mineral and aggregate extraction, processing and other
operations shall conform to all applicable environmental standards of the
County and State. Any crusher, asphalt, concrete, ready-mix or other

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-42 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
machinery shall submit an approved DEQ permit(s) at the time of
development plan application.
(B) DOGAMI Standards. Mineral and aggregate extraction, processing, other
operations and site reclamation shall conform to the requirements of the
Department of Geology and Mineral Industries (DOGAMI).
(C) Permits Required. Mining shall not commence until all applicable State
and Federal permits, if any, are provided to the County.
5) Equipment Removal. All surface mining equipment, machinery, vehicles,
buildings, man- made debris and other material related to the mineral and
aggregate activity shall be removed from the site within 30 days of completion of
all mining, processing and reclamation, except for structures which are permitted
uses in the underlying zone.
6) Performance Agreement.
(A) The operator of a mineral and aggregate site shall provide the County with
annual notification of DOGAMI permits.
(B) Mineral and aggregate operations shall be insured for $500,000.00
against liability and tort arising from production activities or operations
incidental thereto conducted or carried on by virtue of any law, ordinance
or condition, and such insurance shall be kept in full force and effect
during the period of such operations. a prepaid policy of such insurance
which is effective for a period of one year shall be deposited with the
County prior to commencing any mineral and aggregate operations. The
owner or operator shall annually provide the County with evidence that the
policy has been renewed.
7) Significant Resource Area Protection. Conflicts between inventoried mineral and
aggregate resource sites and significant fish and wildlife habitat, riparian areas
and wetlands, and ecologically and scientifically significant natural areas and
scenic areas protected by the Clatsop Plains Community Plan or other provision
of the County Comprehensive Plan, shall be addressed in the application and
findings for the conditional use.
8) Site Reclamation. a reclamation plan shall be submitted concurrently with the
development plan required in Section 5.4645. The reclamation plan shall include
a schedule showing the planned order and sequence of reclamation, shall assure
that the site will be restored or rehabilitated for the land uses anticipated after the
quarry operation, and shall meet DOGAMI requirements.
9) Water Management.
(A) Surface water shall be managed in a manner which meets all applicable
DEQ, DOGAMI, and ODFW water quality standards. Approval may be
conditioned upon meeting such standards by a specified date. Discharge
across public roads shall be prohibited. Existing natural drainages on the
site shall not be changed in a manner which substantially interferes with
drainage patterns on adjoining property, or which drains waste materials
or waste water onto adjoining property or perennial streams. Where the
mineral and aggregate operation abuts a lake, river, or perennial stream,

Clatsop County Land and Water VI-43 April 23, 2026
Development and Use Code      Ord. 25-08 and Ord. 25-16
ARTICLE 6. ENVIRONMENAL AND
RESOURCE PROTECTION
all existing vegetation within 100 feet of the mean high water mark shall be
retained unless otherwise authorized in accordance with the ESEE
analysis and the development plan.
(B) All water required for the mineral and aggregate operation, including dust
control, landscaping and processing of material, shall be legally available
and appropriated for such use. The applicant shall provide written
documentation of water rights from the State Department of Water
Resources and/or local water district prior to any site operation.
10) Floodplain. Any quarry operation located wholly or in part in a Special Flood
Hazard Area as shown on the Federal Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) shall receive
approval in accordance with Section 5.1000 of this Ordinance prior to any site
operation.