Clatsop County Land and Water III-1 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
ARTICLE 3.
STRUCTURE SITING AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
SECTION 3.0000. SITE ORIENTED IMPROVEMENTS
Section 3.0010. Calculating Average Grade and Building Height
The height of a structure is measured by first finding the average grade of the
undisturbed ground at the four corners of the proposed structure. To determine height:
[ORD 25-02]
A. When the height of a proposed building
is within two feet of the maximum
height limit allowed in the zone, the
applicant shall submit plans that show
the elevations of the undisturbed
ground prior to construction. The
elevations shall be measured at the
four corners of the proposed structure
(Figure 1). A permanently accessible
control point shall be established
outside of the building’s footprint.
B. Photographs of the undisturbed site
shall be required when the proposed
structure is two feet or less below the
maximum building height allowed in the
zone. Photographs do not need to be
professional or aerial photographs. Photographs shall show the undisturbed
ground where the structure will be located prior to beginning construction.
C. Prior to final inspections, a survey prepared by a licensed surveyor shall be
submitted to the Community Development Department to verify the height of the
structure (Figure 2). This requirement only applies when the structure is two feet
or less below the minimum building height allowed in the zone.

Figure 1: Calculating Average Grade
Figure 2: Measuring Building Height

Clatsop County Land and Water III-2 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Section 3.0020. Grading of Building Site.
The grading of a building site shall conform to the standards contained in this
Ordinance.
Section 3.0030. Special Site Development for Environmental Protection
Special requirements for environmental protection are specified in Article 6 of this
document. Sewage systems shall be allowed in areas outside the Urban Growth
Boundary only to alleviate a health hazard or water pollution problem identified by the
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality.  [ORD 25-02]
Section 3.0040. Water Improvement Standards
All new development shall demonstrate a year-round supply of at least 250 gallons of
water per day per unit by one of the following sources: [ORD 25-02]
Source Proof
Public or Community
Water
Written correspondence from the water district stating
water service can be provided to the residential unit or
can be provided if specific requirements are met
Well/Groundwater 1. Well log data from a certified well driller verifying
quantity
2. Potability test from certified water lab.
3. Recorded easement, if an easement is utilized
4. If more than three dwelling units will utilize the
well, the system must meet potable requirements
of ORS 448.119 to 448.285.
Surface Water 1. Permit from the State of Oregon Water Resources
Department for domestic water right showing at
least .005 CFS (2.25 gals/min).
2. Potability test from certified water lab.
Rainwater Catchment
System
Rainwater catchment system design approved by
Clatsop County Building Codes for the required water
supply

Compliance with this standard does not ensure a year-round source of potable water.
[ORD 25-02]
Section 3.0050. Off-Street Parking Required
Off-street parking and loading shall be provided as described in Sections 3.0050 to
3.0120. Parking calculations at or above 0.5 will be rounded up to the nearest whole
number, while decimals below 0.5 will be rounded down to the nearest whole number.
The minimum standard for parking shall be one (1) parking space,  unless noted
otherwise. [ORD. 23-07] [ORD. 25-02]

Clatsop County Land and Water III-3 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
EXAMPLE: If a parking calculation would require 3.5 spaces, applicants
shall be required to provide 4 parking spaces. If a parking calculation
requires 3.4 spaces, an applicant shall be required to provide 3 parking
spaces.
Section 3.0060. Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements
Uses are allowed to provide up to 30% of the required number of parking spaces,
except ADA-required spaces, as compact spaces. Compact spaces shall measure no
less than 7 feet wide by 15 feet long and each compact space shall be clearly marked
“Compact”. [ORD. 25-02]
The minimum off-street parking space requirements are as follows: [ORD.23-07]
1) Residential type of development and number of parking spaces. [ORD. 23-
07, ORD. 24-14] [ORD. 25-16]
KSF: 1,000 Square Feet
GHFA: Gross Habitable Floor Area
GLA: Gross Leasable Area

Affordable Housing 1 space per dwelling unit.
Cottage Cluster Development 1 space per cottage cluster dwelling
Dwelling, Accessory 0 spaces per dwelling unit
Dwelling, Attached 2 spaces per dwelling unit
Dwelling, Detached 2 spaces per dwelling unit
Dwelling, Duplex 1 space per dwelling unit
Dwelling, Health Hardship 0 spaces per dwelling unit
Dwelling, Multi-Unit 1 space per dwelling unit
Dwelling, Quadplex 1 space per dwelling unit
Dwelling, Triplex 1 space per dwelling unit
Employee Housing 1 space per dwelling unit
Family child care home. [ORD.
23-04]
No additional spaces other than the 2 parking
spaces required for the dwelling unit. [ORD. 23-04]
Manufactured Home Park 1 per mobile home site, plus 1 per site for guest
parking at a convenient location
Planned development As requested for each proposal
Transient Lodging 1 space per guest room, plus 1 space per 2
employees.
2) Commercial type of development and number of parking spaces. [ORD. 23-
07]
KSF: 1,000 Square Feet

Clatsop County Land and Water III-4 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
GHFA: Gross Habitable Floor Area
GLA: Gross Leasable Area

Auto, Boat, Trailer, RV sales 2.7 spaces per ksf GHFA interior sales area,
1.5 spaces per service bay.
Automobile Service Station 2 spaces per service bay.
Convenience Store with Gas Pumps 8 spaces per ksf GHFA
General Retail or Personal Service 3 spaces per ksf GHFA
Retail or Discount Grocery 5 spaces per ksf GHFA
Health/Fitness Club 4.5 spaces per ksf GHFA
Home Improvement Stores 5 per ksf GHFA
Food and Beverage
Casual Restaurant  0.45 spaces per seat, plus 1 space per
employee on largest shift
Coffee Kiosk
2 spaces. Drive-thru coffee kiosks are not
intended for onsite consumption of products.
Two spaces would allow for an ADA
accessible space and space for the
employee or manager
Fast Food, with Drive-Thru 0.34 spaces per seat
Fast Food, without Drive-Thru 0.5 spaces per seat
Fine Dining 0.5 spaces per seat, plus 1 space per
employee on largest shift
Winery 15 spaces per ksf GHFA in tasting room
Entertainment
Event Center, Racetrack, Recreation
Complex, Stadium, Theater, or similar
use
0.4 spaces per seat
Professional/Medical
Animal Hospital/Veterinary Clinic 3 spaces per ksf for GHFA
Clinic  4 spaces per ksf GHFA
General Office  3 spaces per ksf for GHFA
Financial Institution 3.5 spaces per ksf GHFA
Medical or Dental Office  3.5 spaces per ksf GHFA

Clatsop County Land and Water III-5 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
3) Institutional, public and quasi-public type of development and number of
parking spaces. [ORD. 23-07] [ORD. 25-16]
KSF: 1,000 Square Feet
GHFA: Gross Habitable Floor Area
GLA: Gross Leasable Area

Child care center [ORD. 23-04] Exempt from off-street parking
requirements
Congregate Care Facility 0.3 spaces per dwelling unit
Elementary, Middle and High Schools .35 spaces per student
Family Child Care Home 0 additional spaces beyond 2 spaces
required for single-unit dwelling
Golf course 8 per hole
Hospital 3 spaces per 1,000 ksf GHFA
Institutions of Higher Education Determined by parking study specific to
subject institution
Marina 0.5 spaces per berth
Nursing Home 1 space per 3 beds
Religious Institution or Assembly 0.5 spaces per seat
Senior Housing, Assisted Living 0.4 spaces per dwelling unit

4) Industrial type of development and number of parking spaces. [ORD. 23-07]
KSF: 1,000 Square Feet
GHFA: Gross Habitable Floor Area
GLA: Gross Leasable Area

Heavy Industrial 1 space per ksf GHFA
Industrial Park 1.2 spaces per ksf GHFA
Light Industrial 1 space per ksf GHFA
Mini-Storage 0.25 per spaces ksf GHFA
Specialty Trade, Contractor or General
Contractor
1.75 spaces per ksf of gross leasable floor
area
Trucking Terminal 1 space per employee on largest shoft
Utility 2 spaces per ksf GHFA
Warehouse 0.5 spaces per ksf GHFA
5) Requirements for building or development not specifically listed herein shall be
determined by the Community Development Director based upon the
requirements of comparable uses listed.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-6 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
6) The number of minimum required parking spaces may be reduced by up to 10%
if:
A. The proposal is located within a ¼ mile of an existing or planned transit
route, and;
B. Transit-related amenities such as transit stops, pull-outs, shelters, park-
and-ride lots, transit-oriented development, and transit service on an
adjacent street are present or will be provided by the applicant, or,
C. Site has a minimum of two dedicated parking spaces for motorcycles.
Section 3.0070. Off-Street Parking Restrictions
1) Parking spaces in a public or private street, including an alley, shall not count
towards the required off-street parking total. [ORD. 25-02]
2) Required parking spaces may be located on land owned or leased by the
business requiring the parking, provide the land is either adjacent to the business
or within 500 feet of the property line of the business served by the parking.
[ORD. 25-02]
3) Except for industrial uses, required parking for commercial uses shall not be
located in a required front or side yard setback area abutting a street, unless
there is a 5 foot-wide foot sidewalk or landscaped buffer separating the parking
from on street traffic. Required landscaped buffers shall comply with the clear
vision area requirements of Section 3.1000(1)(B)(v)  [ORD 23.07] [ORD. 25-02]
4) Required parking may be shared by two or more uses provided the operating
hours of each use do not overlap by more than one hour. Applicants proposing
shared parking shall provide a deed, lease, contract, or similar written instrument
verifying the joint use. [ORD. 25-02]
5) Required parking shall only be used for parking of operable vehicles of residents,
customers and employees of the use served by the parking. Required parking
shall not be used for the storage or display of vehicles or materials. [ORD. 25-02]
Section 3.0080. Off-Street Parking Plan
A plan showing the location of all required off-street parking and loading spaces, shall
be included with the development permit application. The plan shall show the following:
[ORD. 25-02]
1) Individual parking spaces
2) Drive aisles
3) Location of connections to streets, alleys, and other properties to be served
4) Required landscape buffers
5) Grading, drainage, surfacing and sub-grading details
6) Location of all structures being served by the parking
7) Location of signage and bumper guards
8) Sidewalks and pedestrian access ways

Clatsop County Land and Water III-7 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

Section 3.0090. Off-Street Parking Construction
Required parking spaces shall be improved and available for use at the time of final
building inspection.
Section 3.0100. Design Standards for Off-Street Parking
1) The following standards shall apply to the design of off-street parking required for
multi-unit, cottage cluster, and non-residential development: [ORD. 25-02]
(A) Parking spaces shall be a minimum of 9 feet by 19 feet. Compact spaces
shall measure no less than 7 feet wide by 15 feet long and each compact
space shall be clearly marked “Compact”.
(B) Drive aisles, parking spaces and turnarounds shall comply with the
following standards:
(A) Parking spaces shall be designed so that all vehicles enter the street
in a forward manner.
Figure 3: Example Off-Street Parking Plan

Clatsop County Land and Water III-8 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
(B) Parking spaces and drive aisles shall be marked and defined.
(C) Two-way drive aisles shall be a minimum of 18 feet in width. One-
way drive aisles shall be a minimum of 12 feet in width.
(D) Driveways, drive aisles, and turnaround areas shall have a minimum
vertical clearance of 12 feet for their entire length and width.
(E) Connections to public or private streets shall have a minimum 20-foot
clear vision area formed by the intersection of the driveway edges,
the street right-of-way line, and a straight line joining those points
(Figure 4). Development within the required clear vision area shall
comply with the requirements of Section 3.9530.

vi. Parking areas, drive aisles and turnarounds shall either be paved or
be graveled to a two inch depth. The choice of materials is at the sole
discretion of the property owner or developer of the project. [ORD.
25-02]
vii. Parking areas, drive aisles and turnarounds shall be maintained in
the same condition as originally approved and constructed. [ORD.
25-02]
viii. Parking areas, drive aisles and turnarounds shall have on-site
stormwater retention and erosion control measures designed in
compliance with Section 3.2000. [ORD. 25-02]
ix. Wheel stops or bumper guards shall be provided when parking
spaces abut a property line or building. No parking space shall
overhang a public right-of- way or other property line. [ORD. 25-02]
x. When a parking area or driveway is adjacent to residential,
agricultural or institutional uses, a site obscuring fence, wall or
evergreen hedge shall be provided on the property line. Fences and
walls shall be 6 feet in height. Evergreen hedges shall be a minimum
of 18 inches above the finished grade of the parking (Figure 5). Such
screening shall be maintained to the condition when original installed
20’
20’
20’
20’
Figure 4
DRIVEWAY

Clatsop County Land and Water III-9 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
and protected from damage by vehicles using the parking area.
[ORD. 25-02]
xi. All exterior lighting shall comply with the standards of Chapter 8.20,
Clatsop County Code. [ORD. 25-02]
2) The following standards shall apply to single-unit, duplex, attached, triplex, and
quadplex dwellings:
(A) Parking spaces shall be a minimum of 9 feet by 19 feet.
(B) Parking areas shall be designed to allow vehicles to enter the street in
either a forward or reverse direction.
(C) Parking spaces within an enclosed structure shall count towards the total
amount of required off-street parking. [ORD. 25-02]
Figure 5

Clatsop County Land and Water III-10 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Section 3.0110. Bicycle Parking Requirements
1) In rural communities, new multi-unit residential developments, cottage clusters,
retail, office and institutional developments shall provide one bicycle parking
space for every 10 required off-street parking spaces. [ORD. 25-02]
2) All transit transfer and park and ride lots, whether located within a rural
community or outside of a rural community, shall provide one bicycle parking
space for every 10 off-street parking spaces. [ORD. 25-02]
3) Bicycle parking facilities shall be placed within 100 feet of the main entrance of
the site’s principal use. Bicycle parking areas shall not interfere with parking
aisles, landscape areas, sidewalks or pedestrian ways. [ORD. 25-02]
Section 3.0120. Loading Facilities
1) The minimum area required for commercial and industrial loading spaces is as
follows:
(A) 250 sq.ft. for buildings of (5,000 to 20,000) sq.ft. of gross floor area.
(B) 500 sq.ft. for buildings of (20,000 to 50,000) sq.ft. of gross floor area.
(C) 750 sq.ft. for buildings in excess of (50,000) sq.ft. of gross floor area.
2) The required loading area shall not be less than ten feet in width by twenty-five
feet in length and shall have an unobstructed height of fourteen feet.
3) If possible, required loading areas shall be screened from public view, from
public streets and adjacent properties.
4) Required loading facilities shall be installed prior to final building inspection and
shall be permanently maintained as a condition of use.
5) A driveway designed for continuous forward flow of passenger vehicles for the
purpose of loading and unloading children shall be located on the site of a school
having a capacity greater than twenty-five students.
SECTION 3.0130. SIGN REQUIREMENTS.
Purpose: These regulations are intended to promote scenic values; prevent unsafe
driver distractions; provide orientation and directions; facilitate emergency response;
and generally provide useful signs in appropriate areas.
1) Sign placement:  No permanent sign or temporary sign in excess of six (6)
square feet may be placed in or extend over a required non-street side yard or a
street right-of-way, or within 10 feet of the front property line in a required front
yard.  Temporary signs of no larger than six (6) square feet may feet may be
placed in or extend over a required non-street side yard or a street right-of-way,
or within 10 feet of the front property line in a required front yard. No sign may be
located in a manner that will impair the use of an existing solar energy system on
adjoining property.  A minimum of 8 feet above sidewalks and 15 feet above
driveways shall be provided under free-standing signs.
2) Sign lighting/Movement:  Any lighting of signs must be directed away from
adjacent residential uses and so shielded, installed and aimed that the lighting
does not project past the object being illuminated.  Illumination of billboards shall

Clatsop County Land and Water III-11 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
be limited to commercial and industrial zoning districts.  Except for traffic control
signs or traffic hazard warning signs, no sign shall include or be illuminated by a
flashing, intermittent, revolving, rotating or moving light or move or have any
animated or moving parts.
3) Signs in any zone:  The following signs are permitted in any zoning district
without   the need for a permit:
(A) City limits signs and public notice signs.
(B) Directional signs for public facilities.
(C) Traffic control and safety signs.
(D) Signs placed by the owner to restrict or limit trespassing, hunting or
fishing.
4) Signs in Residential zones:  In residential zones, signs shall be directed
towards facing streets or located at needed points of vehicular access but no
closer than 200 feet apart.   Signage shall be limited to activities occurring on the
property upon which the sign is located as follows:
(A) A single name plate not exceeding three (3) square feet.
(B) A sign not exceeding thirty-two square feet pertaining to the or to a
construction project, lease, rental, or sale of the property.
(C) A sign not exceeding 90 square feet advertising a subdivision.
(D) A sign not exceeding 150 square feet, identifying a multi-unit dwelling or
motel.[ORD. 25-16]
(E) A sign not exceeding 24 square feet identifying a non-residential use.
(F) A sign not exceeding 24 square feet identifying a cottage industry.
(G) A sign not exceeding 24 square feet directing traffic to places of interest to
the public, such as tourist accommodations and recreation sites, which
would otherwise be difficult to find.
(H) A sign identifying a home occupation up to 6 square feet in size.
(I) Signage not exceeding a total of two hundred (200) square feet identifying
a mobile home park, recreational campground, primitive campground,
commercial farm, or community identification.  Individual signs shall not
exceed thirty-two (32) square feet in size.
(J) A sign not exceeding 16 square feet for a bed & breakfast.

The size limitations described in (B) through (J) above apply to each side of a single-
sided or double-sided sign.

5) Signs in Resource zones:  Except for the AF, F-80 and EFU zones signs are
not permitted in resource zones. Individual signs may not exceed thirty-two (32)
square feet and are limited as follows:
(A) Signs pertaining to permitted uses in the zone.
(B) Road identification signs.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-12 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
6) Signs in Commercial and Industrial zones:  The following signs are permitted
in Commercial and Industrial zones for activities occurring on the property upon
which the sign is located:
(A) Signage not exceeding 200 square feet for commercial establishments.
Individual signs may not exceed thirty-two square feet, unless otherwise
provided by these regulations.
(B) Signage not exceeding sixty (60) square feet (including any signage in the
canopy, windows or other display areas)  for retail or light industrial lease
spaces in multi-tenant buildings.
(C) A temporary sign not exceeding thirty-two square feet in area pertaining
either to the lease, rental or sale of the property or to a construction
project.
7) Temporary (including campaign) signs: In residential, commercial and
industrial zones signs placed for a period of not more than six consecutive
months are allowed provided they meet the following standards:
(A) The sign may not exceed thirty-two (32) square feet.
(B) The sign may not be illuminated.
(C) The sign shall be removed from the premises fifteen (15) days following
the event being advertised or six months after first placement, whichever
is earliest.
8) Calculating Sign Area:  The structure supporting or appearing to support a
freestanding sign need not be included in the area of the sign, unless that
structural element is conveying information as part of the sign.  In calculating the
square footage, the width shall be measured at the widest part of the sign,
including any cut-outs, and the length shall be measured at the longest part of
the sign, including any cut-outs. For multiple-sided signs (signs having 3 or more
faces) the area size standard shall be applied to the cumulative total of all sides
of the sign.
9) Copy Area:  Copy is allowed only on the face of the sign.  Copy is prohibited in
the ledger area of the sign, on the post of the sign, or other structure of the sign,
except to the extent that the sign owner’s logo or other disclosure is required by
law to be placed on the ledger, post or other structure of the sign.  For purposes
of this Section, “copy” is defined as any text or image.

10) Non-conforming signs:  Signs and sign structures not conforming to the
requirements of this ordinance shall be subject to the following:
(A) Text or images on the face of a legal non-conforming sign may be
changed but the sign may not be expanded.
(B) A legal non-conforming sign will be considered abandoned and
discontinued if there is no text or image on the display surface for a period
of six (6) consecutive months.
11) Permit required:  Except as otherwise provided, a Type I development permit is
required for the following activities:
(A) Installation of a new permanent sign;

Clatsop County Land and Water III-13 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
(B) A Type 1 permit shall be required for an increase in the face of any
permanent sign face by fifty (50) percent or more;
(C) Expanding the text or images of any non-conforming sign.

The Department shall review any proposed sign for conformance with the standards of
this section and any requirements under the State building codes.

Section 3.0140. General Exception to Yard Standards
1) Cornices, eaves, canopies, sunshades, gutters, chimneys, flues, belt courses,
leaders, sills, plasters, lintels, ornamental features, and other similar architectural
features may project up to two feet into a required yard or into required open
space. [ORD. 25-02]
2) The following exceptions to the front yard setback requirement are applicable to
all dwellings: [ORD. 25-02]
(A) When there are dwellings on either side of the subject property that have
front yard setbacks that are less than the minimum required, the front yard
for a new dwelling shall not be less than the average front yard of the
adjacent dwellings.
(B) If there is only one dwelling on one abutting lot and that dwelling does not
meet the minimum setback requirement, the front yard setback for a new
dwelling can be calculated as halfway between the front setback of the
adjacent dwelling and the minimum required front yard setback.
3) In zones where front, side or rear setbacks are required, structures up to 2.5 feet
(30 inches) in height may be located within that setback area.
4) Requirements for fences within required setbacks:
(A) Fences over 6 feet in height must adhere to the setback requirements of
the zone.
(B) Fences 6 feet or less in height may be placed on the property line, but
shall not be placed within clear vision areas. [ORD. 25-02]
Figure 6: Area Calculation and Placement of Signs

Clatsop County Land and Water III-14 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

Section 3.0150. Oceanfront Setback [ORD. 25-02]
1) For lots abutting the ocean shore, the oceanfront setback is based on the
location of buildings on abutting lots, as detailed below.
FIGURE 7: AVERAGE FRONT YARD SETBACK – TWO ADJACENT DWELLINGS
In this example, the minimum front yard setback is 25’. However, because of the variety in
existing setbacks of buildings on the same block, new development on Lot C may be located with a
setback of only 20 feet, which is the average setback of Lots B and D.
FIGURE 8: AVERAGE FRONT YARD SETBACK – ONE ADJACENT DWELLING
In this example, the minimum front yard setback is 25’. However, because of the variety in existing
setbacks of buildings on the same block, new development on Lot C may be located with a setback
of only 20 feet, which is halfway between the 15’ building setback on Lot B and the minimum
required setback of 25’.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-15 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
(A) For the Clatsop Plains Planning Area the oceanfront setback is the
construction setback line described in Section 5.4020(3), also shown
below.
i. A line 570 feet landward of the Statutory Vegetation Line established and
described by ORS 390.770, or the line of established upland shore
vegetation, whichever is further inland,  for the area north of Surf Pines to
the Columbia River South Jetty
ii. The Pinehurst construction setback line described in Ordinance 92-20
iii. The Surf Pines construction setback line described in Ordinance 83-17
(B) For the Southwest Coastal Planning Area and elsewhere along the
Clatsop County coast, the location and orientation of the Statutory
Vegetation Line established and described by ORS 390.770, or the line of
established upland shore vegetation, whichever is further inland.
2) For the purpose of determining the oceanfront setback line, the term “building”
refers to a permanent residential or commercial structure attached to a fixed
foundation on a lot. The term “building” does not include accessory structures or
uses.
3) The oceanfront setback line shall be parallel to the reference lines established in
Section 3.0150(1) and measurements from buildings shall be perpendicular to
these reference lines.
4) The setback of a building from these reference lines is measured from the most
seaward point of the building’s foundation. A building’s foundation does not
include decks, porches, beachfront protective structures, and similar unenclosed
accessory structures. [ORD. 25-02]
5) The oceanfront setback line for a parcel is determined as follows:
(A) When there are legally constructed buildings within 200 feet of the north
and south side lot lines of the subject property, the oceanfront setback line
for the subject property is the average oceanfront setback of all legally
constructed buildings within 200 feet.
(B) If there are legally constructed buildings within 200 feet of the side lot lines
in only one direction, either the north or  south, the oceanfront setback line
for the subject property is that of the nearest building.
(C) If there are no legally constructed buildings within 200 feet of the side lot
lines, the oceanfront setback line for the subject property shall be
established by the geotechnical report.
6) The Director shall require a greater oceanfront setback when information in a
geotechnical report prepared pursuant to Section 5.3000 indicates that a greater
oceanfront setback is required to protect the proposed building from an identified
coastal erosion hazard.

 Figure 9: Construction Setback Line (north of Surf Pines to Columbia River South Jetty):

Clatsop County Land and Water III-16 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

Section 3.0160. Application of Building Heights to Ocean Front Lots
1) Building height restrictions applicable to ocean front lots are intended to apply to
property immediately in land of the ocean beach. Partitions or property line
adjustments may not be used to change an ocean front lot into a non-ocean front
lot.
Section 3.0170. Height Limitations for Non-habitable and Non-storage Structures
1) Flag poles: No flag poles shall be greater than six inches in diameter and shall
not exceed the maximum height allowed by the zone in which it is located by
more than 10 feet. All such poles shall be placed so as to neither obstruct nor
obscure the adjacent property owner's lines of vision. Such poles shall not
display more than two flags at any one time.
2) Windmills: Such structures shall not be any higher than 35 feet above either the
average surrounding tree line or the highest structure within 250 feet of the
Figure 10: Calculating Oceanfront Setback

Clatsop County Land and Water III-17 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
windmill site. If no structure exists within 250 feet of the site of the windmill, the
windmill shall not exceed 70 feet in height. A windmill shall be placed such that
minimal impact on views from adjacent lots result. All such structures shall be
subject to a Type II application procedure.

Section 3.0180. Accessory Dwelling Units and Guesthouses. [ORD. 23-03] [ORD.
25-02]
Only one Accessory Dwelling Unit or one Guesthouse is permitted per lot or parcel
under this section. [ORD. 23-03]
1) The following standards shall apply to all accessory dwelling units (ADUs) within
the AC-RCR, RC-MFR and RCR zones. [ORD. 23-03]
(A) The lot or parcel shall be served by a State approved sanitary sewer.
(B) The lot or parcel must have a primary dwelling unit.
(C) The parcel shall not have more than one ADU or guesthouse (see
“Guesthouse”)
(D) ADUs shall comply with lot coverage and setback requirements applicable
to the zone.
(E) The ADU may be created through conversion of an existing structure, or
construction of a new structure that is either attached to the primary
dwelling or detached.
(F) The maximum gross habitable floor area (GHFA) of the ADU is 900
square feet. The floor area of any garage shall not be included in the total
GHFA. [ORD. 23-03]
2) The following standards shall apply to all accessory dwelling units (ADUs) on
rural residential lands. [ORD.23-03] [ORD. 25-16]
(A) The lot or parcel is not located within an area designated as an urban
reserve as defined in ORS 195.137.
(B) The lot or parcel is at least two acres in size.
(C) The parcel must have a primary dwelling unit. A maximum of one ADU is
permitted per lot or parcel. ADUs shall not be permitted in conjunction with
a duplex or multi-unit dwelling.
(D) The parcel shall not have more than one ADU or guesthouse (see
“Guesthouse”).
(E) ADUs shall not be permitted in conjunction with a duplex or multi-unit
dwelling.
(F) The primary dwelling on the lot or parcel has been declared a nuisance
and is not subject to any pending action under ORS 195.550 to 195.600.
(G) The primary dwelling is not subject to any code violations under Clatsop
County Code or the Clatsop County Land and Water Development and
Use Code.
(H) The accessory dwelling unit will comply with all applicable laws and
regulations relating to sanitation and wastewater disposal and treatment.
(I) The accessory dwelling unit will comply with all applicable laws and
regulations relating to water supply and quantity.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-18 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
(J) The accessory dwelling unit will be located no farther than 100 feet from
the primary dwelling. This distance shall be measured from the closest
portion of the exterior wall of both structures, not including roof structures
such as eaves, gutters, canopies, and other similar architectural features.
(K) ADUs shall comply with setback requirements applicable to the parcel
containing the primary dwelling, including resource zone setbacks [ORD.
24-01].
(L) The ADU may be created through conversion of an existing structure, or
construction of a new structure that is either attached to the primary
dwelling or detached.
(M) The maximum gross habitable floor area (GHFA) of the ADU is 900
square feet. The floor area of any garage, utility rooms, or areas below the
average level of the adjoining ground shall not be included in the total
GHFA.
(N) No portion of the lot or parcel is within a designated area of critical state
concern.
(O) The lot or parcel and ADU are served by a fire protection service provider
with professionals who have received training and certifications described
in ORS 181A.410.
(P) The accessory dwelling unit has adequate access for firefighting
equipment, safe evacuation and staged evacuation areas.
(Q) Accessory dwelling units allowed under this section shall not be used for
vacation occupancy, as defined in ORS 90.100. A restrictive covenant
shall be recorded which prohibits the ADU from being used for vacation
occupancy.
(R) The County shall not approve a subdivision, partition, or other division of
the lot or parcel that would place the primary dwelling on a different lot or
parcel than the accessory dwelling unit. [ORD. 23-03]
3) Accessory dwelling units on parcels containing a historic home as defined in
Section 1.0500, shall comply with the following development standards. [ORD.
23-03] [ORD. 25-16]
(A) The lot or parcel is not located within an urban reserve as defined by ORS
195.137.
(B) The lot or parcel is at least two acres in size.
(C) A historic home is sited on the lot or parcel.
(D) The historic home is converted to an accessory dwelling unit within one
year of the date a certificate of occupancy is issued for the new single-unit
dwelling.
(E) The accessory dwelling unit complies with all applicable laws and
regulations relating to sanitation and wastewater disposal and treatment.
(F) The accessory dwelling unit complies with all applicable laws and
regulations relating to water supply.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-19 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
(G) The lot or parcel shall not be subdivided, partitioned or otherwise divided
so that the new single-unit dwelling is situated on a different lot or parcel
from the accessory dwelling unit.
(H) The accessory dwelling unit may not be altered, renovated or remodeled
so that the square footage of the accessory dwelling unit is more than
120% of the historic home’s square footage at the time construction of the
new single-unit dwelling commenced.
(I) The accessory dwelling unit may not be rebuilt if the structure is lost to fire
unless permitted under the provisions of 3.0180(B).
(J) A second accessory dwelling unit may not be constructed on the same lot
or parcel.
(K) The accessory dwelling unit shall not be used as a short-term rental. The
property owner shall record a restrictive covenant that prohibits the ADU
from being used for vacation occupancy, as defined in ORS 90.100.
[ORD. 23-03]
4) The following standards shall apply to all guesthouses. [ORD.23-03]
(A) The maximum gross habitable floor area (GHFA) is 900 square feet. The
floor area of any garage, utility rooms, or areas below the average level of
the adjoining ground shall not be included in the total GHFA.
(B) Metering devices shall not be permitted.
(C) Cooking Facilities shall not be permitted. (See definition of “Cooking
Facilities” in Section 1.0500)
(D) A maximum of one guesthouse is permitted per lot or parcel and must
accompany a primary residence. [ORD. 23-03]
Section 3.0190. Temporary Hardship Dwelling [ORD. 25-02]
As used in this section, “hardship” means a medical hardship or hardship for the care of
an aged or infirm person or persons. “Hardship” also includes a natural hazard event
that has destroyed homes, caused residential evacuations, or both, and resulted in an
Executive Order issued by the Governor declaring an emergency for all or parts of
Oregon pursuant to ORS 401.165. A temporary residence approved under this section
is not eligible for preplacement under ORS 215.283(1)(p).
1. A temporary medical hardship dwelling, consisting of either one manufactured
dwelling or one recreational vehicle, or the temporary residential use of an
existing building, may be allowed on the same parcel as an existing dwelling,
subject to the following conditions:
(A) The caregiver is providing care for an existing resident on the property or
the relative of an existing resident.  “Relative” shall be defined as “spouse,
child, parent, stepparent, grandchild, grandparent, step-grandparent,
sibling, stepsibling, niece, nephew or first cousin.”
(B) The applicant shall submit certification from a physician verifying the
hardship of the existing resident or relative of the resident.
(C) The manufactured dwelling, recreational vehicle, or existing building shall
be connected to the existing septic system and water supply on the

Clatsop County Land and Water III-20 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
property. No new systems or hookups may be installed.
2. For hardships based on a natural hazard event, the temporary residence is
limited to a recreational vehicle or the temporary residential use of an existing
building. A temporary natural hazard event hardship dwelling will not force a
significant change in accepted farm or forest practices on surrounding land or
significantly increase the cost of accepted farm or forest practices if the following
criteria are met:
(A) The temporary hardship dwelling is located within an existing building; or
(B) The recreational vehicle is located within 100 feet of the primary
residence; or
(C) The temporary hardship dwelling is located more than 250 feet from
adjacent lands planned and zoned for resource use under Goal 3:
Agricultural Lands, Goal 4: Forest Lands, or both.
3. A recreational vehicle used as a temporary hardship dwelling shall:
(A) be fully licensed and ready for highway use;
(B) remain on its wheels or jacking system;
(C) be attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security
devices, and
(D) have no permanently attached additions.
4. A permit for a temporary hardship dwelling is valid for two years. No public notice
is required for renewals. The renewal application shall include verification that the
temporary hardship still exists.
5. The temporary hardship dwelling shall be vacated and disconnected from all
utilities within 90 days from the time the hardship has ended.
6. The temporary hardship dwelling must meet all other applicable standards in the
zone.

SECTION 3.0200. COTTAGE CLUSTER DEVELOPMENTS [ORD. 24-14]
1) Maximum building footprint: 900 SF
2) Minimum separation between structures: 10’ or as required by the applicable
building codes
3) Minimum number of cottages per courtyard: 4
4) Maximum number of cottages per courtyard: 8
5) Minimum common courtyard area: 150 SF/unit
6) Each group of up to 8 cottage clusters must have its own common courtyard.
7) Parking areas shall be separate from the common courtyard.

SECTION 3.0210. EMPLOYEE HOUSING [ORD. 24-14]
1) Housing must be located on the same parcel as the business; or
2) Housing may be located on a separate commercially-zoned parcel within 1,000
feet of the parcel where the business is located, if the employer provides transit
to and from the business where the employees are employed.
3) Employee housing shall be subordinate to the primary commercial use of the
property.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-21 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
4) Employee housing shall not be used as short-term rentals.
SECTION 3.1000. NON-CONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES
Section 3.1010. Purpose
The purpose of the non-conforming uses and structures provisions are to establish
standards and procedures regulating the continuation, improvement and replacement of
structures and uses which do not comply with this ordinance.
Section 3.1020. Definitions.
The following definitions are applicable to the provisions of Section 3.1000, Non-
conforming Uses and Structures.
ABANDONMENT: A non-conforming use shall be considered abandoned when the non-
conforming use is discontinued for a period of one year. When a non-conforming use is
determined to be abandoned, subsequent use of the property shall conform to this
Ordinance. Abandonment does not apply to circumstances such as fire or other
catastrophes outside of the owner’s control.

Non-conforming uses are not considered interrupted or abandoned for any period while
a federal, state or local emergency order temporarily limits or prohibits the use or the
restoration or replacement of the use. [ORD. 24-05]
ALTERATION. A change to a structure, not involving enlargement of the external
dimensions of the structure.
EXPANSION. Any increase in any external dimension of a Non-conforming structure.
FLOATING RECREATIONAL CABIN: A moored floating structure used wholly or in part
as a dwelling, not physically connected to any upland utility services except electricity,
and is used only periodically or seasonally.
FLOATING RESIDENCE: A dwelling unit which floats on a water body and is designed
such that it does not come into contact with land except by ramp. Floating residences
may also be referred to as floating homes or houseboats. A floating residence is not
equivalent to a floating recreational cabin or other similar recreational structure
designed for temporary use. It is also not equivalent to a boathouse, designed for
storage of boats.
INTERRUPTION: The discontinuance of any non-conforming use for a period of less
than one year. [ORD. 24-05]
LAWFULLY MOORED: To be lawfully moored, a floating recreational cabin or floating
residence must be constructed upon or attached to piling or a dock by the owner or with
the permission of the owner or lawful lessee of the piling or dock. If moored to piling or a
dock, such piling or dock must have been installed or constructed and be maintained in
compliance with all Federal, State and County requirements. If the floating recreational

Clatsop County Land and Water III-22 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
cabin or floating residence is attached to the shore, such attachment must also be by or
with the permission of the owner or lawful lessee of the area of attachment.
NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE: A building or structure that does not conform to
one or more standards of the zoning district in which it is located, but which legally
existed at the time the applicable section(s) of the zoning district took effect. [ORD. 24-
05]
NON-CONFORMING USE: A use which does not conform to the use regulations of the
zoning district in which it is located, but which lawfully occupied a building or land at the
time the applicable use regulation took effect. [ORD. 24-05]
REAL MARKET VALUE: The value indicated in the Clatsop County Assessor’s records
for an improvement or the value determined by an independent licensed appraiser.
[ORD. 24-05]
Section 3.1030. Continuance
1) A non-conforming use legally established prior to the adoption date of this
Ordinance may be continued at the level of use (e.g., hours of operation) existing
on the date that the use became non-conforming.
2) Under a Type I procedure, the County shall verify whether a use is a valid non-
conforming use consistent with the standards in Section 3.1000 and ORS
215.130. An application to verify a non-conforming use shall demonstrate all of
the following:
(A) The non-conforming use was lawfully established on or before the
effective date of the zoning change that prohibited the use;
(B) The non-conforming use has continued without abandonment or
interruption for the 10-year period immediately preceding the date of
application or the period from the date of the ordinance change prohibiting
the use, whichever is less: and
(C) Any alterations to the nature and extent of the non-conforming use were
done in compliance with the applicable standards in Section 3.1000.
(D) The applicant shall bear the burden of proof for establishing that the
structure or use was lawfully established.
(E) The applicant shall bear the burden of proof for establishing the level of
use that existed at the time the use became non-conforming. [ORD.24-05]
3) A non-conforming structure may continue within the building dimensions (height,
width and length) in existence on the date that the structure became non-
conforming. Additions, alterations and expansions to a non-conforming structure
shall not increase the non-conformity of the structure. [ORD. 24-05]

Section 3.1040. Abandonment or Interruption of Use
If a non-conforming use is discontinued for a period of one year, the non-conforming
use shall be considered abandoned. Subsequent use of the property shall conform to
this Ordinance.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-23 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

Non-conforming uses are not considered interrupted or abandoned for any period while
a federal, state or local emergency order temporarily limits or prohibits the use or the
restoration or replacement of the use. [ORD. 23-02]

For purposes of determining whether abandonment or interruption has occurred, the
following shall apply: [ORD. 24-05]

1) Abandonment or interruption may be caused by ceasing the use or by changing
the nature of the use for 365 continuous days, or longer. [ORD. 24-05]
Section 3.1050. Alteration [ORD. 24-05]
1) Through Type I procedures, alterations shall be permitted to a non-conforming
structure, or to a structure containing a non-conforming use; and
(A) Alteration of any such structure or use shall be permitted when necessary
to comply with any lawful requirement for alteration in the structure or use.
(B) Except as provided in ORS 215.215, the County shall not place conditions
upon the continuation or alteration of a use described under this
subsection when necessary to comply with state or local health or safety
requirements, or to maintain in good repair the existing structure
associated with the use.
(C) A change of ownership or occupancy shall be permitted.
2) If in a three-year period, alterations to a Non-conforming structure, or to a
structure devoted to a Non-conforming use exceeds 75% of the market value of
the structure, as indicated by the records of the County Assessor, the structure
shall be brought into conformance with the requirements of the Ordinance. [Ord
#17-02]
Section 3.1060. Expansion [ORD. 24-05]
1) Non-conforming structures containing a use permitted in the underlying zone
may be expanded through a Type I procedure. The expansion of such a structure
shall not increase the non-conformity of the structure and shall be in
conformance with the requirements of this Ordinance. [ORD. 24-05]
2) For non-conforming structures dedicated to a residential use and located in a
zone not intended for residential uses, an expansion may be permitted through a
Type I procedure. The expansion of such a structure shall not increase the noon-
conformity of the structure and shall be in conformance with the requirements of
this Ordinance, including setbacks, lot coverage, and other development
standards as required by code. [ORD. 24-05]
3) An expansion of a non-conforming use, or a change in the characteristics of a
non-conforming use,(i.e. hours of operation or levels of service provided) may be
approved, pursuant to a Type II procedure, where the following standards are
met: [ORD. 24-05]
(A) The floor area of a building(s) shall not be increased by more than 20%.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-24 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
(B) The land area covered by structures shall not be increased by more than
10%.
(C) The proposed expansion, or proposed change in characteristics of the use
will have no greater adverse impact on neighboring areas than the existing
use, considering:
1. Comparison of the following factors:
(a) Noise, vibration, dust, odor, fume, glare, or smoke
detectable at the property line.
(b) Numbers and kinds of vehicular trips to the site.
(c) Amount and nature of outside storage, loading and parking.
(d) Visual impact.
(e) Hours of operation.
(f) Effect on existing vegetation.
(g) Effect on water drainage and water quality.
(h) Service or other benefit to the area.
(i) Other factors relating to conflicts or incompatibility with the
character or needs of the area.
2. The character and history of the use and of development in the
surrounding area.
3. An approval may be conditioned to mitigate any potential adverse
impacts that have been identified by the review body. [ORD. 24-05]
Section 3.1070. Changes to a Non-conforming Use [ORD. 24-05]
1) A non-conforming use may only be changed to that of a conforming use. Where
such a change is made, the use shall not thereafter be changed back to a non-
conforming use. [ORD. 24-05]
Section 3.1080. Replacement and Damage [ORD. 24-05]
1) Non-conforming structures and uses.
(A) If a non-conforming structure or a structure containing a non-conforming
use is damaged or destroyed by fire, natural disaster or other catastrophe
outside of the owner’s control, it may be reconstructed in conformance
with the dimensional standards of the building prior to its destruction; and
i. A building permit for its reconstruction shall be obtained within three
years of the date of the damage.
ii. If a building permit is not obtained within three years, the
reconstruction shall be in conformance with the current
requirements of this Ordinance. However, by a Type I procedure,
the Community Development Director may grant a one-year
extension of the three-year period. Requests to extend the three-
year period must be submitted prior to the expiration of the three-
year period, provided in writing, and shall explain why the extension
is necessary and how the extension will be used to complete the
project. [ORD. 24-05]

Clatsop County Land and Water III-25 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
(B) If a non-conforming structure or a structure devoted to a non-conforming
use is damaged, destroyed or demolished by an action of the property
owner or his authorized agent, to an extent amounting to 75% or more of
its real market value, it shall be reconstructed in conformance with the
current requirements of this Ordinance, unless approval of a variance is
obtained as described in LAWDUC Section 2.8000. [ORD. 24-05]
(C) If a non-conforming structure or a structure devoted to a non-conforming
use is damaged by an action of the property owner or his authorized
agent, to an extent amounting to less than 75% of its real market value, it
may be reconstructed in conformance with the dimensional standards of
the building prior to its destruction; and
i. A building permit for its reconstruction shall be obtained within three
years of the date of the damage, destruction or demolition.
ii. If a building permit is not obtained within three years, the
reconstruction shall be in conformance with the current
requirements of this Ordinance. However, by a Type I procedure,
the Community Development Director may grant a one-year
extension of the three-year period. Requests to extend the three-
year period must be submitted prior to the expiration of the three-
year period, provided  in writing, and shall explain why the
extension is necessary and how the extension will be used to
complete the project. [ORD. 24-05]
(D) The percentage of real market value loss shall be based on the real
market value lost to damages compared to the real market value of the
entire structure or building. Real market value shall be the value
determined by the records of the County Assessor or the value
determined by an independent licensed appraiser. [ORD. 24-05]
(E) Non-conforming mobile home parks destroyed by natural disaster may be
replaced subject to Section 3.4095. [ORD. 23-02]
Section 3.1090. Completion [ORD. 24-05]
A development that is lawfully under construction on the effective date of an ordinance
that makes that use or structure Non-conforming may be completed. The use or
structure may be used for the purpose for which it was designed, arranged or intended.
Section 3.1100. Compliance with Other Requirements
Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, alteration of a Non-conforming use or a
Non- conforming structure shall be allowed if necessary to comply with state or local
health or safety requirements.
SECTION 3.2000. EROSION CONTROL AND GRADING REVIEW STANDARDS
[ORD. 25-02]
Section 3.2010. Purpose

Clatsop County Land and Water III-26 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
The objective of this section is to manage development activities including clearing,
grading, excavation and filling of the land, which can lead to soil erosion and the
sedimentation of watercourses, wetlands, riparian areas, public and private roadways.
The intent of this section is to protect the water quality of surface water, improve fish
habitat, and preserve top soil by developing and implementing standards to help reduce
soil erosion related to land disturbing activities. In addition, these standards are to serve
as guidelines to educate the public on steps to take to reduce soil erosion.
Section 3.2020. Definitions
Certain terms used herein are defined below for the purposes of Section 3.2000.
CLEARING: Any development activity that removes vegetative ground cover.
EROSION/ SOIL EROSION:
1) The wearing away of the land surface by running water, wind, ice, or other
geologic agents, including such processes as gravitational creep.
2) Detachment and movement of soil or rock fragments by water, wind, ice, or
gravity.

EXCAVATION: Any act by which organic matter, earth, sand, gravel, rock, or any other
materials are cut into, dug, uncovered, removed, displaced, relocated, or bulldozed.
FILL: Any human activity by which earth, sand, gravel, rock, or any other materials are
deposited, placed, replaced, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported or moved to a new
location, including the conditions resulting therefrom.
GRADING: Excavation or fill or any combination thereof, including the conditions
resulting from any excavation or fill such as clearing and stripping.
LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY: Any development activity which removes, disturbs or
covers existing vegetative ground cover by physical means including, but not limited to,
clearing, grading, stripping, excavation, or fill.
ROADWAY: All travel surfaces used for ingress and egress of a site, recorded
easements for access purposes or platted roads, developed or undeveloped; including
but not limited to, driveways, easements, access points, private roads, public roads, and
County roads.
ROUTINE MAINTENANCE: Actions taken on a periodic basis to repair and/or improve
the function of existing roadways including, but not limited to, patching, paving, grading
of existing road surfaces and the addition of gravel, placement or replacement of signs,
traffic delineators or site posts, and repair or replacement of existing guardrails. The
construction of new roadways or improvements to existing roadways including, but not
limited to, the creation of new travel lanes, turn lanes, or deceleration lanes, or the

Clatsop County Land and Water III-27 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
addition of new pull-outs, roadside drainage ditches or guardrails; do not constitute
routine maintenance.
SEDIMENTATION: The depositing of solid material, both mineral and organic, that is in
suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by air, water,
or gravity.
STRIPPING: Any activity that removes the vegetative surface cover including tree
removal, clearing, and storage or removal of top soil.
WATERCOURSE: Any established channel, bed or drainage way where water draining
from a land area collects and/or flows on the ground surface including, but not limited to,
bays, lakes, rivers, streams, wetlands, channels, gullies and other natural drainage
ways.
Section 3.2030. Erosion Control Plan and Grading Review [ORD. 25-02]
1) Grading Review shall be required for all land disturbing activities that meet the
following thresholds:
(A) Disturbance on steep slopes (i.e., with a 20% or greater incline)
(B) Proposed slopes greater than 3:1 and where the slopes will be greater
than 6 feet in height
(C) Construction of retaining walls greater than 30 inches in height
(D) All commercial and industrial developments
(E) Removal or fill greater than 30 cubic yards, including all fill that is
imported, removed and/or relocated on the site
(F) Grading activities that will disturb more than 3,000 square feet of area
(G) Any new, realigned or relocated road or culvert of any proposed
development
(H) Ground disturbance in conjunction with a road approach or perform
operations permit
(I) Development that will occur within:
i. 100 feet of a wellhead
ii. 50 feet of a stream, river, lake or other water body
iii. 50 feet of mapped or known wetlands
iv. 10 feet of a primary or reserve septic drain field
2) Information Required for Grading Review: An application for Grading Review
shall contain the following information:
(A) Site Map, drawn to scale and showing the location of the following:
i. The development site in relation to the property boundaries
ii. All internal or adjacent roadways and access easement
iii. All existing and proposed structures greater than 200 square feet
iv. Lakes, rivers, streams, wetlands, channels, ditches or other
watercourses on or near the development site and the direction of
surface water flow
v. North arrow

Clatsop County Land and Water III-28 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
(B) Erosion Control Plan, drawn to scale and showing the following
information:
i. The location of existing vegetation adjacent to any watercourse.
ii. Areas where vegetative cover will be retained and the type and
location of measures taken to protect vegetation from damage.
iii. Areas where vegetative cover will be removed and the location of
temporary and permanent erosion control measures to be used.
Examples of erosion control measures include, but not limited to:
silt fencing, straw bales, construction entrances, inlet protection,
graveling, mulching, seeding, and sodding.
iv. North arrow
v. Indication of slope steepness, by degree, percentage or ratio,
including the grade of surface water flow.
vi. The general slope or terrain characteristics of adjacent property.
vii. Location of the construction access driveway(s) and vehicle parking
area(s).
viii. Location of soil stockpiles.
ix. Location of existing and proposed buildings, including locations of
downspouts.
(C) Erosion Control Statement containing the following information:
1. A schedule of land disturbance activities, project phasing and the
time frame for placement of both temporary and permanent erosion
and sediment control measures.
ii. The name, address, email address and phone number of the
person(s) responsible for placement, inspection and maintenance
of the temporary and permanent erosion control measures.
iii. A statement signed by the property owner and building contractor/
developer certifying that any land clearing, construction, or
development involving the movement of earth shall conform to the
Erosion Control Plan as approved by the County Engineer.
3) Grading Permit Review and Approval: The County Engineer, or designee, shall
review each Grading Review application to ensure that the requirements of
Section 3.2040 have been met. Applicants are responsible for ensuring that the
erosion control plan is implemented and maintained before, during and after
completion of the development activity.
4) An Erosion Control Plan shall be required for all activities that require a
development permit, even if a grading review is not required. The Erosion Control
Plan shall contain the same information required in subsection (B), above.
Section 3.2040. Design and Operation Standards and Requirements [ORD. 25-02]
All land disturbing activities which are subject to Grading Review under Section
3.2030(1) shall comply with the applicable standards and requirements in this section.
1) Development Site Grading Requirements
(A) For the purposes of this section, slopes are determined by measuring the

Clatsop County Land and Water III-29 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
average slope from the highest to lowest point of the property.
(B) The slope of cut surfaces shall be no steeper than one unit vertical in two
units horizontal (50% slope) unless the applicant furnishes a soils
engineering or engineering geology report stating that a cut at a steeper
slope will be stable and not create a hazard to public or private property.
(C) Fills shall conform to the provisions of this section unless otherwise
recommended in an approved soils report. These provisions may be
waived for fills not intended to support structures.
i. Fill slopes shall not be constructed on natural slopes steeper than
one unit vertical in two units horizontal (50% slope). The ground
surface shall be prepared to receive fill by removing vegetation,
noncomplying fill, topsoil, and other unsuitable materials.
ii. Where existing slopes are steeper than one unit vertical in five units
horizontal (20% slope) and the height is greater than five feet, fills
shall be benched into sound bedrock or other competent material
as determined by a soils engineer. The bench under the toe of a fill
on these slopes shall be at least 10 feet wide.
iii. The slope of fill surfaces shall be no steeper than is safe for the
intended use and shall be no steeper than one unit vertical in two
units horizontal.
(D) Cut and fill slopes shall be set back from site boundaries in accordance
with this section. Setback dimensions shall be horizontal distances
measured perpendicular to the site boundary.
i. The top of cut slopes shall not be made nearer to a site boundary
line than one-fifth the vertical height of cut with a minimum of two
feet and a maximum required setback of 10 feet.
ii. The toe of fill slope shall not be made nearer to the site boundary
line than one half the height of the slope with a minimum of two feet
and a maximum required setback of 20 feet.
(E) All retaining walls greater than 48 inches in height shall be designed by a
registered professional engineer in the State of Oregon. Stamped
engineered plans and calculations shall be submitted with the grading permit
application.
(F) As an alternative to the standards listed above, an applicant my submit a
report by a qualified engineer or engineering geologist to demonstrate that
the intent of this section has been satisfied. The County Engineer or
designee shall use the report to establish setbacks and conditions of
approval to ensure that the work will comply with the intent of this section.
2) Development Site Erosion Control Requirements
(A) It is the responsibility of the property owner, their contractor or their agent
such to implement and maintain the erosion control measures identified in
the approved Grading Review. Such measures shall be used to prevent
movement of soil off the site and/or into a watercourse or roadway. These
actions include, but are not limited to:

Clatsop County Land and Water III-30 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
1. All areas adjacent to waterbodies shall have functioning erosion
protection measures in place prior to land disturbing activities on
the site.
ii. All on-site erosion control measures shall be constructed and
functional in accordance with the time schedule approved in the
Erosion Control Plan and Erosion Control Statement.
iii. All required local, state and federal permits and approvals shall be
obtained prior to any land disturbance activity on the site. Copies of
applicable state and federal permits shall be provided to the
Community Development Department prior to beginning any land
disturbance activities on the site.
3) Erosion Control Standards: The following standards shall apply in order to
prevent the movement of soil off of the site.
(A) Erosion control measures shall be designed and maintained to ensure on-
site activities do not impact other properties.
(B) Vegetated buffers shall be designed to be of equal width to the uphill
disturbed construction area draining into it. Vegetation along a
watercourse shall be subject to the standards in Section 6.2000.
(C) Permanent soil stabilization measures shall be completed within 30 days
after completion of construction or within 30 days after development
activity ceases on the site.
(D) All temporary erosion and sediment control measures and/or materials
shall be removed within 30 days after final site stabilization is achieved
with permanent soil stabilization measures. Trapped sediment and other
disturbed soils resulting from temporary sediment control measures shall
be permanently stabilized to prevent further erosion and sedimentation.
(E) Filter barriers, including filter fences, straw bales, or equivalent control
measures shall be correctly installed to control off-site runoff, as specified
in the “Clatsop County Erosion Control Guidance” document, as prepared
by the Columbia River Estuary Study Taskforce (CREST, 2021).
(F) Storm sewer inlets and culverts shall be protected by sediment traps or
filter barriers.
(G) Entry roads shall be constructed of gravel or equivalent surface approved
by the County Engineer. The County Engineer shall determine whether
entrance roads are of sufficient length, depth and width to prevent mud,
dirt or other sediment from being tracked onto roadways. Any sediment
reaching a roadway shall be removed by shoveling or street cleaning
before the end of each workday and transported to a controlled sediment
deposit area. Sediment flushing is prohibited.
(H) No vegetation shall be removed unless it was identified for removal in the
approved Grading Review.
(I) Site clearing shall not occur prior to the land disturbance schedule
identified in the approved Grading Review.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-31 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
(J) Disturbed areas shall be stabilized with temporary and/or permanent
measures as specified in the approved Erosion Control Plan and Erosion
Control Statement, following the end of active disturbance or
redisturbance.
(K) Appropriate temporary stabilization measures include seeding, mulching,
sodding, and/or non-vegetative measures such as sediment blankets.
(L) Appropriate permanent stabilization measures include seeding, mulching
combined with seeding, sodding, landscaping, and non-vegetative
measures such as paving, gravel, etc. In dune areas, planting of dune
grass may be required.
(M) Areas having slopes greater than 12 percent shall be stabilized with
mulch, sod, mat or blanket in combination with seeding, or equivalent.
(N) Roadway improvement projects resulting in disturbed slopes steeper than
2:1 shall be stabilized with sod, mat or sediment blanket in conjunction
with seeding, or equivalent.
(O) Soil storage piles containing more than 10 cubic yards of material shall be
covered with a sediment blanket, impervious cover, or shall incorporate
hay or straw into the surface of the soil pile to stabilize it. The pile shall not
be placed in a location with a downslope grade to a watercourse, unless
the pile is at least 50 feet from the watercourse or unless the pile is
contained by a sediment barrier at the toe of the slope.
(P) Land disturbance activities in riparian areas shall comply with the
applicable standards in Sections 5.1000, 5.4100, 6.4220, 6.4250 and/or
6.5000, unless the County Engineer, in conjunction with the other
appropriate state, federal and local agencies, determines that the
development requires the disturbance in the proposed location. If
disturbance activities are unavoidable, the following requirements shall be
met:
i. Construction activity shall not occur in the stream channel, other
adjacent water body and/or riparian area unless authorized by the
County Engineer and state and federal agencies having jurisdiction
over the water body or riparian area. When construction crossings
are necessary, additional state, federal and/or local permits may be
required. The applicant shall demonstrate compliance with all
applicable regulations and obtain all applicable permits for the
project, prior to any land disturbing activity on the site.
ii. The time and area of disturbance of stream channels and riparian
areas shall adhere to those approved by the County Engineer and
appropriate state and federal agencies. Instream work shall follow
Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife (ODFW) guidelines for
timing of in-water work to protect fish and wildlife resources. An
ODFW fish biologist shall be consulted and the applicant shall
implement any recommendations from ODFW regarding erosion
control and streambank restabilization, prior to the use of fords

Clatsop County Land and Water III-32 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
across fish bearing streams. The stream channel, including bed
and banks, shall be restabilized within 24 hours after channel
disturbance is completed, interrupted or stopped.
4) Guidance Adopted by Reference: The standards and specifications contained in
the “Clatsop County Erosion Control Guidance” document prepared by the
Columbia River Estuary Study Taskforce (CREST, 2021) cited in Section 3.2040
is hereby incorporated into this section and made a part hereof by reference. The
document shall be used for the purpose of delineating procedures and methods
of installation, maintenance and operation of erosion and sediment control
measures included in approved Erosion Control Plans. In the event of a conflict
between the provisions of said guidance and this ordinance, the ordinance shall
govern.
5) Maintenance of Control Measures: All soil erosion and sediment control
measures necessary to meet the requirements of this ordinance shall be
maintained to ensure proper function. Maintenance shall include, but not be
limited to, the following standards:
(A) Erosion control and prevention measures shall be inspected periodically,
with a frequency of no less than every 7 days; and
(B) Erosion control and prevention measures shall be inspected every 24
hours during storm events to ensure the measures are functioning
properly; and
(C) Any sediment build-up behind sediment barriers shall be removed and the
sediment shall be placed in a controlled sediment area; and
(D) Erosion and sediment control and prevention measures shall be repaired
or replaced as frequently as necessary to ensure optimal functioning of
the measures.
6) Amendments of Plans: Amendments to an approved Erosion Control Plan shall
be submitted to the Community Development Department and shall be
processed in the same manner as the original plan.
7) Responsibility:
(A) It will be the responsibility of the applicant to comply with the approved
Erosion Control Plan.
(B) The applicant shall be responsible for damage to persons or property.

SECTION 3.3000. CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT [ORD. 25-02]

Section 3.3010. Purpose

Clatsop County Land and Water III-33 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
The purpose of this section is to establish a process and standards through which
cluster developments are allowed in appropriate rural residential zones and to preserve
lands deemed appropriate for permanent open space. Cluster developments allow an
alternative to traditional lot sizes and subdivision design. [ORD. 25-02]
Section 3.3020. Procedures for Cluster Development [ORD. 25-02]
Cluster developments are allowed in the specific rural residential and rural community
zones identified in Article 4. A cluster development shall comply with the procedures
and standards below.
1) A pre-application meeting shall be required prior to an application being
submitted.
2) Cluster developments shall be created by either recording an approved partition
plat or subdivision plat.
3) For each cluster development approved under these regulations, the Community
Development Director or designee shall include a written finding in the Notice of
Decision addressing the following:
(A) the number of lots or parcels allowed on the original parcel,
(B) a legal description of the original parcel,
(C) the number of lots or parcels resulting from the proposed partition, and
(D) the number of lots or parcels, if any, that could be created in the future if
the land were to be further partitioned or subdivided.
Section 3.3030. Cluster Development Standards [ORD. 25-02]
1) Standards for all Cluster Development: The following requirements apply to all
cluster development:
(A) The original parcel, lot, or tract of land to be developed shall be at least 4
acres in size. Land divided by a road shall be considered contiguous. The
area of the road shall be included in the total area of the original parcel.
(B) The total number of residential units in the proposed cluster development
shall not exceed the total number of dwelling units that would be allowed
Figure 11: Traditional Subdivision vs. Cluster Development (Image: American Planning
Association)

Clatsop County Land and Water III-34 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
on the original parcel. This requirement does not apply to parcels within
the Clatsop Plains Planning Area where density transfers are permitted.
(C) No commercial or industrial uses shall be allowed.
(D) The cluster development shall provide permanent open space that meets
the requirements below:
i. A minimum of 30% of the cluster development shall be designated
as permanent open space.
ii. Permanent open space shall not include public or private rights-of-
way.
iii. Permanent open space shall include wetlands, steep dunes, stream
and resource zone buffers, water bodies, deflation plains, hazard
areas, archaeological and historic sites, and other environmentally
sensitive areas within the development if those features are
present.
iv. The owner shall record a non-revocable deed restriction with the
Clatsop County Clerk that prohibits the construction of a residential
dwelling on the designated open space until such time as the open
space is added into an urban growth boundary or the County’s
zoning requirements are changed.
2) Additional Standards for Cluster Developments on Rural Residential Lands
Outside the Clatsop Plains: The following standards apply to all cluster
developments on rural residential lands outside the Clatsop Plains Planning
Area. These standards are in addition to the standards in Section 3.3030(1).
(A) The number of new dwellings units to be clustered shall not exceed 10;
(B) The minimum size for new lots or shall be two acres;
(C) The development shall not be served by a new community sewer system
or by an extension of an existing sewer system, unless the new service or
extension is authorized under OAR 660-011-0060;
3) Additional Standards for Cluster Developments in the Clatsop Plains
Planning Area
(A) Vegetated buffers shall be provided along all property lines adjacent to
arterial and collector roads.
(B) Permanent open space shall physically align with and connect to
permanent open space on abutting properties. Examples of how
permanent open space can by physically aligned with and connect to
permanent open space on abutting properties include: continuously
following ridge tops, deflation plains or shorelands.
(C) Streams and drainages which form a system of common open space shall
be preserved.
(D) Density transfer are prohibited in the North Clatsop Plains Sub-Area, per
Ordinance 14-03.
4) Maintenance of Permanent Open Space and Common Facilities

Clatsop County Land and Water III-35 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
(A) All permanent open space areas and other common facilities, such as
streets, sidewalks and paths shall be owned and maintained by a non-
profit corporation organized under the laws of the State of Oregon.
(B) The non-profit corporation shall adopt articles of incorporation and by-
laws and adopt and impose a declaration of covenants and restrictions on
such common areas and facilities.
(C) The non-profit corporation shall be created in such a manner that owners
of property shall automatically be members and shall be subject to
assessment levies to maintain said areas and facilities for the purposes
intended.
(D) The period of existence of such associations shall not be less than 20
years, and it shall continue thereafter until a majority vote of the members
shall terminate it.
Section 3.3050. Density Transfer Standards for the Clatsop Plains Planning Area
[ORD. 25-02]
1) Transfer of residential development rights between sites in the Clatsop Plains
Planning Area shall comply with the following:
(A) The applicant shall have a pre-application meeting with County staff to
discuss the proposed transfer.
(B) The density transfer application shall include the following information:
i. Sending Parcel Tax ID #
ii. Number of residential units permitted on the sending parcels
iii. Number of residential units to be transferred from the sending
parcel
iv. Zoning designation requested for the area on the sending parcel
being used for the density transfer
v. Receiving Parcel Tax ID #
vi. Number of residential units permitted on the receiving parcel prior
to the density transfer
vii. Number of total residential units that would be allowed on the
receiving parcel after the density transfer
(C) Density shall not be transferred to a receiving parcel in the North Clatsop
Plains Sub-Area, per Ordinance 14-03.
(D) The area of land on the sending parcel that will be used to calculate the
number of residential units to be transferred, shall be rezoned to one of
the following designations:
i. Open Space Parks and Recreation
ii. Natural Uplands
iii. Conservation Shorelands
iv. Natural Shorelands
The applicant shall file the rezoning request at the same time as the
density transfer request is submitted

Clatsop County Land and Water III-36 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
(E) Following final approval of a density transfer the applicant shall record
deed restrictions prohibiting any further development on the sending
parcel unless the entire sending parcel has been included within an urban
growth boundary.
(F) The Community Development Department shall maintain copies of all
deed restrictions.
(G) The density transferred from the sending parcel shall not exceed the
density allowed by the zoning designation of the sending parcel.
(H) If a receiving parcel is not immediately identified for the density transfer,
the unused density shall remain with the sending parcel. If ownership of
the sending parcel changes prior to the density being transferred to a
receiving parcel, the density shall remain with the sending parcel.
(I) If a receiving site is not immediately identified for the density transfer, the
applicant shall prepare a notarized affidavit identifying the sending site
and number of credits that have not been assigned.  This affidavit shall be
kept on file with the Community Development Department.
(J) Unused density transfer credits may be assigned at a later time using the
following process:
i. The owner of the sending parcel that contains the unused credits
shall notify the Community Development Department of the
proposed transfer. The notification shall include the following:
a. Sending parcel Tax ID #
b. Receiving parcel Tax ID #
c. Number of credits to be transferred
d. Number of unused credits remaining on the sending parcel
ii. The Community Development Department shall provide written
verification to the applicant that the unused credits are available for
the transfer and that the receiving site is in a location where density
transfers are allowed.
(K) Each new lot or parcel created through the use of a density transfer shall
have a minimum size of one acre. Density transfers shall only be used in
conjunction with an approved cluster development
2) The Community Development Department shall maintain a record of all sending
and receiving parcels.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-37 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
SECTION 3.4000. MANUFACTURED DWELLINGS AND PREFABRICATED
DWELLINGS [ORD. 25-02]
SECTION 3.4010. MANUFACTURED DWELLING PARK DEVELOPMENT [ORD. 25-
02]
A manufactured dwelling park shall be built to state standards in effect at the time of
construction and shall comply with the following additional standards.
Section 3.4020. Permitted Uses [ORD. 25-02]
No building, structure or land within the boundaries of a manufactured dwelling park
shall be used for any purpose except for the uses permitted below:
1) Manufactured dwellings and prefabricated dwellings for residential use.
Residential accessory uses, including, but not limited to, cabanas, ramadas,
patios, carports, or garages, and storage or washroom building are also
permitted as a Type I use.
2) Recreational vehicles for residential use, which are lawfully connected to water
and electrical supply systems and a sewage disposal system.
3) Private and public utilities.
4) Community recreation facilities, including swimming pools, for residents of the
park and guests only.
5) A manufactured dwelling park may have one residence for the use of a caretaker
or manager responsible for maintaining or operating the property.
6) Occupied, abandoned or unoccupied manufactured dwellings may be abated if
they constitute a menace to the public health, safety and welfare.
Section 3.4030. Development Standards [ORD. 25-02]
The following requirements shall apply to a new manufactured dwelling park or the
expansion of an existing manufactured dwelling park outside of an urban growth
boundary.
1) Minimum Park Size: 4 acres
2) Maximum Density: 8 manufactured dwellings per acre
3) Setbacks: All structures shall comply with the following setbacks from the
perimeter boundaries of the manufactured dwelling park:
(A) Abutting residential zones: 30 feet
(B) Abutting commercial or industrial zones: 15 feet
(C) Abutting a public or private road: 25 feet
(D) Accessory structures: 5 feet
(E) Exemptions: Fences and signs may be placed within required setbacks
4) Access to a Public Street - A manufactured dwelling park approved for 10 or
more units shall have direct access to a public road.
5) Service Buildings - Service buildings housing sanitation, laundry or recreational
facilities shall be permanent structures, complying with all applicable County and
State ordinances and statutes regulating building, electrical installations and
plumbing and sanitation systems.
6) Internal Vehicular Accessways: Internal vehicular accessways shall:

Clatsop County Land and Water III-38 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
(A) connect each manufactured dwelling space to a public or private street
(B) have a minimum width of 20 feet if no parking is allowed or a minimum
width of 30 feet if parking is allowed
(C) be paved with a crushed rock base and asphalt or concrete surfacing
7) Walkways: Walkways shall:
(A) be provided from each manufactured dwelling space to all service
buildings and recreational areas
(B) be at least 3 feet wide
(C) have a paved surface of concrete or asphalt
(D) In rural communities, walkways shall comply with the requirements of
Section 3.9560(4)(D)(1)
8) Stormwater Drainage: The manufactured dwelling park shall provide
stormwater drainage facilities consistent with the requirements of Section
3.9720(3).
9) Sewers: An existing sewer system within the park that does not meet current
standards may remain in use provided it is maintained at a level that ensures the
system functions as originally designed. Any new or replacement sewer facilities
shall conform to all current requirements.
10) Water Supply: An existing water supply system that does not meet current
standards may remain in use provided it is maintained at a level that ensures the
system functions as originally designed. Any new or replacement sewer facilities
shall conform to all current requirements.
Section 3.4040. Manufactured Dwelling Space Requirements [ORD. 25-02]
The following requirements apply to all manufactured dwelling spaces in a new
manufactured dwelling park or to new spaces in the expansion of an existing
manufactured dwelling park:
1) Minimum Space Area: 3,000 square feet
2) Minimum Space Width: 40 feet
3) Minimum Space Depth: 85 feet
4) Setbacks: In addition to the perimeter setback requirements of Section
3.4030(3), above, manufactured dwellings shall be setback a minimum of 10 feet
from the edge of all accessways.
5) Electrical: Each manufactured dwelling space shall have an approved electrical
hookup.
6) Sewage: Each manufactured dwelling space shall have a sewage connection.
7) Water Supply: Each manufactured dwelling space shall comply with the
requirements of Section 3.0040.
8) Minimum space requirements between manufactured dwellings: 10 feet
Section 3.4050. Application Requirements and Review Process [ORD. 25-02]
An application for a new manufactured dwelling park or to expand an existing
manufactured dwelling park shall be processed using the Type I procedure. The
application shall include the following information:

Clatsop County Land and Water III-39 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
1) the layout of the entire manufactured dwelling park, drawn to scale.
2) location of adjacent existing and proposed public and private roads within four
hundred (400) feet of the development site
3) existing topographical lines at a 5-foot contour
4) Boundaries and dimensions, drawn to scale, of the manufactured dwelling park.
5) Location and dimensions of each manufactured dwelling space. Each space shall
be designated by number, letter or name.
6) Name of manufactured dwelling park and address.
7) Scale and north arrow.
8) Location and dimensions of each existing or proposed structure
9) The proposed use of each structure
10) Height of each structure
11) Location and width of internal vehicular accessways
12) Location and width of walkways
13) Location, dimensions, details, and planting list for all off-street parking and
loading facilities
14) Location, dimensions, details, and planting list for all open space, landscaping,
fences and walls.
15) Lighting plan showing location of all outdoor lighting and specifications for fixture
type(s) to demonstrate compliance with Chapter 8.20, Clatsop County Code
16) Location and dimensions of recreation areas and buildings, and other amenities,
if provided
17) Location of all water, sewer and electrical systems and connections
18) Location of fire hydrants.
19) Development Permit Required: In addition to the Type I review process for the
manufactured dwelling park, each structure within the park must obtain individual
zoning review and permits prior to initiating construction. Approval of the park
does not constitute approval of the dwelling and structures within the park.
Section 3.4090. Improvement Requirements for Expansion of Existing Mobile
Home Parks
Section 3.4060. Replacement of a Manufactured Dwelling Park Destroyed by
Natural Disaster [ORD. 23-02] [ORD. 25-02]
Manufactured dwelling parks, including legal non-conforming parks, may be replaced if:
1) The manufactured dwelling park was destroyed by a natural disaster that
occurred on or after September 1, 2020, and resulted in the declaration of a state
of emergency under ORS 401.165 or 401.309 for wildfire, floods, tsunamis,
earthquakes or similar events, including disasters began by negligent or
intentional acts;
2) The replacement complies with Section 5.1000 and Section 5.3000, as
applicable;
SECTION 3.5000. RECREATION VEHICLE PARKS
Section 3.5010. Purpose

Clatsop County Land and Water III-40 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
The purpose of the regulations imposed upon recreation vehicle parks is to assure that
each park provides safe and sanitary accommodations for the campers, travel trailers
and other vehicles which are located temporarily in the park; that the support services
provided tourists (utility conveniences and facilities) are adequate for the period of their
stay in the park; and that the park does not permit the use of any of its accommodations
for mobile home or recreational vehicles which are used for permanent occupancy.
The scope of the park is to encompass additional recreation activities such as overnight
tent camping and picnicking, and to only provide those in-park services and supplies
required by the clientele.
Section 3.5020. Standards and Requirements
The following standards and requirements shall govern the application of a park in an
area in which it is permitted:
1) Duration of Occupancy
No recreation vehicle shall remain the park for more than thirty (30) days in any
sixty (60) day period. No habitable vehicle, which is not a recreation vehicle, shall
be allowed in the park for any period with the exception of one mobile home unit
for the exclusive use of the park manager and/or caretaker.
2) Size, Density, Lot Dimension and Setbacks
(A) Size. Minimum total acreage shall not be less than five (5) acres.
(B) Density. Maximum recreational vehicle spaces per gross acre shall not
exceed ten (10) spaces.
(C) The minimum lot area for any recreation vehicle or travel trailer space
shall not be less than 3,500 square feet.
(D) The minimum lot width shall be forty (40) feet.
(E) The minimum lot length shall be seventy (70) feet.
(F) The minimum distance between recreation vehicles, and a public street,
arterial or highway right-of-way shall be sixty (60) feet.
(G) The minimum distance between recreation vehicles and all property lines
shall be ten (10) feet.
(H) The minimum distance between recreation vehicles and other like units
shall be twenty- five (25) feet.
(I) The minimum distance between recreation vehicles and public services
buildings shall be twenty-five (25) feet.
(J) No recreation vehicle site or structure shall be placed closer than 30 feet
to perennial streams or lakes (high water mark) or other bodies of water.
(K) The space provided for a recreation vehicle shall be covered with crushed
gravel, or paved with asphalt, concrete or similar material and be designed
to provide run-off of surface water. The part of the space which is not
occupied by the recreation vehicle, or not part of an outdoor patio, need
not be paved or covered with gravel provided the area is landscaped or
otherwise treated to prevent dust.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-41 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
3) Plot and Building Plans
Seven (7) copies of the plans drawn to scale required by the Oregon State
Health Division shall be submitted to the Clatsop County Community
Development Office.
4) Recreation Areas
Recreation areas and facilities such as playgrounds, swimming pools and
community buildings should be provided to the extent necessary to meet the
anticipated needs of the clientele the recreation park is designed to serve.
(A) A developed recreation area shall be provided which contains a minimum
of 2,500 square feet or 200 square feet per site space, whichever is the
greater.
(B) Provide separate adult and tot recreation areas.
(C) Playground areas shall be protected from main thoroughfares and parking
areas.
(D) Recreation areas shall be centrally located to the spaces they are to
serve. At least one recreation area shall have a minimum size of five
thousand (5,000) square feet and be of a shape that will make is usable
for its intended purpose.
5) Utilities and Sanitation
(A) All facilities and service structures including each recreation vehicle/travel
trailer space shall be provided with underground water and utilities.
(B) Approved public drinking fountains are to be located in playground and
service building area.
(C) Recreation vehicles without bathroom facilities shall be parked within two
hundred (200) feet of the park utility building.
6) Lighting
Lighting is required for all common walkways, toilet facilities, service buildings,
service building areas and roadways.
7) Access and Circulation
(A) The recreation vehicle park shall be served by hard surfaced roads.
(B) The recreation vehicle park shall not be located where it will have a
hazardous entrance or exit onto a road or onto a road that has a
hazardous intersection with a major arterial.
(C) The amount of traffic generated by the recreation vehicle park shall not
exceed the capability of roads serving the development.
(D) Off highway entry (ingress and egress) shall be provided by the park
owner in order to permit entrance/access, as well as parking, through the
park toll booth without causing traffic stoppage or unsafe traffic movement
on public roads.
(E) Roadways within the park shall be hard surfaced to a width of twenty (20)
feet if no parking is permitted on the roadway, and thirty (30) feet if parking
is permitted on the roadway.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-42 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
(F) The first fifty (50) feet of access (for ingress and egress) measured from
the street shall be hard surfaced to a width of thirty-six (36) feet and shall
be connected to an existing street according to plans approved by the
County Roadmaster and/or the Oregon State Highway Engineer.
(G) Street grades shall not be in excess of eight (8) percent at any given point.
8) Parking
(A) The total number of parking spaces in the park, exclusive of parking
provided for the use of the manager, employees or specialized additional
parking, shall be equal to one 10' x 20' space per camping space. All
parking spaces shall be covered with crushed gravel or paved with
asphalt, concrete or similar material.
(B) Additional parking areas for boats, trailers, etc. shall be conveniently
located for supervision, but these specialized parking areas shall be
separated from all other parking facilities. The ratio of one 10' x 20'
additional parking space for every eight (8) camping spaces shall be
observed.
9) Walkways
(A) A walkway system shall be provided and maintained which gives safe,
convenient access to park spaces.
(B) Common trails and walkways shall be provided to connect recreational
vehicle sites to common areas, bathroom facilities, service buildings and
natural amenities.
(C) Common walkways shall be located through interior areas and be kept
separated from vehicular traffic.
10) Greenbelts, Natural Screening and Open Space
(A) Ten (10) percent of the gross area of the recreation park must be reserved
for open space. This open space is in addition to areas used for lots,
roads, walkways, play areas and service areas.
(B) A sight obscuring greenbelt buffer strip shall be required around all sides
of the recreation park to a height of eight (8) feet above ground level. This
buffer strip shall be composed of natural screening, plantings, or other
screens of a material type, size and located as recommended by the
Planning Commission.
(C) Vegetative screening is to be provided between recreation park spaces,
between spaces and service buildings, as well as between park and
commercial activities, etc.
SECTION 3.6000. BEACH FRONT MOTEL DEVELOPMENT
Section 3.6010. Purpose
The purpose of this section is to set forth standards by which resort motels can be
placed in beach front areas without resulting in conflicts with the low intensity residential
uses and the natural and recreational resources of the area.
Section 3.6020. Development Standards

Clatsop County Land and Water III-43 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
All beach front resort motel development in the TC zone shall comply with the following
standards:
1) Adequate off-street parking for guests and employees shall be provided
consistent with parking standards of this Ordinance. The parking areas shall be
screened from adjacent residential uses and shall be landscaped.
2) A minimum of 25% of the property shall be retained in landscaping.
3) Service areas, garbage disposal areas and other similar portions of the
development shall be screened from view.
4) The height of the development shall not exceed the average height of the
residential uses of the area and no parts of the development shall block views of
the ocean from residential uses in the area.
5) The construction materials used in the development shall be similar in
appearance to material used in neighboring residential dwellings.
6) Exterior lighting for signs, parking area, walkways and other areas shall be lower
intensity so as not to create a distraction to adjacent residential uses.
7) Access to and from the development shall be by improved streets having a direct
connection to major arterials and/or Highway 101.
8) The development shall not block public access to ocean beaches unless an
alternate, suitable access is provided as part of the development.
9) Natural resources and features on or adjacent to the site prior to development
shall be retained to the maximum extent possible.
SECTION 3.7000. AMUSEMENT ESTABLISHMENT
Amusement establishment - a commercial amusement establishment may be
authorized after consideration of the following factors:
1) Adequacy of access from principal street, together with the probably effect on
traffic volumes of abutting and nearby streets;
2) Adequacy of off-street parking;
3) Adequacy of building and site design provisions to minimize glare from the
building and site;
4) Noise levels shall not exceed Department of Environmental Quality standards
SECTION 3.8000. HOME OCCUPATION
Section 3.8010. Purpose [ORD. 25-16]
The purpose of this section is to establish standards by which limited small-scale
business activities, hereafter referred to as Home Occupation, could operate in non-
commercial and non- industrial zones. Special standards apply to ensure that home
occupations will not be a detriment to the character and livability of the surrounding
neighborhood. The standards ensure that the home occupation remains subordinate to

Clatsop County Land and Water III-44 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
the residential use, and that the residential viability of the dwelling is maintained. The
existence of a Home Occupation shall not be used as justification for a zone change.
Section 3.8020. Home Occupation Standards [ORD. 26-15]
The following limitations and requirements shall apply to all Home Occupations:
1) Parking of 1 space per employee must be provided on the same tract of land.
Parking spaces needed for employees of a home occupation shall be provided in
defined areas of the property which are accessible, usable, designed and
surfaced for that purpose.
2) No more than two vehicles or trailers are to be used in the operation of the Home
Occupation.
3) No modification shall be made to the dwelling to establish or operate the Home
Occupation that would cause it to resemble anything other than a dwelling.
4) All materials, parts, tools and other equipment used in the operation of the Home
Occupation shall be stored entirely within the dwelling or accessory building.
5) The Home Occupation shall not involve operations or use of equipment or
processes which would produce or cause the emission of gasses, dust, odors,
vibration, electrical interference, smoke, noise, or light in a manner likely to cause
offense to irritation to neighboring residents. The Home Occupation shall comply
with the applicable federal, state and local regulations.
6) No more than one unlighted sign with a maximum area of 6 square feet shall be
used to identify the Home Occupation. No other form of identification or
advertisement shall be used.
7) Retail Sales shall be allowed provided the activity does not give the outward
appearance of a retail business, such as signs other than those permitted under
subsection (6) above, advertising the dwelling as a business location, generate
noise or traffic that adversely affects neighbors, or cause other adverse off-site
impacts.
8) A Complaint from neighbors shall be cause for review of any Home Occupation
conducted as a retail business. If Code Compliance determines that a violation of
the conditions of approval for a home occupation has occurred, an annual report
may be required.
9) A Home Occupation in or adjacent to the AF, F-80 and EFU zones shall not
involve activities which might disrupt or adversely impact forest use of the parcel
or adjacent parcels. The Home Occupation shall also not involve activities
sensitive to standard farm or forest management practices.
10) Repair or assembly of any vehicles or engines is not allowed.
11) Deliveries or pick-ups of supplies or products, associated with the home
occupation, are allowed to occur between 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
12) No outside storage, display of goods or merchandise, or external evidence of a
home occupation shall occur except as otherwise permitted in this section.
13) The premises upon which the home occupation is conducted shall be the
residence of the person conducting the home occupation.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-45 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Section 3.8021. Standards for Type I Home Occupations [ORD. 25-16]
In addition to the standards in Section 3.8020, the following standards shall also apply
to all Type I Home Occupations:
1) The Home Occupation shall be operated entirely within the principal dwelling
2) A separate entrance to the home occupation is not allowed
3) The dwelling shall not be altered in a manner that is not customarily used for
residential buildings
4) No mechanical equipment shall be used except that which is used normally for
domestic or household purposes
5) A maximum of 25% of the total dwelling floor area may be used for the Home
Occupation
6) Outdoor display is not permitted
7) Not more than three non-resident employees or vehicles are allowed on the
premises at any one time in conjunction with a Type I home occupation

Section 3.8022. Standards for Type II Home Occupations [ORD. 25-16]
In addition to the standards in Section 3.8020, the following standards shall also apply
to all Type II Home Occupations:
1) Not more than five non-resident employees or vehicles are allowed on the
premises at any one time in conjunction with a Type II home occupation
2) The Home Occupation shall be located in either:
(A) The primary dwelling; or
(B) Other buildings normally associated with uses permitted in the zone, such
as accessory structures
3) The Home Occupation shall not interfere with existing uses on adjacent land or
with other uses permitted in the zone
Section 3.8030. Bed & Breakfast Establishment Standards
The following standards shall apply to all bed & breakfast establishments in order to
preserve the character of the neighborhood or area in which it is to be located. Bed and
breakfast establishments shall be allowed in the zones as permitted by this section and
as defined by ORS 215.448 (Home Occupations). The regulations have been
established to provide an alternative form of lodging for visitors who prefer a residential
setting.
1) Number of rental units
(A) 1-5 unit establishment is subject to approval of a Type I development
permit and Section 2.070 in the following zones: NC, TC and GC.
(B) 1-5 unit establishment is subject to approval of a Type II conditional use
permit and Section 5.000-5.030 in the following zones: RSA-SFR, RSA-
MFR, CR, SFR-1, RA-1, RA-2, RA-5, RA-10, EFU, AF, F-80.
2) Establishment shall be operated substantially in:
(A) The dwelling unit, and historical resource buildings; and
(B) It shall not unreasonably interfere with other uses permitted in the zone in
which the property is located; and

Clatsop County Land and Water III-46 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
(C) Will employ not more than three full or part-time persons; and
(D) The premises upon which the bed and breakfast establishment is
conducted shall be the residence of the person conducting the
establishment.
3) (A) One off-street parking space shall be provided for each rental unit plus the
  2 required spaces for the residence of the person conducting the
  establishment. Off-street parking requirements are subject to the
  standards in Section 3.0050-3.0120 (Off-Street Parking Required).
(B) Additional parking shall be provided for employees subject to the
standards in Section 3.0050-3.0120 (Off-Street Parking Required).
(C) A reduction in the number of rental units may be required if the impacts of
the parking area cannot be mitigated.
4) Signing is limited to a six (6) square foot nameplate, non-illuminated (replaces
Section 3.8020(6)).
5) All Bed and breakfast establishments shall comply with the applicable state and
local health, building and fire code requirements.
6) Bed and breakfast establishments shall comply with the development standards
of the base zone, and overlay zone where applicable.
7) Any expansion of an existing building or alterations that increase the intensity of
the establishment, may require, at the discretion of the Community Development
Director, a Type II conditional use permit subject to Section 2.4000-2.4050, in the
following zones:
A. RSA-SFR, RSA-MFR, CR, SFR-1, RA-1, RA-2, RA-5, RA-10, EFU, AF, F-80.
8) Residential structures may be remodeled for the development of a bed and
breakfast establishment. However, structural alteration may not be made which
prevent the structure from being used as a residence in the future. Internal or
external changes which will make the dwelling appear less residential in nature
or function are not allowed.
9) An establishment in or adjacent to the AF, F-80 and EFU zones shall not involve
activities which might disrupt or adversely impact farm or forest use of the parcel
or adjacent parcels.
10) Access to serve a bed and breakfast establishment shall be designed to meet the
criteria within Standards Section 3.6520 and Section 3.9540 (Access Control)
and the applicable standards within Section 3.9800 (Road Standard
Specifications for Design and Construction).
Section 3.8040. Bed & Breakfast Establishment Standards for Standard Sized
Lots or Parcels
Bed and breakfast establishments may be considered on parcels or lots that meet the
minimum lot size in the following zones as provided by this section:
Zone Standard
RSA-SFR Conditional use permit

Clatsop County Land and Water III-47 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Zone Standard
RSA-MFR Conditional use permit
CR Conditional use permit
SFR-1 Conditional use permit
RA-1 Conditional use permit
RA-2 Conditional use permit
RA-5 Conditional use permit
RA-10 Conditional use permit
CBR Not permitted
NC Permitted use
TC Permitted use
GC Permitted use
EFU Conditional use permit
AF Conditional use permit
F-80 Conditional use permit

Section 3.8050. Bed & Breakfast Establishment Standards for Substandard Sized
Lots or Parcels
Bed & breakfast establishments may only be considered on parcels or lots that are less
than the minimum lot size in the following circumstances:
Zone Standard
RSA-SFR Not permitted
RSA-MFR Conditional use permit
CR Conditional use permit
SFR-1 Not permitted
RA-1 Conditional use permit
RA-2 Conditional use permit
RA-5 Conditional use permit
RA-10 Conditional use permit
CBR Not permitted
NC Conditional use permit
TC Conditional use permit
GC Conditional use permit

Clatsop County Land and Water III-48 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Zone Standard
EFU Conditional use permit
AF Conditional use permit
F-80 Conditional use permit

SECTION 3.9000. FARM AND FOREST ZONE STANDARDS [ORD. 18-02]
Section 3.9010. Farm, Forest and Natural Resource Uses
1) A farm on which a processing facility is located must provide at least one-quarter
of the farm crops processed at the facility. A farm may also be used for an
establishment for the slaughter, processing or selling of poultry or poultry
products pursuant to ORS 603.038. If a building is established or used for the
processing facility or establishment, the farm operator may not devote more than
10,000 square feet of floor area to the processing facility or establishment,
exclusive of the floor area designated for preparation, storage or other farm use.
A processing facility or establishment must comply with all applicable siting
standards but the standards may not be applied in a manner that prohibits the
siting of the processing facility or establishment. A county may not approve any
division of a lot or parcel that separates a processing facility or establishment
from the farm operation on which it is located.
2) A facility for the primary processing of forest products shall not seriously interfere
with accepted farming practices and shall be compatible with farm uses
described in Section 1.0500. Such facility may be approved for a one-year period
that is renewable and is intended to be only portable or temporary in nature. The
primary processing of a forest product, as used in this Section, means the use of
a portable chipper or stud mill or other similar methods of initial treatment of a
forest product in order to enable its shipment to market. Forest products as used
in this Section means timber grown upon a tract where the primary processing
facility is located.
Section 3.9020 Residential Uses
1) To qualify for a relative farm help dwelling,
(A) A dwelling shall be occupied by relatives whose assistance in the
management and farm use of the existing commercial farming operation is
required by the farm operator. However, farming of a marijuana crop may
not be used to demonstrate compliance with the approval criteria for a
relative farm help dwelling. The farm operator shall continue to play the
predominant role in the management and farm use of the farm.
(B) A relative farm help dwelling must be located on the same lot or parcel as
the dwelling of the farm operator and must be on real property used for
farm use.
2) A temporary hardship dwelling is subject to the following:
(A) One manufactured dwelling, or recreational vehicle, or the temporary

Clatsop County Land and Water III-49 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
residential use of an existing building may be allowed in conjunction with
an existing dwelling as a temporary use for the term of the hardship
suffered by the existing resident or relative, subject to the following:
1. The manufactured dwelling shall use the same subsurface sewage
disposal system used by the existing dwelling, if that disposal
system is adequate to accommodate the additional dwelling. If the
manufactured home will use a public sanitary sewer system, such
condition will not be required;
2. The county shall review the permit authorizing such manufactured
homes every two years; and
3. Within three months of the end of the hardship, the manufactured
dwelling or recreational vehicle shall be removed or demolished or,
in the case of an existing building, the building shall be removed,
demolished or returned to an allowed nonresidential use.
(B) A temporary residence approved under this Section is not eligible for
replacement under Section 4.3300(25). Department of Environmental
Quality review and removal requirements also apply.
(C) As used in this Section “hardship” means a medical hardship or hardship
for the care of an aged or infirm person or persons.
Section 3.9030. Commercial Uses [ORD. 25-16]
1) Dog training classes or testing trials conducted outdoors, or in farm buildings that
existed on January 1, 2013, are limited as follows:
(A) The number of dogs participating in training does not exceed 10 per
training class and the number of training classes to be held on-site does
not exceed six per day; and
(B) The number of dogs participating in a testing trial does not exceed 60 and
the number of testing trials to be conducted on-site does not exceed four
per calendar year.
2) A farm stand structure may be approved if:
(A) The structures are designed and used for sale of farm crops and livestock
grown on the farm operation, or grown on the farm operation and other
farm operations in the local agricultural area, including the sale of retail
incidental items and fee-based activity to promote the sale of farm crops
or livestock sold at the farm stand if the annual sales of the incidental
items and fees from promotional activity do not make up more than 25
percent of the total annual sales of the farm stand; and
(B) The farm stand structure does not include structures designed for
occupancy as a residence or for activities other than the sale of farm crops
and livestock and does not include structures for banquets, public
gatherings or public entertainment.
(C) As used in this Section, "farm crops or livestock" includes both fresh and
processed farm crops and livestock grown on the farm operation, or grown
on the farm operation and other farm operations in the local agricultural

Clatsop County Land and Water III-50 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
area.
(D) As used in this Subsection, "processed farm crops and livestock" includes
jams, syrups, apple cider, animal products and other similar farm crops
and livestock that have been processed and converted into another
product but not prepared food items.
(E) As used in this Section, "local agricultural area" includes Oregon or an
adjacent county in Washington, Idaho, Nevada or California that borders
the Oregon county in which the farm stand is located.
(F) A farm stand structure may not be used for the sale, or to promote the
sale, of marijuana products or extracts.
(G) Farm stand structure development standards
1. Adequate off-street parking will be provided pursuant to provisions
of Sections 3.0050-3.0090.
2.  Roadways, driveway aprons, driveways and parking surfaces shall
be surfaces that prevent dust, and may include paving, gravel,
cinders, or bark/wood chips.
3. All vehicle maneuvering will be conducted on site. No vehicle
backing or maneuvering shall occur within adjacent roads, streets
or highways.
4. No farm stand structure, accessory structure or parking is permitted
within the right-of-way.
5. Approval is required from the County Public Works Department
regarding adequate egress and access. All egress and access
points shall be clearly marked.
6. Vision clearance areas. No visual obstruction (e.g., sign, structure,
solid fence, wall, planting or shrub vegetation) may exceed three
(3) feet in height within “vision clearance areas” at street
intersections.
a) Service drives shall have a minimum clear-vision area
formed by the intersection of the driveway centerline, the
road right-of-way line, and a straight line joining said lines
through points twenty (20) feet from their intersection.
b) Height is measured from the top of the curb or, where no
curb exists, from the established street center line grade.
c) Trees exceeding three (3) feet in height may be located in
this area, provided all branches and foliage are removed to a
height of eight (8) feet above grade.
7. All outdoor light fixtures shall be directed downward, and have full
cutoff and full shielding to preserve views of the night sky and to
minimize excessive light spillover onto adjacent properties, roads
and highways.
8. Signs are permitted consistent with Section 3.0130.
(H) Permit approval is subject to compliance with the County On-site Septic
Program or Department of Agriculture requirements and with the

Clatsop County Land and Water III-51 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
development standards of this zone.
(I) At the request of the County, the farm stand operator shall submit
evidence of compliance with the annual sales requirement of subsection
(A). This evidence shall consist of an IRS tax return transcript and any
other information the County may require to document ongoing
compliance with this section or any other condition of approval. [ORD. 25-
16]
3) A destination resort is not permitted on high-value farmland except that existing
destination resorts may be expanded subject to Section 3.9080(3).
4) Home occupations shall be subject to the following in addition to the
requirements of Section 3.8000:
(A) Be operated by a resident or employee of a resident of the property on
which the business is located;
(B) Employ on the site no more than five full-time or part-time persons;
(C) Be operated substantially in:
1. The dwelling; or
2. Other buildings normally associated with uses permitted in the zone
in which the property is located, except that such other buildings
may not be utilized as bed and breakfast facilities or rental units
unless they are legal residences.
(D) Not unreasonably interfere with other uses permitted in the zone in which
the property is located.
(E) When a bed and breakfast facility is sited as a home occupation on the
same tract as a winery established pursuant to Section 3.515 and is
operated in association with the winery:
1. The bed and breakfast facility may prepare and serve two meals
per day to the registered guests of the bed and breakfast facility;
and
2. The meals may be served at the bed and breakfast facility or at the
winery.
(F) The decision maker may only approve a use allowed in OAR 660-033-
0120 as a home occupation on farm land if:
1. The scale and intensity of the use is no more intensive than the
limitations and conditions otherwise specified for the use in OAR
660-033-0120; and
2. The use is accessory, incidental and subordinate to the primary
residential use of a dwelling on the property. [ORD. 25-16]
5) Commercial activities in conjunction with farm use may be approved when:
(A) The commercial activity is either exclusively or primarily a customer or
supplier of farm products;
(B) The commercial activity is limited to providing products and services
essential to the practice of agriculture by surrounding agricultural
operations that are sufficiently important to justify the resulting loss of
agricultural land to the commercial activity; or

Clatsop County Land and Water III-52 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
(C) The commercial activity significantly enhances the farming enterprises of
the local agricultural community, of which the land housing the commercial
activity is a part. Retail sales of products or services to the general public
that take place on a parcel or tract that is different from the parcel or tract
on which agricultural product is processed, such as a tasting room with no
on-site winery, are not commercial activities in conjunction with farm use.
6) Equine and Equine-Affiliated Therapeutic and Counseling Activities [ORD. 23-02]
(A) The activities are conducted in existing buildings that were lawfully
constructed on the property before January 1, 2019, or in new buildings
that are accessory, incidental and subordinate to the farm use on the tract;
and
(B) All individuals conducting therapeutic or counseling activities are acting
within the proper scope of any licenses required by the state.
7) A farm product processing facility may be allowed on land zoned for exclusive
farm use, only if the facility:
(A) Uses less than 10,000 square feet for its processing area and complies
with all applicable siting standards; or
(B) Notwithstanding any applicable siting standard, uses less than 2,500
square feet for its processing area. However, the County shall apply
applicable standards and criteria pertaining to floodplains, geologic
hazards, beach and dune hazards, airport safety, tsunami hazards and fire
siting standards.
(C) Siting standards may not be applied in a manner that prohibits the siting of
a farm product processing facility. [ORD. 23-02]
Section 3.9040. Mineral, Aggregate, Oil and Gas Uses
1) Facilities that batch and blend mineral and aggregate into asphalt cement may
not be authorized within two miles of a planted vineyard. Planted vineyard means
one or more vineyards totaling 40 acres or more that are planted as of the date
the application for batching and blending is filed.
2) Mining, crushing or stockpiling of aggregate and other mineral and subsurface
resources are subject to the following:
(A) A land use permit is required for mining more than one thousand (1,000)
cubic yards of martial or excavation preparatory to mining of a surface
area of more than one (1) acre.
(B) A land use permit for mining of aggregate shall be issued only for a site
included on the mineral and aggregate inventory in an acknowledged
Comprehensive Plan.
Section 3.9050. Transportation Uses
1) A personal-use airport, as used in this Section, prohibits aircraft other than those
owned or controlled by the owner of the airstrip. Exceptions to the activities
allowed under this definition may be granted through waiver action by the Oregon
Department of Aviation in specific instances. A personal-use airport lawfully

Clatsop County Land and Water III-53 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
existing as of September 13, 1975, shall continue to be allowed subject to any
applicable rules of the Oregon Department of Aviation.
Section 3.9060. Utility/Solid Waste Disposal Facilities
1) Subject to the issuance of a license, permit or other approval by the Department
of Environmental Quality under ORS 454.695, 459.205, 468B.050, 468B.053 or
468B.055, or in compliance with rules adopted under 468B.095, and with the
requirements of ORS 215.246, 215.247, 215.249 and 215.251, the land
application of reclaimed water, agricultural process or industrial process water or
biosolids, or the onsite treatment of septage prior to the land application of
biosolids, for agricultural, horticultural or silvicultural production, or for irrigation in
connection with a use allowed in an exclusive farm use zone under this division
is allowed. For the purposes of this section, onsite treatment of septage prior to
the land application of biosolids is limited to treatment using facilities that are
portable, temporary and transportable by truck trailer, as defined in ORS
801.580, during a period of time which land application of biosolids is authorized
under the license, permit or other approval.
2) Utility facility service lines are utility lines and accessory facilities or structures
that end at the point where the utility service is received by the customer and that
are located on one or more of the following:
(A) A public right of way;
(B) Land immediately adjacent to a public right of way, provided the written
consent of all adjacent property owners has been obtained; or
(C) The property to be served by the utility.
3) A utility facility that is necessary for public service.
(A) A utility facility is necessary for public service if the facility must be sited in
the exclusive farm use zone in order to provide the service.
1. To demonstrate that a utility facility is necessary, an applicant must
show that reasonable alternatives have been considered and that
the facility must be sited in an exclusive farm use zone due to one
or more of the following factors:
a) Technical and engineering feasibility;
b) The proposed facility is locationally-dependent. A utility
facility is locationally-dependent if it must cross land in one
or more areas zoned for exclusive farm use in order to
achieve a reasonably direct route or to meet unique
geographical needs that cannot be satisfied on other lands;
c) Lack of available urban and nonresource lands;
d) Availability of existing rights of way;
e) Public health and safety; and
f) Other requirements of state and federal agencies.
2. Costs associated with any of the factors listed in Subsection (1 of
this subsection may be considered, but cost alone may not be the
only consideration in determining that a utility facility is necessary

Clatsop County Land and Water III-54 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
for public service. Land costs shall not be included when
considering alternative locations for substantially similar utility
facilities and the siting of utility facilities that are not substantially
similar.
3. The owner of a utility facility approved under Subsection (A) shall
be responsible for restoring, as nearly as possible, to its former
condition any agricultural land and associated improvements that
are damaged or otherwise disturbed by the siting, maintenance,
repair or reconstruction of the facility. Nothing in this Subsection
shall prevent the owner of the utility facility from requiring a bond or
other security from a contractor or otherwise imposing on a
contractor the responsibility for restoration.
4. The county shall impose clear and objective conditions on an
application for utility facility siting to mitigate and minimize the
impacts of the proposed facility, if any, on surrounding lands
devoted to farm use in order to prevent a significant change in
accepted farm practices or a significant increase in the cost of farm
practices on surrounding farmlands.
5. Utility facilities necessary for public service may include on-site and
off-site facilities for temporary workforce housing for workers
constructing a utility facility. Such facilities must be removed or
converted to an allowed use under the EFU Zone or other statute or
rule when project construction is complete. Off-site facilities allowed
under this Subsection are subject to Subsection S3.509 Conditional
Use Review Criteria. Temporary workforce housing facilities not
included in the initial approval may be considered through a minor
amendment request. A minor amendment request shall have no
effect on the original approval.
6. In addition to the provisions of Section S3.5013)(A)1 through 4, the
establishment or extension of a sewer system as defined by OAR
660-011-0060(1)(f) shall be subject to the provisions of 660-011-
0060.
(B) An associated transmission line is necessary for public service upon
demonstration that the associated transmission line meets either the
following requirements of Subsection 1 or Subsection 2 of this Subsection.
1. An applicant demonstrates that the entire route of the associated
transmission line meets at least one of the following requirements:
a) The associated transmission line is not located on high-value
farmland, as defined in ORS 195.300, or on arable land;
b) The associated transmission line is co-located with an
existing transmission line;
c) The associated transmission line parallels an existing
transmission line corridor with the minimum separation
necessary for safety; or

Clatsop County Land and Water III-55 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
d) The associated transmission line is located within an existing
right of way for a linear facility, such as a transmission line,
road or railroad, that is located above the surface of the
ground.
2. After an evaluation of reasonable alternatives, an applicant
demonstrates that the entire route of the associated transmission
line meets, subject to Sections S3.5013)(B)3 and 4, two or more of
the following criteria:
a) Technical and engineering feasibility;
b) The associated transmission line is locationally-dependent
because the associated transmission line must cross high-
value farmland, as defined in ORS 195.300, or arable land to
achieve a reasonably direct route or to meet unique
geographical needs that cannot be satisfied on other lands;
c) Lack of an available existing right of way for a linear facility,
such as a transmission line, road or railroad, that is located
above the surface of the ground;
d) Public health and safety; or
e) Other requirements of state or federal agencies.
3. As pertains to Subsection 2, the applicant shall demonstrate how
the applicant will mitigate and minimize the impacts, if any, of the
associated transmission line on surrounding lands devoted to farm
use in order to prevent a significant change in accepted farm
practices or a significant increase in the cost of farm practices on
the surrounding farmland.
4. The county may consider costs associated with any of the factors
listed in Subsection 2, but consideration of cost may not be the only
consideration in determining whether the associated transmission
line is necessary for public service.
4) Composting operations and facilities shall meet the performance and permitting
requirements of the Department of Environmental Quality under OAR 340-093-
0050 and 340-096-0060. Buildings and facilities used in conjunction with the
composting operation shall only be those required for the operation of the subject
facility. Onsite sales shall be limited to bulk loads of at least one unit (7.5 cubic
yards) in size that are transported in one vehicle. This use is not permitted on
high value farmland except that existing facilities on high value farmland may be
expanded subject to Section S3.5013).
(A) Compost facility operators must prepare, implement and maintain a site-
specific Odor Minimization Plan that:
1. Meets the requirements of OAR 340-096-0150;
2. Identifies the distance of the proposed operation to the nearest
residential zone;
3. Includes a complaint response protocol;
4. Is submitted to the DEQ with the required permit application; and

Clatsop County Land and Water III-56 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
5. May be subject to annual review by the county to determine if any
revisions are necessary.
(B) Compost operations subject to Section S3.5014)(A) include:
1. A new disposal site for composting that sells, or offers for sale,
resulting product; or
2. An existing disposal site for composting that sells, or offers for sale,
resulting product that:
3. Accepts as feedstock nonvegetative materials, including dead
animals, meat, dairy products and mixed food waste (type 3
feedstock); or
4. Increases the permitted annual tonnage of feedstock used by the
disposal site by an amount that requires a new land use approval.
5) Solid waste disposal facilities shall meet the performance and permitting
requirements of the Department of Environmental Quality under ORS 459.245,
shall meet the requirements of Section 3.9090 and shall comply with the
following requirements.
(A) The facility shall be designed to minimize conflicts with existing and
permitted uses allowed under plan designations for adjacent parcels as
outlined in policies of the Comprehensive Plan.
(B) The facility must be of a size and design to minimize noise or other
detrimental effects when located adjacent to farm, forest and grazing
dwellings(s) or a residential zone.
(C) The facility shall be fenced when the site is located adjacent to dwelling(s)
or a residential zone and landscaping, buffering and/or screening shall be
provided.
(D) The facility does not constitute an unnecessary fire hazard.  If located in a
forested area, the county shall condition approval to ensure that minimum
fire safety measures will be taken, which may include but are not limited to
the following:
1. The area surrounding the facility is kept free from litter and debris.
2. Fencing will be installed around the facility, if deemed appropriate
to protect adjacent farm crops or timber stand.
3. If the proposed facility is located in a forested area, construction
materials shall be fire resistant or treated with a fire retardant
substance and the applicant will be required to remove forest fuels
within 30 feet of structures.
(E) The facility shall adequately protect fish and wildlife resources by meeting
minimum Oregon State Department of Forestry regulations.
(F) Access roads or easements for the facility shall be improved to the
county’s Transportation System Plan standards and comply with grades
recommended by the Public Works Director.
(G) Road construction for the facility must be consistent with the intent and
purposes set forth in the Oregon Forest Practices Act to minimize soil
disturbance and help maintain water quality.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-57 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
(H) Hours of operation for the facility shall be limited to 8 am – 7 pm.
(I) Comply with other conditions deemed necessary.
Section 3.9070. Parks/Public/Quasi-Public
1) Buildings and facilities associated with a site for the takeoff and landing of model
aircraft shall not be more than 500 square feet in floor area or placed on a
permanent foundation unless the building or facility preexisted the use approved
under this Section. The site shall not include an aggregate surface or hard
surface area unless the surface preexisted the use approved under this Section.
An owner of property used for the purpose authorized in this Section may charge
a person operating the use on the property rent for the property. An operator may
charge users of the property a fee that does not exceed the operator’s cost to
maintain the property, buildings and facilities. As used in this Section, "model
aircraft" means a small-scale version of an airplane, glider, helicopter, dirigible or
balloon that is used or intended to be used for flight and is controlled by radio,
lines or design by a person on the ground.
2) A living history museum shall be related to resource based activities and shall be
owned and operated by a governmental agency or a local historical society. A
living history museum may include limited commercial activities and facilities that
are directly related to the use and enjoyment of the museum and located within
authentic buildings of the depicted historic period or the museum administration
building, if areas other than an exclusive farm use zone cannot accommodate the
museum and related activities or if the museum administration buildings and
parking lot are located within one quarter mile of an urban growth boundary.
"Local historical society" means the local historical society, recognized as such
by the county governing body and organized under ORS Chapter 65.
3) A community center may provide services to veterans, including but not limited to
emergency and transitional shelter, preparation and service of meals, vocational
and educational counseling and referral to local, state or federal agencies
providing medical, mental health, disability income replacement and substance
abuse services, only in a facility that is in existence on January 1, 2006. The
services may not include direct delivery of medical, mental health, disability
income replacement or substance abuse services.
4) Public parks may include:
(A) All outdoor recreation uses allowed under ORS 215.213 or 215.283.
(B) The following uses, if authorized in a local or park master plan that is
adopted as part of the local comprehensive plan, or if authorized in a state
park master plan that is adopted by OPRD:
1. Campground areas: recreational vehicle sites; tent sites; camper
cabins; yurts; teepees; covered wagons; group shelters; campfire
program areas; camp stores;
2. Day use areas: picnic shelters, barbecue areas, swimming areas
(not swimming pools), open play fields, play structures;
3. Recreational trails: walking, hiking, biking, horse, or motorized off-

Clatsop County Land and Water III-58 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
road vehicle trails; trail staging areas;
4. Boating and fishing facilities: launch ramps and landings, docks,
moorage facilities, small boat storage, boating fuel stations, fish
cleaning stations, boat sewage pumpout stations;
5. Amenities related to park use intended only for park visitors and
employees: laundry facilities; recreation shops; snack shops not
exceeding 1500 square feet of floor area;
6. Support facilities serving only the park lands wherein the facility is
located: water supply facilities, sewage collection and treatment
facilities, storm water management facilities, electrical and
communication facilities, restrooms and showers, recycling and
trash collection facilities, registration buildings, roads and bridges,
parking areas and walkways;
7. Park Maintenance and Management Facilities located within a park:
maintenance shops and yards, fuel stations for park vehicles,
storage for park equipment and supplies, administrative offices,
staff lodging; and
8. Natural and cultural resource interpretative, educational and
informational facilities in state parks: interpretative centers,
information/orientation centers, self-supporting interpretative and
informational kiosks, natural history or cultural resource museums,
natural history or cultural educational facilities, reconstructed
historic structures for cultural resource interpretation, retail stores
not exceeding 1500 square feet for sale of books and other
materials that support park resource interpretation and education.
(C) Visitor lodging and retreat facilities if authorized in a state park master
plan that is adopted by OPRD: historic lodges, houses or inns and the
following associated uses in a state park retreat area only:
1.  Meeting halls not exceeding 2000 square feet of floor area;
2. Dining halls (not restaurants).
5) Schools formerly allowed pursuant to ORS 215.283(1)(a) that were established
on or before January 1, 2009, may be expanded if:
(A) The Conditional Use Review Criteria in Section 3.9090 are met; and
(B) The expansion occurs on the tax lot on which the use was established, or
on a tax lot that is contiguous to the tax lot on which the use was
established and that was under the same ownership as of January 1,
2025; and
(C) The school is a public or private school for kindergarten through grade 12.
[ORD. 25-16]
6) A campground is an area devoted to overnight temporary use for vacation,
recreation or emergency purposes, but not for residential purposes. Private
Campgrounds are subject to the following:
(A) Except on a lot or parcel contiguous to a lake or reservoir, private
campgrounds shall not be allowed within three miles of an urban growth

Clatsop County Land and Water III-59 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
boundary unless an exception is approved pursuant to ORS 197.732 and
OAR chapter 660, division 4.
(B) A campground shall be designed and integrated into the rural agricultural
and forest environment in a manner that protects the natural amenities of
the site and provides buffers of existing native trees and vegetation or
other natural features between campsites.
(C) Campgrounds shall not include intensively developed recreational uses
such as swimming pools, tennis courts, retail stores or gas stations.
(D) Overnight temporary use in the same campground by a camper or
camper's vehicle shall not exceed a total of 30 days during any
consecutive six-month period.
(E) Campsites may be occupied by a tent, travel trailer, yurt or recreational
vehicle.
(F) Separate sewer, water or electric service hook-ups shall not be provided
to individual camp sites except that electrical service may be provided to
yurts allowed by Subsection (G).
(G) A private campground may provide yurts for overnight camping. No more
than one-third or a maximum of 10 campsites, whichever is smaller, may
include a yurt. The yurt shall be located on the ground or on a wood floor
with no permanent foundation.
(H) Emergency campgrounds are subject to the following:
1. Emergency campgrounds may be authorized when a wildfire
identified in an Executive Order issued by the Governor in
accordance with the Emergency Conflagration Act, ORS 476.510
through 476.610, has destroyed homes or caused residential
evacuations, or both within the county or an adjacent county.
2. Commercial uses are limited to mobile commissary services scaled
to meet the needs of campground occupants.
3. The emergency campground must be removed or converted to an
allowed use within 36 months from the date of the Governor’s
Executive Order, The County may grant two additional 12-month
extensions if the applicant demonstrated that the campground is
necessary to support the natural hazard recovery efforts because
adequate amounts of permanent housing are not reasonably
available.
4. The County shall process applications for emergency campgrounds
and extensions using the process identified in ORS 215.416(11).
5. Campsites may be occupied by a tent, travel trailer, yurt or
recreational vehicle.
6. Separate sewer hook-ups shall not be provided to individual camp
sites.
7. Campgrounds shall be located outside of flood, geological, or
wildfire hazard areas identified in adopted comprehensive plans
and land use regulations to the extent possible.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-60 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
8. A plan for removing or converting the temporary campground to an
allowed use at the end of the timeframe specified in subsection 93)
shall be included in the application materials and be attached to the
Notice of Decision as a condition of approval. The County may
require that the removal plan includes a specific financial
agreement in the form of a performance bond, letter of credit or
other assurance acceptable to the County that is in an amount
necessary to ensure that there are adequate funds available for
removal or conversion activities to be completed.
9. Compliance with Section 3.9090 shall be satisfied if the following
criteria are met:
a. The Governor has issued an Executive Order declaring an
emergency for all or parts of Oregon pursuant to ORS
401.165
b. The subject property is not irrigated
c. The subject property is not high-value farmland
d. The number of proposed campsites does not exceed 12; or
e. The number of proposed campsites does not exceed 36 and
the campsites and other campground facilities are at least
660 feet from adjacent lands planned and zoned for farm or
forest use or both. [ORD. 25-16]
7) Accessory uses provided as part of a golf course shall be limited consistent with
the following standards:
(A) An accessory use to a golf course is a facility or improvement that is
incidental to the operation of the golf course and is either necessary for
the operation and maintenance of the golf course or that provides goods
or services customarily provided to golfers at a golf course. An accessory
use or activity does not serve the needs of the non-golfing public.
Accessory uses to a golf course may include: Parking; maintenance
buildings; cart storage and repair; practice range or driving range;
clubhouse; restrooms; lockers and showers; food and beverage service;
pro shop; a practice or beginners course as part of an 18 hole or larger
golf course; or golf tournament. Accessory uses to a golf course do not
include: Sporting facilities unrelated to golfing such as tennis courts,
swimming pools, and weight rooms; wholesale or retail operations
oriented to the non-golfing public; or housing;
(B) Accessory uses shall be limited in size and orientation on the site to serve
the needs of persons and their guests who patronize the golf course to
golf. An accessory use that provides commercial services (e.g., pro shop,
etc.) shall be located in the clubhouse rather than in separate buildings;
and
(C) Accessory uses may include one or more food and beverage service
facilities in addition to food and beverage service facilities located in a
clubhouse. Food and beverage service facilities must be part of, and

Clatsop County Land and Water III-61 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
incidental to, the operation of the golf course and must be limited in size
and orientation on the site to serve only the needs of persons who
patronize the golf course and their guests. Accessory food and beverage
service facilities shall not be designed for or include structures for
banquets, public gatherings or public entertainment.
Section 3.9080. General Standards
1) Three-mile setback. For uses subject to this Subsection:
(A) No enclosed structure with a design capacity greater than 100 people, or
group of structures with a total design capacity of greater than 100 people,
shall be approved in connection with the use within three miles of an
urban growth boundary, unless an exception is approved pursuant to ORS
197.732 and OAR chapter 660, division 4, or unless the structure is
described in a master plan adopted under the provisions of OAR chapter
660, division 34.
(B) Any enclosed structures or group of enclosed structures described in
Subsection (A) within a tract must be separated by at least one-half mile.
For purposes of this Subsection, “tract” means a tract that is in existence
as of June 17, 2010.
(C) Existing facilities wholly within a farm use zone may be maintained,
enhanced or expanded on the same tract, subject to other requirements of
law, but enclosed existing structures within a farm use zone within three
miles of an urban growth boundary may not be expanded beyond the
requirements of this ordinance.
2) Single-unit dwelling deeds. The landowner shall sign and record in the deed
records for the county a document binding the landowner, and the landowner's
successors in interest, prohibiting them from pursuing a claim for relief or cause
of action alleging injury from farming or forest practices for which no action or
claim is allowed under ORS 30.936 or 30.937. [ORD. 25-16]
3) Expansion standards. Existing facilities wholly within a farm use zone may be
maintained, enhanced or expanded on the same tract, subject to other
requirements of law. An existing golf course may be expanded consistent with
the requirements of Section 3.9090 and Section 4.3300(22).
Section 3.9090. Conditional Use Review Criteria [ORD. 25-16]
These requirements, which are in addition to the requirements of Section 2.4000-
2.4050, are designed to make a conditional use on farm and forest lands compatible
with forest operations and agriculture lands. Conditional uses on farm and forest
resource lands may be approved only where such uses:
1) Will not force a significant change in accepted farm or forest practices on
surrounding lands devoted to farm or forest use; and
2) Will not significantly increase the cost of accepted farm or forest practices on
surrounding lands devoted to farm or forest use.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-62 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
3) For purposes of subsections (1) and (2), above, a determination of forcing a
significant change in accepted farm or forest practices on surrounding lands
devoted to farm and forest use or a determination of whether the use will
significantly increase the cost of accepted farm or forest practices on surrounding
lands devoted to farm or forest use requires:
(A) Identification and description of the surrounding lands, the farm and forest
operations on those lands, and the accepted farm practices on each farm
operation and the accepted forest practices on each forest operation.
(B) An assessment of the individual impacts to each farm and forest practice,
and whether the proposed use is likely to have an important influence or
effect on any of those practices; and
(C) An assessment of whether all identified impacts of the proposed use,
when considered together, could have a significant impact to any farm or
forest operation in the surrounding area in a manner that is likely to have
any important influence or effect on that operation.
(D) For purposes of this subsection, examples of potential impacts for
consideration may include, but are not limited to, traffic, water availability
and delivery, introduction of weeds or pests, damage to crops or livestock,
litter, trespass, reduction in crop yields or flooding.
(E) For purposes of subsections (1) and (2), above, potential impacts to farm
and forest practices or the cost of farm and forest practices, impacts
relating to the construction or installation of the proposed use shall be
deemed part of the use itself for the purpose of conducting a review under
subsections (1) and 920.
(F) In the consideration of potentially mitigating conditions of approval under
ORS m215.296(2), the decision maker may not impose such a condition
upon the owner of the affected farm or forest land or on such land itself,
nor compel said owner to accept payment to compensate for the
significant changes or significant increases in costs described in
subsections (1) and (2). [ORD. 25-16]
Section 3.9100. Dwellings in Conjunction with Farm Use [ORD. 25-16]
1) Large Tract Standards. On land not identified as high-value farmland as defined
in Section 1.0500, a dwelling may be considered customarily provided in
conjunction with farm use if:
(A) The parcel on which the dwelling will be located is at least 160 acres.
(B) The subject tract is currently employed for farm use.
(C) The dwelling will be occupied by a person or persons who will be
principally engaged in the farm use of the subject tract, such as planting,
harvesting, marketing or caring for livestock, at a commercial scale.
(D) Except for seasonal farmworker housing approved prior to 2001, there is
no other dwelling on the subject tract.
2) Farm Income Standards (non-high value farmland). On land not identified as
high-value farmland, a dwelling may be considered customarily provided in

Clatsop County Land and Water III-63 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
conjunction with farm use if:
(A) The subject tract is currently employed for the farm use on which, in each
of the last two years or three of the last five years, or in an average of
three of the last five years, the farm operator earned the lower of the
following:
1. At least $40,000 in gross annual income from the sale of farm
products; or
2. Gross annual income of at least the midpoint of the median income
range of gross annual sales for farms in the county with gross
annual sales of $10,000 or more according to the 1992 Census of
Agriculture, Oregon; and
(B) Except for seasonal farmworker housing approved prior to 2001, there is
no other dwelling on lands designated for exclusive farm use pursuant to
ORS Chapter 215 owned by the farm or ranch operator or on the farm or
ranch operation;
(C) The dwelling will be occupied by a person or persons who produced the
commodities that grossed the income in Subsection (A); and
(D) In determining the gross income required by Subsection (A):
1. The cost of purchased livestock shall be deducted from the total
gross income attributed to the farm or ranch operation;
2. Only gross income earned from land owned, not leased or rented,
shall be counted; and
3. Gross farm income earned from a lot or parcel that has been used
previously to qualify another lot or parcel for the construction or
siting of a primary farm dwelling may not be used.
4. The applicant shall submit to the County an IRS tax return
transcript with any other information the County may require that
demonstrates compliance with the gross farm income requirement,
[ORD. 25-16]
3) Farm Income Standards (high-value). On land identified as high-value farmland,
a dwelling may be considered customarily provided in conjunction with farm use
if:
(A) The subject tract is currently employed for the farm use on which the farm
operator earned at least $80,000 in gross annual income from the sale of
farm products in each of the last two years or three of the last five years,
or in an average of three of the last five years; and
(B) Except for seasonal farmworker housing approved prior to 2001, there is
no other dwelling on lands designated for exclusive farm use owned by
the farm or ranch operator or on the farm or ranch operation; and
(C) The dwelling will be occupied by a person or persons who produced the
commodities that grossed the income in Subsection (A);
(D) In determining the gross income required by Subsection (A):
1. The cost of purchased livestock shall be deducted from the total
gross income attributed to the farm or ranch operation;

Clatsop County Land and Water III-64 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
2. Only gross income earned from land owned, not leased or rented,
shall be counted; and
3. Gross farm income earned from a lot or parcel that has been used
previously to qualify another lot or parcel for the construction or
siting of a primary farm dwelling may not be used.
4. The applicant shall submit to the County an IRS tax return
transcript with any other information the County may require that
demonstrates compliance with the gross farm income requirement.
[ORD. 25-16]
4) Farm Capability Standards.
(A) On land not identified as high-value farmland, a dwelling may be
considered customarily provided in conjunction with farm use if:
1. The subject tract is at least as large as the median size of those
commercial farm or ranch tracts capable of generating at least
$10,000 in annual gross sales that are located within a study area
that includes all tracts wholly or partially within one mile from the
perimeter of the subject tract;
2. The subject tract is capable of producing at least the median level
of annual gross sales of county indicator crops as the same
commercial farm or ranch tracts used to calculate the tract size in
Subsection 1;
3. The subject tract is currently employed for a farm use at a level
capable of producing the annual gross sales required in Subsection
1;
4. The subject lot or parcel on which the dwelling is proposed is not
less than 10 acres;
5. Except for seasonal farmworker housing approved prior to 2001,
there is no other dwelling on the subject tract;
6. The dwelling will be occupied by a person or persons who will be
principally engaged in the farm use of the subject tract, such as
planting, harvesting, marketing or caring for livestock, at a
commercial scale; and
7. If no farm use has been established at the time of application, land
use approval shall be subject to a condition that no building permit
may be issued prior to the establishment of the farm use required
by Subsection 3.
8. In determining the gross sales capability required by Subsection 3:
a) The actual or potential cost of purchased livestock shall be
deducted from the total gross sales attributed to the farm or
ranch tract;
b) Only actual or potential sales from land owned, not leased or
rented, shall be counted; and
c) actual or potential gross farm sales earned from a lot or
parcel that has been used previously to qualify another lot or

Clatsop County Land and Water III-65 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
parcel for the construction or siting of a primary farm
dwelling may not be used.
(B) In order to identify the commercial farm or ranch tracts to be used in
Subsection 1, the potential gross sales capability of each tract in the study
area, including the subject tract, must be determined, using the gross
sales figures prepared by the county pursuant to OAR 660-033-
0135(2)(c).
5) Additional Farm Income Standards.
(A) For the purpose of Subsections 2) or 3), noncontiguous lots or parcels
zoned for farm use in the same county or contiguous counties may be
used to meet the gross income requirements. Lots or parcels in eastern or
western Oregon may not be used to qualify a dwelling in the other part of
the state.
(B) Prior to the final approval for a dwelling authorized by Subsections 2) and
3)  that requires one or more contiguous or non-contiguous lots or parcels
of a farm or ranch operation to comply with the gross farm income
requirements, the applicant shall complete and record with the county
clerk the covenants, conditions, and restrictions form provided by the
county (Exhibit A to OAR Chapter 660 Division 33). The covenants,
conditions and restrictions shall be recorded for each lot or parcel subject
to the application for the primary farm dwelling and shall preclude:
1. All future rights to construct a dwelling except for accessory farm
dwellings, relative farm assistance dwellings, temporary hardship
dwellings or replacement dwellings allowed by ORS Chapter 215;
and
2. The use of any gross farm income earned on the lots or parcels to
qualify another lot or parcel for a primary farm dwelling.
(C) The covenants, conditions and restrictions are irrevocable, unless a
statement of release is signed by an authorized representative of the
county or counties where the property subject to the covenants, conditions
and restrictions is located;
6) Commercial Dairy Farm Standards. A dwelling may be considered customarily
provided in conjunction with a commercial dairy farm and capable of earning the
gross annual income requirements by Subsections 2) or 3) above, subject to the
following requirements:
(A) The subject tract will be employed as a commercial dairy as defined in
Subsection (G);
(B) The dwelling is sited on the same lot or parcel as the buildings required by
the commercial dairy;
(C) Except for seasonal farmworker housing approved prior to 2001, there is
no other dwelling on the subject tract;
(D) The dwelling will be occupied by a person or persons who will be
principally engaged in the operation of the commercial dairy farm, such as
the feeding, milking or pasturing of the dairy animals or other farm use

Clatsop County Land and Water III-66 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
activities necessary to the operation of the commercial dairy farm;
(E) The building permits, if required, have been issued for and construction
has begun for the buildings and animal waste facilities required for a
commercial dairy farm; and
(F) The Oregon Department of Agriculture has approved the following:
1. A permit for a "confined animal feeding operation" under
ORS 468B.050 and 468B.200 to 468B.230; and
2. A Producer License for the sale of dairy products under
ORS 621.072.
(G) As used in this Section, "commercial dairy farm" is a dairy operation that
owns a sufficient number of producing dairy animals capable of earning
the gross annual income required by Subsections 2) or 3), whichever is
applicable, from the sale of fluid milk.
7) Relocated Farm Operations. A dwelling may be considered customarily provided
in conjunction with farm use if:
(A) Within the previous two years, the applicant owned and operated a
different farm or ranch operation that earned the gross farm income in
each of the last five years or four of the last seven years as required by
Subsection 2) or 3), whichever is applicable;
(B) The subject lot or parcel on which the dwelling will be located is:
1. Currently employed for the farm use that produced in each of the
last two years or three of the last five years, or in an average of
three of the last five years the gross farm income required by
Subsection 2) or 3), whichever is applicable; and
2. At least the size of the applicable minimum lot size under Section
4.3300;
(C) Except for seasonal farmworker housing approved prior to 2001, there is
no other dwelling on the subject tract;
(D) The dwelling will be occupied by a person or persons who produced the
commodities that grossed the income in Subsection (A); and
(E) In determining the gross income required by Subsection (A) and
Subsection (B):
1. The cost of purchased livestock shall be deducted from the total
gross income attributed to the tract; and
2. Only gross income from land owned, not leased or rented, shall be
counted.
8) Farming of a marijuana crop, and the gross sales derived from selling a
marijuana crop, may not be used to demonstrate compliance with the approval
criteria for a primary farm dwelling.
Section 3.9110. Accessory Farm Dwellings
1) Accessory farm dwellings may be considered customarily provided in conjunction
with farm use if each accessory farm dwelling meets all the following
requirements:

Clatsop County Land and Water III-67 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
(A) The accessory farm dwelling will be occupied by a person or persons who
will be principally engaged in the farm use of the land and whose seasonal
or year-round assistance in the management of the farm use, such as
planting, harvesting, marketing or caring for livestock, is or will be required
by the farm operator;
(B) The accessory farm dwelling will be located:
1. On the same lot or parcel as the primary farm dwelling;
2. On the same tract as the primary farm dwelling when the lot or
parcel on which the accessory farm dwelling will be sited is
consolidated into a single parcel with all other contiguous lots and
parcels in the tract;
3. On a lot or parcel on which the primary farm dwelling is not located,
when the accessory farm dwelling is limited to only a manufactured
dwelling with a deed restriction. The deed restriction shall be filed
with the county clerk and require the manufactured dwelling to be
removed when the lot or parcel is conveyed to another party. The
manufactured dwelling may remain if it is reapproved under these
provisions;
4. On any lot or parcel, when the accessory farm dwelling is limited to
only attached multi-unit residential structures allowed by the
applicable state building code or similar types of farmworker
housing as that existing on farm or ranch operations registered with
the Department of Consumer and Business Services, Oregon
Occupational Safety and Health Division under ORS 658.750. A
county shall require all accessory farm dwellings approved under
this Subsection to be removed, demolished or converted to a
nonresidential use when farmworker housing is no longer required.
“Farmworker housing” shall have the meaning set forth in 215.278
and not the meaning in 315.163; or
5. On a lot or parcel on which the primary farm dwelling is not located,
when the accessory farm dwelling is located on a lot or parcel at
least the size of the applicable minimum lot size under ORS
215.780 and the lot or parcel complies with the gross farm income
requirements in OAR 660-033-0135(3) or (4), whichever is
applicable; and
(C) There is no other dwelling on the lands designated for exclusive farm use
owned by the farm operator that is vacant or currently occupied by
persons not working on the subject farm or ranch and that could
reasonably be used as an accessory farm dwelling.
2) In addition to the requirements in Subsection 1), the primary farm dwelling to
which the proposed dwelling would be accessory, meets one of the following:
(A) On land not identified as high-value farmland, the primary farm dwelling is
located on a farm or ranch operation that is currently employed for farm
use, as defined in ORS 215.203, on which, in each of the last two years or

Clatsop County Land and Water III-68 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
three of the last five years or in an average of three of the last five years,
the farm operator earned the lower of the following:
1. At least $40,000 in gross annual income from the sale of farm
products. In determining the gross income, the cost of purchased
livestock shall be deducted from the total gross income attributed to
the tract; or
2. Gross annual income of at least the midpoint of the median income
range of gross annual sales for farms in the county with gross
annual sales of $10,000 or more according to the 1992 Census of
Agriculture, Oregon. In determining the gross income, the cost of
purchased livestock shall be deducted from the total gross income
attributed to the tract;
(B) On land identified as high-value farmland, the primary farm dwelling is
located on a farm or ranch operation that is currently employed for farm
use, as defined in ORS 215.203, on which the farm operator earned at
least $80,000 in gross annual income from the sale of farm products in
each of the last two years or three of the last five years or in an average of
three of the last five years. In determining the gross income, the cost of
purchased livestock shall be deducted from the total gross income
attributed to the tract; or
(C) It is located on a commercial dairy farm as defined in Section
3.9100(6)(g); and
1. The building permits, if required, have been issued and
construction has begun or been completed for the buildings and
animal waste facilities required for a commercial dairy farm;
2. The Oregon Department of Agriculture has approved a permit for a
"confined animal feeding operation" under ORS 468B.050 and
468B.200 to 468B.230; and
3. A Producer License for the sale of dairy products under
ORS 621.072.
3) No division of a lot or parcel for an accessory farm dwelling shall be approved
pursuant to this Subsection. If it is determined that an accessory farm dwelling
satisfies the requirements of this ordinance, a parcel may be created consistent
with the minimum parcel size requirements in Section 4.3300(1).
4) An accessory farm dwelling approved pursuant to this Section cannot later be
used to satisfy the requirements for a dwelling not provided in conjunction with
farm use pursuant to Section 4.3300(23).
5) For purposes of this Subsection, "accessory farm dwelling" includes all types of
residential structures allowed by the applicable state building code.
6) Farming of a marijuana crop shall not be used to demonstrate compliance with
the approval criteria for an accessory farm dwelling.
7) Accessory farm dwellings destroyed by a wildfire identified in an Executive Order
issued by the Governor in accordance with the Emergency Conflagration Act,
ORS 476.510 through 476.610, may be replaced. The temporary use of modular

Clatsop County Land and Water III-69 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
structures, manufactured housing, fabric structures, tents and similar
accommodations is allowed until replacement under this subsection occurs.
[ORD. 25-16]
8) The applicant shall submit to the County an IRS tax return transcript and  any
other information the county may require to demonstrate compliance with the
gross farm income requirements in subsections (2)(A) or (2)(B), as applicable.
[ORD. 25-16]

Section 3.9120. Lot of Record Dwellings [ORD. 25-16]
1) A lot of record dwelling may be approved on a pre-existing lot or parcel if:
(A) The lot or parcel on which the dwelling will be sited was lawfully created
and was acquired and owned continuously by the present owner as
defined in Subsection 5):
1. Prior to January 1, 1985; or
2. By devise or by intestate succession from a person who acquired
and had owned continuously the lot or parcel prior to January 1,
1985.
(B) The tract on which the dwelling will be sited does not include a dwelling;
(C) The lot or parcel on which the dwelling will be sited was part of a tract on
November 4, 1993, no dwelling exists on another lot or parcel that was
part of that tract;
(D) The proposed dwelling is not prohibited by, and will comply with, the
requirements of the acknowledged comprehensive plan and land use
regulations and other provisions of law;
(E) The lot or parcel on which the dwelling will be sited is not high-value
farmland except as provided in Subsections 3) and 4); and
(F) When the lot or parcel on which the dwelling will be sited lies within an
area designated in the comprehensive plan as habitat of big game, the
siting of the dwelling is consistent with the limitations on density upon
which the acknowledged comprehensive plan and land use regulations
intended to protect the habitat are based.
2) When the lot or parcel on which the dwelling will be sited is part of a tract, the
remaining portions of the tract are consolidated into a single lot or parcel when
the dwelling is allowed;
3) Notwithstanding the requirements of Section S3.5011)(E), a single-unit dwelling
may be sited on high-value farmland if:
(A) It meets the other requirements of Subsections 1) and 2);
(B) The lot or parcel is protected as high-value farmland as defined in OAR
660-033-0020(8)(a);
(C) The county determines that:
1. The lot or parcel cannot practicably be managed for farm use, by
itself or in conjunction with other land, due to extraordinary
circumstances inherent in the land or its physical setting that do not

Clatsop County Land and Water III-70 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
apply generally to other land in the vicinity.
a) For the purposes of this Section, this criterion asks whether
the subject lot or parcel can be physically put to farm use
without undue hardship or difficulty because of extraordinary
circumstances inherent in the land or its physical setting.
Neither size alone nor a parcel's limited economic potential
demonstrates that a lot or parcel cannot be practicably
managed for farm use.
b) Examples of "extraordinary circumstances inherent in the
land or its physical setting" include very steep slopes, deep
ravines, rivers, streams, roads, railroad or utility lines or
other similar natural or physical barriers that by themselves
or in combination separate the subject lot or parcel from
adjacent agricultural land and prevent it from being
practicably managed for farm use by itself or together with
adjacent or nearby farms.
c) A lot or parcel that has been put to farm use despite the
proximity of a natural barrier or since the placement of a
physical barrier shall be presumed manageable for farm use;
2. The dwelling will comply with the provisions of Section 3.9090; and
3. The dwelling will not materially alter the stability of the overall land
use pattern in the area by applying the standards set forth in
Section 3.9130(2).
4) Notwithstanding the requirements of Section S3.5011)(E), a single-unit dwelling
may be sited on high-value farmland if:
(A) It meets the other requirements of Subsections 1) and 2);
(B) The tract on which the dwelling will be sited is:
1. Identified in OAR 660-033-0020(8)(d);
2. Not high-value farmland defined in subsection 1 of the High-Value
Farmland definition in Section 1.0500; and
3. Twenty-one acres or less in size; and
(C) The tract is bordered on at least 67 percent of its perimeter by tracts that
are smaller than 21 acres, and at least two such tracts had dwellings on
January 1, 1993; or
(D) The tract is not a flag lot and is bordered on at least 25 percent of its
perimeter by tracts that are smaller than 21 acres, and at least four
dwellings existed on January 1, 1993, within one-quarter mile of the center
of the subject tract. Up to two of the four dwellings may lie within an urban
growth boundary, but only if the subject tract abuts an urban growth
boundary; or
(E) The tract is a flag lot and is bordered on at least 25 percent of its
perimeter by tracts that are smaller than 21 acres, and at least four
dwellings existed on January 1, 1993, within one-quarter mile of the center
of the subject tract and on the same side of the public road that provides

Clatsop County Land and Water III-71 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
access to the subject tract. The governing body of a county must interpret
the center of the subject tract as the geographic center of the flag lot if the
applicant makes a written request for that interpretation and that
interpretation does not cause the center to be located outside the flag lot.
Up to two of the four dwellings may lie within an urban growth boundary,
but only if the subject tract abuts an urban growth boundary:
1. “Flag lot” means a tract containing a narrow strip or panhandle of
land providing access from the public road to the rest of the tract.
2. “Geographic center of the flag lot” means the point of intersection of
two perpendicular lines of which the first line crosses the midpoint
of the longest side of a flag lot, at a 90-degree angle to the side,
and the second line crosses the midpoint of the longest adjacent
side of the flag lot.
5) For purposes of Subsection 1), “owner” includes the wife, husband, son,
daughter, mother, father, brother, brother-in-law, sister, sister-in-law, son-in-law,
daughter-in-law, mother-in-law, father-in-law, aunt, uncle, niece, nephew,
stepparent, stepchild, grandparent or grandchild of the owner or a business entity
owned by any one or a combination of these family members;
6) The county assessor shall be notified that the governing body intends to allow
the dwelling.
7) An approved single-unit dwelling under this Section may be transferred by a
person who has qualified under this Section to any other person after the
effective date of the land use decision.
8) The county shall provide notice of all applications for lot of record dwellings on
high value farmland to the State Department of Agriculture.  Notice shall be
provided in accordance with land use regulations and shall be mailed at least 20
calendar days prior to the public hearing.
Section 3.9130. Dwellings Not in Conjunction with Farm Use
Non-farm dwelling. A non-farm dwelling is subject to the following requirements:
1) The dwelling or activities associated with the dwelling will not force a significant
change in or significantly increase the cost of accepted farming or forest
practices on nearby lands devoted to farm or forest use;
(A) The dwelling is situated upon a new parcel, or a portion of an existing lot
or parcel, that is generally unsuitable land for the production of farm crops
and livestock or merchantable tree species, considering the terrain,
adverse soil or land conditions, drainage and flooding, vegetation, location
and size of the tract. A  new parcel or portion of an existing lot or parcel
shall not be considered unsuitable solely because of size or location if it
can reasonably be put to farm or forest use in conjunction with other land;
and
(B) A new parcel or portion of an existing lot or parcel is not "generally
unsuitable" simply because it is too small to be farmed profitably by itself.
If a parcel or portion of a lot or parcel can be sold, leased, rented or

Clatsop County Land and Water III-72 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
otherwise managed as a part of a commercial farm or ranch, then it is not
"generally unsuitable." A new parcel or portion of an existing lot or parcel
is presumed to be suitable if it is composed predominantly of Class I-IV
soils. Just because a new parcel or portion of an existing lot or parcel is
unsuitable for one farm use does not mean it is not suitable for another
farm use; or
(C) If the lot or parcel is under forest assessment, the dwelling shall be
situated upon generally unsuitable land for the production of merchantable
tree species recognized by the Forest Practices Rules, considering the
terrain, adverse soil or land conditions, drainage and flooding, vegetation,
location and size of the parcel. If a lot or parcel is under forest
assessment, the area is not "generally unsuitable" simply because it is too
small to be managed for forest production profitably by itself. If a lot or
parcel under forest assessment can be sold, leased, rented or otherwise
managed as a part of a forestry operation, it is not "generally unsuitable".
If a lot or parcel is under forest assessment, it is presumed suitable if it is
composed predominantly of soils capable of producing 50 cubic feet of
wood fiber per acre per year. If a lot or parcel is under forest assessment,
to be found compatible and not seriously interfere with forest uses on
surrounding land it must not force a significant change in forest practices
or significantly increase the cost of those practices on the surrounding
land.
2) The dwelling will not materially alter the stability of the overall land use pattern of
the area. In determining whether a proposed nonfarm dwelling will alter the
stability of the land use pattern in the area, a county shall consider the
cumulative impact of nonfarm dwellings on other lots or parcels in the area
similarly situated by applying the standards set forth in (A) through (C) below. If
the application involves the creation of a new parcel for the nonfarm dwelling, a
county shall consider whether creation of the parcel will lead to creation of other
nonfarm parcels, to the detriment of agriculture in the area by applying the
standards set forth in (A) through (C) below;
(A) Identify a study area for the cumulative impacts analysis. The study area
shall include at least 2,000 acres or a smaller area not less than 1,000
acres, if the smaller area is a distinct agricultural area based on
topography, soil types, land use pattern, or the type of farm or ranch
operations or practices that distinguish it from other, adjacent agricultural
areas. Findings shall describe the study area, its boundaries, the location
of the subject parcel within this area, why the selected area is
representative of the land use pattern surrounding the subject parcel and
is adequate to conduct the analysis required by this standard. Lands
zoned for rural residential or other urban or nonresource uses shall not be
included in the study area;
(B) Identify within the study area the broad types of farm uses (irrigated or
non-irrigated crops, pasture or grazing lands), the number, location and

Clatsop County Land and Water III-73 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
type of existing dwellings (farm, nonfarm, hardship, etc.), and the dwelling
development trends since 1993. Determine the potential number of
nonfarm/lot-of-record dwellings that could be approved under Sections
3.9120(1) and 3.9130, including identification of predominant soil
classifications, the parcels created prior to January 1, 1993 and the
parcels larger than the minimum lot size that may be divided to create new
parcels for nonfarm dwellings under ORS 215.263(4). The findings shall
describe the existing land use pattern of the study area including the
distribution and arrangement of existing uses and the land use pattern that
could result from approval of the possible nonfarm dwellings under this
Subsection; and
(C) Determine whether approval of the proposed nonfarm/lot-of-record
dwellings together with existing nonfarm dwellings will materially alter the
stability of the land use pattern in the area. The stability of the land use
pattern will be materially altered if the cumulative effect of existing and
potential nonfarm dwellings will make it more difficult for the existing types
of farms in the area to continue operation due to diminished opportunities
to expand, purchase or lease farmland, acquire water rights or diminish
the number of tracts or acreage in farm use in a manner that will
destabilize the overall character of the study area; and
3) If a single-unit dwelling is established on a lot or parcel as set forth in 3.9120 or
3.9190(1) through (3), no additional dwelling may later be sited under the
provisions of this Section. [ORD. 25-16]
Section 3.9140. Alteration, Restoration or Replacement of a Lawfully-Established
Dwelling [ORD. 23-02] [ORD. 25-16]
1) A lawfully established dwelling may be altered, restored or replaced under ORS
215.283 if the following standards are met:
(A) The dwelling to be altered, restored or replaced has, or formerly had:
1. Intact exterior walls and roof structure;
2. Indoor plumbing consisting of a kitchen sink, toilet and bathing
facilities connected to a sanitary waste disposal system;
3. Interior wiring for interior lights; and
4. A heating system
(B) An application to alter, restore or replace a lawfully established dwelling
must be submitted within three years following the date that the dwelling
last had all of the features listed in subsection (A), above.
(C) Construction of a replacement dwelling must begin no later than four years
after the date of approval for the replacement dwelling.
(D) In addition to the requirements of subsection (A), above, the dwelling to be
replaced must meet one of the following conditions:

Clatsop County Land and Water III-74 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
1. If the dwelling was eliminated due to destruction or demolition, the
dwelling must have been assessed as a dwelling for purposes of ad
valorem taxation prior to the destruction or demolition and had to
have been assessed as a dwelling for at least five years before the
date of the destruction or demolition or from the date the dwelling
was constructed and became subject to tax assessment, whichever
is later.
2. If the dwelling was not eliminated due to destruction or demolition,
the dwelling must have been assessed as a dwelling for purposes
of ad valorem taxation for at least five years before the date the
application to replace the dwelling was submitted or from the date
the dwelling was constructed and became subject to property tax
assessment, whichever is later.
(E) For replacement of a lawfully established dwelling under this section, the
following standards must be met:
1. The dwelling to be replaced must be removed, demolished or
converted to an allowable non-residential use within three months
after the date a Certificate of Occupancy was issued for the
replacement dwelling.
2. The property owner shall record a statement in the Clatsop County
deed records that the dwelling to be replaced has been removed,
demolished or converted.
3. If the dwelling to be replaced is located on a portion of the lot or
parcel that is not zoned Exclusive Farm Use, the owner shall record
a deed restriction in the Clatsop County deed records prohibiting
the siting of another dwelling on that portion of the lot or parcel. The
deed restriction shall be irrevocable unless state statutes regarding
replacement dwellings have changed to allow the lawful siting of
another dwelling. If the rules are changed, the Community
Development Director, or designee, shall record a statement in the
Clatsop County deed records verifying the change and releasing
the deed restriction.
4. The Community Development Director, or designee, shall maintain
a record of the following:
a. Lot and parcels for which dwelling to be replaced have been
removed, demolished or converted
b. Lots and parcels that do not qualify for the siting of a new
dwelling under subsection (E)(3), above, including a copy of
the recorded deed restriction
(F) Replacement dwellings must comply with all of the following standards:
1. Applicable building codes, plumbing codes, sanitation codes, and
other requirements relating to health and safety or to siting at the
time of construction
2. The replacement dwelling may be sited on any part of the same lot

Clatsop County Land and Water III-75 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
or parcel
3. Applicable siting standards, including setbacks. Siting standards
shall not be used to prohibit the siting of the replacement dwelling.
(G) If an applicant is granted a deferred replacement permit under this section,
the deferred replacement permit:
1. Does not expire, but becomes void unless the dwelling to be
replaced is removed or demolished within three months after the
deferred replacement permit is used; and
2. Shall not be transferred be sale or otherwise, except by the
applicant to the spouse or child of the applicant.
Section 3.9150. Wineries
1) A winery may be established as a permitted use if the proposed winery will
produce wine with a maximum annual production of:
(A) Less than 50,000 gallons and the winery owner:
1. Owns an on-site vineyard of at least 15 acres;
2. Owns a contiguous vineyard of at least 15 acres;
3. Has a long-term contract for the purchase of all of the grapes from
at least 15 acres of a vineyard contiguous to the winery; or
4. Obtains grapes from any combination of Subsection 1, 2, or 3; or
(B) At least 50,000 gallons and the winery owner:
1. Owns an on-site vineyard of at least 40 acres;
2. Owns a contiguous vineyard of at least 40 acres;
3. Has a long-term contract for the purchase of all of the grapes from
at least 40 acres of a vineyard contiguous to the winery;
4. Owns an on-site vineyard of at least 15 acres on a tract of at least
40 acres and owns at least 40 additional acres of vineyards in
Oregon that are located within 15 miles of the winery site; or
5. Obtains grapes from any combination of Subsection 1, 2, 3 or 4.
2) In addition to producing and distributing wine, a winery established under this
Section may:
(A) Market and sell wine produced in conjunction with the winery.
(B) Conduct operations that are directly related to the sale or marketing of
wine produced in conjunction with the winery, including:
1. Wine tastings in a tasting room or other location on the premises
occupied by the winery;
2. Wine club activities;
3. Winemaker luncheons and dinners;
4. Winery and vineyard tours;
5. Meetings or business activities with winery suppliers, distributors,
wholesale customers and wine-industry members;
6. Winery staff activities;
7. Open house promotions of wine produced in conjunction with the
winery; and

Clatsop County Land and Water III-76 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
8. Similar activities conducted for the primary purpose of promoting
wine produced in conjunction with the winery.
(C) Market and sell items directly related to the sale or promotion of wine
produced in conjunction with the winery, the marketing and sale of which
is incidental to on-site retail sale of wine, including food and beverages:
1. Required to be made available in conjunction with the consumption
of wine on the premises by the Liquor Control Act or rules adopted
under the Liquor Control Act; or
2. Served in conjunction with an activity authorized by Section
S3.5012)(B), (D), or (E).
(D) Carry out agri-tourism or other commercial events on the tract occupied by
the winery subject to subsection 5.
(E) Host charitable activities for which the winery does not charge a facility
rental fee.
3) A winery may include on-site kitchen facilities licensed by the Oregon Health
Authority under ORS 624.010 to 624.121 for the preparation of food and
beverages described in Section S3.5012)(C). Food and beverage services
authorized under Section S3.5012)(C) may not utilize menu options or meal
services that cause the kitchen facilities to function as a café or other dining
establishment open to the public.
4) The gross income of the winery from the sale of incidental items or services
provided pursuant to Section S3.5012)(C) to (E) may not exceed 25 percent of
the gross income from the on-site retail sale of wine produced in conjunction with
the winery. The gross income of a winery does not include income received by
third parties unaffiliated with the winery. At the request of the county, the winery
shall submit to the county a written statement that is prepared by a certified
public accountant and certifies the compliance of the winery with this Subsection
for the previous tax year.
5) A winery may carry out up to 18 days of agri-tourism or other commercial events
annually on the tract occupied by the winery. If a winery conducts agri-tourism or
other commercial events authorized under this Section, the winery may not
conduct agri-tourism or other commercial events or activities authorized by
Section S3.5151) to 4). The requirements of the Agri-tourism permit must be met.
6) A winery operating under this Section shall provide parking for all activities or
uses of the lot, parcel or tract on which the winery is established.
7) Events described in S3.5015) are subject to the requirements of Section
S3.5158), Agri-Tourism and other Commercial Events or Activities Permit.
8) Prior to the issuance of a permit to establish a winery under Section S3.5011),
the applicant shall show that vineyards described in Section S3.5011) have been
planted or that the contract has been executed, as applicable.
9) Standards imposed on the siting of a winery shall be limited solely to each of the
following for the sole purpose of limiting demonstrated conflicts with accepted
farming or forest practices on adjacent lands:
(A) Establishment of a setback of at least 100 feet from all property lines for

Clatsop County Land and Water III-77 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
the winery and all public gathering places unless the local government
grants an adjustment or variance allowing a setback of less than 100 feet;
and
(B) Provision of direct road access and internal circulation.
10) In addition to a winery permitted in Sections S3.5011) to S3.5019), a winery may
be established if:
(A) The winery owns and is sited on a tract of 80 acres or more, at least 50
acres of which is a vineyard;
(B) The winery owns at least 80 additional acres of planted vineyards in
Oregon that need not be contiguous to the acreage described in Section
S3.50110)(A); and
(C) The winery has produced annually, at the same or a different location, at
least 150,000 gallons of wine in at least three of the five calendar years
before the winery is established under this Subsection.
11) In addition to producing and distributing wine, a winery described in Section
S3.50110) may:
(A) Market and sell wine produced in conjunction with the winery;
(B) Conduct operations that are directly related to the sale or marketing of
wine produced in conjunction with the winery, including:
1. Wine tastings in a tasting room or other location on the premises
occupied by the winery;
2. Wine club activities;
3. Winemaker luncheons and dinners;
4. Winery and vineyard tours;
5. Meetings or business activities with winery suppliers, distributors,
wholesale customers and wine-industry members;
6. Winery staff activities;
7. Open house promotions of wine produced in conjunction with the
winery; and
8. Similar activities conducted for the primary purpose of promoting
wine produced in conjunction with the winery;
(C) Market and sell items directly related to the sale or promotion of wine
produced in conjunction with the winery, the marketing and sale of which
is incidental to retail sale of wine on-site, including food and beverages:
1. Required to be made available in conjunction with the consumption
of wine on the premises by the Liquor Control Act or rules adopted
under the Liquor Control Act; or
2. Served in conjunction with an activity authorized by Section
S3.50111)(B)2, 4, or 5;
(D) Provide services, including agri-tourism or other commercial events,
hosted by the winery or patrons of the winery, at which wine produced in
conjunction with the winery is featured, that:
1. Are directly related to the sale or promotion of wine produced in
conjunction with the winery;

Clatsop County Land and Water III-78 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
2. Are incidental to the retail sale of wine on-site; and
3. Are limited to 25 days or fewer in a calendar year; and
4. Host charitable activities for which the winery does not charge a
facility rental fee.
12) Income requirements:
(A) The gross income of the winery from the sale of incidental items pursuant
to Section S3.50111)(C) and services provided pursuant to Section
S3.50111)(D) may not exceed 25 percent of the gross income from the
on-site retail sale of wine produced in conjunction with the winery.
(B) At the request of a local government with land use jurisdiction over the site
of a winery, the winery shall submit to the local government a written
statement, prepared by a certified public accountant, that certifies
compliance with Subsection (A) for the previous tax year.
13) A winery permitted under Subsection 10):
(A) Shall provide parking for all activities or uses of the lot, parcel or tract on
which the winery is established.
(B) May operate a restaurant, as defined in ORS 624.010, in which food is
prepared for consumption on the premises of the winery.
14) Permit requirements:
(A) A winery shall obtain a permit if the winery operates a restaurant that is
open to the public for more than 25 days in a calendar year or provides for
agri-tourism or other commercial events authorized under Section
S3.50111)(D) occurring on more than 25 days in a calendar year.
(B) In addition to any other requirements, a local government may approve a
permit application under this Subsection if the local government finds that
the authorized activity:
1. Complies with the standards described in Sections S3.5011) and
2);
2. Is incidental and subordinate to the retail sale of wine produced in
conjunction with the winery; and
3. Does not materially alter the stability of the land use pattern in the
area.
(C) If the local government issues a permit under this Subsection for agri-
tourism or other commercial events, the local government shall review the
permit at least once every five years and, if appropriate, may renew the
permit.
15) A person may not have a substantial ownership interest in more than one winery
operating a restaurant, as permitted in Subsection 13).
16) Prior to the issuance of a permit to establish a winery under Subsection 10), the
applicant shall show that vineyards described in Subsection 10) have been
planted.
17) A winery operating under Subsection 10) shall provide for:
(A) Establishment of a setback of at least 100 feet from all property lines for
the winery and all public gathering places; and

Clatsop County Land and Water III-79 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
(B) Direct road access and internal circulation.
18) A winery operating under Subsection S3.50110) may receive a permit to host
outdoor concerts for which admission is charged, facility rentals or celebratory
events if the winery received a permit in similar circumstances before August 2,
2011.
19) As used in this Section:
(A) “Agri-tourism or other commercial events” includes outdoor concerts for
which admission is charged, educational, cultural, health or lifestyle
events, facility rentals, celebratory gatherings and other events at which
the promotion of wine produced in conjunction with the winery is a
secondary purpose of the event.
(B) “On-site retail sale” includes the retail sale of wine in person at the winery
site, through a wine club or over the Internet or telephone.
Section 3.9160. Agri-Tourism and Other Commercial Events
The following agri-tourism and other commercial events or activities that are related to
and supportive of agriculture may be established:
1) A single agri-tourism or other commercial event or activity on a tract in a calendar
year that is personal to the applicant and is not transferred by, or transferable
with, a conveyance of the tract, if the agri-tourism or other commercial event or
activity meets any local standards that apply and:
(A) The agri-tourism or other commercial event or activity is incidental and
subordinate to existing farm use on the tract;
(B) The duration of the agri-tourism or other commercial event or activity does
not exceed 72 consecutive hours;
(C) The maximum attendance at the agri-tourism or other commercial event or
activity does not exceed 500 people;
(D) The maximum number of motor vehicles parked at the site of the agri-
tourism or other commercial event or activity does not exceed 250
vehicles;
(E) The agri-tourism or other commercial event or activity complies with the
standards described in Sections S3.5011) and 2);
(F) The agri-tourism or other commercial event or activity occurs outdoors, in
temporary structures, or in existing permitted structures, subject to health
and fire and life safety requirements; and
(G) The agri-tourism or other commercial event or activity complies with
conditions established for:
1) Planned hours of operation;
2) Access, egress and parking;
3) A traffic management plan that identifies the projected number of
vehicles and any anticipated use of public roads:
4) Sanitation and solid waste; and]
5) Must comply with the requirements in S3.5152).
2) In the alternative to Subsections 1) and 3), the county may authorize, through an

Clatsop County Land and Water III-80 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
expedited, single-event license, a single agri-tourism or other commercial event
or activity on a tract in a calendar year by an expedited, single-event license that
is personal to the applicant and is not transferred by, or transferable with, a
conveyance of the tract. A decision concerning an expedited, single-event
license is not a land use decision, as defined in ORS 197.015. To approve an
expedited, single-event license, the governing body of a county or its designee
must determine that the proposed agri-tourism or other commercial event or
activity meets any local standards that apply, and the agri-tourism or other
commercial event or activity:
(A) Must be incidental and subordinate to existing farm use on the tract;
(B) May not begin before 6 a.m. or end after 10 p.m.;
(C) May not involve more than 100 attendees or 50 vehicles;
(D) May not include the artificial amplification of music or voices before 8 a.m.
or after 8 p.m.;
(E) May not require or involve the construction or use of a new permanent
structure in connection with the agri-tourism or other commercial event or
activity;
(F) Must be located on a tract of at least 10 acres unless the owners or
residents of adjoining properties consent, in writing, to the location; and
(G) Must comply with applicable health and fire and life safety requirements.
3) In the alternative to Subsections 1) and 2), the county may authorize up to six
agri-tourism or other commercial events or activities on a tract in a calendar year
by a limited use permit that is personal to the applicant and is not transferred by,
or transferable with, a conveyance of the tract. The agri-tourism or other
commercial events or activities must meet any local standards that apply, and the
agri-tourism or other commercial events or activities:
(A) Must be incidental and subordinate to existing farm use on the tract;
(B) May not, individually, exceed a duration of 72 consecutive hours;
(C) May not require that a new permanent structure be built, used or occupied
in connection with the agri-tourism or other commercial events or
activities;
(D) Must comply with the standards described in Sections S3.5011) and 2);
(E) May not, in combination with other agri-tourism or other commercial
events or activities authorized in the area, materially alter the stability of
the land use pattern in the area; and
(F) Must comply with conditions established for:
1) The types of agri-tourism or other commercial events or activities
that are authorized during each calendar year, including the
number and duration of the agri-tourism or other commercial events
and activities, the anticipated daily attendance and the hours of
operation;
2) The location of existing structures and the location of proposed
temporary structures to be used in connection with the agri-tourism
or other commercial events or activities;

Clatsop County Land and Water III-81 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
3) The location of access and egress and parking facilities to be used
in connection with the agri-tourism or other commercial events or
activities;
4) Traffic management, including the projected number of vehicles
and any anticipated use of public roads; and
5) Sanitation and solid waste
6) Must comply with the requirements of S3.5158).
(G) A permit authorized by this Subsection shall be valid for two calendar
years. When considering an application for renewal, the county shall
ensure compliance with the provisions of Subsection 3), any local
standards that apply and conditions that apply to the permit or to the agri-
tourism or other commercial events or activities authorized by the permit.
4) In addition to Subsections 1) to 3), the county may authorize agri-tourism or other
commercial events or activities that occur more frequently or for a longer period
or that do not otherwise comply with Subsections 1) to 3) if the agri-tourism or
other commercial events or activities comply with any local standards that apply
and the agri-tourism or other commercial events or activities:
(A) Are incidental and subordinate to existing commercial farm use of the tract
and are necessary to support the commercial farm uses or the commercial
agricultural enterprises in the area;
(B) Comply with the requirements of S3.5153)(C), (D), (E), and (F);
(C) Occur on a lot or parcel that complies with the acknowledged minimum lot
or parcel size; and
(D) Do not exceed 18 events or activities in a calendar year.
5) A holder of a permit authorized by a county under Subsection 4) must request
review of the permit at four-year intervals. Upon receipt of a request for review,
the county shall:
(A) Provide public notice and an opportunity for public comment as part of the
review process; and
(B) Limit its review to events and activities authorized by the permit,
conformance with conditions of approval required by the permit and the
standards established by Subsection 4).
6) Temporary structures established in connection with agri-tourism or other
commercial events or activities may be permitted. The temporary structures must
be removed at the end of the agri-tourism or other event or activity. Alteration to
the land in connection with an agri-tourism or other commercial event or activity
including, but not limited to, grading, filling or paving, are not permitted.
7) The authorizations provided by Section are in addition to other authorizations that
may be provided by law, except that “outdoor mass gathering” and “other
gathering,” as those terms are used in ORS 197.015 (10)(d), do not include agri-
tourism or other commercial events and activities.
8) Conditions of Approval. Agri-tourism and other commercial events permitted
under Subsections 3 and 4 are subject to the following standards and criteria:
(A) A permit application for an agri-tourism or other commercial event or

Clatsop County Land and Water III-82 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
activity shall include the following:
1) A description of the type of agri-tourism or commercial events or
activities that are proposed, including the number and duration of
the events and activities, the anticipated daily attendance and the
hours of operation and, for events not held at wineries, how the
agri-tourism and other commercial events or activities will be
related to and supportive of agriculture and incidental and
subordinate to the existing farm use of the tract.
2) The types and locations of all existing and proposed temporary
structures, access and egress, parking facilities, sanitation and
solid waste facilities to be used in connection with the agri-tourism
or other commercial events or activities;
3) Authorization to allow inspection of the event premises. The
applicant shall provide in writing a consent to allow law
enforcement, public health, and fire control officers and code
enforcement staff to come upon the premises for which the permit
has been granted for the purposes of inspection and enforcement
of the terms and conditions of the permit and the Exclusive Farm
Use Zone and any other applicable laws or ordinances.
(B) Approval Criteria.
1) The area in which the agri-tourism or other commercial events or
activities are located shall be setback at least 100 feet from the
property line.
2) No more than two agri-tourism or commercial events or activities
may occur in one month.
3) The maximum number of people shall not exceed 500 per calendar
day.
4) Notification of agri-tourism and other commercial events or
activities.
a) The property owner shall submit in writing the list of calendar
days scheduled for all agri-tourism and other commercial
events or activities by April 1 of the subject calendar year or
within 30 days of new or renewed permits to County’s
Planning Department and a list of all property owners within
500 feet of the subject property, as notarized by a title
company.
b) The list of calendar dates for all agri-tourism, commercial
events and activities may be amended by submitting the
amended list to the Department at least 72 hours prior to any
change in the date of approved dates.
c) If notice pursuant to a) is not provided, the property owner
shall provide notice by Registered Mail to the same list
above at least 10 days prior to each agri-tourism and other
commercial event or activity.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-83 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
d) The notification shall include a contact person or persons for
each agri-tourism and other commercial event or activity who
shall be easily accessible and who shall remain on site at all
times, including the person(s) contact information.
5) Hours of Operation. No agri-tourism and other commercial event or
activity may begin before 7:00 a.m. or end after 10:00 p.m.
6) Overnight camping is prohibited.
7) Noise Control:
a) All noise, including the use of a sound producing device
such as, but not limited to, loud speakers and public address
systems, musical instruments that are amplified or
unamplified, shall be in compliance with applicable state
regulations.
b) A standard sound level meter or equivalent, in good
condition, that provides a weighted sound pressure level
measured by use of a metering characteristic with an "A"
frequency weighting network and reported as dBA shall be
available on-site at all times during agri-tourism and other
commercial events or activities.
8) Transportation Management
a) Roadways, driveway aprons, driveways and parking
surfaces shall be surfaces that prevent dust, and may
include paving, gravel, cinders, or bark/wood chips.
b) Driveways extending from paved roads shall have a paved
apron, requiring review and approval by the County Road
Department.
c) The parcel, lot or tract must have direct access from a public
road or is accessed by an access easement or private road,
whereby all underlying property owners and property owners
taking access between the subject property and the public
road consent in writing to the use of the road for agri-tourism
and other commercial events or activities at the time of initial
application.
d) Adequate traffic control must be provided by the property
owner and must include one traffic control person for each
250 persons expected or reasonably expected to be in
attendance at any time. All traffic control personnel shall be
certified by the State of Oregon and shall comply with the
current edition of the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control
Devices.
e) Adequate off-street parking will be provided pursuant to
provisions of the County Off-Street Parking requirements in
Section 3.0050-3.0090.
9) Health and Safety Compliance

Clatsop County Land and Water III-84 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
a) Sanitation facilities shall include, at a minimum, portable
restroom facilities and stand-alone hand washing stations.
b) All permanent and temporary structures and facilities are
subject to fire, health and life safety requirements, and shall
comply with all requirements of the County Building Code
Division any other applicable federal, state and local laws.
c) Compliance with the requirements of the Building Codes
Division shall include meeting all building occupancy
classification requirements of the State of Oregon adopted
building code.
9) A determination that an event or activity is “incidental and subordinate” requires
consideration of any relevant circumstances, including the nature, intensity, and
economic value of the respective farm and event uses, that bear on whether the
existing farm use remains the predominate use of the tract. [ORD. 25-16]
10) A determination that an event or activity is “necessary to support” either the
commercial farm uses or commercial agricultural enterprises in the area means
that the events are essential in order to maintain the existence of either the
commercial farm or the commercial agricultural enterprises in the area. [ORD.
25-16]
Section 3.9170. Commercial Facilities for Generating Power
1) Commercial Power Generating Facility.
(A) Permanent features of a power generation facility shall not preclude more
than:
1. 12 acres from use as a commercial agricultural enterprise on high
value farmland unless an exception is taken pursuant to ORS
197.732 and OAR chapter 660, division 4; or
2. 20 acres from use as a commercial agricultural enterprise on land
other than high-value farmland unless an exception is taken
pursuant to ORS 197.732 and OAR chapter 660, division 4.
(B) A power generation facility may include on-site and off-site facilities for
temporary workforce housing for workers constructing a power generation
facility. Such facilities must be removed or converted to an allowed use
under OAR 660-033-0130(19) or other statute or rule when project
construction is complete. Temporary workforce housing facilities not
included in the initial approval may be considered through a minor
amendment request. A minor amendment request shall be subject to 660-
033-0130(5) and shall have no effect on the original approval.
2) Wind Power Generation Facility.
(A) For purposes of this ordinance a wind power generation facility includes,
but is not limited to, the following system components: all wind turbine
towers and concrete pads, permanent meteorological towers and wind
measurement devices, electrical cable collection systems connecting wind
turbine towers with the relevant power substation, new or expanded

Clatsop County Land and Water III-85 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
private roads (whether temporary or permanent) constructed to serve the
wind power generation facility, office and operation and maintenance
buildings, temporary lay-down areas and all other necessary
appurtenances, including but not limited to on-site and off-site facilities for
temporary workforce housing for workers constructing a wind power
generation facility.
1. Temporary workforce housing described in Section S3.5151)(B)
must be removed or converted to an allowed use under OAR 660-
033-0130(19) or other statute or rule when project construction is
complete.
2. Temporary workforce housing facilities not included in the initial
approval may be considered through a minor amendment request
filed after a decision to approve a power generation facility. A minor
amendment request shall be subject to 660-033-0130(5) and shall
have no effect on the original approval.
(B) For wind power generation facility proposals on high-value farmland soils,
as described at ORS 195.300(10), the governing body or its designate
must find that all of the following are satisfied:
1. Reasonable alternatives have been considered to show that siting
the wind power generation facility or component thereof on high-
value farmland soils is necessary for the facility or component to
function properly or if a road system or turbine string must be
placed on such soils to achieve a reasonably direct route
considering the following factors:
a) Technical and engineering feasibility;
b) Availability of existing rights of way; and
c) The long-term environmental, economic, social and energy
consequences of siting the facility or component on
alternative sites, as determined under Subsection 2;
2. The long-term environmental, economic, social and energy
consequences resulting from the wind power generation facility or
any components thereof at the proposed site with measures
designed to reduce adverse impacts are not significantly more
adverse than would typically result from the same proposal being
located on other agricultural lands that do not include high-value
farmland soils;
3. Costs associated with any of the factors listed in Subsection 1 may
be considered, but costs alone may not be the only consideration in
determining that siting any component of a wind power generation
facility on high-value farmland soils is necessary;
4. The owner of a wind power generation facility approved under
Subsection (B) shall be responsible for restoring, as nearly as
possible, to its former condition any agricultural land and
associated improvements that are damaged or otherwise disturbed

Clatsop County Land and Water III-86 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
by the siting, maintenance, repair or reconstruction of the facility.
Nothing in this Subsection shall prevent the owner of the facility
from requiring a bond or other security from a contractor or
otherwise imposing on a contractor the responsibility for restoration;
and
5. The criteria of Subsection (C) are satisfied.
(C) For wind power generation facility proposals on arable lands, meaning
lands that are cultivated or suitable for cultivation, including high-value
farmland soils described at ORS 195.300(10), the governing body or its
designate must find that:
1. The proposed wind power facility will not create unnecessary
negative impacts on agricultural operations conducted on the
subject property. Negative impacts could include, but are not limited
to, the unnecessary construction of roads, dividing a field or
multiple fields in such a way that creates small or isolated pieces of
property that are more difficult to farm, and placing wind farm
components such as meteorological towers on lands in a manner
that could disrupt common and accepted farming practices;
2. The presence of a proposed wind power facility will not result in
unnecessary soil erosion or loss that could limit agricultural
productivity on the subject property. This provision may be satisfied
by the submittal and county approval of a soil and erosion control
plan prepared by an adequately qualified individual, showing how
unnecessary soil erosion will be avoided or remedied and how
topsoil will be stripped, stockpiled and clearly marked. The
approved plan shall be attached to the decision as a condition of
approval;
3. Construction or maintenance activities will not result in unnecessary
soil compaction that reduces the productivity of soil for crop
production. This provision may be satisfied by the submittal and
county approval of a plan prepared by an adequately qualified
individual, showing how unnecessary soil compaction will be
avoided or remedied in a timely manner through deep soil
decompaction or other appropriate practices. The approved plan
shall be attached to the decision as a condition of approval; and
4. Construction or maintenance activities will not result in the
unabated introduction or spread of noxious weeds and other
undesirable weeds species. This provision may be satisfied by the
submittal and county approval of a weed control plan prepared by
an adequately qualified individual that includes a long-term
maintenance agreement. The approved plan shall be attached to
the decision as a condition of approval.
(D) For wind power generation facility proposals on non-arable lands,
meaning lands that are not suitable for cultivation, the requirements of

Clatsop County Land and Water III-87 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Section 3.9170(C)(4) are satisfied.
(E) In the event that a wind power generation facility is proposed on a
combination of arable and non-arable lands as described in
Subsections (C) and (D), the approval criteria of Subsection (C) shall
apply to the entire project.
3) Photovoltaic Solar Power Generation Facility. A proposal to site a photovoltaic
solar power generation facility shall be subject to the following definitions and
provisions:
(A) “Arable land” means land in a tract that is predominantly cultivated or, if
not currently cultivated, predominantly comprised of arable soils.
(B) “Arable soils” means soils that are suitable for cultivation as determined by
the governing body or its designate based on substantial evidence in the
record of a local land use application, but “arable soils” does not include
high-value farmland soils described at ORS 195.300(10) unless otherwise
stated.
(C) “Non-arable land” means land in a tract that is predominantly not
cultivated and predominantly comprised of non-arable soils.
(D) “Non-arable soils” means soils that are not suitable for cultivation. Soils
with an NRCS agricultural capability class V–VIII and no history of
irrigation shall be considered non-arable in all cases. The governing body
or its designate may determine other soils, including soils with a past
history of irrigation, to be non-arable based on substantial evidence in the
record of a local land use application.
(E) “Photovoltaic solar power generation facility” includes, but is not limited to,
an assembly of equipment that converts sunlight into electricity and then
stores, transfers, or both, that electricity. This includes photovoltaic
modules, mounting and solar tracking equipment, foundations, inverters,
wiring, storage devices and other components. Photovoltaic solar power
generation facilities also include electrical cable collection systems
connecting the photovoltaic solar generation facility to a transmission line,
all necessary grid integration equipment, new or expanded private roads
constructed to serve the photovoltaic solar power generation facility,
office, operation and maintenance buildings, staging areas and all other
necessary appurtenances. For purposes of applying the acreage
standards of this Section, a photovoltaic solar power generation facility
includes all existing and proposed facilities on a single tract, as well as
any existing and proposed facilities determined to be under common
ownership on lands with fewer than 1320 feet of separation from the tract
on which the new facility is proposed to be sited. Projects connected to the
same parent company or individuals shall be considered to be in common
ownership, regardless of the operating business structure. A photovoltaic
solar power generation facility does not include a net metering project
established consistent with ORS 757.300 and OAR chapter 860, division
39 or a Feed-in-Tariff project established consistent with ORS 757.365

Clatsop County Land and Water III-88 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
and OAR chapter 860, division 84.
(F) For high-value farmland described at ORS 195.300(10), a photovoltaic
solar power generation facility shall not preclude more than 12 acres from
use as a commercial agricultural enterprise unless an exception is taken
pursuant to ORS 197.732 and OAR chapter 660, division 4. The governing
body or its designate must find that:
1. The proposed photovoltaic solar power generation facility will not
create unnecessary negative impacts on agricultural operations
conducted on any portion of the subject property not occupied by
project components. Negative impacts could include, but are not
limited to, the unnecessary construction of roads dividing a field or
multiple fields in such a way that creates small or isolated pieces of
property that are more difficult to farm, and placing photovoltaic
solar power generation facility project components on lands in a
manner that could disrupt common and accepted farming practices;
2. The presence of a photovoltaic solar power generation facility will
not result in unnecessary soil erosion or loss that could limit
agricultural productivity on the subject property. This provision may
be satisfied by the submittal and county approval of a soil and
erosion control plan prepared by an adequately qualified individual,
showing how unnecessary soil erosion will be avoided or remedied
and how topsoil will be stripped, stockpiled and clearly marked. The
approved plan shall be attached to the decision as a condition of
approval;
3. Construction or maintenance activities will not result in unnecessary
soil compaction that reduces the productivity of soil for crop
production. This provision may be satisfied by the submittal and
county approval of a plan prepared by an adequately qualified
individual, showing how unnecessary soil compaction will be
avoided or remedied in a timely manner through deep soil
decompaction or other appropriate practices. The approved plan
shall be attached to the decision as a condition of approval;
4. Construction or maintenance activities will not result in the
unabated introduction or spread of noxious weeds and other
undesirable weed species. This provision may be satisfied by the
submittal and county approval of a weed control plan prepared by
an adequately qualified individual that includes a long-term
maintenance agreement. The approved plan shall be attached to
the decision as a condition of approval;
5. The project is not located on high-value farmland soils unless it can
be demonstrated that:
a) Non high-value farmland soils are not available on the
subject tract;
b) Siting the project on non-high-value farmland soils present

Clatsop County Land and Water III-89 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
on the subject tract would significantly reduce the project’s
ability to operate successfully; or
c) The proposed site is better suited to allow continuation of an
existing commercial farm or ranching operation on the
subject tract than other possible sites also located on the
subject tract, including those comprised of non-high-value
farmland soils; and
6. A study area consisting of lands zoned for exclusive farm use
located within one mile measured from the center of the proposed
project shall be established and:
a) If fewer than 48 acres of photovoltaic solar power generation
facilities have been constructed or received land use
approvals and obtained building permits within the study
area, no further action is necessary.
b) When at least 48 acres of photovoltaic solar power
generation have been constructed or received land use
approvals and obtained building permits, either as a single
project or as multiple facilities within the study area, the local
government or its designate must find that the photovoltaic
solar energy generation facility will not materially alter the
stability of the overall land use pattern of the area. The
stability of the land use pattern will be materially altered if the
overall effect of existing and potential photovoltaic solar
energy generation facilities will make it more difficult for the
existing farms and ranches in the area to continue operation
due to diminished opportunities to expand, purchase or
lease farmland or acquire water rights, or will reduce the
number of tracts or acreage in farm use in a manner that will
destabilize the overall character of the study area.
(G) For arable lands, a photovoltaic solar power generation facility shall not
preclude more than 20 acres from use as a commercial agricultural
enterprise unless an exception is taken pursuant to ORS 197.732 and
OAR chapter 660, division 4. The governing body or its designate must
find that:
1. The project is not located on high-value farmland soils or arable
soils unless it can be demonstrated that:
a) Non-arable soils are not available on the subject tract;
b) Siting the project on non-arable soils present on the subject
tract would significantly reduce the project’s ability to operate
successfully; or
c) The proposed site is better suited to allow continuation of an
existing commercial farm or ranching operation on the
subject tract than other possible sites also located on the
subject tract, including those comprised of non-arable soils;

Clatsop County Land and Water III-90 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
2. No more than 12 acres of the project will be sited on high-value
farmland soils described at ORS 195.300(10) unless an exception
is taken pursuant to 197.732 and OAR chapter 660, division 4;
3. A study area consisting of lands zoned for exclusive farm use
located within one mile measured from the center of the proposed
project shall be established and:
a) If fewer than 80 acres of photovoltaic solar power generation
facilities have been constructed or received land use
approvals and obtained building permits within the study
area no further action is necessary.
b) When at least 80 acres of photovoltaic solar power
generation have been constructed or received land use
approvals and obtained building permits, either as a single
project or as multiple facilities, within the study area the local
government or its designate must find that the photovoltaic
solar energy generation facility will not materially alter the
stability of the overall land use pattern of the area. The
stability of the land use pattern will be materially altered if the
overall effect of existing and potential photovoltaic solar
energy generation facilities will make it more difficult for the
existing farms and ranches in the area to continue operation
due to diminished opportunities to expand, purchase or
lease farmland, acquire water rights or diminish the number
of tracts or acreage in farm use in a manner that will
destabilize the overall character of the study area; and
4. The requirements of Sections S3.5153)(F)1, 2, 3, and 4 are
satisfied.
(H) For non-arable lands, a photovoltaic solar power generation facility shall
not preclude more than 320 acres from use as a commercial agricultural
enterprise unless an exception is taken pursuant to ORS 197.732 and
OAR chapter 660, division 4. The governing body or its designate must
find that:
1. The project is not located on high-value farmland soils or arable
soils unless it can be demonstrated that:
a) Siting the project on non-arable soils present on the subject
tract would significantly reduce the project’s ability to operate
successfully; or
b) The proposed site is better suited to allow continuation of an
existing commercial farm or ranching operation on the
subject tract as compared to other possible sites also
located on the subject tract, including sites that are
comprised of non-arable soils;
2. No more than 12 acres of the project will be sited on high-value
farmland soils described at ORS 195.300(10);

Clatsop County Land and Water III-91 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
3. No more than 20 acres of the project will be sited on arable soils
unless an exception is taken pursuant to ORS 197.732 and
OAR chapter 660, division 4;
4. The requirements of Section S3.5153)(F)4 are satisfied;
5. If a photovoltaic solar power generation facility is proposed to be
developed on lands that contain a Goal 5 resource protected under
the county's comprehensive plan, and the plan does not address
conflicts between energy facility development and the resource, the
applicant and the county, together with any state or federal agency
responsible for protecting the resource or habitat supporting the
resource, will cooperatively develop a specific resource
management plan to mitigate potential development conflicts. If
there is no program present to protect the listed Goal 5 resource(s)
present in the local comprehensive plan or implementing
ordinances and the applicant and the appropriate resource
management agency(ies) cannot successfully agree on a
cooperative resource management plan, the county is responsible
for determining appropriate mitigation measures; and
6. If a proposed photovoltaic solar power generation facility is located
on lands where the potential exists for adverse effects to state or
federal special status species (threatened, endangered, candidate,
or sensitive), or to wildlife species of concern identified and mapped
by the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife (including big game
winter range and migration corridors, golden eagle and prairie
falcon nest sites, and pigeon springs), the applicant shall conduct a
site-specific assessment of the subject property in consultation with
all appropriate state, federal, and tribal wildlife management
agencies. A professional biologist shall conduct the site-specific
assessment by using methodologies accepted by the appropriate
wildlife management agency and shall determine whether adverse
effects to special status species or wildlife species of concern are
anticipated. Based on the results of the biologist’s report, the site
shall be designed to avoid adverse effects to state or federal
special status species or to wildlife species of concern as described
above. If the applicant’s site-specific assessment shows that
adverse effects cannot be avoided, the applicant and the
appropriate wildlife management agency will cooperatively develop
an agreement for project-specific mitigation to offset the potential
adverse effects of the facility. Where the applicant and the resource
management agency cannot agree on what mitigation will be
carried out, the county is responsible for determining appropriate
mitigation, if any, required for the facility.

7. The provisions of Section S3.5153)(H)6 are repealed on January 1,

Clatsop County Land and Water III-92 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
2022.
(I) The project owner shall sign and record in the deed records for the county
a document binding the project owner and the project owner's successors
in interest, prohibiting them from pursuing a claim for relief or cause of
action alleging injury from farming or forest practices as defined in ORS
30.930(2) and (4).
(J) Nothing in this Section shall prevent the county from requiring a bond or
other security from a developer or otherwise imposing on a developer the
responsibility for retiring the photovoltaic solar power generation facility.
Section 3.9170A. Outdoor Mass Gatherings [ORD 23-02]
1) An application for an outdoor mass gathering for which the County decides that a
land use permit is required, or for any gathering of more than 3,000 persons, any
part of which is held outdoor and which continues, or can reasonably be
expected to continue, for a period exceeding that allowable for an outdoor mass
gathering, shall be allowed by the County if:
(A) The applicant has complied or can comply with the requirements for an
outdoor mass gathering permit set out in ORS 433.750 and 433.755;
(B) Permits required by the applicable land use regulations have been
granted; and
(C) The proposed gathering:
1. Is compatible with existing land uses; and
2. Does not materially alter the stability of the overall land use pattern
of the area. [ORD 23-02]
2)  A hearings officer, county planning commission or other person or body that the
county designates may make findings and approve or deny an application for a
permit under this section. A decision granting or denying a permit under this
section may be appealed to the County government body as provided in ORS
215.402 to 215.438. [ORD 23-02]
3) Notwithstanding Section 3.9170A(1), the County may not require a permit under
ORS 433.750 for events otherwise permitted under ORS 215.213(11),
215.283(4), 215.449, 215.451 or 215.452. [ORD 23-02]
4) The County may not require a land use permit for a gathering of 3,000 people or
fewer, any part of which is held outdoors. [ORD 23-02]

SECTION 3.9180. FOREST ZONE STANDARDS. [ORD. 18-02]
Section 3.9190. Residential Uses
1) A large tract forest dwelling authorized under ORS 215.740 may be allowed on
land zoned for forest use if it is sited on a tract that does not include a dwelling
and complies with other provisions of law, including the following:
(A) The tract is at least 160 contiguous acres or 200 acres in one ownership
that are not contiguous but are in the same county or adjacent counties
and zoned for forest use. A deed restriction shall be filed pursuant to

Clatsop County Land and Water III-93 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
subsection (C) for all tracts that are used to meet the acreage
requirements of this subsection.
(B) A tract shall not be considered to consist of less than 160 acres because it
is crossed by a public road or a waterway.
(C) Where one or more lots or parcels are required to meet minimum acreage
requirements:
1. The applicant shall provide evidence that the covenants, conditions
and restrictions form adopted as "Exhibit A" in OAR chapter 660,
division 6 has been recorded with the county clerk of the county or
counties where the property subject to the covenants, conditions
and restrictions is located.
2. The covenants, conditions and restrictions are irrevocable, unless a
statement of release is signed by an authorized representative of
the county or counties where the property subject to the covenants,
conditions and restrictions is located.
2) Lot of Record Dwelling.
(A) The lot or parcel on which the dwelling will be sited was lawfully created
and was acquired and owned continuously by the present owner as
defined in paragraph (D):
1. Since prior to January 1, 1985; or
2. By devise or by intestate succession from a person who acquired
and had owned continuously the lot or parcel since prior to January
1, 1985.
(B) The tract on which the dwelling will be sited does not include a dwelling;
(C) The lot or parcel on which the dwelling will be sited was part of a tract on
November 4, 1993, no dwelling exists on another lot or parcel that was
part of that tract.
(D) For purposes of this subsection, “owner" includes the wife, husband, son,
daughter, mother, father, brother, brother-in-law, sister, sister-in-law, son-
in-law, daughter-in-law, mother-in-law, father-in-law, aunt, uncle, niece,
nephew, stepparent, stepchild, grandparent or grandchild of the owner or
a business entity owned by any one or combination of these family
members.
(E) The dwelling must be located on a tract that is composed of soils not
capable of producing 5,000 cubic feet per year of commercial tree species
and is located within 1,500 feet of a public road as defined under ORS
368.001 that provides or will provide access to the subject tract. The road
shall be maintained and either paved or surfaced with rock and shall not
be:
1. A United States Bureau of Land Management road; or
2. A United States Forest Service road unless the road is paved to a
minimum width of 18 feet, there is at least one defined lane in each
direction and a maintenance agreement exists between the United
States Forest Service and landowners adjacent to the road, a local

Clatsop County Land and Water III-94 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
government or a state agency.
(F) When the lot or parcel on which the dwelling will be sited lies within an
area designated in an acknowledged comprehensive plan as habitat of big
game, the siting of the dwelling shall be consistent with the limitations on
density upon which the acknowledged comprehensive plan and land use
regulations intended to protect the habitat are based; and
(G) When the lot or parcel on which the dwelling will be sited is part of a tract,
the remaining portions of the tract shall be consolidated into a single lot or
parcel when the dwelling is allowed.
3) A  single unit “template” dwelling authorized under ORS 215.750 on a lot or
parcel located within a forest zone if the lot or parcel is predominantly composed
of soils that are:
(A) Capable of producing zero to 49 cubic feet per acre per year of wood fiber
if:
1. All or part of at least three other lots or parcels that existed on
January 1, 1993, are within a 160 acre square centered on the
center of the subject tract; and
2. At least three dwellings existed on January 1, 1993 and continue to
exist on the other lots or parcels.
(B) Capable of producing 50 to 85 cubic feet per acre per year of wood fiber if:
1. All or part of at least seven other lots or parcels that existed on
January 1, 1993, are within a 160 acre square centered on the
center of the subject tract; and
2. At least three dwellings existed on January 1, 1993 and continue to
exist on the other lots or parcels.
(C) Capable of producing more than 85 cubic feet per acre per year of wood
fiber if:
1. All or part of at least 11 other lots or parcels that existed on January
1, 1993, are within a 160 acre square centered on the center of the
subject tract; and
2. At least three dwellings existed on January 1, 1993 and continue to
exist on the other lots or parcels.
(D) Lots or parcels within urban growth boundaries may not be used to satisfy
eligibility requirements. [ORD 23-02]
(E) A dwelling is in the 160-acre template if any part of the dwelling is in the
160-acre template.
(F) Except as provided by paragraph (G), if the subject tract abuts a road that
existed on January 1, 1993, the measurement may be made by creating a
160 acre rectangle that is one mile long and 1/4 mile wide centered on the
center of the subject tract and that is to the maximum extent possible,
aligned with the road.
(G) The following applies where a tract 60 acres or larger abuts a road or
perennial stream.
1. The measurement shall be made in accordance with paragraph (F).

Clatsop County Land and Water III-95 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
However, one of the three required dwellings shall be on the same
side of the road or stream as the tract, and:
a) Be located within a 160-acre rectangle that is one mile long
and one-quarter mile wide centered on the center of the
subject tract and that is, to the maximum extent possible
aligned with the road or stream; or
b) Be within one-quarter mile from the edge of the subject tract
but not outside the length of the 160 acre rectangle, and on
the same side of the road or stream as the tract.
2. If a road crosses the tract on which the dwelling will be located, at
least one of the three required dwellings must be on the same side
of the road as the proposed dwelling. [ORD 23-02]
(H) A proposed “template” dwelling under this ordinance is allowed only if
[ORD 23-02]:
1. It will comply with the requirements of an acknowledged
comprehensive plan, acknowledged land use regulations, and other
provisions of law; [ORD 23-02]
2. It complies with the requirements of Sections 3.9240 and 3.9250;
[ORD 23-02]
3. No dwellings are allowed on other lots or parcels that make up the
tract and deed restrictions established under Sections 1.1)(C) or
4.3500(4) for the other lots or parcels that make up the tract are
met; or [ORD 23-02]
4. The tract on which the dwelling will be sited does not include a
dwelling. [ORD 23-02]
5. The lot or parcel on which the dwelling will be sited was lawfully
established. [ORD 23-02]
6. Any property line adjustment to the lot or parcel complied with the
applicable property line adjustment provisions in Section 2.9000.
[ORD 23-02]
7. Any property line adjustment to the lot or parcel after January 1,
2019, did not have the effect of qualifying the lot or parcel for the
dwelling under this section; and
8. If the lot or parcel on which the dwelling will be sited was part of a
tract on January 1, 2019, no dwelling existed on the tract on that
date, and no dwelling exists or has been approved on another lot or
parcel that was part of the tract. [ORD 23-02]
(I) Where other lots or parcels that make up a tract in Section 3.9190(3)(H):
1. The applicant shall provide evidence that the covenants, conditions,
and restrictions form adopted as “Exhibit A” in OAR Chapter 660,
Division 6 has been recorded with the Clatsop County Clerk. [ORD
23-02]

Clatsop County Land and Water III-96 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
2. The covenants, conditions, and restrictions are irrevocable, unless
a statement of release is signed by an authorized representative of
the county. [ORD 23-02]
(J) Prior to November 1, 2023, a county may allow the establishment of a
single-unit dwelling on a lot or parcel that was part of a tract on January 1,
2021, if:
1. No more than one other dwelling exists or has been approved on
another lot or parcel that was part of the tract; and
2. The lot or parcel qualifies, notwithstanding ORS 215.750(5)(h), for
a dwelling under ORS 215.750. [ORD 23-02]
4) Alteration, restoration or replacement of a lawfully established dwelling, where:
(A) The dwelling to be altered, restored, or replaced has, or formerly had:
1. Intact exterior walls and roof structures;
2. Indoor plumbing consisting of a kitchen sink, toilet and bathing
facilities connected to a sanitary waste disposal system;
3. Interior wiring for interior lights; and
4. A heating system; and [ORD. 24-01]
(B) Unless the value of the dwelling was eliminated as a result of destruction
or demolition, was assessed as a dwelling for purposes of ad valorem
taxation since the later of:
1. Five years before the date of the application; or
2. The date that the dwelling was erected upon or fixed to the land
and became subject to property tax assessment; or [ORD. 24-01]
(C) If the value of the dwelling was eliminated as a result of destruction or
demolition, was assessed as a dwelling for purposes of ad valorem
taxation prior  to the destruction or demolition and since the later of:
1. Five years before the date of the destruction or demolition; or
2. The date that the dwelling was erected upon or fixed to the land
and became subject to property tax assessment. [ORD. 24-01]
(D) For replacement of a lawfully established dwelling under this section:
1. The dwelling to be replaced must be removed, demolished or
converted to an allowable nonresidential use within three months
after the date the replacement dwelling is certified for occupancy
pursuant to ORS 455.055.
2. The replacement dwelling:
a) May be sited on any part of the same lot or parcel.
b) Must comply with applicable siting standards. However, the
standards may not be applied in a manner that prohibits the
siting of the replacement dwelling.
c) Must comply with the construction provisions of section
R327 of the Oregon Residential Specialty Code, if:
i. The dwelling is in an area identified as extreme or
high wildfire risk on the statewide map of wildfire risk
described in ORS 477.490; or

Clatsop County Land and Water III-97 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
ii. No statewide map of wildfire risk has been adopted.
[ORD. 24-01]
(E)  An application under this section must be filed within three years following
the date that the dwelling last possessed all the features listed under
subsection (A) of this section. [ORD. 24-01]
(F) Construction of a replacement dwelling approved under this subsection
must commence no later than four years after the approval of the
application under this section becomes final. [ORD. 24-01]
5) A temporary hardship dwelling is subject to the following:
(A) One manufactured dwelling, or recreational vehicle, or the temporary
residential use of an existing building may be allowed in conjunction with
an existing dwelling as a temporary use for the term of the hardship
suffered by the existing resident or relative, subject to the following:
1. The manufactured dwelling shall use the same subsurface sewage
disposal system used by the existing dwelling, if that disposal
system is adequate to accommodate the additional dwelling. If the
manufactured home will use a public sanitary sewer system, such
condition will not be required;
2. The county shall review the permit authorizing such manufactured
homes every two years; and
3. Within three months of the end of the hardship, the manufactured
dwelling or recreational vehicle shall be removed or demolished or,
in the case of an existing building, the building shall be removed,
demolished or returned to an allowed nonresidential use.
(B) A temporary residence approved under this section is not eligible for
replacement under Section 4.3500(18). Department of Environmental
Quality review and removal requirements also apply.
(C) As used in this section “hardship” means a medical hardship or hardship
for the care of an aged or infirm person or persons.
6) A new single-unit dwelling unit on a lot or parcel zoned for forest use may be
approved provided: [ORD 23-02] [ORD. 25-16]
(A) The new single-unit dwelling unit will be on a lot or parcel no smaller than
the minimum size allowed under ORS 215.780;
(B) The new single-unit dwelling unit will be on a lot or parcel that contains
exactly one existing single-unit dwelling unit that was lawfully:
1. In existence before November 4, 1993; or
2. Approved under ORS 215.130(6), 215.705, 215.720, 215.750, or
215.755;
(C) The shortest distance between the new single-unit dwelling unit and the
existing single-unit dwelling unit is not greater than 200 feet;
(D) The lot or parcel is within a rural fire protection district organized under
ORS chapter 478;

Clatsop County Land and Water III-98 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
(E) The new single-unit dwelling unit complies with the Oregon residential
specialty code relating to wildfire hazard mitigation;
(F) As a condition of approval of the new single-unit dwelling unit, in addition
to the requirements of ORS 215.293, the property owner agrees to
acknowledge and record in the deed records for the county in which the lot
or parcel is located, one or more instruments containing irrevocable deed
restrictions that:
1. Prohibit the owner and the owner’s successors from partitioning the
property to separate the new single-unit dwelling unit from the lot or
parcel containing the existing single-unit dwelling unit; and
2. Require that the owner and the owner’s successors manage the lot
or parcel as a working forest under a written forest management
plan, as defined in ORS 526.455, that is attached to the instrument;
(G) The existing single-unit dwelling unit is occupied by the owner or a
relative;
(H) The new single-unit dwelling unit will be occupied by the owner or a
relative; and
(I) The owner or a relative occupies the new single-unit dwelling unit to allow
the relative to assist in the harvesting, processing or replanting of forest
products or in the management, operation, planning, acquisition or
supervision of forest lots or parcels of the owner.
(J) If a new single-unit dwelling unit is constructed under this section, a
county may not allow the new or existing dwelling unit to be used for
vacation occupancy as defined in ORS 90.100. [ORD 23-02]
7) For single-unit dwellings, the landowner shall sign and record in the deed records
for the county a document binding the landowner, and the landowner's
successors in interest, prohibiting them from pursuing a claim for relief or cause
of action alleging injury from farming or forest practices for which no action or
claim is allowed under ORS 30.936 or 30.937.
Section 3.9200. Commercial Uses
1) A home occupation shall be subject to the requirements of Section 3.8000 and:
(A) Shall be operated by a resident or employee of a resident of the property
on which the business is located;
(B) Shall employ on the site no more than five full-time or part-time persons at
any given time;
(C)  Shall be operated substantially in:
1. The dwelling; or
2. Other buildings normally associated with uses permitted in the zone
in which the property is located, except that such other buildings
may not be utilized as bed and breakfast facilities or rental units
unless they are legal residences; and
(A) Shall not unreasonably interfere with other uses permitted in the zone in

Clatsop County Land and Water III-99 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
which the property is located.
(B) The home occupation shall be accessory to an existing, permanent
dwelling on the same parcel.
(C) No materials or mechanical equipment shall be used which will be
detrimental to the residential use of the property or adjoining residences
because of vibration, noise, dust, smoke, odor, interference with radio or
television reception, or other factors.
(D) All off-street parking must be provided on the subject parcel where the
home occupation is operated.
1. Employees must use an approved off-street parking area.
2. Customers visiting the home occupation must use an approved off-
street parking area. No more than 5 vehicles from
customers/visitors of the home occupation can be present at any
given time on the subject parcel.
(E) Retail sales shall be limited or accessory to a service.
(F) Prohibited Home Occupations
1. Retail sales or professional services, other than by appointment
only.
2. Auto or vehicle oriented activities (repair, painting, detailing,
wrecking, transportation services, or similar activities).
(G) Permitting.
1. Home occupations shall be subject to a conditional use permit
process, pursuant to Section 2.4000 and Section 3.8000, unless all
of the requirements of 2 can be met.
2. An in-home commercial activity is not considered a home
occupation and does not require a land use permit where all of the
following criteria can be met.  The in-home activity:
a) Meets the criteria under Section 3.9200(5) (A) and (C).
b) Is conducted within a dwelling only by residents of the
dwelling.
c) Does not occupy more than 25 percent of the combined floor
area of the dwelling including attached garage and one
accessory structure.
d) Does not serve clients or customers on-site.
e) Does not include the on-site advertisement, display or sale
of stock in trade, other than vehicle or trailer signage.
f) Does not include the outside storage of materials, equipment
or products.
2. A permanent facility for the primary processing of forest products may be
permitted, where the facility is:
(A) Located in a building or buildings that do not exceed 10,000 square feet in
total floor area; or
(B) Located in an outdoor area that 4oes not exceed one acre excluding
laydown and storage yards; or

Clatsop County Land and Water III-100 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
(C) Located in a combination of indoor and outdoor areas described in
Subsections (A) and (B); and
(D) Adequately separated from the surrounding properties to reasonably
mitigate noise, odor, and other impacts generated by the facility that
adversely affect forest management and other existing uses, as
determined by the governing body.
3. Private seasonal accommodations for fee hunting operations are subject to the
following requirements:
(A) Accommodations are limited to no more than 15 guest rooms as that term
is defined in the Oregon Structural Specialty Code;
(B) Only minor incidental and accessory retail sales are permitted; and
(C) Accommodations are occupied temporarily for the purpose of hunting
during either or both game bird or big game hunting seasons authorized
by the Oregon Fish and Wildlife Commission.
4. Private accommodations for fishing occupied on a temporary basis are subject to
the following requirements:
(A) Accommodations limited to no more than 15 guest rooms as that term is
defined in the Oregon Structural Specialty Code;
(B) Only minor incidental and accessory retail sales are permitted;
(C) Accommodations occupied temporarily for the purpose of fishing during
fishing seasons authorized by the Oregon Fish and Wildlife Commission;
and
(D) Accommodations must be located within one-quarter mile of fish-bearing
Class I waters.
Section 3.9210.  Utility, Power Generation, Solid Waste Uses
1) A Commercial Utility Facility for the purpose of generating power shall not
preclude more than 10 acres from use as a commercial forest operation.
2) Solid waste disposal facilities shall meet the performance and permitting
requirements of the Department of Environmental Quality under ORS 459.245,
the requirements of Section 3.9230 and shall comply with the following
requirements.
(A) The facility shall be designed to minimize conflicts with existing and
permitted uses allowed under plan designations for adjacent parcels as
outlined in policies of the Comprehensive Plan.
(B) The facility must be of a size and design to minimize noise or other
detrimental effects when located adjacent to farm, forest and grazing
dwellings(s) or a residential zone.
(C) The facility shall be fenced when the site is located adjacent to dwelling(s)
or a residential zone and landscaping, buffering and/or screening shall be
provided.
(D) The facility does not constitute an unnecessary fire hazard.  If located in a
forested area, the county shall condition approval to ensure that minimum
fire safety measures will be taken, which may include but are not limited to

Clatsop County Land and Water III-101 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
the following:
1. The area surrounding the facility is kept free from litter and debris.
2. Fencing will be installed around the facility, if deemed appropriate
to protect adjacent farm crops or timber stand.
3. If the proposed facility is located in a forested area, construction
materials shall be fire resistant or treated with a fire retardant
substance and the applicant will be required to remove forest fuels
within [30 feet] of structures.
(E) The facility shall adequately protect fish and wildlife resources by meeting
minimum Oregon State Department of Forestry regulations.
(F) Access roads or easements for the facility shall be improved to the
county’s Transportation System Plan standards and comply with grades
recommended by the Public Works Director.
(G) Road construction for the facility must be consistent with the intent and
purposes set forth in the Oregon Forest Practices Act to minimize soil
disturbance and help maintain water quality.
(H) Hours of operation for the facility shall be limited to 8 am – 7 pm.
(I) Comply with other conditions deemed necessary.
Section 3.9220.  Public and Quasi-public Uses
1) Storage structures for emergency supplies are subject to the following
requirements:
(A) Areas within an urban growth boundary cannot reasonably accommodate
the structures;
(B) The structures are located outside tsunami inundation zones and
consistent with evacuation maps prepared by Department of Geology and
Mineral Industries (DOGAMI) or the local jurisdiction;
(C) Sites where the structures could be co-located with an existing use
approved under this subsection are given preference for consideration;
(D) The structures are of a number and size no greater than necessary to
accommodate the anticipated emergency needs of the population to be
served;
(E) The structures are managed by a local government entity for the single
purpose of providing for the temporary emergency support needs of the
public; and
(F) Written notification has been provided to the County Office of Emergency
Management of the application for the storage structures.
2) Public parks may include:
(A) All uses allowed under Statewide Planning Goal 4;
(B) The following uses, if authorized in a local or park master plan that is
adopted as part of the local comprehensive plan, or if authorized in a state
park master plan that is adopted by OPRD:
1. Campground areas: recreational vehicle sites; tent sites; camper
cabins; yurts; teepees; covered wagons; group shelters; campfire

Clatsop County Land and Water III-102 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
program areas; camp stores;
2. Day use areas: picnic shelters, barbecue areas, swimming areas
(not swimming pools), open play fields, play structures;
3. Recreational trails: walking, hiking, biking, horse, or motorized off-
road vehicle trails; trail staging areas;
4. Boating and fishing facilities: launch ramps and landings, docks,
moorage facilities, small boat storage, boating fuel stations, fish
cleaning stations, boat sewage pumpout stations;
5. Amenities related to park use intended only for park visitors and
employees: laundry facilities; recreation shops; snack shops not
exceeding 1500 square feet of floor area;
6. Support facilities serving only the park lands wherein the facility is
located: water supply facilities, sewage collection and treatment
facilities, storm water management facilities, electrical and
communication facilities, restrooms and showers, recycling and
trash collection facilities, registration buildings, roads and bridges,
parking areas and walkways;
7. Park Maintenance and Management Facilities located within a park:
maintenance shops and yards, fuel stations for park vehicles,
storage for park equipment and supplies, administrative offices,
staff lodging; and
8. Natural and cultural resource interpretative, educational and
informational facilities in state parks: interpretative centers,
information/orientation centers, self-supporting interpretative and
informational kiosks, natural history or cultural resource museums,
natural history or cultural educational facilities, reconstructed
historic structures for cultural resource interpretation, retail stores
not exceeding 1500 square feet for sale of books and other
materials that support park resource interpretation and education.
(C) Visitor lodging and retreat facilities if authorized in a state park master
plan that is adopted by OPRD: historic lodges, houses or inns and the
following associated uses in a state park retreat area only:
1. Meeting halls not exceeding 2000 square feet of floor area;
2. Dining halls (not restaurants).
3) Private Campgrounds and Campsites.
(A) Campgrounds in private parks may be permitted, subject to the following:
1. Except on a lot or parcel contiguous to a lake or reservoir,
campgrounds shall not be allowed within three miles of an urban
growth boundary unless an exception is approved pursuant to
ORS 197.732 and OAR chapter 660, division 4.
2. A campground shall be designed and integrated into the rural
agricultural and forest environment in a manner that protects the
natural amenities of the site and provides buffers of existing native
trees and vegetation or other natural features between campsites.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-103 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
3. Campgrounds authorized by this rule shall not include intensively
developed recreational uses such as swimming pools, tennis
courts, retail stores or gas stations.
4. Overnight temporary use in the same campground by a camper or
camper's vehicle shall not exceed a total of 30 days during any
consecutive six-month period.
(B) Campsites within campgrounds meeting the requirements of Section
3.9220(3)(A)  and permitted pursuant to Section 3.9230 must comply with
the following:
1. Allowed uses include tent, travel trailer or recreational vehicle; yurts
are also allowed uses, subject to Section 3.9220(B)(3).
2. Separate sewer, water or electric service hook-ups shall not be
provided to individual camp sites except that electrical service may
be provided to yurts.
3. No more than one-third or a maximum of 10 campsites, whichever
is smaller, may include a yurt. The yurt shall be located on the
ground or on a wood floor with no permanent foundation.
Section 3.9230. Conditional Use Review Criteria
A use authorized in a forest zone by Sections 4.3400 and 4.3500 may be allowed
provided the following requirements or their equivalent are met. These requirements are
designed to make the use compatible with forest operations and agriculture and to
conserve values found on forest lands.
1) The proposed use will not force a significant change in, or significantly increase
the cost of, accepted farming or forest practices on agriculture or forest lands.
2) The proposed use will not significantly increase fire hazard or significantly
increase fire suppression costs or significantly increase risks to fire suppression
personnel.
3) A written statement recorded with the deed or written contract with the county or
its equivalent is obtained from the land owner that recognizes the rights of
adjacent and nearby land owners to conduct forest operations consistent with the
Forest Practices Act and Rules for uses authorized in OAR 660-006-0025
Subsection 5(c).
4) The proposed use will be compatible with vicinity uses, and satisfies all relevant
requirements of this ordinance and the following general criteria:
(A) The use is consistent with those goals and policies of the Comprehensive
Plan        which apply to the proposed use;
(B) The parcel is suitable for the proposed use considering its size, shape,
location, topography, existence of improvements and natural features;
(C) The proposed use will not alter the character of the surrounding area in a
manner which substantially limits, impairs or prevents the use of
surrounding properties for the permitted uses listed in the underlying
zoning district;

Clatsop County Land and Water III-104 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
(D) The proposed use is appropriate, considering the adequacy of public
facilities and services existing or planned for the area affected by the use;
and
(E) The use is or can be made compatible with existing uses and other
allowable uses in the area.
Section 3.9240. Siting Standards for Dwellings and Structures
The following siting criteria or their equivalent shall apply to all new dwellings and
structures in forest zones. These criteria are designed to make such uses compatible
with forest operations, to minimize wildfire hazards and risks and to conserve values
found on forest lands. A governing body shall consider the criteria in this section
together with the requirements of Section 3.9250 to identify the building site:
1) Dwellings and structures shall be sited on the parcel so that:
(A) They have the least impact on nearby or adjoining forest or agricultural
lands;
(B) The siting ensures that adverse impacts on forest operations and
accepted farming practices on the tract will be minimized;
(C) The amount of forest lands used to site access roads, service corridors,
the dwelling and structures is minimized; and
(D) The risks associated with wildfire are minimized.
2) Siting criteria satisfying Subsection 1) may include setbacks from adjoining
properties, clustering near or among existing structures, siting close to existing
roads and siting on that portion of the parcel least suited for growing trees.
3) The applicant shall provide evidence to the governing body that the domestic
water supply is from a source authorized in accordance with the Water
Resources Department's administrative rules for the appropriation of ground
water or surface water and not from a Class II stream as defined in the Forest
Practices rules (OAR chapter 629). For purposes of this section, evidence of a
domestic water supply means:
(A) Verification from a water purveyor that the use described in the application
will be served by the purveyor under the purveyor's rights to appropriate
water;
(B) A water use permit issued by the Water Resources Department for the
use described in the application; or
(C) Verification from the Water Resources Department that a water use permit
is not required for the use described in the application. If the proposed
water supply is from a well and is exempt from permitting requirements
under ORS 537.545, the applicant shall submit the well constructor's
report to the county upon completion of the well.
4) As a condition of approval, if road access to the dwelling is by a road owned and
maintained by a private party or by the Oregon Department of Forestry, the U.S.
Bureau of Land Management, or the U.S. Forest Service, then the applicant shall
provide proof of a long-term road access use permit or agreement. The road use

Clatsop County Land and Water III-105 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
permit may require the applicant to agree to accept responsibility for road
maintenance.
5) Approval of a dwelling shall be subject to the following requirements:
(A) Approval of a dwelling requires the owner of the tract to plant a sufficient
number of trees on the tract to demonstrate that the tract is reasonably
expected to meet Department of Forestry stocking requirements at the
time specified in department of Forestry administrative rules;
(B) The planning department shall notify the county assessor of the above
condition at the time the dwelling is approved;
(C) Stocking survey report:
1. If the lot or parcel is more than 10 acres in western Oregon or more
than 30 acres in eastern Oregon, the property owner shall submit a
stocking survey report to the county assessor and the assessor will
verify that the minimum stocking requirements have been met by
the time required by Department of Forestry rules;
2. Upon notification by the assessor the Department of Forestry will
determine whether the tract meets minimum stocking requirements
of the Forest Practices Act. If that department determines that the
tract does not meet those requirements, that department will notify
the owner and the assessor that the land is not being managed as
forest land. The assessor will then remove the forest land
designation pursuant to ORS 321.359 and impose the additional
tax; and
(D) The county governing body or its designate shall require as a condition of
approval of a single-unit dwelling under ORS 215.213, 215.383 or 215.284
or otherwise in a farm or forest zone, that the landowner for the dwelling
sign and record in the deed records for the county a document binding the
landowner, and the landowner's successors in interest, prohibiting them
from pursuing a claim for relief or cause of action alleging injury from
farming or forest practices for which no action or claim is allowed under
ORS 30.936 or 30.937. A governing body shall consider the criteria in this
section together with the requirements of Section 3.9250 to identify the
building site.
Section 3.9250. Fire Protection Standards for Dwellings and Structures
The following fire-siting standards or their equivalent shall apply to all new dwelling or
structures in a forest zone:
1) The dwelling shall be located upon a parcel within a fire protection district or shall
be provided with residential fire protection by contract. If the dwelling is not within
a fire protection district, the applicant shall provide evidence that the applicant
has asked to be included within the nearest such district. If the governing body
determines that inclusion within a fire protection district or contracting for
residential fire protection is impracticable, the governing body may provide an

Clatsop County Land and Water III-106 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
alternative means for protecting the dwelling from fire hazards that shall comply
with the following:
(A) The means selected may include a fire sprinkling system, onsite
equipment and water storage or other methods that are reasonable, given
the site conditions;
(B) If a water supply is required for fire protection, it shall be a swimming pool,
pond, lake, or similar body of water that at all times contains at least 4,000
gallons or a stream that has a continuous year-round flow of at least one
cubic foot per second;
(C) The applicant shall provide verification from the Water Resources
Department that any permits or registrations required for water diversion
or storage have been obtained or that permits or registrations are not
required for the use; and
(D) Road access shall be provided to within 15 feet of the water's edge for
firefighting pumping units. The road access shall accommodate the
turnaround of firefighting equipment during the fire season. Permanent
signs shall be posted along the access route to indicate the location of the
emergency water source.
2) Road access to the dwelling shall meet road design standards described in OAR
660-006-0040.
3) The owners of the dwellings and structures shall maintain a primary fuel-free
break area surrounding all structures and clear and maintain a secondary fuel-
free break area on land surrounding the dwelling that is owned or controlled by
the owner in accordance with the provisions in "Recommended Fire Siting
Standards for Dwellings and Structures and Fire Safety Design Standards for
Roads" dated March 1, 1991, published by the Oregon Department of Forestry;
and shall also demonstrate compliance with Table 3.1.
4) The dwelling shall have a fire-retardant roof.
5) The dwelling shall not be sited on a slope of greater than 40 percent.
6) If the dwelling has a chimney or chimneys, each chimney shall have a spark
arrester.
Table 3.1.  Minimum Primary Safety Zone.

Slope
Feet of Primary
Safety Zone
Feet of Additional
Primary Safety Zone
Down Slope
0% 30 0
10% 30 50
20% 30 75
25% 30 100
40% 30 150

Clatsop County Land and Water III-107 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Figure 8. Example of Safety Zone Shape.

SECTION 3.9300. YOUTH CAMPS
1) The purpose of this section is to provide for the establishment of a youth camp
that is generally self-contained and located on a parcel suitable to limit potential
impacts on nearby and adjacent land and to be compatible with the forest
environment.
2) Changes to or expansions of youth camps established prior to the effective date
of this section shall be subject to the provisions of ORS 215.130.
3) An application for a proposed youth camp shall comply with the following:
(A) The number of overnight camp participants that may be accommodated
shall be determined by the governing body, or its designate, based on the
size, topography, geographic features and any other characteristics of the
proposed site for the youth camp. Except as provided by Section
3.9300(3)(B) a youth camp shall not provide overnight accommodations
for more than 350 youth camp participants, including staff.
(B) The governing body, or its designated may allow up to eight (8) nights
during the calendar year when the number of overnight participants may
exceed the total number of overnight participants allowed undersection
3.9300(3)(A).
(C) Overnight stays for adult programs primarily for individuals over 21 years
of age, not including staff, shall not exceed 10 percent of the total camper

Clatsop County Land and Water III-108 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
nights offered by the youth camp.
(D) The use will not force a significant change in, or significantly increase the
cost of, accepted farming or forest practices on agriculture or forest lands.
(E) A campground as described in Section 4.3500(20) shall not be established
in conjunction with a youth camp.
(F) A youth camp shall not be allowed in conjunction with an existing golf
course.
(G) A youth camp shall not interfere with the exercise of legally established
water rights on adjacent properties.
4) The youth camp shall be located on a lawful parcel that is:
A. Suitable to provide a forested setting needed to ensure a primarily outdoor
experience without depending upon the use or natural characteristics of
adjacent and nearby public and private land. This determination shall be
based on the size, topography, geographic features and any other
characteristics of the proposed site for the youth camp, as well as, the
number of overnight participants and type and number of proposed
facilities. A youth camp shall be located on a parcel of at least 40 acres.
B. Suitable to provide a protective buffer to separate the visual and audible
aspects of youth camp activities from other nearby and adjacent lands.
The buffers shall consist of forest vegetation, topographic or other natural
features as well as structural setbacks from adjacent public and private
lands, roads, and riparian areas. The structural setback from roads and
adjacent public and private property shall be 250 feet unless the governing
body, or its designate sets a different setback based upon the following
criteria that may be applied on a case-by-case basis:
1) The proposed setback will prevent conflicts with commercial
resource management practices;
2) The proposed setback will prevent a significant increase in safety
hazards associated with vehicular traffic; and
3) The proposed setback will provide an appropriate buffer from visual
and audible aspects of youth camp activities from other nearby and
adjacent resource lands.
C. Suitable to provide for the establishment of sewage disposal facilities
without requiring a sewer system as defined in OAR 660-011-0060(1)(f).
Prior to granting final approval, the governing body or its designate shall
verify that a proposed youth camp will not result in the need for a sewer
system.
5) A youth camp may provide the following facilities:
A. Recreational facilities limited to passive improvements, such as open
areas suitable for ball fields, volleyball courts, soccer fields, archery or
shooting ranges, hiking and biking trails, horseback riding or swimming
that can be provided in conjunction with the site's natural environment.
Intensively developed facilities such as tennis courts, gymnasiums, and
golf courses shall not be allowed. One swimming pool may be allowed if

Clatsop County Land and Water III-109 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
no lake or other water feature suitable for aquatic recreation is located on
the subject property or immediately available for youth camp use.
B. Primary cooking and eating facilities shall be included in a single building.
Except in sleeping quarters, the governing body, or its designate, may
allow secondary cooking and eating facilities in one or more buildings
designed to accommodate other youth camp activities. Food services shall
be limited to the operation of the youth camp and shall be provided only
for youth camp participants. The sale of individual meals may be offered
only to family members or guardians of youth camp participants.
C. Bathing and laundry facilities except that they shall not be provided in the
same building as sleeping quarters.
D. Up to three camp activity buildings, not including primary cooking and
eating facilities.
E. Sleeping quarters including cabins, tents or other structures. Sleeping
quarters may include toilets, but, except for the caretaker's dwelling, shall
not include kitchen facilities. Sleeping quarters shall be provided only for
youth camp participants and shall not be offered as overnight
accommodations for persons not participating in youth camp activities or
as individual rentals.
F. Covered areas that are not fully enclosed.
G. Administrative, maintenance and storage buildings; permanent structure
for administrative services, first aid, equipment and supply storage, and for
use as an infirmary if necessary or requested by the applicant.
H. An infirmary may provide sleeping quarters for the medical care provider
(e.g. Doctor, Registered Nurse, Emergency Medical Technician, etc.).
I. A caretaker's residence may be established in conjunction with a youth
camp prior to or after June 14, 2000, if no other dwelling exists on the
subject property.
6) A proposed youth camp shall comply with the following fire safety requirements:
A. The fire siting standards in Section 3.9250.
B. A fire safety protection plan shall be developed for each youth camp that
includes the following:
1) Fire prevention measures;
2) On site pre-suppression and suppression measures; and
3) The establishment and maintenance of fire safe area(s) in which
camp participants can gather in the event of a fire.
C. Except as determined under paragraph (6)(D), a youth camp's on-site fire
suppression capability shall include:
1) A 1000 gallon mobile water supply that can access all areas of the
camp;
2) A 30 gallon-per-minute water pump and an adequate amount of
hose and nozzles;
3) A sufficient number of fire-fighting hand tools; and
4) Trained personnel capable of operating all fire suppression

Clatsop County Land and Water III-110 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
equipment at the camp during designated periods of fire danger.
D. An equivalent level of fire suppression facilities may be determined by the
governing body, or it’s designate. The equivalent capability shall be based
on the Oregon Department of Forestry's (ODF) Wildfire Hazard Zone
rating system, the response time of the effective wildfire suppression
agencies, and consultation with ODF personnel if the camp is within an
area protected by ODF and not served by a local structural fire protection
provider.
E. The provisions of paragraph (6)(C) may be waived by the governing body,
or its designate, if the youth camp is located in an area served by a
structural fire protection provider and that provider informs the governing
body in writing that on-site fire suppression at the camp is not needed.
7. The governing body, or its designate, shall require as a condition of approval of a
youth   camp, that the land owner of the youth camp sign and record in the deed
records for the county a document binding the land owner, or operator of the
youth camp if different from the owner, and the land owner's or operator's
successors in interest, prohibiting them from pursuing a claim for relief or cause
of action alleging injury from farming or forest practices for which no action or
claim is allowed under ORS 30.936 or 30.937.
SECTION 3.9400. COMMUNICATION FACILITIES SITING STANDARDS
Section 3.9410. Purpose
To accommodate the increasing communications needs of Clatsop County residents,
businesses, and visitors, while protecting the public health, safety and general welfare
and visual environment of the County, these regulations are established to:
1) Enhance the ability to provide communications services to County residents,
businesses and visitors;
2) Simplify the process for obtaining permits for Communication Facilities, while at
the same time protecting the legitimate interests of County residents;
3) Protect the County’s natural resources and visual environment from the potential
adverse visual effects of Communication Facilities, through careful design and
siting standards;
4) Limit the number of towers needed to serve the County, by requiring facilities to
be placed on existing buildings and structures where possible, and requiring co-
location of wireless communication providers on existing and new towers.

These standards shall be construed to be consistent with any federal or state standards
regulating communication facilities which pre-empt or take precedence over the
standards herein. In the event that either the federal or state government adopt
mandatory or standards more stringent than those described herein, these standards
shall be revised accordingly.
Section 3.9415. Applicability
All communication facilities towers or antennas located within Clatsop County, whether

Clatsop County Land and Water III-111 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
upon private or public lands shall be subject to Section 3.9400.
Only the following facilities shall be exempted from the application of this section:
1) Pre-existing towers or antenna. Towers and antenna existing prior to the date of
this ordinance shall not be required to meet the requirements of this section, so
long as the pre-existing towers and antenna were in compliance with all
applicable permitting requirements in effect at the time of installation and are
currently in compliance with all other required approvals, permits and exceptions.
2) Amateur (ham) and citizen band transmitters or radio stations, antennas and
microwave dishes or receivers.
3) Maintenance or repair. Maintenance, repair or reconstruction of a communication
facility and related equipment, provided that there is no change in the height or
any other dimension of the facility.
4) Emergency Communication Facilities. Temporary communication facilities for
emergency communications by public officials.
Section 3.9420. Definitions
The following definitions shall apply:
ANTENNA: An exterior transmitting or receiving device used in telecommunications that
radiates or captures radio frequency signals or electromagnetic waves, including but not
limited to directional antenna, such as panels, microwave dishes, and satellite dishes
and omni-directional antenna, such as whip antenna but not including satellite earth
stations.
ANTENNA, ATTACHED: An antenna mounted on an existing building, silo, smokestack,
water tower, utility or power pole, or other support structure other than an antenna
tower.
ANTENNA, CONCEALED (STEALTH): An antenna with a support structure that
screens or camouflages the presence of antennas and/or towers from public view, in a
manner appropriate to the site’s context and surrounding environment. Examples of
concealed antennas include manmade trees, clock towers, flag poles, light structures,
and similar structures that camouflage or conceal the presence of antennas or towers.
ANTENNA TOWER: A freestanding structure, including monopole, guyed and lattice
towers, designed and constructed primarily to support antennas and transmitting and
receiving equipment. The term includes microwave towers, common-carrier towers,
cellular telephone towers, and the like. The term includes the structure and any support
thereto.
ANTENNA TOWER HEIGHT: The distance from the average grade at the antenna
tower base to the highest point of the tower. Overall antenna tower height includes the
base pad, mounting structures and panel antennas, but excludes lighting rods and whip
antennas.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-112 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
CO-LOCATION: Locating wireless communications equipment for more than one
Communications Provider on a single structure.
COMMUNICATION FACILITIES (SECTION 1.030): Communication lines and towers,
antennas and microwave receivers.
FACILITY (COMMUNICATION): The equipment, physical plant and portion of the
property and/or building used to provide power and communication services, including
but not limited to cables and wires, conduits, pedestals, antennas, towers, concealed
structures, electronic devices, equipment buildings and cabinets, landscaping, fencing
and screening, and parking areas.
MICROCELL: A low power facility used to provide increased capacity to
telecommunications demand areas or provide infill coverage in areas of weak reception,
including a separate transmitting and receiving station serving the facility.
UNREASONABLE ADVERSE IMPACT: The proposed project would produce an end
result which is:
1. out-of-character with the designated scenic, natural, historic, and cultural
resources affected, including existing buildings, structures, and features within
the designated resource area, and
2. would diminish the scenic, natural, historic, and cultural value of the designated
resource.
Section 3.9425. Zoning/Where Permitted
Communication Facilities are permitted as a principal or conditional use on a property
as follows:

Clatsop County Land and Water III-113 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Zoning District Attached
Antennas
Concealed
(stealth)
antennas
Microcell
Towers
Antenna Towers-New
Facilities
CBR, CR, RSA-
SFR, SFR-1 -- -- -- --
RA-1, RA-2, RA-5,
RSA-MFR, RC-
MFR, KS-RCR,
RCR, AC-RCR
P P -- --
F-80 P P(1) P(80' or less
in height) 1
CUP II (100' or less in
height) 1
CUP IIa (Towers > 100') 1
AF, EFU P P(1) P(80' or less
in height) 1
CUP II (Towers < 200' in
height)1
CUP IIa (Towers >200' in
height)1
TC, NC P P
P (60' or less
in height)

P(60' or less in height)
CUP II (Towers >60')
GC, RCC P P P(80' or less
in height)
P(80' or less in height)
CUP II (Towers > 80')
HI P P P(80' or less
in height)
P(100' or less in height)
CUP II (Towers > 100')
MI P P P(80' or less
in height)
P(80' or less in height)
CUP II (Towers > 80')
LI, RCI, RCC-LI P P P(80' or less
in height)
P(80' or less in height)
CUP II (Towers > 80')
QM, UGB -- -- -- --
OPR, RM -- -- -- --
LW -- -- -- --
CS, NS, EAC -- -- -- --
AD P P P (60' or less
in height)
RUII (Towers 60' or less in
height)
AC-2, AC-1, AN, NU -- -- -- --
NAC-2, MR -- -- -- --

P-   Permitted by Type I Administrative Review {Section 2.1010}
CUP (II)-  Type II Conditional Use Permit Review {Section 2.1020, 2.4000-2.4050}
CUP(IIa)-  Type II(a) Hearing’s Officer Conditional Use Permit Review {Section 2.1030, 2.4000-2.4050}
RU(II)-   Type II Review Use Permit Review {Section 2.1020, 2.5000-2.5040)
- -   Not Permitted
Special Conditions
(1): Project shall comply with Standards Section 3.9090 (Farm/Forest Zone Use Standards)

Clatsop County Land and Water III-114 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Section 3.9430. Preferred Communication Facilities
The order of preference for new permanent Communication Facilities is, from most
preferred to least preferred.
1) Co-location on existing Communication Facilities; (if not technically feasible,
then;)
2) Attached antennas (if not technically feasible, then;)
3) Concealed antennas (if not technically feasible, then;)
4) Microcell antenna towers (if not technically feasible; then;)
5) New Communication Facilities tower.

New Communication Facilities shall use the most preferred facility type where
technically feasible. A lesser preferred facility type shall only be allowed if the applicant
provides substantial evidence as outlined in Section 3.9450(5)(C),1)-7), or it can be
demonstrated that the proposed facility will have a lesser visual impact than the use of
more preferred facilities.
Section 3.9435. Facilities on Residential Properties
Communication Facilities may not be placed on properties or buildings zoned primarily
for residential purposes, except as permitted by Section 3.9425 (Zoning/Where
Permitted). This does not apply to buildings on farm and forest parcels containing
dwelling units.
Section 3.9440. Facilities at Scenic, Natural, Historic and Cultural Areas
Communication Facilities may be located on a scenic, natural, historic and cultural site
or structure subject to approval of a Type II(a) conditional use permit by the County
Hearing’s Officer. Communication Facilities shall not create an unreasonable adverse
impact toward the view from any public park, natural scenic vista, historical building,
major scenic and view corridor or residential area. In determining the potential
unreasonable adverse impact of the proposed facility upon designated scenic, natural,
historic and cultural resources, the Hearing’s Officer shall consider the following factors:
1) The extent to which the proposed communications facility is visible from the
viewpoint(s) of the impacted designated resource;
2) The type, number, height and proximity of existing structures and features, and
background features within the same line of sight as the proposed facility;
3) The amount of vegetative screening;
4) The distance of the proposed facility from the impacted designated resource;
5) The presence of reasonable alternatives that allow the facility to function
consistently with its purpose.
Section 3.9445. Communication Facilities Spacing
Antenna towers over 60 feet in height shall be located at least 2,640 feet from other
Communication Facilities over 60 feet in height. Alternative spacing requirements may
only be approved under the Conditional Development and Use process in accordance
with Section 2.4050 and where it is demonstrated that the location of the towers will

Clatsop County Land and Water III-115 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
take advantage of an existing natural or artificial feature to conceal the facility or
minimize its visual impacts.
Section 3.9450. Requirements and Performance Standards
All Communication Facilities must demonstrate compliance with the following standards
prior to County approval.
1) Antenna Tower and Equipment Setbacks.
(A) Attached antennas. Attached antennas and other appurtenances may
encroach up to 2 feet into the minimum building setbacks in the underlying
zoning district, but shall not extend over property lines.
(B) Concealed (stealth) antennas. Minimum setbacks for concealed antennas
are the same as the minimum building setbacks in the underlying zone.
(C) Communication Facilities, other than attached and concealed antennas.
Minimum setbacks for Communication Facilities are as follows:
1. From property lines or dedicated public right-of-way of properties
zoned GC, TC, NC, HI, MI, LI, AF, F-80, EFU, TC, NC and AD
when located adjacent to residential zoning- facilities shall be set
back by a distance greater than or equal to two times the height of
the structure.
2. From property lines or dedicated public right-of-way of properties
adjacent to the Oregon Department of Transportation’s Scenic
Byways for Highway 101 (Pacific Coast Scenic Byway) and
Highway 30 (All American Road) (Refer to Figure 11- Oregon
Scenic Byways)- facilities shall be set back by a distance greater
than or equal to two times the height of the structure.
3. All Communication Facilities, other than attached and concealed
antennas, not located adjacent to residential zoning or the Oregon
Scenic Byways of Highway 101 or 30, shall comply with the
minimum setback requirements of the underlying zoning district.
4. Alternative setbacks may only be approved under the Conditional
Development and Use process in accordance with Section 5.030
and where it is demonstrated that the location of the proposed
facility will take advantage of an existing natural or artificial feature
to conceal the facility or minimize its visual impacts.
(D) Guy wires and equipment buildings and cabinets. Minimum setbacks for
guy wires and equipment buildings and cabinets are the same as the
minimum building setbacks in the underlying zone.
2) Equipment Design.
(A) Attached antennas on a roof may extend up to 15 feet over the height of
the building or structure, and may exceed the underlying zone height limit.
Alternative height limits for attached antennas may only be approved
under the Type I Administrative Review process (Section 2.015) and
where it is demonstrated that the location of the antenna(s) will take

Clatsop County Land and Water III-116 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
advantage of an existing natural or artificial feature to conceal the facility
or minimize its visual impacts. Attached antennas on a roof shall be
located as close to the center of the roof as possible. Attached antennas
mounted on a building or structure wall shall be as flush to the wall as
technically possible, and shall not project above the top of the wall.
Attached antennas and equipment shall be located, painted and/or
screened to be architecturally and visually compatible with the building or
structure it is attached on.
(B) Microcell antenna towers may contain up to three whip or panel antennas.
Microcell antenna towers shall be painted or coated in a uniform non-
reflective color that blends with the surrounding built and natural
environment. The use of wood poles is further encouraged.
(C) Communication Facility antenna towers shall be painted or coated in a
uniform non- reflective metallic color or other color that blends with the
surrounding built and natural environment, unless state or federal
regulations require different colors.
(D) Communication Facility antenna towers shall not be artificially lighted
except as required by the FAA or other state or federal agency. If safety
lighting is required by the FAA, the  use of red beacons is preferred to
flashing strobe lights. Security lighting on the site may be mounted up to
20 feet in height, and shall be directed towards the ground to reduce light
pollution, prevent offsite light spillage, and avoid illuminating the tower.
(E) Equipment buildings shall be compatible with the architectural style of the
surrounding built environment considering exterior materials, roof form,
scale, mass, color, texture and character. Equipment buildings shall be
constructed with materials that are equal to or better than the materials of
the principal use. Equipment cabinets shall be located, painted and/or
screened to be architecturally and visually compatible with the surrounding
built and natural environment.
(F) Equipment shall not generate noise in excess of federal, state and local
noise regulations. This does not apply to generators used in emergency
situations where the regular power supply for a facility is temporarily
interrupted.
3) Site Design. All Communication Facilities shall be designed to blend into the
surrounding environment to the greatest extent feasible. The following measures
shall be implemented:
(A) Screening and landscaping appropriate to the context of the site and in
harmony with the character of the surrounding environment is required
when any part of the Communication Facility is visible from a public right-
of-way or adjacent properties. Fencing may be up to 8 feet in height.
Natural materials shall be used for screening and fencing to the maximum
extent possible. Wire fencing, if utilized, shall be screened from public
view. If a facility fronts on a public street or abuts a residential zone, a
combination of hedges and/or evergreen trees (at least 4 feet in height

Clatsop County Land and Water III-117 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
when planted) shall be planted along the roadway or around the facility to
provide a continuous visual screen.
(B) Existing vegetation and grades on the site shall be preserved as much as
possible.
(C) Signage at the site is limited to non-illuminated warning and equipment
identification signs. This does not apply to concealed antennas that are
incorporated into freestanding signs. Signs shall be designed subject to
the standards in Section 3.0130.
(D) Communication Facilities shall not include staffed offices, long term
vehicle storage or other outdoor storage, or other uses not needed to
send, receive or relay transmissions.
4) Radio Frequency Emission Standards. All existing and proposed
Communication Facilities are prohibited from exceeding or causing other facilities
to exceed the radio frequency emission standards specified by Part 1, Practice
and Procedure, Title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations, Section 1.1310,
Radio Frequency Radiation Exposure Limits. A statement by a licensed
professional engineer shall be provided demonstrating that the proposed facility
complies with all FCC standards for radio emissions.
5) Co-location Requirements for Communication Facilities.
(A) Communication Facilities providers shall cooperate to achieve co-location
of facilities and equipment. Communication Facilities providers shall not
act to exclude other providers from co-locating on the same tower when
co-location is structurally and technically possible. Competitive conflict
shall not be considered an adequate reason to preclude co-location.
(B) In addition to equipment proposed for the applicant’s use, proposed
Communication Facilities shall be designed in all respects to
accommodate both the applicant’s antenna and comparable antenna for at
least two (2) additional users if the antenna tower is over 100 feet in height
or for at least one (1) additional comparable antenna if the antenna tower
is between 60 feet and 100 feet in height.
(C) Availability of suitable existing towers or other structures for co-location.
No new tower shall be permitted unless the applicant demonstrates that
no existing tower or structure can accommodate the applicant’s proposed
antenna by co-locating. Evidence submitted to demonstrate that no
existing tower or structure can accommodate the applicant’s proposed
antenna may consist of the following:
1. No existing towers or structures are located within the geographic
area required to meet the applicant’s engineering requirements.
2. Existing towers or structures are not of sufficient height to meet the
applicant’s engineering requirements.
3. Existing towers or structures do not have sufficient structural
strength to support the applicant’s proposed antenna and related
equipment and cannot be reinforced to provide sufficient structural
strength.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-118 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
4. The applicant’s proposed antenna would cause electromagnetic
interference with the antenna on the existing tower and structures,
or the antenna on the existing towers and structures would cause
interference with the applicant’s proposed antenna.
5. The fees or costs required to share an existing tower or structure or
to adapt an existing tower or structure for sharing are
unreasonable. Costs below new tower development are presumed
reasonable.
6. Property owners or owners of existing towers or structures that are
unwilling to accommodate the applicant’s needs.
7. The applicant demonstrates that there are other limiting factors that
render existing towers and structures unsuitable.
6) Exceptions to Co-location.
(A) The Community Development Director may reduce the required shared
capacity described in Section 3.9450(5), if an antenna tower necessary to
provide for such sharing dominates and adversely alters the areas visual
character.
(B) If conditions for approval of a Communication Facilities include co-
location, and:
1. The tower owner is not willing to provide space for other carriers
when it would not impair the structural integrity of the tower or
cause interference; or
2. The tower owner modifies the structure in a way to make co-
location impractical or impossible; then the development and
building permit and any related administrative or conditional use
review or variance may be revoked by the Board of County
Commissioners after a notice and a hearing. If approval is revoked,
the Communication Facilities shall be removed at the owner’s
expense.
7) Abandonment. Communication Facilities will be considered abandoned if they
are unused by all providers at the facility for a period of 180 consecutive days.
Determination of abandonment shall be made by the Community Development
Director, who shall have the right to demand documentation from the facility
owner regarding the tower or antenna usage. Upon determination of
abandonment, the facility owner shall have 90 days to:
(A) Reuse the facility, or transfer the facility to another owner who will reuse it;
or
(B) Remove the facility. If the facility is not reused or removed within 90 days
of determination of abandonment County approval shall expire, and the
County may remove the facility at the facility and/or property owner’s
expense.
8) Modification to Existing Facilities or Pre-existing Facilities.
(A) Addition of equipment for co-location of additional Communication Facility
providers on existing antenna towers and sites are not subject to the

Clatsop County Land and Water III-119 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
conditional use review process, if the tower height remains unchanged.
Addition of equipment for co-location of additional Communication Facility
providers on existing legal nonconforming antenna towers is not
considered a nonconforming use expansion, and is exempt from Section
3.1000 (Nonconforming Uses), if the tower height remains unchanged.
Minor modifications to an existing Communications Facility shall be
subject to the Type I Administrative Review process as outlined in Section
2.1010 (Type I Procedure). Proposed modifications or additions shall be
submitted to the Community Development Director for approval if
consistent with provisions of applicable communication facility siting
standards.
(B) Minor and Major Modifications; the following definitions shall apply:
1. Minor modifications: The addition of equipment and no more than
two (2) antenna arrays to any existing tower, so long as the addition
of the antenna arrays add no more than twenty (20) feet in height to
the facility. Minor modifications requested by the applicant may be
approved under Section 2.1010 (Type I Procedure) if such changes
are consistent with the purposes and general character of the
original application.
2. Major modifications: Major modifications are any that exceed the
definition of minor modifications. Major modifications to towers
allowed under these regulations shall be subject to conditional use
review.
9) Building Codes and Safety Standards. To insure the structural integrity of
communication facilities, the owner of a facility shall insure that it is constructed,
operated, and maintained in compliance with the standards contained in
applicable local, state and federal building codes and the applicable standards
for telecommunication facilities, as amended from time to time.
Section 3.9455. Application Submittal Requirements
1) Application Contents: Applications for administrative or conditional use review
of proposed Communication Facilities, and additions or modifications to existing
facilities, shall include the following:
(A) A site plan showing the location and legal description of the site; on-site
land uses and zoning; adjacent roadways; parking and access; areas of
vegetation and landscaping to be added, retained, replaced or removed;
setbacks from property lines; and the location of the facility, including all
related improvements and equipment.
(B) A vicinity map showing adjacent properties, land uses, zoning and
roadways: within 500 feet of the proposed attached antenna site, proposed
concealed (stealth) antenna, microcell antenna tower or a proposed
Communication Facility tower.
(C) Elevation drawings of the proposed facility showing all antennas, towers,
structures, equipment buildings and cabinets, fencing, screening,

Clatsop County Land and Water III-120 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
landscaping, lighting, and other improvements related to the facility,
showing specific materials, placement and colors.
(D) Photorealistic renderings (photo simulations) of the site after antenna tower
construction, demonstrating the true impact of the antenna on the
surrounding visual environment. The Community Development Director may
request photorealistic renderings of the site from specific vantage points.
This requirement does not apply to facilities permitted under the
administrative review process, unless such information is requested by the
Community Development Director.
(E) A report describing the facility and the technical, economic and other
reasons for its design and location, the need for the facility and its role in the
network; and describing the capacity of the structure, including the number
and type of antennas it can accommodate.
(F) The FAA response to the Notice of Proposed Construction of Alteration
(FAA Form 7460-1), if the facility is located near an airport or a flight path.
(G) A statement from the applicant verifying that the request has been
submitted to the Oregon State Aeronautics Division for a formal response.
(H) A copy of the provider’s Federal Communication Commission (FCC) license
verifying that the applicant is authorized by the licensing guidelines of the
FCC.
(I) A letter of intent to allow co-location on the antenna tower as provided in
Section 3.9450(5)(Co-Location), if the Communication Facility is taller than
60 feet.
(J) A letter of intent to remove the facility at the expense of the facility and/or
property owner if it is abandoned, as provided by Section
3.9450(7)(Abandonment). The letter shall include a signed statement by the
property owner consenting the County entry to the property to remove an
abandoned facility.
(K) Proof of ownership of the land upon which a Communication Facility is
proposed to be constructed, or installed, or a copy of an appropriate
easement, lease or rental agreement.
(L) A statement by a licensed professional engineer shall be provided
demonstrating that the proposed facility complies with all FCC standards for
radio emissions.
2) Copies. The Community Development Director may request additional copies of
any submittal item for staff and agency review.
3) Facility Inventory. The first application for a proposed Communication Facility
by a provider shall include a detailed inventory of all the provider’s existing and
approved facilities within Clatsop County, and all incorporated areas within the
County.
Section 3.9460. Application Review
1) Administrative Type I Review. Applications for proposed Communications
Facilities subject to administrative review shall be reviewed by the Community

Clatsop County Land and Water III-121 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Development Director for conformity with the requirements of 3.9425
(Zoning/Where Permitted) and 4.9450 (Requirements and Performance
Standards) as well as the criteria identified in Section 2.1160 (Development
Permit Decision). The Community Development Director shall render a decision
to approve, approve with conditions or deny approval of the proposal within 45
days of submittal of the application. Any decision to deny a request to place,
construct or modify facilities shall be in writing and shall include specific reasons
for the action. A decision by the Community Development Director may be
appealed by the applicant within 10 days of the decision to the County Hearing’s
Officer as specified in Section 2.2190 (Request for Review). The fee for Type I
administrative review of a proposed Communication Facility shall be paid when
the application is submitted. A Pre-application conference may be required at the
discretion of the Community Development Director in accordance with Section
2.1070 (Preapplication conference).
2) Conditional Use Permit Review. Applications for proposed Communications
Facilities subject to Type II (Section 2.1020) or Type II(a) (Section 2.1030)
conditional use review shall be reviewed for conformity with the requirements of
3.9425 (Zoning/Where Permitted) and 3.9450 (Requirements and Performance
Standards) as well as the criteria set forth within Section 2.4000-2.4050
(Conditional Use). The Community Development Director or Hearing’s Officer
shall render a decision within 150 days of receipt of a complete application. Any
decision to deny a request to place, construct or modify facilities shall be in
writing and shall include specific reasons for the action. A decision by the
Community Development Director or Hearing’s Officer may be appealed within
10 days of the decision to the Board of County Commissioners as specified in
Section 2.2190 (Request for Review). The fee for the conditional use review of a
proposed Communication Facility shall be paid when the application is submitted.
A Pre-application conference may be required at the discretion of the Community
Development Director in accordance with Section 2.1070 (Pre-application
conference).
3) Technical Issues and Expert Review. Communications Facilities may involve
complex technical issues that require review and input by independent experts.
The Community Development Director may require the applicant to pay
reasonable costs of a third party technical study for a proposed Communication
Facility. Selection of expert(s) to review the proposal shall be the sole discretion
of the County.
4) Development and Building Permits. Development and/or building permits shall
not be issued until the facility is approved through the administrative or
conditional use review process.
SECTION 3.9500. VEHICLE ACCESS CONTROL AND CIRCULATION
Section 3.9510. Purpose [ORD. 21-05] [ORD. 25-02]
The following access control standards are intended to promote safe access and egress
to properties, while maintaining traffic operations in conformance with adopted

Clatsop County Land and Water III-122 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
standards and as required by the Clatsop County Transportation System Plan (TSP).
“Safety” for the purposes of this section, extends to all modes of transportation.
Section 3.9520. Definitions [ORD. 25-02]
The following definitions apply to this section.
ACCESS. The place, way or means by which pedestrians, bicycles, and vehicles enter
or leave property.
ACCESS MANAGEMENT. The control of street (or highway) access for the purpose of
improving the efficiency safety, and/or operation of the roadway; may include
prohibiting, closing, or limiting direct vehicle access to a roadway from abutting
properties, either with physical barriers (curbs, medians, etc.) or by land dedication or
easement.
CLEAR VISION AREA: Corner areas at intersection streets, railroads and/or driveways
in which unobstructed vision of motor vehicle operators is maintained.
FIRE EQUIPMENT ACCESS DRIVE. A road which complies with the requirements for
fire apparatus access roads as described in the Uniform Fire Code.
FLAG LOT. A lot that has access to a public right-of-way by means of a narrow strip of
land.
FRONTAGE ROAD. A public or private street that is parallel to an arterial road, and
which provides access to abutting properties while separating them from the arterial
street.
SHARED DRIVEWAY. A driveway connecting two or more contiguous sites to the
public street system.”
Section 3.9530. Clear Vision Area [ORD. 21-05] [ORD. 25-02]
1) A clear vision area shall be maintained on the corners of all property at the
intersection of:
(A) two streets
(B) a street and an alley
(C) a street and a driveway
(D) a street and a railroad.
2) Clear vision areas shall be delineated by using the following information:
(A) A clear vision area is in the shape of a triangle and extends across the
corner of a lot or parcel to the edge of the right-of-way as shown in
Example 1.
(B) Where the lot lines have rounded corners, the lot lines extend in a straight
line to a point of intersection as shown in Example 2.
(C) No fences, walls, vehicle parking, signs, buildings, or structures between a
height of 2.5’ and 8’ shall be allowed within the clear vision area, as shown

Clatsop County Land and Water III-123 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
in Example 3. Street signs, stop signs and other traffic control signs are
exempt from this requirement.
(D) Placement of light poles, utility poles and new trees should be avoided
within vision clearance areas.
(E) Existing trees must have all branches and foliage removed to a height of 8
feet above the grade.
(F) The following clear vision areas are required:

Type of Intersection  Minimum Clear Area
Intersection of Two
Streets

Agricultural Zones  30’
Residential Zones 30’
All Other Zones 15’
Exception: If angle of
the intersection is less
than 30°
25’
Intersection of a Street
and a Railroad
25’
Intersection of a Street
and an Alley
10’
Intersection of a Street
and a Driveway
10’

Clear Vision Area Example 1: Intersection of two streets. Minimum measurements
shown for example only.  Refer to table in subsection (6) for required distances.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-124 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

Clear Vision Area Example 2:
Intersection of street and driveway and
street and railroad with rounded lot
corners. Minimum measurements
shown for example only.  Refer to table
in subsection (F) for required distances.
Railroad
Clear Vision Area Example 3: Walls, fences or other structures between the height of
2.5’ and 8’ are not permitted in the clear vision area.
Clear Vision Area
Maximum height 2.5’ for walls or solid fences, trees,
shrubs and other structures

Clatsop County Land and Water III-125 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Section 3.9540. Access Control Standards [ORD. 21-05] [ORD. 25-16]
1) Traffic Impact Study Requirements. The County or other agency with access
jurisdiction may require a traffic impact study prepared by a qualified professional
to determine access, circulation and other transportation requirements. (See,
Section 2.9510 – Traffic Impact Study.)
2) The County or other agency with access permit jurisdiction may require the
closing or consolidation of existing curb cuts or other vehicle access points,
recording of reciprocal access easements (i.e., for shared driveways),
development of a frontage street, installation of traffic control devices, and/or
other mitigation as a condition of granting an access permit, to ensure the safe
and efficient operation of the street and highway system.
3) Access Options. When vehicle access is required for development (i.e., for off-
street parking, delivery, service, drive-through facilities, etc.), access shall be
provided by one of the following methods (a minimum of 10 feet per lane is
required). These methods are “options” to the developer/subdivider.
(A) Option 1. Access is from an existing or proposed alley or mid-block lane.
If a property has access to an alley or lane, direct access to a public street
is not permitted.
(B) Option 2. Access is from a private street or driveway connected to an
adjoining property that has direct access to a public street (i.e., “shared
driveway”). A public access easement covering the driveway shall be
recorded in this case to assure access to the closest public street for all
users of the private street/drive.
(C) Option 3. Access is from a public street adjacent to the development
parcel. If practicable, the owner/developer may be required to close or
consolidate an existing access point as a condition of approving a new
access. Street accesses shall comply with the access spacing standards
in Subsection (6) below.
(D) Access to and from off-street parking areas shall not permit backing onto a
public street. Except that in limited situations where no alternative design
is possible and sight distances are acceptable, parking areas having three
or fewer spaces may allow for backing onto a collector or local street
subject to the approval of the Public Works Director, County Engineer or
designee.
4) Subdivisions Fronting onto an Arterial Street. New residential land divisions
fronting onto an arterial street shall be required to provide alleys or secondary
(local or collector) streets for access to individual lots. When alleys or secondary
streets cannot be constructed due to topographic or other physical constraints,
access may be provided by consolidating driveways for clusters of two or more
lots (e.g., includes flag lots and mid- block lanes).

Clatsop County Land and Water III-126 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
5) Double-Frontage Lots. When a lot has frontage onto two or more streets,
access shall be provided first from the street with the lowest classification. For
example, access shall be provided from a local street before a collector or arterial
street. Except for corner lots, the creation of new double-frontage lots shall be
prohibited in the RSA-SFR, RSA-MFR, CR, SFR-1, RA-1, RA-5, or CBR Zones,
unless topographic or physical constraints require the formation of such lots.
When double-frontage lots are permitted in the RSA- SFR, RSA-MFR, CR, SFR-
1, RA-1, RA-5, or CBR Zones, a landscape buffer with trees and/or shrubs and
ground cover not less than 20 feet wide shall be provided between the back yard
fence/wall and the sidewalk or street; maintenance shall be assured by the owner
(i.e., through homeowner’s association, etc.).
6) Reverse Frontage Lots. When a lot has frontage opposite that of the adjacent
lots, access shall be provided from the street with the lowest classification.
7) Access Spacing. The access spacing standards below shall apply to newly
established public street intersections, private drives, and non-traversable
medians unless the Public Works Director, County Engineer or designee
determines that site and or road conditions make it impractical  to meet the
access spacing standard.

Access Spacing
Functional
Classification Posted Speed
Minimum Spacing
Between Driveways
and/or Streets
Minimum Spacing
Between Traffic
Signals
Arterial
35 mph or
less 265 feet
Per ODOT
Standards
40 mph 265 feet
45 mph 265 feet
50 mph 265 feet
55 mph 265  feet
Major
Collector 25-35 mph 130 feet
Minor
Collector 25-35 mph 65 feet
Local Street 25 mph Access to each lot
permitted
Subdivision
(10+ lots) 25 mph Access to each lot
permitted

N/A

Clatsop County Land and Water III-127 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Subdivision
(4-9 lots) 20 mph
Partition
(> 3 ***) 20 mph
Partition
(1-3 lots) 15 mph

8) Number of Access Points. For single-unit (detached and attached), two-unit,
and three-unit housing types, one street access point is permitted per lot, when
alley access cannot otherwise be provided; except that two access points may be
permitted for two-unit and three-unit housing on corner lots (i.e., no more than
one access per street), subject to the access spacing standards above. The
number of street access points for multiple-unit, commercial, industrial, and
public/institutional developments shall be minimized to protect the function,
safety and operation of the street(s) and sidewalk(s) for all users. Shared access
may be required, in conformance with Section 3.9540(9), below, in order to
maintain the required access spacing, and minimize the number of access
points. An additional access point may be allowed as determined by the Public
Works Director, County Engineer or designee.
9) Shared Driveways. The number of driveway and private street intersections with
public streets shall be minimized by the use of shared driveways with adjoining
lots where feasible. The County shall require shared driveways as a condition of
land division or site design review, as applicable, for traffic safety and access
management purposes in accordance with the following standards:
(A) Shared driveways and frontage streets may be required to consolidate
access onto a collector or arterial street. When shared driveways or
frontage streets are required, they shall be stubbed to adjacent
developable parcels to indicate future extension. “Stub” means that a
driveway or street temporarily ends at the property line, but may be
extended in the future as the adjacent parcel develops. “Developable”
means that a parcel is either vacant or it is likely to receive additional
development (i.e., due to infill or redevelopment potential).
(B) Access easements (i.e., for the benefit of affected properties) shall be
recorded for all shared driveways, including pathways, at the time of final
plat approval or as a condition of site development approval.
(C) Exception. Shared driveways are not required when existing development
patterns or physical constraints (e.g., topography, parcel configuration,
and similar conditions) prevent extending the street/driveway in the future.
10) Street Connectivity and Formation of Blocks Required. In order to promote
efficient vehicular and pedestrian circulation throughout the county, land divisions
and large site developments, as determined by the Community Development
Director, shall produce complete blocks bounded by a connecting network of
public and/or private streets, in accordance with the following standards:

Clatsop County Land and Water III-128 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
(A) Block Length and Perimeter. No block shall be more than 1,000 feet in
length between street corner lines unless it is adjacent to an arterial street.
The recommended minimum length of blocks along an arterial street is
1.800 feet. An exception to the above standard may be granted, as part of
the applicable review process, when blocks are divided by one or more
pathway(s); pathways shall be located to minimize out-of-direction travel
by pedestrians and may be designed to accommodate bicycles; or where
the site’s topography or the location of adjoining streets makes it
impractical to meet the standard.
(B) Street Standards. Public and private streets shall also conform to
Sections 3.9800 – Transportation Improvements and Road Standard
Specifications for Design and Construction, Section 3.9550 - Pedestrian
and Bicycle Access and Circulation, Figures 3.1-3.5, and applicable
Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA) of 1990 design standards.
(C) Driveway Openings. Driveway openings or curb cuts shall be the
minimum width necessary to provide the required number of vehicle travel
lanes (12 feet for each travel lane). The following standards (i.e., as
measured where the front property line meets the sidewalk or right-of-way)
are required to provide adequate site access, minimize surface water
runoff, and avoid conflicts between vehicles and pedestrians:
1. Single-unit, two-unit, and three-unit uses shall have a minimum
driveway width of 10 feet, and a maximum width of 24 feet.
2. Multiple-unit uses with between 4 and 7 dwelling units shall have a
minimum driveway width of 20 feet, and a maximum width of 24
feet.
3. Multiple-unit uses with more than 8 dwelling units, and off-street
parking areas with 16 or more parking spaces, shall have a
minimum driveway width of 24 feet, and a maximum width of 30
feet. These dimensions may be increased if the Community
Development Director determines that more than two lanes are
required based on the number of trips generated or the need for
turning lanes.
4. Access widths for all other uses shall be based on 12 feet of width
for every travel lane, except that driveways providing direct access
to parking spaces shall conform to the parking area standards in
Sections 3.9800 – Transportation Improvements and Road
Standard Specifications for Design and Construction.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-129 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
5. Driveway Aprons. Driveway aprons (when required) shall be
constructed of concrete or asphalt and shall be installed between
the street right-of-way and the private drive, as shown above.
Driveway aprons shall conform to ADA standards for sidewalks and
pathways, which require a continuous route of travel that is a
minimum of 4 feet in width, with a cross slope not exceeding 2
percent.
11) Fire Access and Parking Area Turn-Arounds. A fire equipment access drive
shall be provided for any portion of an exterior wall of the first story of a building
that is located more than 150 feet from an existing public street or approved fire
equipment access drive, or an alternative acceptable to the local Fire District and
Public Works Director, County Engineer or designee.  Parking areas shall
provide adequate aisles or turn-around areas for service and delivery vehicles so
that all vehicles may enter the street in a forward manner. For requirements
related to cul-de-sacs, please refer to Section 3.9620(10) - Cul-de-Sac.
12) Vertical and Horizontal Clearances. Driveways, private streets, aisles, turn-
around areas and ramps shall have a minimum vertical clearance of 13’ 6” for
their entire length and width and horizontal clearance of no less than 20’.
13) Vision Clearance. See Section 3.6530. Clear Vision Area.
14) Vision Clearance. See Section 3.6530. Clear Vision Area.
15) Construction. The following development and maintenance standards shall
apply to all driveways and private streets, except that the standards do not apply
to driveways serving one single-unit detached dwelling:
(A) Surface Options. Driveways, parking areas, aisles, and turn-arounds may
be paved with asphalt, concrete or comparable surfacing, or a durable
non-paving material may be used to reduce surface water runoff and
protect water quality. Paving surfaces shall be subject to review and
approval by the Public Works Director, County Engineer or designee.
(B) Surface Water Management. When a paved surface is used, all
driveways, parking areas, aisles and turn-arounds shall have on-site
collection or infiltration of surface waters to eliminate sheet flow of such
waters onto public rights-of-way and abutting property. Surface water
facilities shall be constructed in conformance with standards approved by
the Public Works Director, County Engineer or designee.
(C) Driveway Aprons. Driveway approaches or “aprons” are required to
connect driveways to the public right-of-way when the existing roadway is
constructed of asphalt or concrete. Driveway aprons  shall be paved with
concrete or asphalt surfacing.
SECTION 3.9550. PEDESTRIAN AND BICYCLE ACCESS AND CIRCULATION
Section 3.9560. Purpose [ORD. 21-05] [ORD. 25-16]
To ensure safe, direct and convenient pedestrian and bicycle circulation, all new
development in rural communities, except single-unit detached housing (i.e., on
individual lots), shall provide a continuous pedestrian and/or shared use pathway

Clatsop County Land and Water III-130 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
system. (Pathways only provide for pedestrian circulation. Shared use pathways
accommodate pedestrians and bicycles.) The system of pathways shall be designed
based on the standards below:
1) Continuous Pathways. The pathway system shall extend throughout the
development site, and connect to all future phases of development, adjacent
trails, public parks and open space areas whenever possible. The developer may
also be required to connect or stub pathway(s) to adjacent streets and private
property, in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.9540 - Access Control
Standards, and Section 3.9800 - Transportation Improvements and Road
Standard Specifications for Design and Construction
2) Safe, Direct, and Convenient Pathways. Pathways within developments shall
provide safe, reasonably direct and convenient connections between primary
building entrances, and all adjacent streets based on the following definitions:
(A) Reasonably direct. A route that does not deviate unnecessarily from a
straight line or a route that does not involve a significant amount of out-of-
direction travel for likely users.
(B) Safe and convenient. Bicycle and pedestrian routes that are reasonably
free from hazards and provide a reasonably direct route of travel between
destinations.
3) Connections Within Development. For all developments subject to Site Plan
Review, pathways shall connect all building entrances to one another. In
addition, pathways shall connect all parking areas, storage areas, recreational
facilities and common areas (as applicable), and adjacent developments to the
site.
4) Street Connectivity. Shared use pathways (for pedestrians and bicycles) shall
be provided at or near mid-block where the block length exceeds the length
required by Section 3.9630. Pathways shall also be provided where cul-de-sacs
or dead-end streets are planned, to connect the ends of the streets together, to
other streets, and/or to other developments. Pathways used to comply with these
standards shall conform to all of the following criteria:
(A) Shared use pathways (i.e., for pedestrians and bicyclists) are no less than
10-feet wide and located within a 14 foot right-of-way or easement that
allows access for emergency vehicles;
(B) If streets within a subdivision or neighborhood are lighted, pathways shall
also be lighted;
(C) Stairs or switchback paths using a narrower right-of-way/easement may
be required in lieu of a shared use pathway where grades are steep;

Clatsop County Land and Water III-131 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
(D) The Community Development Director may determine, based upon facts
in the record, that a pathway is impracticable due to: physical or
topographic conditions (e.g., freeways, railroads, extremely steep slopes,
sensitive lands, and similar physical constraints); buildings or other
existing development on adjacent properties that physically prevent a
connection now or in the future, considering the potential for
redevelopment; and sites where the provisions of recorded leases,
easements, covenants, restrictions, or other agreements recorded as of
the effective date of this Code prohibit the pathway connection.
1. Vehicle/Pathway Separation. Where pathways are parallel and
adjacent to a driveway or street (public or private), they shall be
raised 6 inches and curbed, or separated from the driveway/street
by a 5-foot minimum strip with bollards, a landscape berm, r other
physical barrier. If a raised path is used, the ends of the raised
portions must be equipped with curb ramps.
2. Housing/Pathway Separation. Pedestrian pathways shall be
separated a minimum of 5 feet from all residential living areas on
the ground floor, except at building entrances. Separation is
measured from the pathway edge to the closest dwelling unit. The
separation area shall be landscaped. No pathway/building
separation is required for commercial, industrial, public, or
institutional uses.
3. Crosswalks. Where pathways cross a parking area, driveway, or
street (“crosswalk”), they shall be clearly marked with contrasting
paving materials, humps/raised crossings, or painted striping. An
example of contrasting paving material is the use of a concrete
crosswalk through an asphalt driveway. If painted striping is used, it
should consist of thermo-plastic striping or similar type of durable
application.
4. Pathway Surface. Pedestrian pathway surfaces shall be concrete,
asphalt, brick/masonry pavers, or other durable surface, at least 5
feet wide, and shall conform to ADA requirements. Multi-use paths
(i.e., for bicycles and pedestrians) shall be the same materials, at
least 8 feet wide.
5. Accessible routes. Pathways shall comply with the federal
Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA), which requires accessible
routes of travel from the parking spaces to the accessible entrance.
The route shall be compliant with the following minimum standards:
(a) Shall not contain curbs or stairs;
(b) Must be at least 3 feet wide;
(c) Is constructed with a firm, stable, slip resistant surface; and
(d) The slope shall not be greater than 1:12 in the direction of
travel.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-132 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
SECTION 3.9570. FAMILY CHILD CARE HOMES [ORD. 23-04]
The following standards shall apply to family child care homes, as defined in Section
1.0500. Family Child care homes:
1)  Are residential uses per ORS 329A.440 and shall not be regulated as home
occupations.
2) Shall not be prohibited by the governing documents of planned communities or
condominiums, in accordance with the requirements of ORS 94.779 and ORS
100.023.
3) Shall not be subject to any condition that is more restrictive than conditions
imposed on other residential dwellings in the same zone. [ORD. 23-04]
SECTION 3.9600. SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS
Section 3.9610 Principles of Acceptability
All subdivisions shall conform to the Comprehensive Plan and to the requirements of
state law and the standards established by this Ordinance. [ORD. 25-02]
Section 3.9620. Streets (Ord. 21-05)
1) General. The location, width, and grade of streets shall be considered in their
relation to existing and planned streets, to topographical conditions, to public
convenience and safety, and to the proposed use of the land to be served by the
streets. Where location is not shown in a comprehensive development plan, the
arrangement of streets in a subdivision shall either:
(A) Provide for the continuation or appropriate projection of existing principal
streets in surrounding areas; or
(B) Conform to a plan for the neighborhood approved or adopted by the
Planning Commission to meet a particular situation where topographical or
other conditions make continuance or conformance to existing streets
impractical.
2) Minimum right-of-way and roadway widths. The width of streets and
roadways shall be adequate to fulfill County specifications as provided in Section
3.9800 of this Ordinance.
3) Where existing conditions, such as the topography or the size or shape of land
parcels, make it otherwise impractical to provide buildable lots, the Planning
Commission, in coordination with the Public Works Director, County Engineer, or
designee may accept a narrower right-of-way. If necessary, special slope
easements may be required.
4) Reserve strips. Reserve strips or street plugs controlling access to streets will
not be approved unless necessary for the protection of the public welfare or of
substantial property rights and in these cases they may be required. The control
and disposal of the land comprising such strips shall be placed within the
jurisdiction of the County under conditions approved by the Planning
Commission.
5) Alignment. Streets other than minor streets shall align with existing streets by
extending the center lines of the existing streets. Staggered street alignment

Clatsop County Land and Water III-133 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
resulting in "T" intersections shall leave a minimum distance of 200 feet between
the center lines of streets having approximately the same direction and shall not
be less than 125 feet.
6) Future extension of streets. Where necessary to give access to or permit a
satisfactory future subdivision or adjoining land, streets shall be extended to the
boundary of the subdivision and the resulting dead-end streets may be approved
without a turnaround. Reserve strips and street plugs may be required to
preserve the objectives of street extensions.
7) Intersection angles. Streets shall be laid out to intersect at angles as near to
right angles as practical except where topography requires a lesser angle. In no
case shall the acute angle be less than 60 degrees unless there is a special
intersection design. The intersection of an arterial or collector street with another
street shall have at least 100 feet of tangent adjacent to the intersection unless
topography requires a lesser distance. Other streets, except alleys, shall have at
least 50 feet of tangent adjacent to the intersection unless topography requires a
lesser distance. Intersections which contain an acute angle of less than 80
degrees or which include an arterial street shall have a minimum corner radius
sufficient to allow for roadway radius of 20 feet and maintain a uniform width
between the roadway and the right-of-way line.
8) Existing streets. Whenever existing streets adjacent to or within a tract are of
inadequate width, additional right-of-way shall be provided at the time of
subdivision.
9) Half streets. Half streets may be approved where essential to the reasonable
development of the subdivision, when in conformity with the other requirements
of these regulations, and when the Planning Commission finds it will be practical
to require the dedication of the other half when the adjoining property is
subdivided. Whenever a half street is adjacent to a tract to be subdivided, the
other half of the street shall be platted within such tract. Reserve strips and street
plugs may be required to preserve the objectives of half strips.
10) Cul-de-sacs. The maximum length of a cul-de-sac shall be determined by the
Public Works Director (or designee) and/or the appropriate Fire Chief or Marshal.
Cul-de-sacs shall terminate with a turnaround.
11) Street names. Except for extensions of existing streets, no street shall be used
which will duplicate or be confused with the names of existing streets. Street
names and numbers shall conform to the established pattern in the surrounding
area and, if near a city, to the pattern in the city. Applications for new
subdivisions shall include a list of street names pre-approved by the County
Road Naming Review Committee.
12) Grades and curves. Grades and curves shall be in accordance with Table 3.2 –
Right-of-way and Improvement Standards Table. Where existing conditions,
particularly topography, make it impractical to provide buildable lots, the County
Engineer may accept steeper grades and sharper curves.
13) Streets adjacent to railroad right-of-way. Wherever a proposed subdivision
contains or is adjacent to a railroad right-of-way, provision may be required for a

Clatsop County Land and Water III-134 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
street approximately parallel to and on each side of such right-of-way at a
distance suitable for the appropriate use of the land between the streets and the
railroad. The distance shall be determined with due consideration at cross streets
of the minimum distance required for approach grades to a future grade
separation and to provide sufficient depth to allow screen planting along the
railroad right-of-way.
14) Marginal access streets. Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or
proposed arterial street, the Planning Commission may require marginal access
streets, reverse frontage lots with suitable depth, screen planting contained in a
non-access reservation along the rear or side property line, or other treatment
necessary for adequate protection of residential properties and to afford
separation of through and local traffic.
15) Alleys. Alleys shall be provided in commercial and industrial districts, unless
other permanent provisions for access to off-street parking and loading facilities
are approved by the Planning Commission.
Section 3.9630. Blocks [ORD. 21-05] [ORD. 25-02]
1) General. The length, width, and shape of blocks shall take into account the need
for adequate lot size and street width and shall recognize the limitations of the
topography.
2) Size. No block shall be more than 1,000 feet in length between street corner
lines unless it is adjacent to an arterial street or unless the topography or the
location of adjoining street justifies an exception. The recommended minimum
length of blocks along an arterial street is 1,800 feet.
3) Easements.
(A) Utility lines. Easements for sewers, water mains, electric lines, or other
public utilities shall be dedicated whenever necessary. The easements
shall be at least 15 feet wide and centered on lot lines where possible.
Electric lines or other similar utilities along with utility pole tieback
easements may be reduced to six feet in width as appropriate for the
particular utility.
(B) Water courses. If a subdivision is traversed by a water course such as a
drainage way, channel, or stream, a storm water easement or drainage
right-of-way shall be provided. The easement or right-of-way shall
substantially conform to the lines of the water course, and be of sufficient
width for the purpose. Streets or parkways parallel to major water courses
may be required.
(C) Pedestrian ways. When desirable for public convenience, pedestrian
pathways shall be required to connect to cul-de-sacs or to pass through
unusually long or oddly shaped blocks in accordance with Section 3.9550.
Section 3.9640. Lots [ORD. 21-05] [ORD. 25-02]
1) Size and shape. Lot size, width, shape, and orientation shall be appropriate for
the location of the subdivision and for the type of use contemplated.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-135 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
(A) Lot sizes shall conform to the zoning requirement. Depth and width of
properties reserved or laid out for commercial and industrial purposes
shall be adequate to provide for the off-street parking and service facilities
required by the type of use contemplated.
2) Access. Each lot shall abut upon a street other than an alley for a width of at
least 25 feet.
3) Through lots. Through lots shall be avoided except where it is essential to
provide separation of residential development from traffic arteries or adjacent
non-residential activities or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography
and orientation. A landscape buffer at least 10 feet wide is required along the
property line. Vehicular access through the landscape buffer is prohibited.
4) Lot side lines. The side lines of lots shall run at right angles to the street upon
which the lots face, unless impracticable due to slopes, environmentally-sensitive
lands or other restrictions.
Section 3.9650. General Soil Development
Lot grading in areas subject to the Geologic Hazard Overlay zone shall conform to the
standards of Section 5.3000.
Section 3.9660. Building Lines
If special building setback lines are to be established in the subdivision, they shall be
shown on the subdivision plat.
Section 3.9670. Future Re-Subdivision [ORD. 21-05] [ORD. 25-02]
Where a partition or subdivision will create individual lots or parcels  with a lot area
greater than or equal to two times the minimum lot area of the underlying zone(s),such
lots or parcels shall have a lot area and lot width which will allow for their future
partitioning or subdividing. The applicant shall demonstrate such lots or parcels could
be further divided or replatted in the future to create lots or parcels that will meet the
minimum required lot size and lot width requirements.  The design shall also ensure that
the minimum right-of-way requirements in Table 3.2 can be provided after the replatting
or repartitioning.
Section 3.9680. Land for Public Purposes
If the County has an interest in acquiring any portion of the proposed subdivision for a
public purpose, or if the County has been advised of such interest by a school district or
other public agency, and there is reasonable assurance that steps will be taken to
acquire the land, then the Planning Commission may require that those portions of the
subdivision be reserved for public acquisition, for a period not to exceed one year.
SECTION 3.9690. SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS
Section 3.9700. Improvement Procedures [ORD. 25-02]

Clatsop County Land and Water III-136 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
In addition to other requirements, improvements shall conform to the requirements of
this ordinance and improvement standards or specifications adopted by the County and
shall be installed in accordance with the following procedure:
1) Work shall not be commenced until plans have been reviewed for adequacy and
approved by the County. To the extent necessary for evaluation of the
subdivision proposal, the plans may be required before approval of the final plat.
All plans shall be prepared in accordance with requirements of the County.
2) Work shall not be commenced until the County has been notified in advance, and
if work has been discontinued for any reason it shall not be resumed until the
County has been notified.
3) Required improvements shall be inspected by and constructed to the satisfaction
of the County. The County may require changes in typical sections and details if
unusual conditions arising during construction warrant such change in the public
interest.
4) Underground utilities, sanitary sewers, and storm drains installed in streets by the
subdivider shall be constructed prior to the surfacing of the streets. Stubs for
service connections for underground utilities and sanitary sewers shall be placed
to lengths that will avoid the need to disturb street improvements when service
connections are made.
5) An as-built drawing showing public improvements shall be filed with the County
Engineer upon completion of the improvements.
Section 3.9710. Specifications for Improvements [ORD. 21-05] [ORD. 25-02]
The County Engineer shall prepare and submit to the Board of County Commissioners
specifications to supplement the standards of this ordinance based on engineering
standards appropriate for the improvements concerned. Specifications shall be
prepared for the construction of the following (Figures 3.1-3.5):
1) Streets including related improvements such as curbs, shoulders, median strips
and sidewalks, and including suitable provisions for necessary slope easements.
2) Drainage facilities.
3) Sidewalks in pedestrian ways.
4) Sewers and sewage disposal facilities.
5) Public water supplies and water distribution systems.

In absence of specifications prepared by the County Engineer, the latest edition of the
Oregon Standards Specifications for Construction prepared by the Oregon Department
of Transportation shall be used. Whenever these specifications refer to the State,
consider that to mean Clatsop County, the appropriate County Department or
appropriate County address.
Section 3.9720. Improvement Requirements (Ord. 21-05)
The following improvements shall be installed at the expense of the subdivider:

Clatsop County Land and Water III-137 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
1) Water supply. Lots within a subdivision shall either be served by a public
domestic water supply system conforming to State or County specifications or
the lot size shall be increased to provide such separation of water sources and
sewage disposal facilities as the County Sanitarian or Oregon Department of
Environmental Quality considers adequate for soil and water conditions.
2) Sewage. Lots within a subdivision either shall be served by a public sewage
disposal system conforming to State or County specifications or the lot size shall
be increased to provide sufficient area for a septic tank disposal system
approved by the County Sanitarian as being adequate for soil and water
conditions considering the nature of the water supply.
3) Drainage. Grading shall be performed and drainage facilities installed
conforming to County specifications as necessary to provide proper drainage
within the subdivision. Drainage facilities in the subdivision shall be connected to
drainage ways or storm sewers outside the subdivision. Dikes and pumping
systems shall be installed if necessary to protect the subdivision against flooding
or other inundation.
4) Streets. Where streets are to be accepted into the County road system, the
subdivider shall grade and improve streets in the subdivision and shall extend the
streets to the paving line of existing intersecting streets with which such streets
intersect in conformance with County specifications. Street improvements shall
include related improvements such as curbs, shoulders, sidewalks and median
strips to the extent these are required. All other streets shall be improved in
accordance with minimum road standards as set forth in 3.9800.
5) Pedestrian ways. A sidewalk in conformance with the standards of Section
S5.034 shall be installed in the center of pedestrian ways.
6) Underground utilities. Underground utilities shall be required.

SECTION 3.9800.  TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENTS AND ROAD STANDARD
SPECIFICATIONS FOR DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION
Section 3.9810. General Road and Access Policies (Ord. 21-05)
1) Purpose. The establishment of the criteria to be used in Clatsop County for
evaluating the appropriateness of proposed roads which are intended to provide
access to lots or parcels. These criteria shall form the basis for determining what
requirements are necessary to ensure that there will be adequate provisions
available now, and in the future, to provide for the transportation needs of lots,
parcels, or developments.

The Clatsop County Road Standards are intended to provide access to new
development in a manner which reduces construction cost, makes efficient use of
land, allows emergency vehicle access while discouraging inappropriate traffic
volumes and speeds, and which accommodates convenient pedestrian and
bicycle circulation. The standards apply to County roads, dedicated roads and
private roads.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-138 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

The Road Standards to be applied are based on the density of the zone in which
it will be built and shall be constructed to that standard. The Clatsop County
Department of Community Development, Planning Commission or Board of
County Commissioners will on a case by case basis consider possible future land
divisions and whether or not the road being built should be private or dedicated.

Where a partition is proposed in Major or Peripheral Big Game Range areas, the
road shall be located to minimize its impact on big game range.
2) Conditions of Development Approval. No development may occur unless
required transportation facilities are in place or guaranteed, in conformance with
the provisions of this document. Improvements required as a condition of
development approval, when not voluntarily accepted by the applicant, shall be
roughly proportional to the impact of development on public facilities and
services. Findings in the development approval shall indicate how the required
improvements are roughly proportional to the impact.
3) Criteria. Roads in Clatsop County shall be designed, constructed, and
maintained to:
(A) Be capable of ensuring unrestricted travel to and from a property.
(B) Provide adequate, safe, and legal access with minimum public cost.
(C) Place the burden of the costs on the benefited person(s).
(D) Provide access for fire protection, ambulance, police, mail, school bus,
public transit, and garbage services.
(E) Provide for drainage ways and utility services.
(F) Be compatible with adjoining land use.
(G) Minimize, with the constraints of reasonable engineering practices and
costs, the creation of roads within lands designated for Exclusive Farm
Use, Forest Resource, Open Space Reserve, Rural and Rural Service
Areas designated by the Clatsop County Comprehensive Plan.
(H) Ensure that the new road will minimize interference with forest
management or harvesting practices.
(I) Minimize within the constraints of reasonable engineering practices and
costs the loss of productive agricultural or forest land, and be located on
that portion of such land that is least suitable for timber or agricultural
production, taking into consideration, but not limited to, the following:
topography, soil capability or classification, erosion potential, and the size
and resultant configuration of the affected tracts.
(J) Minimize the loss of important wildlife habitat, such as sensitive deer and
elk range, identified natural areas, and other significant natural features.
(K) Facilitate safe and convenient pedestrian and bicycle trips to meet local
travel needs in developed areas.
(L) Streets within or adjacent to a development shall be improved in
accordance with the Transportation System Plan and the provisions of this
Section.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-139 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
4) Standards, Generally:
(A) The following are a variety of types or forms of access used to gain
ingress and egress to property within Clatsop County:
1. County roads
2. Federal roads
3. State highways
4. Dedicated ways
5. Flag lots
6. Ways of necessity
7. Public roads
8. Private roads
9. Prescriptive roads
(B) Publicly dedicated and maintained roads provide superior access.
(C) Flag lots may provide access, but can hinder future development of the
surrounding area.
(D) Private roads function best if they are designed to serve a predetermined,
limited amount of development.
(E) Paved roads are safer, less of a nuisance, and more economical to
maintain than gravel roads.
(F) Road requirements should support a complete transportation network, and
not inhibit new land development innovations and concepts.
(G) Dedicated ways or County roads shall be the ordinary standard
recommended for subdivisions, except as may be dictated by natural
hazards, topography, or other special circumstances.
5) Standards, Specifically:
(A) As far as is feasible, roads shall be in alignment with existing or
appropriate projections of existing roads by continuation of their centerline.
(B) When necessary to give access to, or permit a satisfactory future division
of adjoining lands, rights-of-way or easements shall be extended to the
boundary of a major partition, subdivision, or development. A temporary
turnaround may be required for the resulting dead end road in accordance
with Oregon Fire Code.
(C) Frontage roads, or double frontage parcels or lots may be required by the
County when a proposed parcel or lot would otherwise abut an arterial or
collector road in order to effect separation of through and local traffic. In
addition, screening or other treatments may be required along arterials
and collectors in order to provide adequate noise and visual protection to
adjacent properties.
(D) Whenever a proposed division or development is intended to abut a public
road, the County shall restrict or limit as to location and number, vehicular
access points unless specifically exempted in any approval thereof.
(E) Where a cut or fill road slope is outside the normal right-of-way, a slope
easement shall be required of sufficient width to permit maintenance of the
cut or fill and drainage structure.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-140 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Section 3.9820. Improvement Plans (Ord. 21-05)
The Improvement Plans will include, but not be limited, to the following:
1) A plan view showing:
(A) Dimensioning necessary to survey and relocate the roadway.
(B) Right-of-way lines as shown on the final plat.
(C) Proposed drainage structures, showing both size and type of structure.
(D) Location of all existing and proposed utilities.
(E) Location and dimensions of the pedestrian circulation system.
(F) Location of bicycle parking.
(G) Location and type of signs.
(H) Toe of slope and top of cut lines showing the limits of the construction
area within the dedication.
(I) Section lines, fractional section lines and/or Donation Land Claim lines tie
to corner from which dedication description is prepared.
(J) Vicinity map on the first plan sheet showing roughly the relationships of
the proposed road to cities, state highways, county roads, or other well
defined topographical features.
(K) The stamp and signature of the Registered Professional Engineer
preparing the plans.
2) A profile showing:
(A) Centerline grades and vertical curves.
(B) Curb profiles where curbs are required.
(C) Super elevation transition diagrams for horizontal curves shall be shown if
curbs are not required.
3) Typical roadway cross-section showing:
(A) Width and depth of base.
(B) Width and depth of paving.
(C) Curbs if required.
(D) Side slopes.
(E) Ditch section in cut areas.
4) Detail plans of all bridges, stamped by a registered professional engineer.
5) Detail plans of any drainage and irrigation structures, sewer lines, or other
structures.
6) Any other information required by the County Public Works Department.

Section 3.9830. Public and County Road Standards (Ord. 21-05)
1) Road Design:
(A) The radius of curvature, grade and intersection curb return radius of
streets shall conform to the minimum standards prescribed in Tables 3.2,
3.3, and 3.4 of these standards.
(B) Alignment of streets: Streets located on opposite sides of an intersecting
street shall have their centerlines directly opposite each other where

Clatsop County Land and Water III-141 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
possible; otherwise, the centerlines shall be separated by not less than
125 feet.
(C) Intersection angles: Street intersections shall be as near right angles as
possible except where topography requires a lesser angle, but in no case
shall the acute angle be less than 60 degrees.
(D) Location of centerline: The centerline of the paving shall correspond to the
centerline of the right-of-way where possible and practical.
(E) Continuation of streets: Subdivision streets which constitute the
continuation of streets in contiguous territory shall be aligned so that their
centerlines coincide. Where straight-line continuations are not possible,
such centerlines shall be continued by curves. New streets or the
continuation of a street in contiguous territory may be required by the
Planning Commission where such continuation is necessary to maintain
the function of the street or a desirable existing or planned pattern of
streets and blocks in the surrounding area. Any road or street which does
not connect directly to a County maintained road, City maintained street or
state highway will not be accepted for maintenance by the County.
(F) Streets in Subdivision Adjoining Unsubdivided Land:
1. Stubbed streets: Where a subdivision adjoins unsubdivided land,
streets which may be necessary to assure the proper subdivision of
the adjoining land or the continuation of the function of a major
arterial or collector street shall be provided through to the boundary
line of the subdivision.
2. Half streets: Half streets proposed adjacent and parallel to the
boundary line of the subdivision, while generally not acceptable,
may be approved where essential to the reasonable development
of the subdivision when in conformity with other requirements of
this ordinance and when the Planning Commission finds it will be
practical to require the dedication and improvement of the other half
when the adjoining property is subdivided. Half streets shall not be
permitted where lots would front on such streets.  Where half
streets are provided, a performance bond may be required to insure
all improvements until such time as the remaining half street on
adjacent property is dedicated and improved. Whenever an existing
half street is adjacent and parallel to the boundary line of a
proposed subdivision, the subdivider shall dedicate and improve
such additional right-of-way as may be necessary to meet the
standards for the type of streets involved.
(G) Subdivision roads: All roads not to be maintained by the County shall be
posted with an approved sign stating roads are not County maintained.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-142 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
(H) Existing streets: Whenever existing streets adjacent to or within a tract are
of inadequate width, additional right-of-way shall be provided at the time of
the subdivision. When existing streets are to be used as access to the
subdivision they shall be constructed as to provide reasonable access as
determined by the County Public Works Director or County Engineer.
(I) Cross Sections and Tables. All new arterials, collectors, and local streets
must conform with design standards of Table 3.2 Road Right-of-Way and
Improvement Standards.
2) Improvement Plans: A complete set of Improvement Plans shall be submitted
and approved by the Public Works Director County Engineer, or designee prior to
the start of construction on any County maintained road, public way or
subdivision road which is to become a public way.
3) Surveying: All roads shall be located by a survey crew so as to ensure that the
road is constructed in the location shown on the improvement plans. The
construction of the road improvement shall be within 0.3’ more or less of the
horizontal and vertical location shown on the improvement plans.
4) Monumentation: Center line P.C. and P.T. points on horizontal curves shall be
referenced with permanent monuments in accordance with the County
Surveyor’s requirements.
5) Standard Specifications: All roadway excavation, fill construction, subgrade
preparation, aggregate bases, surfacing, prime coats and paving will be built in
accordance with the current edition of the Oregon Department of Transportation “
Oregon Standard Specifications for Construction”. Whenever these specifications
refer to the State, consider that to mean the County of Clatsop, the appropriate
County Department or appropriate County address. In case of discrepancy or
conflict in the plans, standard specifications, supplemental standard
specifications and special provisions, they shall govern in the following order:
A. Special Provisions
B. Plans specifically applicable to the project.
C. Standard or general plans.
D. Supplemental Standard Specifications.
E. Standard Specifications.
6) Testing: All testing except as herein noted, will conform to methods described in
“A.A.S.H.T.O. Materials, Part 11, Tests”, current Edition. All lab costs for testing
will be borne by the developer.
7) Inspection: The County Public Works Department shall be notified 48 hours in
advance of the time for subgrade inspection, 48 hours in advance of the time for
base inspection and 48 hours in advance of the time for paving inspection. The
subgrade is to be inspected before placing the base. The base is to be inspected
before placing the pavement. If proper notification for inspection has not been
given, the Clatsop County Public Works Department will not grant approval of the
road for twelve months. In this way, the County can observe any deficiencies that
may develop in the road and have them corrected before acceptance.
8) Subgrade: All subgrades will be compacted in accordance with the Standard

Clatsop County Land and Water III-143 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Specifications.
9) Aggregate Base: Aggregates for aggregate base shall be gravel or rock,
crushed or uncrushed, including sand, reasonably well graded from coarse to
fine. The grading shall be in accordance with Table 02630-1 of the most current
edition of the Oregon Department of Transportation Oregon Standard
Specifications for Construction.
10) Asphalt Prime Coat: For all roadway sections using an oil mat, an asphalt prime
coat will be applied to the aggregate base in addition to the oil mat. The prime
coat will be applied in accordance with Section 705 of the Standard
Specifications. Application rate and type of oil will be as approved by the County
Engineer. The aggregate shall be ¾ to ½ or as approved by the Public Works
Director, County Engineer or designee and specified in Section 705.10 of the
Standard Specifications. The aggregate shall be applied within the range of
0.004 to 0.013 cubic yards/square yard. A three-day curing period will be
required.
11) Asphalt Penetration Macadam: Where any oil mat is required it shall be applied
in accordance with the Standard Specifications. The bituminous material used in
the first two spreads shall be as approved by the County Public Works Director.
The bituminous material used in the seal coat may be as approved by the Public
Works Director.
12) Asphalt Concrete Pavement: Where asphalt concrete pavement is required it
shall be done in accordance with the Standard Specifications. The asphalt
cement shall be as approved by the Public Works Director, County Engineer or
designee. The class of asphalt concrete shall be Level 2. Density testing shall be
supplied for all asphalt concrete pavement.
13) Where required Portland cement concrete curbs and sidewalks shall be
constructed in accordance with Oregon Department of Transportation Standard
Drawings and the Standard Specifications. The concrete shall be as specified in
the Standard Specifications.
14) Select Backfill: The curbs shall be backfilled in the areas shown on the plans
with select backfill. This select backfill shall consist of materials with a maximum
size of three inches. The material shall be compacted to at least 90 percent of its
relative maximum density.
15) Clearing: The right-of-way shall be cleared of all trees. However, in subdivisions
where traffic safety would not be involved and a lesser requirement would not
create a hazard, the right-of-way shall be cleared a minimum of forty-feet (40) or
four-feet (4) beyond the edge of shoulder or curb line or the finished road. Also,
in subdivision, the case of an individual tree which is considered an exceptional
or stately tree, an allowance can be made to leave the tree within the above
mentioned four (4) foot area. In some instances, consideration can also be given
to allow the prism of the road to shift slightly toward one side of the right-of-way.
Any change in the alignment should be done to provide a safe and aesthetic
looking roadway.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-144 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
16) Signs: Clatsop County has jurisdiction concerning the location of all signs on
County maintained roads and public ways.

When in the Public Works Director's opinion there may be a need for a change in
the speed limit for a road, he shall request the Oregon State Speed Control
Board to study the road in question. If the Speed Control Board issues an order
to post a speed limit on the road, Clatsop County will furnish and install the
speed limit signs at the County’s expense.

Name signs for County maintained roads shall have reflective green background
with reflective white letters.

Signing at intersections will be paid for as follows:
(A) Intersection of two County maintained roads:
1. Stop signs - County
2. Name signs - County
(B) Intersection of a County maintained road and a public way:
1. Stop signs - County
2. Name signs - County
(C) Intersection of two public ways:
1. Stop signs - Others
2. Name signs - Others
(D) Intersection of two private ways:
1. Stop signs - Others
2. Name signs - Others
(E) Intersection of private way and public way:
1. Stop signs - Others
2. Name signs - Others

Clatsop County Road Department may furnish and install the signs which are
referred to above as paid for by “others”. However, they shall be paid by “others”
for the County’s expense.
17) Drainage:
(A) Size of culverts: The design and construction of all drainage facilities
within a project shall be of sufficient size and quality to receive and
transport, at a 25 year storm frequency of all surface drainage and natural
drainage course waters coming to and passing through the project from the
watershed or watersheds to which it is servient, when the lands located in
such are at full planned development, according to the Comprehensive
Framework Plan. The minimum diameter pipe to be used shall be 12
inches.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-145 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Prior to approval being granted for a project, it must be shown that the
existing downstream facilities are adequate to receive and pass storm
water runoff discharged through and from the proposed project from a 25
year storm based on the present development plus any proposed
developments of the lands of the watershed or watersheds to which the
proposed project is servient.

In those areas located in the 100-year floodplain, the design and
construction of all drainage facilities shall be of sufficient size and quality to
receive and transport the 100- year storm without raising the floodplain
elevation. The drainage facilities may be designed to pass less than a 100-
year storm provided retention or detention of the runoff is designed and
that such retention or detention does not raise the floodplain upstream.
(B) Drainage easements: When, due to topographical or other reason, all or
any portion of the water collected in the project must be discharged at the
boundary of the project, such that it is concentrated and must run across
other private property before reaching a natural or existing drainage
course, the developer shall make all necessary arrangements with the
affected property owner or owners. Arrangements shall include, but are not
limited to, a proper easement for drainage in favor of the public executed
by the affected owner or owners and a method of transporting the water,
i.e. ditch, sewer, etc., satisfactory to the County and said owner or owners.

If it is necessary to carry water across portions of the land being developed
hereunder, which are not to become public, and a satisfactory easement
has not been provided in the official plat of the area, the developer shall
prepare and cause to be executed a proper easement to the public for such
purpose.
(C) Connections to roadside ditches: Where drainage is to be connected to
an existing roadside ditch, the ditch shall not be deepened so as to
produce a finished ditch more than two (2) feet below the maximum of two
(2) foot depth, the developer shall cause to be constructed a proper size
storm sewer line in said roadside ditch.
18) The County shall require that a maintenance agreement be recorded in the
records of Clatsop County along with any map or plat creating a public road, and
include the following terms:
(A) That the agreement for maintenance shall be enforceable by a majority of
persons served by the road.
(B) That the owners of land served by the road, their successors, or assigns,
shall maintain the road, either equally or in accordance with a specific
formula.
(C) All public road maintenance agreements shall be reviewed and approved
by Public Works prior to recording. (Ord. 21-05)

Clatsop County Land and Water III-146 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Section 3.9840. Private Road Minimum Requirements [ORD. 21-05] [ORD. 25-02]
Table 3.4 and the following minimum requirements shall apply for any action relating to
the approval of a private road:
1) Private roads shall provide access to no more than 10 abutting lots or parcels. A
private road may serve more than 10 lots or parcels when the parcels are within
a planned development or subdivision and when such road is constructed to the
standards for a public road, and is approved as a part of the planned
development or subdivision. Under no circumstances shall a private road serve
other roads or areas.

Exemptions: Surf Pines, The Highlands at Gearhart, Christmas Tree Road and
connecting private streets, and Castle Rock Estates are exempt from this
requirement. These four areas are served by private roads and already exceed
the 10-lot standard.
2) Private roads shall not be approved if the road is presently needed, or is likely to
be needed, for development of adjacent property, or to be utilized for public road
purposes in the normal development of the area, or if the private road is intended
to serve commercial, or industrial district uses. Private roads shall not be
approved for commercial or industrial land divisions.
3) The minimum easement for a private road shall be in accordance with Table 3.2
– Right-of-way Improvement Standards Table. The minimum right-of-way width
shall accommodate required cut and fill slopes, ditches, turnouts and cul-de-
sacs.
4) A lot or parcel abutting a railroad or limited access road right-of-way may require
special consideration with respect to its access requirements.
5) Guardrail is required on all bridges and for a distance of 40 feet along the
approaches to all bridges. Guardrail is also required along any fill slope or natural
ground slope below the road that is steeper than 1:1, over 10 feet high, and is
within 10 feet horizontally of the edge of the traveled road surface. The guardrail
materials must be approved as conforming to Oregon State Highway Standard
Specifications.
6) The County may require that the private road being considered be established as
a dedicated way or County road and improved to the applicable standards, if it is
determined by the County that the access and transportation needs of the public
would be better served by such a change.

The determination made by the County will include the following:
(A) proximity of other roads being used for the same purpose,
(B) topography of the parcel and contiguous parcels,
(C) potential development as determined by the existing zoning or proposed
zoning if the request involves a zone change,
(D) safety factors such as visibility, frequency or road access points.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-147 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
7) All private roads that are dead-end roads shall have a cul-de-sac or other
suitable turnaround as determined by the local fire chief or State fire marshal.
8) A private road shall directly connect only to a public, county or state road.
9) The travel surface of the private road shall be constructed so as to ensure egress
and ingress for the parcels served during normal climatic conditions:
(A) Twelve (12) inches of pit run base course or equivalent. The grade of rock
shall be approved by the County Road Department prior to construction.
As an alternate, the depth of the base course containing 4 or 6-inch minus
or jaw run may be less than 12 inches as determined on a case-by-case
basis by the County Road Department.
(B) Four inches of 3/4-inch minus top course.
10) The County shall require that a maintenance agreement be recorded in the
records of Clatsop County along with any map or plat creating a private road, and
include the following terms:
(A) That the agreement for maintenance shall be enforceable by a majority of
persons served by the road.
(B) That the owners of land served by the road, their successors, or assigns,
shall maintain the road, either equally or in accordance with a specific
formula.
11) The County shall require that an easement over the private road for ingress and
egress, including the right of maintenance, be conveyed to the properties served
by the road.
Section 3.9850. Minimum Construction Standards for Private Roads (Ord. 21-05)
1) Fourteen (14) foot wide improved travel surface (see G-14 (Figure 3.1) standard
cross-section).
2) Turnouts shall be required at 800 feet maximum spacing, or at distances which
ensure continuous visual contact between turnouts, and constructed to the
following dimensional standards: 50 feet in length and seven (7) feet in width,
with 25 foot tapers on each end back from its point of connection with the County
or public road.
3) Cut and fill slope requirements, and ditch lines as detailed on the G-14 standard
cross section. The grade of the ditch slopes parallel to centerline shall be no less
than 1% to provide for adequate drainage. The developer shall be required to
provide all erosion control measures necessary to maintain the standard cross
section and to eliminate any increase in any stream turbidity.
4) The width of the road approach at its intersection with the County road, or other
public road, shall equal 18 feet, and taper over a distance of 50 feet to the travel
surface width back from its point of connection with the County or public road.
5) The finished grade of the roadway shall not exceed 16 percent. Any finished
grade in excess of 12% shall be asphalt or concrete.
6) A suitable turnaround acceptable to the fire chief or State fire marshal shall be
provided at the terminus of the private road or within 150 feet of its terminus.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-148 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
7) All culverts, bridges and other waterway crossings serving two (2) or more
parcels shall be constructed and maintained to carry American Association of
State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO) HS-20 loading. a typical
acceptable type is 16 gauge, galvanized CMP for small cross drains and
drainageway crossings. Twelve inch diameter culverts are the absolute minimum.
Bridges and other large waterway crossings shall be certified by a professional
registered engineer.
8) All private road points of access to public roads shall include a landing area to
extend 20 feet minimum beyond the shoulder of the public road on which the
profile grade shall not exceed +/- three (3) percent. A greater landing area may
be required to allow for future road improvements.
9) Surveying: All roads shall be located by a surveyor so as to ensure that the road
is constructed in the location shown on the improvement plans. The construction
of the road improvement shall be within 0.3’ more or less of the horizontal and
vertical location shown on the improvement plans.
10) Inspection by the County is required for all private road improvements.  The
County Public Works Department shall be notified 48 hours in advance of the
time for subgrade inspection, 48 hours in advance of the time for base inspection
and 48 hours in advance of the time for paving inspection. The subgrade is to be
inspected before placing the base. The base is to be inspected before placing the
pavement.

Section 3.9860. Roadway Construction in Serial Partitions (Ord. 21-05)
(1) This section applies to properties being developed through the use of sequential
or serial partitions rather than through a typical subdivision process.
(2) When developing parcels through a partition process the minimum road standard
for the partition shall be based on Table 3.2 – Right-of-way and Improvement
Standards Table for the number of proposed parcels including any potential
parcels from planned or unplanned future divisions.  It shall also include any
other properties utilizing the roadway.
(3) If the intent of the development is to not develop future parcels the applicant may
record a development restriction on any large parcels restricting their future
division.  The applicant may then construct the roadway as applicable taking into
account that those parcels may not be divided in the future.
(4) Alternatively, an applicant may record a temporary development restriction on the
larger parcel(s) with the condition that the full right of way or easement width
shall be reserved on the initial partition.  Any required future road improvements
shall be completed prior to the sale of those parcel(s) or the recording of any
future partition(s).
(5) All other roadway requirements shall be adhered to.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-149 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

Clatsop County Land and Water III-150 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Table 3.2 - Right-of-Way and Improvement Standards Table
Functional
Road Class A.D.T
Design
Standard
Typical
Travel
Width
R-O-W
Width(7)
Surface
Type
Design
Speed
MPH
Max.
%
Grade
Min.
Curve
Radius
Street
Signs
County Road Standards
Resource
Route
300-
1000 A-38 38 48-54 A.C..(6)/Oil 40 12 500 (1)
Arterial >1000 A –38 38 80 A.C.(6) 45 12 750 (1)
Major
Collector
300 –
1000 A –28 28*** 60 A.C.(6) 40 12 500 (1)
Minor
Collector  A-28 28*** 60 A.C.(6) 40 12 500 (1)
Local 60 –
300 A –20 20 50 A.C.(6)/Oil 35 12 350 (1)
Public and Private Road Standards
Land Division
(10+ lots) >60 A –20 20 50 A.C.(5) 25 12 250 (1)
Land Division
(7-9 lots)
30 –
60 A - 20 20 50 A.C.(5) 20 12** 150 (1)
Partition Land
Division
(4-6
lots/parcels***)
<60 G - 20 20 50 Gravel 20 12** 150 (1)
Land Division
(1-3 lots) <30 G – 14(4) 14 25 Gravel 15 14* 50 (1)
* If unavoidable conditions exist a grade of 2% greater than that shown may be allowed with A.C.
paving or concrete.
** If unavoidable conditions exist a grade of 4% greater than that shown may be allowed with A.C.
paving  or concrete.
*** May be reduced to 24 feet as specified in AASHTO if approved by the County Engineer.
(1) One (1) approved street sign will be provided at each intersection for each named street.
(2)     All dead-end streets will be terminated with a 50’ radius cul-de-sac or other approved
turnaround acceptable to the fire chief or State fire marshal.
(3) Drainage/slope easements may be required if roadway slopes extend beyond the right-of-way.
(4)     G-14 roads require turn-outs at a maximum distance of 400 feet, or at a lesser interval that will
maintain a continuous visual contact between each successive turn-out.
(5) Minimum A.C. thickness is 3” nominally compacted ODOT ½” Level 2, or approved equal. Any
roadway intended to be brought in to the County Road system will require 4” of AC.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-151 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

(6) Minimum AC thickness is 4” nominally compacted ODOT ½” Level 2, or approved equal.
(7) Easement width in the case of a private road.
This space deliberately left blank.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-152 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Figure 3.1

This space deliberately left blank.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-153 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Figure 3.2

This space deliberately left blank.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-154 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Figure 3.3

This space deliberately left blank.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-155 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Figure 3.4

This space deliberately left blank.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-156 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Figure 3.5

This space deliberately left blank.

Clatsop County Land and Water III-157 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Table 3.3 - Road Improvement Policy Matrix
 Resources Zones Non-Resource Zones
 New Road Created
or Existing Road
Used
New Road
Created Existing Road Used
1. Must a road be improved in
conjunction with a partition?
A. Private Road No Yes Yes (1)
B. Public Road No Yes No
C. County Road Yes (2) Yes No
2. Minimum Road Standard
Required?
A. Private Road n/a G-14 G-14 (1)
B. Public Road n/a G-20 G-20
C. County Road (2) A-20(3) A-20
(1)   If an existing private road provides access to a parcel, this road must be improved to at
least an G-14 standard. See Table 3.2 Right-of-way and Improvement Standards.
(2)   If a County road is created or utilized in a resource zone to provide access to a partitioned
parcel, the Board of Commissioners shall establish minimum improvement standards and
control the timing of the improvement.
(3)   If a new portion of a County road is created to provide access to a non-resource zone
partition, the Board of Commissioners shall set the improvement standards (the minimum
improvement shall be an A-20 standard).

Table 3.4- Minimum Road Standards for Private Roads
Revision Class
Maximum
 # of
Parcels
to be
Served
Maximum
Grade
Travel
Width
Recommended
Easement
Width
Design
Speed
Top
Course
Base
Course
A(4) Private Roads are not allowed within Class “A” Division except as noted
B 10 16% (3)
1(2) See
Table
3.2
See Table 3.2 -- -- --
C 10 16% (3)
1(2) See
Table
3.2
See Table 3.2 -- -- --

Clatsop County Land and Water III-158 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
(1)  "A" - Within an Urban Growth Boundary or Rural Service Area Boundary.
"B" - Zoned for 5 acres or smaller, excluding Class "A" divisions.
"C" - Zoned for larger than 5 acres in size.
(2)  Turnouts shall be provided intervisibly or at 800-foot intervals, whichever is less.
(3)  Grades greater than 14% shall be asphalt or concrete.
(4)  A private road is not permitted in an Urban Growth Boundary or Rural Service Area except that it
 may be permitted outside UGBs or RSAs.
Note:  See Sections 3.9840 and 3.9850 for complete standards.

SECTION 3.9900. PSILOCYBIN USE STANDARDS [ORD. 24-20]
1) Psilocybin Farm Use Standards
(A) Psilocybin active cultivation shall only occur within an enclosed structure.
(B) The farm use structure shall meet all applicable zoning requirements,
including building setback, size and height.
2) Psilocybin Manufacture Standards
(A) Psilocybin product manufacturing shall be conducted within an enclosed
structure.
(B) Structures used for psilocybin manufacturing shall not exceed 2,500 s.f. in
total floor space per parcel of land.
(C) Setback requirements for the underlying zoning district for all structures
associated with psilocybin uses.
3) Psilocybin Service Center Standards
(A) Operators of all psilocybin service centers shall maintain the necessary
state licenses and provide a copy to the County.
(B) Psilocybin service centers shall not be authorized as home occupations or
as a commercial activity in conjunction with a farm use.
4) General Use Standards
(A) Separation Distances. Psilocybin farm uses, psilocybin manufacture, or
psilocybin administration centers shall have a minimum 1000-foot setback
from the property line of all public, private or parochial schools.
(B) Hours of Operation. Hours of operation for psilocybin manufacturing and
psilocybin service centers shall be no earlier than 6:00 am and no later
than 10:00 pm, subject to the requirements of OAR 333-333-5250(3).
(C) Notwithstanding ORS chapter 195, 196, 197, 197A, 215 and 227, the
following are not permitted uses on land designated for exclusive farm
use:
i. A new dwelling used in conjunction with a psilocybin-producing
fungi crop.
ii. A farm stand, as described in ORS 215.213(1)(r) or 215.283(1)(o),
used in conjunction with a psilocybin-producing fungi crop; and

Clatsop County Land and Water III-159 Date: April 22, 2026
Development and Use Code                           Ordinance 25-16
ARTICLE 3. STRUCTURE SITING AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
iii. A commercial activity, as described in ORS 215.213(2)(c) or
215.283(2)(a), carried on in conjunction with a psilocybin-producing
fungi crop.
5) The following chart denotes the review procedures for psilocybin related uses.

District Psilocybin
Farm Use
Psilocybin
Manufacture
and
Processing
Psilocybin
Service
Centers
Agriculture-Forestry (AF) Allowed - -
Forest-80 (F-80) Allowed - -
Exclusive Farm Use (EFU Allowed - -
Heavy Industrial (HI) - Type II -
Light Industrial (LI) - Type II -
Rural Community Industrial (RCI) - Type II -
Rural Community Commercial and Light
Industrial (RCC-LI)
- Type II -
General Commercial (GC) - - Type II
Rural Community Commercial (RCC) - - Type II
Neighborhood Commercial (NC) - - Type II
Tourist Commercial (TC) - - Type II
Allowed as Defined Farm Use
Type II – Reviewed as Type II Procedure