March 2017 CLATSOP COUNTY Page A-34
 ADMINISTRATIVE POLICY & PROCEDURE

SUBJECT:  Animals in the Workplace

DATE:             February 2017     March 2017

I. PURPOSE

It is Clatsop County’s policy to provide a safe and healthy work environment for all
employees and visitors. In accordance with this, animals are prohibite d from all Clatsop
County facilities with the exception of authorized service animals and working animals as
defined below.

II.  POLICY

In addition to providing a safe and healthy  work environment, this policy responds to
concerns for providing a professional and conducive work environment . Further, it limits
potential distractions and disturbances in the workplace . This policy provides for the
health and safety of employees and County facilities by restricting animals in the
workplace as follows:
1. Unauthorized animals are not permitted in County workplace areas.
2. Employees and visitors are reminded that bringing a pet to work and leaving them in
a car is neither appropriate, nor safe and is prohibited is some jurisdictions.  Animals
left in a vehicle or oth erwise unattended may be reported to the appropriate local
authorities. Efforts may be made to reach the person prior to contacting authorities i f
the vehicle or pet can be identified as belonging to a specific employee.
3. In order to accommodate individuals  with disabilities, service animals are expressly
permitted in all areas in the workplace.
4. Employees who are in need of a service animal must obtain authorization through
the job accommodation process prior to bringing the animal to the worksite.
5. Instructional program animals (such as Fidelco Guide dogs) may be permitted on a
limited case -by-case basis, and only if approved in advance by the County
Manager.
6. In all cases, only clean, trained, well -behaved, non-aggressive animals are allowed,
and they are to be leashed and kept under control at all times.

CLATSOP COUNTY ADMINISTRATIVE POLICY NO. A-34
March 2017 CLATSOP COUNTY Page A-34
 ADMINISTRATIVE POLICY & PROCEDURE

7. It is the animal owner's responsibility to ensure that animals relieve themselves
outside and owners should not call upon co-workers or facilities staff.
8. Working animals are permitted under the direction of the Sheriff’s Office.
9. Individuals are reminded not to touch, feed or pet a service or working animal when
the animal is working as it distracts the animal from the task at hand.
This Policy shall apply to all employees, contractors , vendors and visitors of Clatsop County
and shall cover all areas of business operations of Clatsop County.
"Facility" means any Clatsop County owned or leased facility  excluding County parks, Fair &
Expo grounds and the Animal Shelter..
"Service Animals " refers to animals (prima rily dogs) used to guide or provide assistance to
persons with disabilities in the activities of independent living. The Americans with Disabilities
Act (ADA) defines service animals as any animal individually trained to do work or perform tasks
for the be nefit of an individual with a disability. If an animal meets this broad definition, it is
considered a service animal.
"Working Animals" refers to those animals engaged in authorized service to the corporation
(e.g., guard dogs, pest control animals, police dogs).

IV. VIOLATIONS

Violation of this policy shall be a basis for discipline up to and including termination.
Discipline is in addition to, and not in lieu of, any criminal or other action that may
occur if any reports are provided to local authoriti es. Violation of this policy may be
deemed malfeasance or willful or wanton neglect of duty, in which case the County
may decline to indemnify and defend an employee in a civil suit relating to the employee
violating this policy.