BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR COLUMBIA COUNTY, OREGON
ln the Matter of Adopting the columbia I oRDtNANcE No. 2019-5
County Parking and Towing Ordinance i
The Board of County Commissioners for Columbia County, Oregon, ordains as
follows:
SECTION 1. TITLE.
This Ordinance shall be known as Ordinance No. 2019-5 and may also be cited
and referred to as the "Columbia County Parking and Towing Ordinance."
SECTION 2. AUTHORITY
This Ordinance is adopted under the authority of ORS 203.035, 810.010,
810.040, 810.160, and 819.140.
SECTION 3. PURPOSE.
This Ordinance establishes regulations for the parking and towing of vehicles and
other activities on Coun$ roadways in order to prevent safety hazards, such as
obstructed views of the road and insufficient width for safe movement of vehicles and
pedestrians, that are caused by parked vehicles and other activities within roadways.
SECTION 4 APPLICATION.
This Ordinance shallapply to County Roads and LocalAccess Roads in
Columbia County; however, this Ordinance shall not apply within the limits of any city.
SECTION 5. ADOPTION.
The Columbia County Parking and Towing Ordinance, which is aftached hereto
as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by this reference, is hereby adopted.
SECTION 6 SEVERABILITY
lf any provision of this Ordinance, including Exhibit A, is for any reason held
invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be
deemed a separate, distinct, and independent provision and such holding shall not
affect the remaining portions thereof.
ORDINANCE NO.2O19-5 Page 1
SECTION 7 SCRIVENER'S ERRORS
Scrivener's errors in any portion of this Ordinance may be corrected by Order of
the Board of County Commissioners.
sEcTtoN 8. EMERGENCY
This Ordinance being immediately necessary to maintain the public health,
safe$, and welfare, an emergency is declared to exist, and this Ordinance shalltake
effect upon adoption,
DArED th60(4 day or
By:
First Reading
Second Reading
Effective Date:
By:
By:
By
I
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR IA COU , OREGON
ry
Tardif, Commissioner
ril
oRDTNANCE NO.2019-5 Page 2
EXHIBIT A
COLUMBIA COUNTY PARKING AND TOWING ORDINANCE
SEGTION 1. APPLICATION.
This Ordinance shall apply to County Roads and Local Access Roads in
Columbia County; however, this Ordinance shall not apply within the limits of any city
sEcTtoN 2. DEFINITIONS.
A. For the purposes of this Ordinance, words used in the present tense
include the future, the singular number includes the plural, the word .shall'
is mandatory and not advisory, and the term "this Ordinance' shall include
this Ordinance and allamendments made hereafter.
B. The words and phrases in this Ordinance shall have the meanings
provided in the Oregon Vehicle Code (ORS chapters 801 to 822), except:
1 Authorized Officer means the Sheriff, any Sherifi's Deputy,
Weighmaster, or any other person expressly authorized to enforce
this Ordinance pursuant to Section 11 of the Columbia County
Enforcement Ordinance.
Vehicle means every device in, upon, or by which any person or
property is, or may be, iransported or drawn upon any street or
highway, and includes any component thereof, including, but not
limited to cars, campers, recreational vehicles, motor homes,
pickup trucks, pickup truck canopies, and trailers.
Driving Surface means that portion of the road designed for
driving that is either asphalt or gravel. Driving surface does not
include the shoulder.
Road Right of Way means the right of way of a County Road or
Local Access Road outside the boundary of any city that has been
dedicated to the public for road and utility purposes and accepted
by Columbia County.
SECTION 3. PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
No Vehicle shall be parked, stopped, or left standing in violation of ORS
B1 1.550 to 811.560, or 811.570.
No Vehicle shall be parked within four (4) feet of the edge of the driving
surface of any road right of way.
1
2.
3.
A.
B.
No vehicle shall be parked upon any road right of way within twelve (12)
feet of any mailbox used for pickup or delivery of the United States mail.
No trailer shall be parked upon any road right of way unless it is aftached
to a motor vehicle by which it may be propelled or drawn. This paragraph
shall not apply to trailers that are disabled to such an extent that the driver
cannot avoid temporarily leaving the disabled trailer on the highway,
provided that the trailer must be removed within three {3) days. This
paragraph also shall not apply to trailers owned or operated under
authority of the State or County when necessary to perform work on the
roadway.
No vehicle shall be parked upon any road right of way in violation of "No
Parking" signs or markings, where the Board of County Commissioners
has authorized such signs or markings.
No vehicle shall be parked on any road right of way for more lhan 72
hours.
No vehicle shall be parked where it is impeding or likely to impede the
normal flow of vehicular, bicycle or pedestrian traffic; or where it is a
hazard or is likely to be a hazard to vehicular, bicycle, or pedestrian traffic.
No vehicle shall be parked on a road right of way when the vehicle
registration as indicated by registration stickers or registration card has
been expired for 90 days or more.
Overnight lodging in a vehicle, tent or otherwise is prohibited in the road
right of way.
No vehicle shall be parked on a road right of way if it impedes the safe
sight distance at an intersection or driveway, except for a vehicle of the
County, state or public utility while in use for construction or repair work on
a road right of way. Safe sight distance is determined by measuring
whether a person entering the road right of way from an intersecting road
or driveway has an unobstructed view of oncoming traffic for a dislance of
ten (10) times the posted speed limit.
SECTION 4. PERSON IN VIOLATION; REBUTTABLE PRESUMPTION.
Unless otherwise exempt from prohibitions on stopping, standing, or
parking as set forth in ORS 811.560, a person commits the violation of
illegal parking, stopping, or standing if:
c.
D.
E
F
G
H
J
A.
The person parks, stops, or leaves standing a vehicle in a place
where such action is prohibited by this Ordinance; or
2. The person is the owner of an unattended vehicle parked in a place
where such parking is prohibited by this Ordinance.
A person commits the violation of unlawful camping in the right of way if
the person lodges overnight, in a vehicle, tent or otherwise in the right of
way.
An authorized officer who finds a vehicle standing upon a road right of way
in violation of this Ordinance may move the vehicle, cause it to be moved,
or require the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to move it.
The authority to take such action under this Section is in addition to the
authority granted under Section 5.
There shall be a rebuttable presumption that the registered owner of the
vehicle, as shown in the records of the Oregon Department of Motor
Vehicles, parked the vehicle in violation of this Ordinance. The burden of
proof shall lie with the registered owner to show otherwise.
SECNON5. ENFORCEMENT
Failure to comply with this Ordinance shall be a violation enforceable
under the Columbia Coun$ Enforcement Ordinance. Violators of this
Ordinance are subject to the penalties provided in the Columbia County
Enforcement Ordinance.
When an authorized officer finds a vehicle parked in violation of this
Ordinance, the authorized officer may issue a citation to the owner or
operator of the vehicle, in accordance with the Columbia County
Enforcement Ordinance. The authorlzed officer issuing a citation shall:
1. lf the operator is present, issue the citation to the operator; or
lf the operator is not present, affix one copy of the citation to the
vehicle and mail another copy to the owner(s) or other person(s)
who reasonably appear to have an interest in the vehicle within 72
hours, Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays excluded. Additional
citations shall not be issued for the same violation on the same
vehicle unless at least 24 hours have passed since the previous
citation.
SECTION 6. TOWING WITHOUT PRIOR NOTICE.
I
B
c
D.
A.
B
2.
A. Towing a Vehicle without Prior Notice. An authorized officer may,
without prior notice, order a vehicle towed when:
1 A vehicle is parked, stopped or standing in violation of this
Ordinance.
The vehicle registration as indicated by registration stickers or
registration card has been expired for 90 days or more, the vehicle
is required to be registered when operated on a highway roadway,
and the vehicle is parked or being operated on a road right of way.
The vehicle alarm syslem disturbs, injures, or endangers the
peare, quiet, comfort, repose, health or safety of the public, if no
other reasonable disposition of the vehicle can be made and the
owner cannot be contacted by reasonable efforts.
The vehicle is illegally parked in a conspicuously posted restricted
space, zone, or traffic lane where parking is limited to designated
classes of vehicles, or is prohibited in excess of a designated time
period, or during certain hours, or on designated days, or is
prohibited during a construction project defined by designated
hours or days.
Notice After Tow. After a vehicle has been towed under this section,
notice of the towing and an opportunity for a hearing shall be sent within
48 hours of towing. The 48-hour period does not include holidays,
Saturdays or Sundays. The notice shall include the information required
by ORS 819.180, and shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the owners of the vehicle and any lessors or security interest
holders as shown in the records of the Oregon Department of
Transportation.
sEcTtoN 7. TOWING ABANDONED VEHICLES.
Towing an Abandoned Vehicle. Unless otherwise subject to towing
under Section 6, above, an abandoned vehicle may be towed if the
authorized officer has reason to believe that the vehicle is disabled or
abandoned, and the vehicle has been parked or left standing in the right of
way for more than 24 hours without authorization under state or local law.
Notice. Before towing an abandoned vehicle under this section, notice in
compliance with ORS 819.170 shallbe affixed to the vehicle at least 24
hours in advance. The 24-hour period includes holidays, Saturdays and
Sundays.
2
3.
4.
B
A.
B
Hearing. lf a timely request for a hearing has been received before the
vehicle is towed, the vehicle may not be towed prior to the hearing unless
the vehicle constitutes a hazard.
sEcItoN I PROCEDURE FOR VEHICLES WITH NO IDENTIFICATION
lf a vehicle that is subject to towing under Section 6 or 7, above, has no vehicle
identification number, regislration plate, or other markings from which the owner can be
identified through the records of the Oregon Department of Motor Vehicles, the County
may tow and dispose of the vehicle as though notice and an opportunity for a hearing
had been given.
sEcTtoN 9. VEHICLE INVENTORY AND REPORT
A. Every vehicle impounded under this Ordinance shall have its contents
inventoried as soon as practical after impoundment is ordered. An
inventory of an impounded vehicle is not a search for evidence of criminal
activity. The purpose of the inventory is, as follows:
1. To protect private property located within impounded vehicles;
2 To prevent or reduce the assertion of false claims for lost or stolen
property; and
To protect people and property from any hazardous condition,
material, or instrumentality that may be associated with an
impounded vehicle.
lnventories of impounded vehicles shall be conducted according to the
following procedure:
An inventory of personal property and the contents of open
containers will be conducted throughout the passenger and engine
compartments of the vehicle including, but not limited to, the glove
box, other accessible areas under or within the dashboard area,
any pockets in the doors or in the back of the front seat, in any
console between the seats, under any floor mats and under the
seats.
ln addition to the passenger and engine compartments as
described above, an inventory of personal property and the
contents of open containers will also be conducted in the following
locations:
a, Any other type of unlocked compartments that are a part of
the vehicle including, but not limited to, unlocked glove
C.
5.
6.
7
compartments, unlocked vehicle trunks and unlocked car top
containers.
b. Any locked compartments including, but not limited to,
locked glove compartments, locked vehicle trunks, locked
hatchbacks and locked car-top containers, provided the keys
are available and are to be released with the vehicle to the
third-party towing company or an unlocking mechanism for
such compartment is available within the vehicle.
Closed containers located either within the vehicle or any of the
vehicle's compartments will not be opened for inventory purposes
except for the following, which shall be opened for inventory:
wallets, purses, coin purses, fanny packs, personal organizers,
briefcases or other closed containers designed for carrying money
or small valuables, or closed containers which are designed for
hazardous materials.
Other closed containers shall be opened and inventoried if the
owner acknowledges they contain cash in excess of $10, valuables
or a hazardous material.
Any valuables, to include cash in excess of $10 or property valued
at more than $200, located during the inventory process will be
listed on a property receipt and stored in the property/evidence
room of the Columbia County Sheriffs Office. A copy of the
property receipt will either be left in the vehicle or tendered to the
person in control of the vehicle if such person is present.
The inventory is not a search for evidence of a crime, however,
deputies shall seize evidence or contraband located during the
inventory. ltems should be scrutinized to the extent necessary to
complete the inventory.
Where a container is not otherwise subject to being opened under
this Section, and the authorized officer has not obtained consent to
inventory the contents of the container, the container shatl be listed
in the inventory as a container with a description of its outward
appearance.
Upon completion of the inventory, a report shall be completed and signed
by the authorized officer and given to the registered owner of the vehiole
and any other person who reasonably appears to have an interest in the
vehicle. lf no such person is present when the vehicle is towed, a copy of
the report shall be left in a conspicuous place inside the vehicle and a
c
copy shall be mailed to the registered owner of the vehicle. A copy of the
report shall be given to the tow truck operator. The report shall include:
The reason for the tow;
The name of the company towing the vehicle;
The name of the company or agency having custody of the vehicle
for storage;
A list of the contents of the vehicle; and
Whether consent was obtained to search containers not otherwise
subject to being opened under this Ordinance.
Any items seized during the inventory, such as valuables, firearms,
contraband, and evidence of criminal activity, shall be listed on a property-
in-custody report and shall be given directly to the owner or operator of the
vehicle, or if such person is not present, shall be left in a conspicuous
place inside the vehicle and a copy shall be mailed to the registered owner
of the vehicle.
Nothing in this Section shall be construed as limiting or restricting the
authority of a law enforcement officer to engage in searches and seizures
for purposes other than the inventory of impounded vehicles.
SECTION 10. HEARING PROCEDURE.
A. Request for Hearing. After a vehicle has been towed pursuant to Section
6, or prior to towing pursuant to Section 7, the owner or any other person
who reasonably appears to have an interest in the vehicle, may file a
request for a hearing to contest the validity of the tow or intended tow of
the vehicle and the reasonableness of the charges for towing and storage,
as follows:
The request for a hearing shall be in writing and must be received
by the Records Supervisor, Columbia County Sheriff's Office, 901
Port Avenue, St. Helens, Oregon, 97051 within five (5) days of the
mailing date of the towing notice. The five-day period does not
include holidays, Saturdays, or Sundays.
2 The written request shall state the grounds upon which towing of
the vehicle is not justified;
B. Hearing Procedure.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
D
E.
2.
4.
Upon receipt of a timely request for a hearing, a hearing shall be
set and conducted within 72 hours of the receipt of the request, if
the vehicle remains impounded. The hearing may be set for a later
date if the vehicle is not impounded or if the owner or person
entitled to possession so requests. The 72-hour period does not
include holidays, Saturdays, or Sundays.
Notice of the hearing shall be provided to the person requesting the
hearing and to the owners of the vehicle and any lessors or security
interest holders shown in the records of the Oregon Department of
Transportation.
The hearing shall be held before a hearings officer, which may be a
Coun$ officer, official, or employee who has not participated in any
determination or investigation related to the towing and
impoundment of the subject vehicle.
At the hearing, the owner or person entitled to possession of the
vehicle may contest the validity of the towing or intended towing of
the vehicle. The County bears the burden of proof. The officer who
authorized the vehicle to be towed may submit an affidavit to the
hearings officer in lieu of a personal appearance. lf the hearings
officer finds by substantial evidence in the record:
a That the action of the County in towing the vehicle was valid,
the hearings oflicer shall order the vehicle to be held in
custody until the costs of the hearing and all towing and
storage costs are paid. lf the vehicle has not yet been
towed, the hearings officer shall order that the vehicle be
towed.
That the action of the County in towing the vehicle was
invalid, the hearings officer shall order the immediate release
of the vehicle to the owner or person with right of
possession. lf the vehicle is released, the person to whom
the vehicle is released is not liable for any towing or storage
charges, and lhe County shall at its sole discretion either
satisfy the towing and storage lien or provide for the
reimbursement of such costs. The vehicle must be picked
up the by the person entitled to possession within 24 hours
to avoid further storage charges. lf the vehicle is not claimed
within that time period, it will not be released until the
additionally accrued storage charges, if any, are paid by the
person entitle to possession of the vehicle.
b.
I
At the hearing, the owner or person entitled to possession of the
vehicle may contest the reasonableness of the towing and storage
costs, unless the person specifically requested the towing and/or
storage company. Towing and storage charges set by law,
ordinance, or rule, or that comply with law, ordinance, or rule are
reasonable for purposes of this Ordinance.
A person who fails to appear at a hearing under this Section is not
entitled to another hearing, and the hearings officer may enter an
order finding the towing to be valid and assessing towing and
storage charges against the owner.
The decision of the hearings officer is the final decision of the
County and shall be in writing.
SECTION II. LIEN FOR TOWING CHARGES.
Any person who tows or stores a vehicle at the request of an authorized officer pursuant
to this Ordinance shall have a lien on the vehicle and its contents, as set forth in ORS
819.160.
SECTION 12. SALE OR DISPOSAL OF VEHICLES.
A. Any vehicle that is not reclaimed within the time allowed by law may be
sold. However, if a hearing or decision of the hearings officer is pending,
the vehicle shall not be sold until at least seven (7) days after the decision
has been rendered. A vehicle is not "reclaimed" until the owner or other
person entitled to possession has fully paid all required fines, fees, and
charges, and provided such other documentation as is required under this
Ordinance.
B. Vehicles and their contents shall be sold or disposed of in accordance with
ORS 819.201 and 819.215. The proceeds of such sale or disposition shall
be first applied to the payment of costs and expenses incurred in the
towing and storage of the vehicle, and the balance, if any, shall be
credited to the General Fund of the County.
2
3.
I