Starting in September 2023, Paid Leave Oregon will serve most employees in
Oregon by providing paid leave for the birth or adoption of a child, a serious
illness of yours or a loved one, or if you experience sexual assault, domestic
violence, harassment, or stalking.
What benefits are provided
through Paid Leave Oregon and
who is eligible?
Employees in Oregon that have earned
at least $1,000 in the prior year may
qualify for up to 12 weeks of paid family,
medical or safe leave in a benefit year.
While on leave, Paid Leave Oregon pays
employees a percentage of their wages.
Benefit amounts depend on what an
employee earned in the prior year.
Who pays for Paid Leave Oregon?
Starting on January 1, 2023, employees
and employers contribute to Paid Leave
Oregon through payroll taxes.
Contributions are calculated as a
percentage of wages and your employer
will deduct your portion of the
contribution rate from your paycheck.
When do I need to tell my
employer about taking leave?
If your leave is foreseeable, you are
required to give notice to your employer
at least 30 days before starting paid
family, medical or safe leave. If you do not
give the required notice, Paid Leave
Oregon may reduce your first weekly
benefit by 25%.
How do I apply for Paid Leave?
In September 2023, you can apply for
leave with Paid Leave Oregon online at
paidleave.oregon.gov or request a
paper application from the department. If
your application is denied, you can
appeal the decision with the Oregon
Employment Department.

What are my rights?
If you are eligible for paid leave, your
employer cannot prevent you from taking
it. Y our job is protected while you take
paid leave if you have worked for your
employer for at least 90 consecutive
calendar days. Y ou will not lose your
pension rights while on leave and your
employer must keep giving you the same
health benefits as when you are working.
How is my information protected?
Any health information related to family,
medical or safe leave that you choose to
share with your employer is confidential
and can only be released with your
permission, unless the release is required
by law.
What if I have questions about my
rights?
It is unlawful for your employer to
discriminate or retaliate against you
because you asked about or claimed
paid leave benefits. If your employer is
not following the law, you have the right
to bring a civil suit in court or to file a
complaint with the Oregon Bureau of
Labor & Industries (BOLI). Y ou can file a
complaint with BOLI online, via phone or
email:
Web: www.oregon.gov/boli
Call: 971-245-3844
Email: help@boli.oregon.gov

Learn more about Paid Leave Oregon
Web: paidleave.oregon.gov
Call:  833-854-0166
Email: paidleave@oregon.gov
Paid Leave Model Notice Poster

What you need to know