ARTICLE XII – Page 1

ARTICLE TWELVE – COUNTY TAXES

DIVISION ONE – IMPOSE TAX ON MARIJUANA ITEMS SOLD BY MARIJUANA
               RETAILERS [Adopted as Division One of Article
  Twelve on June 12, 2016, approved in the
 general election of November 8, 2016 and
effective on January 1, 2017.]

SECTION 12.01.010  TITLE

Impose Tax on Marijuana Items Sold by Marijuana Retailers.

SECTION 12.01.020  PURPOSE

The purpose of this Division is to impose a three percent (3%)
tax on the sale of marijuana items by a marijuana retailer in
the area subject to the jurisdiction of the County.

SECTION 12.01.030  DEFINITIONS

Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions
given in this section govern the construction of this ordinance.
(1) Board means the Board of County Commissioners of Coos
 County.
(2) Marijuana item(s) means marijuana, cannabinoid
products, cannabinoid concentrates, and cannabinoid
extracts as defined in ORS 475B.015(16).
(3) Marijuana retailer means a person who sells marijuana
items to a consumer in this state as defined in ORS
475B.015(20).
(4) Retail sale price means the price paid for a marijuana
item, excluding tax, to a marijuana retailer by or on
behalf of a consumer of the marijuana item.
(5) Tax Administrator means the Board or the person it so
designates to receive returns and tax payments
pursuant to this Ordinance.

SECTION 12.01.040  IMPLEMENTING ORDINANCE AUTHORIZATION

The Board may, by separate ordinance, promulgate additional
definitions, rules and regulations necessary or convenient for
the administration, collection, refund, and enforcement of this
ordinance.

ARTICLE XII – Page 2

SECTION 12.01.050  TAX IMPOSED

Pursuant to ORS 475B.345, Coos County hereby imposes a tax of
three percent (3%) on the retail sale price of marijuana items
by a marijuana retailer in the area subject to the jurisdiction
of the County. The tax must be computed on the total retail
price, including all charges other than taxes, paid by a
consumer of marijuana items.  The tax imposed by this Ordinance
does not repeal or supersede any similar tax enacted by a city.

SECTION 12.01.060  COLLECTION AND REMITTANCE
(1) The tax shall be collected at the point of sale of a
marijuana item by a marijuana retailer at the time at
which the retail sale occurs and remitted by each
marijuana retailer that engages in the retail sale of
marijuana items pursuant to the procedure set forth in
this Ordinance and/or any subsequent rules promulgated
by the Board.
(a) Every marijuana retailer shall keep records,
render statements and comply with all rules
adopted by the Board with respect to the tax
imposed by this Ordinance; the records must be
sufficient to show the tax liability of the
marijuana retailer.
(b) Every marijuana retailer shall file a return with
the County Tax Administrator, on or before the
last day of the month following the end of each
calendar quarter, reporting the amount of tax due
during the quarter in a form as set forth by the
Board, or its designee, and subject to penalties
for false swearing.
(c) When a return is required under this Ordinance,
the marijuana retailer required to make the
return shall remit the tax due to the Tax
Administrator at the time fixed for filing the
return.
(d) Every marijuana retailer shall be deemed to hold
the amount collected pursuant to this Ordinance
in trust for Coos County and for payment to the
Tax Administrator.
(e) If any marijuana retailer fails to remit any
amount held in trust for Coos County pursuant to
this Ordinance, the County may enforce collection
according to the rules and regulations adopted
under Section 12.01.040 or as otherwise provided
by law.

ARTICLE XII – Page 3

SECTION 12.01.070  EXEMPTIONS

The sale of medical marijuana by an entity registered with the
Oregon Health Authority under ORS 475B.450 is exempt from the
tax imposed under this Ordinance; provided however, that to the
extent such an entity also engages in the sale of marijuana
items as a marijuana retailer under Oregon Revised Statutes
regulating the Recreational Use of Cannabis, no such exemption
shall apply to those sales.

SECTION 12.01.080  PENALTIES

Violation of any of the provisions of this Ordinance shall
constitute a Class A Violation, subject to a maximum penalty of
$2,000.00 for each day a violation occurs.

ARTICLE XII – Page 4

ARTICLE TWELVE – COUNTY TAXES

DIVISION TWO – COOS COUNTY TAX ON MARIJUANA ITEMS SOLD BY
   MARIJUANA RETAILERS IMPLEMENTING ORDINANCE
   [Adopted as Division Two of Article Twelve
    on February 6, 2018; effective May 7, 2018.]

SECTION 12.02.010  TITLE
Coos County Tax on Marijuana Items Sold by Marijuana Retailers
Implementing Ordinance.

SECTION 12.02.020  PURPOSE
The purpose of this Division is to promulgate additional
definitions, rules and regulations necessary or convenient for
the administration, collection, refund, and enforcement of
Article 12, County Taxes, Division One and Ordinance 16-04-003L.

SECTION 12.02.030  DEFINITIONS
Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions
given in this section govern the construction of this Division.
(1) Board means the Board of County Commissioners of Coos
County.
(2) Consumer means a person who purchases, acquires, owns,
holds, or uses marijuana items other than for the purpose
of resale.
(3) Marijuana item(s) means marijuana, cannabinoid products,
cannabinoid concentrates, and cannabinoid extracts as
defined in ORS 475B.015 (16).
(4) “Marijuana Item Tax Review Committee” means the Board of
County Commissioners or a committee composed of three (3)
qualified persons appointed by the Board.
(5) Marijuana retailer means a person who sells marijuana
items to a consumer in this state as defined in ORS
475B.015 (20).
(6) Retail sale price means the price paid by a consumer for
a marijuana item, excluding tax, to a marijuana retailer
by or on behalf of a consumer of the marijuana item.

ARTICLE XII – Page 5

(7) Tax means the 3% tax on the sale of marijuana items
imposed under this Division pursuant to ORS 475D.345 and
Ordinance 16-04-003L.
(8) Tax Administrator means the Board of County Commissioners
or the qualified person it so designates to receive
returns and tax payments pursuant to this Division.

SECTION 12.02.040  AUTHORIZATION
The Board hereby, pursuant to County Code 12.01.040, promulgates
additional definitions, rules and regulations necessary or
convenient for the administration, collection, refund, and
enforcement of the Marijuana Item Tax imposed by Article Twelve,
County Taxes, Division One.

SECTION 12.02.050  COLLECTION AND REMITTANCE
(1)  The tax shall be collected at the point of sale of a
marijuana item by a marijuana retailer at the time at
which the retail sale occurs and remitted by each
marijuana retailer that engages in the retail sale of
marijuana items pursuant to the procedure set forth in
this Division and/or any subsequent rules promulgated by
the Board. The tax shall not be collected from a
“registry identification cardholder,” as defined by ORS
475.410, or a “designated primary caregiver,” as defined
by ORS 475.410, who is purchasing a marijuana item for a
registry identification cardholder.
(a) Every marijuana retailer shall keep receipts,
invoices, and other records sufficient to show the
tax liability of the marijuana retailer. A marijuana
retailer shall render statements and comply with all
rules adopted by the Board with respect to the tax
imposed by this Division.
(b) Every marijuana retailer shall file a return with
the Tax Administrator, on or before the last day of
the month following the end of each calendar
quarter, reporting the amount of tax due during the
quarter in a form as set forth by the Board, or its
designee, and subject to penalties for false
swearing. A return shall be filed even if no taxes
have been collected by the marijuana retailer.
(c) A marijuana retailer required to file a return shall
deliver the return, together with the remittance of
ARTICLE XII – Page 6

the amount of the tax due, to the Tax
Administrator’s office, either by personal delivery
or by mail. If the return is mailed, the postmark
shall be considered the date of delivery for
determining delinquencies.
(d) When a return is required under this Division, the
marijuana retailer required to make the return shall
remit any tax due to the Tax Administrator on or
before the last day of the month following the end
of each calendar quarter. Any marijuana retailer who
fails remit the tax due to the Tax Administrator
within the applicable time period is subject the
penalties set forth in Section 12.02.070 of this
Division.
(e) Every marijuana retailer shall be deemed to hold the
amount collected pursuant to this Division in trust
for Coos County and for payment to the Tax
Administrator.
(f) If any marijuana retailer fails to remit any amount
held in trust for Coos County pursuant to this
Division, the County may enforce collection
according to the rules and regulations adopted under
this Division, or as otherwise provided by law.

SECTION 12.02.060 REGISTRATION OF MARIJUANA RETAILER;
FORM AND CONTENTS; EXECUTION;
CERTIFICATE OF AUTHORITY
(1) Every person or entity about to engage in business as
a marijuana retailer in the county shall register with
the Tax Administrator within fifteen (15) days after
commencing business. All marijuana retailers operating
within the county’s jurisdiction at the time of the
adoption of this Division are exempt from the
registration requirement contained herein. However,
any subsequent additional place of business opened by
a registration exempt marijuana retailer after the
effective date of this Division is subject to the
registration requirements contained herein. A
marijuana retailer exempt from registration under this
section shall be subject to all other requirements of
this Division.
(2) Registration of a marijuana retailer shall be provided
on a form provided by the Tax Administrator.
ARTICLE XII – Page 7

SECTION 12.02.070  PENALTIES AND INTEREST ON TAX
(1) Penalty-Original Delinquency. Any marijuana retailer
who fails to remit any portion of any tax imposed
pursuant to this Division within the time required
shall pay, in addition to the amount of the tax, a
penalty of the greater of ten percent (10%) of the
amount of the tax due or one hundred dollars ($100).
(2) Penalty-Continued Delinquency. Any marijuana retailer
who fails to remit any delinquent remittance on or
before a period of 30 days following the date on which
the remittance first became delinquent, shall pay a
penalty of fifteen percent (15%) of the amount of the
tax in addition to the amount of the tax and penalty
first imposed.
(3)  Interest. In addition to the penalties imposed, any
marijuana retailer who fails to remit any tax imposed
by this Division shall pay interest at the rate of one
percent (1%) per month or fraction thereof on the
amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the
date on which the remittance first became delinquent
until paid.
(4) Penalties and Interest Merged With Tax. Every penalty
imposed and such interest as accrues under the
provisions of this Division shall be merged with and
become a part of the tax herein required to be paid.

SECTION 12.02.080 DEFICIENCY DETERMINATIONS; EVASION;
DELAY; APPEAL
(1)  Deficiency Determinations. If the Tax Administrator
determines that the returns filed by a marijuana
retailer are incorrect, the amount required may be
computed and determined upon the basis of the facts
contained in the return or returns or upon the basis
of any information in the possession of the Tax
Administrator. One or more deficiency determinations
may be made of the amount due for one, or more than
one, period, and the amount so determined shall be due
and payable immediately upon service of notice as
herein provided after which the amount determined is
delinquent. Penalties on deficiencies shall be applied
as set forth in Section 12.02.070.
ARTICLE XII – Page 8

(a)  In making a deficiency determination, the Tax
Administrator may offset previous overpayments,
if any, which may have been previously made for a
period or periods, against any underpayment for a
subsequent period or periods, or against
penalties and interest on the underpayments. The
interest on underpayments shall be computed in
the manner set forth in Section 12.02.070.
(b)  The Tax Administrator shall give to the marijuana
retailer a written notice of the deficiency
determination. The notice may be served
personally or by mail. If by mail, the notice
shall be addressed to the marijuana retailer at
the address as it appears on the records of the
Tax Administrator. In case of service by mail of
any notice required by this Division, it shall be
served by mailing such notice by certified mail,
postage prepaid, return receipt requested.
(c)  Except in the case of fraud or intent to evade
this Division or other authorized rules or
regulations, every deficiency determination shall
be made and notice thereof mailed within three
years after the last day of the month following
the close of the quarterly period for which the
amount is proposed to be determined, or within
three years after the return is filed, whichever
period expires later.
(d)  Any determination shall become due and payable
immediately upon receipt of notice and shall
become final within twenty days after the Tax
Administrator has given notice thereof; provided,
however, the marijuana retailer may petition for
a review of the determination by the Marijuana
Item Tax Review Committee within twenty (20) days
after the service of such notice.
(2)  Fraud; Refusal to Collect; Evasion. If a marijuana
retailer shall fail or refuse to collect the tax or to
make, within the time provided in this Division, any
report or remittance of the tax or any portion thereof
required by this Division, or makes a fraudulent
return or otherwise willfully attempts to evade this
Division, the Tax Administrator shall proceed in such
manner deemed best to obtain the facts and information
on which to base an estimate of the tax due. As soon
ARTICLE XII – Page 9

as the Tax Administrator has determined the tax due
that is imposed by this Division, the Tax
Administrator shall proceed to determine and assess
against such marijuana retailer the tax, interest, and
penalties provided by this Division. When this
determination is made, notice shall be given as
provided in subsection (1)(b) of this section of the
amount so assessed. Such determination and notice
shall be made and mailed within three years of the
discovery of any fraud, intent to evade, failure or
refusal to collect the tax, or failure to file a
return. Any determination shall become due and payable
upon receipt of notice and shall become final within
twenty days after the Tax Administrator has given
notice thereof; provided, however, the marijuana
retailer may request a review of the determination by
filing a petition with the Marijuana Item Tax Review
Committee within twenty days after the service of such
notice.

SECTION 12.02.090 APPEAL TO MARIJUANA ITEM TAX REVIEW
COMMITTEE
Any determination by the Tax Administrator pursuant to this
Division, or any other applicable law, may be appealed to the
Marijuana Item Tax Review Committee within twenty (20) days of
serving or mailing of the tax notice or a decision given by the
Tax Administrator. All appeals must be in writing and clearly
identify the determination of the Tax Administrator being
appealed. The Marijuana Item Tax Review Committee shall fix a
time and place for hearing such appeal and shall give the
appellant not less than twenty days written notice of the time
and place of hearing.

SECTION 12.02.100  MARIJUANA ITEM TAX REVIEW COMMITTEE
The Board of Commissioners is authorized to create a Marijuana
Item Tax Review Committee composed of at least three (3)
members. If said Committee is not created, the Board shall
perform all duties and have all powers given to the Committee by
this Division. The Committee shall select from its members a
chairman who shall serve at its pleasure. The committee shall
keep a record of its transactions. The Committee shall be deemed
to be in the office of the Tax Administrator and shall keep its
files in that office. The members of the Committee shall not, at
ARTICLE XII – Page 10

any time, receive any compensation as such members or acting
members for their services on the Committee. The Committee shall
be appointed by the Board and shall serve 4-year terms.

SECTION 12.02.110 DUTIES AND POWERS OF MARIJUANA ITEM TAX
REVIEW COMMITTEE
The Committee’s duties shall be:
(1)  To hear and determine appeals of orders or decisions
of the Tax Administrator. The Committee may affirm,
modify or reverse such orders or decisions, or dismiss
the appeals, as may be just, and shall prescribe such
forms, rules and regulations relating to appeals as
may be deemed necessary. In review of the Tax
Administrator decision or order, the committee may
take such evidence and make such investigation as is
deemed necessary. It shall give notice of its
determinations in the manner set forth in Section
12.02.080(1)(b)and shall file a copy of such
determination with the Tax Administrator with
certification thereon of the date of service thereof.
Such determination shall be final and conclusive upon
filing of the determination with the Tax
Administrator.
(2) To approve, modify, or disapprove all forms and
policies prescribed by the Tax Administrator in the
administration and enforcement of this Division.
(3)  To hear and determine in such manner as shall be just,
any protest which may be made by any person who may be
interested, to any form or policy approved or
prescribed by the Committee.
(4)  To make such investigations as are deemed advisable
regarding the imposition and administration of the
marijuana item tax and report the findings to the
Board; to act in an advisory capacity to the Board on
matters pertaining to the marijuana item tax and
enforcement problems and to recommend to the Board the
adoption, amendment, or repeal of regulations
pertaining thereto.

SECTION 12.02.120  LIEN
(1)  The tax imposed by this Division together with the
interest and penalties, reasonable attorneys' fees,
filing fees, and advertising costs shall be and, until
ARTICLE XII – Page 11

paid, remain a lien from the date of its recording
with the clerk, and superior to all subsequent
recorded liens on all tangible personal property used
in the business of a marijuana retailer within the
county, and may be foreclosed on and sold as may be
necessary to discharge said lien. Upon the recording
of the lien with the county clerk, notice of the lien
shall be issued by the Tax Administrator whenever the
marijuana retailer is in default in the payment of the
tax, interest, and/or penalty. A copy of the notice
shall be sent by certified mail to the marijuana
retailer. The personal property subject to a lien
seized by any deputy or employee of the Tax
Administrator may be sold at public auction after 10
days’ notice by one publication in a newspaper of
general circulation published in the county. Any lien
for taxes shown on the records of the proper county
official shall, upon payment of all taxes, penalties,
and interest thereon, be released by the Tax
Administrator when the full amount determined to be
due has been paid to the county. Upon payment, the
marijuana retailer or person making such payment shall
have a receipt stating thereon that the full amount of
taxes, penalties, and interest have been paid and that
the lien is hereby released and the record of lien is
satisfied.
(2)  The lien or liens created by this section attach to
all tangible personal property referenced herein. The
lien or liens created shall also attach to the
proceeds of the sale of tangible personal property
subject to the lien or liens if: (A) Subsequent to the
recording of the lien or liens, tangible personal
property, or any part thereof, is sold or delivered to
an agent, broker, cooperative agency, or other person
to be sold or otherwise disposed of; and (B) The
purchaser, agent, broker, cooperative agency, or other
person has actual or constructive notice of the filing
of the lien or liens, and the proceeds that were
received or will be received from the sale or other
disposal of the tangible personal property have not
been delivered to the owner of the tangible personal
property.
ARTICLE XII – Page 12

(3)  Any person to whom a notice of lien has been given as
provided by this section, who dismantles, removes from
the county, misdelivers, or conceals tangible personal
property or the proceeds of the sale of tangible
personal property upon which there is a valid lien
without the written consent of the lien claimant shall
be liable to the lien claimant for damages proximately
resulting therefrom.

SECTION 12.02.130 INSPECTION OF RECORDS; DEMAND FOR
RECORDS; REIMBURSEMENT OF TAX
ADMINISTRATOR’S EXPENSES
(1) The Tax Administrator, upon oral or written demand,
may examine during business hours the books, papers,
records, and equipment of marijuana retailers and
conduct any other investigation the Tax Administrator
deems necessary to carry out the provisions of this
Division.
(2)  Upon written demand, the Tax Administrator may require
a marijuana retailer to deliver to the Tax
Administrator the books, papers, records, or any other
documents necessary to determine the tax liability of
a marijuana retailer. The marijuana retailer may
provide the Tax Administrator with copies of said
documents. A marijuana retailer shall be given no less
than thirty (30) days to comply with a Tax
Administrator’s request for records under this
section. The request for records must be served upon a
marijuana retailer in the manner specified in Section
12.02.080(1)(b) of this Division.
(3) If a marijuana retailer is found to be in violation of
this Division, subject to a deficiency determination
under Section 12.02.080(1), and/or found to have
committed fraud or willfully evaded the provisions of
Section 12.02.080(2), the marijuana retailer shall be
responsible for all reasonable costs incurred by the
Tax Administrator in inspecting records, requesting
records, reviewing records, or taking any other
investigatory actions pursuant to this section and
resulting from the violation, deficiency, fraud, or
willful evasion of this Division by the marijuana
retailer.

ARTICLE XII – Page 13

SECTION 12.02.140  EXEMPTIONS
(1) The sale of medical marijuana by an entity registered
with the Oregon Health Authority under ORS 475B.450
are exempt from the tax imposed under this Division;
provided however, that to the extent such an entity
also engages in the sale of marijuana items as a
marijuana retailer under Oregon Revised Statutes
regulating the Recreational Use of Cannabis, no such
exemption shall apply to those sales.
(2) The tax imposed by County Code 12.01.050 and collected
pursuant to this Division shall not be imposed on the
sale of marijuana retail items to a “registry
identification cardholder,” as defined by ORS
475B.410, or on a “designated primary caregiver,”
defined by ORS 475B.410, who is purchasing a marijuana
item for a registry identification cardholder.

SECTION 12.02.150  SEVERABILITY
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase of this Division, or any part thereof, is for any reason
held to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such decision
shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
Division or any part thereof. The Board hereby declares that it
would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision,
paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase thereof, irrespective of
the fact that any one or more sections, subsections,
subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid.

SECTION 12.02.160  VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES
It is unlawful for any marijuana retailer or other person so
required, to fail or refuse to register, furnish any required
return or other data required by the Tax Administrator, or to
render a false or fraudulent return. No person required to make,
render, sign, or verify any report shall make any false or
fraudulent report, with intent to defeat or evade the
determination of any amount due under this Division. Violation
of any of the provisions of this Division shall constitute a
Class A Violation, subject to a maximum penalty of two thousand
dollars ($2,000) for each day a violation occurs.

ARTICLE XII – Page 14

ARTICLE TWELVE – COUNTY TAXES

DIVISION THREE –  COOS COUNTY TAX ON TRANSIENT LODGING IN THE
    CHARLESTON AREA[Adopted as Division Three of
    Article Twelve on August 2, 2022]

SECTION 12.03.010  PURPOSE
The purpose of this Division is to impose a 9.5% transient lodging
tax (TLT) in the Charleston A rea; provide for collection and
enforcement; and establish penalties.

SECTION 12.03.020 WHERE TAX IS IMPOSED

The TLT shall be imposed in the “Charleston Area,” as further
described in Attachment A hereto.

SECTION 12.03.030  IMPLEMENTING ORDINANCE AUTHORIZATION

The Board may, by separate ordinance(s), promulgate additional
definitions, rules and regulations necessary or convenient for the
administration, collection, refund and enforcement of the TLT.

SECTION 12.03.040  DEFINITIONS
Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions given
in this section govern the construction of this Division.
(6) Board means the Board of County Commissioners of Coos
County.
(7) County means Coos County.
(8) Transient Lodging Provider means a person that furnishes
transient lodging.
(9) Transient Lodging Intermediary means a person other than a
transient lodging provider that facilitates the retail sale
of transient lodging and:
a. Charges for occupancy of the transient lodging;
b. Collects the consideration charged for occupancy of
the transient lodging; or
c. Receives a fee or commission and requires the transient
lodging provider to use a specified third -party entity
to collect the consideration charged for occupancy of
the transient lodging.
ARTICLE XII – Page 15

(10) Transient Lodging Tax Collector means a transient lodging
provider or transient lodging intermediary.
(11) Occupancy means the right to the use or possession of any
space in transient lodging for dwelling, lodging or
sleeping purposes for less than 30 days.
(12) Occupant means any individual who exercises occupancy or
is entitled to occupancy in transient lodging for a
period of 30 consecutive calendar days or less, counting
portions of calendar days as full days.
(13) Person means any individual, firm, partnership, joint
venture, limited liability company, corporation, limited
liability partnership, association, host, social club,
fraternal organization, fraternity, sorority, public or
private dormitory, joint stock company, estate, trust,
business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, or any
other group or combination acting as a unit.
(14) Rent means the consideration paid or payable by an
occupant for the occupancy of space in transient lodging
valued in money, goods, labor, credits, property, or
other consideration.  If a separate fee is charged for
services, goods or commodities and the fee is optional,
that fee is not included in rent.
(15) Short-Term Rental  means a house, duplex, multi -plex,
apartment, condominium, houseboat, trailer or other
residential dwelling unit where a person rents a guest
bedroom or the entire residential dwelling unit for
transient lodging occupancy.  Generally, a short -term
rental is zoned residential or has a building occupancy
that only allows for residential use.
(16) Short-Term Rental Hosting Platform means a business or
other person that facilitates the retail sale of
transient lodging by connecting occupants with transient
lodging providers, either online or in any other manner.
Short-term rental hosting platforms are transient lodging
intermediaries.
(17) Tax Administrator means the Coos County Finance Director,
or its designee, which may include the Oregon Department
of Revenue.  If the County utilizes the Oregon Department
of Revenue as its tax administrator, it will comply with
ORS 305.620 in that it will follow the rules adopted by
the Department of Revenue regarding the administration,
collection, enforcement and distribution of transient
lodging taxes.
(18) Tourism Promotion means:
ARTICLE XII – Page 16

(a) Advertising, publicizing or distributing information
for the purpose of attracting and welcoming tourists; or
(b) Conducting strategic planning and research necessary
to stimulate future tourism development;
(c) Operating tourism promotion agencies; or
(d) Marketing special events and festivals designed to
attract tourists.
(19) Tourism-Related Facilities means:
(a) A conference center, convention center, or visitor
information center; or
(b) Other improved real property that has a useful life of
ten (10) or more years and has a substantial purpose of
supporting tourism or accommodating tourist activities.
(20) Transient Lodging or Transient Lodging Facilities means:
a. Hotel, motel, and inn dwelling units that are used for
temporary overnight human occupancy;
b. Spaces used for overnight parking of recreational
vehicles or placement of tents during periods of human
occupancy; or
c. Houses, cabins, condominiums, apartment units or other
dwelling units, or portions of any of these dwelling
units that are used for temporary human occupancy.
(21) TLT or tax means the transient lodging tax.
SECTION 12.03.050  TAX IMPOSED
(1) Effective October 1, 2022 , each transient lodging tax
collector shall pay a TLT in the amount of 9.5% of the
rent. The occupant shall pay the TLT with the rent to the
transient lodging tax collector.  TLT amounts shall be
rounded down to the nearest cent. The transient lodging
tax collector shall maintain records of all rent charged
and TLT payments received.  If rent is paid in
installments, a proportionate share of the TLT shall be
paid by the occupant to the transient lodging tax collector
with each installment unless the occupant pays the entire
amount with the first payment.
(2) Bills, receipts or invoices provided to occupants shall
list the TLT separately and must accurately state the
amount of tax.  All amounts listed as TLT on invoices,
bills or receipts must be reported as TLT and, a fter
collection, must be turned over to the County, less the 5%
administrative charge.

ARTICLE XII – Page 17

SECTION 12.03.060  COLLECTION OF TAX
(1) Every transient lodging tax collector shall collect the
TLT at the time rent is paid, unless an exemption applies.
If payment is by credit card, for purposes of this section,
payment is made at the time credit card information is
provided to the transient lodging tax collector, not when
the transient lodging tax collector ultimately receives
credit for the transaction.  While holding the payment in
trust for the County, a transient lodging tax collector
may commingle the tax proceeds with the transient lodging
tax collector’s funds, but the transient lodging tax
collector is not the owner of tax proceeds, except that,
when a return is filed, the transient lodging tax collector
becomes the owner of the administrative fee authorized to
be retained.  Transient lodging tax collectors may choose
to file returns and remit payment based on amounts accrued
but not yet collected. The transient lodging tax collector
is liable to the County for any TLT that should have been
collected from the occupant, except in cases of nonpayment
of rent by the occupant.
(2) Upon request of the  County, transient lodging tax
collectors must provide all physical addresses of transient
lodging facilities  within the Charleston Area  and the
related contact information, including the name and mailing
address, of the general manager, agent, owner, host or
other responsible person for the location.
SECTION 12.03.070  SHORT-TERM RENTAL HOSTING PLATFORM FEES
A hosting platform for short -term rentals may collect a fee for
booking services in connection with short -term rentals only when
those short-term rentals are lawfully registered as operators with
the County and possess a certificate of authority at the time the
short-term rental is occupied.
SECTION 12.03.080  LIABILITY FOR TAX
Transient lodging providers who receive any portion of the rent
for transient lodging and transient lodging intermediaries that
provide booking service are both transient lodging tax collectors
and are jointly and severally liable for the tax.
SECTION 12.03.090 REGISTRATION OF TRANSIENT LODGING
PROVIDER – FORM AND CONTENTS – EXECUTION
– CERTIFICATION OF AUTHORITY
ARTICLE XII – Page 18

(1) Every person engaging or about to engage in business as
a transient lodging provider shall provide a completed
registration form to the tax administrator within 15
calendar days after commencing business.  The
registration form shall require the transient lodging
provider to provide the name of the business, any
separate business addresses, and other information as
the tax administrator may require to implement this
Division.  Transient lodging providers who own or
operate transient lodging facilities in the Charleston
Area shall provide the address of the lodging facility.
The registration form shall be signed by the transient
lodging provider.  The tax administrator shall, within
15 days after registration, issue without charge a
certificate of authority to collect the TLT.  The
transient lodging provider’s obligation to collect the
TLT is imposed once rent for transient lodging is paid,
even if the registration form has not been filed or if
the certificate has not been issued.  If the rent
transaction is facilitated online, the certificate of
authority must be able to be viewed by the occupant by
clicking on a link to the certificate of authority at a
reasonable place during the payment transaction.
(2) Certificates shall be non -assignable and non -
transferable and shall be surrendered to the tax
administrator when the business is sold or transferred
or when a transient lodging facility ceases to operate
at the location specified in the registration form.  Each
certificate issued to a transient lodging prov ider for
a specific lodging facility shall be prominently
displayed at the lodging facility and include:
 a. The name of the transient lodging provider;
 b. The address of the transient lodging facility;
 c. The date the certificate was issued; and
 d. The certificate number as assigned by the tax
administrator.
Section 12.03.100  REMITTANCES AND RETURNS
(1) Transient lodging tax collectors must submit a completed
tax return form to the tax administrator on or before
the last day of the month following the end of each
calendar quarter, reporting the amount of tax due during
the quarter and accompanied by remittance of all tax
collected, less a 5% administration fee.  The return
ARTICLE XII – Page 19

shall be filed in such form as the tax administrator may
prescribe.  The tax administrator if they deem it
necessary in order to insure payment or facilitate
collection by the County of the amount of taxes in any
individual case, may require returns and payment of the
amount of taxes on other than monthly periods.
(2) The transient lodging tax collector is entitled to the
administration fee.  If a transient lodging facility has
multiple owners, they are not entitled to retain
additional fees.
(3) Remittances are delinquent if not made by the last day
of the month in which they are due.
(4) Returns shall show the gross rents collected, taxable
rents, the total amount of TLT collected and the amount
of the administrative fee retained by the transient
lodging tax collector.  Returns shall also show the
exempt and excluded rents and the basis for  exemptions
and exclusions.
(5) The person required to file the return shall deliver the
return, together with payment of the amount of the tax
due, to the tax administrator, to the appropriate
office, either by personal delivery, by mail, or by
electronic tax  return filed through a reporting and
payment portal furnished by the tax administrator, or
its designee.  If the return is mailed, the postmark
shall be considered the date of delivery.
(6) The tax administrator may extend the time for making any
return or remittance of the tax by up to 30 days.  No
further extension shall be granted, except by the Coos
County Board of Commissioners .  Any transient lodging
tax collector to whom an extension is granted shall pay
interest at the rate of  1% per month on the amoun t of
the remittance due without proration for a fraction of
a month.  If a return is not filed, and the remittance
and interest due is not paid by the end of the extension
granted, then the interest shall become a part of the
tax for computation of penalties.
SECTION 12.03.110  PENALTIES AND INTEREST
(1) Interest shall be added to the overall tax amount due at
the same rate established under ORS 305.220 for each
month, or fraction of a month, from the time the return
to the tax administrator was originally requ ired to be
filed to the time of payment.
ARTICLE XII – Page 20

(2) If a transient lodging tax collector fails to file a
return or pay the tax as required, a penalty shall be
imposed in the same manner and amount provided under ORS
314.400.
(3) Every penalty imposed, and any interest th at accrues,
becomes a part of the financial obligation required to
be paid and remitted to the tax administrator.
(4) Taxes, interest, and penalties paid to the tax
administrator under this section shall be distributed to
the County’s Transient Lodging Tax Fund.
SECTION 12.03.120 DEFICIENCY DETERMINATION – FRAUD,
EVASION, LOCAL TAX TRUSTEE DELAY
(1) Deficiency Determination.  The tax administrator may
review tax returns and adjust the amount due based on
the information in the return, on information obtained
during a review or audit of records, or on the basis of
other evidence.  In the event of a deficiency, the tax
administrator shall provide notice of the deficiency to
the transient lodging tax collector, who shall remit
deficiencies within 10 business days of th e deficiency
notice.  Notice may be by personal delivery or certified
or registered mail.
a. In reviewing and adjusting tax returns, the tax
administrator shall offset any amount received in
excess of the remittances due against any shortages
in remittances.
b. Except in the case of fraud or intent to evade the
TLT, notice of deficiency determinations shall be
issued within three years of the period for which the
deficiency determination is made.
c. The time to remit deficient payment amounts under this
section shall be extended if the local tax trustee
timely requests a redetermination.
(2) Fraud – Refusal to Collect – Evasion.  If any transient
lodging tax collector fails to collect, report or remit
the tax as required, submits a fraudulent return, or
otherwise violates or attempts to violate this chapter,
the tax administrator shall estimat e the tax due, and
calculate the amount owing from the transient lodging
tax collector for tax remittance, interest and penalties
and provide notice to the transient lodging tax
collector of the assessment.  The determination and
notice shall be made and m ailed within three years of
ARTICLE XII – Page 21

the discovery by the tax administrator of the violation.
The determination is due and payable upon receipt of
notice and shall become final 10 business days after the
date notice was delivered if no petition for
redetermination is filed.
SECTION 12.03.130  REDETERMINATIONS
(1) Any person affected by a deficiency determination may
file a petition for redetermination with the tax
administrator within 10 business days of service of
notice of the tax deficiency.  A determination becomes
final if a petition for redetermination is not timely
filed.
(2) If a petition for redetermination is filed within the
allowable period, the tax administrator shall reconsider
the determination and grant an oral hearing if
requested.  The petitioner shall be allowed at least 20
business days to prepare for the hearing.
(3) After considering the petition and all available
information, the tax administrator shall issue a
redetermination decision and mail the decision to the
petitioner.  During the redetermination process, the tax
administrator may agree to a compromise of the amount
due if there is a good faith dispute over the amount
owing.
(4) The decision of the tax administrator on redetermination
becomes final and payment is due 10 business days after
the decision is  mailed unless the petitioner files an
appeal to the Board within that time. The appeal shall
be filed with the tax administrator.  The Board’s
decision shall be final when reduced to writing and
mailed to the petitioner and all amounts due must be
paid within 10 business days of mailing of the Board’s
decision.
SECTION 12.03.140  COLLECTIONS
(1) The County may bring legal action to collect on any
amounts owed to the County under this chapter within
three years after remittance is due to the County or
within th ree years after any determination becomes
final.
(2) The County is entitled to collect reasonable attorneys’
fees in any legal action brought to collect on amount
owed to the County under this chapter.
ARTICLE XII – Page 22

SECTION 12.03.150  LIENS
(1) The tax imposed by this Division together with the
interest and penalties, reasonable attorneys' fees,
filing fees, and advertising costs shall be and, until
paid, remain a lien from the date of its recording with
the county clerk, and superior to all subs equent
recorded liens on all tangible personal property used in
the business of a lodging tax collector within the
County, and may be foreclosed on and sold as may be
necessary to discharge said lien. Upon the recording of
the lien with the county clerk, notice of the lien shall
be issued by the tax administrator whenever the lodging
tax collector is in default in the payment of the tax,
interest, and/or penalty. A copy of the notice shall be
sent by certified mail to the lodging tax collector. The
personal property subject to a lien seized by any deputy
or employee of the tax administrator may be sold at
public auction after 10 days’ notice by one publication
in a newspaper of general circulation published in the
County. Any lien for taxes shown on the reco rds of the
proper County official shall, upon payment of all taxes,
penalties, and interest thereon, be released by the tax
administrator when the full amount determined to be due
has been paid to the County. Upon payment, the lodging
tax collector or person making such payment shall have
a receipt stating thereon that the full amount of taxes,
penalties, and interest have been paid and that the lien
is hereby released and the record of lien is satisfied.
(2) The lien or liens created by this section attach to all
tangible personal property referenced herein. The lien
or liens created shall also attach to the proceeds of
the sale of tangible personal property subject to the
lien or liens if: (A) Subsequent to the recording of the
lien or liens, tangible personal  property, or any part
thereof, is sold or delivered to an agent, broker,
cooperative agency, or other person to be sold or
otherwise disposed of; and (B) The purchaser, agent,
broker, cooperative agency, or other person has actual
or constructive notice o f the filing of the lien or
liens, and the proceeds that were received or will be
received from the sale or other disposal of the tangible
personal property have not been delivered to the owner
of the tangible personal property.
ARTICLE XII – Page 23

(3) Any person to whom a notice  of lien has been given as
provided by this section, who dismantles, removes from
the County, misdelivers, or conceals tangible personal
property or the proceeds of the sale of tangible personal
property upon which there is a valid lien without the
written consent of the lien claimant shall be liable to
the lien claimant for damages proximately resulting
therefrom.
SECTION 12.03.160  REFUNDS
(1) Refunds by County to Transient Lodging Tax Collector.
If the transient lodging tax collector remits more tax,
penalty or interest than is due, the transient lodging
tax collector may file a claim in writing stating the
facts relating to the claim, within three years from the
date of remittance.  If the claim is approved by the tax
administrator, the excess amount shall be either
refunded or credited on any amount due from the transient
lodging tax collector.
(2) Refunds by County to Occupant.  A transient lodging tax
collector may file a claim for refund by filing a claim
in writing within three years of payment providing th e
facts relating to the claim for refund.  If the tax
administrator determines that the tax was collected and
remitted to the County and the occupant was not required
to pay the tax or overpaid, the County shall issue a
refund to the occupant.
(3) Refunds by Transient Lodging Tax Collector to Occupant.
If an occupant has paid tax to a transient lodging tax
collector but stays a total of 30 or more consecutive
days in the same transient lodging facility, the
transient lodging tax collector shall refund to the
occupant any tax collected for any portion of the
continuous stay.  The transient lodging tax collector
shall account for the collection and refund to the tax
administrator.  If the transient lodging tax collector
has remitted the tax prior to the refund or  credit to
the occupant, the transient lodging tax collector shall
be entitled to a corresponding refund or offset if the
claim for refund is filed within three years from the
date of collection.
(4) Burden of Proof.  The person claiming the refund shall
have the burden of proving the facts that establish the
basis for the refund.
ARTICLE XII – Page 24

SECTION 12.03.170  ADMINISTRATION
(1) No less than seventy percent (70%) of all net tax revenue
received by the County shall be used to fund tourism
promotion and tourism -related faciliti es in the
Charleston Area.
(2) The balance of the net tax revenue received by the County
from lodging tax collectors shall be deposited into a
dedicated fund and may only be used for:
a. Public safety, including Coos County Code enforcement
costs and the costs of  mitigating Code Enforcement
violations;
b. Running a voluntary program for the removal and disposal
of unsightly or unsanitary solid waste accumulations,
derelict structures, abandoned mobile homes, and other
similar blight found within Coos County and outside the
boundaries of any incorporated city; and
c. Reimbursing the Coos County General fund for its costs
and expenses incurred in the collection, enforcement and
administration of the transient lodging tax.
(3) Records Required from Transient Lodging Tax Collec tor.
Every transient lodging tax collector shall keep records
of each transaction involving rent and/or collection of
TLT.  All records shall be retained for at least three
years and six months.
(4) Examination of Records – Investigations.  The tax
administrator or agent may examine all records of a
transient lodging tax collector relating to receipt of
rent and TLT and remittance of tax during normal business
hours and may obtain copies of the records to audit
returns.
(5) Authority of Tax Administrator.  The tax  administrator
shall have the power to enforce this chapter, conduct
audits, and to adopt rules, regulations and forms
consistent with this chapter. Rules and regulations of
general application shall be mailed to all registered
transient lodging providers. The tax administrator may
also issue written interpretations on request of a
transient lodging tax collector. As to the transient
lodging tax collector to whom the interpretation is
issued, the County will act consistently with the
interpretation until it  is withdrawn, and the County
shall provide 30 days’ written notice of withdrawal of
an interpretation.
ARTICLE XII – Page 25

(6) Confidential Character of Information Obtained –
Disclosure Unlawful.  The County shall maintain the
confidentiality of information provided by transien t
lodging tax collector.  Nothing in this subsection shall
be construed to prevent:
a. The disclosure to, or the examination of records and
equipment by, another County official, employee or
agent for collection of taxes for the purpose of
administering or en forcing any provisions of this
chapter or collecting County business license fees.
b. Disclosure of information to the transient lodging
tax collector and the transient lodging tax
collector’s agents.
c. The disclosure of the names and addresses of any
persons to whom certificates of authority have been
issued.
d. The disclosure of general statistics regarding taxes
collected or business done in the Charleston Area.
e. Disclosures required by ORS Chapter 192.
f. Disclosures required by ORS Chapter 297.
SECTION 12.03.180  APPELS TO THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

(1) Any determination by the tax administrator pursuant to
this Division, or any other applicable law, may be
appealed to the Board of Commissioners  within twenty
(20) days of serving or mailing of the tax notice or a
decision given by the tax administrator. All appeals
must be in writing and clearly identify the
determination of the tax administrator being appealed.
The Board of Commissioners shall fix a time and place
for hearing such appeal and shall give the appellant not
less than ten (10) days written notice of the time and
place of hearing.
(2) The Board may by order create a transient lodging tax
review committee composed of at least three (3) members.
This committee shall have the power to hear appeals as
set forth in section (1) above.
SECTION 12.03.190  EXEMPTIONS
The transient lodging tax imposed under Section 12.03.070 above
shall not apply to:
(1) A dwelling unit in a hospital, health care facility,
long-term care facility or any other residential
ARTICLE XII – Page 26

facility that is licensed, registered or certified by
the Oregon Department of Human Services or the Oregon
Health Authority;
(2) A dwelling unit in a facility providing treatment for
drug or alcohol abuse or providing mental health
treatment;
(3) A dwelling unit, the consideratio n for which is funded
through a contract with a government agency and the
purpose of which is to provide emergency or temporary
shelter;
(4) A dwelling unit at a nonprofit youth or church camp,
nonprofit conference center, or other nonprofit
facility. A non-profit lodging facility must be owned by
an Internal Revenue Code 501(c) exempt organization and
not be operated for profit; or
(5) A dwelling unit that is leased or otherwise occupied by
the same person for a consecutive period of 30 days or
more during a year. The requirements of this subsection
are satisfied even if the physical dwelling unit changes
during the consecutive period, if;
a. All dwelling units occupied are within the same
facility; and
b. The person paying consideration for the lodging is
the same person throughout the consecutive period.
SECTION 12.03.200  VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES
It is unlawful for any lodging tax collector or other person so
required, to fail or refuse to register, furnish any required
return or other data required by the Tax Administrat or, or to
render a false or fraudulent return. No person required to make,
render, sign, or verify any report shall make any false or
fraudulent report, with intent to defeat or evade the determination
of any amount due under this Division. Violation of an y of the
provisions of this Division shall constitute a Class A Violation,
subject to a maximum penalty of two thousand dollars ($2,000) for
each day a violation occurs.