III-1

CHAPTER III

ESTUARY ZONES

Coos Bay Estuary Management Plan & Coquille River Estuary Management Plan

ZONING TABLE
Category    Article/Section      Page
Estuary Zoning

General Information concerning mapping and uses
   3.1 III-1
Coos Bay Estuary Management Plan (CBEMP)
 CBEMP Zoning Districts/Uses and
Activities/Land Development Standards
3.2 III-6

Coquille River Estuary Management Plan (CREMP)
 CREMP Zoning Districts/Uses and
Activities/Land Development Standards
3.3 III-444
 CREMP Policies   III-512

ARTICLE 3.1 GENERAL INFORMATION

SECTION 3.1.100 ZONING DISTRICT MAPS:

The location and boundaries of the zoning districts are shown on the Coos County Zoning Map,
Coquille River Estuary Zoning Map and the Coos Bay Estuary Zoning Map. (Note: management
units in the Coos Bay Estuary Management Plan are the same as zoning districts.) These zoning
maps and their explanatory information are hereby adopted as part of this Ordinance. The zoning
map may consist of several sheets or pages, which shall be listed on a cover page together with the
date and name of each page. The zoning map shall be certified by the Board of Commissioners as
being the official zoning map through adopted order or ordinance. All official records shall be kept
by the Coos County Planning Department. Any changes to the zone maps by interpretation or
rezone shall be filed with the County Clerk’s office through an ordinance or order. A copy of the
segment of the map that was interpreted or rezoned will be attached to the order or ordinance.
Digitized maps are hereby adopted as part of the Coos County Comprehensive Plan and Coos
County Zoning and Land Development Ordinance as the official maps. If there are any questions
about a mapping error staff shall provide a copy of the original Mylar map for comparison. If the
digital copy is found to be in error Planning Staff shall correct the error immediately.

SECTION 3.1.150 AMENDMENT OF ZONING DISTRICT MAP:

Whenever it is necessary to amend the zoning map to conform with an approved rezoning or with
an amendment to the text of this Ordinance or as final land use actions of incorporated cities as
may be required, the Planning Staff shall make the change and note it in the meta data. When
changes are made to the digitized maps they shall be exported into a shape file with the date and
title and stored in an archived file. If changes are needed to align with the Assessor’s tax lot data
that may be done without notice.
III-2

SECTION 3.1.200 INTERPRETATION OF ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:

Due to the transposition of boundary lines from the Comprehensive Plan Maps (scale: 2” = 1 mile)
to the Official Zoning Maps (scale: 1”=800’), zoning district boundaries were drawn to the nearest
10 acres. Whenever an uncertainty exists as to the boundary of a zone as shown on the official
zoning map, the following rules of interpretation shall apply:

1. Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of streets, highways, or
alleys shall be construed to follow such centerlines;

2. Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted or surveyed lines shall be
construed to follow such plat or survey lines;

3. Boundaries indicated as approximately following city limits shall be construed to follow
such city limits;

4. Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines or public utility easements shall be
construed to follow such lines;

5. Boundaries indicated as following the centerlines of streams, rivers, canals, or other bodies
of water shall be construed to follow those centerlines;

6. Boundaries indicated as approximately following the shorelines of water bodies shall be
construed to follow the mean high water line (MHWL) or the line of non-aquatic
vegetation, whichever is higher;

7. Boundaries indicated as approximately following ridge tops and other topographical
features shall be construed to follow those features;

8. Boundaries indicated as approximately parallel to, or as extensions of features indicated in
subsections 1 through 7, shall be so construed;

9. Where a public street or alley is officially vacated, the zone requirements applicable to the
property in which the vacated area becomes a part shall apply.

10. Boundaries not intended to follow the above-listed features shall indicate where possible
distances to reference points and other lines so they can be located on the ground;

11. Where physical features existing on the ground are at variance with those shown on the
official zoning map, or in other circumstances not covered by subsections 1 through 10
above, the Planning Director shall interpret the zone boundaries, and if need be, may refer
the matter to the Hearings Body for its interpretation pursuant to Section 1.1.700 of this
Ordinance.

SECTION 3.1.250 COASTAL SHORELANDS BOUNDARY:

The Coastal Shoreland Boundary as it applies to the Coos Bay Estuary Management Plan and the
Coquille River Estuary Management Plan is identified as that outer extent of the estuary zoning
boundary.
III-3

SECTION 3.1.350 ERRORS IN ZONING DISTRICT MAPS:

1. The Planning Director shall periodically compare zone maps on file with the official zoning
map and the action taken by the Board of Commissioners or Hearings Body to assure the
maps conform therewith.

2. When errors in transcription, interpretation, or clerical mistakes are found, the Planning
Director shall have the authority to correct those errors on the official map using the same
process as Section 3.1.150.

SECTION 3.1.400 PROHIBITED USES:

Unless an exception is specifically listed in the Ordinance, any use not listed or specifically
identified as not permitted are prohibited.  However, it is recognized that in the development of a
Comprehensive Zoning and Land Development Ordinance, not all uses of land and water can be
listed, nor can all future uses be anticipated. A “use” may have been inadvertently omitted from
the list of those specified as permitted or conditional in each of the various districts designated.
Ambiguity may arise concerning the appropriate classification of a particular use within the
meaning and intent of this Ordinance.

1. The classification of a new permitted or conditional use may be approved by the Planning
Director, or may be referred to the Board of Commissioners for consideration;

2. To classify and add a new permitted or conditional use to the uses already listed within a
zoning district without formal amendment to the text of this Ordinance, the Planning
Director must find that the proposed use to be added is similar and not more obnoxious or
detrimental to the public health, safety, and welfare as other uses listed in the respective
zoning district.

3. Notice of any decision to classify a new use shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation at least ten (10) days prior to the effective date of the decision, and shall be
subject to appeal pursuant to Article 5.8. Decisions to classify a new use may be appealed
following the procedures of Article 5.8.

a. Any decision to classify a use pursuant to this section shall be entered in a registry
available to the public setting forth:

i. The street address or other easily understood geographic reference to the
subject property;
ii. The date of the decision; and
iii. A description of the decision made.

4. New classified uses shall be subject to all other requirements of this Ordinance.

5. Any new use classified for an Exclusive Farm Use or Forest zone must comply with ORS
215 and requirements of applicable case law and administrative rules. [OR-92-07-012PL

SECTION 3.1.450 SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS THAT APPLY TO ALL ZONING
LISTED IN ARTICLE 3.
III-4

1. Special Allowance for Accessory Housing within the Coquille River and Coos Bay Estuary
Shoreland Boundaries. The dwelling is necessary for a watchman or caretaker that is
needed to reside on-premise. That the primary purpose of the dwelling is not solely to
provide rental housing. Dwellings may be allowed as an accessory use to any of the
following legally established uses:
a. Agriculture, as otherwise consistent with CREMP Policy #42  and CBEMP Policy
#28;
b. Airports;
c. Aquaculture;
d. Commercial;
e. Docks and moorage/marinas;
f. Industrial and port facilities;
g. Log storage and sorting yard;
h. Mining and mineral extraction;
i. Recreational uses;
j. Solid waste disposal;
k. Timber farming/harvesting, as otherwise consistent with CREMP Policy #42 and
CBEMP Policy #28;
l. Utilities.

2. Accessory Structures are customarily accessory to a lawfully established principle use shall
be allowed as set forth below:
a. An accessory structure may be located on the same lot, parcel or tract under the
same ownership as the lot, parcel or tract that contains the principle use.
b. Any attached or detached accessory structure shall maintain the same setbacks
established by the zoning district for the principle use.[OR 91-05-006PL 7/10/91]

3. Residential Care Home/Facility.  Residential Care Home/Facility shall be allowed in any
dwelling authorized by this Ordinance.

4. Special Temporary Uses.  The special temporary uses and their accessory structures and
uses may be temporarily permitted by the Planning Director as set forth in the Zoning
Districts. The Planning Director’s decision may be reviewed by the Hearing’s Body.

5. Accessory Uses.  Uses customarily accessory to the lawfully established principal use shall
be allowed in all cases unless specifically prohibited or restricted:

a. An accessory use may be located on the same lot, parcel or tract or on a contiguous
lot, parcel or tract under the same ownership as the lot, parcel or tract that contains
the principal use;
b. The use complies with the definition of “Accessory Structure or Use” pursuant to
this Ordinance;
c. The noncontiguous lot, parcel or tract is in the “same ownership” as the lot, parcel
or tract on which the principal use is located;
d. The accessory use shall only be allowed subject to an administrative conditional use
and findings that establish that the use is compatible with surrounding uses or may
be made compatible through the imposition of conditions.[OR 91-05-006PL
7/10/91]

III-5
ARTICLE 3.2  COOS BAY ESTUARY MANAGEMENT PLAN (CBEMP) ZONING
DISTRICTS/USES AND ACTIVITIES/LAND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.

SECTION 3.2.100. PURPOSE.

The purpose of this Article is to provide requirements pertaining to individual zoning districts in
accordance with the Coos Bay Estuary Management Plan.

Such requirements are intended to achieve the following objectives:

  1. To encourage the most appropriate use of land and natural resources.
  2. To facilitate the adequate and efficient provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools,
parks, and other public requirements.
  3. To secure safety from flood or other natural hazard.

The land development standards of Table 3.2 shall govern all development within the Coos Bay
Estuary Shoreland Districts.

TABLE 3.2
Brackets around numbers see "Footnotes"

LAND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

 MINIMUM LOT SIZE (10)
   RURAL UGB'S
DISTRICT
DESIGNATION
EFU
(1)
FOREST
LAND (2)
RES COM/
IND
OTHER RES COM/
IND
OTHER

NS (3) (3) (3) N/A (3) N/A N/A N/A

CS (3) (3) (3) N/A (3) (3) N/A (3)

RS (3) (3) (3) (3) (3) N/A N/A (3)

D (3) (3) (4) -- -- N/A N/A N/A

WD (3) (3) (4) -- -- N/A N/A N/A

UD (3) (3) N/A N/A N/A (3) (3) (3)

UW (3) (3) N/A N/A N/A (4) -- --

NWD (3) (3) N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A

UDS (3) (3) N/A N/A N/A (4) -- --
III-6

TABLE 3.2
Brackets around numbers see “Footnotes”

LAND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

DISTRICT
DESIGNATION
MINIMUM LOT WIDTH & DEPTH

MIN. ST. FRONTAGE
RURAL UGB’S
RURAL

UGB’S WIDTH DEPTH WIDTH DEPTH

NS 20’ -- N/A N/A 20’ N/A

CS 20’ -- 50’ 50’ 20’ 50’

RS 20’ -- 50’ 50’ 20’ 50’

D 20’ -- 50’ N/A 20’ N/A

WD 20’ -- N/A N/A 20’ N/A

UD N/A N/A N/A 50’ N/A 50’

UW N/A N/A 50’ 50’ N/A 50’

NWD 20’ -- N/A N/A N/A 50’

UDS N/A N/A 50’ 50’ N/A 50’

III-7
Table 3.2
Brackets around numbers see "Footnotes"

LAND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
 MINIMUM SETBACKS (9)
 RURAL UGB'S
DISTRICT
DESIGNATION
FRONT REAR SIDE FRONT REAR SIDE

NS (5) (5) (5) N/A N/A N/A

CS (5) (5) (5) 20' 5' (7)

RS (5) (5) (5) 20' 20' (7)

D (5) (5) (5) N/A N/A N/A

WD (5) (5) (5) N/A N/A N/A

UD N/A N/A N/A 20' 5' (7)

UW N/A N/A N/A 5' 5' 5'

NWD N/A N/A N/A N/A 5' 5'

UDS N/A N/A N/A 5' 5' (5)

III-8

TABLE 3.2
Brackets around numbers see "Footnotes"

LAND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
DISTRICT
DESIGNATION

MAXIMUM BUILDING
HEIGHT
OFFSTREET
PARKING
Road Standards
RURAL UGB’S RURAL UGB’S RURAL UGB’S

NS -- N/A (6) N/A (11) (11)

CS -- 35’ (6) (8) (11) (11)

RS -- 35’ (6) (8) (11) (11)

D -- N/A (6) N/A (11) (11)

WD -- N/A (6) N/A (11) (11)

UD N/A -- N/A (8) (11) (11)

UW N/A -- N/A (8) (11) (11)

NWD -- N/A N/A (8) (11) (11)

UDS N/A -- N/A (8) (11) (11)

TABLE 3.2 FOOTNOTES

FOOTNOTES:

(1) Exclusive Farm Use, per Minimum Lot Size Unincorporated Areas (Map 39)
(2) Forest Lands, per  Minimum Lot Size Unincorporated Areas (Map 39)
(3) See Special  Minimum Lot Size Unincorporated Areas (Map 39)to determine minimum lot size
(4) Dwellings are allowed as accessory uses only; no minimum lot size required
(5) 35 feet from the centerline of an adjacent right-of-way; or 5 feet from an adjacent right of-way
boundary (whichever is greater) if no adjacent right-of-way.
(6) See Chapter VII for rural off-street parking requirements
(7) 5 feet; but 10 feet for corner lots
(8) See Chapter VII for off-street parking requirements within UGB’s
(9) Setback requirements are also subject to the vision clearance requirements set forth in Chapter VII.
(10) None required for dredged material disposal, mitigation or utilities
(11)  See Chapter VII for road standards and improvements.

NOTE:  N/A = means “not applicable”; the standard is not applicable because the respective
zoning designation does not apply within either the respective rural or UGB area.
III-9

SECTION 3.2.150. HOW TO USE THIS ARTICLE.

This Plan contains specific language that regulates future natural, conservation, and development uses and
activities that are, or may be, allowed at various Coos Bay aquatic and shoreland areas. As previously
stated, the Plan's main purpose is to clearly stipulate where, and under what circumstances, development
may occur -- thereby creating both predictability and certainty that required development permits will be
issued if proposed actions are consistent with the provisions of this Plan.

Follow the steps below to determine whether or not a proposed use or activity is, or may be allowed at any
specific site:

 1. Locate the subject site on the Plan Map, which is attached.

2. Note on the Plan Map whether the subject property is contained within an aquatic
management unit, a shoreland unit, or both.  Note the numbers and abbreviated unit
designations (i.e., "UD", "UW", "CA", etc.) for applicable management units.

3. Turn to the pages in the Plan document which contain specific plan provisions for each of
the aquatic and shoreland management units. Find the pages that correspond to the map
designations for the subject site.

4. For each applicable aquatic and/or shoreland management unit:

a. Review the unit's overall designation (i.e., Conservation Aquatic [CA], Urban
Development [UD], etc.) to determine the general level of development allowed in
the unit.  Section 3.5 explains the meaning of these aquatic and shoreland
designations.

b. Review the unit's management objective. This narrative provides general policy
guidance regarding natural, conservation, and development uses and activities that
are, or may be, allowed in the unit. All uses and activities allowed in the unit are
consistent with the unit's management objective.

c. Review the unit's Uses and Activities Matrix to determine whether or not a
proposed use or activity is allowable, subject to prescribed development standards
(when applicable), or whether the proposed use or activity may be conditionally
allowed subject to discretionary approval by local government, and possibly
subject to special development conditions as denoted by an "*" symbol described
below.

d. Review the designations which accompany each "use" and "activity" listed in the
matrix to determine what is allowed, what is not allowed, and what "Special
Conditions" apply.

"A" means "Allowed".  The proposed use or activity will be allowed outright
following a ministerial review by Planning Staff.

"*" means "Special Conditions" apply to the proposed use or activity, which
may be allowed; in some cases, as discretionary decision by local
government is required, as stated in the special condition narrative.

"N" means "Not Allowed".  The proposed use or activity is prohibited in the
unit.
III-10

"N/A" means "Not Applicable".  The use or activity is not realistic considering the
physical character of the unit and therefore does not apply.

In addition, "General Conditions" provide a convenient cross-reference to applicable Policies which may
further limit or condition allowed uses and activities in shoreland areas.

Review the definitions, bay-wide policies, and standards set forth in Volume II, Part 1, Section 3 of this
Plan, as the site-specific use and activity policies are subordinate with these.

SECTION 3.2.175. Site-Specific Zoning Districts.

This Ordinance shall divide the lands affected by the Coos Bay Estuary Management Plan into
specific zoning districts identified as management units as identified in Volume III, Part I of the
Coos Bay Estuary Management Plan (Portion of the Coos County Comprehensive Plan) . The
following zoning districts delineate the appropriate requirements which shall apply to all lands
within the individual districts.

A detailed “Uses and Activities” table follows the “Management Objectives” statement presented
for each respective aquatic and shoreland unit. The tables describe specific uses and activities
deemed appropriate and inappropriate for each district. The Use and Activity tables for each
district are subordinate to the “Management Objective” for the respective districts in that allowed
uses and activities must be consistent with the respective districts’ “Management Objective”
statements.

SECTION 3.2.180. RIPARIAN PROTECTION STANDARDS IN THE COOS BAY
ESTUARY MANAGEMENT PLAN.

The following standards shall govern riparian corridors within the Coos Bay Estuary Management
Plan:

1. Riparian vegetation within 50 feet of a estuarine wetland, stream, lake or river, as
identified on the Coastal Shoreland and Fish and Wildlife habitat inventory maps, shall
be maintained except that:

a) Trees certified as posing an erosion or safety hazard. Property owner is
responsible for ensuring compliance with all local, state and federal agencies for
the removal of the tree.
b) Riparian vegetation may be removed to provide direct access for a water-
dependent use; or
c) Riparian vegetation may be removed in order to allow establishment of
authorized structural shoreline stabilization measures; or
d) Riparian vegetation may be removed to facilitate stream or streambank
clearance projects under a port district, ODFW, BLM, Soil & Water
Conservation District, USFS stream enhancement plan; or
e) Riparian vegetation may be removed in order to site or properly maintain public
utilities and road right-of-ways, provided that the vegetation to be removed is
the minimum necessary to accomplish the purpose; or
f) Riparian vegetation may be removed in conjunction with existing agricultural
operations (e.g., to site or maintain irrigation pumps, to limit encroaching brush,
to allow harvesting farm crops customarily grown within riparian corridors,
III-11
etc.) provided that such vegetation removal does not encroach further into the
vegetation buffer except as needed to provide an access to the water for the
minimum amount necessary to site or maintain irrigation pumps.

2. The 50’ riparian vegetation setback shall not apply in any instance where an existing
structure was lawfully established and an addition or alteration to said structure is to be
sited not closer to the estuarine wetland, stream, lake, or river than the existing structure
and said addition or alteration represents not more than 100% of the size of the existing
structure’s “footprint”.(ORD 92-05-009PL)

3. The 50’ measurement shall be taken from the ordinary high water mark using a right
angle from the ordinary high water mark.

III-12

SEE CBEMP VOLUME I PART I FOR ZONING AND POLICIES

III-13

ARTICLE 3.3 – COQUILLE RIVER ESTUARY MANAGEMENT PLAN (CREMP)
ZONING DISTRICTS/USES AND ACTIVITIES/LAND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

This article lists all shoreland segments first and then the aquatic units. The policies that are
referenced in the uses are found at the end of this chapter.

CREMP SHORELAND SEGMENTS – The management units are divided up by the type and then
the segment number. All policies that are referenced are found at the end of this Article.  Under
each type of management unit, the segments each have a purpose statement. Note: Limiting
Policies do not apply to all uses or all areas within units, as specifically described in each policy.
Policy #3 applies to all Coquille River Estuary Management Plan segments.

COQUILLE RIVER ESTUARY MANAGEMENT - NATURAL RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT SEGMENTS (CREMP-NR)

• Shoreland Segment 11 (11-NR) this segment shall be managed to protect the natural
resources of this area (including a large fresh-water marsh), and for undeveloped outdoor
recreation activities in conjunction with the Bullards Beach State Park. A designated
dredged material site is located at the south end of this segment, and shall be protected
from preemptory uses.

• Shoreland Segment 29 (29-NR) shall be managed for the protection of its natural resource
values as a mitigation site which shall be protected from preemptory uses.

SECTION 3.3.100 DEVELOPMENT AND USE PERMITTED:

The following uses and activities are permitted outright in the Natural Resource Management
Segment.

1. Timber farming/harvesting

2. Contaminated soil/land farming

3. Modification of historic structure

4. Home occupation is permitted subject to the provisions of CREMP Policy #5d.

5. Cottage industry is permitted subject to the provisions of CREMP Policy #5d.

6. Non-structural shoreland stabilization

SECTION 3.3.110 ADMINISTRATIVE CONDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND USE:
The following uses and activities are permitted under an administrative conditional use permit
Natural Resource Management.

1. Farm use pursuant to ORS 215.203 for either profit or not for profit:

III-14
a. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 11 this use may be permitted subject to provisions
of CREMP Policies #14, #17, #18 and #27.
b. In CREMP Shoreland Unit 29 this use may be permitted subject to provisions of
CREMP Policies #14a and # 22.

2. Farm Structures:

a. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 11 this use may be permitted subject to provisions
of CREMP Policies #14, #17, #18 and #27.
b. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 29 this use may be permitted subject to provisions
of CREMP Policies #14a and #22.

3. Propagation, management and harvesting of a forest product:

a. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 11 this use may be permitted subject to provisions
of CREMP Policies #14, #17, #18 and #27.
b. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 29 this use may be permitted subject to provisions
of CREMP Policies #14a and #22.

4. Low Intensity Recreation:

a. Low-intensity recreation shall be limited to water-dependent, and only permitted in
CREMP Shoreland Segment 11. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 11 this use may be
permitted subject to provisions of CREMP Policies #14, #17, #18 and
   # 27.
b. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 29 this use may be permitted subject to provisions
of CREMP Policies #14a and #22.

5. Modification of historic structures may be permitted upon the establishment of a finding
that the modification is necessary to preserve, protect or enhance the original historical
character of the structure, based upon submission of a modification proposal and plot and
architectural plans. The following also applies:

a. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 11 the use may be permitted subject to provisions of
CREMP Policies #14, #17, #18 and #27.
b. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 29 the use may be permitted subject to provisions of
CREMP Policies #14a and #22.

6. Land divisions (Partition/Subdivision):

a. This use may be permitted subject to the provisions of CREMP Policies:

i. CREMP Shoreland Segment 11 is subject to Policies #14, #15 #17, #19, #35
and #38.
ii. CREMP Shoreland Segment 29 is subject to Policies #14, #15 and #22.

b. Each parcel or lot shall meet the minimum lot/parcel size and development standards
unless it is a residual of resource (Farm or Forest) land division.
c. Must comply with the requirements of Chapter VI for land divisions.
d. Notice will be sent as required by Article 5.0.
III-15
e. Final Plat is a ministerial review.

7. Service lines:

a. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 11 this use may be permitted subject to provisions
of CREMP Policies #14, #17, #18 and #27.
b. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 29 this use may be permitted subject to provisions
of CREMP Policies #14a and #22.

8. Dikes:

a. Dredge material disposal

i. In designated site only.
ii. DMD to include stabilization measure to control run-off and prevent
sloughing.
iii. This use may be permitted subject to the provisions of CREMP Policy #20.
iv. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 11 this use may be permitted subject to
provisions of CREMP Policies #14, #17, #18 and #27.
v. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 29 this use may be permitted subject to
provisions of CREMP Policies #14a and #22.

b. Fill

i. In designated site only.
ii. DMD to include stabilization measure to control run-off and prevent
sloughing.
iii. This use may be permitted subject to the provisions of CREMP Policy #20.
iv. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 11 this use may be permitted subject to
provisions of CREMP Policies #14, #17, #18 and #27 may apply.
v. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 29 this use may be permitted subject to
provisions of CREMP Policies #14a and #22.

c. Mitigation

i. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 11 this use may be permitted subject to
provisions of CREMP Policies #14, #17, #18 and #27 may apply.
ii. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 29 this use may be permitted subject to
provisions of CREMP Policies #14a and #22.

9. Structural Shoreland Stabilization. This use shall not be permitted in CREMP Shoreland
Segment 29.

a. This use may be permitted subject to the provisions of CREMP Policy #9.
b. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 11 this use may be permitted subject to provisions
of CREMP Policies #14, #17, #18 and #27.

10. Commercial kennel:

III-16
a. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 11 this use may be permitted subject to provisions
of CREMP Policies #14, #17, #18 and #27.
b. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 29 this use may be permitted subject to provisions
of CREMP Policies #14a and #22.

SECTION 3.3.130 DEVELOPMENT AND USE STANDARDS.

1. Minimum Lot size:

a. Refer to the lot size found on the Special Consideration Map for the CREMP.
b. The dimension requirements must be met.

2. Minimum lot width is 20 feet.

3. Access and parking is regulated in Chapter VII.

4. Riparian vegetation within 50 feet of a estuarine wetland , stream, lake or river, as
identified on the Coastal Shoreland and Fish and Wildlife habitat inventory maps, shall be
maintained except that:

a. Trees certified as posing an erosion or safety hazard. Property owner is responsible
for ensuring compliance with all local, state and federal agencies for the removal of
the tree.
b. Riparian vegetation may be removed to provide direct access for a water-dependent
use.
c. Riparian vegetation may be removed in order to allow establishment of authorized
structural shoreline stabilization measures.
d. Riparian vegetation may be removed to facilitate stream or streambank clearance
projects under a port district, ODFW, BLM, Soil & Water Conservation District, or
USFS stream enhancement plan.
e. Riparian vegetation may be removed in order to site or properly maintain public
utilities and road right-of-ways. or
f. Riparian vegetation may be removed in conjunction with existing agricultural
operations (e.g., to site or maintain irrigation pumps, to limit encroaching brush, to
allow harvesting farm crops customarily grown within riparian corridors, etc.)
provided that such vegetation removal does not encroach further into the vegetation
buffer except as needed to provide an access to the water to site or maintain
irrigation pumps.
g. Riparian removal within the Coastal Shoreland Boundary will require a conditional
use. See Special Development Considerations Coastal Shoreland Boundary.
h. The 50 foot riparian vegetation setback shall not apply in any instance where an
existing structure was lawfully established and an addition or alteration to said
structure is to be sited not closer to the estuarine wetland, stream, lake, or river than
the existing structure and said addition or alteration represents not more than 100%
of the size of the existing structure’s “footprint”.
i. The 50’ measurement shall be taken from the closest point of the ordinary high
water mark to the structure using a right angle from the ordinary high water mark.

COQUILLE RIVER ESTUARY MANAGEMENT PLAN - RECREATION (CREMP-REC)
SHORELAND SEGMENTS
III-17

• Shoreland Segment 12 (12- REC) This segment is part of Bullards Beach State Park and
managed for outdoor recreation activities and facilities, as consistent with the plan of the
State Parks Division and the recreational needs of the State and its visitors.

• Shoreland Segments 24 (24-REC), 39 (39-REC) and 58 (58-REC) shall be managed for
recreational uses connected with the Rocky Point Boat Ramp, and other uses as permitted
by the uses/activities matrix.

SECTION 3.3.200 DEVELOPMENT AND USE PERMITTED:

The following uses and activities are permitted outright in the in the CREMP-REC.

1. Farm use pursuant to ORS 215.203 for either profit or not for profit. This use is subject to
the provisions of CREMP Policy #18.

2. Timber farming/harvesting is subject to the provisions of CREMP Policy #18.

3. Marinas.

4. Temporary residence such as a mobile home, travel trailer or recreational vehicle used as a
dwelling temporarily during construction of a permitted structure. Duration not to exceed
one (1) year, subject to renewal. This use is subject to the provisions of CREMP Policy
#18.

5.  Non-structural Shoreland stabilization.

SECTION 3.3.210 ADMINISTRATIVE CONDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND USE:

The following uses and activities are permitted under an administrative conditional use permit
CREMP-REC.

1. Farm buildings

a. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 12 this may be permitted subject to Policies #14,
#18 and #27.
b. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 24 may be permitted subject to Policies #14 and
#17.
c. In CREMP Shoreland Segments 39 and 58 may be permitted subject to Policies
#14, #23 and #27.

2. Propagation, management and harvesting of a forest product. This use is not permitted in
CREMP Shoreland Segment 24. Forest management practices and policies for regulation of
forest lands to be consistent with LCDC Goal #17 and the Oregon Forest Practices Act.

a. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 12 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policies #14, #18, #21 and #27.
b. In CREMP Shoreland Segments 39 and 58 may be permitted subject to Policies
#14, #21, #23 and #27.

III-18
3. Recreation:

a. High Intensity

i. Non-water-dependent/related recreation is prohibited in CREMP Shoreland
Segment 24. If the use is water dependent/water related then it may be
permitted subject to the provisions of CREMP Policies #14 and #27.
ii. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 12 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policies #14, #18 and #27.
iii. In CREMP Shoreland Segments 39 and 58 this use may be permitted subject
to Policies #14, #23 and #27.

b. Low Intensity

i. Non-water-dependent/related recreation is prohibited in CREMP Shoreland
Segment 24. If the use is water dependent/water related then it may be
permitted subject to the provisions of CREMP Policies #14 and #27.
ii. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 12 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policies #14, #18 and #27.
iii. In CREMP Shoreland Segments 39 and 58 may be permitted subject to
Policies #14, #23 and #27.

4. Marina shoreside facility:

a. This use is not permitted in CREMP Shoreland Segment 24.
b. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 12 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policies #14, #18 and #27.
c. In CREMP Shoreland Segments 39 and 58 may be permitted subject to Policies
#14, #23 and #27.

5. Modification of historic structure:

a. This may be permitted upon the establishment of a finding that the modification is
necessary to preserve, protect or enhance the original historical character of the structure,
based upon submission of a modification proposal and site and architectural plans.
b. Meet all development standards in Section 3.3.230.

6. Residential watchman/caretaker dwelling shall be permitted in CREMP Shoreland
Segments 12 and 39 subject to the following:

a. This use permitted only if in conjunction with a permitted or conditionally
permitted use.
b. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 12 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policies #14, #18, #21 and #27.
c. In CREMP Shoreland Segments 39 may be permitted subject to Policies #14, #23
and #27.

7. Land divisions (Partition/Subdivision) :

a. This use may be permitted subject to the provisions of CREMP Policies:
III-19

i. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 12 this may be permitted subject to Policies
#14, #18 and #27.
ii. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 24 may be permitted subject to Policies #14
and #17.
iii. In CREMP Shoreland Segments 39 and 58 may be permitted subject to Policies
#14, #23 and #27

b. Each parcel or lot shall meet the minimum lot/parcel size and development standards
unless it is a residual of resource (Farm or Forest) land division.
c. Must comply with the requirements of Chapter VI for land divisions.
d. Notice will be sent as required by Article 5.0.
e. Final Plat is a ministerial review.

8. Dikes including new construction and maintenance/repair; however, this use shall not be
permitted in CREMP Shoreland Segments 12, 24, and 39. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 58
may be permitted subject to Policies #14, #23 and #27.

9. Drainage and tide gating. This use shall not be permitted in CREMP Shoreland Segments 12, 24
and 39. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 58 may be permitted subject to Policies #14, #23 and
#27.

10. Dredge material disposal (DMS) allowed only for maintenance dredging of boat ramps.
DMD to include stabilization measure to control run-off and prevent sloughing.

a. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 12 this may be permitted subject to Policies #14,
#18, #20 and #27.
b. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 24 may be permitted subject to Policies #14, #20
and #17.
c. In CREMP Shoreland Segments 39 and 58 may be permitted subject to Policies #14, #20,
#23 and #27.

11. Fill shall not be permitted in CREMP Shoreland Segments 12 or 58.

a. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 24 may be permitted subject to Policies #14 and
#17.
b. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 39 may be permitted subject to Policies #14, #23 and #27.

12. Mitigation shall not be permitted in CREMP Shoreland Segment 24.

a. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 12 this may be permitted subject to Policies #14,
#18 and #27.
b. In CREMP Shoreland Segments 39 and 58 may be permitted subject to Policies #14, #23
and #27.

13. Structural Shoreland Stabilization:

a. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 12 this may be permitted subject to Policies #9, #14,
#18 and #27.
III-20
b. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 24 may be permitted subject to Policies #9, #14 and
#17.
c. In CREMP Shoreland Segments 39 and 58 may be permitted subject to Policies #9, #14,
#23 and #27.

14. Commercial Kennel:

a. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 12 this may be permitted subject to Policies #14,
#18 and #27.
b. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 24 may be permitted subject to Policies #14 and
#17.
c. In CREMP Shoreland Segments 39 and 58 may be permitted subject to Policies #14, #23
and #27.

SECTION 3.3.230 DEVELOPMENT AND USE STANDARDS.

1. Minimum Lot size:

a. Refer to the lot size found on the Special Consideration Map for the CREMP.
b. The dimension requirements must be meet.

2. Dwelling Density shall be one dwelling unit on each legally established parcel or lot.
Unless otherwise allowed through grandfathering or when the zoning districts permits.

3. Minimum lot width is 20 feet.

4. Setback: All building or structures with the exception of fences shall be setback a minimum
of thirty-five (35) feet from any road right-of-way centerline, or five (5) feet from any
right-of-way line, whichever is greater.

5. Access and parking is regulated in chapter VII.

6. Riparian vegetation within 50 feet of a estuarine wetland , stream, lake or river, as
identified on the Coastal Shoreland and Fish and Wildlife habitat inventory maps, shall be
maintained except that:

a. Trees certified as posing an erosion or safety hazard. property owner is responsible
for ensuring compliance with all local, state and federal agencies for the removal of
the tree.
a. Riparian vegetation may be removed to provide direct access for a water-dependent
use.
b. Riparian vegetation may be removed in order to allow establishment of authorized
structural shoreline stabilization measures.
c. Riparian vegetation may be removed to facilitate stream or streambank clearance
projects under a port district, ODFW, BLM, Soil & Water Conservation District, or
USFS stream enhancement plan.
d. Riparian vegetation may be removed in order to site or properly maintain public
utilities and road right-of-ways. or
e. Riparian vegetation may be removed in conjunction with existing agricultural
operations (e.g., to site or maintain irrigation pumps, to limit encroaching brush, to
III-21
allow harvesting farm crops customarily grown within riparian corridors, etc.)
provided that such vegetation removal does not encroach further into the vegetation
buffer except as needed to provide an access to the water to site or maintain
irrigation pumps.
f. Riparian removal within the Coastal Shoreland Boundary will require a conditional
use. See Special Development Considerations Coastal Shoreland Boundary.
g. The 50 foot riparian vegetation setback shall not apply in any instance where an
existing structure was lawfully established and an addition or alteration to said
structure is to be sited not closer to the estuarine wetland, stream, lake, or river than
the existing structure and said addition or alteration represents not more than 100%
of the size of the existing structure’s “footprint”.
h. The 50’ measurement shall be taken from the ordinary high water mark using a
right angle from the ordinary high water mark.

COQUILLE RIVER ESTUARY MANAGEMENT PLAN - RURAL SHORELAND
SEGMENTS (CREMP-RS)

The Rural Shoreland Segments consist of the following:

 Coquille River Estuary Management Plan – Rural Residential-5 (CREMP-RR-5)
 Coquille River Estuary Management Plan – Rural Residential-2 (CREMP-RR-2)
 Coquille River Estuary Management Plan – Rural Center (CREMP-RC)

Coquille River Estuary Management Plan – Rural Residential (CREMP-RR)

The purpose of the Rural Shoreland Segments as listed in order by the number as follows:

• Rural Shoreland Segment 18 (RS-18) contains CREMP-RR-2 zoning and shall be
managed to provide water access for residential lots fronting the river and for water-front
residential development provided flood-protection and riparian vegetation requirements are
met (see Policies 27 and 23).

• Rural Shoreland Segment 25 (RS-25) contains CREMP-RR-2 zoning and shall be
managed for the continuation of rural residential uses, provided flood protection
requirements are met. (See Policy 27)

• Rural Shoreland Segment 30 (RS-30) contains CREMP-RR-5 zoning and shall be
managed to provide water access for residential lots fronting the river and for water-front
residential development provided flood-protection and riparian vegetation requirements are
met (see Policies Shoreland Segment 27 and Shoreland Segment 23).

• Rural Shoreland Segment 50 (RS-50) contains both CREMP-RR-2 and CREMP-RR-5
zoning and shall be managed to provide water access for residential lots fronting the river
and for water-front residential developments provided flood-protection and riparian
vegetation requirements are met (see Policies 27 and 23).

• Rural Shoreland Segment 51(RS-51) contains CREMP-RR-2 zoning and shall be
managed for recreational uses connected with the Coquille Boat Ramp and other uses as
permitted by the uses/activities matrix.
III-22

• Rural Shoreland Segment 61 (RS-61) contains CREMP-RR-5 zoning and shall be
managed to provide water access for residential lots fronting the river and for water-front
residential development provided flood-protection and riparian vegetation requirements are
met (see Policies 27 and 23).

• Rural Shoreland Segment 63 (RS-63) contains both CREMP-RR-2 and CREMP-RR-5
zoning and shall be managed to provide water access for residential lots fronting the river
and for water-front residential development provided flood-protection and riparian
vegetation requirements are met (see Policies 27 and 23).

• Rural Shoreland Segment 74 (RS-74) contains both CREMP-RR-2 and CREMP-RR-5
zoning and shall be managed for the continuation of rural residential uses, provided flood-
protection requirements are met (see Policy 27).

SECTION 3.3.300 DEVELOPMENT AND USE PERMITTED:

The following uses and activities are permitted outright in the in the CREMP-Rural Residential.

1. Agriculture:

a. Farm use pursuant to ORS 215.203 for either profit or not for profit.
b. Farm buildings.

2. Passive Restoration.

3. Temporary residences shall consist of a mobile home, travel trailer or recreational vehicle
used as a dwelling temporarily during construction of a permitted structure. Duration not to
exceed one (1) year, subject to renewal.

4. Service lines.

5. Non-structural shoreland stabilization.

6. Day care facility (12 or fewer persons).

SECTION 3.3.310 ADMINISTRATIVE CONDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND USE:

The following uses and activities are permitted under an administrative conditional use permit
CREP-Rural Residential.

1. Propagation, management or harvesting of a forest product may be permitted subject to the
following:

a. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 18, 30, 50, 61 and 63 may be permitted subject to
Policies #14, # 21, #23 and #27.
b. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 25, 51 and 74 may be permitted subject to Policies
#14, #21 and #27.

2. Low intensity recreation:
III-23

a. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 18, 30, 50, 61 and 63 may be permitted subject to
Policies #14, #23 and #27.
b. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 25, 51 and 74 may be permitted subject to Policies
#14 and #27.

3. Residential:

a. Single family dwelling

i. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 18, 30, 50, 61 and 63 may be permitted
subject to Policies #14, #23 and #27.
ii. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 25, 51 and 74 may be permitted subject to
Policies #14 and #27.

b. Family hardship dwelling

i. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 18, 30, 50, 61 and 63 may be permitted
subject to Policies #14, #23 and #27.
ii. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 25, 51 and 74 may be permitted subject to
Policies #14 and #27.

c. Two family duplex may be permitted provided the density of units do not, exceed
the allowable density of the zoning district.

i. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 18, 30, 50, 61 and 63 may be permitted
subject to Policies #14, #23 and #27.
ii. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 25, 51 and 74 may be permitted subject to
Policies #14 and #27.

4. Land Divisions:

a. Partition and Subdivision

i. This use may be permitted subject to the provisions of CREMP Policies:

1) In CREMP Shoreland Segment 18, 30, 50, 61 and 63 may be
permitted subject to Policies #14, #15, #23 and #27.
2) In CREMP Shoreland Segment 25, 51 and 74 may be permitted
subject to Policies #14, #15 and #27.

ii. Each parcel or lot shall meet the minimum lot/parcel size and development
standards unless it is a residual of resource (Farm or Forest) land division.
iii. Must comply with the requirements of Chapter VI for land divisions.
iv. Notice will be sent as required by Article 5.0.
v. Final Plat is a ministerial review.

b. Residential PUD

i. This use may be permitted subject to the provisions of CREMP Policies:
III-24

1) In CREMP Shoreland Segment 18, 30, 50, 61 and 63 may be
permitted subject to Policies #14, #15, #23 and #27.
2) In CREMP Shoreland Segment 25, 51 and 74 may be permitted
subject to Policies #14, #15 and #27.

ii. Residential Planned Unit Development - Maintenance Standards and
Principles:
iii. Minimum Sized Area for Developments. A Planned Unit Development shall be of
sufficient size to allow the objectives and standards of this Section to be met and
shall, as a minimum, comply with the following:

1) The minimum size for a tract of land to be developed as a Planned Unit
Development (PUD) shall be not less than five (5) contiguous acres and of
such configuration as to be conducive to a Planned Unit Development. or
2) A Planned Unit Development application may be filed on a tract of land
less than five (5) contiguous acres but no approval shall be given to such
application unless Coos County determines, upon a showing by the
applicant, that the minimum size required in paragraph "1" above should
be waived if one or more of the following conditions exist:

a) Because of unusual physical features of the property or of the
neighborhood in which it is located, a substantial deviation from
the regulations otherwise applicable is necessary or appropriate in
order to conserve a resource or amenity, such as aesthetic
vegetation, etc.
b) The property or its neighborhood has historical character of
economic importance to the community that could be protected by
use of a Planned Unit Development.
c) The property is adjacent to property which has been officially
approved, developed or redeveloped as a Planned Unit
Development on the subject property can be effectively integrated
with the existing PUD.
d) The property is determined to be an isolated problem area that has
been bypassed in the course of development and for which a
Planned Unit Development is determined to be the most feasible
method of developing said area.

iv. Must comply with the requirements of Chapter VI for land divisions.
v. Notice will be sent as required by Article 5.0.
vi. Final Plat is a ministerial review.

5. Communication structure must be found compatible with surrounding uses or may be made
compatible through the imposition of conditions.

a. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 18, 30, 50, 61 and 63 may be permitted subject to
Policies #14, #23 and #27.
b. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 25, 51 and 74 may be permitted subject to Policies
#14 and #27.

III-25
6. Air & water navigation aids must be found compatible with surrounding uses or may be
made compatible through the imposition of conditions.

a. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 18, 30, 50, 61 and 63 may be permitted subject to
Policies #14, #23 and #27.
b. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 25, 51 and 74 may be permitted subject to Policies
#14 and #27.

7. Sewer/water plant/ pump station must be found compatible with surrounding uses or may
be made compatible through the imposition of conditions.

a. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 18, 30, 50, 61 and 63 may be permitted subject to
Policies #14, #23 and #27.
b. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 25, 51 and 74 may be permitted subject to Policies
#14 and #27.

8. Dikes:

a. New construction is not permitted in CREMP Shoreland Segments 18 and 30.

i. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 50, 61 and 63 may be permitted subject to
Policies #14, #23 and #27.
ii. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 25, 51 and 74 may be permitted subject to
Policies #14 and #27.

b. Maintenance/repair of existing dikes.

i. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 18, 30, 50, 61 and 63 may be permitted
subject to Policies #14, #23 and #27.
ii. In CREMP Shoreland Segment 25, 51 and 74 may be permitted subject to
Policies #14 and #27.

9. Drainage and tide gating may be permitted subject to the provisions of CREMP Policies:

a. In CREMP Shoreland Segments 18, 30, 50, 61 and 63 may be permitted subject to
Policies #14, #15, #23 and #27.
b. In CREMP Shoreland Segments 25, 51 and 74 may be permitted subject to Policies
#14, #15 and #27.

10. Dredge material disposal is not permitted in CREMP Shoreland Segments 18, 25, 30, 50
and 74. DMD to include stabilization measure to control run-off and prevent sloughing.

a. In CREMP Shoreland Segments 61 and 63 may be permitted subject to Policies
#14, #20, #23 and #27.
b. In CREMP Shoreland Segments 51 may be permitted subject to Policies #14, #20
and #27.

11. Fill:
a. In CREMP Shoreland Segments 50, 61 and 63 may be permitted subject to Policies
#14, #23 and #27.
III-26
b. In CREMP Shoreland Segments 51 and 74 may be permitted subject to Policies
#14, and #27.

12. Mitigation:

a. In CREMP Shoreland Segments 18, 30, 50, 61 and 63 may be permitted subject to
Policies #14, #23 and #27.
b. In CREMP Shoreland Segments 25, 51 and 74 may be permitted subject to Policies
#14, and #27.

13. Structural Shoreland Stabilization:

a. In CREMP Shoreland Segments 50, 61 and 63 may be permitted subject to Policies
#9, #14, #23 and #27.
b. In CREMP Shoreland Segments 25, 51 and 74 may be permitted subject to Policies
#9, #14 and #27.

14. Day care facility (13 or more persons) must be found compatible with surrounding uses or
may be made compatible through the imposition of conditions.

15. Research & education observation structure must be found compatible with surrounding
uses or may be made compatible through the imposition of conditions.

a. In CREMP Shoreland Segments 18, 30, 50, 61 and 63 may be permitted subject to
Policies #14, #23 and #27.
b. In CREMP Shoreland Segments 25, 51 and 74 may be permitted subject to Policies
#14, and #27.

SECTION 3.3.320 HEARINGS BODY CONDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND USE:

The following uses and activities are permitted under a hearings body conditional use permit in the
CREMP-Rural Residential.

1. Contaminated Soil/Land Farming must be found compatible with surrounding uses or may
be made compatible through the imposition of conditions.

2. High intensity recreation must be found compatible with surrounding uses or may be made
compatible through the imposition of conditions.

a. In CREMP Shoreland Segments 18, 30, 50, 61 and 63 may be permitted subject to
Policies #14, #23 and #27.
b. In CREMP Shoreland Segments 25, 51 and 74 may be permitted subject to Policies
#14, and #27.

3. Bed & breakfast must be found compatible with surrounding uses or may be made
compatible through the imposition of conditions.

a. In CREMP Shoreland Segments 18, 30, 50, 61 and 63 may be permitted subject to
Policies #14, #23 and #27.
III-27
b. In CREMP Shoreland Segments 25, 51 and 74 may be permitted subject to Policies
#14, and #27.
c. A bed and breakfast facilities shall be subject to the following conditions:

i. All "bed and breakfast facilities" shall be established within the primary
residence.
ii. Breakfast shall be the only meal served to overnight paying guests.
iii. No cooking facilities shall be permitted in any rented room.
iv. The maximum number of rooms, which may be rented shall not exceed four
(4).
v. Off-street parking shall be provided as follows:

1) Two spaces for the owner/occupant, plus 1 space for each additional
bedroom.
2) A plot plan and a parking/traffic plan shall be submitted, to address
the following:

a) The property boundaries.
b) Access to the property.
c) Location of all structures on the subject property.
d) Required parking spaces.
e) The parking/traffic plan shall show required parking and
traffic flow. All parking/traffic plans shall be reviewed by the
Roadmaster to determine traffic safety.

d. One (1) non-illuminated sign shall be permitted not to exceed six (6) square feet of
copy area (the words "hotel or motel" shall not be used). A "bed and breakfast
facility" must be conducted in such a manner so as not to give an outward
appearance or outwardly manifest any characteristic of a motel, hotel, or other
business

4. Utility Facility – generation of power for private use or sale must be found compatible with
surrounding uses or may be made compatible through the imposition of conditions.

a. In CREMP Shoreland Segments 18, 30, 50, 61 and 63 may be permitted subject to
Policies #14, #23 and #27.
b. In CREMP Shoreland Segments 25, 51 and 74 may be permitted subject to Policies
#14, and #27.

SECTION 3.3.330 DEVELOPMENT AND USE STANDARDS.

The following are development standards for the CREMP-RR shoreland segments.

1. Minimum Lot Size:

a. Refer to the lot size found on the Special Consideration Map for the CREMP.
b. Exception to minimum lot sizes in Rural Residential:

III-28
i. Smaller parcels may be permitted in an approved residential planned unit
development, provided the allowable density of the parent parcel is not
exceeded.
ii. Any lawfully created parcel or lot created prior to January 1, 1986 that is
equal to or greater than one acre. Multiple parcels or lots may be combined
to equal one acre but then a restriction shall be placed on the deed and
parcels and/or lots shall be combined into one tax lot.
iii. Any lawfully created parcel or lot created prior to January 1, 1986 that does
not equal one acre including the combination of parcels or lots shall be
subject to a conditional use in Section 4.2.210(2).
iv. Creation of parcels less than the minimum lot size of the zoning district shall
be permitted provided the following circumstances exist:

1) The subject property is not zoned for resource use.
2) An existing dwelling (lawfully or grandfathered, but not for
temporary purposes) sited prior to January 1, 1986 will remain sited
on each proposed parcel.
3) A land division is submitted and approved by Coos County pursuant
to the current standards. and
4) If the development is proposed to be located on a lot or parcel or a
combination of lots and parcels less than one acre then a conditional
use will be required to address Section 4.2.210(2) .

2. Setbacks:

a. All buildings or structures with the exception of fences shall be set back a minimum
of thirty-five (35) feet from any road right-of-way centerline, or five (5) feet from
the right-of-way line, whichever is greater.
b. Firebreak: New or replacement dwellings on lots, parcels or tracts abutting the
“Forest” zone shall establish and maintain a firebreak, for a distance of at least 30
feet in all directions. Vegetation within this firebreak may include mowed grasses,
low shrubs (less than ground floor window height), and trees that are spaced with
more than 15 feet between the crowns and pruned to remove dead and low (less
than 8 feet from the ground) branches. Accumulated needles, limbs and other dead
vegetation should be removed from beneath trees. [ORD 95-05-006PL  11/29/95]

3. Fences, Hedges, and Walls: No requirement, but vision clearance provisions of Section
7.1.525 apply.

4. Off-street Parking and Loading requirements are found in Chapter VII.

5. Minimum road frontage/lot width unless waived by the Planning Director in consultation
with the County Surveyor and Roadmaster due to creating an unsafe or irregular
configuration will require a notice of administrative determination and notice will be
provided in accordance with Article 5.2:

a. Minimum lot width: 50 feet
b. Minimum road frontage: 30 feet

III-29
6. Any applicant for a rural residential building or septic permit adjacent to a forest or
agriculture zone shall sign a statement on the Zoning Clearance Letter acknowledging that:
“the normal intensive management practices occurring on adjacent resource land will not
conflict with the rural residential landowner’s enjoyment of his or her property.”

7. Riparian Vegetation Protection. Riparian vegetation within 50 feet of a estuarine wetland,
stream, lake or river, as identified on the Coastal Shoreland and Fish and Wildlife habitat
inventory maps, shall be maintained except that:

a. Trees certified as posing an erosion or safety hazard. property owner is responsible
for ensuring compliance with all local, state and federal agencies for the removal of
the tree.
b. Riparian vegetation may be removed to provide direct access for a water-dependent
use. The minimal amount of vegetation should be removed.
c. Riparian vegetation may be removed in order to allow establishment of authorized
structural shoreline stabilization measures.
d. Riparian vegetation may be removed to facilitate stream or stream bank clearance
projects under a port district, ODFW, BLM, Soil & Water Conservation District, or
USFS stream enhancement plan.
e. Riparian vegetation may be removed in order to site or properly maintain public
utilities and road right-of-ways.
f. Riparian vegetation may be removed in conjunction with existing agricultural
operations (e.g. to site or maintain irrigation pumps, to limit encroaching brush, to
allow harvesting farm crops customarily grown within riparian corridors, etc.)
provided that such vegetation removal does not encroach further into the vegetation
buffer except as needed to provide an access to the water to site or maintain
irrigation pumps.
g. The 50’ riparian vegetation setback shall not apply in any instance where an
existing structure was lawfully established and an addition or alteration to said
structure is to be sited not closer to the estuarine wetland, stream, lake, or river than
the existing structure and said addition or alteration represents not more than 100%
of the size of the existing structure’s “footprint”.
h. Riparian removal within the Coastal Shoreland Boundary will require a conditional
use. See Special Development Considerations Coastal Shoreland Boundary.
i. Riparian removal within the Coastal Shoreland Boundary will require a conditional
use. See Special Development Considerations Coastal Shoreland Boundary.
j. The 50’ measurement shall be taken from the ordinary high water mark using a
right angle from the ordinary high water mark.

8. Access to new dwellings shall meet road and driveway standards in Chapter VII.

Coquille River Estuary Management Plan – Rural Center (CREMP-RC)

The purpose of the Rural Shoreland Segments as listed in order by the number as follows:

• Rural Shoreland Segment 57 (RS-57) contains CREMP-RC zoning and shall be managed
for the continuation of residential and commercial uses as consistent with the rural center
function of Arago, provided flood protection requirements are met. (See Policy Shoreland
Segment 27)
III-30

SECTION 3.3.400 DEVELOPMENT AND USE PERMITTED:

The following uses and activities are permitted outright in the in the CREMP-RC.

1. Agriculture:

a. Farm use pursuant to ORS 215.203 for either profit or not for profit.
b. Farm buildings outside of the unincorporated community boundary.
c. Farm building inside the unincorporated community boundary.

2. Passive Restoration.

3. Family hardship dwelling inside the unincorporated boundary may be permitted subject to
Policies #14 and #27.

4. Residential:

a. Temporary residence can only be a mobile home, travel trailer or recreational
vehicle used as a dwelling temporarily during construction of a permitted structure.
Duration not to exceed one (1) year, subject to renewal.
b. Second floor apartment may be permitted above a commercial or industrial use.

5. Service lines.

6. Non-structural shoreland stabilization.

7. Day care facility (12 or fewer persons).

SECTION 3.3.410 ADMINISTRATIVE CONDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND USE:

The following uses and activities are permitted under an administrative conditional use permit
CREMP-Rural Center.

1. Commercial activities in conjunction with farm or forest use:

a. Equipment sales or repair must be found compatible with surrounding uses or may
be made compatible through the imposition of conditions and may be permitted
subject to Policies #14 and #27.
b. Seasonal product sale must be found compatible with surrounding uses or may be
made compatible through the imposition of conditions and may be permitted subject
to Policies #14 and #27.

2. Commercial activities:

a. Outside of the unincorporated community boundary

i. Veterinary clinic:

III-31
1) Must be found compatible with surrounding uses or may be made
compatible through the imposition of conditions;
2) May be permitted subject to Policies #14 and #27; and
3) The commercial use is located in building or buildings not to exceed
2,500 square feet of floor area.

ii. Kennel:

1) Must be found compatible with surrounding uses or may be made
compatible through the imposition of conditions;
2) May be permitted subject to Policies #14 and #27; and
3) The commercial use is located in building or buildings not to exceed
2,500 square feet of floor area.

b. Inside of the unincorporated community boundary

i. Veterinary clinic:

1) Must be found compatible with surrounding uses or may be made
compatible through the imposition of conditions;
2) May be permitted subject to Policies #14 and #27; and
3) The commercial use is located in building or buildings not to exceed
4,000 square feet of floor area.

ii. Kennel:

1) Must be found compatible with surrounding uses or may be made
compatible through the imposition of conditions;
2) May be permitted subject to Policies #14 and #27; and
3) The commercial use is located in building or buildings not to exceed
4,000 square feet of floor area.

3. Propagation, management or harvesting of a forest product may be permitted subject to
Policies #14, #21 and #27.

4. Low intensity recreation may be permitted subject to Policies #14 and #27.

5. Residential:

a. Single family dwelling may be permitted subject to Policies #14 and #27.
b. Family hardship dwelling outside the unincorporated boundary may be permitted
subject to Policies #14 and #27.
c. Two family duplex:

i. May be permitted subject to Policies #14 and #27; and
ii. The use may be permitted provided the density of units does not, exceed the
allowable density of the zoning district.

III-32
6. Land Divisions:

a. Partition and Subdivision:

i. This use may be permitted subject to Policies #14, #15 and #27.
ii. Each parcel or lot shall meet the minimum lot/parcel size and development
standards unless it is a residual of resource (Farm or Forest) land division.
iii. Must comply with the requirements of Chapter VI for land divisions.
iv. Notice will be sent as required by Article 5.0.
v. Final Plat is a ministerial review.

b. Residential PUD:

i. This use may be permitted subject to Policies #14, #15 and #27.
ii. Residential Planned Unit Development - Maintenance Standards and
Principles.
iii. Minimum Sized Area for Developments. A Planned Unit Development shall be of
sufficient size to allow the objectives and standards of this Section to be met and
shall, as a minimum, comply with the following:

1) The minimum size for a tract of land to be developed as a Planned Unit
Development (PUD) shall be not less than five (5) contiguous acres and of
such configuration as to be conducive to a Planned Unit Development. or
2) A Planned Unit Development application may be filed on a tract of land
less than five (5) contiguous acres but no approval shall be given to such
application unless Coos County determines, upon a showing by the
applicant, that the minimum size required in paragraph "1" above should
be waived if one or more of the following conditions exist:

a) Because of unusual physical features of the property or of the
neighborhood in which it is located, a substantial deviation from
the regulations otherwise applicable is necessary or appropriate in
order to conserve a resource or amenity, such as aesthetic
vegetation, etc.
b) The property or its neighborhood has historical character of
economic importance to the community that could be protected by
use of a Planned Unit Development.
c) The property is adjacent to property which has been officially
approved, developed or redeveloped as a Planned Unit
Development on the subject property can be effectively integrated
with the existing PUD.
d) The property is determined to be an isolated problem area that has
been bypassed in the course of development and for which a
Planned Unit Development is determined to be the most feasible
method of developing said area.

iv. Must comply with the requirements of Chapter VI for land divisions.
v. Notice will be sent as required by Article 5.0.
vi. Final Plat is a ministerial review.

III-33
7. Communication structure must be found compatible with surrounding uses or may be made
compatible through the imposition of conditions and may be permitted subject to Policies
#14 and #27.

8. Air & water navigation aids outside the unincorporated boundary must be found
compatible with surrounding uses or may be made compatible through the imposition of
conditions and may be permitted subject to Policies #14 and #27.

9. Air & water navigation aids inside the unincorporated boundary must be found compatible
with surrounding uses or may be made compatible through the imposition of conditions.

10. Sewer/water plant/ pump station must be found compatible with surrounding uses or may
be made compatible through the imposition of conditions and may be permitted subject to
Policies #14 and #27.

11. Dikes:

a. New construction may be permitted subject to Policies #14 and #27.
b. Maintenance/repair may be permitted subject to Policies #14 and #27.

12. Drainage and tidegating may be permitted subject to Policies #14, #15 and #27.

13. Mitigation may be permitted subject to Policies #14 and #27.

14. Day care facility (13 or more persons) must be found compatible with surrounding uses or
may be made compatible through the imposition of conditions.

15. Research & education observation structure must be found compatible with surrounding
uses or may be made compatible through the imposition of conditions and may be
permitted subject to Policies #14 and #27.

SECTION 3.3.420 HEARINGS BODY CONDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND USE:

The following uses and activities are permitted under a hearings body conditional use permit in the
CREMP-Rural Center.

1. Commercial activities inside of the unincorporated community boundary:

a. Water-dependent(WD) or water related outside of the urban community boundary:

i. Must be found compatible with surrounding uses or may be made
compatible through the imposition of conditions;
ii. May be permitted subject to Policies #14 and #27; and
iii. The commercial use is located in building or buildings not to exceed 2,500
square feet of floor area.

b. Water-dependent (WD) or water related inside of the urban community boundary:

i. Must be found compatible with surrounding uses or may be made
compatible through the imposition of conditions;
III-34
ii. May be permitted subject to Policies #14 and #27; and
iii. The commercial use is located in building or buildings not to exceed 4,000
square feet of floor area.

2. High intensity recreation must be found compatible with surrounding uses or may be made
compatible through the imposition of conditions and may be permitted subject to Policies
#14 and #27.

3. Hotel/Motel inside the unincorporated boundary only:

a. Must be found compatible with surrounding uses or may be made compatible
through the imposition of conditions;
b. May be permitted subject to Policies #14 and #27; and
c.  New hotels and motels up to 35 units are allowed only if served by a community
sewer system. New hotels and motels are not allowed outside an unincorporated
community.

4. Bed and Breakfast:

a. Must be found compatible with surrounding uses or may be made compatible
through the imposition of conditions;
b. May be permitted subject to Policies #14 and #27; and
c. A bed and breakfast facilities shall be subject to the following conditions:

i. All "bed and breakfast facilities" shall be established within the primary
residence;
ii. Breakfast shall be the only meal served to overnight paying guests;
iii. No cooking facilities shall be permitted in any rented room;
iv. The maximum number of rooms, which may be rented shall not exceed four
(4);
v. Off-street parking shall be provided as follows:

1) Two spaces for the owner/occupant, plus 1 space for each additional
bedroom.
2) A plot plan and a parking/traffic plan shall be submitted, to address
the following:

a) The property boundaries.
b) Access to the property.
c) Location of all structures on the subject property.
d) Required parking spaces.
e) The parking/traffic plan shall show required parking and
traffic flow. All parking/traffic plans shall be reviewed by the
Roadmaster to determine traffic safety.

d. One (1) non-illuminated sign shall be permitted not to exceed six (6) square feet of
copy area (the words "hotel or motel" shall not be used). A "bed and breakfast
facility" must be conducted in such a manner so as not to give an outward
appearance or outwardly manifest any characteristic of a motel, hotel, or other
business
III-35

5. Utility facility for the generation of power for public sale or private use must be found
compatible with surrounding uses or may be made compatible through the imposition of
conditions and may be permitted subject to Policies #14 and #27.

SECTION 3.3.430 DEVELOPMENT AND USE STANDARDS.

The following are development standards for the CREMP-RC shoreland segments.

1. Minimum Lot Size:

a. Refer to the lot size found on the Special Consideration Map for the CREMP.
b. Exception to minimum lot sizes in Rural Residential:

i. Smaller parcels may be permitted in an approved residential planned unit
development, provided the allowable density of the parent parcel is not
exceeded.
ii. Any lawfully created parcel or lot created prior to January 1, 1986 that is
equal to or greater than one acre. Multiple parcels or lots may be combined
to equal one acre but then a restriction shall be placed on the deed and
parcels and/or lots shall be combined into one tax lot.
iii. Any lawfully created parcel or lot created prior to January 1, 1986 that does
not equal one acre including the combination of parcels or lots shall be
subject to a conditional use in Section 4.2.210(2).
iv. Creation of parcels less than the minimum lot size of the zoning district shall
be permitted provided the following circumstances exist:

1) The subject property is not zoned for resource use;
2) An existing dwelling (lawfully or grandfathered, but not for
temporary purposes) sited prior to January 1, 1986 will remain sited
on each proposed parcel;
3) A land division is submitted and approved by Coos County pursuant
to the current standards;
4) If the development is proposed to be located on a lot or parcel or a
combination of lots and parcels less than one acre then a conditional
use will be required to address Section 4.2.210(2) .

2. Setbacks:

a. All buildings or structures with the exception of fences shall be set back a minimum
of thirty-five (35) feet from any road right-of-way centerline, or five (5) feet from
the right-of-way line, whichever is greater.
b. Firebreak: New or replacement dwellings on lots, parcels or tracts abutting the
“Forest” zone shall establish and maintain a firebreak, for a distance of at least 30
feet in all directions. Vegetation within this firebreak may include mowed grasses,
low shrubs (less than ground floor window height), and trees that are spaced with
more than 15 feet between the crowns and pruned to remove dead and low (less
than 8 feet from the ground) branches. Accumulated needles, limbs and other dead
vegetation should be removed from beneath trees. [ORD 95-05-006PL  11/29/95]

III-36
3. Fences, Hedges, and Walls: No requirement, but vision clearance provisions of Section
7.1.525 apply.

4. Off-street Parking and Loading requirements are found in Chapter VII.

5. Minimum road frontage/lot width unless waived by the Planning Director in consultation
with the County Surveyor and Roadmaster due to creating an unsafe or irregular
configuration will require a notice of administrative determination and notice will be
provided in accordance with Article 5.2:

a. Minimum lot width: 50 feet
b. Minimum road frontage: 30 feet

6. Any applicant for a rural residential building or septic permit adjacent to a forest or
agriculture zone shall sign a statement on the Zoning Clearance Letter acknowledging that:
“the normal intensive management practices occurring on adjacent resource land will not
conflict with the rural residential landowner’s enjoyment of his or her property.”

7. Riparian Vegetation Protection. Riparian vegetation within 50 feet of a estuarine wetland,
stream, lake or river, as identified on the Coastal Shoreland and Fish and Wildlife habitat
inventory maps, shall be maintained except that:

a. Trees certified as posing an erosion or safety hazard. Property owner is responsible
for ensuring compliance with all local, state and federal agencies for the removal of
the tree.
b. Riparian vegetation may be removed to provide direct access for a water-dependent
use. The minimal amount of vegetation should be removed.
c. Riparian vegetation may be removed in order to allow establishment of authorized
structural shoreline stabilization measures.
d. Riparian vegetation may be removed to facilitate stream or stream bank clearance
projects under a port district, ODFW, BLM, Soil & Water Conservation District, or
USFS stream enhancement plan.
e. Riparian vegetation may be removed in order to site or properly maintain public
utilities and road right-of-ways.
f. Riparian vegetation may be removed in conjunction with existing agricultural
operations (e.g. to site or maintain irrigation pumps, to limit encroaching brush, to
allow harvesting farm crops customarily grown within riparian corridors, etc.)
provided that such vegetation removal does not encroach further into the vegetation
buffer except as needed to provide an access to the water to site or maintain
irrigation pumps.
g. The 50’ riparian vegetation setback shall not apply in any instance where an
existing structure was lawfully established and an addition or alteration to said
structure is to be sited not closer to the estuarine wetland, stream, lake, or river than
the existing structure and said addition or alteration represents not more than 100%
of the size of the existing structure’s “footprint”.
h. Riparian removal within the Coastal Shoreland Boundary will require a conditional
use. See Special Development Considerations Coastal Shoreland Boundary.
i. Riparian removal within the Coastal Shoreland Boundary will require a conditional
use. See Special Development Considerations Coastal Shoreland Boundary.
III-37
j. The 50’ measurement shall be taken from the ordinary high water mark using a
right angle from the ordinary high water mark.

8. Access to new dwellings shall meet road and driveway standards in Chapter VII.

COQUILLE RIVER ESTUARY MANAGEMENT PLAN - INDUSTRIAL SHORELAND
SEGMENTS (CREMP-IND)

• Industrial Shoreland Segment 14 (14-INDS) shall be managed for development of a dock
and storage area for bulk material loading or similar low-intensity industrial use. Due
consideration shall be given to minimizing noise or visual impacts on the adjacent State
Park, and to protection of archaeological resources (see Policy Shoreland Segment 18).

• Industrial Shoreland Segment 16 (16-INDS) shall be managed to continue its use as a
mill or for other industrial uses, utilizing the existing dock and water access.

• Industrial Shoreland Segment 20 (20-INDS) shall be managed to develop this area of
historic water-front development for industrial and commercial uses connected with boat
building, repair, port operations, moorage and other water-dependent or related uses.

• Industrial Shoreland Segment 40 (40-INDS) shall be managed for general industrial,
commercial or other development particularly uses which utilize the water-frontage of the
site. However, continuation and expansion of existing non-water-dependent/related uses
shall be allowed.

• Shoreland Segments 45 (45-INDS), 52 (52-INDS), 54 (54-INDS) and 59 (59-INDS)
shall be managed for the continuation of industrial use including development of water
access if necessary.

SECTION 3.3.500 DEVELOPMENT AND USE PERMITTED:

The following uses and activities are permitted outright in the in the CREMP-IND.

1. Residential

a. Watchman/Caretaker shall not be permitted in IND Shoreland Segments 14 and 16.
All other IND Shoreland Segment must comply with the following:

i. This use permitted only if in conjunction with a permitted or conditionally
permitted use; and
ii. This use is subject to the provisions of CREMP Policy #18.

b. Home Occupation is subject to the provision of CREMP Policy #18.

2. Contaminated Soil/land farming is subject to the provision of CREMP Policy #18.

3. Exploration for Geo-thermal, Aggregate or Other mineral or subsurface resource is subject
to the provision of CREMP Policy #18 and the following review criteria. The following
III-38
conditions shall be included in any conditional use permit for exploration for subsurface
mineral resource:

a. Exploration of geo-thermal energy, aggregate and other mineral or subsurface
resources not including water.
b. All drill holes shall be filled and capped according to the following standards, and
bonds to secure performance of this obligation shall be required as follows:

i. The applicant shall provide the Coos County Watermaster with the location
of each hole by township, range, section and driller's identification number
of all holes drilled.
ii. A plot plan showing these locations will be furnished to the Watermaster.
iii. The applicant shall seal all test holes from the bottom within 2 feet of land
surface with cement, native clay, bentonite mixture (e.g., "Sure-Gel", Aqua
Gel") of 9 pounds to 9-1/2 pounds of bentonite per gallon of water.
iv. If artesian flows are encountered, the test hole will be:

1) Abandoned according to the following abandonment procedures:
ABANDONMENT OF ARTESIAN EXPLORATION HOLES. The
flow of artesian exploration holes to be abandoned shall be confined or
restricted by cement grout applied under pressure, or by the use of a
suitable well packer, or a wooden or cast lead plug placed at the bottom
of the confining formation immediately above the artesian water-
bearing zone. Cement grout or concrete shall be used to effectively fill
the exploration hole to land surface. Or
2) Developed for use of the artesian flow by a water well driller who is
properly licensed and bonded by the State of Oregon.

v. If unusual conditions occur at a test hole site and compliance to the above
standards will not result in a satisfactorily abandoned hole, the driller shall
request that special standards be prescribed by the Watermaster for the
particular hole.
vi. The applicant shall notify the County Watermaster prior to the abandonment
of all test holes, drill holes, exploration holes, etc. As used in this section the
term 'abandonment' shall mean the act of filling any hole with the required
sealing material.
vii. In addition to complying with the procedures outlined above, the applicant
shall post a surety bond in the amount of five thousand ($5,000.00) dollars
for each hole drilled or a bond for fifty thousand ($50,000.00) dollars to
cover all test holes. The surety bond shall be filed with the Board of
Commissioners, and may be written by a surety company duly licensed by
and authorized to do business in the State of Oregon. The release of such
bond shall be conditioned upon the successful capping of all holes according
to the procedure described above.
viii. Although it is recommended that the test hole be sealed prior to moving the
drilling rig, in no case shall the drill hole be left open for more than five (5)
days after the drilling rig is moved off the test hole without prior approval of
the County's designated representative.

III-39
b. The applicant shall be required to construct a catch basin around each drilling site to
retain any possible run-off.
c. Abandonment procedure:

i. At the discretion of the County's appointed representative (usually, the
district Watermaster), this representative may require that the exploration
hole abandonment not begin until he is present at the site.
ii. In the event that paragraph "i" above, is implemented, the County's
appointed representative may, if he is unable to be present during
abandonment, otherwise authorize abandonment. This authorization may
be given verbally by telephone.
iii. The County's appointed representative may require that the exploration
hole be abandoned with cement grout.

4. Service Lines subject to the provisions of CREMP Policy #18.

5. Agricultural:

a. Farm use for profit or not for profit pursuant to ORS 215.203. This use is subject to
the provisions of CREMP Policy #18.
b. Farm Buildings subject to the provisions of CREMP Policy #18.

6. Non-structural shoreland stabilization subject to the provisions of CREMP Policy #18.

7. Passive restoration.

SECTION 3.3.510 ADMINISTRATIVE CONDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND USE:

The following uses and activities are permitted under an administrative conditional use permit
CREMP-IND.

1. Land Division (Partition and Subdivision):

a. This use may be permitted subject to the provisions of CREMP Policy 18.
b. Each parcel or lot shall meet the minimum lot/parcel size and development standards
unless it is a residual of resource (Farm or Forest) land division.
c. Must comply with the requirements of Chapter VI for land divisions.
d. Notice will be sent as required by Article 5.0.
e. Final Plat is a ministerial review.

2. Utility Facility – Generation of power not for public sale:

a. Must be found compatible with surrounding uses or may be made compatible
through the imposition of conditions;
b. This use is prohibited in the IND Shoreland Segments 14 and 16; and
c. This use may be permitted subject to the provisions of CREMP Policy #18.

3. Communication structure:

III-40
a. Must be found compatible with surrounding uses or may be made compatible
through the imposition of conditions;
b. This use is prohibited in the IND Shoreland Segments 14 and 16; and
c. This use may be permitted subject to the provisions of CREMP Policy #18.

4. Air & water navigation aids:

a. Must be found compatible with surrounding uses or may be made compatible
through the imposition of conditions;
b. This use is prohibited in the IND Shoreland Segments 14 and 16; and
c. This use may be permitted subject to the provisions of CREMP Policy #18.

5. Sewer/water plant/pump station:

a. Must be found compatible with surrounding uses or may be made compatible
through the imposition of conditions;
b. This use is prohibited in the IND Shoreland Segments 14 and 16; and
c. This use may be permitted subject to the provisions of CREMP Policy #18.

6. Mining/mineral extraction, including dredging necessary for mineral extraction Geo-
thermal or Aggregate:

a. In IND Shoreland Segments 14, 20 and 40 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policies #14, #18 and #27.
b. In IND Shoreland Segments 16 and 54 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policies #14 and #27.
c. In IND Shoreland Segment 45 this use may be permitted subject to the provisions
of CREMP Policies #23 and #27.
d. In IND Shoreland Segment 52 this use may be permitted subject to the provisions
of CREMP Policy #27.

7. Propagation, management, harvesting, or primary processing of forest products including
sawmills, manufacture and storage of logs and lumber. Forest management practices and
policies for regulation of forest lands to be consistent with LCDC Goal #17 and the Oregon
Forest Practices Act.

a. In IND Shoreland Segments 14, 20 and 40 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policies #14, #18, #21 and #27.
b. In IND Shoreland Segments 16 and 54 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policies #14, #21 and #27.
c. In IND Shoreland Segment 45 this use may be permitted subject to the provisions
of CREMP Policies #21, #23 and #27.
d. In IND Shoreland Segment 52 this use may be permitted subject to the provisions
of CREMP Policy #21 and #27.

8. Dikes:

a. Construction & maintenance is prohibited in IND Shoreland Segments 14 and 16 all
other IND Shoreland Segments shall address the applicable standards as follows:

III-41
i. In IND Shoreland Segments 20 and 40 this use may be permitted subject to
the provisions of CREMP Policies #14, #18 and #27.
ii. In IND Shoreland Segment 54 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policies #14 and #27.
iii. In IND Shoreland Segment 45 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policies #23 and #27.
iv. In IND Shoreland Segment 52 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policy #27.

b. New construction is prohibited in IND Shoreland Segments 14 and 20. All other
IND Shoreland Segments shall address the applicable standards as follows:

i. In IND Shoreland Segments 20 and 40 this use may be permitted subject to
the provisions of CREMP Policies #14, #18 and #27.
ii. In IND Shoreland Segment 54 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policies #14 and #27.
iii. In IND Shoreland Segment 45 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policies #23 and #27.
iv. In IND Shoreland Segment 52 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policy #27.

9. Drainage & tide gates is prohibited in IND Shoreland Segments 14, 16 and 20. All other
IND Shoreland Segments shall address the applicable standards as follows:

a. In IND Shoreland Segment 40 this use may be permitted subject to the provisions
of CREMP Policies #14, #18 and #27.
b. In IND Shoreland Segment 54 this use may be permitted subject to the provisions
of CREMP Policies #14 and #27.
c. In IND Shoreland Segment 45 this use may be permitted subject to the provisions
of CREMP Policies #23 and #27.
d. In IND Shoreland Segment 52 this use may be permitted subject to the provisions
of CREMP Policy #27.

10. Dredge material disposal to include stabilization measure to control run-off and prevent
sloughing:

a. In IND Shoreland Segments 14, 20 and 40 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policies #14, #18, #20 and #27.
b. In IND Shoreland Segments 16 and 54 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policies #14, #20 and #27.
c. In IND Shoreland Segment 45 this use may be permitted subject to the provisions
of CREMP Policies #20, #23 and #27.
d. In IND Shoreland Segment 52 this use may be permitted subject to the provisions
of CREMP Policies #20 and #27.

11. Fill:

a. In IND Shoreland Segments 14, 20 and 40 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policies #14, #18 and #27.
III-42
b. In IND Shoreland Segments 16 and 54 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policies #14 and #27.
c. In IND Shoreland Segment 45 this use may be permitted subject to the provisions
of CREMP Policies #23 and #27.
d. In IND Shoreland Segment 52 this use may be permitted subject to the provisions
of CREMP Policy #27.

12. Mitigation:

a. In IND Shoreland Segments 14, 20 and 40 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policies #14, #18 and #27.
b. In IND Shoreland Segments 16 and 54 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policies #14 and #27.
c. In IND Shoreland Segment 45 this use may be permitted subject to the provisions
of CREMP Policies #23 and #27.
d. In IND Shoreland Segment 52 this use may be permitted subject to the provisions
of CREMP Policy #27.

13. Shoreland Stabilization:

a. In IND Shoreland Segments 14, 20 and 40 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policies #9, #14, #18 and #27.
b. In IND Shoreland Segments 16 and 54 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policies #9, #14 and #27.
c. In IND Shoreland Segment 45 this use may be permitted subject to the provisions
of CREMP Policies #9, #23 and #27.
d. In IND Shoreland Segment 52 this use may be permitted subject to the provisions
of CREMP Policies #9 and #27.

14. High-intensity recreation:

a. In IND Shoreland Segments 14, 20 and 40 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policies #14, #18 and #27.
b. In IND Shoreland Segments 16 and 54 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policies #14 and #27.
c. In IND Shoreland Segment 45 this use may be permitted subject to the provisions
of CREMP Policies #23 and #27.
d. In IND Shoreland Segment 52 this use may be permitted subject to the provisions
of CREMP Policy #27.

15. Modification of historic structures may be permitted upon the establishment of a finding
that the modification is necessary to preserve, protect or enhance the original historical
character of the structure, based upon submission of a modification proposal and site and
architectural plans. This use is subject to CREMP Policy #18.

16. Commercial:

a. Water-dependent - The commercial use is located in building or buildings not to
exceed the floor area standards set forth in OAR 660-022-0030(10). New
III-43
commercial structures authorized outside a UCB or UGB shall not exceed 3,500
square feet of floor area.

i. In IND Shoreland Segments 14, 20 and 40 this use may be permitted subject
to the provisions of CREMP Policies #14, #18 and #27.
ii. In IND Shoreland Segments 16 and 54 this use may be permitted subject to
the provisions of CREMP Policies #14 and #27.
iii. In IND Shoreland Segment 45 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policies #23 and #27.
iv. In IND Shoreland Segment 52 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policy #27.

b. Water-related - The commercial use is located in building or buildings not to exceed
the floor area standards set forth in OAR 660-022-0030(10). New commercial
structures authorized outside a UCB or UGB shall not exceed 3,500 square feet of
floor area.

i. In IND Shoreland Segments 14, 20 and 40 this use may be permitted subject
to the provisions of CREMP Policies #14, #18 and #27.
ii. In IND Shoreland Segments 16 and 54 this use may be permitted subject to
the provisions of CREMP Policies #14 and #27.
iii. In IND Shoreland Segment 45 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policies #23 and #27.
iv. In IND Shoreland Segment 52 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policy #27.

c. Non-water-dependent/related is prohibited in IND Shoreland Segments 14, 16 and
40 all other IND Shoreland Segments shall address the applicable standards as
follows:

i. In IND Shoreland Segment 20 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policies #14, #18 and #27.
ii. In IND Shoreland Segment 54 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policies #14 and #27.
iii. In IND Shoreland Segment 45 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policies #23 and #27.
iv. In IND Shoreland Segment 52 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policy #27.
v. The commercial use is located in building or buildings not to exceed the
floor area standards set forth in OAR 660-022-0030(10). New commercial
structures authorized outside a UCB or UGB shall not exceed 3,500 square
feet of floor area.

17. Industrial uses shall be limited to water-dependent/water-related:

a. Water-dependent

i. Industrial uses in IND Shoreland Segment 14 shall be limited to storage,
bulk loading and associated activities. Existing trees in IND Shoreland
III-44
Segment 14 at the boundary of state park shall be retained as screen. This
segment is subject to the provisions of CREMP Policies #14, #18 and #27.
ii. In IND Shoreland Segments 20 and 40 this use may be permitted subject to
the provisions of CREMP Policies #14, #18 and #27.
iii. In IND Shoreland Segments 16 and 54 this use may be permitted subject to
the provisions of CREMP Policies #14 and #27.
iv. In IND Shoreland Segment 45 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policies #23 and #27.
v. In IND Shoreland Segment 52 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policy #27.
vi. The industrial use is located in building or buildings not to exceed the floor
area standards set forth in OAR 660-022-0030(11). New industrial
structures authorized outside of a UCB or UGB shall not exceed 40,000
square feet of floor area unless:

1) The industrial use involves the primary processing of raw material(s)
produced in the area or from ocean resources;
2) The industrial use is located on an abandoned or diminished mill site
as defined by statute;
3) The industrial use is located in an area where an exception to Goal
14 has been taken; or
4) As authorized by Goals 3 and/or 4. (04-04-005PL 9/1/04)
5) Alternatively, the industrial use satisfies the standards for home
occupations under ORS 215.448.

b. Water-related

i. Industrial uses in IND Shoreland Segment 14 shall be limited to storage,
bulk loading and associated activities. Existing trees in IND Shoreland
Segment 14 at the boundary of state park shall be retained as screen. This
segment is subject to the provisions of CREMP Policies #14, #18 and #27.
ii. In IND Shoreland Segments 20 and 40 this use may be permitted subject to
the provisions of CREMP Policies #14, #18 and #27.
iii. In IND Shoreland Segments 16 and 54 this use may be permitted subject to
the provisions of CREMP Policies #14 and #27.
iv. In IND Shoreland Segment 45 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policies #23 and #27.
v. In IND Shoreland Segment 52 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policy #27.
vi. The industrial use is located in building or buildings not to exceed the floor
area standards set forth in OAR 660-022-0030(11). New industrial
structures authorized outside of a UCB or UGB shall not exceed 40,000
square feet of floor area unless:

1) The industrial use involves the primary processing of raw material(s)
produced in the area or from ocean resources;
2) The industrial use is located on an abandoned or diminished mill site
as defined by statute;
3) The industrial use is located in an area where an exception to Goal
14 has been taken; or
III-45
4) As authorized by Goals 3 and/or 4. (04-04-005PL 9/1/04)
5) Alternatively, the industrial use satisfies the standards for home
occupations under ORS 215.448.

c. Water-borne transportation

i. In IND Shoreland Segments 14, 20 and 40 this use may be permitted subject
to the provisions of CREMP Policies #14, #18 and #27.
ii. In IND Shoreland Segments 16 and 54 this use may be permitted subject to
the provisions of CREMP Policies #14 and #27.
iii. In IND Shoreland Segment 45 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policies #23 and #27.
iv. In IND Shoreland Segment 52 this use may be permitted subject to the
provisions of CREMP Policy #27.

SECTION 3.3.520 HEARINGS BODY CONDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND USE:

The following uses and their accessory uses may be allowed as hearings body conditional uses in
the CREMP-IND zone.

1. Generation of Power for public sale:

a. Non-water-dependent/related uses shall not be permitted in CREMP Shoreland
Segments 14 and 16;
b. Must be found compatible with surrounding uses or may be made compatible
through the imposition of conditions; and
c. This use may be permitted subject to the provisions of CREMP Policy 18.

SECTION 3.3.530 DEVELOPMENT AND USE STANDARDS.

The following are development standards for the CREMP-RC shoreland segments.

1. Minimum Lot size:

a. Refer to CREMP lot size Special Consideration Map.
b. The dimension requirements must be meet.

2. Minimum Street frontage and minimum lot width is 20 feet.

3. Front setback is 20 feet.

4. Building height does not have any requirement, except those sites abutting a residential or
controlled development zone shall have a max height of 35 feet plus one (1) additional foot
in height for each foot of setback exceeding 5 feet ( i.e. if the setback is 10, the maximum
building height would be 40 feet). However, spires, towers, domes, steeples, flag poles,
antennae, chimneys, solar collectors, smokestacks, ventilators or other similar objects may
be erected above the prescribed height limitations, provided no usable floor space above
the height limits is thereby added. Such over height object shall not be used for advertising
of any kind.

III-46
5. Access and parking is regulated in chapter VII.

6. Riparian Vegetation Protection. Riparian vegetation within 50 feet of a estuarine wetland,
stream, lake or river, as identified on the Coastal Shoreland and Fish and Wildlife habitat
inventory maps, shall be maintained except that:

a. Trees certified as posing an erosion or safety hazard. property owner is responsible
for ensuring compliance with all local, state and federal agencies for the removal of
the tree.
b. Riparian vegetation may be removed to provide direct access for a water-dependent
use.
c. Riparian vegetation may be removed in order to allow establishment of authorized
structural shoreline stabilization measures.
d. Riparian vegetation may be removed to facilitate stream or streambank clearance
projects under a port district, ODFW, BLM, Soil & Water Conservation District, or
USFS stream enhancement plan.
e. Riparian vegetation may be removed in order to site or properly maintain public
utilities and road right-of-ways. or
f. Riparian vegetation may be removed in conjunction with existing agricultural
operations (e.g. to site or maintain irrigation pumps, to limit encroaching brush, to
allow harvesting farm crops customarily grown within riparian corridors, etc.)
provided that such vegetation removal does not encroach further into the vegetation
buffer except as needed to provide an access to the water to site or maintain
irrigation pumps.
g. The 50 foot riparian vegetation setback shall not apply in any instance where an
existing structure was lawfully established and an addition or alteration to said
structure is to be sited not closer to the estuarine wetland, stream, lake, or river than
the existing structure and said addition or alteration represents not more than 100%
of the size of the existing structure’s “footprint”.
h. Riparian removal within the Coastal Shoreland Boundary will require a conditional
use. See Special Development Considerations Coastal Shoreland Boundary.
i. The 50’ measurement shall be taken from the closest point of the ordinary high
water mark to the structure using a right angle from the ordinary high water mark.

COQUILLE RIVER ESTUARY MANGMENT PLAN - FOREST (CREMP-F)
SHORELAND SEGMENTS

• Forest Shoreland Segment 13 (13-FS) shall be managed for forest uses, with special
attention being given to protecting riparian vegetation.

• Forest Shoreland Segment 15 (15-FS) shall be managed to conserve the natural resources
of this low-lying forested wetland area with special attention being given to protecting the
riparian vegetation adjacent to the Bandon Marsh.

• Forest Shoreland Segment 17 (17-FS) shall be managed to conserve the natural resources
of this low-lying forested wetland area, with special attention being given to protecting the
riparian vegetation adjacent to the tidal marsh in Aquatic Segment Shoreland Segment 16.

III-47
• Forest Shoreland Segment 19 (19-FS) shall be managed to conserve this forested area,
with special attention being given to protecting riparian vegetation.

• Forest Shoreland Segment 22 (22-FS) shall be managed to conserve this area of forested
wetland for forest use, with special attention being given to protecting the riparian
vegetation adjacent to the marsh in Aquatic Segment Shoreland Segment 20.

• Forest Shoreland Segments 35 (35-FS) and 38 (38-FS) shall be managed for forest uses
and practices, subject to any special regulations the Oregon Department of Forestry may
adopt for forest lands in the coastal shorelands area. Any development shall be subject to
Policy Shoreland Segment 27a, addressing mass movement hazards.

SECTION 3.3.600 DEVELOPMENT AND USE PERMITTED:

The following uses and activities are permitted outright in the in the CREMP-Forest.
1. Forest operations or forest practices including, but not limited to, reforestation of forest
land, road construction and maintenance, harvesting of a forest tree species, application of
chemicals, and disposal of slash.

2. Fish and wildlife habitat management. This use is subject to Policies 14, 17, 23, and 27 in
CREMP F segments.

3. Agricultural:

a. Farm use as defined in ORS 215.203.
b. Farm buildings.

4. Explorations for mineral and aggregate resources as defined in ORS Chapter 517. This use
is permitted in CREMP F except for segments 17 and 19.

5. Alteration, restoration or replacement of a lawfully established dwelling. A lawfully
established dwelling is a single-family dwelling that:

a. Has intact exterior walls and roof structure;
b. Has indoor plumbing consisting of a kitchen sink, toilet and bathing facilities
connected to a sanitary waste disposal system;
c. Has interior wiring for interior lights;
d. Has a heating system; and
e. In the case of replacement, the dwelling to be replaced is removed, demolished or
converted to an allowable nonresidential use within three months of the
completion of the replacement dwelling. Coos County does not allow conversion
of mobile homes into accessory storage buildings or uses. These conditions must
comply with Coastal Boundary conditional use criteria in CREMP F.

6. Shoreland stabilization, nonstructural. This activity may be allowed in CREMP F, except
for Segment 15.

7. Temporary residence. Mobile home, travel trailer or recreational vehicle used as a
dwelling temporarily during construction of a permitted structure. Duration not to exceed
one (1) year, subject to renewal.
III-48

8. New electrical transmission lines with right-of-way widths of up to 100 feet as specified
in ORS 772.210. New distribution lines (e.g., gas, oil, geo-thermal) with rights-of way 50
feet or less in width.

SECTION 3.3.610 ADMINISTRATIVE CONDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND USE:

The following uses and activities are permitted under an administrative conditional use permit
CREMP-Forest. The following uses and their accessory uses may be allowed as administrative
conditional uses in the “CREMP-Forest” zone subject to applicable requirements in Section
3.3.630 and applicable siting criteria

1. Mitigation. This is a conditional use in CREMP-F. Policies #14, #17, #23, and #27 may be
applicable. This use is not permitted in Segments 35 and 38.

2. Television, microwave and radio communication facilities and transmission towers.
Policies #14, #17, #23, and #27 may be applicable.

3. Aids to navigation and aviation. Policies #14, #17, #23 and #27 may be applicable.

4. Water intake facilities, related treatment facilities, pumping stations, and distribution lines.
Policies #14, #17, #23 and #27 may be applicable.

5. One manufactured dwelling or the temporary residential use of an existing building in
conjunction with an existing dwelling as a temporary use for the term of a hardship
suffered by the existing resident or a relative of the resident. As used in this section
“hardship’ means a medical hardship or hardship for the care of an aged or infirm person or
persons. The temporary use shall use the same subsurface sewage disposal system used by
the existing dwelling, if that disposal system is adequate to accommodate the additional
dwelling. If a public sanitary sewer system is used, such condition will not be required.

In addition, the applicant must submit certification from a qualified physician stating what
the hardship is and that the person requiring the hardship dwelling must live close to
someone due to the hardship.

Within three months of the end of the hardship, the manufactured dwelling shall be
removed or demolished or, in the case of an existing building, the building shall be
removed, demolished, or returned to an allowed nonresidential use.

Every two years the Planning Director shall review the permit authorizing such temporary
hardship dwellings. Oregon Department of Environmental Quality review and removal
requirements also apply to such temporary hardship dwellings.

A temporary residence approved under this Section is not eligible for replacement under
Section 4.8.200 (S) criteria. (OR 98-01-002PL 5/4/98)

As used in this Section “manufactured dwelling” means a manufactured home, mobile
home, or recreational vehicle.

III-49
In order to minimize impacts to forest lands, the landowner shall acknowledge and file a
Forest Management Covenant in the deed records of the County prior to final County
approval.

In CREMP F, Policies #14, #17, #23 and 27 may be applicable. Policy #27a also applies in
shoreland segment 13.

6. Structural shoreland stabilization. This use is subject only to Natural Hazards Policy #5 in
Volume I, Part 1 of the Coos County Comprehensive Plan. Coos County shall promote
protection of valued property from risks associated with critical stream bank and ocean
front erosion through necessary erosion-control stabilization measures, preferring
nonstructural solutions where practical. Coos County shall implement this strategy by
making "Consistency Statements" required for State and Federal permits (necessary for
structural stream bank protection measures) that support structural protection measures
when the applicant establishes that non-structure measures either are not feasible or
inadequate to provide the necessary degree of protection. This strategy recognizes the risks
and loss of property from unabated critical stream bank erosion, and also, that state and
federal agencies regulate structural solutions. A flood elevation certificate is required for a
stabilization which will occur in the identified flood hazard area. This activity may be
permitted in CREMP-F. Policies #14, #17, #23, and #27 may be applicable. Policy #9 is
applicable. This activity is not permitted in Segment 15.

7. Dog kennels are subject to CREMP Policies #14, #17, #23 and #27.

8. Modification of an historic structure where:

a. The modification is necessary to preserve, protect or enhance the original historical
character of the structure;
b. The use must be compatible with surrounding uses or may be made compatible to
surrounding uses through the imposition of conditions;
c. A plot plan and architectural plans must be submitted for review; and
d. In addition to the above, CREMP Policies #14, #17, #23 and #27 may be
applicable. CREMP Policy 27a also applies in segment 13.

9. Land Divisions:

a. Partition and Subdivision

i. This use may be permitted subject to Policies #14, #15 and #27.
ii. Each parcel or lot shall meet the minimum lot/parcel size and development
standards for land division.
iii. Must comply with the requirements of Chapter VI for land divisions.
iv. Notice will be sent as required by Article 5.0.
v. Final Plat is a ministerial review.

SECTION 3.3.620 HEARINGS BODY CONDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND USE:

The following uses and their accessory uses may be allowed as hearings body conditional uses in
the CREMP-Forest zone subject to the applicable requirements in Section 3.3630 and 3.3.640 set
forth in this Article.
III-50

1. Mining and processing of oil, gas, or other subsurface resources, as defined in ORS
Chapter 520, and not otherwise permitted under Section 4.8.200 (R) (e.g., compressors,
separators and storage serving multiple wells), and mining and processing of aggregate and
mineral resources as defined in ORS Chapter 517. CREMP Policies #14, #17, #23 and #27
may be applicable. This use is not permitted in Segments 17 and 19. Processing is not
permitted.

a. Any operation that mines less than 1,000 cubic yards of aggregate is permitted
outright with the following conditions:

i. The Planning Department must be notified at least 5 working days before
commencement of the operation.
ii. Sloping after mining must not exceed a 3:1 slope.
iii. The disturbed area must be reseeded with a native grass species.
iv. No oil or other contaminants must be allowed in the pit.
v. Approval must be obtained from DEQ if there is any backfilling of the pit.
This includes excavations of sand, gravel, clay, rock or other similar
materials conducted by a landowner or tenant’s property for the primary
purpose of reconstruction or maintenance of access roads and excavation or
grading operations conducted in the process of farming or cemetery
operations, onsite road construction or other onsite construction or
nonsurface impacts of underground mines.

b. Any operation that sells greater than 5,000 cubic yards of aggregate must comply
with standards established by the Department of Geology and Mineral Industries.

2. Contaminated Soil Land Farming where the activity is situated less than 1000 feet from any
rural-residential zone or urban growth boundary. The activity must be found to be
compatible with surrounding uses or made compatible through the imposition of
conditions. Contaminated soil land farming is permitted without conditional use review
provided the activity is situated not less than 1,000 feet from any rural-residential or urban
growth boundary.

3. “Lot-of-Record” Dwelling.  A “lot-of-record” single-family dwelling may be allowed as a
hearing’s body conditional use if the following criteria are satisfied:
a. OAR-660-006-0027(1)(a), (b), (c)(A), (d), (4), (5);
b. ORS 215-720(1)(a), (2), (3), 215.705; and
c. CREMP Policies 14, 17, 23, and 27 may also be applicable.

SECTION 3.3.630 ADDITIONAL CRITERIA FOR ALL ADMINSTRATIVE AND HEARINGS
BODY APPLICATION REVIEW:

All Conditional Use Applications (Administrative and Hearings Body) are subject to requirements that
are designed to make the use compatible with forest operations and agriculture and to conserve values
found on forest lands as follows:

1. The proposed use will not force a significant change in, or significantly increase the cost of,
accepted farming or forest practices on agriculture or forest lands.

III-51
2. The proposed use will not significantly increase fire hazard or significantly increase fire
suppression costs or significantly increase risks to fire suppression personnel.

3. All uses must comply with applicable development standards and fires siting and safety
standards.

4. A “Forest Management Covenant”, which recognized the right of adjacent and nearby
landowners to conduct forest operations consistent with the Forest Practices Act and Rules,
shall be recorded in the deed records of the County prior to any final County approval for
uses authorized in Section any type of residential use. There may be other criteria listed
that applies to individual uses.

5. The following siting criteria shall apply to all dwellings, including replacement dwellings,
and structures in the Forest and Forest Mixed Use zones. Replacement dwellings may be
sited in close proximity to the existing developed homesite. These criteria are designed to
make such uses compatible with forest operations and agriculture, to minimize wildfire
hazards and risks and to conserve values found on forest lands. These criteria may include
setbacks from adjoining properties, clustering near or among existing structures, siting
close to existing roads and siting on that portion of the parcel least suited for growing trees.

a. Dwellings and structures shall be sited on the parcel so that:

i. They have the least impact on nearby or adjoining forest or agricultural
lands;
ii. The siting ensures that adverse impacts on forest operations and accepted
farming practices on the tract will be minimized;
iii. The amount of forest lands used to site access roads, service corridors, the
dwelling and structures is minimized; and
iv. The risks associated with wildfires are minimized.

b. The applicant shall provide evidence that the domestic water supply is from a
source authorized in accordance with the Water Resources Department’s
administrative rules for the appropriation of ground water or surface water and not
from a Class II stream as defined in the Forest Practices Rules. For the purposed of
this Section, evidence of a domestic water supply means:

i. Verification from a water purveyor that the use described in the application
will be served by the purveyor under the purveyor’s rights to appropriate
water.
ii. A water use permit issued by the Water Resources Department for the use
described in the application. or
iii. Verification from the Water Resources Department that a water use permit
is not required for the use described in the application. If the proposed water
supply is from a well and is exempt from permitting requirements under
ORS 537.545, the applicant shall submit the well constructor’s report to the
County upon completion of the well.

6. As a condition of approval, if road access to the dwelling is by a road owned and
maintained by a private party or by the Oregon Department of Forestry, the United States
Bureau of Land Management, or the United States Forest Service, then the applicant shall
III-52
provide proof of a long-term road access use permit or agreement. The road use permit may
require the applicant to agree to accept responsibility for road maintenance.

7. Approval of a dwelling shall be subject to the following additional requirements:

a. Approval of a dwelling requires the owner to plant a sufficient number of trees on
the tract to demonstrate that the tract is reasonably expected to meet Department of
Forestry stocking requirements at the time specified in Department of Forestry
administrative rules.
b. The Planning Department shall notify the County Assessor of the above condition
at the time the dwelling is approved.
c. The property owner shall submit a stocking survey report to the County Assessor
and the Assessor will verify that the minimum stocking requirements have been met
by the time required by Department of Forestry Rules. The Assessor will inform the
Department of Forestry in cases where the property owner has not submitted a
stocking survey report of where the survey report indicates that minimum stocking
requirements have not been met.
d. Upon notification by the Assessor the Department of Forestry will determine
whether the tract meets minimum stocking requirements of the Forest Practices Act.
If the Department of Forestry determines that the tract does not met those
requirements, it will notify the owner and Assessor that the land is not being
managed as forest land. The Assessor will then remove the forest land designation
pursuant to ORS 321.359 and impose the additional tax pursuant to ORS 321.372

SECTION 3.3.640 DEVELOPMENT AND SITING CRITERIA.

This section contain all of the development standards for uses (unless otherwise accepted out by a use
review) and all of the siting standards for development.

1. Minimum Lot Size for the creation of new parcels shall be at least 80 acres unless approved
through a conditional use.

2. Setbacks: All buildings or structures with the exception of fences shall be set back a minimum of
thirty-five (35) feet from any road right-of-way centerline, or five (5) feet from any right-of-way
line, whichever is greater.

3. Fences, Hedges and Walls: No requirement, except for vision clearance provisions in Section
7.1.525.

4. Off-Street Parking and Loading: See Chapter VII.

5. Minimizing Impacts: In order to minimize the impact of dwellings in forest lands, all applicants
requesting a single family dwelling shall acknowledge and file in the deed record of Coos
County, a Forest Management Covenant. The Forest Management Covenant shall be filed prior
to any final County approval for a single family dwelling.

6. Riparian Vegetation Protection. Riparian vegetation within 50 feet of a wetland, stream, lake or
river, as identified on the Coastal Shoreland and Fish and Wildlife habitat inventory maps shall
be maintained except that:

III-53
a. Trees certified as posing an erosion or safety hazard. Property owner is responsible
for ensuring compliance with all local, state and federal agencies for the removal of
the tree.
b. Riparian vegetation may be removed to provide direct access for a water-dependent use.
c. Riparian vegetation may be removed in order to allow establishment of authorized
structural shoreline stabilization measures.
d. Riparian vegetation may be removed to facilitate stream or streambank clearance projects
under a port district, ODFW, BLM, Soil & Water Conservation District, or USFS stream
enhancement plan.
e. Riparian vegetation may be removed in order to site or properly maintain public utilities
and road rights-of-way; or
f. Riparian vegetation may be removed in conjunction with existing agricultural operations
(e.g. to site or maintain irrigation pumps, to limit encroaching brush, to allow harvesting
farm crops customarily grown within riparian corridors, etc.) provided that such
vegetation removal does not encroach further into the vegetation buffer except as needed
to provide an access to the water to site or maintain irrigation pumps.
g. The 50’ riparian vegetation setback shall not apply in any instance where an existing
structure was lawfully established and an addition or alteration to said structure is to be
sited not closer to the wetland, stream, lake or river than the existing structure and said
addition or alteration represents not more than 100% of the size of the existing structure’s
“footprint”.
h. Riparian removal within the Coastal Shoreland Boundary will require a conditional
use. See Special Development Considerations Coastal Shoreland Boundary.
i. The 50’ measurement shall be taken from the closest point of the ordinary high
water mark to the structure using a right angle from the ordinary high water mark.

7. All new dwellings and permanent structures and replacement dwellings and structures shall, at a
minimum, meet the following standards. The Planning Director may authorize alternative forms
of fire protection when it is determined that these standards are impracticable. The dwelling shall
be located within a fire protection district or shall be provided with residential fire protection by
contract. If the dwelling is not within a fire protection district, the applicant shall provide
evidence that the applicant has asked to be included within the nearest such district. If the
applicant is outside the rural fire protection district, the applicant shall provide evidence that they
have contacted the Department of Forestry of the proposed development.

8. Firebreak:

a. A firebreak shall be established and maintained around all structures, including decks, for
a distance of at least 30 feet in all directions.
b. This firebreak will be a primary safety zone around all structures. Vegetation within this
primary safety zone may include mowed grasses, low shrubs (less than ground floor
window height), and trees that are spaced with more than 15 feet between the crowns and
pruned to remove dead and low (less than 8 feet from the ground) branches. Accumulated
needles, limbs and other dead vegetation should be removed from beneath trees.
c. Sufficient garden hose to reach the perimeter of the primary safety zone shall be available
at all times.
d. A secondary fire break of at least 100 feet radius around the primary safety zone shall be
established and maintained.
III-54
e. Vegetation should be pruned (to at least 8 feet in height) and spaced so that fire will not
spread between the crowns of trees. Accumulated needles, limbs and other dead
vegetation should be removed from beneath trees.
f. The primary fuel-free break and secondary break areas shall be provided and maintained
on land surrounding the dwelling that is owned or controlled by the owner. A variance
application will not be required if the parcel’s configuration (shape and/or size) does not
allow the primary or secondary fire break to be met. (OR-98-01-002PL)

9. All new and replacement structures shall use non-combustible or fire resistant roofing materials,
as may be approved by the certified official responsible for the building permit.

10. If a water supply exceeding 4,000 gallons is suitable and available (within 100 feet of the
driveway or road) for fire suppression, then road access and turning space shall be provided for
fire protection pumping units to the source during fire season. This includes water supplies such
as a swimming pool, tank or natural water supply (e.g. pond).

11. The dwelling shall not be sited on a slope of greater than 40 percent.

12. If the dwelling has a chimney or chimneys, each chimney shall have a spark arrester.

13. The dwelling shall be located upon a parcel within a fire protection district or shall be provided
with residential fire protection by contract. If the dwelling is not within a fire protection district,
the applicant shall provide evidence that the applicant has asked to be included within the nearest
such district.

14. Except for private roads and bridges accessing only commercial forest uses, public roads,
bridges, private roads and driveways shall be constructed so as to provide adequate access for
firefighting equipment.

15. Access to new dwellings shall meet road and driveway standards in Chapter VII.

III-55

1. Declaration of Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions Form 1
Whereas, the undersigned
 hereinafter referred as Declarant, is owner in fee simple of the property described in
Exhibit A attached hereto and incorporated by reference herein and

Whereas, the Declarant desires to declare their intention to create certain covenants,
conditions and restrictions in order to effectuate and comply with the requirements of Oregon
Administrative Rule (OAR 660-06-027).

Declarant hereby declares that all of the property described on Exhibit A shall be held, sold, and
conveyed subject to the following covenants, conditions and restrictions:

It is not lawful to use the property described in this instrument for the construction or siting of a
dwelling or to use the acreage of the tract to qualify another tract for the construction or siting of a
dwelling.

These covenants, conditions and restrictions can be removed only and at such time as the property
described herein is no longer protected under the statewide planning goals for agricultural and
forest lands or the legislature otherwise provides by statute that these covenants, conditions and
restrictions may be removed and the authorized representative of the county or counties in which
the property subject to the covenants, conditions and restrictions are located executes and records a
release of the covenants, conditions and restrictions created by this instrument.

In witness whereof, the undersigned, being Declarant herein, has heretofore set their hand this
    day of       ,      .

State of  ___________________ )

County ____________________ )

The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this  day of
   ,  .    by
      Notary Public for Oregon
      My commission expires:

III-56

2.  For Consolidations 2

 Whereas, the undersigned        ,
hereinafter referred to as Declarant, is the owner in fee simple of the subject property described in
Exhibit “A” attached hereto and incorporated by reference herein. and

 Whereas, Oregon law required that when a “lot-of-record” dwelling is allowed for a lot or
parcel that is contiguous with one or more other lots or parcels under the same ownership
comprising a tract, then these contiguous lots and parcels shall be consolidated into a single lot or
parcel at the time the dwelling is allowed. and

 Whereas, Declarant desires to consolidate the subject property described in Exhibit “A” in
order to effectuate and comply with the requirements of Oregon law and further desires to consent
to the execution of this document prepared by the Coos County, Oregon, Planning Department.

 Now, therefore, Declarant hereby declares that all of the property described in Exhibit
“A” shall not be sold or conveyed separate and apart from any and all of the property described in
Exhibit “A” in its entirety.

 In witness whereof, the undersigned, being Declarant herein, has heretofore set their hand
this  day of     ,  .

State of   )
County of   )

The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this   day of      ,     .

By

Notary Public for

My Commission expires:

COQUILLE RIVER ESTUARY MANAGEMENT PLAN - EXCLUSIVE FARM USE
(CREMP-EFU)  SHORELAND SEGMENTS
III-57

• Exclusive Farm Use Shoreland Segments 23 (23-EFUS) and 26 (26-EFUS) shall be
managed for the continuation of farm use as defined in ORS 215.203 (2) (a) and such other
non-farm uses as are conditionally permitted in ORS 215.213. Mitigation shall also be
permitted, and designated mitigation sites shall be protected against pre-emptory uses.

• Exclusive Farm Use Shoreland Segments: 27 (27-EFUS), 28 (28-EFUS), 31(31-EFUS),
32(32-EFUS), 33 (33-EFUS), 34 (34-EFUS), 36 (36-EFUS), 37 (37-EFUS), 41 (41-
EFUS), 42 (42-EFUS), 43 (43-EFUS), 44 (44-EFUS), 47(47-EFUS), 53(53-EFUS), 55
(55-EFUS), 56 (56-EFUS), 60 (60-EFUS), 62 (62-EFUS), 73 (73-EFUS), 75 (75-EFUS)
shall be managed for the continuation of farm use as defined in ORS 215.203 (2)(a) and
such other farm uses as are conditionally permitted in ORS 215.213.

SECTION 3.3.700 DEVELOPMENT AND USE PERMITTED:

The following uses and activities are permitted outright in the in the CREMP-EFU.

1. Agriculture:

a. Farm use as defined in ORS 215.203. CREMP Policy #18 is applicable in Segments
#23 and #32. CREMP Policy #22 is applicable in Segments 23 and 26;
b. Other buildings customarily provided in conjunction with farm use. CREMP Policy
#18 is applicable in Segments 23 and 32. CREMP Policy #22 is applicable in
Segments 23 and 26.

2. Alteration, restoration, or replacement of a lawfully established dwelling. A lawfully
established dwelling is a single-family dwelling which:

a. Has intact interior walls and roof structure,
b. Has indoor plumbing consisting of a kitchen sink, toilet and bathing facilities
connected to a sanitary waste disposal system;
c. Has interior wiring for interior lights; and
d. Has a heating system.
e. A replacement dwelling may be sited on any part of the same lot or parcel. A
dwelling established under this subsection shall comply with all applicable siting
standards. However, the standards shall not be applied in a manner that prohibits the
siting of the dwelling. If the dwelling to be replaced is located on a portion of the
lot or parcel not zoned for exclusive farm use, the applicant shall execute and record
in the deed records, a deed restriction prohibiting the siting of a dwelling on that
portion of the lot or parcel. The restriction imposed shall be irrevocable unless a
statement of release is placed in the deed records. The release shall be signed by the
County and state the provisions of this paragraph regarding the replacement
dwellings have changed to allow the siting of another dwelling. The Planning
Director shall maintain a record of the lots and parcels that do not qualify for the
siting of a new dwelling under the provisions of this paragraph, including a copy of
the deed restrictions and release statements filed under this paragraph. (OR 98-01-
002PL 5/4/98)
f. Coos County does not allow conversion of mobile homes into accessory storage
buildings or uses.
III-58
g. These uses must comply with Coastal Shoreland Boundary conditional use criteria
in Policy 13.

3. Utility facility including service lines for the generation of power not for public sale. This
use is subject to CREMP Policy #18 in Segments 23 and 32 and to Policy #22 in Segments
23 and 26.

4. Temporary residence which includes a mobile home, travel trailer or recreational vehicle
used as a dwelling temporarily during construction of a permitted structure. Duration not to
exceed one (1) year subject to renewal. This use is subject to CREMP Policy #18 in
Segments 23 and 32 and to Policy #22 in Segments 23 and 26, prohibited in all other
Segments.

5. Non-structural shoreland stabilization.

6. Aggregate mining of less than 1,000 cubic yards of material or excavation of a surface area
of less than one acre for a site inventoried by the Comprehensive Plan. This use includes
excavations of sand, gravel, clay, rock or other similar materials conducted by a landowner
or tenant on the landowner or tenant’s property for the primary purpose of reconstruction or
maintenance of access roads and excavation or grading operations conducted in the process
of farming or cemetery operations, onsite road construction or other onsite construction or
nonsurface impacts of underground mines. For any operation that mines less than 1,000
cubic yards of aggregate the following conditions must be met:

a. The Planning Department must be notified at least 5 working days before
commencement of the operation.
b. Sloping after mining must not exceed a 3:1 slope.
c. The disturbed area must be reseeded with a native grass species.
d. No oil or other contaminants must be allowed in the pit.
e. Approval must be obtained from DEQ if there is any backfilling of the pit.

7. Mining for owner/tenant use. For any operation that mines less than 1,000 cubic yards of
aggregate, the conditions in Subsection 6 of this section, above, must be met. This use
under these conditions is also permitted in CREMP EFU. For any operation that mines
cumulatively more than 1,000 cubic yards but less than 5,000 cubic yards of aggregate, the
conditions in “6”, above, must be met.

SECTION 3.3.710 ADMINISTRATIVE CONDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND USE:

The following uses and their accessory uses may be allowed as administrative conditional uses in
the “CREMP-EFU” zone subject to applicable requirements in Sections 3.3.730 and 3.3.740.

1. Diking (construction and maintenance).The applicable review criteria are CREMP Policies
#14, #18, #19, #22, #23, and #27.

2. Drainage and tide-gating. The applicable review criteria are CREMP Policies #14, #18,
#19, #22, #23, and #27.

3. Fill. The applicable review criteria are listed in CREMP Policies #14, #18, #19, #22, #23,
and #27 may be applicable. The use is not permitted in Segment 26.
III-59

4. Mitigation. The applicable review criteria are found in CREMP Policies #14, #18, #19,
#22, #23 and #27. Although mitigation may be permitted, voluntary restoration not
required as mitigation would require an exception. This condition does not apply to
Segment 53. This use is not permitted in Segment 47.

5. Dredge material disposal. The applicable review criteria are found in CREMP Policies #14,
#18, #19, #20, #22, #23, and #27 are applicable. In addition, the DMD is to include
stabilization measures to control run-off and prevent sloughing. The use is not permitted in
segment 26.

6. Except on high-value farmland, dog kennels. On high-value farmland existing dog kennels
may be maintained, enhanced or expanded, subject to other provisions of this ordinance. In
addition CREMP Policies #14, #23, #27, #18, #19 and #22 may be applicable.

7. One manufactured dwelling or the temporary residential use of an existing building in
conjunction with an existing dwelling as a temporary use for the term of a hardship
suffered by the existing resident or a relative of the resident. As used in this section,
"hardship" means a medical hardship or hardship for the care of an aged or infirm
person(s). The temporary dwelling shall use the same subsurface sewage disposal system
used by the existing dwelling, if that disposal system is adequate to accommodate the
additional dwelling. If a public sanitary sewer system is used, such condition will not be
required.

a. In addition, the applicant must submit certification from a qualified physician
stating what the hardship is and that the person requiring the hardship dwelling
must live close to someone due to the hardship.
b. Within three months of the end of the hardship, the manufactured dwelling shall be
removed or demolished or, in the case of an existing building, the building shall be
removed, demolished or, returned to an allowed nonresidential use.
c. Every two years the Planning Director shall review the permit authorizing such
temporary hardship dwellings. Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
review and removal requirements also apply to such temporary hardship dwellings.
d. A temporary residence approved under this Section is not eligible for replacement
under Section 4.3.700(2) criteria.
e. As used in this section “manufactured dwelling” means a manufactured home,
mobile home, or recreational vehicle
f. In addition CREMP Policies #14, #23, #27, #18, #19, and #22 may be applicable.

8. Operations for the exploration for minerals as defined by ORS 517.750. In CREMP
Policies #14, #23, #27, #18, #19, and #22 may be applicable.

9. Room and board arrangements for a maximum of five unrelated persons in existing
dwellings. Prohibited in Floodplain (all Flood hazards).

10. Replacement dwelling to be used in conjunction with farm use if the existing dwelling has
been listed in the County inventory as historic property as defined in ORS 358.480. The
historic dwelling shall be listed on the National Register of Historic Places. In addition to
the above CREMP Policies #14, #18, #19, #22 and #27 may be applicable.

III-60
11. Air and water navigation aids. In addition to the above, CREMP Policies #14, #23, #27,
#18, #19 and #22 may be applicable.

12. Modification of historic structure where:

a. The modification is necessary to preserve, protect or enhance the original historical
character of the structure;
b. The use must be compatible with surrounding uses or may be made compatible to
surrounding uses through the imposition of conditions; and
c. A plot plan and architectural plans must be submitted for review.
d. In addition CREMP Policies #14, #23, #27, #18, #19 and #22 may be applicable.

13. Shoreland structural stabilization is subject to Natural hazards Policy 5.11 as explained in
this subsection. Coos County shall promote protection of valued property from risks
associated with critical stream bank and ocean front erosion through necessary erosion-
control stabilization measures, preferring nonstructural solutions where practical. Coos
County shall implement this strategy by making "Consistency Statements" required for
State and Federal permits (necessary for structural stream bank protection measures) that
support structural protection measures when the applicant establishes that non-structure
measures either are not feasible or inadequate to provide the necessary degree of
protection. This strategy recognizes the risks and loss of property from unabated critical
stream bank erosion, and also, that state and federal agencies regulate structural solutions.
A flood elevation certificate is required for a stabilization which will occur in the identified
flood hazard area. In addition CREMP Policies #9, #14, #23, #27, #18, #19, and #22 may
be applicable. The use is not permitted in Segment 47.

14. Land Divisions:

a. Partition and Subdivision

i. This use may be permitted subject to Policies #14, #15 and #27.
ii. Each parcel or lot shall meet the minimum lot/parcel size and development
standards for land division.
iii. Must comply with the requirements of Chapter VI for land divisions.
iv. Notice will be sent as required by Article 5.0.
v. Final Plat is a ministerial review.

SECTION 3.3.720 HEARINGS BODY CONDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND USE:

The following uses and their accessory uses may be allowed as hearings body conditional uses in
the CREMP-EFU zone subject to the applicable requirements in Section 3.3.730 and applicable
siting criteria set forth in this Article.

1. Operations conducted for mining and processing of geo-thermal resources as defined by
ORS 522.005 and oil and gas as defined by ORS 520.005 not otherwise permitted under
this rule. In addition CREMP Policies #14, #18, #19, #22, #23 and #27 may be applicable.

2. Operations for the exploration for and production of geo-thermal resources as defined by
ORS 522.005 and oil and gas as defined by ORS 520.005, including the placement and
operation of compressors, separators and other customary production equipment for an
III-61
individual well adjacent to the wellhead. In addition CREMP Policies #14, #18, #19, #22,
#23 and #27 may be applicable.

3. Operations conducted for mining, crushing or stockpiling of aggregate and other mineral
and other subsurface resources subject to ORS 215.298. For any operation that mines
cumulatively more than 1,000 cubic yards but less than 5,000 cubic yards of aggregate, the
conditions in Section 3.3.700(6) must be met along with the hearings body conditional use.
Any operation that sells greater than 5,000 cubic yards must comply with standards
established by the Department of Geology and Mineral Industries. In addition CREMP
Policies #14, #18, #19, #22, #23, and #27 may be applicable.

4. Transmission towers over 200 feet in height. In addition CREMP Policies #14, #18, #19,
#22, #23, and #27 may be applicable.

5. Commercial utility facilities for the purpose of generating power for public use by sale.

a. On other than high-value farmland a power generation facility shall not preclude
more than 20 acres from use as a commercial agricultural enterprise unless an
exception is taken pursuant to OAR 660, Division 4.
b. On high-value farmland a power generation facility shall not preclude more than 12
acres from use as a commercial agricultural enterprise unless an exception is taken
pursuant to OAR 660, Division 4.
c. In addition, CREMP Policies #14, #18, #19, #22, #23, and #27 may be applicable.

6. Private parks, playgrounds, hunting and fishing preserves and campgrounds, except on
high-value farmland. A campground is an area devoted to overnight temporary use for
vacation, recreational or emergency purposes, but not for residential purposes. A camping
site may be occupied by a tent, travel trailer, yurt or recreational vehicle. Campgrounds
authorized by this rule shall not include intensively developed recreational uses such as
swimming pools, tennis courts, retail stores or gas stations.

a. A private campground may provide yurts for overnight camping. No more than one-
third or a maximum of 10 campsites, whichever is smaller, may include a yurt. The
yurt shall be located on the ground or on a wood floor with no permanent
foundation. As used in this paragraph “yurt” means a round, domed shelter of cloth
or canvas on a collapsible frame with no plumbing, sewage disposal hookup or
internal cooking appliance.
b. On high-value farmland existing facilities may be maintained, enhanced or
expanded subject to other requirements of law.
c. In addition, a campground may be permitted in CREMP EFU. CREMP Policies
#14, #18, #19, #22, #23, and #27 may be applicable.
d. This use must comply with the following:

i. Campgrounds in private parks shall only be those allowed by OAR 660-006-
0025.
ii. Except on a lot or parcel contiguous to a lake or reservoir, campgrounds
shall not be allowed within three miles of an urban growth boundary unless
an exception is approved pursuant to ORS 197.732 and OAR Chapter 660,
Division 4.
III-62
iii. For the purpose of this section a campground is an area devoted to overnight
temporary use for vacation, recreational or emergency purposes, but not for
residential purposes and is established on a site or is contiguous to lands
with park or other outdoor natural amenity that is accessible for recreational
use by the occupants of the campground.
iv. Campsites may be occupied by a tent, travel trailer or recreational vehicle.
v. Separate sewer, water or electric service hookups shall not be provided to
individual campsites except that electrical service may be provided to yurts
allowed for by OAR 660-006-0025(4)(e)(C).
vi. Campgrounds shall not include intensively developed recreational uses such
as swimming pools, tennis courts retail stores or gas stations. Overnight
temporary use in the same campground by a camper or camper’s vehicle
shall not exceed a total of 30 days during any consecutive 6 month period.
vii. A private campground may provide yurts for overnight camping.

1. No more than one-third or a maximum of 10 campsites, whichever is
smaller, may include a yurt.
2. The yurt shall be located on the ground or no a wood floor with no
permanent foundation.
3. As used in this rule, “yurt” means a round, domed shelter of cloth or
canvas on a collapsible frame with on plumbing, sewage disposal
hook-up or internal cooking appliance.

viii. If the exterior of a campground abuts a public road then screening shall be
used.
ix. Road and parking standards of Chapter VII shall apply.

SECTION 3.3.730 CRITIERIA AND REVIEW STANDARDS FOR CONDITIONAL USE
PERMITS (BOTH ADMINISTRATIVE AND HEARINGS BODY):

A use may be allowed provided the following requirements are met:

1. Such uses will not force a significant change in accepted farm or forest practices on
surrounding lands devoted to farm or forest use.

2. Will not significantly increase the cost of accepted farm or forest practices on lands devoted to
farm or forest use.

3. Siting Standards for Dwellings and Structures in the EFU Zone.  The following siting criteria
shall apply to all dwellings, including replacement dwellings and structures in the EFU zone.
Replacement dwellings may be sited in close proximity to the existing developed homesite.
These criteria are designed to make such uses compatible with forest operations and
agriculture, to minimize wildfire hazards and risks and to conserve values found on agricultural
lands. These criteria may include setbacks from adjoining properties, clustering near or among
existing structures, siting close to existing roads, and siting on that portion of the parcel least
suited for agricultural uses, and shall be considered together with the requirements in Section
3.3.740 to identify the building site. Dwellings and structures shall be sited on the parcel so
that:

a. They have the least impact on nearby or adjoining forest or agricultural lands;
III-63
b. The siting ensures that adverse impacts on forest operations and accepted farming practices
on the tract will be minimized;
c. The amount of agricultural lands used to site access roads, service corridors, the dwelling
and structures is minimized; and
d. The risks associated with wildfires are minimized.

SECTION 3.3.740 DEVELOPMENT AND USE STANDARDS

Development Standards All dwellings and structures approved shall be sited in accordance with
this section.

1. Minimum Lot Size:  The minimum parcel size shall be at least 80 acres. For land divisions
where all resulting parcels are at least 80 acres, a conditional use is not required. However, the
applicable standards in Chapter 6must be met. [OR96-06-007PL 9/4/96]

2. Setbacks

a. Road: All buildings or structures with the exception of fences shall be setback a minimum
of thirty five (35) feet from any road right-of-way centerline or five (5) feet from any right-
of-way line, whichever is greater.
b. Firebreak: New or replacement dwellings on lots, parcels, or tracts abutting the “Forest”
zone shall establish and maintain a firebreak for a distance of at least 30 in all directions.
Vegetation within this firebreak may include mowed grasses, low shrubs (less than ground
floor window height), and trees that are spaced with more than 15 feet between the crowns
and pruned to remove dead and low (less than 8 feet from the ground) branches.
Accumulated needles, limbs, and other dead vegetation should be removed from beneath
trees.

3. Structure Height: No requirements.

4. Lot Coverage: No requirements.

5. Fences, Hedges and Walls: No requirement except for vision clearance provisions of Section
7.1.525 apply.

6. Off-street parking and Loading: See Chapter VII.

7. Minimum Road Frontage/Lot Width unless waived by the Planning Director in consultation
with the County Surveyor due to creating an unsafe or irregular configuration:

a. Within UGB’s – 50 feet
b. Outside UGB’s – 20 feet

8. Access: Access to new dwellings shall meet road design standards in Chapter VII.

9. Minimizing Impacts: in order to minimize the impacts of dwellings in agricultural lands, all
applicants requesting a nonfarm dwelling shall acknowledge and file in the deed records of
Coos County, a Farm Practices Management Easement. The Farm Practices Easement shall be
recorded in the deed records of the county prior to any final county approval for a single family
dwelling. [OR96-06-007PL 9/4/96]
III-64

10. Riparian Vegetation Protection within 50 feet of a wetland, stream, lake or river, as identified
on the Coastal Shoreland and Fish and Wildlife Habitat Inventory maps shall be maintained
except that:

a. Trees certified as posing an erosion or safety hazard. Property owner is responsible for
ensuring compliance with all local, state and federal agencies for the removal of the tree.
b. Riparian vegetation may be removed to provide direct access for a water-dependent use.
c. Riparian vegetation may be removed in order to allow establishment of authorized
structural shoreline stabilization measures.
d. Riparian vegetation may be removed to facilitate stream or streambank clearance projects
under a port district, ODFW, BLM, Soil & water Conservation District, or USFS stream
enhancement plan.
e. Riparian vegetation may be removed in order to site or properly maintain public utilities
and road right-of-way. or
f. Riparian vegetation may be removed in conjunction with existing agricultural operations
(e.g., to site or maintain irrigation pumps, to limit encroaching brush, to allow harvesting
farm crops customarily grown within riparian corridors, etc.) provided that such vegetation
removal does not encroach further into the vegetation buffer except as needed to provide an
access to the water to site or maintain irrigation pumps.
g. The 50 foot riparian vegetation setback shall not apply in any instance where an existing
structure was lawfully established and an addition or alteration to said structure is to be
sited not closer to the wetland, stream, lake or river than the existing structure and said
addition or alteration represents not more than 100% of the size of the existing structure’s
“footprint”. (ORD 92-05-009PL)
h. Riparian removal within the Coastal Shoreland Boundary will require a conditional use.
See Special Development Considerations Coastal Shoreland Boundary.
i. The 50’ measurement shall be taken from the ordinary high water mark using a right angle
from the ordinary high water mark.
j. Road and driveway standards found in Chapter VII shall apply to new and replacement
development.

III-65
DECLARATION OF COVENANTS, CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS

 Whereas, the undersigned                                                ,
hereinafter referred to as Declarant, is the owner in fee simple of the subject property described in
Exhibit “A” attached hereto and incorporated by reference herein. and

 Whereas, pursuant to Oregon law a “lot-of-record” dwelling has been authorized for
property described in Exhibit “A”. and

Whereas, Oregon law requires that when a “lot-of-record is allowed for a lot or parcel that
is contiguous with one or more other lots or parcels under the same ownership comprising a tract,
then these contiguous lots and parcels shall be consolidated into a single lot or parcel at the time
the dwelling is allowed. and

Whereas, Declarant desires to consolidate the subject property described in Exhibit “A” in
order to effectuate and comply with the requirements of Oregon law and further desires to consent
to the execution of this document prepared by the Coos County, Oregon, Planning Department.

Now, therefore, Declarant hereby declares that all of the property described in Exhibit
“A” shall not be sold or conveyed separate and apart from any and all of the property described in
Exhibit “A” in its entirety.

In witness whereof, the undersigned, being Declarant herein, has heretofore set their hand
this               day of                         ,            .

State of                )
County of              )

The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this          day ________________,

____________________________. By: ____________________________________________
        Notary Public for Oregon
        My commission expires: ________________________

CREMP Aquatic Units - The CREMP zoning districts shall have the same boundaries as the
Coquille River Estuary Management Plan unit boundaries and shall be so designated.
III-66

COQUILLE RIVER ESTUARY MANAGEMENT PLAN - CONSERVATION AQUATIC
UNITS (CREMP-CA)

• Conservation Aquatic Unit 8 (8-CA) shall be managed to conserve and enhance the
aquatic resources of the main river channel, while allowing such minor alterations as are
necessary for shallow draft navigation.

• Conservation Aquatic Unit 12 (12-CA) shall be managed to conserve, and enhance the
natural resources of these intertidal flats for the purposes of estuarine production.

• Conservation Aquatic Units 15 (15-CA) shall be managed to conserve and enhance the
natural resources of this intertidal area while allowing for the development of recreational
docking or a small marina, including dredging as necessary.

• Conservation Aquatic Unit 17 (17-CA) shall be managed to conserve and enhance the
natural resources of this intertidal area while allowing for the continuation of recreational
and commercial docking facilities and maintenance dredging as necessary.

• Conservation Aquatic Unit 20 (20-CA) shall be managed to conserve and enhance the
natural resources of this intertidal marsh for the purposes of estuarine production, while
allowing the continuation of existing grazing use.

• Conservation Aquatic Unit 21 (21-CA) shall be managed to conserve and enhance to
aquatic resources of the main river channel and fringing intertidal areas, while allowing
such minor alterations as are necessary for the continuation of recreational boating and
other shallow draft navigation. Removal of snags, old pilings and other obstructions from
the river, and bank stabilization shall also be encouraged.

• Conservation Aquatic Unit 22 (22-CA) shall be managed to conserve and enhance the
natural resources, of these fringing intertidal marshes for the purposes of estuarine
production.

• Conservation Aquatic Unit 23 (23-CA) shall be managed to conserve and enhance the
natural resources of Randolph Slough for the purposes of estuarine production.

• Conservation Aquatic Unit 24 (24-CA) managed to conserve and enhance the natural
resources of this small intertidal marsh for the purposes of estuarine production.

• Conservation Aquatic Unit 25 (25-CA) managed to conserve and enhance the natural
resources of the tidal portion of Bear Creek for the purposes of estuarine production.

SECTION 3.3.800 DEVELOPMENT AND USE PERMITTED:

The following uses and activities are permitted outright in the CREMP-CA as listed below.

1. Aquaculture is permitted in all Conservation Aquatic Units subject to CREMP Policies #17
and #18 where consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of this
management unit and does not involve:
III-67

a. Dredge;
b. Fill;
c. Other estuarine alteration other than incidental dredging for harvest of benthic
species;
d. Removing in-water structures such as stakes or racks (commercial, not
archaeological stakes or racks) is allowed; or
e. Where aquaculture requires dredging or fill, or other alteration of the estuary is
subject to CREMP Policy #4a.

2. Bridge support structures and dredging necessary for their installation are permitted in
Conservation Aquatic Units 21 and 25 (see conditional uses for Conservation Aquatic
Units 8, 15 and 17). The use and/or activity is subject to CREMP Polices #6, #17 and #18
and shall only be where consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the
purposes of this management unit. Please note new bridge crossings are not permitted.

3. Utilities – Low intensity utilities:

a. Aquatic Units 15, 17, 22, 23, 24 and 25 allow low intensity utilities as permitted
and are not subject to any polices or review.
b. Aquatic Units 8, 12, 20 and 21 permit low intensity utilities subject to CREMP
Policies #17 and #18 and are only permitted where consistent with the resource
capabilities of the area and the purposes of the management unit.
c. High intensity utilities are subject to conditional use review.

4. Vegetative shoreland stabilization is permitted in Conservation Aquatic Shoreland Unit 8
only where consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of this
management unit.

5. Dikes are permitted in Conservation Aquatic Units 17 only where found consistent with the
resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of the management unit. Associated new
dredging only permitted as necessary for boat marinas without jetty or dredged channel.
Dikes in this aquatic unit are subject to CREMP Polices #17 and #18.

6. Navigational Structures Aids are permitted in Conservation Aquatic Units 12, 15, 17, 20,
21 and 22.

7. Research and education observation is permitted in all Conservation Aquatic Units.

8. Restoration:

a. Passive Restoration is permitted in all Conservation Aquatic Units except 8.
b. Active Restoration is permitted in all Conservation Aquatic Units except 8 unless
the restoration is for mitigation subject to CREMP Polices #17 and #18. All other
Conservation Aquatic Units permits active restoration where found consistent with
the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of the management unit. This
activity is subject to CREMP Polices #17, #18 and #22b.

III-68
9. Mitigation is permitted in all Conservation Aquatic Units where found consistent with the
resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of the management unit. This activity is
subject to CREMP Polices #17 and #18.

10. New dredging is permitted in Conservation Aquatic Units 8, 15 and 17 where found
consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of the management
unit and only as necessary for boat marinas without jetty or dredged channel. This activity
is subject to CREMP Policies #17 and #18.

11. Protection of habitat nutrient, fish, wildlife and aesthetics is permitted in all Conservation
Aquatic Units.

SECTION 3.3.810 ADMINISTRATIVE CONDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND USE:

The following uses and activities are permitted under an administrative conditional use permit
CREMP-CA.

1. Commercial Water-dependent only allowed in Conservation Aquatic Units 15, 17 and 21
subject to CREMP polices #17 and #18 and the following review criteria:

a. Only permitted where occupying water surface by means other than fill.
b. Only permitted where consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the
purposes of the management unit.

2. Docks and Moorage only allowed in Conservation Aquatic Units 8, 12,15, 17, 21 and 23
subject to CREMP policies #10, #17 and #18 and the following review criteria:

a. Only permitted where occupying water surface by means other than fill.
b. Only permitted where consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the
purposes of the management unit.

3. Industrial Water-dependent only allowed in Conservation Aquatic Units 15, 17 and 21
subject to CREMP policies #17 and #18 and the following review criteria:

a. Only permitted where occupying water surface by means other than fill.
b. Only permitted where consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the
purposes of the management unit.

4. Bridge Crossing are subject are allowed in Conservation Aquatic Units 8, 17, 21, 23 and
25. The use is subject to CREMP Polices #6, #17 and #18 and shall only be where
consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of the management
unit.

5. Bridge support structures and dredging necessary for their installation is permitted subject
to conditional use approval only in Conservation Aquatic Units 8 and 15 (see permitted
uses for units 21, 23 and 25). The use and/or activity is subject to CREMP Polices #6, #17
and #18 and shall only be where consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and
the purposes of the management unit.

III-69
6. In-water log dump, storage and sorting are allowed in Conservation Aquatic Units 8, 17
and 21 only where consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of
the management unit.

7. Marinas are allowed in Conservation Aquatic Units 8, 12, 15, 17 and 21subject to CREMP
Polices #17 and #18 and the following review criteria:

a. Where consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of the
management unit; and
b. Marinas only permitted without jetties or dredged channels.

8. Mining, mineral extraction, including dredging necessary for mineral extraction allowed in
Conservation Aquatic Units 21subject to CREMP Polices #17 and #18. These uses are only
allowed upon finding it is consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the
purposes of the management unit.

9. Recreation:

a. High intensity recreation is only allowed in Conservation Aquatic Units 8, 12, 15,
17, 21 and 23 subject to CREMP Polices #17 and #18 and the following criteria:

i. Where consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes
of the management unit; and
ii. Provided recreation is water-dependent.

b. Low intensity recreation is only allowed in Conservation Aquatic Units 8, 15, 17,
21 and 23 subject to CREMP Polices #17 and #18 and the following criteria:

i. Where consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes
of the management unit; and
ii. Provided recreation is water-dependent.

10. Utilities.  High intensity utilities are allowed in all Conservation Aquatic Units subject to
CREMP Polices 17 and 18. The use must be found consistent with the resource capabilities
of the area and the purposes of the management unit.

11. Shoreline Stabilization:

a. Riprap is allowed in Conservation Aquatic Units 8, 12, 15, 17, 21, 22, 23 and 25
subject to CREMP Policies #9, #17 and #18. This activity must be found consistent
with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of the management unit.
b. Vegetative shoreline stabilization is allowed in Conservation Aquatic Units 12, 15,
17, 21, 22, 23, 24 and 25 subject to CREMP Policies #9, #17 and #18. This activity
must be found consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes
of the management unit. (Conservation Aquatic Units 8 permits this outright)
c. Bulkheads are allowed in Conservation Aquatic Units 15, 17, 21, 22, 23 and 25
when found consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of
the management unit and subject to CREMP Polices #9, #17 and #18.

12. Dikes:
III-70

a. New

i. Conditional permitted in Conservation Aquatic Units 8 and 12 where found
consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of the
management unit. Associated new dredging only permitted as necessary for
boat marinas without jetty or dredged channel. This activity is subject to
CREMP Polices #5, #6, #8, #17, #18 and #20.
ii. Conditional permitted in Conservation Aquatic Units 21 where found
consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of the
management unit. This activity is subject to CREMP Polices #5, #6, #8, #17,
#18 and #20.

b. Repairs and maintenance are conditionally permitted in Conservation Aquatic Units
8, 12, 21 and 23 where found consistent with the resource capabilities of the area
and the purposes of the management unit. This activity is subject to CREMP
Polices #5, #6, #8, #17, #18 and #20.
c. Installation of tide gates in existing functional dikes are conditional permitted in
Conservation Aquatic Units 8, 12, 17, 21 and 23 where found consistent with the
resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of the management unit. This
activity is subject to CREMP Polices #5, #6, #8, #17, #18 and #20.

13. Navigational Structures:

a. Aids are conditional permitted in Conservation Aquatic Unit 8 only where found
consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of the
management unit.
b. Minor Navigation Improvements are conditional permitted in Conservation Aquatic
Units 8, 15, 17 and 21 only where found consistent with the resource capabilities of
the area and the purposes of the management unit. This activity is subject to
CREMP Polices #5, #6, #8, #17, #18 and #20.

14. Pilings/dolphins are conditionally permitted in Conservation Aquatic Units 8, 15, 17, 21
and 23 where found consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of
the management unit. Pilings/dolphins shall be allowed if necessary to support recreational
uses. This activity is subject to CREMP Policies #17 and #18.

15. Dredging:

a. New dredging is conditional permitted in Conservation Aquatic Unit 21 where
found consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of the
management unit and only as necessary for boat marinas without jetty or dredged
channel. This activity is subject to CREMP Policies #5, #8, #17 and #20.
b. Maintenance dredging of existing functional tide gates and associated drainage
channels is conditionally permitted in all Conservation Aquatic Units except
management unit 20. This activity is can only be conditionally permitted where
consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of this
management unit subject to CREMP Policies #17 and #18.
c. To repair dikes and tide gates is conditionally permitted in all Conservation Aquatic
Units except management unit 20.  This activity is can only be conditionally
III-71
permitted where consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the
purposes of this management unit and subject to CREMP Policies #5, #8, #17, #18
and #20.

16. Fill including for the purposes of new dikes is conditionally permitted in Conservation
Aquatic Units 8, 12, 15, 17 and 21. This activity is can only be conditionally permitted
where consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of this
management unit and subject to CREMP Policies #5, #6, #8, #17, #18 and #20.

17. Temporary alterations are conditionally permitted in Conservation Aquatic Unit 8 only
where consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of this
management unit and subject to CREMP Policies #5a, #17 and #18.

18. Waste water/storm water discharge is conditionally permitted in Conservation Aquatic
Units 8 and 17. This activity is can only be conditionally permitted:

a. Where consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of this
management unit;
b. Storm water/waste water outfalls only permitted subject to DEQ/EPA approval;
c. Meets the Coos County Zoning and Land Development Ordinance definition
description of “facility”; and
d. Must meet CREMP Policies #17, #18 and #25.

19. Research and educational observation structures are conditionally permitted in
Conservation Aquatic Unit 8 and 12 only where consistent with the resource capabilities of
the area and the purposes of this management unit. This activity is subject to CREMP
Policies #5d, #17 and #18.

COQUILLE RIVER ESTUARY MANAGEMENT PLAN - NATURAL AQUATIC UNIT
(CREMP-NA)

• Aquatic Unit 10 (10-NA) shall be managed to protect and enhance the natural resources of
the Bandon Marsh as a wildlife refuge.

• Aquatic Units 11 (11-NA), 13 (13-NA) and 16 (16-NA) shall be managed to protect and
enhance the natural resources of these intertidal marshes for the purposes of estuarine
production.

SECTION 3.3.900 DEVELOPMENT AND USE PERMITTED:

The following uses and activities are permitted outright in the CREMP-NA as listed below.

1. Research and Educational Observation are permitted in all Natural Aquatic Units.
2. Passive restoration is permitted in all Natural Aquatic Units.
3. Mitigation only is permitted in Natural Aquatic Unit 10 where consistent with the resource
capabilities of the area and the purposes of this management unit. Subject to CREMP
Policies #17 and #18.
4. Protection of habitat, nutrient, fish, wildlife and aesthetics is permitted in all Natural
Aquatic Units.

III-72
SECTION 3.3.910 ADMINISTRATIVE CONDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND USE:

The following uses and activities are permitted under an administrative conditional use permit
CREMP-NA.

1. Aquaculture is conditionally permitted in all Natural Aquatic Units subject to CREMP
Policies #17 and #18 where consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the
purposes of this management unit and does not involve:

a. Dredge;
b. Fill;
c. Other estuarine alteration other than incidental dredging for harvest of benthic
species;
d. Removing in-water structures such as stakes or racks (commercial, not
archaeological stakes or racks) is allowed; or
e. Where aquaculture requires dredging or fill, or other alteration of the estuary is
subject to CREMP Policy #4a.

2. Shoreline Stabilization:

a. Riprap for shoreline stabilization is conditionally permitted in management unit 16
only where consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of
this management unit. This use is subject to CREMP Polices #9, #17 and #18.
b. Vegetative shoreline stabilization is conditionally permitted in all Natural Aquatic
Units where consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of
this management unit. This activity is subject to CREMP Policies #9, #17 and #18.
c. Bulkheads for shoreline stabilization conditionally permitted in management unit 16
only where consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of
this management unit. This use is subject to CREMP Polices #9, #17 and #18.

3. Dikes, fill, repair and maintenance related to dikes are not permitted in Natural Aquatic
Unit 16 except when a reconfigured or repaired dike is part of a restoration project. Active
restoration projects that include reconfigured or repaired dikes will be permitted if related
to protection of upland uses and activities.

4. Navigational structures are conditionally permitted in management unit 13 only where
consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of this management
unit. This use is subject to CREMP Polices #17 and #18.

5. Active Restoration is conditionally permitted in all Natural Aquatic Units where consistent
with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of this management unit. This
use is subject to CREMP Polices #17, #18 and # 22B.

6. Fill (including New Dikes) are not permitted in Natural Aquatic Unit 16 except when a
reconfigured or repaired dike is part of a restoration project. Active restoration projects that
include reconfigured or repaired dikes will be permitted if related to protection of upland
uses and activities.

COQUILLE RIVER ESTUARY MANAGEMENT PLAN - DEVELOPMENT AQUATIC
UNIT (CREMP-DA)
III-73

• Aquatic Unit 14 (14-DA) shall be managed for dredging and bulk heading as necessary to
develop a dock for bulk material shipping.

• Aquatic Unit 18 (18-DA) shall be managed for the development of docking, boat building
and repair and similar water dependent uses, including dredging and fill as necessary.

• Aquatic Unit 19 (19-DA) shall be managed for the dredging and fill as necessary to
develop a major recreational marina with ancillary services and facilities.

SECTION 3.3.1000 DEVELOPMENT AND USE PERMITTED:

The following uses and activities are permitted outright in the CREMP-DA as listed below:

1. Water-Dependent commercial:

a. In Development Aquatic Unit 14 this use is only permitted where consistent with
the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of this management unit.
b. In Development Aquatic Unit 18 this use is only permitted where occupying water
surface by means other than fill and where consistent with the resource capabilities
of the area and the purposes of this management unit.
c. In Development Aquatic Unit 19 this uses is permitted outright.

2. Water-Dependent industrial is permitted in Development Aquatic Units 14 and 18.

3. Bridge crossing support structures and dredging necessary for their installation in
Development Aquatic Unit 18 this use is only permitted where consistent with the resource
capabilities of the area and the purposes of this management unit. This use is subject to
CREMP Policies #6, #17, and #18.

4. In-Water Log-Dump/Storage/Sorting is permitted in Development Aquatic Units 14 and
18.

5. Marinas are permitted in Development Aquatic Units 18 and 19.

6. Low-Intensity utilities are permitted in Development Aquatic Units 14 and 18. (see
conditional uses for Development Aquatic Unit 19).

7. Restoration is permitted:

a. As passive in all Development Aquatic Units.
b. As activity restoration of fish and wildlife habitat or water quality and estuarine
enhancement with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of this
management unit. This use is subject to CREMP Policies #17, #18 and #22b.

8. Mitigation only is permitted in all Development Aquatic Units where consistent with the
resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of this management unit. This use is
subject to CREMP Policies #17, and #18.

9. Research and Educational Observation is permitted in all Development Aquatic Units.
III-74

10. Protection of habitat, nutrient, fish, wildlife and aesthetics is permitted in all Development
Aquatic Units.

11. Temporary alterations are permitted in Development Aquatic Unit 14 where consistent with
the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of this management unit. This activity
is subject to CREMP Policies #17, and #18.

SECTION 3.3.1000 ADMINISTRATIVE CONDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND USE:

The following uses and activities are permitted under an administrative conditional use permit
CREMP-DA.

1. Aquaculture is conditionally permitted in all Development Aquatic Units subject to
CREMP Policies #17 and #18 where consistent with the resource capabilities of the area
and the purposes of this management unit and is allowed whether dredging or fill or other
alteration of the estuary is required for harvest of benthic species or removable in-water
structures such as stakes or racks (commercial, not archaeological stakes or racks) is
subject to CREMP Policy #4a.

2. Water-Related commercial is conditionally permitted in all Development Aquatic Units
where consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of this
management unit. Fill not permitted for non-water-dependent uses. This use is subject to
CREMP Policies #17 and #18.

3. Non-Water Dependent/Water Related is conditional permitted in Development Aquatic
Unit 19 where consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of this
management unit. Fill is not permitted for non-water-dependent uses. This use is subject to
CREMP Policies #17 and #18.

4. Docks and Moorage are conditionally permitted in all Development Aquatic Units subject
to CREMP Policies #17 and #18 where consistent with the resource capabilities of the area
and the purposes of this management unit.

5. Water-Related Industrial is conditionally permitted in Development Aquatic Units 14 and
18 where consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of this
management unit. Fill is not permitted for non-water-dependent uses. This use is subject to
CREMP Policies #17 and #18.

6. Bridge Crossings are conditionally permitted in the Development Aquatic Unit 18 where
consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of this management
unit. This use is subject to CREMP Policies #36, #17, and #18.

7. Recreation both high and low intensity are conditionally permitted in all Development
Aquatic Units, provided recreation is water-dependent, and where consistent with the
resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of this management unit. This use is
subject to CREMP Policies #17, and #18.

8. Utilities:

III-75
a. Low-Intensity utilities are conditionally permitted in Development Aquatic Unit 19
where consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of this
management unit. This use is subject to CREMP Policies #17, and #18.
b. High-Intensity utilities are conditionally permitted in all Development Aquatic
Units where consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of
this management unit. This use is subject to CREMP Policies #17, and #18.

9. Shoreline Stabilization:

a. Riprap is conditionally permitted in all Development Aquatic Units where
consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of this
management unit. This activity is subject to CREMP Policies #9, #17, and #18.
b. Vegetative shoreline stabilization is conditionally permitted in all Development
Aquatic Units where consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the
purposes of this management unit. This activity is subject to CREMP Policies #9,
#17, and #18.
c. Bulkheads are conditionally permitted:

i. In Development Aquatic Units 14 and 19 where consistent with the resource
capabilities of the area and the purposes of this management unit. This
activity is subject to CREMP Policies #9, #17, and #18.
ii. In Development Aquatic Unit 18 where consistent with the resource
capabilities of the area and the purposes of this management unit. This
activity is subject to CREMP Policies #39, #17, and #18.

10. New Dikes are conditionally permitted:

a. In Development Aquatic Unit 14 where consistent with the resource capabilities of
the area and the purposes of this management unit. New dredging only permitted as
necessary for boat marinas without jetty or dredged channel. This activity is subject
to CREMP Policies #5, #6, #8, #17, #18 and #20.
b. In Development Aquatic Unit 18 and 19 where consistent with the resource
capabilities of the area and the purposes of this management unit. This activity is
subject to CREMP Policies #5, #6, #8, #17, #18 and #20.

11. Dredging is conditionally permitted:

a.  New dredging only permitted as necessary for boat marinas without jetty or
dredged channel in all Development Aquatic Units where consistent with the
resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of this management unit. This
activity is subject to CREMP Policies #5, #8, #17, #18 and #20.
b. Only maintenance dredging of tide gates is permitted in all Development Aquatic
Units where consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of
this management unit. This activity is subject to CREMP Policies #17, and #18.
c. To repair dikes and tide gates in all Development Aquatic Units where consistent
with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of this management unit.
This activity is subject to CREMP Policies #5, #8, #17, #18 and #20.

12. Navigational Structures and Minor Navigation Improvements are conditionally permitted in
all Development Aquatic Units where consistent with the resource capabilities of the area
III-76
and the purposes of this management unit. This activity is subject to CREMP Policies #5,
#8, #17, #18 and #20.

13. Water-dependent commercial enterprises and activities are conditionally permitted in all
Development Aquatic Units where consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and
the purposes of this management unit. This activity is subject to CREMP Policies #5, #8,
#17, #18 and #20.

14. Pilings/dolphins shall be allowed if necessary to support recreational in all Development
Aquatic Units where consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes
of this management unit. This activity is subject to CREMP Policies #17 and #18.

15. Dredge material disposal (in-water) is only conditionally permitted in Development
Aquatic Unit 18 where consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the
purposes of this management unit. This activity is subject to CREMP Policies #5, #8, #17,
#18, and #20.

16. Fill (including New Dikes) is conditionally permitted in all Development Aquatic Unit
where consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of this
management unit. This activity is subject to CREMP Policies #5, #8, #17, #18, and #20.

17. Temporary alterations are conditionally permitted in Development Aquatic Unit 19 where
consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of this management
unit. This activity is subject to CREMP Policies #5a, #17, and #18.

18. Waste water/storm water discharge is conditionally permitted in Development Aquatic
Units 14 and 19. This activity is can only be conditionally permitted:

a. Where consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of this
management unit;
b. Storm water/waste water outfalls only permitted subject to DEQ/EPA approval;
c. Meets the Coos County Zoning and Land Development Ordinance definition
description of “facility”; and
d. Must meet CREMP Policies #17, #18 and #25.

19. Research and educational observation structure is conditionally permitted in Development
Aquatic Units 14 and 19 where consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the
purposes of this management unit. This activity is subject to CREMP Policies #17 and #18.

III-77
VOLUME III (COQUILLE RIVER ESTUARY)
POLICIES

• Policy #1: Estuary Classification ........................................................................................................................... 80
• Policy #2: General Schedule Of Permitted Uses And General Use Priorities  ....................................................... 80
• Policy #3: Use Of "Coquille River Estuary Special Considerations Map" As The Basis For Special Policies
Implementation ........................................................................................................................................................... 84
• Policy #4: Resource Capability Consistency And Impact Assessment ................................................................. 86
• Policy #4a: Deferral Of (I) Resource Capability Consistency Findings And (Ii) Resource Impact Assessments  .... 87
• Policy #5: Estuarine Fill And Removal .................................................................................................................. 89
• Policy #5a: Temporary Alterations ...................................................................................................................... 90
• Policy #5b: Dredging To Repair Existing Functional Dikes & Tidegates  ............................................................... 91
• Policy #5c: New And Expanded Log Storage ........................................................................................................ 91
• Policy #5d: Research And Educational Observations .......................................................................................... 92
• Policy #6: Fill In Conservation And Natural Management Units .......................................................................... 92
• Policy #7: Maintenance Dredging Of Authorized Channel .................................................................................. 93
• Policy #8: Estuarine Mitigation Requirements (See Also Policies #21, #22 And #22a)  ....................................... 93
• Policy #9: Solutions To Erosion And Flooding Problems ...................................................................................... 94
• Policy #10: Proliferation Of Single-Purpose Docks And Piers .............................................................................. 95
• Policy #11: Authority Of Other Agencies ............................................................................................................. 95
• Policy #12: Removal Of Old Pilings And Snags ..................................................................................................... 96
• Policy #12a: (Reserved) ....................................................................................................................................... 96
• Policy #12b: (Reserved) ....................................................................................................................................... 96
• Policy #12c: Future Studies.................................................................................................................................. 96
• Policy #12d: (Reserved) ....................................................................................................................................... 96
• Policy #13: Overall Use Priorities Within Coastal Shorelands ............................................................................. 96
• Policy #14: General Policy On Uses Within Rural Coastal Shorelands ................................................................. 97
• Policy #15: Land Divisions Within Rural Shorelands ............................................................................................ 98
• Policy #16: Protection Of Sites Suitable To Water-Dependent Uses; And Special Allowance For New Non-Water-
Dependent Uses In "Urban Water-Dependent (Uw) Units Which Are Suitable For Water-Dependent Uses" (Wd) .. 98
• Policy #16a: Rural, Urban, And Unincorporated Communities Use Standards  ................................................. 100
• Policy #16b: Potential Sites Suitable For Water-Dependent Uses..................................................................... 100
• Policy #16c: Protection Of Sites Suited To Water-Dependent Uses In Future Urbanizable Areas .................... 101
• Policy #17: Protection Of “Major Marshes" And Significant "Wildlife Habitats" In Coastal Shorelands  ........... 101
• Policy #18: Protection Of "Historical, Cultural And Archaeological Sites"  ......................................................... 102
• Policy #19: Management Of "Wet-Meadow" Wetlands Within Coastal Shorelands ........................................ 103
• Policy #20: Dredged Material Disposal Sites ..................................................................................................... 104
• Policy #20a: Dredged Material Disposal Guidelines .......................................................................................... 105
III-78
• Policy #20b: Intertidal Dredged Material Disposal ............................................................................................ 105
• Policy #20c: Dmd Planning Period ..................................................................................................................... 106
• Policy #21: Mitigation And Restoration Sites .................................................................................................... 106
• Policy #22: Mitigation Sites: Protection Against Pre-Emptory Uses .................................................................. 106
• Policy #22a: Acquisition Or Protection Of Mitigation/Restoration And Dredged Material Disposal Sites  ........ 107
• Policy 22b: Limiting Dredge And Fill As Estuarine Restoration  .......................................................................... 108
• Policy #23: Riparian Vegetation And Streambank Protection ........................................................................... 108
• Policy #24: Special Forest Practice Regulations In Coastal Shorelands  ............................................................. 109
• Policy #25: Waste Water/Storm Water Discharge ............................................................................................ 109
• Policy #26: Agricultural Drainage Facilities ........................................................................................................ 109
• Policy #27: Floodplain Protection Within Coastal Shorelands ........................................................................... 110
• Policy #27a: Mass Movement ............................................................................................................................ 110
• Policy #28: Recognition Of Statewide Planning Goal #3 (Agricultural Lands) Requirements For Rural Lands Within
The Coastal Shorelands Boundary ............................................................................................................................. 110
• Policy #28a: (Reserved) ..................................................................................................................................... 110
• Policy #29: Restricting Actions In Beach And Dune Areas That Are "Unsuitable For Development"  ................ 110
• Policy #30: Restricting Actions In Beach And Dune Areas With "Limited Development Suitability"; And Special
Consideration For Sensitive Beach And Dune Resources .......................................................................................... 112
• Policy #31: (Reserved) ....................................................................................................................................... 114
• Policy #32: Boat Ramps ..................................................................................................................................... 114
• Policy #33: Water-Based Recreation ................................................................................................................. 114
• Policy #33a:  Bandon Waterfront Project And Waterfront Communities ......................................................... 114
• Policy #33b: (Reserved) ..................................................................................................................................... 114
• Policy #34: Recognition Of Statewide Planning Goal #4 (Forest Lands) Requirements For Forest Lands Within The
Coastal Shorelands Boundary .................................................................................................................................... 114
• Policy #35: Plan Implementation ....................................................................................................................... 115
• Policy #36:  Plan Update .................................................................................................................................... 115
• Policy #37:  County Plan Revisions And Amendments (Does Not Apply To Provisions Affecting City Management
Units): Public Hearing Procedure .............................................................................................................................. 116
• Policy #38:  Grandfathering Of Existing Nonconforming Uses And Structures  ................................................. 116
• Policy #39:  Citizen Involvement ........................................................................................................................ 116
• Policy #40:  Conflict Resolution ......................................................................................................................... 116
• Policy #41:  Maintenance Of Inventories And Factual Base .............................................................................. 117
• Policy #42: Special Allowance For Accessory Housing ....................................................................................... 117
• Policy #43:  Interpretation Of Coastal Shorelands Boundary ............................................................................ 118
• Policy #44:  Planned Unit Development Or Density Transfer Development On Parcels Which Are Partially Within
The Coastal Shorelands Boundary ............................................................................................................................. 118
• Policy #45:  (Reserved) ...................................................................................................................................... 119
• Policy #46:  (Reserved) ...................................................................................................................................... 119
III-79
• Policy #47:  Goal #5 Sites ................................................................................................................................... 119

III-80
• Policy #1: Estuary Classification

Local governments shall officially recognize the Coquille River Estuary as a "Shallow Draft
Development Estuary", consistent with the overall Oregon Estuary Classification
(OAR 660-17-010(3), as amended). Further, the estuary management plan's allowed uses and
activities are, and must remain, consistent with the "shallow-draft development" designation
and the estuarine management unit requirements of Goal #16.

This strategy recognizes that Statewide Planning Goals and Oregon Administrative Rules limit the
maximum allowable development of Oregon estuaries.

• Policy #2: General Schedule of Permitted Uses and General Use Priorities

Local governments shall restrict estuarine development or alteration so as to be equal to, or
less intensive than uses and activities that are allowed, or may be allowed, pursuant to
Statewide Planning Goal #16 and the Oregon Administrative Rule classifying Oregon estuaries
(OAR 600-17-000 as amended June, 1981).

I. Local government's determination regarding estuarine management unit designation as well
as respective uses and activities permitted reflect priorities for estuarine uses and activities
necessary to:

a. Ensure compatibility with the requirements of Statewide Planning Goal #16 and the
Administrative Rule classifying Oregon estuaries (OAR 600-17-000 as amended
June, 1981).

b. Maintain the integrity of the estuarine ecosystem. This policy shall be implemented
by limiting uses and activities within natural, conservation and development
estuarine management units so that such uses and activities are not more intensive
than those following:

MANAGEMENT UNIT: NATURAL

A. Uses and activities listed below may be allowed in management units (Statewide
Planning Goal #16) without special assessment of the resource capabilities of the
area, but subject to special conditions and other policies set forth elsewhere in this
Plan. Note: existing man-made features may be retained, maintained and protected
if existing on October 7, 1977.

1. Undeveloped low-intensity, water-dependent recreation

2. Research and educational observations

3. Navigational aids (such as beacons and buoys)

4. Protection of habitat, nutrient, fish, wildlife and aesthetic

5. Passive restoration measures

6. Bridge crossings
III-81

7. Historical, archaeological and cultural resources

8. Research and educational observation structures

9. Dredging necessary for on-site maintenance of existing functional tidegates
and associated drainage channels

B. Uses and activities listed below may be allowed in Natural Management Units
when it is established that such are "consistent with the resource capabilities of the
area and purposes of management units" (pursuant to "linkage" findings in this
Plan) but also subject to special conditions and other policies set forth elsewhere in
this Plan

1. Aquaculture which does not involve dredge or fill or other estuarine
alteration other than incidental dredging for harvest of benthic species or
removable in-water structures such as stakes or racks(commercial, not
archaeological stakes or racks) - is subject to Policy #4a.

2. Communication facilities

3. Active restoration of fish and wildlife habitat or water quality and estuarine
enhancement

4. Riprap (see Policy #9)

5. Placement of low-water bridges (see Policy #6)

6. Boat ramps for public use where no dredging or fill for navigational access
is needed

7. Installation of tidegates in existing functional dikes

8. Temporary alterations

9. Pipelines, cables and utility crossings, including incidental dredging
necessary for their installation

10. Bridge crossing support structures and dredging necessary for their
installation

MANAGEMENT UNIT:  CONSERVATION

A.) Uses and activities listed below may be allowed in Conservation Management Units
(Statewide Planning Goal #16) without special assessment of the resource
capabilities of the area, but subject to special conditions and other policies set forth
elsewhere in this Plan.

1. All uses permitted outright in Natural Management Units, except for
"temporary alterations"
III-82

B) Uses and activities listed below may be allowed in Conservation Management Units
when it is established that such are "consistent with the resource capabilities of the
area and purposes of management units" (pursuant to "linkage" findings in this
Plan) but also subject to special conditions and other policies set forth elsewhere in
this Plan

1. High-intensity, water-dependent recreation including boat ramps, marinas
and new dredging for boat ramps and marinas.

2. Minor navigational improvements

3. Mining and mineral extraction, including dredging necessary for mineral
extraction

4. Water-dependent uses requiring occupation of the water surface by means
other than fill

5. Waste water/storm water discharge meeting state and federal water quality
standards

6. Temporary alterations

7. Aquaculture requiring dredge or fill or other alteration of the estuary

8. Active restoration for purposes other than those listed in A-1 above

MANAGEMENT UNIT:  DEVELOPMENT

A. Uses and activities listed below may be allowed in Development Management Units
without special assessment of the resource capabilities of the area, but subject to
special conditions and other policies set forth elsewhere in this Plan.

1. Navigation and water-dependent commercial enterprises and activities

2. Water-dependent commercial and industrial uses consistent with a shallow-
draft estuary, as defined herein.

3. Water transport channels where dredging may be necessary

4. Dredge or fill as allowed elsewhere in Goal #16 (see Policies #5 and #7)

5. Navigational structures other than those permitted in Natural and
Conservation Management Units

6. Marinas

7. Water storage areas where needed for products used in, or resulting from
industries, commerce, and recreation

III-83
8. Flow-lane disposal of dredge material monitored to assure that estuarine
sedimentation is consistent with the resource capabilities and purposes of
affected Natural and Conservation Management Units.

9. Energy production where quantities of water are necessary to produce
energy directly.

10. Water-borne transportation which requires water access for transportation,
shipment of goods, or is necessary to support water-borne transportation (ie.,
moorage fueling, servicing of watercraft, ships, boats, and terminal and
transfer facilities).

B. Uses and activities listed below may be allowed in Development Management Units
when it is established that such are "consistent with the purposes of management
unit and adjacent shorelands designated suitable for water-dependent uses or
designated for waterfront redevelopment (pursuant to "Linkage" and "Goal
Exception" findings to the Plan) but also subject to special conditions and other
policies set forth elsewhere in this Plan.

1. Water-related and non-dependent, non-related uses not requiring dredge or
fill

2. Mining and mineral extraction

3. All uses/activities allowed in natural and conservation management units

4. Undeveloped low-intensity, water-dependent recreation

This policy is based on the recognition that the "Use and Activity Matrices" set forth as policy
elsewhere in the Plan conform with and shall be maintained in compliance with the "priority of
uses" and other "use" requirements of Goal #16. Unless otherwise noted in respective "Use and
Activity Matrices", the "resource capability assessments" called for in Goal #16 have been
conducted, and uses subject to these findings are thus allowed by this Plan, subject only to Policies
and Special Conditions set forth herein.

This policy recognizes that the Plan's estuarine management unit designations and permitted uses
and activities are based upon and establish general priorities for the use of estuarine resources.

II. These general use priorities (from highest to lowest) are:

 a. Uses which maintain the integrity of the estuarine ecosystem;

b. Water-dependent uses requiring estuarine location, as consistent with the overall
Oregon Estuarine Classification;

c. Water-related uses which do not degrade or reduce the natural estuarine resources
and values; and

d. Non-dependent, non-related uses, which do not alter, reduce or degrade estuarine
resources and values.
III-84

• Policy #3: Use of "Coquille River Estuary Special Considerations Map" as the
Basis for Special Policies Implementation

Local governments shall use the "Coquille River Estuary Special Considerations Map" as the basis
for implementing the special protection.

I. The "Coquille River Estuary Special Considerations Map" shall delineate the general
boundaries (plan inventory maps contain more precise boundary locations) of the following
specific areas covered by the Coquille River Estuary Management Plan:

 a. Coquille River Estuary Coastal Shorelands Boundary

 b. Sensitive Beach and Dune Areas

  1. areas unsuitable for development

  2. areas with limited development suitability

 c. Floodplain Hazard Areas

d. Agricultural Lands Designated for Exclusive Farm Use, and "Wet-Meadow"
Wetlands

 e. Coastal Historical and Archaeological Sites

 f. Urban Growth Boundaries (UGB's)

 g. Dredged Material Disposal and Mitigation/Restoration Sites

 h. Significant Wildlife Habitat and Major Marshes

 i. Forest Lands

The Special Considerations Map is NOT a substitute for the detailed spatial information presented
on the CREMP's inventory maps. The Special Considerations Map is merely an index guide
designed as a zoning counter implementation tool that indicates when special policy considerations
apply in a general area, thereby requiring inspection of the detailed plan inventory maps. The
Special Considerations Map must and shall at all times accurately reflect the detail presented on
the inventory maps (but at a more general scale).

II. Specific plan provisions set forth elsewhere as policy and relating to the above-listed
considerations shall be used in conjunction with the Coquille River Estuary Special
Considerations Map; such plan provisions include allowed uses and activities in each
management unit, and the following specific "functional" policies set forth below:

 #13 Overall Use Priorities within Coastal Shorelands

 #14 General Policy on Uses within Rural Coastal Shorelands

III-85
 #15 Land Divisions within Rural Shorelands

#16 Protection of Sites Suited to Water-Dependent Uses; and Special Allowance for
New Non-Water-Dependent Uses is "Urban Water-Dependent (UW)" Units which
are "Suitable for Water-Dependent Uses"; and Potential Sites Suited to Water-
Dependent Uses; and Protection of Sites Suited to Water-Dependent Uses in Future
Urbanizable Areas

#16a Rural, Urban, and Unincorporated Communities Use Standards

#16b Potential Sites Suitable for Water-Dependent Uses

#16c Protection of Sites Suited to Water-Dependent Uses in Future Urbanizable Areas

#17 Protection of "Major Marshes" and "Significant Wildlife Habitats" in Coastal
Shorelands

#18 Protection of Historical, Cultural and Archaeological Sites

 #19 Management of "Wet-Meadow" Wetlands within Coastal Shorelands

 #20 Dredged Material Disposal Sites

 #21 Mitigation and Restoration Sites

 #22 Mitigation Sites: Protection against Pre-emptory Uses

#22a Acquisition and Protection of Mitigation/Restoration and Dredged Material
Disposal Sites

 #23 Riparian Vegetation/Streambank Protection

 #24 Waste Water/Storm Water Discharge

 #27 Floodplain Protection within Coastal Shorelands

#28 Recognition of LCDC Goal #3 (Agricultural Lands) Requirements for Rural Lands
within the Coastal Shorelands Boundary

#29 Restricting Actions in Beach and Dune Areas that are "Unsuitable for
Development"

#30 Restricting Actions in Beach and Dune Areas with "Limited Development
Suitability"; and Special Consideration for Sensitive Beach and Dune Resources

#31 (Reserved)

 #34 Recognition of LCDC Goal #4 (Forest Lands) Requirements for Rural Lands
within the Coastal Shorelands Boundary

III-86
All other plan provisions - including allowed uses and activities - are subordinate to the special
"functional" policies listed above.

III. This policy recognizes that the Coquille River Estuary Special Considerations Map:

a. is an official policy component of this estuary management plan; and

b. provides a mechanism for site-specific application of special management policies.

• Policy #4: Resource Capability Consistency and Impact Assessment

I. Local government concludes that all proposed actions (approved in this Plan), which would
alter or potentially alter, the integrity of the estuarine ecosystem have been based upon a
full consideration of the impacts of the proposed alteration and a demonstration of the
public's need and gain, which warrant such modification or loss, except for the following
uses and activities:

 a. Natural Management Units

  ~ Aquaculture
  ~ Log Storage
  ~ Bridge Crossings

 b. Conservation Management Units

  ~ High-intensity water-dependent recreation
  ~ Aquaculture
  ~ New or expanded log storage
  ~ Dike maintenance dredging
  ~ Minor navigational improvement requiring dredging or fill
  ~ Bulkheading
  ~ Water Intake or withdrawal and effluent discharge
  ~ Riprap
  ~ Log storage dredging

c. Development Management Units

  ~ Aquaculture
  ~ New or expanded log storage
  ~ Mining and mineral extraction
  ~ Water-related and non-dependent, non-related uses not requiring fill
  ~ Bulkheading
  ~ Dredging
  ~ Fill
  ~ In-Water Structures
~ Flow-lane disposal of dredged material and other activities which could
affect the estuary's physical processes or biological resources
  ~ Application of pesticides

d. Any other uses and activities, which require the resource capability consistency test
III-87
as a condition within a particular management unit.

For uses and activities requiring the resource capabilities test, a special condition is
noted in the applicable management unit uses/activities matrix. A determination of
consistency with resource capability and the purposes of the management unit shall
be based on the following:

  i. A description of resources identified in the plan inventory; and

ii. An evaluation of impacts on those resources by the proposed use (see
impact assessment procedure, below); and

iii. A determination of whether the proposed use or activity is consistent with
the resource capabilities of the area, or that the resources of the area are able
to assimilate the use and activity and their effects and continue to function in
a manner to protect significant wildlife habitats, natural biological
productivity, and values for scientific research and education.

Where the impact assessment requirements (Goal #16 Implementation Requirement #1) has
not been satisfied in this Plan for certain uses or activities (i.e., those identified above), then
such uses or activities shall not be permitted until findings demonstrate the public's need
and gain which would warrant any modification or loss to the estuarine ecosystem, based
upon a clear presentation of the impacts of the proposed alteration, as implemented in
Policy #4a.

II. An impact assessment need not be lengthy or complex, but it should give reviewers an
overview of the impacts to be expected. It may include information on:

 a. the type and extent of alterations expected; and

 b. the type of resource(s) affected; and

c. the expected extent of impacts of the proposed alteration on water quality and other
physical characteristics of the estuary, living resources, recreation and aesthetic use,
navigation and other existing and potential uses of the estuary; and

d. the methods which could be employed to avoid or minimize adverse impacts.

This policy is based on the recognition that the need for and cumulative effects of estuarine
development were fully addressed during the preparation of this Plan and may be mitigated by the
imposition, as necessary, of conditions through the administrative conditional use process.

• Policy #4a: Deferral of (I) Resource Capability Consistency Findings and (II)
Resource Impact Assessments

Local government shall defer, until the time of permit application, findings regarding consistency
of the uses/activities listed in Policy #4 with the resource capabilities of the particular management
unit.

Additionally, the impact assessment requirement for those uses/activities as specified in Policy #4
III-88
shall be performed concurrently with resource capability findings above at the time of the permit
application.

I. This policy shall be implemented through a conditional use process that includes local
cooperation with the appropriate state agencies:

a. where aquaculture is proposed as a use, local government shall notify the Oregon
Department of Fish and Wildlife (ODFW) and Department of Agriculture in writing
of the request with a map of the proposed site; and

b. where log storage dredging is proposed as an activity local government shall notify
the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) in writing of the request
with a map of the proposed site.

II. Within twenty (20) days of receipt of the notification, the state agency shall submit in
writing to the local government a statement as to whether the proposed use/activity will:

a.  be consistent with the resource capabilities of the management unit or

b. if determined not to be consistent, whether the proposal can be made consistent
through imposition of conditions on the permit.

III. The appropriate state agency shall also perform the impact assessment required in Policy
#4. If no statement is received from the state agency by the expiration of the twenty (20)
day period, local government shall:

a. presume consistency of the proposal with the resource capabilities of the
management unit; and

b. make findings appropriate to that presumption, and

c. perform the assessment of impacts required by Policy #4.

IV. For all other uses/activities specified above, local government shall:

a. determine through appropriate findings whether the proposed use/activity is
consistent with the resource capabilities of the management unit; and

b. perform the assessment of impacts required by Policy #4.

V. This strategy recognizes:

a. that resource capability consistency findings and impact assessments as required by
Statewide Planning Goal #16 can only be made for the uses specified above at the
time of permit application; and

b.  that the specified state agencies have expertise appropriate to assist local
government in making required findings and assessments.

This policy is based upon the recognition that the need for and cumulative effects of estuarine
III-89
developments were fully addressed during development of this Plan and that no additional findings
are required to meet Implementation Requirement #1 of Goal #16.

• Policy #5: Estuarine Fill and Removal

I. Local government shall support dredge and/or fill only if such activities are allowed in the
respective management unit, and:

a. the activity is required for navigation or other water-dependent use that require an
estuarine location or in the case of fills for non-water-dependent uses, is needed for
a public use and would satisfy a public need that outweighs harm to navigation,
fishing and recreation, as per ORS 541.625(4), and an Exception has been taken in
this Plan to allow such fill; and

b. a need (ie., a substantial public benefit) is demonstrated and the use or alteration
does not unreasonably interfere with public trust rights; and

c. no feasible alternative upland locations exist; and

 d. adverse impacts are minimized; and

e. effects may be mitigated by creation, restoration or enhancement of another area to
ensure that the integrity of the estuarine ecosystem is maintained; and

f. the activity is consistent with other requirements of state and federal law,
specifically the conditions in ORS 541.615 and Section 404 of the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act (P.L. 92-500).

II. Other uses and activities which could alter the estuary shall only be allowed if the
requirements in (b), (c), and (d) are met.

Identification and minimization of adverse impacts as required in "d" above shall follow
the procedure set forth in Policy #4.

As required by Goal #16, only dredging necessary for on-site maintenance of existing
functional tidegates, associated drainage channels and bridge crossing support structures is
permitted in Natural and Conservation Management Units. Dredging necessary for the
installation of new bridge crossing support structures is permitted in Conservation
Management Units and may be allowed in Natural Management Units where consistent
with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of the management unit.

In the Conservation Management Unit, new dredging for boat ramps and marinas,
aquaculture requiring dredge or fill or other alteration of the estuary, and dredging
necessary for mineral extraction may be allowed where consistent with the resource
capabilities of the area and the purposes of the management unit.

This policy shall be implemented by the preparation of findings by local government
documenting that such proposed actions are consistent with the Comprehensive Plan, and
with criteria "a", "b", "c", "d", "e", and "f" above. However, where goal exceptions are
III-90
included within this plan, the findings in the exception shall be sufficient to satisfy criteria
"a" through "d" above. Identification and minimization of adverse impacts as required in
"e" above shall follow the procedure set forth in Policy #4a. The findings shall be
developed in response to a "request for comment" by the Division of State Lands, which
shall seek local government's determination regarding the appropriateness of a permit to
allow the proposed action.

"Significant", as used in "other significant reduction or degradation of natural estuarine
values", shall be determined by: (i) The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers through its Section
10 and 404 permit processes; or (ii) The Department of Environmental Quality for
approvals of new aquatic log storage areas only; or (iii) The Department of Fish and
Wildlife for new aquaculture proposals only.

This policy recognizes that Goal #16 limits dredge, fill and other estuarine degradation in order to
protect the integrity of the estuary.

• Policy #5a: Temporary Alterations

I. Local government shall support as consistent with this Plan: temporary alteration to the
estuary, in Natural and Conservation Management Units provided it is consistent with the
resource capabilities of the management units. Management unit in Development
Management Units temporary alterations, which are defined in the definition section of the
Plan are allowed provided they are consistent with purpose of the Development
Management Unit.

II. Further, the actions specified above shall only be allowed provided that:

a. the temporary alteration is consistent with the resource capabilities of the area (see
Policy #4); and

b. findings satisfying the impact minimization criterion of Policy #5 are made for
actions involving dredge, fill or other significant temporary reduction or
degradation of estuarine values; and

c. the affected area is restored to its previous condition by removal of the fill or other
structures, or by filling of dredged areas (passive restoration may be used for
dredged areas, if this is shown to be effective); and

d. the maximum duration of the temporary alteration is three years, subject to annual
permit renewal, and restoration measures are undertaken at the completion of the
project within the life of the permit.

Mitigation shall not be required by this Plan for such temporary alterations.

This policy shall be implemented through the administrative conditional use process and through
local review and comment on state and federal permit applications.

This policy is based on the recognition that temporary estuarine fill and habitat alterations are
frequently legitimate actions when in conjunction with jetty repair and other important economic
activities. It is not uncommon for projects to need staging areas and access that require temporary
III-91
alteration to habitat that is otherwise protected by this Plan.

• Policy #5b: Dredging to Repair Existing Functional Dikes & Tidegates

Dredging to repair and maintain existing functional tidegates shall be permitted. Dredging (limited
to subtidal areas only) shall also be permitted in units for repair of dikes where breaching has
occurred or is in imminent danger of occurring.

Dredging for routine repair and maintenance of existing functional dikes shall be permitted, and
limited to subtidal areas, and only in cases where the alternative of using upland fill material is not
reasonably available. The upland fill alternative shall be used if a source of suitable material is
available on the landowner's property and access to the dike is feasible for heavy equipment,
taking into account soil conditions and road access.

In disposal of material from channel maintenance dredging on Coquille River and log storage area
maintenance dredging, the first consideration shall be given to side-casting materials onto adjacent
agricultural lands for dike repair/maintenance.

This policy shall be implemented through the state/federal waterway permit review and comment
process, and through a local administrative review process that includes an evaluation of the
availability and suitability of alternative sources of material. Local government shall recommend
imposition of a condition on state and federal waterway permits to require that any dredging
authorized to repair and maintain tidegates or dikes shall be limited to the minimum necessary to
restore the functional operation of the tidegate or dike.

I. This policy is based on the recognition:

a. There is no alternative to dredging for tidegate maintenance or for emergency repair
of dikes breached by erosion;

b. Dredging for routine dike repair maintenance may be necessary if suitable material
such as upland fill is not reasonably available, or if access to the dike is not possible
for heavy equipment due to wet ground conditions;

c. Maintenance and repair of dikes and tidegates is necessary to maintain productive
farm land in Coos County and has been a historical farm management practice in
the area for over half a century; and

d. Any required dredging must be restricted to subtidal areas to minimize adverse
impacts to aquatic habitat that might otherwise result.

• Policy #5c: New and Expanded Log Storage

Where otherwise listed as an allowable use/activity within the respective management unit, new or
expanded log storage shall be reviewed and approved by the Department of Environmental Quality
in accordance with DEQ's Log Handling Implementation Program, which shall include a
determination of whether the use/activity is consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and
purposes of the estuarine management unit, and consistent with Policy #5 regarding other
significant reductions or degradations of estuarine natural values.

III-92
This strategy recognizes the technical expertise of Department of Environmental Quality regarding
resource capabilities.

• Policy #5d: Research and Educational Observations

I. Local government shall support research and educational observations, if:

a. such activities are allowed in the respective management unit, and

 b. the activity is required for research and educational purposes.

This policy shall be implemented through the Administrative Conditional Use review criteria,
which is through local review.

II. Further, where listed as allowable, a "temporary" Research and Educational Observation
Structure shall be treated as 'temporary" in nature and shall comply with Policy #5a(II).

This strategy recognizes that Goal #16 provides for research and educational observation
structures, strictly for the purposes of scientific research or education .

• Policy #6: Fill in Conservation and Natural Management Units

I. Local government may allow fill activities in Conservation Management Units only if
listed as an "allowable" use within a respective unit, and then only as part of the following
use or activity:

a. maintenance and protection of man-made structures existing as of October 7, 1977;

 b. activity restoration if a public need is demonstrated;

 c. low water bridges if:

  1. an estuarine location is required; and

2. within the estuary, there are no alternative locations such as in a
Development Management Unit; and

  3. adverse impacts are minimized as much as feasible.

 d. Bridge crossing support structures if:

  1. the findings of "c" above are made; and

2. consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and purposes of the
management unit.

e. Aquaculture, high-intensity water-dependent recreation and minor navigational
improvements if:

  1. the findings of "d" above are made; and
III-93

2. no alternative upland locations exist for the portion of the use requiring fill;

 f. Flood and erosion control structures if:

1. required to protect a water-dependent use as otherwise allowed in "d" above;
and

2. land use management practices and non-structural solutions are inadequate
to protect the use.

Further, local government may allow riprap activities in Natural Management Units to a very
limited extent where necessary for erosion control to protect:

a. uses existing as of 10-7-77;

b. unique natural resource and historical and archaeological values, or;

c. public facilities.

This policy shall be implemented through estuarine "Use and Activity" matrices set forth in this
Plan, and through local review and comment on state and federal permit applications for such
projects.

This policy recognizes the general objectives of Statewide Planning Goals #16 and #17.

• Policy #7: Maintenance Dredging of Authorized Channel

Local government support maintenance dredging of the authorized navigation channel.

This policy recognizes that there are persistent problems with buildup of sediment in the Coquille
channel entrance from littoral transport during late summer months, creating rough water and
difficult bar crossing, which interferes with navigation.

• Policy #8: Estuarine Mitigation Requirements (See also Policies #21, #22 and
#22a)

Local government recognizes that mitigation shall be required when estuarine dredge or fill
activities are permitted in inter-tidal or tidal marsh areas. The effects shall be mitigated by
creation, restoration or enhancement of another area to ensure that the integrity of the estuarine
ecosystem is maintained as required by ORS 196.830 (renumbered in 1989). However, mitigation
shall not be required for projects, which the Division of State Lands determined met the criteria of
ORS 196.830(3).

This policy shall be implemented through procedures established by the Division of State Lands,
and as consistent with ORS 196.830 and other mitigation/restoration policies set forth in this Plan.

This policy recognizes the authority of the Director of the Division of State Lands in administering
the statutes regarding mitigation.

III-94
• Policy #9: Solutions to Erosion and Flooding Problems

Local government shall prefer non-structural solutions to problems of erosion and flooding in the
Coquille River Estuary to structural solutions. Where shown to be necessary, water and erosion
control structures such as jetties, bulkheads, seawalls and similar protective structures and fill
whether located in the waterways or on shorelands above ordinary high water mark shall be
designed to minimize adverse impacts on water currents, erosion and accretion patterns.

I. Further, where listed as an allowable activity within respective management units, riprap
may be allowed in Development Management Units upon findings that:

a. land use management practices and non-structural solutions are inadequate; and

b. adverse impacts on water currents, erosion and accretion patterns are minimized;
and

c. it is consistent with the Development Management Unit requirements of the
Estuarine Resources Goal.

II. Further, where listed as an allowable activity within respective management units, riprap
may be allowed in Conservation Aquatic Management Units upon findings that:

a. land use management practices and non-structural solutions are inadequate; and

b. adverse impacts on water currents, erosion and accretion patterns are minimized;
and

c. riprap is consistent with the resource capabilities of the area and the purposes of
maintaining Conservation Management Units.

III. Further, where listed as an allowable activity within respective management units, riprap
may be allowed in Natural Aquatic Management Units upon findings that:

a. there is a need to protect from erosion: uses existing as of October 7, 1977, unique
natural resources and historic, archaeological, and cultural values, or public
facilities; and

b. land use management practices and non-structural solutions are inadequate; and

c. it is consistent with the Natural Management Unit as set forth in this Plan and
required by Goal #16; and

d. adverse impacts on water currents, erosion and accretion patterns and estuarine
organisms and their habitat are minimized.

Implementation of this policy shall occur through local review of and comment on state and
federal permit applications for such projects.

This policy is based on the recognition that non-structural solutions are often more cost-effective
as corrective measures, but that carefully designed structural solutions are occasionally necessary.
III-95
The policy also recognizes Statewide Planning Goals #16 and #17 requirements and the Oregon
Administrative Rule classifying Oregon estuaries (OAR 660-17-000 as amended June, 1981).

• Policy #10: Proliferation of Single-Purpose Docks and Piers

Local government shall act to restrict the proliferation of individual single-purpose docks and
piers, when such are allowed within respective management units.

I. This strategy shall be implemented by:

a. preparation of findings by local government in response to a "request for comment"
DSL (which shall seek local government's determination regarding the
appropriateness of a permit to allow the proposed dock or pier) which document
that:

1. the size and shape of the proposed dock or pier shall be limited to that
required for the intended use; and

2. alternatives to docks and piers (such as mooring buoys, dryland storage, and
launching ramps) have been investigated and considered; and

b. encouraging community facilities common to several uses and interest by:

1. satisfying community needs for docks and moorage facilities in this Plan;
and

  2. encouraging easements to facilitate multi-ownership.

This policy recognizes the requirements of Goal #16 and the environmental benefits of multi-
purpose and multi-ownership docks and moorage facilities.

• Policy #11: Authority of Other Agencies

Local government shall recognize the authority of the following agencies and their programs for
managing land and water resources:

• The Oregon Forest Practices and Act and Administrative Rules, for forest lands as
defined in ORS 527.620 (1991)-527.730 and Forest Lands Goal;

• The non-point source discharge water quality program administered by the Department
of Environmental Quality under Section 208 of the Federal Water Quality Act as
amended in 1972 (PL 92-500);

• The Fill and Removal Permit Program administered by the Division of State Lands
(DSL) under ORS 196.800-880 (renumbered 1989); and

• The programs of the State Soil and Water Conservation Commission and local districts
and the Soil Conservation Service for the Agricultural Land Goal.

III-96
This strategy recognizes there are several agencies with authority over coastal waters, and that
their management programs should be used rather than developing new or duplicatory
management techniques or controls, especially as related to existing programs functioning to
maintain water quality and minimize man-induced sedimentation.

• Policy #12: Removal of Old Pilings and Snags

Local governments shall support removing obstructions and accumulations of debris from the
Coquille River Estuary, where "minor navigational improvements" listed as an allowable use or
activity within all management units, except where identified as needed for habitat.

This strategy recognizes that the Coquille River Estuary contains a large number of disused
pilings, snags, other obstructions and accumulations which may interfere with boat passage and
can adversely affect habitat and increase erosion hazard.

This strategy shall be implemented through the permit coordination with ODFW and the Army
Corps of Engineers prior to County sign-off on permits.

• Policy #12a: (Reserved)

• Policy #12b: (Reserved)

• Policy #12c: Future Studies

Local government shall encourage the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife to study biological
resources of the Coquille Estuary, particularly the riverine section, to ascertain the effects of
dredging and other river channel improvements and to determine the effects of various fish and
wildlife management actions.

This strategy recognizes that the state of general knowledge about biological resources of the
Coquille Estuary, particularly the riverine section is sketchy.

• Policy #12d: (Reserved)

• Policy #13: Overall Use Priorities Within Coastal Shorelands

I. Local governments shall maintain the following priorities for the overall use of coastal
shorelands (from highest to lowest):

 a. promote uses which maintain the integrity of estuaries and coastal waters;

 b. provide for water-dependent uses;

 c. provide for water-related uses;

d. provide for non-dependent, non-related uses which retain flexibility of future use
and do not prematurely or inalterably commit shorelands to more intensive uses;

e. provide for development, including non-dependent, non-related uses in urban areas
III-97
compatible with existing or committed uses;

f. permit non-dependent, non-related uses which cause a permanent or long-term
change in the features of coastal shorelands only upon a demonstration of public
need.

In addition, priority uses for flood hazard and floodplain areas shall include agriculture, forestry,
recreation and open space and uses, which are water-dependent.

This strategy recognizes that the Coquille River Estuary Management Plan's shoreland
designations and permitted uses and activities are based upon and establish general priorities for
the use of coastal shoreland resources.

• Policy #14: General Policy on Uses within Rural Coastal Shorelands

I. Coos County shall manage its rural areas with the "Coquille River Coastal Shorelands
Boundary" by allowing only the following uses in rural shoreland areas, as prescribed in
the management units of this Plan, except for areas where mandatory protection is
prescribed by LCDC Goal #17 and #18:

 a. farm uses as provided in ORS 215;

 b. propagation and harvesting of forest products consistent with the Oregon
Forest Practices Act;

 c. private and public water-dependent recreation developments;

 d. aquaculture;

e. water-dependent commercial and industrial uses, water-related uses and other uses
only upon a finding by the county that such uses satisfy a need which can not be
accommodated on uplands or in urban and urbanizable areas or in rural areas built
upon or irrevocably committed to non-resource use;

f. single family residences on lots, parcels, or units of land existing on January 1,
1977 when it is established that:

  1. the dwelling is in conjunction with a permitted farm or forest use, or

  2. the dwelling is in a documented "committed" area, or

  3. the dwelling has been justified through a goal exception, or

4. such uses do not conflict with the resource preservation and protection
policies established elsewhere in this Plan;

g. any other uses, provided that the Board of Commissioners determines that such uses
satisfy a need which cannot be accommodated at other upland locations or in urban
or urbanizable areas. In addition, the above uses shall only be permitted upon a
finding that such uses do not otherwise conflict with the resource preservation and
III-98
protection policies established elsewhere in this Plan.

This strategy recognizes (1) that Coos County's rural shorelands are a valuable resource and
accordingly merit special consideration, and (2) that LCDC Goal #17 places strict limitations on
land divisions within coastal shorelands. This strategy further recognizes that rural uses "a"
through "g" above, are allowed because of need and consistency findings documented in the
"factual base" that supports this plan.

• Policy #15: Land Divisions within Rural Shorelands

Coos County shall permit subdivisions and partitions within the Coquille River Coastal Shorelands
Boundary in rural areas only upon a finding by the County:

a.  that such land divisions would not otherwise conflict with the resource preservation
and protection policies established elsewhere in this Plan, agricultural policies and
ordinance requirements of the Coos County Comprehensive Plan; and either

b. that the new land divisions fulfill a need that cannot otherwise be accommodated in
uplands in urban and urbanizable areas; or

 c. that the new land divisions are in a documented "committed" area; or

 d. that the new land divisions have been justified through a goal exception.

This strategy shall be implemented through provisions in ordinance measures that require the
above findings to be made prior to the approval of the preliminary plat of a subdivision or
partition.

This strategy recognizes (1) that Coos County's rural shorelands are a valuable resource and
accordingly merit special consideration; and (2) that LCDC Goal #17 places strict limitations on
land divisions within coastal shorelands.

• Policy #16: Protection of Sites Suitable to Water-Dependent Uses; and Special
Allowance for New Non-Water-Dependent Uses in "Urban Water-Dependent
(UW) Units which are Suitable for Water-Dependent Uses" (WD)

Local government shall protect shorelands in the following areas that are suitable for water-
dependent uses, for water-dependent commercial, recreational and industrial uses.

 a. Urban or urbanizable areas;

 b. Rural areas built upon or irrevocably committed to non-resource use; and

c. Any unincorporated community subject to OAR Chapter 660, Division 022
(Unincorporated Communities).

This strategy is implemented through the Estuary Plan, which provides for water-dependent uses
within areas that are designated as Urban Water-dependent (UW) management units.

III-99
I. Minimum acreage. The minimum amount of shorelands to be protected shall be equivalent
to the following combination of factors:

a. Acreage of estuarine shorelands that are currently being used for water-dependent
uses; and

b. Acreage of estuarine shorelands that at any time were used for water-dependent
uses and still possess structures or facilities that provide or provided water-
dependent uses with access to the adjacent coastal water body. Examples of such
structures or facilities include wharves, piers, docks, mooring piling, boat ramps,
water intake or discharge structures and navigational aids.

II. Suitability. The shoreland area within the estuary designated to provide the minimum
amount of protected shorelands, shall be suitable for water-dependent uses. At a minimum
such water-dependent shoreland areas shall possess, or be capable of possessing, structures
or facilities that provide water-dependent uses with physical access to the adjacent coastal
water body. The designation of such areas shall comply with applicable Statewide Planning
Goals.

III. Permissible Non-Water-Dependent Uses. Unless otherwise allowed through an Exception,
new non-water-dependent uses which may be permitted in "Urban Water-Dependent
(UW)" management units are a temporary use which involves minimal capital investment
and no permanent structures, or a use in conjunction with and incidental and subordinate to
a water-dependent use. Such new non-water-dependent uses may be allowed only if the
following findings are made, prior to permitting such uses:

Temporary use involving minimal capital investment and no permanent structures:

 a. the proposed use or activity is temporary in nature (such as storage, etc); and,

b. the proposed use would not pre-empt the ultimate use of the property for water-
dependent uses; and,

c. the site is committed to long-term water-dependent use or development by the
landowner.

 Use in conjunction with and incidental and subordinate to a water-dependent use:

a. Such non-water-dependent uses shall be constructed at the same time as or after the
water-dependent use of the site is established, and must be carried out together with
the water-dependent use.

b. The ratio of the square footage of ground-level indoor floor space plus outdoor
acreage distributed between the non-water-dependent uses and the water-dependent
uses at the site shall not exceed one to three (non-water-dependent to water-
dependent).

c. Such non-water-dependent uses shall not interfere with the conduct of the water-
dependent use.

III-100
This policy shall be implemented through provisions in ordinance measures that require an
administrative conditional use application be filed and approved, and the above findings be made,
prior to the establishing of the proposed uses or activities.

• Policy #16a: Rural, Urban, and Unincorporated Communities Use Standards

I. Commercial and Industrial uses in Unincorporated Communities shall be consistent with
OAR 660-022-0030. Commercial and industrial uses shall comply with building square
footage requirements set forth in OAR 660-022-0030(10) and (11). New commercial
structures authorized outside of an UCB or UGB shall not exceed 3,500 square feet of floor
area. New industrial structures located outside of a UCB or UGB shall not exceed 35,000
square feet of floor area, unless:

a. The industrial use involves the primary processing of raw material(s) produced in
the area or from ocean resources; or

b. The industrial use is located on an abandoned or diminished mill site as defined by
statute; or

c. The industrial use is located in an area where an exception to Goal 14 has been
taken; or

d. As authorized by Goals 3 and/or 4.

This policy shall be implemented through ordinance measures. Implementation shall occur as
identified under specific zoning district standards.  (04-04-005PL 9/1/04)

II. It must be demonstrated through findings that the proposed use will not:

 a. adversely affect agricultural and forest operations, and

 b. interfere with the efficient functioning of urban growth boundaries.

III. The following are development standards for proposed commercial or industrial structures
to be located on parcels, which are abutting exclusive farm use or forest zoned properties:

a. all structures, except fences, shall be setback a minimum of thirty-five (35) feet
from any road right-of-way centerline, or five (5) feet from any right-of-way
centerline, whichever is greater; and

b. all structures being sited on parcels abutting exclusive farm use (EFU) or forest (F)
zoned parcels, property owners(s)/applicant(s) shall acknowledge and file in the
deed records of Coos County, a "Farm and forest" Practices Management Covenant.
The covenant shall be recorded in the deed records of the county prior to the County
issuing a zoning compliance letter.

• Policy #16b: Potential Sites Suitable for Water-Dependent Uses

Local government shall re-evaluate available sites for water-dependent uses which would comply
III-101
with the Statewide Planning Goals at the time of the first update of the Coquille Estuary Plan.

This strategy recognizes that the Coquille River Estuary suffers from a shortage of suitable and
readily available sites for water-dependent uses.

• Policy #16c: Protection of Sites Suited to Water-Dependent Uses in Future
Urbanizable Areas

Local government shall (when considering possible future amendments to this Estuary
Management Plan) protect shorelands in future urbanizable areas suited for water-dependent uses
for water-dependent recreational, commercial and industrial uses.

Implementation shall be based on the local plan review and update process and the "Land Use
Planning" and plan implementation strategies applicable to that review process.

This strategy recognizes that future revisions to urban growth areas may include new water-
dependent areas.

• Policy #17: Protection of “Major Marshes" and Significant "Wildlife Habitats" in
Coastal Shorelands

Local government shall protect from development, major marshes and significant wildlife habitat,
coastal headlands, and exceptional aesthetic resources located within the Coquille River Coastal
Shorelands Boundary unless exceptions allow otherwise.

I. Local government shall protect:

a. "Major marshes" to include areas identified in the Goal #17 "Linkage Matrix", and
the Shoreland Values Inventory map; and

b. "Significant wildlife habitats" to include those areas identified on the map
"Freshwater Wetlands" plus natural areas of significant importance identified on the
map "Historical/Archaeological/Scientific sites"; and

c. "Coastal headlands"; and

d. "Exceptional aesthetic resources" where the quality is primarily derived from or
related to the association with coastal water areas.

II. This strategy shall be implemented through:

a. plan designations and use and activity matrices set forth elsewhere in this Plan that
limit uses in these special areas to those that are consistent with protection of
natural values, and

b. through use of the Special Considerations Map that identifies such special areas
and restricts uses and activities therein to uses that are consistent with the
protection of natural values. Such uses may include propagation and selective
harvesting of forest products consistent with the Oregon Forest Practices Act,
grazing, harvesting wild crops, and low-intensity water-dependent recreation.
III-102

This strategy recognizes that special protective consideration must be given to key resources in
coastal shorelands over and above the protection afforded such resources elsewhere in this Plan.

• Policy #18: Protection of "Historical, Cultural and Archaeological Sites"

Local government shall provide special protection to historic and archaeological sites and shall
continue to refrain from widespread dissemination of site-specific information about identified
archaeological sites.

I. This strategy shall be implemented by requiring review of all development proposals
involving an archaeological or historical site to determine whether the project as proposed
would protect the historical and archaeological values of the site.

II. The development proposal, when submitted shall include a Site Plan Application, showing,
at a minimum, all areas proposed for excavation, clearing and construction. Within three
(3) working days of receipt of the development proposal, the local government shall notify
the Coquille Indian Tribe in writing, together with a copy of the Site Plan Application. The
Tribe shall have the right to submit a written statement to the local government within
thirty (30) days of receipt of such notification, stating whether the project as proposed
would protect the cultural, historical and archaeological values of the site, or if not, whether
the project could be modified by appropriate measures to protect those values
.

"Appropriate measures" may include, but shall not be limited to, the following:

a. Retaining the prehistoric and/or historic structure in situ or moving it intact
to another site; or
b. Paving over the site without disturbance of any human remains or cultural
objects upon the written consent of the Tribe(s); or
  c. Clustering development so as to avoid disturbing the site; or
  d. Setting the site aside for non-impacting activities, such as storage; or
e. If permitted pursuant to the substantive and procedural requirements of ORS
97.750, contracting with a qualified archaeologist to excavate the site and
remove any cultural objects and human remains, reinterring the human
remains at the developer's expense; or
f. Using civil means to ensure adequate protection of the resources, such as
acquisition of easements, public dedications, or transfer of title.

If a previously unknown or unrecorded archaeological site is encountered in the
development process, the above measures shall still apply. Land development activities,
which violate the intent of this strategy, shall be subject to penalties prescribed in ORS
Chapter 97.990.

III. Upon receipt of the statement by the Tribe, or upon expiration of the Tribe thirty day (30)
response period, the local government shall conduct an administrative review of the
development proposal and shall:

a. approve the development proposal if no adverse impacts have been identified, as
long as consistent with other portions of this Plan, or

III-103
b. approve the development proposal subject to appropriate measures agreed upon by
the landowner and the Tribe, as well as any additional measures deemed necessary
by the local government to protect the historical and archaeological values of the
site. If the property owner and the Tribe cannot agree on the appropriate measures,
then the governing body shall hold a quasi-judicial hearing to resolve the dispute.
The hearing shall be a public hearing at which the governing body shall determine
by preponderance of evidence whether the development project may be allowed to
proceed, subject to any modifications deemed necessary by the governing body to
protect the historical and archaeological values of the site.

c. Through the "overlay concept" of this policy and the Special Considerations Map,
unless an Exception has been taken, no uses other than propagation and selective
harvesting of forest products consistent with the Oregon Forest Practices Act,
grazing, harvesting wild crops, and low-intensity water-dependent recreation shall
be allowed unless such uses are consistent with the protection of the historic and
archaeological values, or unless appropriate measures have been taken to protect the
historic and archaeological values of the site.

This strategy recognizes that protection of historical and archaeological sites is not only a
community's social responsibility, is also legally required by ORS 97.745. It also recognizes that
historical and archaeological sites are non-renewable cultural resources.

• Policy #19: Management of "Wet-Meadow" Wetlands within Coastal Shorelands

I. Coos County shall protect for agricultural purposes those areas defined as 'wet meadow'
wetlands by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service but currently in agricultural use or with
agricultural soils and not otherwise designated as "significant wildlife habitats" or "major
marshes", unless an Exception allows otherwise. Permitted uses and activities in these areas
shall include farm use and any drainage activities, which are necessary to improve
agricultural production. Filling of these areas, however, shall not be permitted, so as to
retain these areas as wildlife habitats during periods of seasonal flooding and high water
tables, with the following exceptions:

a. for transportation corridors where an Exception has been taken to Goal #3
(Agricultural Lands); or

b. agricultural buildings, where no alternative site exists on the applicant's property; or

 c. minor improvements for which there is no practical alternative; or

d. where no fill permit is required under Section 404 of the Water Pollution Control
Act; or

e. for priority dredged material disposal sites designated by this Plan for protection
from
pre-emptory uses.

Any activity or use requires notification of Division of State Lands, with their comments
received prior to the issuance of any permits.

III-104
II. This policy shall be implemented by designating these lands as "Agricultural Lands" on the
Special Considerations Map and by making findings in response to a request for comment
by the Division of State Lands, which show whether the proposed action is consistent with
the Comprehensive Plan. This strategy recognizes:

a. that protection of these areas for agricultural use is necessary to ensure the
continuation of the local agricultural economy;

b. that improved drainage is necessary to maintain or enhance productivity by
establishing preferred forage types;

c. that the present system of agricultural use in the Coquille Valley is compatible with
wildlife habitat values because the land is used for agriculture during the season
when the land is dry and therefore not suitable as wetland habitat, and provides
habitat areas for wildfowl during the flooding season when the land is unsuitable for
most agricultural uses; and

d. that these habitat values will be maintained provided filling is not permitted.

• Policy #20: Dredged Material Disposal Sites

Local government shall support the stockpiling and disposal of dredged materials on sites
specifically designated in Plan Inventory (See Section 5.4.21, Site A, North Spit designated
dredged material disposal site). This site is also shown on the "Special Considerations Map".
Ocean disposal is currently the primary disposal method chosen by those who need disposal sites.
The dredge material disposal designated sites has decreased because the ocean has become the
primary disposal method, the in-land DMD sites have diminished and those which have remained
on the DMD list are sites which may be utilized in the future and not be cost-prohibitive.
Consistent with the "use/activity" matrix, this designated disposal site shall be managed so as to
prevent new uses and activities, which would prevent its ultimate use for dredged material
disposal. A designated site may only be released for some other use upon a finding that a suitable
substitute site is available to provide for that need. Sites may only be released through a Plan
Amendment. Upland dredged material disposal shall be permitted elsewhere (consistent with the
"use/activity" matrices) as needed for new dredging (where permitted), maintenance dredging of
existing functional facilities, minor navigational improvements or drainage improvements,
provided riparian vegetation and fresh-water wetland are not affected. For any in-water (including
inter-tidal or subtidal estuarine areas) disposal permit requests, this strategy shall be implemented
by the preparation of findings by local government consistent with Policy #5 (Estuarine Fill and
Removal).

I. This policy shall be implemented by:

a. Designating "Selected Dredged Material Disposal Sites" on the Special
Considerations Map; and

b. Implementing an administrative review process (to preclude pre-emptory uses) that
allows uses otherwise permitted by this Plan but proposed within an area designated
as a "Selected DMD" site only upon satisfying all of the following criteria:

1. The proposed use will not entail substantial structural or capital
III-105
improvements, such as roads, permanent buildings or non-temporary water
and sewer connections; and

2. The proposed use must not require any major alteration of the site that
would affect drainage or reduce the usable volume of the site - such as
extensive site grading/excavation or elevation from fill; and

3. The proposed use must not require site changes that would prevent the
expeditious conversion of the site to estuarine habitat.

c. Local government's review of and comment on applicable state and federal
waterway permit applications for dike/tidegate and drainage ditch actions.

II. This strategy recognizes that sites designated in the Comprehensive Plan reflect the
following key environmental considerations required by LCDC Goal #16:

a. Disposal of dredged material in upland or ocean waters was given general
preference in the overall site selection process;

b. Disposal of dredged material in estuary waters is permitted in this plan only when
such disposal is consistent with state and federal law.

 c. Selected DMD sites must be protected from pre-emptory uses.

• Policy #20a: Dredged Material Disposal Guidelines

Future dredged material disposal should be carried out in accordance with the guidelines outlined
in Volume II, Part I, Section 6.2 of the Plan, which relate to: drainage diversion, sediment quality
and turbidity, timing of disposal, land surface use, revegetation, toxic materials, land use outfalls
and influent discharge points, water quality and removal of material from approved upland sites.
Future land use shall be governed by the uses/activities permitted and the Management Objective
in that management unit. Additional guidelines contained in the "Special Considerations" section
of the individual site fieldsheets (see Inventory and Factual Base, Volume II, Part 2, Section 7,
Appendix 'A') provide site-specific information on the procedures that should be followed.

These guidelines are intended to indicate the type of conditions that federal and state agencies are
likely to impose on dredged material disposal permits, which shall be the primary means of
implementation. Local government shall implement this policy by review and comment on permit
applications.

This policy recognizes that disposal permit conditions are imposed at the discretion of the
permitting agency, and should not be set down as mandatory requirements in the Plan, but simply
as guidelines.

• Policy #20b: Intertidal Dredged Material Disposal

Local government shall prohibit dredged material disposal in intertidal or tidal marsh areas except
where such disposal is part of an approved fill project.

This strategy shall be implemented through operation of the waterway permit process as a response
III-106
to a "request for comment" from the Division of State Lands and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.

This strategy recognizes that upland disposal and ocean disposal are alternatives to intertidal
disposal.

• Policy #20c: DMD Planning Period

Local government recognizes that the Comprehensive Plan does not provide adequate information
of dredged material disposal (DMD) sites. Updating information and strategies will occur during
the County’s period review.

This strategy shall be implemented through review of DMD needs during periodic review, and
through statistical monitoring of DMD fills by the Army Corps of Engineers.

• Policy #21: Mitigation and Restoration Sites

Local government shall support mitigation and restoration actions on the sites specifically
designated in this Plan (see Section 9.10, Potential Mitigation or Restoration Sites).  However,
mitigation and restoration actions shall not necessarily be limited to the identified sites, but may
occur in other areas with suitable potential as permitted in the "Use/Activities" matrix, and subject
to Policy #8, Mitigation Requirements. Local governments shall also cooperate with the Oregon
Department of Fish and Wildlife and the Division of State Lands to form a "mitigation bank"
pursuant to ORS 196.600-655 and 196.830 (renumbered 1989).

This strategy is based upon the recognition of the need for identification of areas to be used to
fulfill the mitigation requirements of Goal #17 and this Plan.

• Policy #22: Mitigation Sites: Protection Against Pre-emptory Uses

Consistent with permitted uses and activities:

~ "High Priority" designated mitigation sites shall be protected from any new uses or
activities which could pre-empt their ultimate use for this purpose.

~ "Medium Priority" designated mitigation sites shall also be protected from uses which
would pre-empt their ultimate use for this purpose.

However, repair of existing dikes or tidegates and improvement of existing drainage ditches is
permitted, with the understanding that the permitting authority (Division of State Lands) overrides
the provisions of Policy #38. Wetland restoration actions designed to answer specific research
questions about wetland mitigation and/or restoration processes and techniques, may be permitted
upon approval by Division of States Lands, and as prescribed by the uses and activities table in this
Plan.

~ "Low Priority" designated mitigation sites are not permanently protected by the Plan. They
are intended to be a supplementary inventory of potential sites that could be used at the
initiative of the landowner. Pre-emptory uses shall be allowed on these sites, otherwise
consistent with uses and activities permitted by the Plan. Any change in priority rating shall
III-107
require a Plan Amendment.

Except as provided above for research of wetland restoration and mitigation processes and
techniques, repair of existing dikes, tidegates and improvement of existing drainable ditches,
"high" and "medium" priority mitigation sits shall be protected from uses and activities which
would pre-empt their ultimate use for mitigation.

I. This policy shall be implemented by:

a. Designating "high" and "medium" priority mitigation sites in the plan inventory.

b. Implementing an administrative review process that allows uses otherwise
permitted by this Plan but proposed within an area designated as a "high" or
"medium" priority mitigation site only upon satisfying all of the following criteria:

1. The proposed use must not entail substantial structural or capital
improvements (such as roads, permanent buildings or non-temporary water
and sewer connections);

2. The proposed use must not require any major alteration of the site that
would affect drainage or reduce the usable volume of the site (such as
extensive site grading/excavation or elevation from fill); and

3. The proposed use must not require site changes that would prevent the
expeditious conversion of the site to estuarine habitat; or

4. For proposed wetland restoration research projects in "medium" priority
mitigation sites the following must be submitted:

i. A written approval of the project from Division of State Lands, and

ii. A description of the proposed research, resource enhancement and
benefits expected

c. Local government's review of and comment on state and federal waterway permit
applications for dike/tidegate and drainage ditch actions.

This policy recognizes that potential mitigation sites must be protected from pre-emptory uses.
However, "low priority" sites are not necessarily appropriate for mitigation use and are
furthermore in plentiful supply. It further recognizes that future availability of "medium priority"
sites will not be pre-empted by repair of existing functional dikes, tidegates and drainage ditches or
otherwise allowed by this policy. This insures the continuation of agricultural production until
such time as sites may be required for mitigation. This policy also recognizes that research
activities designed to gain further understanding of wetland, restoration and mitigation processes
and techniques are needed. The consideration of "medium priority" mitigation sites for this
purpose will facilitate future identification and successful use of mitigation sites (OR 95-11-010PL
1/24/96).

• Policy #22a: Acquisition or Protection of Mitigation/Restoration and Dredged
Material Disposal Sites
III-108

Local governments shall actively promote the acquisition or protection of mitigation/
restoration or dredged material disposal sites through purchase of fee title easements or
development rights, property exchange or other similar methods, in addition to mitigation banking,
as necessary to meet development needs on the Estuary. They shall also investigate such methods
of site protection as "open space taxation" or other means of tax reduction.

This policy recognizes that purchase of an interest in a site is often necessary to afford a higher
degree of protection than zoning can provide.

• Policy 22b: Limiting Dredge and Fill as Estuarine Restoration

I. Local government shall support estuarine dredge or fill actions as estuarine restoration
(pursuant to LCDC Goal 16) only when such restoration will meet the requirements of
administrative rules adopted by the Division of State Lands and only upon findings which
demonstrate the following:

a. Factual assessment of the nature and extent of the estuarine resource believed to
have existed at the proposed restoration site at some time in the past; and

 b. Factual assessment of how the estuarine resource at the site was lost; and

c. Comparison of the resource enhancement expected to result from the proposed
restoration project, together with a determination that the proposed project will, in
fact, probably restore all or some of the resource values lost at the site; and

 d. The fill/removal findings of ORS 196.

This policy shall be implemented by an administrative conditional use review process and response
to requests for comments by the Division of State Lands and Corps of Engineers regarding site or
federal waterway permits.

This policy recognizes that not all estuarine dredge or fill actions may be considered estuarine
restoration pursuant to LCDC Goal 16.

• Policy #23: Riparian Vegetation and Streambank Protection

I. Local government shall strive to maintain riparian vegetation within the shorelands of the
estuary, and when appropriate, restore or enhance it, as consistent with water-dependent
uses. Local government shall also encourage use of tax incentives to encourage
maintenance of riparian vegetation, pursuant to ORS 308.792 - 308.803.

Appropriate provisions for riparian vegetation are set forth in the CCZLDO Section 3.2.180
(OR 92-05-009PL).

II. Local government shall encourage streambank stabilization for the purpose of controlling
streambank erosion along the estuary, subject to other policies concerning structural and
non-structural stabilization measures.

This strategy shall be implemented by Oregon Department of Transportation (ODOT) and local
III-109
government when erosion threatens roads. Otherwise, individual landowners in cooperation with
the Ports of Bandon and Coquille, Coos Soil and Water Conservation District, Watershed Council,
Division of State Lands and Oregon Department of Fish & Wildlife shall be responsible for bank
protection.

This strategy recognizes that the banks of the Coquille Estuary are susceptible to erosion and has
threatened valuable farm land, roads and other structures.

• Policy #24: Special Forest Practice Regulations in Coastal Shorelands

Local governments shall urge the Oregon Department of Forestry to recognize the unique and
special values provided by coastal shorelands when developing standards and policies to regulate
uses of forest lands within coastal shorelands.

This strategy recognizes LCDC Goal #17 "Implementation Requirement #1" and the need for
protection and maintenance of special shoreland values and forest uses especially for natural
shorelands and riparian vegetation.

• Policy #25: Waste Water/Storm Water Discharge

Local government recognizes that Waste Water/Storm Water Discharge must meet state and
federal water quality standards prior to issuance of any permits by the County.

I. Local government shall support Waste Water/Storm Water Discharge, if such activity is
allowed in the respective management unit and:

 a. The activity is required for waste water/storm water discharge; and,

b. the activity is consistent with the resource capabilities of the area (see Policy #4);
and,

c. findings must be made satisfying the impact minimization criterion of Policy #5.

This policy shall be implemented through the conditional use process and through local review and
comment on state and federal permit applications.

This strategy recognizes that Goal #16 provides for Waste Water/Storm Water Discharge; and,
recognizes the technical expertise of Department of Environmental Quality regarding resource
capabilities.

• Policy #26: Agricultural Drainage Facilities

Local governments shall cooperate with Coos Soil and Water Conservation District, local drainage
districts and individual landowners in their efforts to obtain permits and funding for drainage
projects. These projects shall include both improvement and maintenance of existing functional
dikes, tidegates and drainage ditches and construction of new drainage facilities. Areas to be
drained may include 'wet meadow' areas (see Policy #19) currently in agricultural use or with
agricultural soils and not otherwise designated as "significant wildlife habitat" or "major marshes",
subject to Policy #17. Local governments shall also encourage the formation and expansion of
local drainage districts.
III-110

The purpose of this strategy is to reduce damage to economically valuable forage crops by
controlling flooding of saltwater and by alleviating ponding of flood water and high water tables
that cause serious drainage problems for farmers.

This strategy recognizes that flooding is a particular problem of the Coquille River Estuary and
that forage crop quality can be improved and grazing seasons lengthened by effective drainage
facilities. It further recognizes that drainage districts are effective for local control and financing of
agricultural drainage.

• Policy #27: Floodplain Protection within Coastal Shorelands

The respective Flood Regulations of local governments set forth requirements for uses and
activities in identified flood areas; these shall be recognized as implementing ordinances of this
Plan.

This strategy recognizes the risk of substantial loss of stock and property damage resulting from
the widespread flooding of the Coquille River Valley floor which occurs during most winters.

• Policy #27a: Mass Movement

Coos County shall require all development in known areas potentially subject to mass movement
that lie within the Coastal Shorelands Boundary to comply with Policy #6, Natural Hazards, of the
Coos County Comprehensive Plan, Volume 1.

• Policy #28: Recognition of Statewide Planning Goal #3 (Agricultural Lands)
Requirements for Rural Lands within the Coastal Shorelands Boundary

Unless otherwise allowed through an Exception, Coos County shall manage all rural lands
designated within the Coquille River Estuary Coastal Shorelands Boundary as being suitable for
"Exclusive Farm Use" (EFU) designation consistent with the "Agricultural Uses Requirements" of
ORS 215.

This policy shall be implemented by using the Special Considerations Map to identify EFU-
suitable areas, and to abide by the prescriptive use and activity requirements of ORS 215 except
where otherwise allowed by exceptions for needed housing and industrial sites.

All EFU zoned land within the Coastal Shoreland Boundary shall be designated as "Other
Aggregate Sites" inventoried by this Plan pursuant to ORS 215.298(2). These sites shall be
inventoried as "1B" resources in accordance with OAR 660-16-000(5)(b). Coos County will re-
evaluate these inventoried sites pursuant to the requirements of said rule at or before the time of
periodic review of the Comprehensive Plan. [OR-92-08-113PL 10/28/92]

• Policy #28a: (Reserved)

• Policy #29: Restricting Actions in Beach and Dune Areas that are "Unsuitable for
Development"

Unless otherwise allowed through an Exception, Coos County shall prohibit residential
III-111
development, and commercial and industrial buildings within areas designated as "Beach and
Dune Areas Unsuitable for Development" on the Coquille River Estuary Special Considerations
Map.

I. Further, Coos County shall permit other developments in these areas only:

 a. When specific findings have been made which consider:

1. type of use proposed and the adverse effects it might have on the site and
adjacent areas; and

2. need for temporary and permanent stabilization programs and planned
maintenance of new and existing vegetation; and

3. methods for protecting the surrounding area from any adverse effects of the
development; and

4. hazards to life, public and private property, and the natural environment
which may be caused by the proposed use; and

5. whether drawdown of groundwater would lead to loss of stabilizing
vegetation, loss of water quality, or intrusion of salt water into water
supplies; and

 b. When it is demonstrated that the proposed development:

1. is adequately protected from any geologic hazards, wind erosion,
undercutting, ocean flooding and storm waves; or is of minimal value; and

  2. is designed to minimize adverse environmental effects; and

c. When specific findings have been made, where breaching of foredunes is
contemplated, that:

1. the breaching and restoration after breaching is consistent with sound
principles of conservation; and either

2. the breaching is necessary to replenish sand supply in interdune areas; or

3. the breaching is done on a temporary basis in an emergency (e.g., fire
control, cleaning up oil spills, draining farm lands, and alleviating flood
hazards).

II. This policy shall be implemented through:

a. review of the Coquille River Estuary Special Considerations Map when
development is proposed in these areas; and

b. an administrative conditional use process where findings are developed based upon
a site investigation report submitted by the developer which addresses the
III-112
considerations set forth above.

III. This policy recognizes that:

a. The Special Considerations Map category of "Beach and Dune Areas Unsuitable for
Development" includes the following dune forms:

  1. beaches,

  2. active foredunes,

3. other foredunes which are conditionally stable and that are subject to ocean
undercutting or wave overtopping, and

  4. interdune areas (deflation plains) that are subject to ocean flooding.

b. The measures prescribed in this policy are specifically required by Statewide
Planning Goal #18 for the above-referenced dune forms; and that

c. it is important to ensure that development in sensitive beach and dune areas is
compatible with or can be made compatible with the fragile and hazardous
conditions common to such areas.

• Policy #30: Restricting Actions in Beach and Dune Areas with "Limited
Development Suitability"; and Special Consideration for Sensitive Beach and
Dune Resources

I. Coos County shall permit development within areas designated as "Beach and Dune Areas
with Limited Development Suitability" on the Coquille River Estuary Special
Considerations Map only upon the establishment of findings that shall include at least:

a. type of use proposed and the adverse effects it might have on the site and adjacent
areas; and

b. temporary and permanent stabilization programs and the planned maintenance of
new and existing vegetation; and

c. need for methods for protecting the surrounding area from any adverse effects of
the development; and

d. hazards to life, public and private property, and the natural environment which may
be caused by the proposed use; and

e. whether drawdown of groundwater would lead to loss of stabilizing vegetation, loss
of water quality, or intrusion of saltwater into water supplies.

Implementation shall occur through a site plan review process, which shall include submission of a
site investigation report by the developer that addresses the five considerations above.

II. This policy recognizes that:
III-113

a. The Special Considerations Map category of "Beach and Dune Areas with Limited
Development Suitability" includes all dune forms except older stabilized dunes,
active foredunes, conditionally stabilized foredunes that are subject to ocean
undercutting or wave overtopping, and interdune areas (deflation plains) subject to
ocean flooding;

b. measures prescribed in this policy are specifically required by LCDC Goal #18 for
the above-referenced dune forms, and that;

c. it is important to ensure that development in sensitive beach and dune areas is
compatible with, or can be made compatible with, the fragile and hazardous
conditions common to beach and dune areas.

III. Permits for beachfront protective structures shall be issued only where development existed
on January 1, 1977 (see Section 3. Definitions for "development"). Criteria for review of all
shore and beachfront protective structures shall provide that:

 a. visual impacts are minimized;

 b. necessary access to the beach is maintained;

 c. negative impacts on adjacent property are minimized; and

 d. long-term or recurring costs to the public are avoided.

IV. Local government shall cooperate with state and federal agencies in regulating the
following actions in beach and dune areas by sending notification of Administrative
Conditional Use decision:

a. destruction of desirable vegetation (including inadvertent destruction by moisture
loss or root damage);

 b. the exposure of stable and conditionally stable areas to erosion;

c. construction of shore structures which modify current or wave patterns leading to
beach erosion; and

 d. any other development actions with potential adverse impacts.

V. This strategy shall be implemented through:

a. the Administrative Conditional Use application process as described previously,
and

b. review and comment by local government on state and federal permits in beach and
dune areas.

This strategy recognizes that regulation of these actions is necessary to minimize potential erosion.

III-114
• Policy #31: (Reserved)

• Policy #32: Boat Ramps

Local government shall encourage the provision of new boat ramps and facilities in areas
designated to allow that use.

This strategy recognizes the need for facilities to accommodate recreational boating access.

• Policy #33: Water-Based Recreation

Local governments support increased use of the Coquille River for water-based recreation.

This strategy recognizes that water-based recreation is an opportunity for economic growth
through tourism.

• Policy #33a:  Bandon Waterfront Project and Waterfront Communities

I. Local governments shall support the Bandon downtown revitalization project on the
Bandon waterfront.

This policy recognizes that maintenance and enhancement of historic, unique and scenic waterfront
communities are important cultural and economic assets.

II. Local governments shall support the maintenance and enhancement of historic, unique and
scenic waterfront communities such as downtown Bandon.

This policy recognizes the value of historic, unique and scenic waterfront communities when such
are identified by local governments.

• Policy #33b: (Reserved)

• Policy #34: Recognition of Statewide Planning Goal #4 (Forest Lands)
Requirements for Forest Lands within the Coastal Shorelands Boundary

Unless otherwise allowed through an Exception, Coos County shall manage all rural lands
designated on the Coquille River Estuary Special Considerations Map as "Forest Lands" within the
Coastal Shorelands Boundary consistent with the "Forest Uses" requirements of LCDC Goal #4.

Where the County's Comprehensive Plan identified major marshes, significant wildlife habitat and
riparian vegetation on coastal shorelands subject to forest operations governed by the Forest
Practices Act, the Forest Practice program and rules of the Department of Forestry shall be carried
out in such a manner as to protect and maintain the special shoreland values of the major marshes,
significant wildlife habitat areas, and forest uses especially for natural shorelands and riparian
vegetation.

This policy shall be implemented by using the Special Considerations Map to identify "Forest
III-115
Lands", and to abide by the prescriptive use and activity requirements of Statewide Planning Goal
#4 in lieu of other management alternatives otherwise allowed for properties within the "Forest
Lands-overlay" set forth on the Special Considerations Map, and except where otherwise allowed
by Exception for needed housing and industrial sites.

This policy recognizes that the requirements of Statewide Planning Goal #4 are equal and not
subordinate to other management requirements of this Plan for "Forest Lands" located within the
Coastal Shorelands Boundary.

• Policy #35: Plan Implementation

I. Coos County's on-going land use and community development planning process shall
utilize the Planning Commission as its citizen involvement public consideration of the following:

 a. Identification of new planning problems and issues.

b. Collection and analysis of inventories and other pertinent factual information.

c. Evaluation of alternative courses of action and ultimate policy choices.

d. Recommendation of policy directives, based upon consideration of the County's
social, economic, energy and environmental needs.

This strategy is based upon the recognition that Coos County's public planning process is essential
to producing rational land use and community development policies are the basis of this Plan, and
which must be the basis for future plan revisions and modifications.

II. This Plan (including the coordinated Coquille River Estuary and Shorelands Joint
Management Agreement policies) shall be the legal basis for all land use and community
development regulations lying within the unincorporated portions of the Coquille River
Estuary and its shorelands as defined in this Plan.

This strategy is based on the recognition that the zoning map, zoning and land development
ordinances are simply implementation tools carry out the expressed policies and intent of the Plan.

• Policy #36:  Plan Update

I. Coos County shall:

a. conduct a formal review of this Plan and its implementing measure to determine if
any revision is needed;

 b. base its review upon re-examination of data, problems and issues;

 c. issue public statement as to whether any revision is needed;

d. coordinate with other jurisdictions which are included within the Coquille River
Estuary and its shorelands; and

 e. incorporate public input into its decision.
III-116

Coos County may rely on the formal "periodic review" of this Plan to satisfy the requirements of
this policy.

This strategy is based on the recognition that a periodic review is necessary to keep this Plan
current with local situations and events, which may change from time to time and reduce the Plan's
ability to effectively and appropriately guide growth of the Coquille River Estuary and its
shorelands.

Coos County shall approve minor revisions/amendments to its Comprehensive Plan when justified.
Minor revisions/amendments are smaller in scope than major revisions/amendments, and generally
include, but are not limited to, changes in uses and activities allowed and changes in standards and
conditions.

This strategy recognizes that frequent approval of major plan revisions could ruin the integrity of
this Plan, but that infrequent major changes must be made when need is established.

• Policy #37:  County Plan Revisions and Amendments (Does not apply to
provisions affecting City Management Units): Public Hearing Procedure

Coos County shall exercise due process in considering amendments to this Plan. Public hearing
procedures are set forth in the Coos County Zoning and Land Development Ordinance (CCZLDO)
OR 92-05-009PL.

• Policy #38:  Grandfathering of Existing Nonconforming Uses and Structures

Coos County shall permit the continuation of legally established existing uses and structures
(located outside incorporated city limits) that do not conform to the provisions of this Plan and its
implementing ordinances.

I. This policy shall be implemented:

a. following the provision about non-conforming uses legally required by ORS
215.130 and ORS 215.215, and which regulate and allow the continued existence of
non-conforming uses and the alteration and expansion of such uses; and

 b. more specific implementing ordinance measures.

This policy is based on the recognition that Coos County is morally and legally bound to honor the
traditional provisions of the "grandfather" concept.

• Policy #39:  Citizen Involvement

The Citizen Involvement Program presented in Volume 1, Part 1, Section 5.1 of the Coos County
Comprehensive Plan shall be regarded as the Citizen Involvement Program for the Coquille River
Estuary Management Plan.

• Policy #40:  Conflict Resolution

III-117
Local governments shall apply an "overall conflict resolution policy" to Estuary Plan
implementation situations where one policy or set of policies is believed to conflict with another
policy or set of policies.

This "overall conflict resolution policy" shall consist of the following:

To resolve perceived conflicts between policy provisions, if and when such perception may
occur, long-term environmental, economic, social and energy consequences expected to
result from applying one strategy in place of another, shall be considered; the strategy that
results in maximum public benefit, as supported by findings of fact, shall then be applied.

This policy is based on the recognition that every possible attempt has been made in the
development of these policies to balance the conflicting objectives of the respective policies, but
also that perceived conflicts may nevertheless surface as this Estuary Plan is implemented.

• Policy #41:  Maintenance of Inventories and Factual Base

The Board of Commissioners shall instruct the Planning Commission to undertake special studies
and projects deemed beneficial to the community and/or necessary to keep current certain key
inventories that are the factual basis of this Estuary Plan.

This strategy shall be implemented through on-going Planning Commission efforts to keep a
statistical data base on Coos County's changing socio-economic characteristics -- including, but
not limited to, population and housing data, employment statistics, traffic counts, agricultural
production, etc.

I. This strategy recognizes the necessity of keeping key planning information current, and
further that County efforts to do so would be largely limited to collecting and analyzing
data compiled initially by other agencies. Further, the strategy recognizes that special
projects, like neighborhood traffic studies, may be necessary to help resolve unanticipated,
small-scale community problems. Further, the strategy recognizes:

a. the Planning Director may assist the Planning Commission in conducting necessary
research as ordered; and

b. the County may wish to continue a skeletal long-range planning staff, as necessary
to provide technical support in efforts to maintain and update the Plan; and

c. state funds will likely be available to help defray the local costs of such activities.

• Policy #42: Special Allowance for Accessory Housing

I. Local government may allow dwellings as an accessory use to any of the following legally-
established uses:

 a. Agriculture, as otherwise consistent with Strategy #28;

 b. Airports;

 c. Aquaculture;
III-118

 d. Commercial;

 e. Docks and Moorage/Marinas;

 f. Industrial;

 g. Log Storage and Sorting Yard;

 h. Mining and Mineral Extraction;

 i. Recreational Uses;

 j. Solid Waste Disposal;

 k. Timber Farming/Harvesting, as otherwise consistent with Policy #34;

 l. Utilities.

II. Accessory dwellings shall only be allowed when findings document that:

a. The dwelling is for a watchman or caretaker that needs to reside on-premise; and

b. That the primary purpose of the dwelling is not to provide rental housing.

This policy shall be implemented through ordinance measures.

This policy recognizes the need for flexibility in allowing watchmen and caretaker dwellings in
conjunction with certain commercial, industrial and other uses.

• Policy #43:  Interpretation of Coastal Shorelands Boundary

When a development is in the immediate vicinity of the Coastal Shorelands Boundary (CSB) and
when such proposed development relies on a precise interpretation of the CSB, local government
shall establish the precise location of the CSB using the seven criteria specified in the Coastal
Shorelands Goal #17. Establishment of the exact location may require an on-site inspection. If the
location of the CSB as shown on the Plan maps or Coastal Shorelands Inventory map is
subsequently found to be inaccurate or misleading, the Planning Director shall make the
appropriate determination and minor adjustments to the maps.

I. This policy recognizes:

a. precise location of the Coastal Shorelands Boundary may be critical for certain
types of actions, e.g., land divisions; and

b. certain features such as riparian vegetation cannot be mapped with complete
accuracy at the scale of 1" = 800'.

• Policy #44:  Planned Unit Development or Density Transfer Development on
Parcels which are Partially within the Coastal Shorelands Boundary
III-119

This policy shall apply only to coastal shorelands within the unincorporated area. Where a parcel
lies partially within the Coastal Shorelands Boundary (CSB), Coos County shall consider the
portion within the CSB to be part of the total acreage for the purposes of Planned Unit
Developments, Recreational Planned Unit Developments and Density Transfer Developments,
provided that no new parcels are thereby created within the CSB in rural areas.

This policy recognizes that while land divisions are restricted within rural shorelands, this does not
preclude the transfer of certain development rights to the portions of a parcel upland from the CSB.

• Policy #45:  (Reserved)

• Policy #46:  (Reserved)

• Policy #47:  Goal #5 Sites

Goal #5 bird habitat is addressed in detail in Volume I, Part 2 of the Coos County Comprehensive
Plan. This narrative is hereby adopted as part of the Coquille River Estuary Management Plan
(CREMP).

Further, the Policies of Volume I, Part I of the Plan, pertaining to "5b" and "5c" Goal #5 bird sites
are hereby adopted as part of the CREMP.

This strategy shall be implemented by contacting Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife for
review and comment on proposed development within the area of a 5b or 5c bird site.