II - 1

CHAPTER II

DEFINITIONS
II - 2

CHAPTER II. DEFINITIONS

ARTICLE 2.1. DEFINITIONS

 SECTION 2.1.100. General Definitions.

For the purposes of this Ordinance, unless it is plainly evident from the context that a different
meaning is intended, certain words and terms are herein defined.

 SECTION 2.1.200. Specific Definitions.

ACCESSORY USE: A use, building or structure that is (1) customarily incidental and
subordinate to the principal use, main building or structure, and (2) subordinate in extent, area
and purpose to the principal use. A use that constitutes, in effect, conversion to a use not
permitted in the district is not an accessory use.

ACCRETION: The build-up of land along a beach or shore by the deposition of waterborne or
airborne sand, sediment, or other material.

ACTIVITY: Any action taken either in conjunction with a use or to make a use possible.
Activities do not in and of themselves result in a specific use. Several activities such as dredging,
piling, fill may be undertaken for a single use such as a port facility. Most activities may take
place in conjunction with a variety of uses.

AGGREGATE EXPLORATION:  The act of searching for aggregate resources.

AGGREGATE MINING:  The process of removing aggregate resources from the earth.

AGGREGATE PROCESSING:  The act of processing an aggregate resource into a refined
product.

AGGREGATE RESOURCES:  Any of several hard inert materials (such as sand, gravel, quarry
rock or slag).

AGRICULTURE: Farm use, as defined by ORS 215.203(2)(a), except that in non-EFU areas,
agriculture does not have to be for the primary purpose of obtaining a profit in money. Generally,
agriculture includes the raising of livestock and harvesting crops using acceptable farming
practices and structures and facilities relating to these uses.

AGRICULTURAL BUILDING, as provided in ORS 455.315, means a structure customarily
provided in conjunction with farm use or forest use for:
a. Storage, maintenance or repair of farm or forestry machinery and equipment;
b. The raising, harvesting and selling of crops or forest products;
c. The feeding, breeding, management and sale of, or the produce of, livestock, poultry,
fur-bearing animals or honeybees;
II - 3
d. Dairying and the sale of dairy products; or
e. Any other agricultural, forestry or horticultural use or animal husbandry, or any
combination thereof, including the preparation and storage of the produce raised on
the farm for human use and animal use, the preparation and storage of forest products
and the disposal, by means of marketing or otherwise, of farm produce or forest
products.

AGRICULTURAL BUILDING does not include:
a. A dwelling or use accessory to a residential use;
b. A structure where 10 or more persons are present at any one time except for the
purpose of growing plants;
c. A structure regulated by the State Fire Marshal per ORS chapter 476;
d. A structure for public use; or
e. A structure located within the floodplain and subject to Floodplain restrictions.

Note: Mechanical, plumbing and electrical permits may still be required for a Building-permit
exempt Agricultural Building.

AGRICULTURAL LANDS:  Those lands designated in the Coos County Comprehensive Plan
(Volume 1 "Balance of County") for inclusion in Exclusive Farm Use (EFU) Zones. These lands
include Soil Capability class I, II, III, and IV lands as defined by the United States Soil
Conservation Service in their Soil Capability Classification system and other ands suitable for
farm use.

AIRPORT/HELIPORT, AERIAL-RELATED OFFICES:  Offices that are related to airborne
operations.

AIRPORT/HELIPORT, AERO CLUBS:  Aviation clubs.

AIRPORT/HELIPORT, AERO SALES, REPAIR AND STORAGE:  Commercial uses directly
related to aviation.

AIRPORT/HELIPORT, AERO SCHOOLS:  Aviation schools.

AIRPORT/HELIPORT, AIR OPERATIONS FACILITIES:  A facility or structures necessary or
incidental to the operation of the landing and take-off of aircraft and receiving and discharging
passengers and cargo, including but not limited to:  navigational aids, runways, control towers,
wind monitors, hangars, tie-downs, aircraft storage and repair, and refueling facilities.

AIRPORT/HELIPORT, COMMERCIAL USE:  An airport/heliport that functions as an air trans-
shipment facility for commercial freight and passengers.

AIRPORT/HELIPORT, PERSONAL USE:  An air strip restricted except for aircraft
emergencies, to the use by the owner(s), and on infrequent and occasional basis, by his invited
guests, and by commercial aviation activities in connection with agricultural or forestry
operations.
II - 4

AIRPORTS: Terminal stations for aircraft, passenger, and cargo operations, including runways,
towers, and associated structures.

ALTERATION:  An alteration includes but is not limited to a change in construction or a change
in occupancy.  When the term is used in connection with a change of occupancy it is intended to
apply to changes from one trade or use to another, or from one division of a trade or use to
another.  Structural alterations include any change or repair which would tend to prolong the life
of the supporting members of the building or structure, such as alterations of bearing walls,
foundations, columns, beams or girders.  Any change in the external dimension of a building
shall be considered a structural alteration.

ANADROMOUS: Referring to fish, such as salmon, which hatch in fresh water, migrate to
ocean waters to grow and mature, and return to fresh waters to spawn.

AQUACULTURE: Raising, feeding, planting, and harvesting fish and shellfish, and associated
facilities necessary for such use.

AQUATIC: Of or pertaining to water.

ARCHAEOLOGICAL RESOURCES: Those districts, sites, buildings, structures and artifacts
which possess material evidence of human life and culture of the prehistoric and historic past.

AREA OF SHALLOWING FLOODING:  A designated AO or AH Zone on the Flood Insurance
Rate Map (FIRM).  The base flood depths range from one to three feet; a clearly defined channel
does not exist;  the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate; and, velocity flow may
be evident.  AO is characterized as sheet flow and AH indicates ponding.

AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:  The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year designated with the
letters “A” or “V” on the implemented maps.

ARGUMENT: Assertions and analysis regarding the satisfaction or violation of legal standards
or policy believed relevant by the proponent to a decision. Argument does not include facts.

AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC:  A computation of the daily vehicular trips.

AVULSION: A tearing away or separation by the force of water.  Land which is separated from
uplands or adjacent properties by the action of a stream or river cutting through the land to form
a new stream bed.

AUXILIARY:  A use or alteration of a structure or land which provides help or is directly
associated with the conduct of a particular forest practice.  An auxiliary structure is located on
site, temporary in nature, and is not designed to remain for the forest's entire growth cycle from
planting to harvesting.  An auxiliary use is removed when a particular forest practice has
concluded.
II - 5

BASE FLOOD (ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD):  The flood having a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year designated with the letters “A” or “V” on the
implemented maps.

BASEMENT:  means any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground level) on
all sides.

BEACH: Gently sloping areas of loose material (e.g., sand, gravel, and cobbles) that extend
landward from the low-water line to a point where there is a definite change in the material type
or landform, or to the line of vegetation.

BED AND BREAKFAST:  Consistent with OAR 333-170-0000(2) a Bed and Breakfast is any
establishment located in a structure designed for a single family residence and structures
accessory thereto, regardless of whether the owner or operator of the establishment resides in any
of the structures, which:
(a) Has three or more rooms for rent on a daily basis to the public;
(b) Offers a breakfast meal as part of the cost of the room;
(c) Serves one breakfast meal a day to guests, staff, and owners, only.

BELOW-GRADE CRAWL SPACE:  means an enclosed area below the base flood elevation in
which the interior grade is not more than two feet below the lowest adjacent exterior grade and
the height, measured from the interior grade of the crawl space to the top of the crawl space
foundation, does not exceed 4 feet at any point.

BENTHIC: Living on or within the bottom sediments in water bodies.

BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS:  The Coos County Board of Commissioners.

BOARDING OF HORSES (FOR PROFIT):  A building, structure or premises where lodging, or
meals and lodging, are offered for compensation for the purpose of caring for horses.

BOARDING OF HORSES (RIDING STABLE):  A building, structure or premises where horses
are rented or leased to persons other than the owner of the horse.

BREAKAWAY WALL:  A wall that is not a part of the structural support of the building and is
intended through its design and construction to collapse under specific lateral loading forces,
without causing damage to the elevated portion of the building or supporting foundation system.

BREAKFAST MEAL: Consistent with OAR 333-170-0000(3) a breakfast meal is the meal
served to guests during the a.m. or morning hours each day.

BRIDGE:  A structure carrying a pathway or roadway over a depression or obstacle.

BRIDGE CROSSINGS:  The portion of a bridge spanning a waterway not including supporting
structures or fill located in the waterway or adjacent wetlands.
II - 6

BRIDGE CROSSING SUPPORT STRUCTURES: Piers, pilings, and similar structures
necessary to support a bridge span including fill for causeways or approaches.  Pillars, bulkheads
and similar structures used in bridge construction.

BULKHEAD: A retaining wall along a waterfront that separates uplands from aquatic areas.

BURDEN OF PROOF: Except as otherwise provided, the applicant shall bear the burden of
proof that the proposal is in compliance with the applicable standards. In addition, evidence of
mistake in adoption of the plan designation or development regulations or subsequent change in
the affected area is relevant considerations. Unless specifically identified as jurisdictional, failure
to comply with a provision of the Coos County Zoning and Land Development Ordinance shall
invalidate an action only if it prejudices the substantial rights of the person alleging the error.
Persons alleging procedural error shall have the burden of proof as to whether the error occurred
and whether the error has prejudiced the person’s substantial rights.

CAMPGROUND:  A lot, tract or parcel of land under single ownership where two or more
campsites are located which provide facilities for living in other than a permanent dwelling or
recreational vehicle.

CARRYING CAPACITY: Level of use which can be accommodated and continued without
irreversible impairment of natural resources productivity, the ecosystem and the quality of air,
land and water resources.

CEMETERY:  Land dedicated, used or intended to be used for the burial of the dead, including
columbariums, crematories, mausoleums and mortuaries when operated in conjunction with and
within the boundary of such cemetery.

CHANGE:  Any alteration, expansion, restoration, construction, remodeling or renovation of a
structure or use.

CHANGE IN USE. A change in tenant or activity occupying a parcel of land, a premise or
structure, which creates a change in vehicular trip generation activities, changes the parking
classification as set forth in Article 7.5 Parking Standards.

CHANNELIZE: To straighten the bed or banks of a stream or river or to line them with concrete
or other materials.

CITIZEN: Any individual who resides or owns property, within the planning area; any public or
private entity or association within the planning area, including corporations, governmental and
private agencies, associations, firms, partnerships, joint stock companies and any group of
citizens.

CITIZEN ADVISORY COMMITTEE:  A seven (7) person body made-up of Coos County
Citizens that are broadly representative of the County’s geographic area, diverse professional
II - 7
backgrounds and public interests related to land use.  Committee Members are appointed by the
Board of Commissioners. (OR-01-01-001PL  8/1/01)

COASTAL HEADLANDS:  see "Headlands" definition.

COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREA:  An area of special flood hazard extending from offshore
to the inland limit of a primary frontal dune along the open ocean and any other area subject to
high velocity wave action from storm or seismic sources.  This area is designated on the FIRM as
Zone V1-V30, VE or V.

COASTAL LAKES:  Lakes in the coastal zone that are bordered by a dune formation and, that
have a direct hydrologic surface or subsurface connection with saltwater.

COASTAL SHORELAND: Those areas immediately by oceans, and land next to estuaries.

COASTAL SHORELAND AREA: The lands lying between the Coastal Shorelands Boundary
set forth elsewhere in this Plan and the line of nonaquatic vegetation, which is also known as the
Section 404 Line.

COASTAL STREAM: Any stream within the coastal zone.

COASTAL WATERS: Territorial ocean waters of the continental shelf; estuaries; and coastal
lakes.

COASTAL ZONE: The area lying between the Washington Border on the north to the California
border on the south, bounded on the west by the extent of the state's jurisdiction, and in the east
by the crest of the coastal mountain range, with the exception of: (a) The Umpqua River basin,
where the coastal zone shall extend to Scottsburg; (b) The Rogue River basin, where the coastal
zone shall extend to Agness; (c) The Columbia river basin, where the coastal zone shall extend to
the downstream end of Puget Island (Formerly ORS 191.110).

COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES IN CONJUNCTION WITH FARM USE:  Commercial activities
including sales, repair, and storage when in conjunction with a farm use.

COMMERCIAL - ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS:  A business or establishment
which has an area or place in which or upon which because of ORS 167.060 to 167.100, minors
may not be permitted to enter or remain except when accompanied by a parent or lawful
guardian.

COMMERCIAL USES: Privately-owned or operated facility or place of business open to the
public for sale of goods or services.

COMMITTED AREAS:  A measure of the density of residential development, as defined by the
criteria outlined in Coos County Comprehensive Plan.

II - 8
COMMON BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT:  The adjustment or relocation of a boundary line
between two or more lots, parcels or tracts, where an additional lot, parcel or tract is not created
and where the existing parcel reduced in size by the adjustment is not reduced below the
minimum lot size established by this Ordinance.

COMMON OPEN SPACE:  Land and facilities which are shared by all the individual owners in
a planned unit development or recreational planned unit development and managed generally by
a home owners' association.  Common property may include undeveloped land, parks, tennis
courts, pools, community buildings, and other amenities for the convenience and enjoyment of
the residents.

COMMUNITY CENTER, GRANGE OR LODGE HALL:  A building or group of buildings for
a community's education, recreational, or fraternal activities.

COMMUNITY SEWER SYSTEM:  A sewage disposal system which has service connection to
at least 15 permanent dwelling units, including manufactured homes, within the unincorporated
communities.

COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM:  A system that distributes potable water through pipes to at
least 15 permanent dwelling units, including manufactured homes within the unincorporated
community.

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:  The Coos County Comprehensive Plan.

COMPATIBILITY: Means that the proposed use is capable of existing together with the
surrounding uses without discord or disharmony.  The test is where the proposed use is
compatible with the existing surrounding uses, and not potential or future uses in the surround
area.  The surrounding area consists of the notification area for the project as set out in § 5.0.900.

CONDITIONAL USE:  The term applied to a use which may be permitted by the issuance of a
conditional use permit.

CONFLICTING USE:  is a land use, or other activity reasonably and customarily subject to land
use regulations, that could adversely affect a significant Goal 5 resource (except as provided in
OAR 660-023-0180(1)(b)).  Local governments are not required to regard agricultural practices
as conflicting uses.

CONSERVATION:  The act of conserving the environment.

CONSERVATION AQUATIC AREA (CA): An aquatic management unit (See Volume II, Part
1, Section 3.5)

CONSERVATION MANAGEMENT UNIT:  In all estuaries, except those in the overall Oregon
Estuary Classification which are classed for preservation, areas shall be designated for long-term
uses of renewable resources that do not require major alteration of the estuary, except for the
purpose of restoration. These areas shall be managed to conserve the natural resources and
II - 9
benefits. These shall include areas needed for maintenance and enhancement of biological
productivity, recreational and aesthetic uses, and aquaculture. They shall include tracts of
significant habitat smaller or of less biological importance then those in the "Natural"
management unit, and recreational or commercial oyster and clam beds not included in the
"Natural" management unit.  Areas that are partially altered and adjacent to existing development
of moderate intensity which do not possess the resource characteristics of natural or development
units may also be included in this classification.

CONSERVATION SHORELAND AREA(CS): A shoreland management unit(See Volume
II,Part1,Section 3.5)

CONSERVATION USE:  To keep in a safe or sound state to avoid wasteful or destructive use of
natural resources.

CONSERVE:  To manage in a manner, which avoids wasteful or destructive uses and provides
for future availability.

CONSISTENT:  As defined by Black's Law Dictionary: "having agreement with itself or
something else; accordant; harmonious; congruous; compatible; compliable; not contradictory".
Further, "consistent with" means "in harmony with".

CONSTRUCTION PLANS:  Detailed engineering drawings of a proposed development.

CONTAMINATED SOIL LAND FARMING:  An activity regulated by the Oregon Department
of Environmental Quality that entails the treatment for reuse of oil contaminated soil generated
from any tract, parcel or lot other than the site on which the treatment activity is to occur. [OR
93-02-033PL 3/30/93]

CONTIGUOUS:  Adjoining with a common boundary of two or more points (see Section
3.3.800). Properties shall not be considered contiguous if divided by:  a) a public dedicated road,
public dedicated alleyway, County road, State or Federal highway; or, b) a water body, when the
underlying fee ownership is claimed by the State; or, c) an intervening ownership.

CONTINENTAL SHELF:  The area seaward from the ocean shore to the distance when the
ocean depth is 200 meters, or where the ocean floor slopes more steeply to the deep ocean floor.
The area beyond the state's jurisdiction is the OUTER Continental Shelf.

CONVENIENCE STORE:  A retail establishment that provides prepackaged and prepared food
products and frequently or recurrently needed small personal items that fulfill the day to day
needs of residents or users of the immediate service area.

CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION, JAIL, PENAL FARM:  A building or area for the
confinement of persons held in lawful custody.

II - 10
COTTAGE INDUSTRY & HOME OCCUPATIONS:  Cottage Industries and Home
Occupations are “in-home” businesses that are operated as an Accessory Use to the Primary
residential use by the resident of the lawfully established Dwelling.

A Cottage Industry is a Home Occupation that may occupy a portion of an existing residential
Accessory Structure (garage/shop) but the primary portion of the business shall be conducted in
the dwelling.  A Home Occupation operates within a dwelling, which has characteristics that are
indistinguishable from the residential use of a dwelling.

This use is further defined and regulated by Oregon Administrative Rule for Farm and Forest
Zones.

CRITICAL FACILITY:  means a facility for which even a slight change of flooding might be
too great.  Critical facilities include, but are not limited to schools, nursing homes, hospitals,
police, fire and emergency response installations, installations which produce, use or store
hazardous materials or hazardous waste.

DAMS:  A barrier built across a watercourse for impounding water.

DATE OF CREATION AND EXISTENCE (FARM & FOREST LOT OF RECORD): When a
lot, parcel or tract is reconfigured pursuant to applicable law after November 4, 1993, the effect
of, which is to qualify a lot, parcel or tract for the siting of a dwelling, the date of the
reconfiguration is the date of creation or existence.  Reconfigured means any change in the
boundary of the lot, parcel or tract.

DEFLATION PLAIN:  The broad interdune area which is wind-scoured to the level of the
summer water table.

DENSITY: The intensity of residential land uses per acre, stated as the number ofdwelling units
per gross acre.  There shall be one dwelling per lawfully created parcel unless otherwise allowed
by the Coos County Zoning and Land Development Ordinance or Comprehensive Plan.

DETENTION:  Temporary storage of water.  Typically, low areas that store floodwater.

DEVELOP:  To bring about growth or availability; to construct or alter a structure, to conduct a
mining operation, to make a physical change in the use or appearance of land, to divide land into
parcels, or to create or terminate rights to access.

DEVELOPMENT:   The act, process or result of developing.

DEVELOPMENT AQUATIC AREA (DA):  An aquatic management unit  (See Volume II, Part
1, Section 3.5)

DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT UNIT:  In estuaries classified in the overall Oregon Estuary
Classification for more intense development or alteration, areas shall be designated to provide for
navigation and other identified needs for public, commercial, and industrial water-dependent
II - 11
uses, consistent with the level of development or alteration allowed by the overall Oregon
Estuary Classification. Such areas shall include deep-water areas adjacent or in proximity to the
shoreline, navigation channels, subtidal areas for in-water disposal of dredged material and areas
of minimal biological significance needed for uses requiring alterations of the estuary not
included in "Natural and Conservation" management units.

DEVELOPMENT SHORELAND AREA (D):A shoreland management unit (See Volume II,
Part 1, Section 3.5)

DEVELOPMENT USE:  Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to building or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading,
paving, excavation, drilling operations, or storage of equipment or materials  located within the
area of special flood hazard.

DIKES: Structures designed and built to prevent inundation of a parcel of land by water. A dike
is considered new when placed on an area which:(1) has previously never been diked, or (2) has
previously been diked, but all or a substantial part of the area is subject to tidal inundation and
tidal marsh has been re-established. Maintenance and repair refer to: (a) existing serviceable
dikes (including those that allow some seasonal inundation), and (b) those that have been
damaged by flooding, tidegate failure, etc., but where reversion to tidal marsh has not yet
occurred, except in drainage ways.

DIVERSITY:  The variety of natural, environmental, economic, and social resources, values,
benefits, and activities.

 DRAINAGE (including TIDEGATING): The construction and maintenance of drainage
channels including the disposal of resulting dredged material, construction and maintenance of
tidegates, tideboxes, pumphouses, and associated structures.

DREDGED MATERIAL DISPOSAL: The deposition of dredged material in aquatic or upland
areas.  Methods of disposal include, in-water disposal, beach and land disposal, and ocean
disposal:  (1)  In-water Disposal is the deposition of dredged materials in a body of water;  (2)
Ocean Disposal is the deposition of dredged materials in the ocean;  (3)  Beach Disposal is the
deposition of dredged materials in beachfront areas west of the foredunes;  (4)  Land disposal is
the deposition of dredged materials landward of the line of non-aquatic vegetation, in "upland"
areas.

DREDGING:   The removal of sediment or other material from a stream, river, estuary or other
aquatic area:  (1)  Maintenance Dredging refers to dredging necessary to maintain functional
depths in maintained channels, or adjacent to existing docks and related facilities;  (2)  New
Dredging refers to deepening either an existing authorized navigation channel or deepening a
natural channel, or to create a marina or other dock facilities, or to obtain fill for the North Bend
Airport runway extension project;  (3)  Dredging to Maintain Dikes and Tidegates refers to
dredging necessary to provide material for existing dikes and tidegates;  (4)  Minor dredging
refers to small amounts of removal as necessary, for instance, for a boat ramp. Minor dredging
may exceed 50 cubic yards, and therefore require a permit.
II - 12

DEFLATION PLAIN: The broad interdune area which is wind scoured to the level of the
summer water table.

DRIVEWAY:  A private vehicular travel surface accessing a single residence.

DRYLAND MOORAGE: Boat moorage space provided on dry land, such that boats are
mechanically lowered to and raised from the water.

DUNE: A hill or ridge of sand built up by the wind along sandy coasts.

DUNE, ACTIVE: A dune that migrates, grows and diminishes from the face of wind and supply
of sand. Active dunes include all open sand dunes, active hummocks, and active foredunes.

DUNE COMPLEX:  Various patterns of small dunes with partially stabilized intervening areas.

DUNE, CONDITIONALLY STABLE: A dune presently in a stable condition, but vulnerable to
becoming active due to fragile vegetative cover.

DUNE HUMMOCK, ACTIVE: Partially vegetated (usually with beach grass), circular, and
elevated mounds of sand which are actively growing in size.

DUNE, OLDER STABILIZED: A dune that is stable from wind erosion, and that has significant
soil development and that may include diverse forest cover. They include older foredunes.

DUNE, OPEN SAND: A collective term for active, unvegetative dune landforms.

DUNE, RECENTLY STABILIZED: A dune with sufficient vegetation to be stabilized from
wind erosion, but with little, if any, development of soil or cohesion of the sand under the
vegetation. Recently stabilized dunes include conditionally stable foredunes, conditionally stable
dunes, dune complexes, and younger stabilized dunes.

DUNE, STABILIZATION MEASURES: The use of vegetative materials, structure or other
means, to prevent movement of unstable dune forms.

DUNES, YOUNGER STABILIZED: A wind stable dune with weakly developed soils and
vegetation.

DWELLING:  Any building that contains one or more dwelling units used, intended, or designed
to be built, used, rented, leased, let or hired out to be occupied, or that are occupied for living
purposes. A dwelling shall consist of a kitchen, bathroom(s) and living space. Dwellings do not
including a RV, tent, teepee, yurt, hotels, motels, vacation rentals or boarding houses.

DWELLING TYPES:  Dwellings are separated into the following categories:
II - 13
a. Single family dwelling:  a single household unit of which construction is
characterized by no common wall or ceiling with another unit, including a mobile
home unless otherwise prohibited.
b. A multi-family dwelling structure contains three (3) or more dwelling units that share
a common floor/ceiling with one (1) or more units. The units may also share common
building walls. The land underneath the structure is not divided into separate lots.
Multi-dwelling structures include structures commonly known as garden apartments,
apartments, and condominiums.
c. A duplex is a structure that contains two primary dwelling units. The units shall share
either a common building wall or a common floor/ceiling. The land underneath the
units may or may not be divided into individual lots.
d. Replacement dwelling:  alteration, restoration or replacement of a lawfully
established dwelling that: (i) has intact exterior walls and roof structure; (ii) has
indoor plumbing consisting of a kitchen sink, toilet and bathing facilities connected to
a sanitary waste disposal system; (iii) has interior wiring for interior lights; (iv) has a
heating system; and (v) in the case of replacement, is removed, demolished or
converted to an allowable non-residential use within three months of the completion
of the replacement dwelling.

DWELLING UNIT: Dwelling unit is a single unit providing complete independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provision for living, sleeping, eating,
cooking and sanitation.

EASEMENT:  A right given by the owner of land to another party for a specific limited use of
that land.

ECOSYSTEM:  The living and nonliving components of the environment which interact or
function together, including plant and animal organisms, the physical environment, and the
energy systems in which they exist.  All the components of an ecosystem are inter-related.

ELEVATED BUILDING:  means for insurance purposes, a non-basement building which has its
lowest elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, post, piers,
pilings, or columns.

ENCOURAGE: Stimulate; give help to; foster.

ENHANCEMENT: The improvement of conditions in an area which remains under estuarine
influence but has experienced past degradation or reduction in productivity due to obstruction of
flow, sedimentation, log debris, et cetera.

EROSION HAZARD:  Likelihood of soil becoming unstable and subsequently being transported
by flooding, surface runoff or channel velocities.

ESEE CONSEQUENCES:  are the positive and negative economic, social, environmental, and
energy (ESEE) consequences that could result from a decision to allow, limit, or prohibit a
conflicting use.
II - 14

ESSENTIAL FACILITY: Essential facility shall mean:
a. Hospitals and other medical facilities having surgery and emergency treatment areas;
b. Fire and police stations;
c. Tanks or other structures containing, housing or supporting water or fire-suppression
materials or equipment required for the protection of essential or hazardous facilities
or special occupancy structures;
d. Emergency vehicle shelters and garages;
e. Structures and equipment in emergency-preparedness centers;
f. Standby power generating equipment for essential facilities; and
g. Structures and equipment in government communication centers and other facilities
required for emergency response

ESTUARINE ENHANCEMENT: An action, which results in a long-term improvement of
existing estuarine functional characteristics and processes that are not the result of a creation or
restoration action.

ESTUARY:  A body of water semi-enclosed by land, connected with the open ocean, and within
which saltwater is usually diluted by freshwater derived from the land. The estuary includes: (1)
estuarine water; (2) tidelands; (3) tidal marshes; and (4) submerged lands. Estuaries normally
extend upstream to the head of tidewater.

EVIDENCE: Facts, documents, data or other information offered to demonstrate compliance or
noncompliance with the standards believed by the proponent to be relevant to the decision.

EXCAVATION TO CREATE NEW WATER SURFACE: Excavation of shorelands that create
a new water surface directly connected to other tidal or nontidal waters. The most common
examples are creation of moorage space, fish ponds or restoration/mitigation from uplands.

EXPRESSLY PROHIBITED USE:  An activity which is explicitly prohibited within a zoning
district.

FACILITY(IES):  (1)  Low-intensity facilities consist of communication facilities (including
power  and telephone lines), sewer, water and gas lines; and (2)  High-intensity facilities, which
consist of stormwater and treated waste water outfalls (including industrial waste water).

FAMILY:  An individual; or a group of two (2) or more persons related by blood, marriage, legal
custody or legal adoption; or not more than five (5) handicapped persons and accompanying
staff.  Family shall also include residential day care facilities in residential and commercial zones
providing day care to 13 or fewer children including children of the provider.

FAMILY HARDSHIP DWELLING:  A mobile home or recreational vehicle used temporarily
during a family hardship condition relating to the aged, infirmed, or persons incapable of
maintaining a complete separate residence apart from their families.

II - 15
FARM/LOGGING/CONTRACTOR EQUIPMENT SALES, REPAIR AND STORAGE:  A
facility or area used for equipment sales, repair and storage including but not limited to sales,
repair and storage of farm implements, logging trucks, and other farm and logging equipment.

FARM USE:  Farming practices, as defined by ORS 215.203.

FARM USE - FOR PROFIT:  The current employment of land for the primary purpose of
obtaining a profit in money by raising, harvesting and selling crops or the feeding, breeding,
management and sale of, or the produce of, livestock, poultry, fur-bearing animals or honeybees,
or for dairying and the sale of dairy products or any other agricultural or horticultural use or
animal husbandry or any combination thereof.  "Farm use" includes the preparation and storage
of the products raised on the such land for human use and animal use and disposal by marketing
or otherwise.  "Farm use" also includes the current employment of land for the primary purpose
of obtaining a profit in money by stabling or training equines.  "Farm use" also includes the
propagation, cultivation, maintenance and harvesting of aquatic species.  it does not include the
use of land subject to the provisions of ORS Chapter 321, except land used exclusively for
growing cultured Christmas Trees.

FARM USE - NOT FOR PROFIT:  Farming activities not motivated by profit incentives
additional to the use of the land for residential or other purposes, including the raising,
harvesting and selling crops or the feeding, breeding, management and sale of, or the produce of,
livestock, poultry, fur-bearing animals, or honeybees, or for dairying and the sale of dairy
products or any other agricultural or horticultural use or animal husbandry or any combination
thereof.  "Farm use" includes the preparation and storage of the products raised on such land for
human use and animal use and disposal by marketing or otherwise.  'Farm use" also includes the
current employment of land for the primary purpose of obtaining a profit in money by stabling or
training equines.  "Farm use" also includes the propagation, cultivation, maintenance and
harvesting of aquatic species.  it does not include the use of land subject to the provisions of
ORS Chapter 321, except land used exclusively for growing cultured Christmas trees.

FARM USE - INTENSIVE:  Farm use for profit, as defined herein, occurring on a parcel less
than the minimum lot size of a given zoning district, and conducted in such a manner so as to
permit the farm operation to contribute in a substantial way to the commercial agricultural
enterprise of the area.

FEED LOT:  Any structure, pen or corral wherein cattle, sheep, horses, goats, or swine are
maintained in close quarters for the purpose of fattening such livestock.

FILL: The placement by man of sand, sediment, or other material, usually in submerged lands or
wetlands, to create new uplands or raise the elevation of land. Except that "fill" does not include
solid waste disposal or site preparation for development of an allowed use which is not otherwise
subject to the special wetland, sensitive habitat, archaeological, dune protection, or other special
policies set forth in this Plan (solid waste disposal, and site preparation on shorelands, are not
considered "fill"). "Minor Fill" is the placement of small amounts of material as necessary, for
example, for a boat ramp or development of a similar scale. Minor fill may exceed 50 cubic
yards and therefore require a permit.
II - 16

FINAL PLAT:  A plat for the partitioning of land, duly submitted to the Planning Director and
conforming in all respects to the requirements of this Ordinance.

FIRE BREAK:  A barrier of cleared land intended to check a forest or grass fire.

FIRE STATION:  A building or structure housing fire fighting apparatus or firemen.

FLOATING HOME:  “Floating home” is a floating structure used primarily as a domicile and
not a boat, which is usually moored or secured to a pier or pilings.

FLOATING ZONE:  A zone designation which overlays a primary zoning district.  A floating
zone may restrict the uses of a primary zoning district or may include additional standards
required of a use within the primary zoning district.

FLOOD OR FLOODING:  A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from:

 1. The overflow of inland or tidal waters and/or
 2. The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any source.

FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP:  An official map for the County furnished by the
Federal Insurance Administration, labeled "A Flood Hazard Boundary Map" and delineating the
boundaries of special flood hazard areas.

FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP:  An official map of the County furnished by the Federal
Insurance Administration, labeled "A Flood Insurance Rate Map" and delineating special flood
hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the County.

FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY:  The official report provided by the Federal Insurance
Administration that includes flood profiles, the Flood Boundary-Floodway Map, and the water
surface elevation of the base flood.

FLOOD-PRONE AREA:  Any land area susceptible to a partial or complete inundation from
either the overflow of inland or tidal waters or the usual and rapid accumulation of run-off of
surface waters from any source.

FLOOD PROOFING:  Any combination of structural and non-structural additions, changes, or
adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate a flood damage to real estate or improved
real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their contents.

FLOOD, REGIONAL (100-YEAR): A standard statistical calculation used by engineers to
determine the probability of severe flooding. It represents the largest flood which has a one-
percent chance of occurring in any one year in an area as a result of periods of higher-than
normal rainfall or streamflows, extremely high tides, high winds, rapid snowmelt, natural stream
blockages, tsunamis or combination thereof.
II - 17

FLOOD TIDE: A rising tide.

FLOODFRINGE: The area of the floodplain lying outside of the floodway, but subject to
periodic inundation from flooding.

FLOODPLAIN: The area adjoining a stream, tidal estuary or coast that is subject to regional
flooding.

FLOODWAY:  The channel or a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that may
be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water
surface elevation more than one foot.

FOREDUNE, ACTIVE: An unstable barrier ridge of sand paralleling the beach and subject to
wind erosion, water erosion, and growth from new sand deposits. Active foredunes may include
areas with beach grass, and occur in sand spits and at river mouths as well as elsewhere.

FOREDUNE, CONDITIONALLY STABLE: An active foredune that has ceased growing in
height and that has become conditionally stable with regard to wind erosion.

FOREDUNE, OLDER: A conditionally stable foredune that has become wind stabilized by
diverse vegetation and soil development.

FOREST LAND: Those lands designated in the Coos County Comprehensive Plan (Volume I-
"Balance of County") for inclusion in a Forest Lands zone. These areas include: (1) lands
composed of existing and potential forest lands which are suitable for commercial forest uses, (2)
other forested lands needed for watershed protection, wildlife and fisheries habitat and
recreation, (3) lands where extreme conditions of climate, soil and topography require the
maintenance of vegetative cover irrespective of use, and (4) other forested lands which provide
urban buffers, wind breaks, wildlife and fisheries habitat, livestock habitat, scenic corridors and
recreational use.

FOREST OPERATION:  Forest practices including, but not limited to, reforestation of forest
land, road construction and maintenance, harvesting of a forest tree species, application of
chemicals, and disposal of slash;  any commercial activity relating to the growing or harvesting
of any tree species as defined in ORS 527.620(6).

FOREST PRIMARY PROCESSING:  the initial treatment of forest products to enable their
shipment to market.  Primary processing includes but shall not be limited to:  processing of a raw
log, sawmills cutting rough lumbers, cant mills, and chippers.  Primary processing would not
include such long-range facilities as pulp mills, pressed-wood manufacturing plants, etc.

FORESTRY-PROPAGATION, MANAGEMENT AND HARVESTING:  The employment of
land, along with the accessory buildings and uses, for the growing, harvesting, and management
of forest products.

II - 18
FORESTRY-STORAGE AND MAINTENANCE:  A facility or area for the purpose of storing
forestry products and equipment, and the maintenance of forestry harvesting and management
equipment.

GEOLOGIC:  Relating to the occurrence and properties of earth.  Geologic hazards include
faults, land and mudslides, and earthquakes.

GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION:  The act of searching for resources of or relating to the heat
of the earth's interior.

GRADE (GROUND LEVEL):  The lowest point of elevation of the finished surface of the
ground between the exterior wall of a building or the lowest structural component of a free
standing tower, and a point 5 feet distant from said wall or free standing tower, or the lower point
of elevation of the finished surface of the ground between the exterior wall of a building or a free
standing tower and the property line, whichever is nearest to said wall or free standing tower.  In
case walls or free standing towers are parallel to and within 5 feet of a public sidewalk, alley, or
other public way, the grade shall be the elevation of the sidewalk, alley, or public way.

HABITABLE FLOOR:  Any floor usable for living purposes, which includes working, sleeping,
eating, cooking or recreation, or a combination thereof.  A floor used only for storage purposes is
not a "habitable floor".

HABITAT: The place or site where a plant or animal naturally lives and grows.

HAZARDOUS FACILITY: Hazardous facility shall mean a structure or structures housing,
supporting or containing sufficient quantities of toxic or explosive substances to be of danger to
the safety of the public if released.

HEADLAND:  Bluffs, promontories or points of high shoreland jutting out into the ocean,
generally sloping abruptly into the water. The Coos Head bluff near Charleston, as identified in
the inventory document accompanying this Plan.

HEADWATERS:  A tributary stream located in the upper watershed.

HEARINGS BODY:  A person or persons appointed by the Board of County Commissioners to
conduct administrative or quasi-judicial public hearings.

HEIGHT OF WIND ENERGY SYSTEM:  Shall be the vertical distance from the grade to the tip
of a wind generator blade when the tip is at its highest point.

HIGH-VALUE FARMLAND:  "High-value farmland" means land in a tract composed
predominantly of soils that are:

A. Irrigated and classified prime, unique, Class I or Class II; or
B. Not irrigated and classified prime, unique, Class I or Class II.

II - 19
 A and B, above, include the following soils: 2C, 5A, 5B, 33, 17B, 25 and 36C.

In addition, high-value farmland includes tracts growing specified perennials as
demonstrated by the most recent aerial photography of the Agricultural Stabilization and
Conservation Service of the United States Department of Agriculture taken prior to
November 4, 1993.  "Specified perennials" means perennials grown for market or
research purposes including, but not limited to, nursery stock, berries, fruits, nuts,
Christmas trees or vineyards, but not including seed crops, hay, pasture or alfalfa.

Also, high-value farmland, used in conjunction with a dairy operation on January 1,
1993, includes tracts composed predominantly of the following soils in Class III or IV or
composed predominantly of a combination of the soils described in A or B above and the
following soils: Meda (37C), Nehalem (40) and Coquille (12).

HISTORIC:  Of, relating to, or having the character of history.

HISTORICAL RESOURCES: Those districts, sites, buildings, structures, and artifacts which
have a relationship to events of human conditions of the past (see Archaeological Resources
definition).

HOTEL/MOTEL OR GROUP COTTAGES: A property, however owned and including a
condominium under ORS chapter 100, in which rooms or suites of rooms generally are rented as
transient lodgings and not as principal residences. This use may consist of a building or group of
buildings on the same lot, containing guest units with separate entrances and consisting of
individual sleeping quarters detached or in connected rows, with or without cooking facilities.

HOUSE OF WORSHIP/CHURCH:  A structure together with accessory buildings and uses
where persons regularly assemble for worship, and which building, together with its accessory
buildings and uses, is maintained and controlled by a religious body organized to conduct public
worship, and which qualifies for exemption under property tax laws. [OR-92-07-012PL]

HUMMOCK, ACTIVE: Partially vegetated (usually with beach grass), circular, and
elevated mounds of sand which are actively growing in size.

HUNTING AND FISHING PRESERVE:  Areas used exclusively for the hunting of game birds,
game animals, or angling for game fish as permitted by State law.

HYDRAULIC: Related to the movement or pressure of water. Hydraulic hazards are those
associated with erosion or sedimentation caused by the action of water flowing in a river or
streambed, or oceanic currents and waves.

HYDRAULIC INFLUENCE: Related to the movement or pressure of water. Areas having
hydraulic influence are those which show the effects of moving water or water pressure.

II - 20
HYDRAULIC PROCESSES: Actions resulting from the effect of moving water or water
pressure on the bed, banks, and shorelands of water bodies (oceans, estuaries, streams, lakes, and
rivers).

HYDROGRAPHY: The study, description and mapping of oceans, estuaries, rivers and lakes.

HYDROLOGIC: Relating to the occurrence and properties of water.  Hydrologic hazards include
(the rise of water) as well as hydraulic hazards associated with the movement of water.

IMPACT: The consequences of a course of action; effect of a goal, guideline, plan or decision.

IMPACT AREA:  Is a geographic area within which conflicting uses could adversely affect a
significant Goal 5 resource.

IMPERVIOUS SURFACE:  A surface that cannot effectively absorb or infiltrate water.

INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT:  Any development for the purpose of accommodating an
Industrial Use, which also includes accessory uses subordinate to the industrial development, and
on-site sewer facilities to serve such an industrial development. Commercial, retail, or residential
development is not authorized in an area zoned IND.

INDUSTRIAL USE: The use of land and/or structures for the manufacturing or processing of
primary, secondary, or recycled materials into a product, warehousing and associated trucking
operations, wholesale trade, and related development.

INDUSTRIAL (USES) AND PORT FACILITIES:  Public or private use of land or structures for
manufacturing, processing, port development, and energy generating facilities. Industrial and
Port Facilities include large commercial and industrial docks.

INSURE (Ensure):  Guarantee; make sure or certain something will happen.

INTEGRITY: The quality or state of being complete and functionally unimpaired; the wholeness
or entirety of a body or system, including its parts, materials, and processes. The integrity of an
ecosystem emphasizes the inter-relatedness of all parts and the unity of its whole. The integrity
of this Plan relates to its faithful execution by local governments and agencies.

INTERDUNE AREA: Low-lying areas between higher sand landforms which are generally
under water during part of the year (See also "Deflation Plain").

INTERIM:  An intervening time.

INTERMITTENT STREAM:  A stream that has interrupted flow or does not flow continuously.

INTERTIDAL: Between the levels of mean lower low tide (MLLT) and mean higher high tide
(MHHT).

II - 21
KEY FACILITIES: Basic facilities that are primarily planned for by local government but which
also may be provided by private enterprise and are essential to the support of more intensive
development, including public schools, transportation, water supply, sewage and solid waste
disposal.

KITCHEN:  An area used or designated to be used for the storage, preparation, and cooking of
food.  The following factors shall be considered when determining whether or not an area is a
kitchen.

1. The size, location, and arrangement of cabinets and counters.
2. The number and location of electrical outlets.
3. The layout and plumbing will accommodate a full sized sink.
4. The surrounding area is set off so as to create an independent living space.
5. The space is set up for 220 electrical service or for service by natural gas that could
support a stove.
6. The area does or does not function as a bathroom.

The Planning Director or designee must consider all 6 factors in determining if there is a kitchen
in the structure; however all factors do not have to be present.  The more factors that are present,
the stronger the case for determining whether or not a kitchen is present.

LAND TRANSPORT FACILITIES: Bridges and associated structures, highways and railroads.

LARGE WOODY DEBRIS:  Dead material from trees and shrubs that is large enough to persist
more than one season.

LCDC:  Land Conservation and Development Commission of the State of Oregon. Seven lay
citizens, non-salaried, appointed by the Governor, confirmed by the Oregon Senate; at least one
commissioner from each Congressional District; no more than two from Multnomah County.

LIBRARY:  An establishment in which literary, musical, artistic, or reference materials are kept
for use but not for sale.

LITTORAL DRIFT: The material moved, such as sand or gravel, in the littoral (shallow water
near shore) zone under the influence of waves and currents.

LOG DUMP/SORT AREA (in-water): An area where logs are transferred to the water from the
land or to the land from the water for sorting into groups on the basis of species, size and quality.

LOG STORAGE (in-water):  The use of water surface area to store commercial logs prior to or
during processing. Water areas used for log dumping or removal are included in this definition.

LOG STORAGE/SORTING YARD (dry land): An area where logs are gathered from
surrounding harvest areas and measured, sorted, and/or stored until ready for transfer to water
storage areas or to market.

II - 22
LOT:  A unit of land created by a subdivision of land or a planned community.  A lot lawfully
created shall remain a discrete lot, unless the lot lines are changed or vacated or the lot is further
divided as provided by this Ordinance.

LOT, PARCEL, OR TRACT DEPTH:  The horizontal distance from the mid-point of the front
lot line to the mid-point of the rear lot line.

LOT, PARCEL, OR TRACT FRONT LOT LINE:  In the case of an interior lot, parcel, or tract,
a line separating the lot, parcel or tract from the street;  in the case of a corner lot, parcel or tract,
a line separating a lot, parcel or tract from the street on which the improvement or contemplated
improvement will face.

LOT, PARCEL OR TRACT SIDE LOT LINE:  a lot line which is not a front or rear lot line.

LOT, PARCEL OR TRACT WIDTH:  The horizontal distance between the side lot lines
measured at right angles to the lot depth at a point midway between the front and rear lot line.

LOWEST FLOOR:  The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement).  An
unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or
storage, in an area other than a basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor,
provided that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this Ordinance found at Section 5.2-1(2).

MAINTAIN: Support, keep and continue in an existing state or condition without decline.

MANAGEMENT UNIT: A discrete geographic area, defined by biophysical characteristics and
features, within which particular uses and activities are promoted, encouraged protected, or
enhanced, and others are discouraged, restricted, or prohibited.  Management units are delineated
on the Plan map, and provide a framework for policy decisions embodied in Volume II, Part 1,
Section 5.2 of this Plan.

~ Aquatic Management Units include:
  Natural Aquatic Areas (NA)
  Conservation Aquatic (CA)
  Development Aquatic (DA)

~ Shoreland Management Units include:
  Natural Shoreland Areas (NS)
  Conservation Shoreland Areas (CS)
  Rural Shoreland Areas (RS)
  Urban Development Areas (UD)
  Urban Water-dependent Areas (UW)
  Development Shorelands (D)
  Water-Dependent Development Shorelands (WD)

See Volume II, Part 1, Section 3.5 for detailed explanation of management units.
II - 23

MANUFACTURED DWELLING (ORS: 446.003)

a. Residential trailer – structure constructed for movement on the public highways
that has sleeping, cooking and plumbing facilities, that is intended for human occupancy, that is
being used for residential purposes and that was constructed before January 1, 1962; or

b. Mobile home – structure constructed for movement on the public highways that
has sleeping, cooking and plumbing facilities, that is intended for human occupancy, that is
being used for residential purposes and that was constructed between January 1, 1962 and June
15, 1976; or

c. Manufactured home – structure constructed for movement on the public highways
that has sleeping, cooking and plumbing facilities, that is intended for human occupancy, this is
being used for residential purposes and that was constructed in accordance with federal
manufactured housing construction and safety standards and regulations in effect at the time of
construction.  [OR 01-02-004PL   6/13/01]

MANUFACTURED DWELLING PARK (ORS 446.003):  any place where four (4) or more
manufactured dwellings are located within 500 feet of one another on a lot, tract or parcel of land
under the same ownership, the primary purposes of which is to rent or lease space or keep space
for rent or lease to any person for a charge or fee paid or to be paid for the rental or lease or use
of facilities or to offer space free in connection with securing the trade or patronage of such
person.  Does not include a lot or lots located within a subdivision being rented or leased for
occupancy by no more then one (1) manufactured dwelling per lot if the subdivision was
approved by Coos County (ORS 92.010 to 92.190 and 446.003) [OR 01-02-004PL  6/13/01]

MARINAS:  Facilities, which provide moorage, launching, storage, supplies and a variety of
services for recreational, commercial fishing and charter fishing vessels. Moorage facilities with
5 or less berths are excluded from this category.

MARSH, MAJOR:  A tract of land often periodically inundated and treeless and usually
characterized by grasses, cattails, or other swamp like characteristics.

MEDICAL - CLINIC:    The medical or dental facility for diagnosis and treatment of out-
patients.

MEDICAL - HOSPITAL:  A facility where the sick or injured are given medical or surgical
care.

MEDICAL - SANITARIUM/REST HOME/CONVALESCENT HOME:  An establishment that
provides housing and general care for the aged or the convalescent; an establishment that
provides therapy combined with treatment for rehabilitation; an establishment for rest and
recuperation; or an establishment for the treatment of the chronically ill.  This use shall also
include a residential care facility and residential home.

II - 24
METEOROLOGICAL TOWERS:  Includes the tower, base plate, anchors, guy cables and
hardware, anemometers, temperature and pressure sensors, other weather measuring devices
attached to the tower, wind direction vanes, booms to hold equipment anemometers and vanes,
data logger, instrument wiring, and any telemetry devises that are used to monitor or transmit
weather information at a given location.

MINERAL RESOURCES - EXPLORATION:  The act for searching for any naturally occurring
homogeneous substance such as coal, salt, sulfur, petroleum, water, natural gas, etc.  For the
purposes of this Ordinance minerals do not include stone, sand, rock or other aggregate.

MINERAL RESOURCES - MINING:  The process of gaining access to and removal of
minerals.  (See the definition of minerals under the definition of Mineral Resources-Exploration.)

MINERAL RESOURCES - PROCESSING:  The act of refining, perfecting, or converting a
natural mineral into a useful product.

MINING/MINERAL EXTRACTION: The removal for economic use of minerals, petroleum
resources, sands, gravels or other naturally occurring materials from the shorelands and/or a bed
within an aquatic area.

MINOR NAVIGATIONAL IMPROVEMENTS: Alterations necessary to provide water access
to existing or permitted uses in conservation management units, including dredging for access
channels and for maintaining existing navigation but excluding fill and in-water navigational
structures other than floating breakwaters or similar permeable wave barriers.

MITIGATION:  The creation, restoring, or enhancing of an estuarine area to maintain the
functional characteristics and processes of the estuary, such as its natural biological productivity,
habitats, and species diversity, unique features and water quality (ORS 196.830.

MITIGATION BANK:  The creation, restoration, or under certain circumstances the protection,
or an area of functioning wetland in advance of, and to offset anticipated wetland impacts within
the same ecoregion.

MOBILE HOME:  See definition “Manufactured Dwelling”. [OR 01-02-004PL 6/13/01]

MODIFICATION OF HISTORICAL STRUCTURES:  The expansion, rehabilitation, alteration,
or other change of a significant historical structure as identified by the Coos County
Comprehensive Plan.

MOORAGE:  See "Docks and Moorage".

MUSEUM:  An institution devoted to the procurement, care, study, and display of objects of
lasting interest or value.

NATURAL:  A state of nature untouched by the influences of civilization and society.

II - 25
NATURAL AQUATIC AREAS (NA): An aquatic management unit (see Volume II, Part 1,
Section 3.5).

NATURAL AREAS: Includes land and water that has substantially retained its natural character,
which is an important habitat for plant, animal, or marine life. Such areas are not necessarily
completely natural or undisturbed, but can be significant for the study of natural, historical,
scientific, or paleontological features, or for the appreciation of natural features.

NATURAL MANAGEMENT UNIT: In all estuaries, areas shall be designated to assure the
protection of significant fish and wildlife habitats, of continued biological productivity within the
estuary, and of scientific, research, and educational needs.  These shall be managed to preserve
the natural resources in recognition of dynamic, natural, geological, and evolutionary processes.
Such areas shall include, at a minimum, all major tracts of saltmarsh, tideflats, and seagrass and
algae beds.

NATURAL RESOURCES:  Air, land and water and the elements thereof which are valued for
their existing and potential usefulness to man.

NATURAL SHORELANDS AREAS (NS): A shoreland management unit (see Volume II, Part
1, Section 3.5).

NAVIGATIONAL AIDS: Beacons, buoys and similar floating, anchored structures requiring no
alteration of the estuary.

NAVIGATIONAL STRUCTURES: Groins, pile dikes, fills, jetties and breakwaters that are
installed to help maintain navigation channels, or protect marinas and harbors by controlling
water flow, wave action and sand movement.

NEW CONSTRUCTION:  Structures for, which the "start of construction" commenced on or
after the effective date of this ordinance.

NOMINAL 40:  A lot, parcel or tract of land which contains slightly less than 40 acres but more
than 30 acres and which results from a geometric breakdown from a section (i.e., SE ¼, SW ¼).
nominal 40's will occur when an original Government survey created the section.

NOXIOUS VEGETATION:  A plant arbitrarily defined by law as being especially undesirable,
troublesome, and difficult to control.

OCCDC: Oregon Coastal Conservation and Development Commission, created by ORS 191;
existed from 1971 to 1975.  Its work is continued by LCDC.

OCEAN FLOODING: The flooding of lowland areas by saltwater owing to tidal action, storm
surge, or tsunamis (seismic sea waves).  Land forms subject to ocean flooding include beaches,
marshes, coastal lowlands, and low lying interdune areas. Areas of ocean flooding are mapped
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). Ocean flooding includes areas of
velocity flooding and associated shallow marine flooding.
II - 26

OIL CONTAMINATED SOIL:  Soil that has been made impure and undesirable by becoming
mixed with oil or oil products, including but not limited to crude oil, gasoline, fuel oil, diesel oil,
lubricating oil, sludge, oil refuse or any other petroleum related product or fraction thereof that is
liquid at a temperature of 60 degrees Fahrenheit and a pressure of 14.7 pounds per square inch
absolute. [OR 93-02-003PL  3/30/93]

OPENED ROAD:  A legally created right-of-way including an easement or public dedication,
which is under use as access to one or more residences and which exists at the time of the
adoption of this Ordinance.

OVERLAY ZONE:  Zone designation which overlays a primary zoning district.  A floating zone
may restrict the uses of a primary zoning district or may include additional standards required of
a use within the primary zoning district.

PAPA:  is a "post-acknowledgement plan amendment."  The term encompasses actions taken in
accordance with ORS 197.610 through 197.625, including amendments to an acknowledged
comprehensive plan or land use regulation and the adoption of any new plan or land use
regulation.  The term does not include periodic review actions taken in accordance with ORS
197.628 through 197.650.

PARCEL:  A unit of land that is created by a partitioning of land.  A parcel lawfully created shall
remain a discrete parcel, unless the parcel lines are changed or vacated or the parcel is further
divided as provided by this Ordinance.

PARENT PARCEL:  The most recent legal lot, parcel or tract of land including all contiguous
lots, parcels or tracts of land under the same ownership, prior to or at a given point in time.

PARTITION:  Means either an act of partitioning land or an area or tract of land partitioned.

PARTITION LAND:  Means to divide land into two or three parcels of land within a calendar
year, but does not include: (a) A division of land resulting from a lien foreclosure, foreclosure of
a recorded contract for the sale of real property or the creation of cemetery lots; or (b) An
adjustment of a property line by the relocation of a common boundary where an additional unit
of land is not created and where the existing unit of land reduced in size by the adjustment
complies with all applicable provisions of this Ordinance. (c) A sale or grant by a person to a
public agency or public body for state highway, county road or other right-of-way purposes
provided that such road or right-of-way complies with the applicable sections of this ordinance
and ORS 215.213(2)(q) to (s) and 215.283(2)(p) to (r).

However, any property divided by the sale or grant of property for state highway, county road,
city street or other right-of-way purposes shall continue to be considered a single unit of land
until such time as the property is further subdivided or partitioned. [OR 92-07-012PL]

II - 27
PARTITION PLAT:  Includes a final map and other writing containing all the descriptions,
locations, dedications, specifications, provisions, and information concerning a partition. [OR
92-07-012PL]

PERENNIAL STREAM:  A continuously flowing stream.

PERMITTED USE:  A use allowed as of right by and within the primary zoning district.

PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM:  Consists of equipment that converts sunlight into electricity and
then stores or transfers that electricity.  This equipment includes photovoltaic modules and
panes, mounting and sun tracking hardware, foundation, inverter, wiring, batteries, or other
components used in the system.  A photovoltaic system may be a grid-connected or stand alone
system.  A photovoltaic system does not include a system that utilizes a photovoltaic module or
panel that contains a total surface of nine square feet or less.

PILING/DOLPHIN INSTALLATION: The driving of wood, concrete or steel piling into the
bottom in aquatic areas to support piers or docks, structures, moored floating structures, vessels
or log rafts or for other purposes. A dolphin is a group of pilings held together by steel cable and
used for mooring vessels, log rafts or floating structures.

PLANNING AREA: The air, land and water resources within the jurisdiction of a governmental
agency, jurisdiction within Coos County.

PLANNED COMMUNITY:  (ORS 94.550) means any subdivision under ORS 92.010 to 92.170,
which results in a pattern of ownership of real property and all the buildings, improvements and
rights located on or belonging to the real property in which:

(a) there is a homeowner's association responsible for the maintenance, operation,
insurance and property taxes relating to any common property of the planned
community or for the exterior maintenance of any property that is individually
owned; and

(b) owner of individual lots, by virtue of their ownership, automatically are members
of the homeowner's association and assume liability for membership fees.  [Note:
this definition is synonymous with "Planned Unit Development" PUD]

PLANNING DIRECTOR:  The Coos County Planning Director.

PLAT: A plat includes a final map, diagram, drawing and/or other writing containing all the
descriptions, locations, specifications, dedications, provisions and information concerning a
subdivision plat, replat, partition plat or planned community.

PLOT PLAN OR SKETCH PLAN:  A detailed drawing delineating the following:
• Owner’s name, address, and phone number;
• Assessor’s map and tax lot number;
• North arrow;
II - 28
• Scale (Using standard engineering scale);
• Accurate shape and dimensions of parcel or development site, including the lengths of all
property lines;
• Any adjacent public or private roads, all easements and/or driveway locations (Include
road names);
• Driveway location and parking areas, including the distance from at least one property
line to the intersection of the driveway and the road (apron area);
• All natural features, which may include, but are not limited to creeks, rivers, ponds, lakes,
wetlands, ravines, and slopes and their distances to the existing and proposed
development;
• Existing and proposed structures;
• Location of existing water source and distance from property lines and development;
• Location and dimension of all proposed and/or existing sewage facilities; and
• Setbacks for current and proposed development.

POLLUTION: The violation or threatened violation of applicable state or federal environmental
quality statutes, rules and standards.

POTENTIAL TREE HEIGHT:  The potential height of a mature tree for a particular location.
Determined by climate, geology, hydrology, and landscape position.

PRESERVE:  To save from change or loss and reserve for a special purpose.

PRINCIPAL OR PRIMARY USE: The primary use and chief purpose of land, buildings, or
structures.

PROGRAM: Proposed or desired plan or course of proceedings and action.

PROTECT: Save or shield from loss, destruction, or injury or for future intended use.

PROVIDE: Prepare, plan for, and supply what is needed.

PUBLIC FACILITIES AND SERVICES: Projects, activities and facilities determined to be
necessary for the public health, safety and welfare.

PUBLIC GAIN: The net gain from combined economic, social, and environmental effects which
accrue to the public because of a use or activity and its subsequent resulting effects.

PUBLIC ROAD:  The entire right-of-way of any road over which the public has the right of use
or any right-of-way held by the state or a political subdivision of the state for road purposes that
is not open for public use.

QUALITY: The degree of excellence or relative goodness.

RECREATION: Any experience voluntarily engaged in largely during leisure (discretionary
time) from which the individual derives satisfaction:
II - 29

(1) Coastal Recreation: occurs in offshore ocean waters, estuaries, and streams, along
beaches and bluffs, and in adjacent shorelands. It includes a variety of activities
from swimming, scuba diving, boating, fishing, hunting, and use of dune buggies,
shell collecting, painting, wildlife observation, and sightseeing, to coastal resorts
and water-oriented restaurants;

(2) Low-Intensity Recreation:  does not require developed facilities and can be
accommodated without change to the area or resource. For example, boating
hunting, hiking, wildlife photography, and beach or shore activities can be low-
intensity recreation;

(3) High-Intensity Recreation: uses specially built facilities, or occurs in such density
or form that it requires or results in a modification of the area or resource.
Campgrounds, golf courses, public beaches, and marinas are examples of high-
intensity recreation.

RECREATION - CIRCUS/CARNIVAL:  An arena which may be covered by a tent, and used
for variety shows usually including feats of physical skill and daring, wild animal acts, and
performances by jugglers and clowns.  An enterprise offering amusements in the form of
entertainment or exhibition.

RECREATION - GOLF COURSE:  An area of land laid out for the game of golf with a series of
golf links each including a tee, fairway, and putting green and often one or more natural or
artificial hazards.

RECREATION - OFF ROAD VEHICLE RENTAL:  An establishment which provides vehicles
such as snow mobiles, dune buggies, motorcycles, etc. for rent.

RECREATION - PARK/OPEN SPACE:  An open or enclosed lot parcel or tract of land set apart
and devoted for the purposes of pleasure, recreation, ornamentation, or light and air.

RECREATIONAL PLANNED COMMUNITY:  A planned community providing a combination
of:  owner's primary dwelling units, recreational dwelling unit, and required open space.  A
recreational planned community may also contain retail and service establishments not
necessarily limited in scope to meet the needs of the recreational planned community users, and
accessory structures and uses to the extent necessary and normal to uses permitted within a
recreational planned community.  Recreational planned communities shall contain a minimum of
80 contiguous acres in single ownership.  NOTE:  this definition is synonymous with
"Recreational Planned Unit Department" (R-PUD).

RECREATIONAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:  A planned unit development
providing a combination of: owner's primary dwelling units, recreational dwelling units, and
required open space.  A recreational planned unit development may also contain retail and
service establishments not necessarily limited in scope to meet the needs of the recreational
planned unit development users, and accessory structures and uses to the extent necessary and
II - 30
normal to uses permitted within a recreational planned unit development.  Recreational planned
unit developments shall contain a minimum of 80 contiguous acres in single ownership.

RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (OAR 918-650-0005):  A vehicle which is a) built on a single
chassis; b) 400 square feet or less when measure at the largest horizontal projection; c) designed
to be self propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck; and d) designed primarily not
for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living quarters for recreation, camping, travel,
or seasonal use. The basic entities are:
 i. travel trailer – vehicular unit which has a roof, floor and sides and is mounted on
wheels, but it is not of such size or weight as to require special highway movement permits when
towed by a motorized vehicle, and has a floor area of less than 220 square feet, excluding built-in
equipment such as wardrobes, closets, cabinets, kitchen units or fixtures and bath or toilet rooms;
 ii. camping trailer – vehicle unit mounted on wheels and constructed with collapsible
partial side walls which fold when the unit is towed by another vehicle and unfold at the
campsite to provide temporary living quarters for recreational, camping or travel use, and has a
floor area of less than 220 square feet, excluding  built-in equipment such as wardrobes, closets,
cabinets, kitchen units or fixtures and bath or toilet rooms;
 iii. truck camper – portable unit which has a roof, floor and sides and is designed to
be loaded on an off the bed of a truck or pick-up truck, and has a floor area of less than 220
square feet, excluding built-in equipment such as wardrobes, closets, cabinets, kitchen units or
fixtures and bath or toilet rooms;
 iv. motor home – vehicular unit built on or permanently attached to a self-propelled
motor vehicle chassis or on a chassis cab or van which is an integral part of the complete vehicle,
and has a floor area of less than 220 square feet, excluding built-in equipment such as wardrobes,
closets, cabinets, kitchen units or fixtures and bath or toilet rooms;
 v. park trailer – vehicle built-on single chassis, mounted on wheels, designed to
provide seasonal or temporary living quarters which may be connected to utilities or operation of
installed fixtures and appliances, of such a construction as to permit set-up by persons without
special skills using only hand tools which may include lifting, pulling and supporting devices
and a gross trailer area not exceeding 400 square feet when in the set-up mode.
[OR 01-02-004PL  6/13/01]

RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK (OAR 918-650-0005):  A lot, parcel or tract of land upon
which   two (2) or more recreational vehicle sites are located, established or maintained for
occupancy by recreational vehicles of the general public as temporary living quarters for
recreational or vacation purposes. [OR 01-02-004PL  6/13/01]

RECREATIONAL VEHICLE SITE:  A plat of ground within a recreational vehicle park
designed to accommodate a recreational vehicle on a temporary basis.

REFERENCE SITE:  An undisturbed area that exhibits the potential natural vegetation under a
particular set of conditions.  Used as a model for restoration or disturbed sites.

REPLAT:  The act of platting the lots, parcels and easements in a recorded subdivision or
partition plat to achieve a reconfiguration of the existing subdivision or partition plat or to
increase or decrease the number of lots in the subdivision.  [OR 92-07-012PL]
II - 31

RESEARCH AND EDUCATIONAL OBSERVATION:  Activities such as sampling of water
and vegetation, surveying, inventorying, trapping or taking of fish, birds or other animals for the
purposes of scientific research or education.

RESERVOIRS AND WATER IMPOUNDMENTS:  A place where water is collected and stored
for use, and may include dam structures, the lakes and ponds behind them, off-stream ponds
where water is collected and stored, similar storage areas and including, but not limited to, water
diversion and transmission facilities, road construction, soil and rock extraction/processing, and
related land alterations and activities which are accessory to the construction and maintenance of
reservoir and water impoundments and ancillary improvements.

RESIDENTIAL - CONVENTIONAL SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING:  A single household unit
including on-site construction or modular units (but not including a mobile home).  Said
dwelling unit shall not share a common wall, floor or ceiling with another single household unit.

RESIDENTIAL - DUPLEX:  A building designed exclusively for occupancy by two (2) families
living independently of each other in independent dwelling units attached and sharing a common
wall, floor or ceiling.

RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITY:  Residential care facility means a facility licensed by or
under the authority of the Department of Human Resources under ORS 443.400 to 443.460
which provides residential care alone or in conjunction with treatment or training or a
combination thereof for six to fifteen individuals who need not be related.  Staff persons required
to meet Department of Human Resources licensing requirements shall not be counted in the
number of facility residents, and need not be related to each other or to any resident of the
residential facility. [OR 93-12-017PL  2/23/94]

RESIDENTIAL - FLOATING HOME:  A moored structure that is secured to a pier or pilings
and is used primarily as a residence and not as a boat. [ORS 488.705(2)]  A facility, dock or pier
owned by one person where four or more floating homes are secured, the primary purpose of
which is to rent space or keep space for rent to any person for a fee, shall be reviewed as a
mobile home park.

RESIDENTIAL CARE HOME:  Residential care home means a home licensed by or under the
authority of the Department of Human Resources under ORS 443.400 to 443.825 which provides
residential care alone or in conjunction with treatment or training or a combination thereof for
five or fewer individuals who need not be related.  Staff persons required to meet Department of
Human Resources licensing requirements shall not be counted in the number of facility residents,
and need not be related to each other or to any resident of the residential home. [OR 93-12-
017PL  2/23/94]

RESIDENTIAL - MANUFACTURED HOME:  See definition “Manufactured Dwelling”. [OR
01-02-004PL  6/13/01]

II - 32
RESIDENTIAL - MOBILE HOME:  See definition “Manufactured Dwelling”.  [OR 01-02-004
PL   6/13/01]

RESIDENTIAL - MOBILE HOME PARK:  See definition “Manufactured Dwelling Park”.  [OR
01-02-004PL    6/13/01]

RESIDENTIAL - MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING:  A building designed exclusively for
occupancy by three or more families living independently of each other in independent units.
Such building is characterized by living units which share a common wall, floor, or ceiling.

RESIDENTIAL-PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:  A form of development usually
characterized by a unified site design for a number of housing units, clustered buildings,
providing common open space, and a mix of building types and land uses.  A PUD permits the
planning of a project over the entire development, rather than on an individual lot-by-lot basis,
but a Planned Unit Development does not exclude the sale of individual lots, but only after the
development is planned as a single unit.

RESIDENTIAL - SECOND FLOOR APARTMENTS:  A dwelling unit(s) located above a
commercial industrial use located on the ground floor.

RESIDENTIAL USES: Development of land and structures for human occupancy as living
quarters. Residential uses include single-family dwellings, mobile homes, duplexes and multiple
residential apartments. Density of residential development relates to city and county
implementing measures, and location factors such as urban growth boundary and natural hazard
considerations.

RESIDENTIAL - WATCHMAN/CARETAKER DWELLING:  A dwelling unit accessory to
another primary use of the property, providing living quarters for a watchman or a caretaker.

RESORT COMMUNITY:  An unincorporated community that was established primarily for and
continues to be used primarily for recreation or resort purposes: and (a) includes residential and
commercial uses; and (b) provides for both temporary and permanent residential occupancy,
including overnight lodging and accommodations.

RESOURCE CAPABILITY DETERMINATION: (a) Natural:  When either the impacts of the
use on estuarine species, habitats, biological productivity and water quality are not significant or
that the resources of the area are able to assimilate the use and activity and their effects and
continue to function in a manner to protect significant wildlife habitats, natural biological
productivity, and values for scientific research and education; (b) Conservation:  When either the
impacts of the use on estuarine species, habitats, biological productivity, and water quality are
not significant or that the resources of the area are able to assimilate the use and activity and their
effects and continue to function in a manner which conserves long-term renewable resources,
natural biologic productivity, recreational and aesthetic values and aquaculture.

RESOURCE LIST:  includes the description, maps, and other information about significant Goal
5 resource sites within a jurisdiction, adopted by a local government as a part of the
II - 33
comprehensive plan or as a land use regulation.  A "plan inventory" adopted under OAR 660-
016-0000(5)(c) shall be considered to be a resource list.

RESTORATION: Replacing or restoring original attributes or amenities such as natural
biological productivity and aesthetic or cultural resources which have been diminished or lost by
past alterations, activities or catastrophic events.  Active restoration involves the use of specific
remedial actions such as removing dikes or fills, installing water treatment facilities, or
rebuilding or removing deteriorated urban waterfront areas.  Passive Restoration is the use of
natural processes, sequences or timing to bring about restoration after the removal of reduction
of adverse stresses.

REVIEWING AUTHORITY:  The person or persons that are reviewing a land use matter.  The
Reviewing Authority may consist of the Planning Director, Planning Commission, Board of
Commissioners, Hearings Officer or Special Hearings Officers.

REZONE:  Rezoning can take two forms: (1) a change in the zoning classification of a lot(s),
parcel(s), or tract(s) of land from one use district to another; or (2) qualified rezoning with
attachment of special conditions to a rezoning.

RIPARIAN: Of, pertaining to, or situated on the edge of the bank of a river or other body of
water.

RIPARIAN AREA:  An area adjacent to a water resource which affects or is affected by the
water resource.

RIPARIAN CORRIDOR:  A Goal 5 resource that includes the water areas, fish habitat, riparian
areas, and wetlands within the riparian corridor boundary.

RIPRAP: A layer, facing, or protective mound of stones randomly placed to prevent erosion,
scour or sloughing of a structure or embankment; also, the stone so used. Similar use of other
hard material, such as concrete rubble, is also riprap.

ROAD:  A public or private way created or intended to provide ingress or egress for persons to
one or more lots, parcels, areas, or tracts of land.  A road does not include: (a) driveway located
exclusively on the same lot, parcel or tract of land as the use it serves; (b) a private way that is
created or intended to provide ingress or egress to such land in conjunction with the use of such
land exclusively for forestry, mining, or agricultural purposes.

Opened:  a legally created right-of-way under use as access to one or more residences, and which
legally existed at the time of this Ordinance adoption.

Unopened:  a legally created right-of-way not under use as access to one or more residences.

RURAL:  Outside of city limits and/or urban growth boundaries.

II - 34
RURAL COMMUNITY:  An unincorporated community which consists primarily of permanent
residential dwellings but also has at least two other land uses that provide commercial, industrial,
or public uses (including but not limited to schools, churches, grange halls, post office) to the
community, the surrounding rural area, or to persons traveling through the area.

RURAL LAND:  Those which are outside the urban growth boundary and are:  (1)  non-urban
agricultural, forest or open space lands; or (2)  other lands suitable for sparse settlement, small
farms or acreage homesites with no or hardly any public services, and which are not suitable,
necessary or intended for urban use.

RURAL SERVICE CENTER:  An unincorporated community consisting primarily of
commercial or industrial uses providing goods and services to the surrounding rural area or to
persons traveling through the area, but which also includes some permanent residential
dwellings.

RURAL SHORELANDS AREAS (RS): A shoreland management unit (see Volume II, Part 1,
Section 3.5).

SCHOOL:  Any institution for learning, whether public or private, including:

 1. Commercial:  a facility where instruction is given to pupils in arts, crafts or trades,
and operated as a commercial enterprise as distinguished from schools privately
endowed or supported by taxation.

 2. Public:  a school under the control of and financed by legally constituted public
school districts in the State of Oregon.

 3. Private:  a school under private control offering instruction equivalent to public
schools.

SEASONAL FARM WORKER:  Any person who, for an agreed remuneration or rate of pay,
performs temporary labor for another to work in production of farm products or planting,
cultivating or harvesting of seasonal agricultural crops or in forestation or reforestation of lands,
including but not limited to, the planting, transplanting, tubing, precommercial thinning and
thinning of trees and seedlings, the clearing, piling and disposal of brush and slash and other
related activities> [OR 92-07-012PL]

SEASONAL FARM-WORKER HOUSING:  Housing limited to occupancy by seasonal farm
workers and their immediate families which is occupied no more than 9 months a year (OR 92-
07-012PL).

SEASONAL PRODUCT SALE:  The act of selling a product either:

 1. during the climatic season of its maturity, or
 2. during a season set by law, or
 3. during a customarily recognized season.
II - 35

SEDENTARY:  Attached firmly to the bottom, generally incapable of movement.

SETBACK:  The required distance between structures and all lot, parcel or tract lines.  Structures
for the purpose of setbacks do not include uncovered patios, decks, driveways, fences, signs,
vegetative screenings, or similar amenities. All setbacks are measured using right angles.

SHORELANDS:  Areas located between the Coastal Shoreland Boundary and the line of non-
aquatic vegetation fringing the Coos Bay Estuary.

SHORELINE:  The boundary line between a body of water and the land, measured on tidal
waters at mean higher high water, and on non-tidal waterways at the ordinary high-water mark.
SHORELINE BOUNDARY FOR THE PACIFIC OCEAN: The shoreline of the Pacific Ocean
in Coos County is defined by the actual vegetation line, which is the seaward limit of non-
aquatic vegetation.  This visible line of continuous upland vegetation is the boundary between
the beach and the upland.  Seasonally, patches of vegetation may progress seaward of the actual
vegetation line however, the actual vegetation line is typically visible as a continuous edge of
upland vegetation.  In certain cases, areas of geologic hazards may require that the shoreline be
moved further landward to encompass the unique geologic hazards associated with the Pacific
Ocean.  For example, the vegetation line may be at the base of a steep hill or cliff that plunges
down to the beach.  In these cases, the cliff, or geologic hazard should supersede the vegetation
line and would therefore be considered the shoreline.  A botanist, engineer, or geologist may be
needed to clearly define the shoreline of the Pacific Ocean.

SHORELINE STABILIZATION: The protection of the banks of tidal or non-tidal streams,
rivers or estuarine waters by nonstructural (vegetative) or structural (riprap, bulk heading, etc.)
means. See also definitions for "Riprap" and "Bulkhead".

SLOPE:  means the ratio of vertical distance to horizontal distance on a surface, where a ratio of
one vertical foot in change to two horizontal feet in change equals a 1:2 ratio. Example

SIGNIFICANT HABITAT AREAS: A land or water area where sustaining the natural resource
characteristics is important or essential to the production and maintenance of aquatic life or
wildlife populations. (Land or water areas designated as Significant Habitat Areas on resource
maps which are part of the inventory document which accompanies this Plan.)

SITE VISITS: Site visits to a subject property may be performed by any decision maker for
informational purposes in order to reach a decision, provided any of the information obtained
during the site visit is disclosed and an opportunity to rebut is provided.

II - 36
SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEM:  means a wind energy conversion system consisting of a
wind turbine, a support structure, and associated control or conversion electronics that has a rated
capacity of not more than 10 kilowatts and that is intended to reduce on-site consumption of
utility power.

SOCIAL CONSEQUENCES: The tangible and intangible effects upon people and their
relationships with the community in which they live resulting from a particular action or
decision.

SOLID WASTE: All useless or discarded putrescible and non-putrescible materials, including
but not limited to garbage, rubbish, refuse, ashes, paper and cardboard, sewage sludge, septic
tank and cesspool pumpings or other sludge, useless or discarded commercial, industrial,
demolition and construction materials, discarded or abandoned vehicles or parts thereof,
discarded home and industrial appliances, manure, vegetable or animal solid and semi-solid
materials, dead animals and infectious waste. The term does not include:
(a) Hazardous waste as defined in ORS 466.005;
(b) Materials used for fertilizer, soil conditioning, humus restoration, or for other productive
purposes or which are salvageable for these purposes and are used on land in agricultural
operations and the growing or harvesting of crops and the raising of fowls or animals,
provided the materials are used at or below agronomic application rates; or
(c) Woody biomass that is combusted as a fuel by a facility that has obtained a permit
described in ORS 468A.040.

SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL: Storage or disposal of industrial solid waste such as a co-
generation facility.

SOLID WASTE LANDFILL:  A site operated by means of compacting and covering waste or
solid waste at specifically designated intervals but not necessarily each operating day.

SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS MAP:  A map, or series of maps, or map overlays identifying
areas in Coos County which may have an impact on development.  The phenomena identified on
the Special Considerations Map which may have an impact include:  mineral resources, water
resources, archaeological and historical resources, dunes and non-estuarine coastal shorelands,
significant wildlife habitat and natural hazards.

SPECIAL OCCUPANCY STRUCTURE: Special occupancy structure shall mean:
a. Covered structures whose primary occupancy is for public assembly with a capacity
greater than 300 persons;
b. Every public, private, or parochial school building including child care center;
c. Buildings for colleges or adult education schools with a capacity greater than 500
persons;
d. Medical facilities with 50 or more residents or patients;
e. Jails and detention facilities; and
f. All structures and occupancies with a capacity greater than 5,000 persons.

START OF CONSTRUCTION:
II - 37
(a) For a structure other than a mobile home, START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
placement of permanent material for the construction of the primary use on a site, such as
the pouring of slabs or footings or any work beyond the stage of excavation. For a
structure without a basement or poured footings, the START OF CONSTRUCTION
means the first permanent framing or assembly of the structure, or any part thereof, on its
piling or foundation.

(b) For mobile homes not within a mobile home park or subdivision, START OF
CONSTRUCTION means securing the mobile home at its permanent location by means
of tiedowns or, in the case of a double-wide mobile home, its placement upon piers.

STREET:  A public or private way that is created or intended to provide ingress or egress to
persons to one or more lots, parcels, areas or tracts of land.  A street does not include

a. a driveway located exclusively on the same lot, parcel or tract of lands as the use
it serves;

b.  a private way that is created or intended to provide ingress or egress to such land
in conjunction with the use of such land exclusively for forestry, mining, or
agricultural purposes.

STRUCTURE:  Walled and roofed building including a gas or liquid storage tank that is
principally above ground.

STRUCTURE (BUILDING) HEIGHT:  The vertical distance measured from the average
building grade to the highest point of the roof surface, parapet, or other architectural structural
feature.

STRUCTURE OR FACILITY THAT PROVIDES WATER-DEPENDENT ACCESS:  means
anything constructed or installed, regardless of its present condition, functionality or
serviceability, that provides or provided water-dependent uses with physical access to the
adjacent coastal water body (examples include wharves, piers, docks, mooring piling, boat
ramps, water intake or discharge structures, or navigational aids).

SUBDIVIDE LAND:  To divide a lot, parcel, area or tract of land into four or more lots within a
calendar year except, for the purpose of this definition, "lot, parcel, area or tract of land" shall be
interpreted as not necessarily having to include all contiguous ownership in the subdivision plat.
A portion of a large contiguous ownership may be subdivided, provided the residual parcel (that
portion of the contiguous ownership proposed to be excluded from the plat) meets the following
criteria:

 a. the residual parcel conforms to all other development standards of this Ordinance;
and
 b. the residual parcel shall not be rendered "landlocked"; and
II - 38
c. the residual parcel shall not be bisected by the creation of a subdivision access
road;
and
 d. the residual parcel must either be:
  i. zoned as resource land, or
  ii. must have an area greater than or equal to ten (10) acres.

SUBDIVISION:  Either an act of subdividing land or an area, lot, parcel or tract of land
subdivided as defined in these definitions.

SUBDIVISION PLAT:  A final map and other writing containing all the descriptions, locations,
specifications, dedications, provisions and information concerning a subdivision.

SUBORDINATE: Placed in a lower order, class, or rank;  occupying a lower position in a
regular descending series;  inferior in order, nature, dignity, power, importance, or the like:
belonging to an inferior order in classification, and having a lower position in a recognized scale;
secondary, minor.  (As pertaining to "subordination of use/activity plan provisions to plan
policies", the term "subordinate" is used as defined by Black's Law Dictionary.)

SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of an existing
structure, the total cost of which exceeds 50 percent of the real market value of the structure.
When applying this definition, the cumulative impact of all development work completed within
the previous five (5) year period shall be considered.

SUBSTRATE:  The medium upon which an organism lives and grows.  The surface of the land
or bottom of a water body.

SUBTIDAL:  Below the level of mean lower low tide (MLLT).

TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE:  A committee established to act in a technical review
capacity for the Board of Commissioners, which ahs the responsibility to examine all major
partition plats, subdivision plats, planned community plats, and at the discretion of the Planning
Director, minor partition plats and assist the Planning Director in rendering a decision relating to
the approval, conditional approval, or disapproval of said applications.

TEMPORARY ALTERATION:  Dredging, filling, or another estuarine alteration occurring over
a specified short period of time which is needed to facilitate a use allowed by an acknowledged
plan. Temporary alterations may not be for more than three (3) years and the affected area must
be restored to its previous condition. Temporary alterations include:

1.   Alterations necessary for federally authorized navigation projects (e.g., access to
dredged material disposal sites by barge or pipeline and staging areas or dredging
for jetting maintenance),

2.   Alterations to establish mitigation sites, alterations for bridge construction or
repair and for drilling or other exploratory operations, and
II - 39

3.   Minor structures (such as blinds) necessary for research and educational
observation.
TEMPORARY OCCUPANT:  any person that occupies any room or rooms for habitation for a
continuous period not exceeding 30 days. This excludes any person who pays for lodging on a
monthly basis.

TEMPORARY RESIDENCE:  Mobile home, travel trailer or recreational vehicle used as a
dwelling temporarily during construction of a permitted structure.   Use not to exceed one (1)
year, subject to renewal by authorization of the Planning Director or designee.

TEMPORARY USE:  A use that is not lasting or permanent, but is in effect for a certain amount
of time only.  Temporary uses include but are not limited to medical hardship dwellings or
dwellings that are allowed while building a new home.  Once these temporary uses are no longer
needed, they must be removed from the property.

TENTATIVE MAP:  A map setting forth the proposed plan of partitioning, subdivision or
planned community in conformance with the provisions of this Ordinance and subject to review
and modification.  [OR 92-07-012PL]

TERRITORIAL SEA: The ocean and seafloor areas from mean-low-water seaward three
nautical miles.

TIDAL MARSH: Wetlands from lower high-water (LHW) inland to the line of non-aquatic
vegetation.

TIDELANDS: Land overflowed during flood tide.

TIMBER FARMING/HARVESTING: Planting, growing, thinning, harvesting, etc., of trees for
commercial purposes. Logging road construction is also included in this category.

TOP OF BANK:  Topographical break at the top of the streambank; point at which flood water
leaves the channel.

TRACT: A unit of land that has not been partitioned or subdivided that is listed on the same deed
of record or multiple contiguous (touching by more than one point) units of land within the same
ownership.

Examples as follows:
II - 40

OWNERS OF    OWNERS OF CONTIGUOUS DOES A SEPARATE
PROPERTY “A”   PROPERTY “B”   TRACT, LOT OR
PARCEL EXIST

John Adam Doe   John Doe     No
J. Adam Doe   John A. Doe    No
John & Mary Doe  J.A. & M.S. Doe    No
John A. Doe   Mary S. Doe    Yes
John & Mary Doe  M.S. Doe     Yes

TRANSPORTATION AGENCY:  A unit of government involved with planning and
constructing land, water or airway transportation facilities or improvements, and which has the
authority to exercise the power of eminent domain.  [OR 92-07-012PL]

TSUNAMI INUNDATION MAPS: Tsunami inundation maps shall mean the map, or maps, in
the Oregon Department of Geology and Mineral Industries (DOGAMI) Tsunami Inundation Map
(TIM) Series, adopted by the DOGAMI on [date], which covers the area within Coos County.

UNINCORPORATED COMMUNITY:  a settlement with all of the following characteristics: (a)
it is made up primarily of lands subject to an exception to Statewide Planning goal 3, goal 4 or
both; (b) it was either identified in a county's acknowledged comprehensive plan as a "rural
community", "service center", "rural center", "resort community", or similar term before this
division was adopted (October 28, 1994), or it is listed in the Department of Land Conservation
and Development's January 30, 1997 "Survey of Oregon's Unincorporated Communities"; (c) it
lies outside the urban growth boundary of any city; (d) it is not incorporated as a city; and (e) it
met the definition of one of the four types of unincorporated communities in Sections (6) through
(9) of OAR 660-022-0010, and includes the uses described in those definitions, prior to the
adoption of OAR 660-022 (October 28, 1994).

UNIT:  A piece of apparatus serving to perform one particular function.

URBAN DEVELOPMENT AREAS (UD): A shoreland management unit (see Volume II, Part 1,
Section 3.5).

URBAN GROWTH AREA:  Includes those lands lying outside an incorporated city, but within
an adopted Urban Growth Boundary.

URBAN GROWTH BOUNDARY:  Established areas to identify and separate urbanizable land
from rural land.

URBAN LAND: Urban areas are those places which must have an incorporated city. Such areas
may include lands adjacent to and outside the incorporated city and may also:
II - 41
1.  have concentrations of persons who generally reside and work in the area;
2.  have supporting public facilities and services.

URBAN UNINCORPORATED COMMUNITY:  An unincorporated community which has the
following characteristics: (a) include at least 150 permanent residential dwellings units; (b)
contains a mixture of land uses, including three or more public, commercial or industrial land
uses; (c) includes areas served by a community sewer system; and (d) includes areas served by a
community water system.

URBAN WATER-DEPENDENT AREAS (UW):  A shoreland management unit (see Volume II,
Part 1, Section 3.5).

URBANIZABLE LAND: Those lands within the urban growth boundary and which are
identified and:
1.  determined to be necessary and suitable for future urban uses;
2.  can be served by urban services and facilities;
3.  are needed for the expansion of an urban area.

USE:  The end to which a land or water area is ultimately employed. A use often involves the
placement of structures or facilities for industry, commerce, habitation, or recreation.

USED FOR THE PURPOSES OF LAND DIVISION:  When a road or street is used to provide
access to a parcel in a partition, or a lot in a subdivision or planned community.

UTILITIES: Public service structures which fall into two categories:

1.  low-intensity facilities consist of communication facilities (including power and
telephone lines), sewer, water and gas lines, and
2.   high-intensity facilities, which consist of storm water and treated waste water
outfalls (including industrial waste water).

Note: in shoreland units this category also includes sewage treatment plants, electrical
substations and similar public service structures. However, these structures are defined as "fill
for non-water-dependent/related uses" in aquatic areas.

UTILITY FACILITY-AIR AND WATER NAVIGATION AIDS:  A facility or aid to determine
position, course, distance traveled, or other facility to help navigate aircraft or waterborne
vehicles.

UTILITY FACILITY - COMMUNICATIONS:  A facility for the reception, broadcast or
distribution of audio and visual images, including but not limited to radio, television, and other
communications.

UTILITY FACILITY - INCLUDING POWER FOR PUBLIC SALE:  A facility for the
generation and distribution of a public or private service including but not limited to electricity,
II - 42
telephone, natural gas, water, sewage service, and other services providing for energy or
communication needs; and may include the generation and distribution of power for public sale.

UTILITY FACILITY - NOT INCLUDING POWER FOR PUBLIC SALE:  A facility for the
generation and distribution of a public or private service including but not limited to electricity,
telephone, natural gas, water, sewage services, and other services providing for energy or
communication needs;  this use does not include the generation or distribution of power for
public sale.

UTILITY FACILITY - SERVICE LINES:  A distribution line for supplying a utility service
including but not limited to telephone, power, water, sewer, etc.

UTILITY FACILITY - SEWER PLANT/PUMP STATION:  A facility engaged in a process to
which sewage is subjected in order to remove or alter its objectionable constituents so as to
render it less dangerous or offensive.  the facilities may include but are not limited to reservoirs,
mains, laterals, trunk lines, pumping equipment, and treatment facilities.

UTILITY FACILITY - WATER PLANT/PUMP STATION:  A facility which may include a
system of reservoirs, channels, mains, and pumping and purification equipment by which a water
supply is obtained and distributed.

VACATION RENTALS:   A furnished apartment or house rented out on a temporary basis to
tourists or guests as an alternative to a hotel/motel or group cottage.  The definition includes
dwelling(s) or dwelling unit(s) for the purpose of being rented or occupied on a daily or weekly
basis, or is available for use, rent, or occupancy on a daily or weekly basis, or is advertised, or
listed by an agent, as available for use, rent, or occupancy on a daily or weekly basis and are
predominately rented out less than 30 days.

VARIANCE:  A device which may grant a property owner relief from certain provisions of this
Ordinance when because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or topographical
conditions of the property, compliance would result in a particular hardship upon the owner, as
distinguished from a mere inconvenience.

VEGETATION LAYER:  Canopy, midstory and groundcover levels of vegetation, commonly
represented by trees, shrubs and herbaceous plant species.  Determined by height of vegetation.

VETERINARY CLINIC/KENNEL:  A facility or building or portion thereof designed or used
for the care, observation or treatment of domestic animals.

WATER-DEPENDENT: A use or activity which can be carried out only on, in, or adjacent to
water areas because the use requires access to the water body for water-borne transportation,
recreation, energy production, or source of water.

A.  The following definitions also apply:

1. access:  means physical contact with or use of the water;
II - 43
2. energy production:  means uses which need quantities of water to produce
energy directly (e.g., hydroelectric facilities, ocean thermal energy
conversion);
3. recreational: e.g., recreational marinas, boat ramps and support;
4. require:  means the use either by its intrinsic nature (e.g., fishing,
navigation, boat moorage) or at the current level of technology cannot
exist without water access;
5. source of water:  means facilities for the appropriation of quantities of
water for cooling processing or other integral functions;
6. water-borne transportation:  means uses of water access:
   i. which are themselves transportation (e.g., navigation);
   ii. which require the receipt of shipment of goods by water; or
iii. which are necessary to support water-borne transportation (e.g.,
moorage fueling, servicing of watercraft, ships, boats, etc. terminal
and transfer facilities).

B. Typical examples of water-dependent uses include the following:

1. aquaculture;
2. certain scientific and educational activities which, by their nature, require
access to coastal waters:  estuarine research activities and equipment
mooring and support;
3. commercial:  e.g., commercial fishing marinas and support; fish
processing and sales; boat sales, rentals, and supplies;
4. industrial:  e.g., manufacturing to include boat building and repair; water-
borne transportation, terminals, and support; energy production which
needs quantities of water to produce energy directly; water intake
structures for facilities needing quantities of water for cooling, processing,
or other integral functions.
5. recreation:  means water access for fishing, swimming, boating, etc.
Recreational uses are water-dependent only if use of the water is an
integral part of the activity;

WATER-DEPENDENT DEVELOPMENT SHORELANDS (WD): A shoreland management
unit (see Volume II, Part 1, Section 3.5).

WATER ORIENTED: A use whose attraction to the public is enhanced by a view of or access to
coastal waters.

WATER-RELATED:  Uses which are not directly dependent upon access to a water body, but
which provide goods or services that are directly associated with water-dependent land or
waterway use, and which, if not located adjacent to water, would result in a public loss of quality
in the goods or services offered. Except as necessary for water-dependent or water-related uses
or facilities, residencies, parking lots, spoil and dump sites, roads and highways, restaurants,
businesses, factories, and trailer parks are not generally considered dependent on or related to
water location needs.
II - 44

WATER RESOURCE:  Rivers, streams, lakes, and ponds, and adjacent wetlands.

WETLANDS:  Areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or ground water at a
frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support, a
prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated conditions.  Wetlands generally
include swamps, marshes, bogs and similar areas.

WETLANDS BOUNDARY: The land areas where excess water is the dominant factor
determining the nature of soil development and the types of plant and animal communities living
at the soil surface. Wetland soils retain sufficient moisture to support aquatic or semi-aquatic
plant life. In marine and estuarine areas, wetlands are bounded at the lower extreme by extreme
low water and in freshwater areas, by a depth of six feet. The areas below wetlands are
submerged lands.

WIND ENERGY SYSTEM:  consists of equipment that converts energy from the wind into
usable forms of energy (such as electricity) and then stores or transfers the energy.  This
equipment includes any base, blade, foundation, wind generator, nacelle, rotor, wind tower,
transformer, vane, wire, inverter, batteries, or other component used in the system.  A wind
energy system may be grid-connected or a standalone system.

WIND TOWER:  is the monopole, freestanding, or guyed structure that supports a wind
generator.

WINERY, COMMERCIAL (Rural Residential zones):  A facility for the preparation, processing,
marketing, and distribution of wines.  May include a tasting room.  A winery in rural residential
must be strictly and customarily incidental to the primary purpose of acreage homesites outside
of urban growth boundaries.  A winery may only be allowed in conjunction with an existing
permitted dwelling.

Pursuant to OR 04-1-002PL (6-30-04) for the purposes of a commercial winery only
within the rural residential zoning districts the following definitions apply:

a. Fruit-processing facility is a facility that handles produce only of which
25% must be grown on the site or adjacent to that site.  Vineyards,
orchards, and berry farms use fruit processing facilities to process grapes
grown n the site, but are not allowed to introduce yeast into any juice
pressed from that fruit unless it has a Federal and State license to do so.  A
facility producing grape or fruit juice may not be called a winery unless it
is licensed to add yeast to the grape or fruit juice.
b. Tasting room is a room at a winery where customers may taste various
wines, usually free of charge.  State laws defines taste as 1.5 ounces of
wine.  Many wineries have tasting rooms, so do many wine stores.  Many
vineyards do not produce wine and therefore are not wineries, but have
tasting rooms.  An example is Melrose Vineyards in Sutherlin.  The wine
II - 45
they sell is under special license and must be produced from the grapes
grown in that specific vineyard.

c. Vineyard is farm land devoted to the production of grapes only.

d. Winery is a Federal and State licensed facility that produces wine from
various fruits, including grapes.  A winery may not have a vineyard,
choosing instead to purchase various fruit in the open market.  An
example is the Old Bridge Winery in Remote.

e. Wholesale winery is a Federal and State licensed facility that produces
wine that does not have retail sales, a tasting room, or public access.

WRECKING YARD: Any property used as a site for breaking up, dismantling, sorting, storing,
distributing, trading, bartering, buying, or selling of any scrap, waste, or disposed material. This
use includes automobile graveyards and scrap metal facilities. This use shall not include storage,
repair, or dismantling of implements for husbandry.

YARD: An open space which lies between a lot, parcel or tract line and a building line.

a. Front yard:  a yard extending across the full width of the lot, parcel or tract
between the front lot, parcel or tract line and the building line.

b. Rear yard:  a yard extending the full width of the lot, parcel or tract between the
rear lot, parcel or tract line and the rear building line.

c. Side yard:  the yard extending from the front yard to the rear yard except in the
case of a corner lot, parcel or tract when the side yard on the flanking street shall
extend to the rear property line.

YURT: is a round, domed shelter of cloth or canvas on a collapsible frame with no plumbing,
sewage disposal hookup or internal cooking appliance.  Yurts may only be used in approved
campgrounds.

ZONING DISTRICT:  A zoning designation in this Ordinance text and delineated on the zoning
maps, in which requirements for the use of land or buildings and development standards are
prescribed.       * OR 91-05-006PL 7-10-91