ARTICLE V - Page 1

ARTICLE FIVE -- ANIMAL CONTROL

DIVISION ONE – GENERAL PROVISIONS
[Extensively revised by Ordinance 15-11-012L, Effective January 1,
2016]

SECTION 05.01.010  PURPOSE

This Article shall be known as “Animal Control .” The purpose of
the Animal Control Article is to provide rules and regulations
governing the keeping, licensing, and control of dogs and other
animals in Coos  County. Further, to reflect the needs and
realities of animal control and animal welfare issues by creating
ordinances that are enforceable, reflective of community
expectations, and a practical tool in our efforts to hold animal
Owners accountable to reasonable standards of responsibility for
their animals, while protecting all citizens and animals of the
County.

SECTION 05.01.020  RELATIONSHIP TO STATE LAW

Oregon Revised Statutes Chapter 609 shall apply in Coos County
except where expressly superseded by this Article.  ORS 609.015(1)
authorizes County ordinances to supersede the provisions of ORS
Chapter 609.

SECTION 05.01.030  COOPERATION WITH CITIES

 (1) Nothing in this Article is intended to supersede any
city ordinance enacted for the purpose of controlling
dogs or other animals within the corporate limits of the
city.
 (2) The Board of Commissioners may enter into written
agreements, with any incorporated city located within
the County, relating to coordination and cooperation of
efforts for the control of dogs or cats within the
County.

SECTION 05.01.040  DEFINITIONS

As used in any Division of this Article, unless the context
requires otherwise:

(1) “Animal” means any nonhuman mammal, bird, reptile,
amphibian, or fish.
(2) “Animal-at-Large” means any of the following:
(a)   A dog that is not physically restrained by leash,
tether, or other physical control device and under
the physical control of a capable person, unless in
an enclosed area specifically designated for
animals to be without a leash or on its Owner’s or
 ARTICLE V - Page 2
Keeper’s own property; or
(b)  An animal that, even if physically restrained, is
on public or private property where it is not
authorized to be.
(3) “Animal rescue entity” means an individual or
organization, including but not limited to an animal
control agency, humane society, animal shelter, animal
sanctuary, animal foster home or boarding kennel not
subject to ORS 167.374, but excluding a veterinary
facility that keeps, houses, and maintains in its
physical or legal custody 10 or more animals and that
solicits or accepts donations in any form.
(4) “Assistance Animal” means a dog or other animal that has
been individually trained to do work or perform tasks
for the benefit of an individual as defined in ORS
659A.143(1)(a).
 (5) "Board of Commissioners" means the governing body of
Coos County.
 (6) "Commercial Dog Kennel" means a place of business for
the care of dogs or cats, or both, including but not
limited to the boarding, grooming, breeding, training or
selling of dogs or cats, or both.  The term is not
intended to include an anim al hospital or a non-
commercial kennel.
 (7) "Dog or Cat Owner”, or "Dog or Cat Keeper" means:
  (a) Any person, firm, association or corporation who is
the licensed owner of a dog or cat, or who has a
right of property in a dog or cat, or who harbors a
dog or cat, or who has it in said person's care,
possession, custody or control, or who knowingly
permits a dog or cat to remain on any premises
occupied by said person.  Except for purposes of
Section 05.04.030, owner does not include
veterinarians or commercial kennel operators
temporarily maintaining dogs or cats, or both that
are owned by other persons, on their premises for a
period of not more than thirty (30) days.
  (b) Any person, except a veterinarian or commercial
kennel operator, who resides where a dog or cat is
kept, harbored or cared for shall be presumed to be
the owner of that dog or cat.  This presumption may
be rebutted by proof that such person has no
property right in the dog or cat, is not the
licensed owner of the dog, is not harboring the dog
or cat, and is not caring for the dog or cat.
 (8) "Licensing Officer" means the Clerk for Coos County or
any person the Clerk designates to issue licenses and
receive fees required by this Article.
 (9) "Neutered Dog or Cat" means a dog or cat made sterile by
the removal of the ovaries and uterus, ovarian
hysterectomy, in a female dog or cat; the removal of the
male gonads in the male dog or cat, and any other method
of neutering a dog or cat which is certified by a
licensed veterinarian.

 ARTICLE V - Page 3
 (10) "Non-Commercial Dog Kennel" means an establishment or
premises where five (5) or more dogs, over six (6)
months of age, are kept or maintained for the hobby of
the householder.  This term does not include an animal
hospital.

SECTION 05.01.050 ESTABLISHMENT OF DOG CONTROL DISTRICT

The Board of Commissioners has declared Coos County a dog control
district.  The Board of Commissioners are the supervisors of the
Coos County Dog Control District, and will provide for
administration and enforcement of a dog control program.

 ARTICLE V - Page 4
DIVISION TWO – LICENSES AND FEES

SECTION 05.02.010  RESERVED

SECTION 05.02.020  DOG LICENSES AND TAGS

 (1) Dogs shall be licensed as provided for by ORS Chapter
609, except that the fees to be charged for licenses and
tags shall be the fees established by this Division,
rather than the suggested fees set out in Chapter 609.
Before issuance of a license, the owner must present a
Rabies Vaccination Certificate or written statement from
a licensed veterinarian stating that a rabies
vaccination would be detrimental to the dog’s health.
 (2) A license tag issued to the dog shall be securely
attached and visible on the dog for which it is issued.
 (3) Licenses shall be valid for a period of one (1) or three
(3) years from the date of purchase, at the option of
the owner/keeper, or until the, rabies vaccine
expiration date, whichever first occurs.  A dog owner
shall renew the dog license before it becomes delinquent
for as long as he or she owns the dog. [24-06-003]
 (4) If an identification tag is lost, the owner may obtain a
duplicate identification tag upon satisfactory proof of
loss and payment of the sum established in Section
05.02.050.
(5) No license fee shall be required for any dog that is an
Assistance Animal. A license shall be issued for such
dog upon proper proof of rabies vaccination and upon
filing of an affidavit by the person showing such dog to
fall within this exemption. Such affidavit shall be
filed with and subject to approval by the Licensing
Officer.
 (6) Any person who fails to comply with any of subsections
(1) through (5) commits a Class C violation.  [18-04-
003L]

SECTION 05.02.030  KENNEL LICENSE

(1) Any person who is the Owner or Keeper of five (5) or
more dogs over six (6) months of age may not operate a
kennel without first obtaining a kennel license.
(2) Any person who is the Owner or Keeper of a dog that has
been classified as a dangerous dog is ineligible for a
Kennel license.
(3) Every person operating a kennel, whether commercial or
non-commercial, shall procure a kennel license by paying
to the licensing officer an annual license fee, as
provided in Section 05.02.050.  Before issuance of a
kennel license, owners of commercial kennels must
present prior proof of a Rabies Vaccination Certificate
only for dogs owned by the license applicant at the time
application for the license is made.  Applicants for
 ARTICLE V - Page 5
non-commercial licenses must present prior proof of a
Rabies Vaccination Certificate for all dogs
owned by the applicant.
 (4) Kennel licenses are in lieu of individual dog licenses
and shall be valid for one (1) year from the date of
issuance or until the expiration of the earliest rabies
immunity, whichever occurs earlier.  Dogs licensed under
this section must at all times be confined to the kennel
premises so as not to be at large.  No dog that has been
classified as a dangerous dog may be licensed under this
section.
 (5) A kennel operator, whether of a commercial or non-
commercial kennel, shall renew the kennel license before
the expiration of the license for as long as he or she
operates the kennel.
(6) Any person who fails to comply with any of subsections
(1) through (5) commits a Class B violation.  [18-04-
003L]
 (7) A kennel license does not in any way exempt the holder
from their responsibility of complying with any other
provision of Coos County Code, zoning or permitting
requirements, or other applicable law, unless
specifically provided for by law.

SECTION 05.02.040  ANIMAL RESCUE ENTITY

 (1)  Any Animal Rescue Entity operating, in whole or in
part, in Coos County shall obtain a certificate of
registration from the Licensing Officer prior to
beginning operations.
 (2) The Animal Rescue Entity shall procure an Animal Rescue
Entity certificate by paying to the Licensing Officer an
annual license fee, as provided in Section 05.02.050.
 (3) An animal rescue entity may not transfer a certificate
of registration issued under this section to another
person without the written consent of the Licensing
Officer.
 (4) Whenever a Coos County authorized representative is
advised or has reason to believe that an animal rescue
entity is operating without a certificate of
registration, the representative may visit and conduct
an on-site investigation of the premises of the
suspected animal rescue entity. The purpose of the
investigation is to determine whether the animal
rescue entity is subject to the registration
requirements of this section.
 (5) Animal Rescue Entity License applicants must comply
with ORS 609.415 and ORS 609.420 and all other
applicable regulations and law. An Animal Rescue
Entity License does not in any way exempt the holder
from their responsibility of complying with any other
provision of Coos County Code, zoning or permitting
requirements, or other applicable law, unless
specifically provided for by law.
 ARTICLE V - Page 6
(6) At any reasonable time, an authorized representative
of Coos County, a law enforcement agency, or the
United States Department of Agriculture may conduct an
on-site investigation to determine whether the entity
is in compliance with this section and Oregon law.
(7) Any person who fails to comply with any of subsections
(1) through (6) commits a Class B violation.  [18-04-
003L]

SECTION 05.02.050  LICENSES AND OTHER FEES

(1) A dog license fee and other fees shall be due and
payable upon the issuance of the license or redemption
of an impounded animal.
(2) The County Clerk shall keep a record of each Dog,
Kennel, and Animal Rescue Entity license issued under
this Article.
(3) For a specific fee amount, refer to the Coos County Fee
Schedule.
 (4) In addition to any fees listed in the Coos County Fee
Schedule, the following redemption fees may be applied:
  (a) Actual cost of medical care fees, if required.
  (b) Microchipping fees, if required.

 ARTICLE V - Page 7
DIVISION THREE – ANIMAL SHELTER OPERATIONS

SECTION 05.03.010  RESERVED

SECTION 05.03.020  REDEMPTION AND SALE

 (1) Redemption of an impounded animal shall be made by
exhibiting satisfactory proof of ownership and by paying
the required fees and charges, as specified in Section
05.02.050.
 (2) An impounded animal shall be kept for a minimum of three
(3) days if without a license and for at least five (5)
days if it has a license,  before being sold or
euthanized.
 (3) An impounded animal may be sold, but for the following
purposes only:
  (a) As a pet; or
  (b) To perform as a working animal provided such work
does not by definition subject the animal to
physical harm or inhumane conditions.  Acceptable
work functions include but are not limited to
assistance animals, livestock protection or
control, guard, tracing or detection work and
performing animals; or
  (c) For use as a blood donor under the supervision of a
licensed veterinarian.
  The Animal Shelter shall refuse to sell an animal if the
person making the sale reasonably believes that the
animal will be used for any purpose other than those
specified in this subsection (3).  Any person purchasing
an animal shall be required to supply a driver’s license
or other similar identification.  No more than two (2)
animals may be sold to any one family or individual
within a six (6) month period unless upon special
application by the purchaser specifying the reason for
purchasing that number of animals and the person making
the sale reasonably believes that such animals will not
be used for any purpose other than those specified in
this subsection.
 (4) No live animal shall be sold by the Animal Shelter for
any of the follow purposes:
  (a) Surgical or medical demonstration or vivisection.
  (b) Biological or medical experimentation.
  (c) Uses prohibited by local, state or federal law.
  This subsection does not prohibit the selling of a live
animal for uses allowed by Section 05.03.020(3)(c).
 (5) Any dog sold by the Animal Shelter shall first receive a
rabies vaccination, and shall be sold subject to
licensing and fees at the time of purchase.
 (6) The Animal Shelter may euthanize animals only in the
following circumstances:
  (a) An animal is sick or injured; or
  (b) To prevent the number of animals at the Animal
Shelter from exceeding the capacity of the Animal
 ARTICLE V - Page 8
Shelter; or
  (c) There is insufficient food to feed all the animals
at the Animal Shelter; or
  (d) An animal is hazardous to humans or other animals;
or
  (e) An animal is specifically requested by the owner in
writing to be euthanized.
 (7) The Animal Shelter Operator or Animal Control Officer,
and supervisor shall mutually agree when, if, and which
animals in the care and custody of the Animal Shelter
should be euthanized.  I f either the Animal Shelter
Operator or Animal Control Officer, and  supervisor is
unavailable, the Sheriff shall serve in their place.  An
animal in the care and custody of the Animal Shelter may
be euthanized by any method permitted under state law.
 (8) Any animal given to the Animal Shelter by the owner for
disposal shall be sold or euthanized pursuant to the
provisions of this section.

SECTION 05.03.030  SICK OR INJURED DOGS OR CATS

 (1) Any sick or injured dog or cat found by an  Enforcement
Officer or Animal Control Officer off the premises of
the owner shall be delivered to its owner.  Any such dog
or cat for which the owner is either unknown or cannot
be reached after reasonable attempts to do so, shall be
delivered by the Animal Control Officer  to a
veterinarian for medical treatment.  Upon delivery to a
veterinarian, the following procedures shall apply:
  (a) When the dog is unlicensed and the owner is
unknown, the veterinarian shall determine whether
the dog is so severely injured or incurably
crippled that the humane thing to do would be to
destroy the dog.  If the determination is made to
destroy the dog, the dog may be destroyed
immediately.  If the veterinarian determines
instead that the dog should be given treatment,
such treatment may be given, provided, however, the
dog may be destroyed if unclaimed by its owner
within three (3) days after being delivered to the
veterinarian.  This subsection applies to all cats
whose owner is unknown.
  (b) When the dog is licensed or the owner is known and
cannot be reached, a veterinarian shall determine
whether the dog is so severely injured or incurably
crippled that the humane thing to do would be to
destroy the dog.  If the determination is made to
destroy the dog, the dog may be destroyed
immediately.  If the veterinarian determines
instead that the dog should be given treatment,
such treatment may be given; provided, however,
that the dog may be destroyed if unclaimed by its
owner within five (5) days after being delivered to
the veterinarian.  This subsection applies to all
 ARTICLE V - Page 9
cats whose owner is known.
 (2) Any Enforcement Officer or Animal Control Officer may
humanely destroy a dog or cat too s everely injured to
move and not on the property of its owner, when the
owner is either unknown or cannot be reached after
reasonable attempts to do so.
 (3) Arrangements for fees, selection of veterinarians,
liability of veterinarians, etc., shall be determined by
separate contracts between the Board of Commissioners
and individual veterinarians.
 (4) The owner shall be liable for any boarding, care and
medical expenses incurred in accordance with this
section.

 ARTICLE V - Page 10
DIVISION FOUR – ENFORCEMENT AND DANGEROUS DOGS

SECTION 05.04.010  RESERVED

SECTION 05.04.020  OFFICER ENFORCEMENT

 (1)  Before entering onto private land, an Enforcement
Officer or Animal Control Officer shall obtain consent
of the person with authority to give consent, unless
they have a warrant or warrant exception that authorizes
entry.
 (2)  If the owner or occupant is not willing or able to
consent or cannot be found, an Enforcement Officer or
Animal Control Officer shall obtain a warrant before
entering onto private property.
 (3)  An Enforcement Officer or Animal Control Officer in the
course and scope of the officer’s duties has the
privilege of entering onto private land only if there is
probable cause to believe that there is imminently
hazardous, unsafe, or dangerous circumstances requiring
immediate action to avoid serious damage to property,
serious injury or death.
 (4)  Any Enforcement Officer or Animal Control Officer may
impound an animal if there is probable cause to believe
that a violation of this Article has occurred and the
animal is the subject of that alleged violation. The
Animal Shelter may hold said animal until the resolution
of the violation, and the owner or keeper of the animal
shall be responsible for the fees as provided in this
Article.
 (5) Any person who fails to surrender an animal to an
Enforcement Officer or Animal Control Officer when
presented with a warrant or order from the court or
hearings officer or an  Enforcement Officer’s demand
based on probable cause of a violation, commits a Class
B violation.
 (6) Any person who intentionally resists, uses or threatens
the use of physical force, or otherwise puts the
Enforcement Officer or Animal Control Officer at risk of
physical injury commits a Class B violation.
  [18-04-003L]

SECTION 05.04.030  DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE

 (1) No dog owner shall permit a dog to run at large.  As
used in this section, "running at large" does not
include:
  (a) Use of a dog under the supervision of a person in
order to legally hunt, chase trap, or tree
wildlife;
  (b) Use to control or protect livestock; or
  (c) Use in other related agricultural activities.
 (2) Any dog Owner or Keeper who permits a dog to run at
 ARTICLE V - Page 11
large commits a Class C violation. [18-04-003]

SECTION 05.04.040  IDENTIFICATION OF DANGEROUS DOGS

 (1)  The Owner or Keeper of a dog determined to be dangerous,
pursuant to this section, shall have the dog identified
by a microchip implant. A reasonable fee for
microchipping shall be charged to the Owner or Keeper of
a dangerous dog that is microchipped at the animal
shelter prior to being released.  The dog may also be
required to wear an identifying collar and ID tag as
determined by Animal Control.
 (2)  The Owner or Keeper of a dog determined to be dangerous,
shall provide Animal Control with the address where said
dog is kept, and shall immediately notify Animal Control
if said dog is no longer kept at that address for more
than twenty-four (24) hours due to the dog running away,
being given away, sold, euthanized, or for any other
reason, and provide Animal Control with the name,
address, and phone number of any new Owner or written
verification of euthanasia of said dog.
 (3)  Failure to comply with Subsections (1) and (2) are a
Class C violations.  [18-04-003L]

SECTION 05.04.050  DANGEROUS DOGS – PENALTIES

  (1)  Class C  violation dangerous behavior is established if
a dog at large is found to menace, chase, display
threatening or aggressive behavior or otherwise threaten
or endanger the safety of any domestic animal or
livestock, but does not cause physical injury.
 (2)  Class B violation dangerous behavior is established if a
dog at large is found to menace, chase, display
threatening or aggressive behavior or otherwise threaten
or endanger the safety of any person, or while confined
bites any person and does not cause serious physical
injury.
 (3)  Class A violation dangerous behavior is established if a
dog, while at large, bites or causes physical injury to
any domestic animal or livestock, or bites any person.
 (4)  Class A violation extremely dangerous behavior is
established if:
  (a)  A dog kills or mortally injures any domestic animal
or livestock, unless the domestic animal or
livestock is trespassing upon the property where
the dog is authorized to be; or
  (b)  A dog, whether or not confined, causes the serious
injury or death of any person.  [18-04-003L]
 (5)  The class of dangerous behavior may be mitigated if the
Owner or Keeper establishes that the dog acted in
response to being abused, tormented, or attacked, was
directed toward a trespasser or there were similar
mitigating or extenuating circumstances.

 ARTICLE V - Page 12
SECTION 05.04.060 DANGEROUS DOGS – FURTHER REQUIREMENTS

 (1) In addition to the other requirements of this Animal
Control Article, the Owner of a dog that has committed
dangerous behavior as described herein shall comply with
the following restrictions in addition to any other
restrictions the court deems reasonable under the
circumstances:
  (a)  If the dog has engaged in Class C violation
dangerous behavior, the dog shall be restricted by
a physical device or structure that prevents the
dog from reaching any public right -of-way or
adjoining property whenever the dog is outside the
Owner's home or when not on a leash off the Owner's
property.
  (b)  If the dog has engaged in Class B violation
dangerous behavior the Owner shall confine the dog
within a Secure Enclosure whenever the dog is not
on a leash off the Owner's property or inside the
home of the Owner.
  (c) If the dog has engaged in Class A violation
dangerous behavior the Owner shall confine the dog
within a Secure Enclosure whenever the dog is not
on a leash off the Owner's property or inside the
home of the Owner and may also be required to post
warning signs on the property where the dog is
kept.
  (d)  Any dog that has been found to have engaged in
Class A violation extremely dangerous behavior may
be euthanized. In addition, the court has the
authority to suspend, for a period of time, the dog
Owner's right to be the Owner of any dog in Coos
County, including dogs currently owned by tha t
person. [18-04-003L]
  (2)  In addition to the normal licensing fees established in
Section 5.02.050, there shall be an additional licensing
and supervision fee for dogs that have been determined
to have engaged in dangerous behavior. This additional
fee shall first be payable at the time that
determination is made, and renewals are due upon the
anniversary of the determination.
 (3)  A person whose dog has been classified as a dangerous
dog, and who has complied with the restrictions imposed
for at least one (1) year, may request in writing that
the restrictions be lifted or reduced. Modifications to
the restrictions or declassification of the dog may be
made at the discretion of the Board of Commissioners
upon consideration of proof of additional training,
successful temperament testing, or other evidence that
the dog’s dangerous behavior has been mitigated.