ARTICLE VII - Page 1
 ARTICLE SEVEN -- ENVIRONMENT AND HEALTH

DIVISION ONE - SOLID WASTE

SECTION 07.01.010  RESERVED

SECTION 07.01.020  RESERVED

SECTION 07.01.030  PURPOSE AND POLICY

The purpose of this Division is to protect the health, safety
and welfare of the people of Coos County and, pursuant to the
provisions of ORS Chapter 459 and ORS Chapter 203, to provide
for a program relating to the collection, disposal, recovery
and management of wastes and solid wastes within Coos County
and to:
 (1) Provide for safe and sanitary accumulation,
collection, transportation, storage and disposal,
including resource recovery of wastes and solid
wastes.
 (2) Prevent uncontrolled dumping of wastes and solid
wastes on public and private property.
 (3) Provide a planning implementation method for
adequate waste and solid waste control, disposal
and recovery.
 (4) Be part of a program of control of waste and solid
waste in cooperation with federal, state and local
agencies responsible for the prevention, control
or abatement of air, water and ground pollution.
 (5) Provide for sanitary, efficient and economical
ways of waste and solid waste collection, disposal
and recovery.
 (6) Provide minimum standards for collection of waste
and solid waste and for disposal or recovery
thereof.
 (7) Provide for technologically and economically
feasible resource recovery by and through the
franchisee(s).

SECTION 07.01.040  DEFINITIONS

 (1) General Definitions.  In this Division, words used
in the present tense include the future, the
singular number includes the plural, the word
"shall" and "will" are mandatory and not
directory, where the masculine appears it shall
include the feminine, and the term "this Division"
will include amendments hereinafter adopted and
made to this Division.

ARTICLE VII - Page 2
 (2) Specific Definitions.  As used in this Division,
unless the context requires otherwise:
  (a) "Advisory Committee" means the Solid Waste
Advisory Committee whose members are
appointed by the Coos County Board of
Commissioners pursuant to a resolution of the
Board.
  (b) "Board" means the Board of Commissioners of
Coos County.
  (c) "Collection Vehicle" means any vehicle used
to collect or transport waste or solid waste.
  (d) "Collector" means a person authorized by Coos
County, local governmental units or state
agencies to collect, transfer or transport
waste and solid waste within Coos County.
  (e) "Combustible Waste" means all waste or solid
waste capable of incineration  or burning.
  (f) "Compensation" means type of consideration
paid for service including but not limited to
direct or indirect compensation by tenants,
licensees or similar person.
  (g) "Compost Pile" means a location bordered and
confined by earth, metal, wood or other solid
materials that is used for the controlled
storage and decomposition of vegetable
materials for use as a fertilizing agent in
agricultural or garden sites.
  (h) "County" means Coos County, Oregon.
  (i) "County Disposal Site" means a waste or solid
waste disposal site, of any kind, owned,
leased to, or operated by the County.
  (j) "Demolition and Construction Waste" means
bulky, nonputrescible materials consisting
of, but not limited to, nonsalvaged building
demolition materials and land clearing
debris.
  (k) "Dispose" or "Disposal" means accumulation,
storage, collection, transportation, disposal
of or resource recovery from wastes or solid
wastes.
  (l) "Disposal Site" means land and facilities
used for the disposal, handling or transfer
of or resource recovery from solid wastes,
including but not limited to dumps,
landfills, resource recovery facilities,
incinerators for solid waste or waste
delivered by persons hauling their own solid
wastes or for solid waste collection service,
and composting plants; but the term does not
include a facility subject to the permit
requirements of ORS 468.740, a landfill site
which is used by the owner or person in
control of the premises to dispose of soil,
rock, concrete or other similar
nondecomposable material, unless the site is

ARTICLE VII - Page 3
used by the public either directly or through
a solid waste collection service, or a site
licensed pursuant to ORS Chapter 822.
  (m) "Franchise" means a franchise to operate a
waste or solid waste disposal site or
resource recovery facility or collection
service, including collection, transfer and
transport, issued by the Board pursuant to
this Division.
  (n) "Hazardous Waste or Solid Waste" means waste
or solid waste that is dedicated by ORS
Chapter 459 or regulations of the
Environmental Quality Commission thereunder
or by the Board pursuant to Section 05.01.070
to be hazardous.
  (o) "Incinerator" means any combustion device
specifically designed for the reduction, by
burning, of solid, semi- solid or liquid
wastes.
  (p) "Industrial Waste" means waste or solid waste
resulting from any process of industry or
manufacturing or from the development or
recovery of any natural resources.
  (q) "Landfill" means a disposal site operated by
means of compacting and covering waste or
solid waste at specifically designated
intervals but not necessarily each operating
day.
  (r) "Person" means any individual, firm,
association, sole proprietorship,
partnership, non- profit corporation,
corporation, joint stock company,
cooperative, joint venture or other private
legal entity or any public agency or a
municipal corporation.
  (s) "Putrescible Material" means any organic
material that can decompose and may give rise
to four- smelling or offensive odors or
products.
  (t) "Regulations" means regulations adopted
pursuant to this Division and promulgated by
the Board by resolution or order, unless
otherwise specified herein.
  (u) "Resource Recovery" means the process of
obtaining useful material or energy resources
from solid waste and includes:
   (A) "Energy recovery" means recovery in
which all or a part of the solid waste
materials are processed to utilize the
heat content, or other forms of energy,
of or from the material.
   (B) "Material recovery" which means any
process of obtaining from solid waste,
by presegregation or otherwise,
materials which still have useful

ARTICLE VII - Page 4
physical or chemical properties after
serving a specific purpose and can,
therefore, be reused or recycled for the
same or other purpose.
   (C) "Recycling" which means any process by
which solid waste materials are
transformed into new products in such a
manner that the original products may
lose their identities.
   (D) "Reuse" which means the return of a
commodity into the economic stream for
use in the same line of application as
before without change in its identity.
  (v) "Rules" means rules promulgated by state
agencies pursuant to Oregon Revised Statutes,
as amended.
  (w) "Salvage, Removal or Recycling Operations"
means the practice of retrieving reclaimable
materials including but not limited to paper,
metal, bottles, rags and other waste objects
for the purpose of resale, recycling or
reuse.
  (x) "Sanitary Landfill" means a disposal site
regulated by the Environmental Quality
Commission and operated by means of
compacting and covering wastes or solid
wastes, at least once each operating day.
  (y) "Service" means the collection, storage,
transportation, disposal of or resource
recovery from waste and solid wastes.
  (z) "Service Area" means the geographical area in
which the operation of a waste or solid waste
disposal site, resource recovery facility or
collection or transfer service, made pursuant
to this Division, can be economically, safely
and effectively provided by a person.
  (aa) "Solid Waste" means all putrescible and
nonputrescible wastes, including but not
limited to garbage, rubbish, refuse, ashes,
waste paper and cardboard; commercial,
demolition and construction wastes, discarded
or abandoned vehicles or parts thereof;
discarded home and industrial appliances;
manure, vegetable or animal solid and semi-
solid wastes, dead animals and other wastes,
but the term does not include:
   (A) Hazardous wastes.
   (B) Materials used for fertilizer or for
other productive purposes or which are
salvageable as such materials are used
on land in agricultural operations and
the growing or harvesting of crops and
the raising of fowls or animals or the
practice of silviculture.
  (bb) "Waste" means material that is no longer

ARTICLE VII - Page 5
useable by or that is no longer wanted by the
source of the material, which material is to
be disposed of or be resource recovered by
another person.  However, the term "waste"
shall not include any material which is the
subject of a sales transaction by the source
of the material for actual monetary
consideration and involving materials for
which a recognized market exists and which
requires or involves no processing prior to
such sale by the source.  A payment of merely
nominal consideration to the source of
material shall not exempt such material from
the definition of the term "waste" if in fact
the true consideration is merely the
collection, transportation, disposal or
recovery of the waste material.

SECTION 07.01.050  ADMINISTRATION

The Board of Commissioners shall be responsible for the
administration and enforcement of this Division and may
delegate the authority for the administration and enforcement
of this Division to a person or persons.  In order to carry
out the duties imposed by this Division, the Board or its
designee(s) shall have the authority to administer oaths,
certify to all official acts, subpoena and require the
attendance of witnesses at public hearings before the Board;
require the production of relevant documents at public
hearings; swear witnesses; take testimony of any person by
deposition; enter, or authorize personnel to enter, upon the
premises of any person regulated by this Division to
determine compliance with this Division and the regulations
promulgated by the Board pursuant thereto.

SECTION 07.01.060  SOLID WASTE ADVISORY COMMITTEE

 (1) There is hereby created a nine member Solid Waste
Advisory Committee, hereinafter called the
"Advisory Committee", consisting of:
  (a) Two persons holding solid waste collection,
transport, disposal site or resource recovery
facility franchises in the incorporated or
unincorporated territory of Coos County or an
employee or designee of such a franchise
holder.
  (b) Three citizens of Coos County, one of which
shall be a representative of the recycling
industry and one who is not  served by any
collection franchise.
  (c) Two persons representing the Cities of Coos
Bay and North Bend.
  (d) Two persons representing the Cities of

ARTICLE VII - Page 6
Coquille, Myrtle Point, Bandon, Lakeside and
Powers.
  (e) The Coos County Health Officer and/or
designee and the Coos County Solid Waste
Director shall be ex- officio members of the
Advisory Committee but shall serve only an
advisory role and shall have no voting rights
regarding the business of the Advisory
Committee.
 (2) Members of the Advisory Committee shall be
appointed by the Board with staggered terms as
determined by the Board.  The Board shall seek the
input of the franchise holders, City Councils and
the public prior to making the appointments.
 (3) Appointment to the Advisory Committee.  Members of
the Advisory Committee shall be appointed by the
Board for a term of three (3) years and shall
serve until their successors are appointed and
qualified; provided that in the first instance the
terms of the initial members shall be staggered
for one (1), two (2) and three (3) years.
Vacancies shall be filed by the Board for the
unexpired term.
 (4) Meeting of Advisory Committee.  The Advisory
Committee shall meet at such time as deemed
necessary or as called by the Board.  The Chair or
a majority of the members of the Advisory
Committee shall have the power to call meetings.
 (5) Duties of the Advisory Committee.  The Advisory
Committee shall advise the Board on the
interpretation, enforcement or amendment of this
Division and any franchise issued hereunder.
Additionally, the Advisory Committee shall advise
the Board generally on the matter of collection,
transfer, disposal, recycling or resource recovery
of solid waste.
 (6) Regional Solid Waste Advisory Committee.  If
agreement is reached with one or more cities or
counties pursuant to the terms of this Division
for regional franchising for the collection,
disposal or resource recovery of waste or solid
waste, the Board may appoint one or more members
of the Advisory Committee to serve on a Regional
Committee established by such agreement to advise
the Boards of City Councils in the affected
counties or cities.

SECTION 07.01.070  REGULATIONS

 (1) The Board may promulgate reasonable regulations
pertaining to such requirements as may be
necessary from time to time to protect the public
health, safety and welfare, to meet the rules of
the Oregon State Environmental Quality Commission

ARTICLE VII - Page 7
or the United States Environmental Protection
Agency and to effect the efficient administration
of this Division.
 (2) The regulations may concern collection, transfer,
storage, accumulation, disposal, recycling and
resource recovery of wastes and solid wastes,
including, but not limited to, the following:
  (a) Accumulation, storage, collection, transfer,
disposal of or resource recovery from wastes
or solid wastes to prevent;
   (A) vector production and nuisance;
   (B) conditions for transmission of disease
to people or animals;
   (C) air pollution by dust, fumes, gas,
smoke, odors or particulate matter or
any combination thereof;
   (D) pollution of surface or underground
waters; or
   (E) hazards to service or disposal workers
or to the public.
  (b) Disposal site, with respect to adaptability
of the site to the population served,
topography and geology of the area,
protection of ground and surface water, air
pollution, accessibility, longevity, resource
recovery, ultimate site use, standards of
design, management and operation, regulation
and limitation of resource recovery and
protection of adjacent or nearby residents.
  (c) Safe handling or management of hazardous
wastes, solid wastes and wastes.
  (d) Such other regulations deemed necessary by
the Board to carry out the purpose of this
Division and to protect public health, safety
and welfare.
  (e) Disposal of recovery of industrial wastes at
County or franchised sites.
 (3) Regulations adopted by the Board pursuant to this
Division shall become a part of the terms of each
franchise.  If necessary to meet an emergency, the
regulations will become effective upon their
adoption at a Board meeting called for such
purpose provided that all members of the Board
present concur in the declaration of the
emergency.  Otherwise, such regulations shall be
considered by the Board at a meeting, and notice
of consideration and possible adoption of the
regulations shall be given by mail to all
franchisees that may be affected by the proposed
regulations at least twenty (20) days prior to the
time the regulations are to be considered.
Additionally, the topic of the proposed
regulations or a copy of the regulations, if
prepared, will be posted on the bulletin board at
the Courthouse in Coquille, and the Coos County

ARTICLE VII - Page 8
Annex in North Bend, not less than ten (10) days
prior to the meeting to consider the regulations.
 Except in cases of emergency any regulations so
adopted will be effective not less than ten (10)
days after their adoption, and the resolution or
order adopting the regulations shall be posted at
any affected disposal site or resource recovery
facility not less than five (5) judicial days
after adoption.  Removal of the regulations by
vandalism or other cause shall not delay or
invalidate the regulations.
 (4) No regulations shall be adopted pursuant to this
section which would have the effect of hindering
fair and honest competition or placing
unreasonable restraints on commerce.  Any person
who believes that this Division or a regulation
adopted pursuant to this Division has such an
effect may present a protest to the Coos County
Board of Commissioners.  The Coos County Board of
Commissioners shall then promptly review the
protest and conduct an administrative review for
the purpose of determining whether the regulation
may be in violation of any anti- trust laws.  The
purpose of this procedure is to provide a prompt
and expeditious resolution of any alleged anti-
trust violations.

SECTION 07.01.080  EXCEPTIONS TO ORDINANCE REGULATIONS

 (1) Except as otherwise specifically provided herein,
this Division shall not apply:
  (a) Within the incorporated limits of any city
except as may be agreed to by the city and
the county pursuant to Section 07.01.150.
  (b) As to terms and rates to be charged for
collection service, to the federal
government, any state or municipal
government, including Coos County, or any
agency thereof; nor to those who contract
with the federal or state government or any
agency thereof.  This exemption shall not
apply to disposal on the disposal site owned
or operated by the County or by a franchise
issued under this Division.
  (c) To recycling or resource recovery rights of
the collector granted by Coos County which
are in effect within forty- five (45) days of
the adoption of this Division, and any
renewal thereof; provided, however, that such
salvage and resource recovery rights shall be
limited to the salvage and recovery without
restriction to weight or volume, of the
following materials:
   (A) cardboard;

ARTICLE VII - Page 9
   (B) ferrous metals;
   (C) automobile bodies;
   (D) white goods;
   (E) glass; and
   (F) such other wastes or solid wastes as
agreed upon between the collector and
the disposal site operator.
  (d) To solid waste recycling operations of
nonprofit public service organizations and
nonprofit community based recycling centers
in existence thirty (30) days prior to the
date of adoption of this Division, provided
that an application is made within one
hundred twenty (120) days of the date of
adoption of this Division and the applicant
has established to the satisfaction of the
Board, that the operation:
   (A) Was in existence thirty (30) days prior
to the adoption of Solid Waste Ordinance
No. 1, adopted August 28, 1974;
   (B) Is in existence as of the date of the
application; and
   (C) Does not constitute a nuisance or hazard
to the public; and
   (D) Is satisfactorily serving the public
need and interest in disposing or
recycling of solid waste.
  (e) to all recycling or resale of materials by
organizations, businesses, or private persons
provided that they involve the following
materials:
   (A) Reconditionable household furnishings
and appliances, or
   (B) Personal effects such as clothing, tools
and sporting goods.
   and the operation does not constitute a
nuisance or hazard to the public and is
satisfactorily serving the public need and
interest in disposing or recycling of such
materials.
  (f) to reuse or beverage containers or operations
incident thereto under that portion of ORS
Chapter 459, commonly referred to as the
"bottle bill".
  (g) to establishment or operation of an
industrial solid waste disposal site under a
permit by the Oregon Department of
Environmental Quality and in compliance with
that permit and all applicable statues, rules
and regulations of other governmental units
having jurisdiction and provided further that
the Board may direct that all or part of such
waste be delivered to a disposal site
operated by the County or franchisee for
disposal or recovery.

ARTICLE VII - Page 10
SECTION 07.01.090  PROHIBITIONS

 (1) In areas defined by the Board to be franchised for
solid waste collection, transfer or
transportation, no person shall store, collect,
transfer, or transport any waste or solid waste
for compensation unless such person is franchised
pursuant to the terms of this Division.
 (2) Except as herein provided, no person may create or
maintain a waste or solid waste disposal site.
Any site licensed or permitted to operate by
written license or permit from the Environmental
Quality Commission (EQC), State of Oregon, may
continue such operation until such permit or
license is revoked or has expired, provided that
the operator apply for a disposal franchise
pursuant to the terms of this Division within
thirty (30) days after the effective date of this
Division.
 (3) Except as provided herein, no person shall
collect, transport or transfer solid waste or
waste for compensation without a franchise, unless
such operation was carried on by such person on
the effective date of this Division and the person
providing that service applies for franchise
within thirty (30) days after the effective date
of this Division.  Such person may continue
operating within the area served on the effective
date until final determination is made on a
franchise for that service area.
 (4) Except as herein provided, no land or facility
shall be used within the County as a waste or a
solid waste disposal site or operation without
having first been duly authorized by the Board.
 (5) Nothing in this section shall require a collector
to remove any material, the storage, collection or
transportation of which is prohibited by
governmental agency order or regulation or which
is hazardous to the collector or the collector's
employees or which could be reasonably expected to
cause damage to collection equipment or cause a
hazard or nuisance to the public.
 (6) No person shall intentionally deposit at the
disposal site any material or substance which is
not defined as solid waste by the terms of this
Division unless permitted or authorized by the
Board, in the case of County disposal sites, or
the franchisee.
 (7) Nothing in this section shall prohibit the storage
of vegetable material in a compost pile for use in
agricultural or residential purposes so long as
the compost pile is not unsightly, produces no
offensive odors, and does not create health
hazard; and providing that the compost pile exists
on land owned or occupied by the maker and user

ARTICLE VII - Page 11
thereof.
 (8) Nothing in this section shall prohibit an
individual from transporting and disposing of
waste or solid waste generated by the person on
the person's own property, or property rented or
leased to or by that person, so long as such
transportation and disposal does not result in a
health hazard, create a nuisance, be unsightly or
violate the rules of the Environmental Quality
Commission.
 (9) No person shall transport or carry refuse in or on
a motor vehicle or trailer upon a public road
within the jurisdiction of Coos County unless such
refuse is:
  (a) completely covered on the sides, top and
bottom thereof and such cover is either a
part of or securely fastened to the body of
such motor vehicle or trailer; or
  (b) such refuse itself is securely tied to the
body of such motor or trailer; or otherwise
contained in the body of the motor vehicle or
trailer in such a way so that no piece,
article or part of such refuse is likely to
sift, leak or otherwise escape therefrom.

SECTION 07.01.100  TRANSPORTING WASTE AND SOLID WASTE

Any person, firm, corporation or entity of any kind
transporting waste and solid waste for any purpose, whether
public or private, must secure the waste or solid waste in
such a manner that no waste or solid waste shall escape from
the container in the vehicle in which it is transported, no
health hazards occur as a result of such transportation and
unpleasant odors and unsightly conditions are minimized.

SECTION 07.01.110  SOLID WASTE ACCUMULATION PROHIBITED

 (1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, it
shall be unlawful for any person to store,
deposit, maintain or display on private property,
wastes or solid wastes that:
  (a) are hazardous to the health or safety of the
public; or
  (b) create offensive odors; or
  (c) create a condition of unsightliness; or
  (d) create a fire hazard.
  Storage, collection, maintenance or display of
wastes or solid wastes in violation of this
subsection shall be considered a public nuisance
which may be abated pursuant to Section 07.01.430.
[94-03-004L]
 (2) This section shall not apply to:
  (a) Areas within the limits of incorporated

ARTICLE VII - Page 12
cities, unless an agreement is duly entered
into and executed between Coos County and the
city, pursuant to ORS 190.003 through
190.250.
  (b) Disposal sites franchised pursuant to the
provisions of this Division, provided that
such disposal sites comply with this
Division, and all rules and regulations
adopted pursuant thereto.
  (c) Agricultural operations and the growing or
harvesting of crops and the raising of fowl
or animals, or other agricultural practice or
silviculture where:
   (A) The accumulation of waste or solid waste
is a necessary agricultural operation;
   (B) The accumulation of waste or solid waste
is conducted in such a manner as to
create no fire, health or safety hazard
to the public; and
   (C) The accumulation of waste or solid waste
is performed in conformance with the
regulations enacted pursuant to this
Division.

SECTION 07.01.115  ABANDONED VEHICLES WITHIN URBAN
 GROWTH AREAS
[Adopted Section 115 of Article
Seven, Division One on April 20,
1994]

 (1) No person shall store, or permit to be stored,
more than two abandoned vehicles on any property
located within an urban growth area designated by
the Coos County Comprehensive Plan, unless such
storage is authorized by the Coos County Zoning
and Land Development Ordinance.
 (2) As used in this section, "abandoned vehicle" means
motor vehicle that is inoperable, and/or incapable
of being licensed under the Oregon Vehicle Code,
and stored outside of an enclosed garage or
building.  As used in this section, "abandoned
vehicle" includes vehicle parts.

SECTION 07.01.120  SALVAGE, REMOVAL OR RECYCLING
     OPERATIONS

 (1) Except as otherwise permitted in Section
07.01.080, salvage, removal or recycling
operations in the unincorporated areas of Coos
County shall be conducted only with the written
authorization of the Board.  The Board may adopt
such regulations as are deemed necessary to
protect public health, safety and welfare and that

ARTICLE VII - Page 13
carry out the purposes of this Division.
 (2) The Board may revoke authorization for salvage,
removal or recycling operations when it finds that
the operator
  (a) has failed to follow the applicable
provisions of state law, this Division, the
rules of the Environmental Quality Commission
or Environmental Protection Agency, or the
regulations adopted under this Division; or
  (b) is operating in such a manner so as to
constitute a nuisance or a hazard to the
public; or
  (c) has ceased operation for a continuous period
exceeding ninety (90) days, or is not
carrying out service under this Division and
applicable federal, state and local laws,
rules and regulations and where the cessation
of operation has not been the result of
strikes of acts of God.
 (3) Revocation of authorization to conduct a salvage,
removal or recycling operation will be pursuant to
Section 07.01.380
 (4) No person shall recover solid waste from a County
disposal site unless permitted to do so by
contract with Coos County.

SECTION 07.01.130  GRANTING FRANCHISE

 (1) Separate franchises shall be issued for separate
service areas.  Separate franchises may be issued
for collection, including collection, transfer and
  transport, a disposal site or a resource recovery
   facility.
 (2) Where the Board finds that a person is providing
adequate collection service to a service area on
the effective date of this Division and is
qualified to provide the service under the terms
of this Division, the Board shall grant a
collection franchise to such person; provided,
however, if there are two or more persons
providing service in the service area:
  (a) The qualified collector using proper
collection vehicles and having a majority of
service customers on the effective date of
this Division shall be granted the franchise.
  (b) (A) The person granted a franchise under
Subsection 2(a) of this Section shall
compensate the owner of other service or
services rejected for the franchise at
the fair market value of such business
for customers served on the effective
date of this Division and upon mutually
agreeable terms and conditions.
   (B) Nothing in this paragraph shall create

ARTICLE VII - Page 14
any liability on the part of the County,
the Board or any agent or employee of
either for any compensation of any kind
whatsoever under this subsection.  Nor
shall the County or any of its agents or
employees be responsible for resolving
disputes concerning the terms and
conditions of compensation between the
collector granted a franchise and the
owner of other service or services
rejected for the franchise.
  (c) Subsection 2(a) and 2(b) of this Section do
not apply to drop box or roll off box
franchises.  Where the Board finds that two
collectors with overlapping service have
agreed to resolve the conflict by taking the
service area and the other the franchise for
existing customers and the Board further
finds that such agreement conforms to the
purposes stated in Section 07.01.030 and the
standards stated in Section 07.01.160, it
shall approve the agreement and issue
appropriate franchises.

SECTION 07.01.140  FRANCHISING ADJACENT TO CITIES

Where collection service is not being provided on the
effective date of this Division or the collector does not
qualify for a franchise or the franchise has been revoked
under Section 07.01.380, the County may grant a franchise for
garbage and rubbish collection in a service area adjacent to
the city to a person who is licensed or franchised by the
city.

SECTION 07.01.150  JOINT OR REGIONAL FRANCHISING

The Board may enter into an agreement with any city, county
or public agency for joint or regional franchising of
collection, transfer, disposal or resource recovery services
or sites and provide, by regulation, for matters pertaining
to the modification and termination of franchises.

SECTION 07.01.160  ALLOCATION OF SERVICE AREAS

 (1) A franchise to provide collection of waste or
solid waste in a portion of the County outside a
city shall be granted only after a determination
of need for the service.  If one person has been
franchised to provide a particular type of
collection, another person shall not be franchised
to provide the same service in the same area,
except as otherwise provided by this Division.

ARTICLE VII - Page 15
 (2) The determination of need is the responsibility of
the Board which shall seek to gain the best
balance of the following objectives:
  (a) To provide the most effective service at the
least cost;
  (b) To avoid duplication of service routes that
will cause inefficiency or excessive use of
fuel;
  (c) To provide service in areas of marginal
return;
  (d) To improve the franchisee's likelihood of
making a reasonable profit and thereby
encouraging investment in modern equipment;
  (e) To cooperate with cities by recognizing their
service arrangements; and
  (f) To otherwise provide for the service in a
manner appropriate to the public interest.

SECTION 07.01.170  APPLICATION AND FRANCHISE
     REQUIREMENTS

 (1) An application for a franchise shall be under oath
on a form provided by the Board.  A nonrefundable
fee, as determined by the Board pursuant to
Article Nine, Division One of the Coos County
Code, for processing the application is required
and must accompany the application.  In addition
to information required on the form, the Board or
its designee may require the filing of any
additional information deemed necessary to insure
compliance with this Division.  An application for
a collection, transfer, or transport franchise
shall state the types of service to be provided
and shall supply information required to determine
compliance with the applicable section of this
Division.  Where a DEQ permit is required, an
applicant for a disposal or resource recovery
franchise shall file the required permit
application with DEQ and furnish the County with a
copy of the application.
  [91-06-007L]
 (2) General Requirements for Collection, Transfer,
Disposal or Resource Recovery Franchises.  The
applicant must show to the satisfaction of the
Board that the applicant:
  (a) Has available equipment, facilities and
personnel to meet the standards established
by this Division, applicable state and
federal laws, and local, state and federal
rules and regulations.
  (b) Has good moral character, or if the applicant
is not a natural person, that the principle
partners, owners, shareholders or officers
are of good moral character.  In determining

ARTICLE VII - Page 16
whether the applicant is of good moral
character, the Board may consider evidence of
conviction of crimes involving injury to
persons or property, or crimes involving
fraud or deception.
  (c) Has sufficient personnel experienced in the
operation of the service to be franchised,
considering the type, duration, volume of
waste or solid waste, weather conditions, and
methods of operation to assure ability to
comply with Chapter 459 Oregon Revised
Statutes (ORS), the rules of the
Environmental Quality Commission, applicable
federal laws and regulations, the terms of
this Division and the regulations of the
Board of Commissioners.
  (d) Has, as a condition of this franchise,
submitted within ten (10) days after the
grant of the franchise by the Board, but
before issuance of the franchise, cash or a
corporate surety bond, in the amount of five
thousand ($5,000.00) dollars.
  (e) In cases of emergency declared by the Board
and concurred in by all members present and
voting, where the public interest probably
would suffer material injury by delay or
other cause, the Board may extend the time
for submission of the corporate surety bond
for an additional period not to exceed thirty
(30) days and issue a temporary franchise on
presentation of a certificate of insurability
by the franchisee.
   (A) The corporate surety bond provided for
in this subsection shall be issued by a
company authorized and licensed to do
business as a surety in the State of
Oregon.
   (B) If, during the term of the franchise,
the surety corporation be insolvent, or
revoke or otherwise cancel the surety
obligation, the applicant, as a
condition for the continuation of this
franchise, must submit cash or a new
corporate surety bond in the same amount
as originally procured upon the grant of
the franchise or an amount equal to the
gross receipts actually accrued by the
franchisee for the prior year, which
ever is greater.  Such new corporate
surety bond must be submitted to, and
approved by the Board within thirty (30)
days of such insolvency, revocation or
cancellation of surety.  Such new
corporate surety bond shall fulfill all
the conditions of the original surety

ARTICLE VII - Page 17
obligation provided for by this
Division.
   (C) Said corporate surety bond shall be
approved by the Board and shall
guarantee the full and faithful
performance of the franchisee for the
term of the franchise, and shall
specifically include:
    (1) Payment for all wages, materials
and supplies and insurance premiums
necessary to fulfill the provisions
of this Division and rules and
regulations;
    (2) Workers' compensation premiums;
    (3) A provision that the franchisee,
the franchisee's agents and
servants, shall fully and
faithfully comply with all the
terms, conditions, provisions and
requirements contained in this
Division and rules and regulations;
and
    (4) that the franchisee shall hold Coos
County harmless from any expense
incurred through the failure of the
franchisee, the franchisee's agents
and servants to operate and
maintain a service as required by
this Division and rules and
regulations, and shall provide for
the payment of insurance premiums
sufficient to insure the County for
any loss which would subject the
County to liability arising out of
the operation of the service
including any expense to which Coos
County may be put to correct any
condition or violation of this
Division, rules or regulations, by
Coos County's own labor and
equipment, whenever the Board
determines, after notice and public
hearing, that it is necessary to
correct any condition in violation
of this Division or for any damages
arising out of the negligence of
the franchisee, the franchisee's
agents or servants.
   (D) Said corporate surety bond shall be in
full force and effect for the term of
the franchise;
  (f) Has sufficient financial ability to meet the
obligations imposed by this Division, rules
and regulations in the disposal of any and
all waste and solid waste proposed to be

ARTICLE VII - Page 18
disposed of by the applicant for the term of
this franchise.  The person applying for a
franchise pursuant to this Division shall
submit to such financial investigation deemed
necessary by the Board to determine the
financial ability of the applicant.  Upon
application for franchise and during the term
of franchise and two (2) years thereafter,
the Board may investigate, as a condition of
the continued enjoyment of the franchise, any
financial aspect of the applicant relevant to
the franchised business and may also demand
copies of any annual report, articles of
incorporation, evidence of net worth or any
other relevant financial data.  Such
information is confidential and shall be
returned to the franchisee on completion of
investigation.
  (g) Has obtained any and all necessary permits
from state and federal regulatory agencies
(e.g. Department of Environmental Quality)
prior to operation.
  (h) Intends and is able to comply with Sections
07.01.330 and 07.01.340.
 (3) The bond required by Subsection 2(b) of this
Section may be waived:
  (a) For a disposal franchise, if the applicant
has demonstrated its capability to dispose of
all waste or solid waste proposed to be
disposed of by the applicant; or
  (b) For a collection franchise, if the applicant
has demonstrated by contract, franchise,
permit or other evidence sufficient to the
Board its capacity to provide for the
disposal of all waste and solid waste
collected by the applicant in the service
area for which the applicant has applied; and
  (c) In either case, met all other requirements of
this Section.
 (4) If the applicant is providing service on the
effective date of this Division, and has filed an
application within thirty (30) days thereafter,
the applicant may continue service until the final
decision regarding the application is made by the
Board.
 (5) During the application process, and at any time
should a franchise be granted, any cumulative
change in excess of ten (10) percent of ownership
thereof, must be reported to the Board within
thirty (30) days of such change of ownership.

SECTION 07.01.180  DETERMINATION OF RATES

 (1) The Board may approve and establish existing rates

ARTICLE VII - Page 19
filed by applicants for franchises if it finds
that such rates are not demonstratively
unreasonable and are not substantially higher than
those charged generally in the County or other
areas under similar service requirements and for
the same or similar quality of service or it may
establish a different rate schedule.  In
determining whether rates are reasonable under
this subsection, the Board shall give due
consideration to the rate guidelines established
by this section.
 (2) The Board may establish uniform rates throughout
the County, or may establish uniform rates within
zones based upon the length of haul or other
factors which may, in the option of the Board,
justify establishment of rate differentials.
 (3) When establishing rates for disposal sites, in
addition to other factors specified in this
section, the Board shall consider the type of
site, the cost of operation of such site, whether
or not the site is open to the public, the type of
waste to be disposed of and cost of compliance
with federal, state and local laws and regulations
together with such other factors which may in the
opinion of the Board affect the rates to be
charged.  The Board may establish uniform rates
for all disposal sites or may establish different
rates based upon the factors specified in this
section.
 (4) Increases or decreases in rates approved under
this section shall not be made by the Board unless
the Board finds that the increase or decrease is
based upon a change in the cost of doing business
or change in the type or quality of service
available or proposed.
 (5) In determination of rates or proposed rate
charges, the Board shall give due consideration
to:  the investment in facilities and equipment;
the services of management; local wage scales; the
concentration of customers in the area serviced;
methods of storage, collection, transportation,
disposal or resource recovery; the length of haul
to disposal facilities; the cost of disposal; a
reasonable return to the owners of the business;
projected revenues and expenses; the future
service demands of the area or site which must be
anticipated in equipment, facilities, personnel or
land; extra charges for special pickups or pickups
on days where service is not normally provided on
a route; extra charges where the type or character
of waste or solid waste, including not limited to
wastes with peculiarly offensive odors, requires
special handling or service and extra charges for
providing janitorial services on the premises
where service is provided.

ARTICLE VII - Page 20
 (6) The Board may require an investigation by the
Advisory Committee of any proposed rate or rate
increase or decrease.  For the purpose of making
this investigation, the Advisory Committee, in
cooperation with the Board of Commissioners or its
designee, is authorized to hold public hearings
and to take and receive testimony relevant to the
considerations to be made by the Board in
establishing a rate or in allowing or denying the
rate increases or decreases under this Division.
Upon completion of its investigation, the Advisory
Committee shall make a report of the public
hearing and shall make recommendations to the
Board regarding the proposed rate.
 (7) In establishing rates or in considering rate
increases or decreases, the Board must find that
the rates will be just, fair, reasonable and
sufficient to provide proper service to the
public.  The Board may consider the rates charged
by other persons performing the same or similar
service in the same or other areas.
 (8) Where no rate has been established for a
particular type of service, the Board may
establish an interim rate until the Board makes a
final determination on the rate for that type of
service.  In establishing such a rate, the Board
shall give due consideration to all of the factors
established as guidelines for the Advisory
Committee and Board in this section.

SECTION 07.01.190  ISSUANCE OF FRANCHISES

 (1) All applications for franchises shall be reviewed
by the Solid Waste Director, the Health
Department, the Planning Department, County
Counsel and any other officer or County department
designated by the Board.  Each officer or
department shall make an investigation as within
the interest of the department and report back to
the Board of Commissioners within thirty (30)
working days of receiving the application. [94-03-
004L]
 (2) Public Hearing.  Upon the filing of an
application, the Board shall fix a time and place
for a hearing thereon.  Notice of the hearing
shall be given to the franchise applicant, current
franchisee (if any) and all persons who have made
application for a franchise under this Division
for the particular area or site to be franchised
at least twenty (20) days prior to the hearing.
 (3) Due notice shall also be given to the general
public by posting notice of the hearing on the
bulletin board at the Coos County Courthouse and
the Coos County Annex in North Bend not less than

ARTICLE VII - Page 21
twelve (12) days prior to the hearing.
Additionally, notice will be given by two (2)
insertions in a newspaper of general circulation
with the County, not more than eleven (11) nor
less than four (4) days prior to the date of the
proposed hearing.  Any interested person may
appear and be heard orally or by a written
memorandum in support of or opposition to the
issuance of a particular franchise or permit or
recycling or reuse authorization.
 (4) Upon the basis of the application, evidence
submitted and results of any investigation, the
Board shall make specific findings of fact on the
following:
  (a) qualifications of the applicant in light of
the Division, statutes, rules and
regulations;
  (b) the service, equipment and facilities that
are provided by the applicant; and
  (c) conditions of service that should be imposed,
including but not limited to frequency of
collection and location of collection.
 (5) On the basis of its findings, the Board shall
grant, deny or modify the application by written
order.  The order shall include specific findings
of fact, and the Board may attach whatever
conditions to the grant of franchise it finds
necessary to meet the purposes of this Division
and to protect public health, safety and welfare.
 (6) The franchisee shall, unless otherwise specified
by the Board, provide all labor, tools, services
and equipment necessary for the conduct of the
franchise.
 (7) The franchisee shall commence operations on the
date specified by the Board in the order.
 (8) No oral representation by any member of the Board
or Advisory Committee shall have any effect
whatsoever.  All terms, conditions and other
matters of the franchise shall be in writing and
shall be made pursuant to a meeting of the Board.
 (9) If the Board finds that the need for public
services justifies action before a complete
investigation and final determination can be made,
it may issue a temporary certificate, valid for a
stated period not to exceed six (6) months,
entitling a person to operate a disposal site or
resource recovery facility or both within a
defined service area.
 (10) If a request for reconsideration is filed with the
Board pursuant to Section 07.01.210, the franchise
granted shall be temporary only, pending a final
determination under Section 07.01.210.

SECTION 07.01.200  ACCEPTANCE OF FRANCHISE

ARTICLE VII - Page 22

The franchise applicant shall be allowed thirty (30) days
after notice of the grant of a franchise to accept the terms
and conditions of the franchise pursuant to this Division.
The failure of the prospective franchisee to file an
unconditional written acceptance of this grant of franchise
shall be deemed by the County to be a rejection of the
franchise and the rights and privileges granted by the
franchise shall absolutely cease unless the period of time
for acceptance shall be extended by the Board.  Such an
extension shall be for not more than thirty (30) days.

SECTION 07.01.210  APPEAL FROM ADVERSE DECISIONS OF
THE  BOARD REGARDING AWARD OF
FRANCHISES OR ESTABLISHMENT OF
RATES

 (1) If the order of the Board is adverse to an
applicant in any respect, the applicant may
request reconsideration by filing with the Board a
written request for hearing within ten (10) days
after the date of said order.
 (2) Upon the filing of such request for
reconsideration, the Board shall set a time and
place for public hearing upon its order, which
hearing shall not be more than thirty (30) days
from the date of the request for hearing.  Notice
of the hearing shall be given to the applicant by
mail, not less than twenty (20) days before the
date that is set for hearing.  Notice of the
hearing shall also be posted on the bulletin board
at the Courthouse in Coquille and the Coos County
Annex in North Bend.  The applicant or franchisee
may submit relevant evidence to the Board upon the
Board's order.  Other interested persons or
affected public agencies or private parties may
offer oral or written testimony.  The Board may,
following the public hearing, affirm, modify or
rescind its prior order.

SECTION 07.01.220  TERM OF FRANCHISE

A franchise granted under this Division for collection,
transfer, transportation or disposal shall be for a period of
ten (10) years and shall be considered a continuing
franchise.  On January 1st of each year, the franchise is,
upon payment of the renewal fee specified in Section
07.01.240 below, renewed for an additional ten (10) year term
unless, at least thirty (30) days prior to January 1st of
that year, one party notifies the other in writing of intent
to terminate the franchise.  Upon the filing of such notice
of termination, the franchisee shall have a franchise
terminating on December 31 of the eleventh (11) year

ARTICLE VII - Page 23
following the date of notice of termination.  The parties may
later extend the term of, or reinstate, the franchise,
conditioning renewal upon mutual agreement.  Nothing in this
section restricts the Board of Commissioners from suspending,
modifying or revoking the franchise for cause as provided in
this Ordinance.  Failure to pay the franchise renewal fee by
January 1st of each year shall constitute cause for which the
franchise may be immediately terminated.  However, the Board
of Commissioners, in their sole discretion, may provide a ten
(10) day notice and opportunity to pay the renewal fee prior
to terminating a franchise for non- payment of said fee.  A
franchise granted under this Division for a disposal site or
resource recovery facility shall be for a term determined by
the Board upon the basis of public need, the purposes of this
Division, financing requirements, site or facility longevity
and other factors as determined by the Board.  Nothing in
this section shall permit the continued operation of a
transfer, disposal or resource recovery facility which
requires a Department of Environmental Quality permit beyond
the term of such currently valid permit or any renewal
thereof by the Department of Environmental Quality.  [93-02-
002L]

SECTION 07.01.230  TEMPORARY EXCLUSIVE AND JOINT
SERVICE UNDER FRANCHISE

If the Board finds that an applicant for a franchise cannot
provide service to a single customer. a group or type of
customer, or for a particular type or unusually large
quantity of solid waste, the Board may issue a franchise for
joint service with another person who can provide that
service and may attach such conditions in the grant as are
necessary for the protection of public health, safety and
welfare; provided, however, that in all cases where the Board
finds that the applicant is able to provide adequate service
within a defined service area, it may issue an exclusive
franchise for that are to a single applicant.

SECTION 07.01.240  FRANCHISE FEES

The Board shall collect:
 (1) A fee as determined by the Board pursuant to
Article Nine, Division One of the Coos County
Code, for any collection, transfer or disposal
site franchise.  [91-06-007L]
 (2) The fees above shall be in addition to any rent
that may be due on any property owned by the
County and leased to a disposal site franchisee.
 (3) The provisions of Subsection (1) and (2) of this
Section will apply each time there is a transfer
or renewal of a franchise.

SECTION 07.01.250  USE OF FRANCHISE FEES

ARTICLE VII - Page 24

Fees collected pursuant to Sections 07.01.170 and 07.01.240
of this Division shall be paid into the Waste Disposal Fund
of the County.  Funds so collected may be used to offset the
costs of administering this Division.  [99-10-007L]

SECTION 07.01.260  ENFORCEMENT OF FRANCHISE PROVISIONS

The Board of Commissioners or its designee shall, upon
reasonable cause, make an investigation to determine if
sufficient reason and cause to suspend, modify, revoke or
refuse to renew a franchise as provided by this Division
exists.  If there is sufficient evidence to constitute a
violation of this Division, state or federal laws, or rules
or regulations, the Board of Commissioners, on its own motion
or on notification from the Board's designee or the Solid
Waste Advisory Committee, shall proceed under Section
07.01.390.

SECTION 07.01.270  CANCELLATION OF FRANCHISE BY
   FRANCHISEE

 (1) The franchisee shall have the option to cancel and
terminate this franchise during the franchise term
or any renewal period upon sixty (60) days notice,
subject to the "continuance of service" provisions
of this Division, if any of the following
conditions occur:
  (a) Destruction of the franchisee's equipment or
premises so as to render it impossible to
continue service.
  (b) In a disposal franchise, the premises or a
portion of the premises is taken by the
exercise of power of eminent domain or sold
in lieu of the exercise of such authority so
as to render the operation of the facility
uneconomical, impractical or impossible.
  (c) The service becomes subject to new or
different governmental regulations which
render the operation of the facility
uneconomical, impractical or impossible.
 (2) In considering one of the above reasons for
termination of the franchise, the termination will
only be effective after a hearing by the Board and
upon written request by the franchisee.  Notice of
the hearing will be provided by two (2)
publications in a newspaper of general circulation
not more than eleven (11) nor less than four (4)
days prior to the hearing, along with posting at
the Coos County Courthouse in Coquille and the
Coos County Annex in North Bend and upon written
notice posted not less than five (5) days prior to
the

ARTICLE VII - Page 25
  date of the hearing to the Department of
  Environmental Quality (DEQ).
 (3) After the hearing, the Board may grant or deny the
request.  An appeal from the Board's decision may
be taken by the franchisee by writ of review,
which appeal procedure is exclusive.
 (4) Nothing in this Division shall require any person
to provide service where a court or governmental
agency having jurisdiction has ordered the
curtailment or termination of such service whether
for a limited time or permanently and during the
duration of such order.

SECTION 07.01.280  CANCELLATION OF A DISPOSAL
FRANCHISE  BY COUNTY

 (1) Any disposal franchise granted to a private
operator to operate a County owned disposal site
may be canceled at the option of the County upon
sixty (60) days notice to the franchisee if any of
the following conditions should occur:
  (a) Should the franchisee's equipment or premises
be destroyed so as to render it impossible to
continue service.
  (b) If the County, pursuant to its own motion or
pursuant to the lawful order or regulation of
any court or agency having jurisdiction there
over, should issue new rules or regulations
which render the operation of the facility
impractical, impossible or uneconomical.
  (c) If the County should, on its own motion,
wholly or partially divert County disposal
services from landfill or sanitary landfill
to incinerator, energy recovery, or such
other activities as the Board determines are
not compatible with the landfill or sanitary
landfill operation.

SECTION 07.01.290  PREVENTING INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE

 (1) The franchisee shall agree, and it is a condition
of obtaining and holding the franchise, that
whenever the Board finds that failure of service
for any reason, including but not limited to acts
of God or work stoppages, whether or not through
the fault of the franchisee, would result in the
creation of a health hazard or public or private
nuisance, the Board shall, after reasonable
notice, but not less than twenty- four (24) hours
notice to the franchisee, or after a public
hearing, if the franchisee requests a hearing
within twenty-four (24) after receipt of notice,
have the right to authorize another franchisee or

ARTICLE VII - Page 26
person or Coos County to provide service or use
and operate the land, facilities and equipment of
the franchisee through leasing or otherwise in the
event of serious interruption of service to all or
a class or group of customers for so long as such
interruption continues.
 (2) If the Board orders that another person or Coos
County provide service or use or operate the land,
facilities or equipment of the franchisee pursuant
to Subsection (1) of this Section, the franchisee
shall be liable for any expense, in excess of
service receipts, incurred by such persons
pursuant to said order and Coos County shall be
entitled to any and all service receipts that may
reasonably be apportioned to the time the County
or other person operates the service.  The County
may collect the service receipts from the user or
the franchisee.

SECTION 07.01.300  TRANSFER OF FRANCHISES

 (1) A franchisee may transfer the franchise or any
rights incidental thereto, or portion thereof, to
other persons only upon written notice to, and
approval by, the Board.
 (2) The Board shall approve the transfer if it finds
the transferee meets all applicable requirements
as if the transferee were an applicant for a
franchise.  The Board shall approve or disapprove
any application for transfer of a franchise within
a reasonable time.
 (3) The Board may permit the franchise to be pledged
as security for purchase of land, equipment or
facilities needed to provide service or to finance
purchase of a business providing service under
this Division.
 (4) The new franchisee will be responsible for fees
assessed in Section 07.01.240.
 (5) The Board may attach whatever conditions it deems
appropriate to guarantee maintenance of service.

SECTION 07.01.310  RATE PREFERENCE PROHIBITED

 (1) No franchisee subject to rate regulation under
this Division shall give any rate preference to
any person, type of service or locality for the
collection, transfer, disposal or resource
recovery of any type of solid waste or waste.
 (2) Nothing in this section is intended to prevent:
  (a) The reasonable establishment of uniform
classes of rates based upon length of haul,
type of solid waste stored, collected,
transported or disposed of or the number,

ARTICLE VII - Page 27
type and location of customers served or upon
other factors as long as such rates are
reasonably based upon costs of the particular
service and are approved by the Board in the
same manner as other rates.
  (b) Any person from volunteering service at
reduced cost for a charitable, community,
civic or benevolent purpose.
  (c) Reduced collection rates for fixed or low
income persons as a class.

SECTION 07.01.320  DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
     (DEQ) PERMITS

It will be the responsibility of the franchisee to determine
and know whether permits from the Department of Environmental
Quality (DEQ) or the Environmental Protection Agency are
required for the franchisee's operation, whether it be for
transfer, collection or disposal of waste and solid waste,
and it will be the franchisee's responsibility to maintain,
during this franchise, whatever permit may be required for
the franchisee's operation and the franchisee shall comply
with all rules and regulations of the Department of
Environmental Quality (DEQ) and the Environmental Protection
Agency as presently existing or as may be adopted or amended
relating to the operation of the franchisee's service.

SECTION 07.01.330  LIABILITY INSURANCE

The franchisee, not at County expense, shall, during the term
of the franchise, maintain comprehensive general liability
insurance to the full extent of liability limitations set
forth in ORS 30.270 and any amendments thereof.  The County
shall be named as co-insured.  Prior to the commencement of
operations, the County shall receive proof of insurance and
it shall be a condition of such insurance that said insurance
will not be terminated without thirty (30) days prior written
notice to the Board and the insured.  Cancellation of
insurance, without immediate replacement insurance with no
loss or lapse of coverage, shall be cause for immediate
termination of the franchise without recourse.

SECTION 07.01.340  INDEMNITY

The franchisee shall indemnify and hold the County harmless
from and against all claims and demands for loss or damage
arising out of or in connection with the service provided by
the franchisee or by any other person claiming by, through or
under the franchisee, including any accident or fire or any
nuisance made or suffered.

ARTICLE VII - Page 28

SECTION 07.01.350 SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS FOR COLLECTION,
TRANSFER AND TRANSPORT FRANCHISES

The holder of a franchise for collection or transfer:
 (1) Shall not voluntarily discontinue service in any
area covered by the franchise without giving at
least ninety (90) days written notice of the
proposed discontinuance of service to the Board
and to any customer regularly utilizing the
service.  No discontinuance of service to any area
or portion thereof shall be made without written
approval by the Board prior to the discontinuance
during the term of the franchise.  This subsection
shall not apply to any order of foreclosure or
restriction of use by any public agency, public
body or court having jurisdiction.  Nor shall this
subsection prohibit a franchisee from refusing to
provide service to a customer if the customer
refuses to pay for the service or for other
reasons that may be established by the Board by
regulation, provided that in no event shall the
holder of a franchise terminate such service
without seven (7) days prior written notice to the
customer of the intention to terminate service.  A
franchisee who has discontinued service on the
basis of a customer's refusal to pay for such
service may demand that the customer pay in
advance or make a reasonable deposit to guarantee
payment for future services before reinstating
such service.
 (2) Shall provide required service, equipment and
facilities, but not less than service, equipment
and facilities commensurate with existing service
provided within the service area defined in the
franchise, within one (1) month from the date of
issuance of the franchise unless the Board extends
the time upon showing of reasonable grounds by the
applicant.  Where an area is not receiving service
on the date of the application for a franchise
covering such area, the Board may order that
service be provided at such time as it finds to be
reasonable.
 (3) May contract with another person to provide
service within a service area after giving written
notice to and obtaining approval of the Board of
Commissioners or its designee.  The Board shall
approve the contract unless it finds that the
quality or extent of service would be jeopardized.
 (4) May refuse service to a customer upon reasonable
grounds where:
  (a) Service of the particular location would
jeopardize the safety of the driver, the
collection vehicle or the motoring public;
  (b) The customer has not provided reasonable

ARTICLE VII - Page 29
access, without hazard or risk to the person
providing service, to the pickup point for
the container storing solid waste;
  (c) Where weather conditions, blocked road access
or similar conditions prevent service to a
particular customer; or
  (d) In any case where service may be prohibited
by safety rule or regulation of a federal,
state or local agency.
 (5) Shall empty containers with garbage at least once
every seven (7) days, or once every fourteen (14)
days if included in the collector's franchise;
excepting as in Subsection (4) of this Section or
where an act of God prevents such collection.
 (6) Shall maintain a bill paying station within the
County or a city therein, provide a telephone
service or answering service so that the business
may be reached by the public on weekdays,
excepting holidays during the period from 8:00
a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
 (7) Shall, unless exempted, load and use a vehicle for
collection in a manner that will prevent any
escape of waste or solid waste while in transit.
 (8) Shall respond to a request for service in the
service area within a reasonable time and shall
charge uniformly in the service area.
 (9) Shall agree in the franchise to transport all
collected waste and solid waste to a site, not the
usual designated disposal site, upon order of the
Board of Commissioners when:
  (a) Necessary to comply with rules, regulations,
or an order of a federal or state
administrative agency;
  (b) Necessary to comply with an order from a
court of competent jurisdiction;
  (c) The Board determines that the usual
designated disposal site is not suitable or
lacks sufficient capacity or other resources
to process the type or quantity of waste
generated by a significant construction,
deconstruction, remediation, or other
project. The order shall specify such terms
and conditions of transport and disposal,
including applicable franchise or other fees,
as the Board finds reasonably necessary to
protect the public health, safety, and
welfare; or
  (d) An emergency condition declared by the Board
with all members present concurring where the
emergency is the result of:
   (A) Closure of the disposal site by order of
the County Health Officer or other
local, state or federal official having
power to close the site to all users; or
   (B) Damage to the site caused by man-made or

ARTICLE VII - Page 30
natural action resulting in closure to
all users. [15-03-001L]

SECTION 07.01.360  SPECIFIC REGULATIONS TO DISPOSAL
     FRANCHISEES

The holder of a disposal franchise:
 (1) Shall not voluntarily discontinue service without
giving at least ninety (90) days written notice of
the proposed discontinuance of service to the
Board and to any franchisee using the disposal
site and further receiving the written approval of
the Board prior to discontinuing said service.
This paragraph shall not apply to any order for
closure or restriction of use by any public
agency, public body or court having jurisdiction.
 (2) May contract with another person to operate the
disposal site after giving written notice to and
obtaining the written approval of the Board or its
designee.  The Board shall approve the contract
unless it finds that the quality or extent of
service would be jeopardized.  In making its
determination, the Board shall consult the Coos
County Health Department.
 (3) May refuse disposal service to any customer if the
customer refuses to pay for the service.  A
franchisee who has discontinued service for
refusal of a customer to pay for such service may
demand that the customer provide a reasonable
deposit or advance payment to guarantee payment
for future service prior to reinstating such
service.
 (4) Shall agree to terminate or suspend the franchise
without penalty or cost to the County or any other
person should the rules or regulations of a
federal or state administrative agency or court of
competent jurisdiction order the County or the
franchisee to cease operation temporarily or
permanently.

SECTION 07.01.370  INSPECTION FOR COMPLIANCE

The facilities of the franchisee shall be available for
inspection by the County or its designee at reasonable times
to determine whether the franchisee has complied and is
complying with the provisions of this Division.

SECTION 07.01.380  SUSPENSION, MODIFICATION,
REVOCATION OR REFUSAL TO RENEW A
FRANCHISE

 (1) A franchise issued pursuant to this Division shall

ARTICLE VII - Page 31
be subject to suspension, modification, revocation
or refusal to renew by the Board in accordance
with the procedures contained herein for any of
the following reasons:
  (a) Violation of any or all terms and conditions
of this Division or any applicable local,
state or federal laws or regulations;
  (b) Materially misrepresenting facts or
information given in the application for the
franchise; or
  (c) Willfully refusing to provide adequate
service as required by this Division.
 (2) Except in cases where the Board, and all of its
members present, deems an emergency to exist
requiring an immediate suspension, modification,
revocation or refusal to renew a franchise, the
Board shall provide franchisee with thirty (30)
days written notice of an alleged violation of the
terms and conditions of this Division.  The
franchisee will have this thirty (30) day period
to correct the identified violation to the
satisfaction of the Board.
 (3) If the franchisee, after notice and opportunity to
comply, does not correct the identified violation,
the Board may, upon recommendation of the Advisory
Committee or upon its own motion, initiate
proceedings to suspend, modify, revoke or refuse
to renew the franchise.
 (4) To initiate proceedings, the Board shall:
  (a) File the charges which are the basis for such
action with the County Clerk setting forth
with reasonable certainty the nature of such
charges against the franchisee;
  (b) Fix a time and place for hearing the charges;
and
  (c) Serve upon the franchisee and all other known
interested parties, a copy of the charges as
filed together with notice of time and place
of the hearing at least ten (10) days prior
to the date fixed for the hearing.
 (5) In the case of immediate suspension, modification,
revocation or refusal to renew, the Board shall:
  (a) File with the County Clerk its order,
including a statement of the charges set
forth with reasonable certainty;
  (b) Fix a time and place for a public hearing
thereon within thirty (30) days of the date
of the order; and
  (c) Serve upon the franchisee and all other known
interested parties a copy of the order as
filed with notice of time and place of the
hearing at least ten (10) days prior to the
date fixed for hearing.
  The Board may, following the hearing, affirm,
amend or rescind its prior order and shall do so

ARTICLE VII - Page 32
within thirty (30) days of the public hearing.
 (6) At any hearing authorized by this section, the
franchisee shall have the right to appear and to
defend against the charges and, if the franchisee
so desires, to be represented by counsel.  The
franchisee and other interested persons or
affected public agencies or public bodies may
submit oral or written evidence to the Board
relevant to the charges or an emergency order
adopted by the Board.  Subject to writ or review
proceedings, the determination of the Board be
final.
 (7) If, at the hearing, the Board suspends, modifies,
revokes or refuses to renew the franchise permit,
the action shall not become effective until thirty
(30) days after the date of the order; except that
where the Board finds, and all members present
concur, there is a serious immediate danger to the
public health, welfare and convenience, the order
will be effective immediately.  In the case of a
hearing on an order of the Board pursuant to
Subsection (2) or (5) of this Section, the Board
may affirm, rescind or amend its prior order and
shall do so within thirty (30) days of the
hearing.  The order shall be effective as of the
date stated herein.
 (8) In lieu of immediate suspension, modification,
revocation or refusal to renew a franchise
pursuant to Subsection (2) or (5) of this Section,
the Board may order compliance and make the
suspension, modification, revocation or refusal to
renew contingent upon compliance with the order of
the Board within the time period stated therein.
No public hearing shall be set until the stated
time period for correction of the alleged
violation has elapsed.
 (9) Any notice required by this section shall be
served either by personal delivery to the affected
franchisee or to some person of suitable age of
discretion at the place of business of the
franchisee; or, if no person can be found at any
such place of business, then by leaving such
notice of hearing in a conspicuous place on the
business premises and mailing a copy thereof to
the franchisee at the address set forth in the
franchise application or to any other address
known to the Board to be more probable to provide
actual notice of the franchisee.

SECTION 07.01.390  DISPOSAL OF WASTE AT COUNTY
     FACILITIES

 (1) The County may issue a franchise, pursuant to the
terms of this Division and this section for the

ARTICLE VII - Page 33
operation of County disposal sites.  The Board may
operate disposal sites and disposal site services.
 (2) In addition to the rules of the Environmental
Quality Commission (EQC) and the terms of this
Division, the Board may adopt regulations relating
to waste and solid waste disposal at County sites
including regulations relating to the disposal of
certain types of solid waste, commercial solid
waste equipment standards, private solid waste
equipment standards and fees for type and quantity
of waste and solid waste deposited.  If necessary
to meet an emergency, the regulations will become
effective upon their adoption at a Board meeting
called for such purpose provided that all members
of the Board present concur in the declaration of
the emergency.  Otherwise, such regulations shall
be considered by the Board at a meeting, and
notice of consideration and possible adoption of
the regulations shall be given by mail to all
franchisees affected by the proposed regulations
at least twenty (20) days prior to the time the
regulations are to be considered.  Additionally,
the topic of the proposed regulations or a copy of
the regulations, if prepared, will be posted on
the bulletin board at the Coos County Courthouse
in Coquille and the Coos County Annex in North
Bend not less than ten (10) days prior to the
meeting to consider the regulations.  Except in
cases of emergency, any regulations so adopted
shall be effective not less than ten (10) days
after their adoption, and the resolution or order
adopting the regulations shall state the effective
date.  A copy of the regulations shall be posted
at any affected disposal site not less than five
(5) judicial days after adoption.  Removal of the
regulations by vandalism or other cause shall not
delay or invalidate the regulations.
 (3) The operation by the County of a disposal site or
service shall conform to the rules of the
Environmental Quality Commission (EQC) and such
orders or regulations as may be made by the Board
that specifically relate to the County operated
services and sites.

SECTION 07.01.400  PROHIBITION - COUNTY DISPOSAL SITES

 (1) Unless changed or modified by action of the Board
pursuant to the procedures established in Section
07.01.070 or by ordinance amendment, it shall be
unlawful to deposit the following at any County
disposal site:
  (a) Explosives or explosive devices;
  (b) Human waste, except disposable diapers, and
including septic tank contents, travel

ARTICLE VII - Page 34
vehicle holding tanks and any container
containing such waste;
  (c) Animal manure;
  (d) Burning materials including burning barrels
that have not been extinguished;
  (e) Any waste declared "hazardous waste" by the
Environmental Quality Commission (EQC) except
that such waste may be deposited at disposal
sites designated by the Board to receive such
waste pursuant to the regulations and rules
of the Environmental Quality Commission (EQC)
and after written permission for such dumping
is given by the Board of Commissioners or its
designee;
  (f) Any waste or solid waste prohibited by rule
or permit of the Environmental Quality
Commission (EQC) or any other federal, state
or local agency having the power to issue
such rules or regulations, or any waste or
solid waste prohibited by regulations of the
Board;
  (g) Tree trunks and stumps;
  (h) Dead animals, except those delivered for
disposal by the Coos County Animal Shelter;
  (i) Any industrial waste prohibited by
regulations adopted by the Board: or
  (j) Fish waste or waste materials from fish
processing.
 (2) All persons utilizing a County disposal site for
the disposal of solid waste shall separate and
distribute the solid waste within the County
disposal site as directed by the County attendant
at the site.
 (3) No person shall place any abandoned or wrecked
automobile or any part thereof at any county
disposal site except in areas and in a manner
designated by the county for that purpose.

 (4) No person shall dismantle at a county disposal
site any wrecked or abandoned automobile or any
part thereof except that the wheels of such
vehicles may be removed following placement of the
vehicle in the designated area, except the county
may by contract authorize the dismantling of
automobiles at county disposal sites.

SECTION 07.01.410  INCONSISTENT ORDINANCES OR EXERCISE
OF LEGISLATIVE POWER BY OTHER
PUBLIC AGENCIES

The franchisee shall agree, and it is a condition of each
franchise, that Coos County is in no way responsible for the
legislative or ordinance making power of other public
agencies which may regulate, terminate or in any way prohibit

ARTICLE VII - Page 35
the franchise and that Coos County shall not be liable by an
act condemning or taking property by any governmental body
other than Coos County, or any interference with the
franchise by any public agency other than Coos County.

SECTION 07.01.420  CONFORMITY WITH THE LAW

This Division shall in no way be a substitute for, nor
eliminate in any way, the necessity for conformance with any
and all laws or rules of the State of Oregon or its agencies,
or the federal government or any of its agencies, nor any
ordinances or rules or regulations of Coos County.
SECTION 07.01.430  ABATEMENT

 (1) (a) The accumulation, storage, collection,
transportation or disposal of solid wastes or
wastes by any person in violation of this
Division or regulations promulgated hereunder
is a nuisance and the Board through the
County Counsel or District Attorney may, in
addition to other remedies provided by law,
institute injunction, mandamus, abatement or
other appropriate legal proceedings to
temporarily or permanently enjoin or abate
such storage, accumulation, collection,
transportation or disposal.
  (b) The provisions of this section are in
addition to and not in lieu of any criminal
prosecution or penalties as provided by this
Division and state law.
 (2) To determine whether there is reasonable cause to
believe that a public nuisance exists on private
property outside the limits of any city, the
Board, or whoever it designates, may conduct an
investigation for that purpose.  In conducting
such an investigation, the Board, or whoever it
designates, may administer oaths, subpoena the
production of relevant documents, and take the
testimony of any person.
 (3) Whenever it appears there is reasonable cause to
believe a public nuisance exists, the Board may
order that a notice be issued and served upon the
owner, tenant, occupant or person in possession of
the premises where the nuisance is alleged or
claimed to exist, requiring such person to appear
before the Board at the time and place stated in
the notice to show cause why a nuisance should not
be declared to be existing on the premises.
 (4) At the time and place described in said notice,
the Board shall conduct a public hearing on the
question of the existence of the alleged nuisance,
and if the Board finds that a nuisance exists, it
shall declare the existence of a nuisance by order
entered in its journal, and may order a suit to be

ARTICLE VII - Page 36
brought in the name of the County to institute
injunction, abatement or any other proceeding
provided by law to prevent temporarily or
permanently the existence of the nuisance.

SECTION 07.01.440  RESERVED

SECTION 07.01.450  RESTRAINING ORDERS

Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Division,
and in addition to all other authority granted to and
inherent in the Board, the Board is hereby authorized to make
and issue temporary restraining orders enjoining the alleged
violation of any of the terms of this Division or franchises
or regulations issued pursuant thereto, which order shall be
directed to the alleged violator to immediately cease and
desist from any act or acts described in said order until the
Board determines whether or not a violation has occurred.
Before issuing a temporary restraining order, the Board must
have reasonable grounds to believe that the violation has
occurred.  In no event shall the Board make or issue such an
order without having first received a written complaint
containing allegations of a violation of this Division.  The
complaint shall specify the alleged violation in short and
concise language sufficient to appraise the alleged violator
of the act or acts to be enjoined.  The order shall direct
the alleged violator to appear at a time and place stated in
said order and show cause, if any there be, why the alleged
violator should not be immediately enjoined from doing the
act or acts specified in the order.  If the Board determines
that the alleged violator has committed a violation of this
Division, the Board may make and enter an order permanently
enjoining further violations.

ARTICLE VII - Page 37
DIVISION TWO - PROTECTED RESOURCE ACTIVITY
   [Adopted as Division Two of Article Seven on
April 21, 1993]

SECTION 07.02.010  SHORT TITLE

This Division shall be known as "Protected Resource Activity
Ordinance" and shall be so cited and pled.

SECTION 07.02.020  PURPOSE

It is the purpose of this Division to protect resource based
industries of this county in order to ensure continued
prosperity, health and safety in the county.  Continued
urbanization gives rise to conflicts between resource
activities and nonresource uses because resource activities
often offend, annoy, interfere with or otherwise affect
nonresource uses located on resource lands or near resource
users.  This county has concluded that persons who locate in
a resource area, along a resource area access, or near an
existing resource use must accept the conditions commonly
associated with living in that particular setting.  This
Division is intended to protect, preserve and provide for the
continuance of resource activities in the county.  Sections
07.02.040 and 07.02.050 of this Division are intended to
limit or restrict the availability of findings of nuisance
and trespass, and complaint procedures, rights of action and
claims for relief over which this county has jurisdiction
where they would otherwise either have an adverse impact on
resource activities which this county seeks to protect or
they would limit full utilization of the resource base within
the county.

SECTION 07.02.030  DEFINITIONS

 (1) "Facility" means any personal property or real
property, including any appurtenances thereto and
any fixtures thereon, associated with a given use
or activity.
 (2) "Farming practice" means cultivating, growing,
harvesting, processing, or selling plants or
animals of any kind, which may be lawfully grown,
possessed or sold including, but not limited to,
fish, poultry, grapes, Christmas trees, livestock,
cranberries, dairy products and nursery stock.
 (3) "Forest practice" has the meaning given the term
in ORS 527.620.
 (4) "Nonresource use" means any facility, activity or
land use that is not a resource activity
including, but not limited to, any residential use
or dwelling.

ARTICLE VII - Page 38
 (5) "Protected resource activity" means any current or
future generally accepted aggregate mining,
farming, ranching or forest practice or facility
that is conducted in compliance with applicable
county land use ordinances and:
  (a) Is conducted in compliance with applicable
federal or state rules and regulations; or
  (b) Is reasonably expected to occur or exist in a
truly rural setting and is important to past,
present or future operation of an aggregate
mining activity, farming practice or forest
practice that is conducted to obtain
financial benefit.
 (6) "Generally accepted" practices may need to be
clarified.  The Coos County Commissioners may, as
it deems necessary, establish resource user peer
review boards consisting of five (5) persons who
reguarly are involved in a resource use within the
County, three of whom regularly are involved in
the same type of resource use in question, to
advise the County as to generally accepted
practices or facilities with respect to that use.
 (7) The term "protected resource activity" does not
include:
  (a) The growing of infested, infected or diseased
crops, poultry or livestock.
  (b) The physical condition of facilities that
endanger public health or safety.
  (c) A trespass that involves an actual physical
invasion of the property of another by a
person or by the person's animals.
 (8) In order to be a "protected resource activity", an
aggregate mining activity must be conducted
pursuant to a program to implement Goal 5.

SECTION 07.02.040  PROTECTION OUTSIDE URBAN GROWTH
     BOUNDARY

 (1) No protected resource activity occurring outside
an urban growth boundary shall be declared to be a
public or private nuisance or trespass or give
rise to any county complaint procedure, right of
action or claim for relief in favor of or to
protect the interests of nonresource uses or any
persons or property associated therewith.
 (2) This section applies regardless of the location of
the nonresource use.
 (3) This section applies regardless of whether the
nonresource use existed prior to the occurrence of
the protected resource activity.
 (4) This section applies regardless of whether the
protected resource activity or the nonresource use
has undergone any change or interruption.

ARTICLE VII - Page 39
SECTION 07.02.050  PROTECTION INSIDE URBAN GROWTH
     BOUNDARY

 (1) No protected resource activity occurring inside an
urban growth boundary shall be declared or held to
be a public or private nuisance or trespass or
give rise to any county complaint procedure, right
of action or claim for relief in favor of or to
protect the interests of nonresource uses or any
persons or property associated therewith.
 (2) This section applies regardless of the location of
the nonresource use.
 (3) This section applies only where the protected
resource activity in question predated the
conflicting nonresource use.
 (4) This section applies only where the protected
resource activity in question has not
significantly increased in size or intensity from
the effective date of this Division or the date on
which the applicable urban growth boundary is
changed to include the subject protected resource
activity within its limits, whichever is later.

SECTION 07.02.060  CHANGE IN URBAN GROWTH BOUNDARY

If an urban growth boundary is changed in such a way as to
place the protected resource activity either inside or
outside its limits, then Section 07.02.040 of this Division
applies to any conflict between the protected resource
activity and nonresource uses.

SECTION 07.02.070  LAND USE DECISIONS

The fact that this County's comprehensive plan, zoning
ordinances or land use decisions allow the siting,
development or support of any particular use does not in any
way affect the provisions or the protection afforded a given
protected resource activity under this Division.

ARTICLE VII - Page 40
DIVISION THREE - JEFFERSON BEHAVIORAL HEALTH
     [Adopted as Division Three of Article VII
          on May 28, 1997]

SECTION 07.03.010  RATIFICATION OF FORMATION

The Coos County Board of Commissioners hereby ratifies the
formation of an intergovernmental entity pursuant to the
terms of ORS Chapter 190.  The newly formed entity is to be
called Jefferson Behavioral Health.  It is the intention of
the Coos County Board of Commissioners to enter into an
intergovernmental agreement with Curry, Douglas, Jackson,
Josephine and Klamath Counties which will provide for the
formation of the Jefferson Behavioral Health and set out the
duties, powers, and functions of the entity.

SECTION 07.03.020  EFFECTIVE DATE

The effective date of the intergovernmental agreement for
formation of Jefferson Behavioral Health is June 15, 1997.

SECTION 07.03.030  PUBLIC PURPOSE

The public purposes for which the intergovernmental entity is
formed are as follows:
 (1) To create an intergovernmental entity that will
administer and provide mental health services on
behalf of the parties to the agreement.
 (2) To provide and promote accessibility to mental
health benefits and continuity of care for all
consumers through comprehensive community mental
health programs.
 (3) To preserve the integrity of community mental
health programs while obtaining the economic
benefits of cooperation among counties, the Mental
Health and Developmental Disabilities Services
Division of the Oregon Department of Human
Resources ("Division"), and the Office of Medical
Assistance Programs of the Oregon Department of
Human Resources ("OMAP").
 (4) To connect the Oregon Health Plan and community
mental health programs in a manner that gives full
force and effect to ORS 414.705 to 414.750 and ORS
430.610 to 430.685.
 (5) To administer regional Medicaid funds in ways that
preserve and enhance local management and
operation of community mental programs.
 (6) To coordinate and integrate mental health services
with physical health care services in the Service
Area which is defined as the geographical area of
the participating counties.

ARTICLE VII - Page 41
 (7) To promote accountability, continuity, and
efficiency in the use, allocation, and investment
of public funds for mental health services.
 (8) To provide a regional management information
system for planning and developing mental health
services in the Service Area.
 (9) To promote the involvement of county
commissioners, local mental health advisory
committees, consumers, and advocates in
development and delivery of mental health
services.

SECTION 07.03.040  POWERS, DUTIES, AND FUNCTIONS

Jefferson Behavioral Health shall have as its function the
duty and power to do the following things:
 (1) The provision and administration of mental health
services together with ancillary services,
including labor, goods personal services, and
incidentals ("Services") within the Service Area.
 Each party to the intergovernmental agreement
forming Jefferson Behavioral Health, reserves
exclusive control over these Services provided by
its community health program within its county
boundary other than Oregon Health Plan Services.
However, Jefferson Behavioral Health may provide
such Services pursuant to an agreement with a
particular party.
 (2) The power to enter into and administer the Oregon
Health Plan Service Agreement, other contracts and
subcontracts for Services, and employment
contracts.
 (3) Performance of any functions and activities that
any party to the intergovernmental agreement
forming Jefferson Behavioral Health has the
authority to perform with respect to the provision
for Services.
 (4) Performance of all lawful acts that are necessary
to fulfill the purposes set out above.

ARTICLE VII - Page 42
DIVISION FOUR - PUBLIC HEALTH INSPECTIONS; DELEGATION FROM
   THE STATE HEALTH DIVISION [Adopted as Division
   Four of Article VII on August 28, 1997]

SECTION 07.04.010  RULES OF PROCEDURE

The Rules of Procedure provided in the Administrative
Procedures Act, ORS Ch. 183, are hereby adopted and approved
for use in all hearings pursuant to the following Delegations
of Authority, Responsibilities and Functions by the State
Health Division.

SECTION 07.04.020  TOURIST FACILITIES

Coos County hereby adopts ORS Ch. 446, together with
subsequent amendments, as it relates to the delegation of
responsibilities of the Assistant Director for Health
regarding Tourist Facilities, pursuant to ORS 446.425.

SECTION 07.04.030  SWIMMING POOLS AND SPAS

Coos County hereby adopts ORS Ch. 448, together with
subsequent amendments, as it relates to the delegation of
responsibilities of the Assistant Director for Health
regarding Swimming Facilities, pursuant to ORS 448.100 with
the exception of plan review duties for swimming pools and
spas.

SECTION 07.04.040  FOOD SERVICE FACILITIES

Coos County hereby adopts ORS Ch. 624, together with
subsequent amendments, as it relates to the delegation of
responsibilities of the Assistant Director for Health
regarding Restaurants and Bed & Breakfast Facilities,
pursuant to ORS 624.510.

SECTION 07.04.050  OREGON ADMINISTRATIVE RULES

Coos County hereby adopts OAR 333-12-050, 333-12-055, 333-12-
060, 333-12-065, together with subsequent amendments, as it
relates to the delegation of responsibilities of the
Assistant Director for Health as described in this division.

SECTION 07.04.060  EFFECTIVE DATE OF DELEGATION

The delegation of duties as described in this division shall
be effective on the date as mutually agreed by the State and
County or such other date as determined by the Coos County
Board of Commissioners.

ARTICLE VII - Page 43

SECTION 07.04.070  ENFORCEMENT

Any state laws or administrative rules and any county
ordinance or county rules relating to public health
inspections and the delegation of authority to Coos County,
including but not limited to this division and any rules
adopted by the County pursuant to this division, shall be
enforceable through the provisions of Article Eleven,
Division One of the Coos County Code and/or by any applicable
enforcement provisions provided by state law or
administrative rule.

ARTICLE VII - Page 44
DIVISION FIVE – ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
     [Adopted as Division Five of Article
     Seven on July 26, 2004]

SECTION 07.05.010   PURPOSE

The purpose of this Division is to provide for the abatement
of dangerous buildings, as defined herein, and will herein
be referred to as “this Division”.

SECTION 07.05.020  FINDINGS

The Board of Commissioners finds that:
(1) This Division will provide a just, equitable and
practicable method whereby buildings or
structures, as defined herein, endanger the life,
limb, health, property, safety or welfare of the
general public, or their occupants, may be
required to be repaired, secured, vacated, or
demolished.
 (2)  The purpose of this Division is not to create or
 otherwise establish or designate any particular
class or group of persons who will or should be
especially protected or benefited.
(3) Coos County can only provide such assistance
   with such an ordinance in place.
(4) This Division would promote the public health,
safety and welfare in Coos County, and is a matter
of local concern.
(5)  The provisions of this Division shall apply to all
dangerous buildings, as herein defined, which are
now in existence or which may hereafter become
dangerous in this jurisdiction.

SECTION 07.05.030  AUTHORITY OF COUNTY

This Division is adopted under the authority granted to
counties under ORS 203.035, which provides that a county may
exercise authority within the county over matters of county
concern to the fullest extent allowed by Constitutions and
laws of the United States and this state, as fully as if each
particular power comprised in that general authority were
specifically listed in ORS 203.030 to 203.075.

SECTION 07.05.040  DEFINITIONS

For the purpose of this Division, certain terms, phrases,
words, and their derivatives shall be construed as specified
in either this Section or as specified in the Building Code,
or the Housing Code.  Where terms are not defined, they
shall have their ordinary accepted meanings within the
context with which they are used.  Webster’s Third New
International Dictionary of the English Language,
unabridged, shall be construed as providing ordinary
acceptable meanings.  Words used in the masculine gender

ARTICLE VII - Page 45
include the feminine.
(1) “Authorized Representative” shall include health
officer, fire marshal, any state building
inspectors, the building official and their
authorized inspection personnel.
(2) “Building Official” means the person designated by
the County Board of Commissioners under Coos
County Code Section 11.01.100 to enforce this
Division.
(3)  “Building Code” means the Building Code adopted by
the State of Oregon under ORS Chapter 455.
(4) “Dangerous Building” means a building or structure
as defined in Section 07.05.060 of this Division.
A building or structure used for or accessory to a
protected resource activity is not a “dangerous
building” for purposes of this Division.
(5) “Housing Code” means the Housing Code adopted by
the State of Oregon in ORS Chapter 455.
(6) “Protected Resource Activity” means a generally
accepted aggregate mining, farming, ranching or
forest practice or facility that is conducted in
compliance with applicable county land use
ordinances and Division Two, Article Seven of the
Coos County Code.

SECTION 07.05.050  APPLICATION

The building official is authorized to enforce the
provisions of this Division. All buildings or structures,
which are required to be repaired under the provisions of
this Division shall be subject to the Oregon State Building
Code under ORS Chapter 455. The building official shall have
the power to render interpretations of this Division in
order to clarify the application of its provisions.  Such
interpretations shall be in conformity with the intent and
purpose of this Division. This Division shall not apply to a
building or structure used for, or accessory to, a protected
resource activity.
(1) The building official or authorized representative
may make such inspections and take such actions as
may be required to enforce the provisions of this
Division.
(2) When it is necessary to make an inspection to
enforce the provisions of this Division, or when
the building official or the building official’s
authorized representative has reason to believe
that there exists in a building or upon a premises
a condition which is contrary to or in violation
of this Division which makes the building or
premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the
building official or representative may enter the
building or premises at reasonable times to
inspect or to perform the duties imposed by this
Division, provided that if such building or
premises is occupied that credentials be presented

ARTICLE VII - Page 46
to the occupant and entry requested.  If such
building or premises is unoccupied, the building
official or representative shall first make a
reasonable effort to locate the owner or other
person having charge or control of the building or
premises and request entry. If entry is refused,
the building official or representative shall have
recourse to the remedies provided by Oregon Law to
secure entry.
(3)  All buildings or portions thereof which are
determined after inspection by the building
official or authorized representative to be
dangerous as defined in this Division are hereby
declared to be public nuisances and shall be
abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or
removal in accordance with the procedures
specified in Section 07.05.090 of this Division,
and through the provisions of Article Eleven,
Division One of the Coos County Code.
(4) It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to erect, construct, enlarge, alter,
repair, move, improve, remove, convert or
demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain any
building or structure or cause or permit the same
to be done in violation of this Division.
(5) All buildings or structures within the scope of
this Division and all construction or work for
which a permit is required shall be subject to all
inspections, rules and regulations of the State
Building Code under ORS Chapter 455.
(6) All enforcement and appeals shall be processed in
the manner prescribed under this Division and
through Article Eleven, Division One of the Coos
County Code.

SECTION 07.05.060       DANGEROUS BUILDING OR STRUCTURE

A building or structure defined in this Division may be
declared to be dangerous under the following conditions:
 (1) The building or structure, or any portion thereof,
has been so damaged by fire as to become:
(a)  An attractive nuisance to children;
(b)  A harbor for vagrants, or criminals; or
(c)  Is a place where a person or persons may
resort thereto for the purpose of
committing unlawful acts.
(2) Whenever any portion of a building or structure
remains on site after the demolition or
destruction of the building or structure as to
constitute such building or portion thereof an
attractive nuisance to children or hazard to the
public.

ARTICLE VII - Page 47
SECTION 07.05.070  ENFORCEMENT

A building declared to be dangerous constitutes a public
nuisance subject to abatement standards and procedures under
this Division, and is a violation of law enforceable under
the provisions of Article Eleven, Division One of the Coos
County Code.

SECTION 07.05.080     NOTICES AND ORDERS

The building official shall issue a notice and order to the
record owner of the building.  The notice shall be served
personally or mailed by certified mail, postage prepaid,
return receipt requested, to each such person at their
address as it appears on the last equalized assessment roll
of the county or as know to the building official, and
posted on the property.  If no address of any such person so
appears or is known to the building official, then a copy of
the notice and order shall be so mailed, addressed to such
person, at the address of the building involved in the
proceedings. The failure of any such person to receive such
notice shall not affect the validity of any enforcement
proceedings taken under this Division.

Proof of service of the notice and order shall be certified
to at the time of service by a written declaration under
penalty of perjury executed by the persons effecting
service, declaring the time, date and manner in which
service was made.  This declaration, together with any
receipt card returned in acknowledgment of receipt by
certified mail shall be affixed to the copy of the notice
and order retained by the building official.

The notice and order shall contain:
(1) The street address and a legal description
sufficient for identification of the premises upon
which the building is located.
(2) A statement that the building official has
found the building to be dangerous with a brief
description of the condition found to render the
building dangerous under the provisions of this
Division.
(3)  A statement of the action required to be taken
as determined by the building official.
(4) A statement advising that if any required
repair or demolition work (without removal also
being required) is not completed within the time
frame specified, the building official will seek
enforcement as outlined in this Division and
Article Eleven, Division One, of the Coos County
Code.

SECTION 07.05.090        ABATEMENT

The following standards shall be followed by the building

ARTICLE VII - Page 48
official in ordering repair, removal, or demolition of a
building or structure declared to be dangerous under this
Division:
(1) Any building declared a dangerous building under
this Division shall be made to comply with one of
the following:
(a) The building shall be repaired in accordance
with the current building code or other
current code applicable to the type of
substandard conditions requiring repair; or
(b) The building shall be demolished at the
option of the building owner; or
(c) If the building does not constitute an
immediate danger to the life, limb, property
or safety of the public it may be vacated,
secured and maintained against entry.
(2) If the building or structure is in such condition
as to make it immediately dangerous to the life
limb, property or safety of the public, or its
occupants, it shall be ordered to be vacated.

SECTION 07.05.100       NOTICE TO VACATE

Posting: Every notice to vacate shall in addition to being
served notice under Section 07.05.080 of this Division shall
be posted at or upon each exit of the building and shall be
in substantially the following form:

DO NOT ENTER        UNSAFE TO OCCUPY
It is a misdemeanor to occupy this building, or to remove or
deface this notice.

Building Official of COOS COUNTY.
Compliance: Whenever such notice is posted no
person shall remain in or enter any building, except that
entry may be made to repair, demolish or remove such
building under permit.  No person shall remove or deface any
such notice after it is posted until the required repairs,
demolition or removal has been completed.

ARTICLE VII - Page 49
DIVISION SIX - LICENSING, INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT OF
TOURIST FACILITIES
  [Adopted as Division Six of Article Seven on
          January 9, 2007]

SECTION 07.06.010  PURPOSE

The purpose of this division is to provide the regulatory
framework for Coos County to implement the delegation of
authority, responsibilities, and functions from the State of
Oregon to Coos County for the licensing, inspection, and
enforcement of tourist facilities within Coos County in
accordance with OAR Ch. 333, Div. 12.

SECTION 07.06.020  ENFORCEMENT

(1) Unless otherwise stated, the authority of the
County to enforce any provision under this
division by citation for violation of County
ordinance, shall be in addition to and not in lieu
of, all other civil and criminal enforcement
authority delegated to the County by law.
(2) Pursuant to ORS 153.008(1)(c), the offense of any
of the provisions of Section 07.06.040 shall
constitute a Violation as set forth in Section
07.06.050, and shall be enforceable by citation in
accordance with Coos County Code Article Eleven,
Division One.

SECTION 07.06.030  DEFINITIONS

(1) As used in this division, unless the context
requires otherwise, all terms shall have the
meanings set forth in ORS 446.310, OAR 333-012-
0050(2), OAR 333-029-0015, OAR 333-030-0015, and
OAR 333-031-0002, and as subsequently amended.
(2) “Administrator” means the Public Health
Administrator for the Coos County Health
Department, or that person’s designee(s).
(3) “Enforcement Officer” shall have the meaning set
forth in ORS 153.005, and as subsequently amended.

SECTION 07.06.040  CONDUCT RELATING TO TOURIST
FACILITIES

(1) Except as provided in ORS 446.325, no person shall
establish, operate, manage or maintain a tourist
facility within Coos County, without a license
from the County.
(2) No person shall construct, operate, use, manage,
or maintain a tourist facility within Coos County
in a manner that does not comply with the rules
adopted by the Department of Human Services for
the administration of ORS 446.310 to 446.350 and
446.990.

ARTICLE VII - Page 50

(3) A person operating a tourist facility shall permit
the Administrator and any Enforcement Officer
access to all of the facility at any reasonable
time for the purposes of conducting an inspection
to determine whether the facility conforms with
this Division, ORS 446.310 to 446.350, and the
rules adopted pursuant thereto.
(4) The owner or operator of a recreation park or
organizational camp that does not provide for the
safe disposal of sewage or other wastes shall post
a notice in a conspicuous place stating that
camping vehicles are permitted overnight only if
the vehicle's waste holding tanks are used.
(5) No person shall use kitchen or toilet facilities
in a camping vehicle being operated on a highway
or County Road, or parked overnight at a place
where sanitary facilities are not provided unless
the person makes provision whereby sewage and
other waste materials can be held in watertight
and sanitary containers of a type approved by the
Department of Human Services.
(6) No person shall empty a container described in
subsection (5) of this Section except into a
public sewerage system, or other conveyance
approved by the Department of Human Services.
(7) Except as specified under (4) of this Section,
camping shall not be permitted at a tourist
facility without toilet facilities approved by the
Department of Human Services.
(8) No person shall, when using a recreation park or
organizational camp, create an unsanitary
condition or deposit putrescible or nonputrescible
waste any place other than in appropriate
containers designated for such purposes.

SECTION 07.06.050  PENALTIES

(1) Offense of the following Sections of this
ordinance shall constitute a Class A Violation:
  (a) Sections 07.06.040(6), (7), and (8).
(b) Section 07.06.040(2) as to compliance with
any part of OARs 333-029-0075, 333-029-0076,
333-029-0080, 333-029-0095, 333-029-0100,
333-030-0080, 333-030-0090, 333-030-0100,
333-030-0105, 333-030-0120, 333-030-0125,
333-031-0004, 333-031-0005, 333-031-0006 and
333-031-0110, and as subsequently amended.
(2) Offense of the following Sections of this
ordinance shall constitute a Class B Violation:
(a) Sections 07.06.040(3) and (5).
(b) Section 07.06.040(2) as to compliance with
any part of OARs 333-029-0025, 333-029-0030,
333-029-0050, 333-029-0060, 333-029-0065,
333-029-0105, 333-029-0110, 333-030-0040,

ARTICLE VII - Page 51
333-030-0045,  333-030-0055,  333-030-0065,
333-030-0070, 333-030-0085, 333-030-0095,
333-030-0110, 333-030-0115, 333-031-0007,
333-031-0008, 333-031-0012, 333-031-0018,
333-031-0059, and 333-031-0066, and as
subsequently amended.
(3) Offense of the following Sections of this
ordinance shall constitute a Class C Violation:
(a) Sections 07.06.040(1) and (4).
(b) Section 07.06.040(2) as to compliance with
any part of OARs 333-029-0020, 333-029-0035,
333-029-0040, 333-029-0045, 333-029-0070,
333-029-0090, 333-030-0020, 333-030-0025,
333-030-0035, 333-030-0050, 333-030-0060,
333-030-0075, 333-031-0014, 333-031-0020,
333-031-0060, 333-031-0062, 333-031-0064 and
333-031-0068, and as subsequently amended.

ARTICLE VII - Page 52
DIVISION SEVEN - IMPLEMENTATION OF CITY OF BANDON MUNICIPAL
CODE SECTION 8.08.150 WITHIN THE CITY OF BANDON URBAN GROWTH
BOUNDARY [Adopted as Division Seven of Article Seven on
February 1, 2021]

SECTION 07.07.010 PURPOSE
The purpose of this Division is to adopt Section 8.08.150 of
the City of Bandon Municipal Code (BMC) within the City of
Bandon’s urban growth boundary (Bandon UGB), and delegate
enforcement and administration authority to the City of
Bandon. The City of Bandon and the County share an interest
in the heightened enforcement of Bandon’s noxious vegetation
rules within the Bandon UGB.

SECTION 07.07.020 ADOPTION OF MC 8.08.150
County hereby adopts BMC 8.08.150, attached as Exhibit 1, as
a material part of this Division, and applies its provisions
to all areas within the Bandon UGB. A map of the current
Bandon UGB is attached as Exhibit 2. Changes in the
boundaries of the Bandon UGB shall not require modifications
of this Division or Ordinance 20-10-008L. This Division
shall apply at all times within the entirety of the Bandon
UGB as configured at any given time.

SECTION 07.07.030 DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY
County transfers all authority needed to implement and
enforce this Division to properties located within the
Bandon UGB. The City of Bandon shall administer the
enforcement of this Division within the Bandon UGB in the
same manner as it does for properties located within the
Bandon city limits. All terms contained in BMC 8.08.150, as
attached, to the extent that they are ambiguous or require
further definition, shall be interpreted by reference to the
BMC.

SECTION 07.07.040. LIMITATION ON COUNTY RESPONSIBILITY
The County does not retain any obligation or responsibility
of implementing or enforcing BMC 8.08.150 within Bandon’s
urban growth boundary.

ARTICLE VII - Page 53

ARTICLE VII - Page 54