ARTICLE VI - Page 1
 ARTICLE SIX – COUNTY PROPERTY REGULATIONS
[Renamed Article Six July 17, 2018]

DIVISION ONE - PARK REGULATIONS

[Article Six, Division One was extensively revised by Ordinance
92-03-005L, effective April 8, 1992]

SECTION 06.01.010  CITING THIS ORDINANCE

This ordinance may be cited as the Coos County Parks Ordinance or
as the Coos County Park Rules.  [97-08-008L]

SECTION 06.01.020  RESERVED

SECTION 06.01.030  DEFINITIONS

As used in this Division, unless the context requires otherwise:
 (1) "Alcoholic liquor" means any alcoholic beverage
containing more than 1-1/2 of 1% alcohol by volume and
every liquid or solid, patented or not, containing
alcohol and capable of being consumed by a human being.
 (2) "County" means Coos County, a political subdivision of
the State of Oregon.
 (3) "County Board" means the Board of County Commissioners
for Coos County, Oregon.
 (4) "Horse" means a horse, mule, donkey or other animal that
can be ridden.
 (5) "Motor Vehicle" means any self- propelled vehicle or
vehicle designed for self- propulsion, except a vehicle
designed for and being used by one disabled person.
 (6) "Park" means an area designated by the County Board as a
public park and recreation area pursuant to ORS 275.320.
 "Park" also means such other property under the control
of the County designated by the Board as regulated by
this Division, but not designated as an ORS 275.320
park.
 (7) "Park Employee" means an employee of the Coos County
Parks and Recreation Department.
 (8) "Parks Department" means the Coos County Department of
Parks and Recreation, its Director, employees and
agents.
 (9) "Parks Director" means the person appointed by the
County Board as Director of the Coos County Parks and
Recreation Department.
 (10) "Pets" means any animal kept for domestic purposes.

SECTION 06.01.035  RULES

The Board, in addition to the regulations set forth in this
Division, may, by order, adopt such additional rules it believes
necessary for the operation, management and protection of parks
and persons using the parks.  Such rules may be general in nature

ARTICLE VI - Page 2
or directed to a specific park and shall be posted in the specific
park areas to which they pertain.  Within a park, no person shall
violate such rules and such rules shall be enforceable in the same
manner as this Division.

SECTION 06.01.040  PARK CLOSURE

 (1) The Parks Director, or designee, is authorized to close
to public use any County park or portion thereof, or
restrict the times when the same shall be open to such
use, or limit or prohibit any recreational use whenever,
in the Park Director's judgment, such actions are
necessary to protect the public health, safety or
welfare, or for the protection of the park or any of its
facilities.
 (2) Any closure beyond three (3) days shall be authorized by
order of the County Board.
 (3) Reasonable cause for closure or restricted use shall
include, but not be limited to, the following:
  (a) extreme fire hazard;
  (b) dangerous water or weather conditions;
  (c) sanitary protection of water shed;
  (d) Parks Department construction or repairs;
  (e) conservation of fish and wildlife;
  (f) excessive boat traffic;
  (g) unsafe or crowded shoreline, ramps, parking or road
conditions;
  (h) damage to a park or any of its facilities; or
  (i) any dangerous, unsafe or unhealthful condition.
 (4) Closure time for all day use areas shall be sunset
unless otherwise posted.
 (5) A park employee may, as conditions warrant, close the
park at any time of the day or night to any new arrivals
in order to limit the number of persons using day use
and camping facilities on any given day or in any
twenty-four (24) hour period.  Any such closure to new
arrivals will last so long as the park employee believes
necessary to prevent overcrowding.

SECTION 06.01.050  FEES AND PERMITS

 (1) All fees and charges, including permits issued by the
Parks Department authorizing the use of a park or any of
its areas of facilities, shall be in accordance with the
schedules adopted from time to time by the County Board.
 (2) No person shall enter or use any park or any of its
facilities without first paying the prescribed fee, if
any, to the Parks Department.
 (3) No person shall refuse to exhibit to any park employee,
upon demand, any permit issued by the Parks Department.

SECTION 06.01.055  SPECIAL EVENTS

The County may, at its sole discretion, authorize the organizer of

ARTICLE VI - Page 3
a special event exclusive use of a park.  The organizer may
authorize concessions to operate in the park and collect an
admission fee for entry into the park.  The County shall be paid a
percentage of all gross revenues collected from admissions and/or
concessions as adopted from time to time by the County Board.  The
County may impose such conditions as it deems necessary when
issuing a Special Use Permit for such events.  [97-08-008L]

SECTION 06.01.060  AUTHORITY TO REVOKE PERMITS

 (1) A park employee may revoke any permit issued unlawfully
or erroneously or when there is reasonable cause to
believe the permit holder has violated any provisions of
the permit, this Division or state law.  A park employee
may also expel such person from the park.
 (2) A park employee may take possession of any revoked or
fictitious permit. [Ordinance 94-06-007L]

SECTION 06.01.065  REMOVAL FROM COUNTY PARKS

 In addition to the enforcement provisions of Article Eleven,
Division One of the Coos County Code, any peace officer or
park employee may expel from a County Park any person who
violates any provision of this Division or state law and who
is damaging park property or disturbing other persons in the
park. [Ordinance 94-06-007L]

SECTION 06.01.070  MOTOR VEHICLES

 (1) Within a park no persons shall:
  (a) Drive a motor vehicle at a speed greater than 10
miles per hour unless otherwise posted.
  (b) Drive a motor vehicle on other than established
vehicular roads, parking areas or boat ramps,
except those areas specifically designated for such
use.
  (c) Park or leave unattended any motor vehicle and/or
trailer in any area or in any manner not designated
by the Parks Department for parking.
  (d) Park or leave unattended any motor vehicle and/or
trailer on any boat launching facility.
  (e) Drive an unlicensed motor vehicle, nor drive a
motor vehicle without a valid operator's license.
  (f) Drive any motor vehicle in a reckless manner, or in
wanton disregard for the safety of persons or
property.
  (g) Drive a motorcycle that is not licensed for street
use in a park, except where expressly permitted.
 (2) The Parks Department may, at the owner's expense, move
or remove any motor vehicle or trailer which is parked
in violation of this Division.
 (3) Within a park no person shall park or leave a boat or
boat trailer in other than areas clearly designated for
such purpose or as otherwise authorized by a park
employee.

ARTICLE VI - Page 4

SECTION 06.01.080  ANIMALS

 (1) Pets are permitted in County Parks except in areas
specifically designated as closed to pets.
 (2) A park employee may refuse to admit to a park or expel
from a park any pet or other animal that is or appears
in the judgment of the park employee to be dangerous or
likely to disturb other persons in the park.
 (3) In those parks or park areas where pets are permitted,
the following regulations shall apply:
  (a) No person shall allow any pet to run unrestrained
without prior permission from the Parks Department.
 Pets shall be restrained by a secure leash not
over ten (10) feet long.
  (b) No person shall allow any pet in the person's
custody to annoy or molest any person.
  (c) Reserved.
  (d) No persons shall tie, secure or hobble a horse, dog
or other animal in a manner which injures any tree,
shrub or park property.
  (e) Except for peace officers, no person shall drive,
ride, lead or keep a horse in any park, except in
areas designated for that purpose.
  (f) No person shall bring any animal, other than a
seeing-eye dog, into any park building.
 (4) No person shall pursue, kill, injure, hunt, molest or in
any manner disturb any bird or animal within a park,
except as may be permitted by resolution of the County
Board.
 (5) In addition to any other means of enforcing this
section, any peace officer, animal control officer, or
park employee may impound any pet or other animal in the
custody of a person who is in violation of subsections 1
or 3 of this section or is dangerous or disturbing other
persons in the park. [Ordinance 94-06-007L]

SECTION 06.01.085  GENERAL REGULATIONS

 (1) No persons shall operate or use any noise producing
machine, vehicle, device or instrument in such a manner
that is disturbing to other park visitors.
 (2) No unauthorized person shall enter or remain in a park
between the daily closing time and daily opening time
established by the Parks Department and posted at the
entrance to each park.

SECTION 06.01.090  FIREARMS, OTHER WEAPONS AND
   EXPLOSIVES

 (1) Within a park no person shall:
  (a) Discharge any firearm, pellet gun, wrist rocket,
bow and arrow, slingshot or any other missile
launching device, except in those areas designated

ARTICLE VI - Page 5
by the Parks Department for such use.
  (b) Possess any loaded firearm, unless authorized by
the County Board or state law.
  (c) Possess or use any fireworks or other explosives
without prior written permission from the Parks
Department.

SECTION 06.01.095  FIRES

 (1) Fires in park areas shall be confined to:
  (a) Park camp stoves or fireplaces provided for such
purposes.
  (b) Portions of beach areas designated as permissible
for fires.
  (c) Portable stoves in established campsites, park
picnic areas, and designated beaches where fires
are permitted.
 (2) No fire shall be left unattended or be permitted to
cause damage to park facilities or areas.  Every fire
shall be extinguished before its users leave the park
area.
 (3) At the discretion of the park manager, fires normally
permitted in park areas may be restricted or prohibited
due to high fire hazard conditions.

SECTION 06.01.100  OVERNIGHT CAMPING

 (1) No persons shall camp in any park without a valid
camping permit.  Camping shall be confined to areas
specifically designated for such use.  A park employee
may revoke a camping permit if the permit holder does
not maintain the campsite in a reasonably clean,
sanitary and safe manner.
 (2) No persons shall remove, vandalize or destroy any valid
permit displayed at a campsite.
 (3) A camping permit will expire after a minimum of fourteen
(14) days, unless the Parks Director or designee extends
the time limit, provided that such extension shall not
be unfair to other persons desiring to use the camping
facility.  Any permit extended beyond the time specified
by this Division shall be considered a new permit for
which all fees and charges must be paid.  When the
fourteen (14) day camping limit is reached, the permit
holder must vacate the park for a minimum of twenty-four
(24) hours, unless an extension is granted.
Notwithstanding the above, the Parks Department is
authorized to issue monthly camping permits from
November 1st up to but not including Memorial Day
weekend.  [97-08-008L]
 (4) All camping permits expire at 2:30 p.m. on the
expiration date.
 (5) Overnight campers under 18 years of age must be
accompanied by a parent or guardian.
 (6) No persons shall reserve or attempt to reserve a
campsite without prior written consent from the Parks

ARTICLE VI - Page 6
Department.
 (7) Each individual campsite shall be used by no more than
one family unit at any one time, except that a park
employee may allow more than one family unit to occupy a
campsite when, in the employee's opinion, such use will
not unnecessarily impair the health, safety or enjoyment
of other park visitors or be detrimental to park
resources.

SECTION 06.01.105  BOATS AND MOORAGE

 (1) Boaters must comply with park regulatory signs posted in
boat launching, moorage and beach areas.
 (2) Boats moored shall be secured in manner that will not
cause personal injury or damage to private property or
park resources.
 (3) There shall be no swimming or water skiing in the
immediate area of or from boat moorage docks or
facilities.
 (4) Fishing from boat moorage docks may be permitted at the
discretion of the park manager.

SECTION 06.01.110  SPECIAL EVENTS OR GROUP ACTIVITIES

Persons intending to conduct special events or group activities,
including, but not limited to, weddings, receptions, club
meetings, company picnics and parties, shall obtain a permit from
the Parks Department at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to the
activity or event to be conducted.  All activities must comply
with state laws.  The permit holder shall pay, in advance, any
clean up fee or deposit established by the Board under Section
06.01.050.

SECTION 06.01.115  SIGNS AND CONCESSIONS

 (1) Except in designated areas, no sign, marker, or
inscription of any kind shall be placed within a park
area without written permission from the park manager.
 (2) No person may distribute circulars, notices, leaflets,
pamphlets, or written or printed information of any kind
within a park area unless they have first reported their
name, address and the number of leaflets to be
distributed to the park manager.
 (3) The following activities are prohibited in a park area
without prior authorization from the park director.
  (a) Operating concessions, soliciting, selling, or
offering for sale, peddling, hawking, or vending
any goods, wares, merchandise, food, liquids, or
services.
  (b) Advertising any goods or services by any means
whatsoever.

SECTION 06.01.120  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES

 (1) The Parks Director shall adopt a schedule specifying the

ARTICLE VI - Page 7
amounts and types of alcoholic beverages which may be
brought into any park.
 (2) The Parks Director shall have authority to revise this
schedule.  The schedule may contain provisions requiring
that a written permit be obtained prior to bringing
certain types or quantities of alcoholic beverages into
a park.
 (3) No person shall provide alcohol to a visibly intoxicated
person. [Ordinance 94-06-007L]

SECTION 06.01.130  REFUSE

Within a park no persons shall:
 (1) Throw, dump or deposit any trash, refuse, garbage,
litter or waste material, except in receptacles
designated by the Parks Department for that purpose.
 (2) Bring into a park any trash, refuse, garbage, litter,
waste material or vehicle for the purpose of leaving it
herein.
 (3) Throw, dump or deposit into the water of a lake or
stream, or the banks thereof, any trash, refuse,
garbage, litter, waste material or any other polluting
products of any kind.
 (4) Clean any fish, except at places designated by the Parks
Department for this purpose, or dispose of any fish or
fish wastes except in an appropriate garbage container.

SECTION 06.01.135  LOST ARTICLES

All lost articles found in park areas must be turned over to a
park employee.  If the article is not claimed by the owner within
one year, the article may be returned to the finder pursuant to
applicable state law and procedures.

SECTION 06.01.140  PUBLIC ADDRESS SYSTEM

No persons shall set up or use a public address system in a park
without the written permission of the Parks Department.

SECTION 06.01.145  DISCRIMINATION

Within a park, no person shall engage in any activity or use of
facilities that discriminates on the basis of race, sex, color,
age, creed or national origin.

SECTION 06.01.150  DAMAGE, DISPLACEMENT OR REMOVAL OF
     PARK PROPERTY

 (1) Except for picking mushrooms or edible fruits for
personal consumption, no persons shall, within a County
park:
  (a) Pick, cut, mutilate or remove flowers, shrubs,

ARTICLE VI - Page 8
foliage, trees or plant life without written
permission from the Parks Department.
  (b) Mutilate, deface, damage move or remove any park
equipment, including but not limited to tables,
benches, buildings, signs, markers, plaques,
barriers, fountains, faucets, traffic recorders or
other structures or facilities.
  (c) Dig, dredge, deface or remove any dirt, stones,
rocks, artifacts or other substances, make any
excavation, quarry stones or other objects, or
cause or assist in doing any of the things except
with written permission from the Parks Department.
 (2) As a means of deterring vandalism and theft of County
property in the Coos County Parks, the Board of
Commissioners, in their discretion, may offer a reward
of up to five hundred ($500.00) dollars to persons who
supply information which leads to the arrest and
conviction of persons responsible for vandalism and/or
theft of County property in the Coos County Parks.  The
details of any such offer of reward shall be set forth
in the order or resolution offering such reward.

SECTION 06.01.160  TENMILE LAKES

 (1) The County park located on Tenmile Lake in the community
of Lakeside shall be known as Tenmile Lake County Park.
 (2)  USE OF DOCKS
  (a) The easternmost dock at the park is hereby
designated Boarding Dock #1.  The center-east dock
is hereby designated Boarding Dock #2.  The center-
west dock is hereby designated Transient Dock #3.
The westernmost dock is hereby designated Fishing
Dock #4.  Swimming from these docks is prohibited
at all times.
  (b) Boarding Dock #1 is hereby designated as a boat
moorage dock.  Two hour moorage is permitted as
posted.  Fishing and swimming from Boarding Dock #1
are prohibited at all times.
  (c) Boarding Dock #2 and Transient Dock #3 are hereby
designated as boat moorage docks only.  Fishing and
swimming from Boarding Dock #2 and Transient Dock
#3 are prohibited at all times.
   (i) Two hour moorage is permitted on both sides of
Boarding Dock #2 beginning at the southern
(lake) end of the dock and extending to the
points posted, as designated by the Parks
Director.  Moorage is prohibited between those
points and shore.
   (ii) Temporary moorage for loading and unloading is
permitted only on Transient Dock #3.
Temporary boat moorage is permitted on both
sides of Transient Dock #3 beginning at the
southern (lake) end of the dock and extending
to the points posted, as designated by the
Parks Director.  Moorage is prohibited between

ARTICLE VI - Page 9
those points and the shore.
  (d) Fishing Dock #4 is hereby designated a fishing dock
only.  Boat moorage is prohibited at all times on
Fishing Dock #4 except that emergency boat moorage
is allowed.  In such cases, the moorage shall not
exceed the duration of the emergency period.
Swimming from Fishing Dock #4 is prohibited at all
times. [Ordinance 94-06-007L]
  (e) Signs shall be posted on all docks indicating the
place and type of moorage allowed.
  (f) Overnight moorage is prohibited on any of the
docks.
  (g) Motorized and non-motorized vehicles are prohibited
on any of the docks.
 (3) CAMPING PROHIBITED.  Overnight camping is prohibited
within the premises of the park.  Notwithstanding the
above, during special events when overnight camping is
desired for security purposes, application for overnight
camping may be made to the Parks Department.  The Parks
Director shall have sole discretion, subject to review
by the Board of Commissioners, to grant a permit for
overnight camping in such circumstances.
 (4) COMMERCIAL ENTERPRISES PROHIBITED.  No commercial
enterprise shall be conducted within the park or within
one hundred (100) yards of the service docks or the
designated swimming areas.  This prohibition on
commercial activity includes charter boats and
houseboats mooring on the County docks or anchoring
within one hundred (100) yards of the docks, swimming
area, launching ramp or the park it self.  No commercial
or non-commercial woodcutting or log hauling shall be
conducted within the park.  Notwithstanding the above,
application for a permit to allow an activity prohibited
by this Section may be made to the Parks Department.
The Parks Director shall have sole discretion, subject
to review by the Board of Commissioners, to grant a
permit for commercial activity in such circumstances.
 (5) PARKING.  Except for vehicles with boat trailers parked
in areas specifically designated by the Parks Director
for long term parking, vehicles and boat trailers may be
parked for a seventy-two (72) hour time limit only.  In
areas designated by the Parks Director for long term
parking of vehicles with trailers, parking shall be
allowed for a maximum of fourteen (14) days.  The areas
for long term parking shall be posted by the Parks
Director.  Owners and/or users of vehicles and boat
trailers left longer than the designated time limit or
otherwise in violation of this Division may be cited by
an employee of the Coos County Parks Department and/or
by a deputy of the Coos County Sheriff's Department.
Citation may be made by leaving a copy of the citation
affixed to the vehicle or boat trailer, by personal
delivery to the person in possession of the vehicle or
boat trailer or by personal delivery to the owner of the
vehicle or boat trailer.

ARTICLE VI - Page 10
 (6) TIE DOWN AREA.  No vehicle shall stop in the area
immediately in front of the boat ramps, as designated by
the Parks Director, for the purpose of securing boats.
Park users may stop vehicles for the purpose of securing
boats to trailers only in the area designated as the
"tie down area".  The Parks Director shall clearly post
the "tie down area".
 (7) POSTING.  A summary of the regulations contained in this
Division shall be posted at the main entrance to Tenmile
Lake County Park.  It may be posted at any other
convenient place of posting within the premises of the
park.  Notwithstanding this section, such posting shall
not be considered an element of any proceeding brought
to enforce this Division, and failure to post and/or
lack of knowledge of the terms of this Division shall
not be a defense in any such proceeding.

[Article Six, Division One was extensively revised by Ordinance
92-03-005L, effective April 8, 1992]

ARTICLE VI - Page 11
ARTICLE SIX – COUNTY PROPERTY REGULATIONS

DIVISION TWO – COUNTY FOREST REGULATIONS
[Adopted as Division Two of Article Six on July 17, 2018]

SECTION 06.02.010  CITING THIS ORDINANCE

This ordinance may be cited as the Coos County Forest Ordinance or
as the Coos County Forest Rules.  [18-07-005L]

SECTION 06.02.020  PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY

The purpose of this Division is to promulgate certain rules
governing public use of the County Forest and define the powers of
the County Forester and Forestry Employees in certain
circumstances. This Division is necessary to protect the County
Forest for future timber production and recreational use. This
Division is not intended as a comprehensive regulatory scheme, and
the County Forester shall retain all current management authority
not subject to the specific provisions of this Division.

SECTION 06.02.030  DEFINITIONS

As used in this Division, unless the context requires otherwise:
 (1) "County" means Coos County, a political subdivision of
the State of Oregon.
 (2) "County Board" means the Board of County Commissioners
for Coos County, Oregon.
 (3) "County Forest" means an area designated by the County
Board as county forest pursuant to ORS 275.320.
 (4) "Forestry Employee" means an employee of the Coos County
Forestry Department.
 (5) "Forestry Department" means the Coos County Department
of Forestry, its Director, employees and agents.
 (6) "County Forester" means the person appointed by the
County Board as Director of the Forestry Department.

SECTION 06.02.040  RULES

The County Board, in addition to the regulations set forth in this
Division, may, by order, adopt such additional rules it believes
necessary for the operation, management and protection of the
County Forest.  Such rules may be general in nature or directed to
a specifically identified portion of the County Forest.

SECTION 06.02.050  COUNTY FOREST CLOSURES

 (1) Closure of Entire County Forest. The County Forester, or
designee, is authorized to close to public use the
entire County Forest, or restrict the times when the
County Forest shall be open to such use, or limit or
prohibit any recreational use in the entire County

ARTICLE VI - Page 12
Forest whenever, in the County Forester’s judgment, such
actions are necessary to protect the public health,
safety or welfare, or for the protection of the County
Forest or any of its facilities.
  (a) Any closure of the entire County Forest beyond
three (3) days shall be authorized by order of the
County Board.
  (b) Reasonable cause for closure or restricted use
shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
   (A) Extreme fire hazard;
   (B) Dangerous weather conditions; or
   (C) Any dangerous, unsafe or unhealthful
condition.
 (2) Partial County Forest Closures. The County
  Forester is authorized to close to public use any
  portion of the County Forest on which there are
  active forestry activities that present a danger
  to the safety of the public. Partial closures of
  the County Forest under this subsection shall be
  within the discretion of the County Forester and
  not subject to the County Board approval
  requirements of subsection (1) above.

SECTION 06.02.060  FEES AND PERMITS

 (1) All fees and charges, including permits issued by the
Forestry Department, shall be in accordance with the
schedules adopted from time to time by the County Board.
 (2) No person shall refuse to exhibit to any Forestry
Employee, upon demand, any permit issued by the Forestry
Department.

SECTION 06.02.070  AUTHORITY TO REVOKE PERMITS

 (1) A Forestry Employee may revoke any permit issued
unlawfully or erroneously or when there is reasonable
cause to believe the permit holder has violated any
provisions of the permit, this Division, or state law.
 (2) A Forestry Employee may take possession of any revoked
or fictitious permit.

SECTION 06.02.080  GENERAL REGULATIONS

(1) Camping Prohibited. The County Forest is a day use only
recreation area and it is unlawful for any person to set
up camp, tents, or any temporary shelter or to use
recreational vehicles, house trailers, campers, or
automobiles for the purpose of camping between sunset
and sunrise without prior approval of the County
Forester. The County Forester, or designee, shall have
the authority to authorize overnight camping that may be
required for security reasons or for specific forestry
activities.
(2) Unauthorized Fires Prohibited. No person shall light,

ARTICLE VI - Page 13
ignite, or start a fire within the County Forest. No
person shall allow or cause a fire to be lighted,
ignited or started within the County Forest. This
subsection shall not apply to authorized fires started
and maintained in accordance with generally accepted
forestry practices.
(3) Interference with Forestry Operations Prohibited. No
person shall intentionally interfere with or impede
forestry operations within the County Forest. Forestry
operations include but are not limited to logging,
planting trees, herbicide application, and any other
activities required for harvesting timber or managing
the County Forest for timber production.

SECTION 06.02.090  VIOLATIONS; EXCLUSION FROM COUNTY FOREST

(1) Violation of any provision of this Division shall
constitute a Class A Violation and may be enforced under
the provisions of Article Eleven, Division One of the
Coos County Code.
(2) The County Forester may exclude any person who violates
the provisions of this Division from the County Forest.
Exclusions issued by the County Forester under this
Division shall follow the procedure provided in Article
Six, Division Three of the Coos County Code. The County
Forester may delegate the authority to issue exclusions
to Forestry Employees on a case- by-case basis. Nothing
in this Division shall be construed as limiting the
power of the County Forester to issue any other
exclusion for any other reason authorized by Article
Six, Division Three, of the Coos County Code.

ARTICLE VI - Page 14
ARTICLE SIX – COUNTY PROPERTY REGULATIONS

DIVISION THREE – EXCLUSION OF PERSONS FROM COUNTY BUILDINGS AND
PROPERTY

[Adopted as Division Three of Article Six on July 17, 2018,
Amended by Ordinance 22-11-008L, extensively revised by Ordinance
23-02-003L, effective June 19, 2023]

SECTION 06.03.010  TITLE

Exclusion of Persons from Coos County Buildings and Property.

SECTION 06.03.020  PURPOSE

To establish a policy and procedure for lawfully excluding
disruptive or threatening persons from Coos County buildings and
property.

SECTION 06.03.030  GENERAL POLICY

A person who engages in certain disruptive or threatening
behavior, as described in this Division, in County buildings or
on County property shall be subject to immediate exclusion to
ensure the safety of others, the safety of County property, and
the ability to conduct County business.

SECTION 06.03.040  PERSONS SUBJECT TO EXCLUSION
(1) A person shall be subject to exclusion from County
buildings and property if that person engages in any of
the following types of conduct while on County
property:
(a) Fighting, engaging in threatening behavior, or
disorderly conduct;
(b) Interfering with county employees’ ability to
conduct County business;
(c) Making unreasonably loud or disturbing noise;
(d) Causing damage to or defacing County property;
(e) Intentionally entering or attempting to enter an
area not open to the public;
(f) Violating any federal or state law;
(g) Violating any County Ordinance regulating the use
of County property, including but not limited to
the Park Regulations found in Article Six,
Division One of the Coos County Code and the
County Forest Regulations found in Article Six,
Division Two of the Coos County Code;
(h) Remaining on County property for purposes other
than to conduct legitimate business with the
County or to use that property under the
applicable rules and laws; or
(i) Refusing to vacate County property after being
lawfully asked to do so by a County employee.

ARTICLE VI - Page 15
SECTION 06.03.050  PERSONS IN CHARGE
(1) For the purposes of this Division, the “persons in
charge” of County buildings and property are the Coos
County Board of Commissioners (hereinafter “Board”) or
the Board’s designees. Persons in charge shall have the
authority to exclude persons from County property under
this Division. The Board designates the following
“persons in charge” of the County property specified
below:
(a) The County Forester is hereby designated as the
person in charge of all County Forest property
subject to Article Six, Division Two of the Coos
County Code.
(b) The Parks Director is hereby appointed as the
person in charge of all County Parks property
subject to Article Six, Division One of the Coos
County Code.
(c) The Board may at any time designate additional
persons in charge of County property.

SECTION 06.03.060  EXCLUSION DECISION; LENGTH OF EXCLUSION
(1) Persons in charge shall have the discretion to exclude
persons from County property and buildings for a
reasonable period of time. An exclusion may be from all
County property and buildings or limited to certain
specified property or buildings, subject to any Board
order or decision limiting or otherwise defining the
authority of persons in charge. All persons in charge
shall consider the following factors when excluding
persons from County property:
(a) The nature of the conduct;
(b) The level of threat posed, including any risk of
violence;
(c) Any relevant history of past exclusions or similar
conduct; and
(d) The likelihood of repeated conduct.
(2) The following guidelines shall apply to exclusion of
individuals who, at the time of exclusion, have not
previously been excluded from County Property:
(a) Except as provided in subsection (b)and (c)
below, exclusions shall be no less than (7)
days and shall not exceed two (2) years.
(b) An exclusion may be up to five (5) years if
it is issued as a result of theft of more than
$100.00 of County property, intentional or
reckless actions causing more than $100.00 in
damage to County property, fighting or other
offensive physical contact, threats of
physical violence, and any behavior
constituting a crime on County property.
(c) Exclusions for up to a lifetime ban may be
issued to individuals who have committed, or
attempted to commit, activity that constitutes

ARTICLE VI - Page 16
a felony under Oregon law while on County
property.
(3) The following guidelines shall apply to the exclusion
of individuals who, at the time of exclusion, have been
previously excluded from County property:
(a) An individual who receives a second exclusion
under subsection (2)(a) above shall be subject
to exclusion for up to five (5) years.
(b) An individual who receives a third exclusion
under any combination of subsections (2)(a)
and (2)(b) above may be permanently excluded
from County property.
(c) An individual receiving a second exclusion
under Section (2)(b) above may be permanently
excluded from County property.
SECTION 06.03.070  NOTICE OF EXCLUSION
(1) If the person in charge determines that exclusion is
necessary, the person in charge shall issue a written
notice of exclusion. The notice shall be personally
served on the person to be excluded, or may
alternatively be served by mailing a copy by first-
class mail to the excluded individual’s residence or
mailing address. Service is not required if an excluded
person cannot, after reasonable inquiry, be located for
personal service or service by mail.
(2) All notices of exclusion shall contain the following
information:
(d) The name and address (if known) of the excluded
individual;
(e) Date and time of the event(s) resulting in the
exclusion;
(f) A description of the behavior resulting in the
exclusion sufficient to put the excluded person on
notice of the reason for the exclusion;
(g) The duration of time for which the exclusion will
remain in effect and a statement of the County
property from which the person shall be excluded
(whether from specific property or all property
generally);
(h) A statement that the excluded person may ask for
reconsideration of the exclusion and how such a
request may be made;
(i) A statement that an excluded person may obtain
necessary County services pursuant to Section
06.03.090 herein;
(j) A statement that violation of the notice of
exclusion could result in arrest and prosecution
pursuant to Oregon law, including ORS 164.245.
(k) A full copy of this policy for reference.
(4) In order to ensure the efficient administration of this
Division, County Counsel shall prepare and distribute
notice of exclusion forms for use by persons in charge.

ARTICLE VI - Page 17
SECTION 06.03.080  VIOLATION OF EXCLUSION NOTICE
(1) A person who violates an exclusion notice, after such
notice is served pursuant to Section 06.03.070 above,
may be arrested and face criminal prosecution for
trespass under ORS 164.245 and any other applicable
criminal statute.
(2) Violation of an exclusion issued under this Division
shall additionally constitute a Class A Violation
subject to enforcement under the provisions of Article
Eleven, Division One of the Coos County Code.

SECTION 06.03.090  NECESSARY COUNTY SERVICES

Any person excluded under this policy may obtain necessary County
services during the exclusion period. To do so, the excluded
person shall schedule to meet with County staff at a specific
location and at a mutually agreed upon time. The excluded
individual must conduct him or herself appropriately during any
such meeting.

SECTION 06.03.100  APPEAL OF EXCLUSION
(1) Excluded persons may appeal the exclusion by mailing a
written appeal within ten (10) days of the exclusion to
the Coos County Board of Commissioners. An appeal may
ask to have the exclusion rescinded or the exclusion
period shortened.
(2) A written appeal shall contain:
(a) Appellant’s name;
(b) Appellant’s mailing address and contact
information;
(c) A concise statement of the basis on which the
decision to exclude is invalid, unauthorized, or
otherwise improper; and
(d) A copy of the notice of exclusion.
(3) Hearings of appeals shall be held by either the Board
or a hearings officer appointed by Board order. The
Board or the appointed hearings officer shall set a
date and time for the appeal hearing not less than ten
(10) days nor more than sixty (60) days after the
receipt of a properly and timely filed appeal. The
Board or hearings officer may alter the date and time
for the hearing on its own motion or at the request of
the appellant for good cause. The hearings officer
appointed by the Board may designate a County employee
to set the date and time for the appeal hearing, after
consultation with the hearings officer.
(4) The County shall issue a Notice of Hearing to the
person filing a written appeal of an exclusion, stating
the date, time and place for the hearing on the appeal
filed. The Notice of Hearing shall be issued as soon as
reasonable after the date the hearing has been set.
(5) At the hearing, the County has the burden of showing by
a preponderance of the evidence that the exclusion is
warranted given the totality of the circumstances.

ARTICLE VI - Page 18
(6) The Board or hearings officer shall issue the final
decision in the form of a written order and shall
provide a copy of the order to the appellant.
(7) The decision of the Board or hearings officer on the
appeal shall be the final decision of the County on an
exclusion under this Division. The County’s final
decision is appealable by a timely Writ of Review filed
in Coos County Circuit Court pursuant to ORS 34.010 to
ORS 34.102.

[Adopted as Division Three of Article Six on July 17, 2018,
Amended by Ordinance 22-11-008L, extensively revised by Ordinance
23-02-003L, effective June 19, 2023]