FILEDIN CURRY COUNTY                          CJ:2020-6
                                                             Renee’ Kolen, County Clerk       = 01/08/2020 9:23:24 AM
                                                             Commissioners’ Joumal                           5 PAGES

                    PIN THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

                    IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF CURRY, OREGON

In the Matter of an Amendment                       )
to the Curry County Code                            )
Adding Article One, Division Twenty                 )      ORDINANCE           NO.        [       ~    |
Four, Creating a Curry Amateur                      )
Radio Emergency Service Group (CARES)               )

       The Board of Commissioners for the County of Curry ordains as follows:

SECTION 1: TITLE

       This Ordinance shall be known as Ordinance           | 4    ~   | 4        , an ordinance
amending the Curry County Code with respect to General Administration, Article One.

SECTION 2: ADOPTION

      Exhibit “A”, attached hereto and incorporated by reference, is adopted as an
amendment and new Division Twenty Four .

SECTION 3: SEVERANCE CLAUSE

         If any section, subsection, provision, clause or paragraph of this Ordinance shall
be adjudged or declared by any court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or
invalid, such judgement shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of the
Ordinance; and it is hereby expressly declared that every other section, subsection,
provision clause or paragraph of this Ordinance enacted, irrespective of the enactment
or validity of the portion thereof declared to be unconstitutional or invalid, is valid.

SECTION 4: EMERGENCY CLAUSE

       The Board of Commissioners for the County of Curry deems this Ordinance
necessary for the immediate preservation and protection of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare for Curry County and declares an emergency exits, and this
Ordinance shall be effective upon adoption.

           1. | Ordinance CARES Committee
          DATED this__| ga                 dayof D €cem ber               , 2020.

                                     BOARD OF CURRY COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

                                     Christopher Paasch, (Position)

                                  i          Boice, (Position)   2 - VF

                                     Sué    Gold, (Position)     ~~~
First Reading: /A-/8-/9
Second Reading:           __-#~
Emergency Adoption: /A-/A-/F
Effective Date: /2- /B— /F

Attest:

 Dol T. Bowed
Recording Secretary

Reviewed.    as     re)

John Huttl, Curry County Counsel

            1. | Ordinance CARES Committee
                                           “EXHIBIT A”

                                           ARTICLE ONE

DIVISION TWENTY FOUR                   Curry Amateur Radio Emergency Service Group (CARES)

SECTION 1.24.010 Creation of Curry Amateur Radio Emergency Service Group
(CARES) Committee

        There is hereby established for Curry County a Curry Amateur Radio Emergency
Services Group Committee (Committee/CARES).

SECTION 1.24.020       Purpose

       CARES shall exist to supplement and enhance emergency radio capabilities and
communications in Curry County. CARES is primarily involved with systems commonly known
as “HAM?” radio, but can include other systems as determined by the Committee.        In addition to
regularly scheduled meetings described below, CARES will respond as directed in emergencies
declared by Curry County, the State of Oregon or the Federal Government.
SECTION 1.24.030 Powers and Duties of CARES

       (1) CARES has powers and duties that include but are not limited to:
       (A) Develop and recommend to Curry County Emergency Manager:
            (i) Plans for the use of local, State and Federal resources to promote and enhance the
       activities of the Curry Amateur Radio Emergency Service (CARES) for the benefit of the
       public as a voluntary, non-commercial communications service.
            (ii) Technical issues involving message format, security of message transmission,
       Disaster Welfare Inquiry policies, and others, should be reviewed and expounded upon in
       a detailed local operations plan.
            (iii) An emergency traffic plan, with Welfare traffic, utilizing the National Traffic
       System as one active component for traffic handling. Establish an operational liaison with
       local and section nets, particularly for handling Welfare traffic in an emergency situation.
       (B) Establish local communications networks run on a regular basis and periodically test
those networks by conducting realistic drills.
       (C) Manage and coordinate the training, organization, and emergency participation of
interested volunteers working in support of the communities, agencies, or functions designated
by the Emergency Manager.
       (D) Establish viable working relationships with federal, state, county, city governmental
and private agencies in the CARES jurisdictional area which need the services of CARES in
emergencies.
            (i) Determine what agencies are active in your area, evaluate each of their needs, and
       which ones you are capable of meeting, and then prioritize these agencies and needs.
            (ii) Discuss planning with Emergency Manager and counterparts in each of the
       agencies. Ensure they are all aware of CARES group capabilities and limitations.
            (iii) Develop detailed local operational plans with served agencies and partners in
       local jurisdiction that set forth expectations during a disaster operation. Work jointly to
       establish protocols for mutual trust and respect, and a coordination mechanism for the
       good of the public and Amateur Radio. The goal is to foster an efficient and effective
       Amateur Radio response overall.
       (E) In times of disaster, and as directed by or in coordination with County Emergency
Management, evaluate the communications needs of the jurisdiction and respond quickly to
those needs. The Emergency Manager will assume authority and responsibility for coordinating
emergency response and performance by CARES personnel under his or her jurisdiction.
       (F) Work for growth in CARES program in order to make it a stronger, more valuable
resource, able to meet more of the County’s needs.
       (G) Set regular meeting times and locations.
       (H) Create committee by-laws and amendments for committee by-laws, including setting
training standards for members.
       (1) Report regularly to the Curry County Board of Commissioners, as directed.
SECTION 1.24.040         Membership

       (1) Committee.      There shall be four (4) members on the Committee; three (3) appointed
by the Board of Commissioners; the other who is the County Emergency Manager who serves as
a member ex officio. Of the appointed members, one each shall be from the North County area,
the South County area, and the Central County area. Term of appointment is four (2) years.
Appointed members serve at the pleasure of the Board of Commissioners.
        (2) Officers.
               (A) Chair. The County Emergency Management Coordinator shall Chair the
       Committee.       The County Assistant Emergency management Coordinator shall be Chair in
       absence of the Emergency Management Coordinator.
               (B) Vice Chair. Vice Chair shall be appointed at the first regular meeting of the
       Committee. Vice Chair shall preside in absence of the Chair. The Vice-Chair shall not be
       a County employee.
               (C) Training Officer. Training Officer shall be responsible for organizing and
       executing training and exercises per by-laws.
               (D) Terms of Office. All officers other than chair shall serve a term of two (2)
       years from date of election. Election of officers shall be by Committee membership
       when there is a vacancy to be filled. Officers will be elected by simple majority of voting
       members.
               (E) Secretary.    The secretary shall be duly appointed County staff. Committee
       records shall be retained by the County.
       (3) Non-voting General At Large Membership.         The Committee may accept volunteers as
non-voting Members at Large. Members at Large serve at the pleasure of the Committee.
Members at Large may attend and comment at all Committee Meetings, unless otherwise
directed by Committee or Chair. Qualifications for at-large membership shall be established by
Committee by-laws.
SECTION 1.24.050__Meetings

       Meetings shall be held on a schedule to be established by the Committee.      Special
meetings may be called by the Chair or by a majority of the Committee, or at the request of the
Curry County Board of Commissioners.
       Roberts Rules of Order (revised) shall guide any point of parliamentary procedure not
contained in the bylaws. Failure to follow Roberts Rules of Order shall not invalidate any action
by the Committee.
SECTION     1.24.060 Sub Committees

       The Committee may create subcommittees and task forces to perform such tasks as this
Committee   may     designate.    Unless   authorized   by Order   of the Curry   County   Board   of
Commissioners, all subcommittees shall consist of CARES members.
SECTION     1.24.070 Adoption and Amendment

       The bylaws and any amendments thereto, shall be adopted by a majority vote of the full
Committee, after review and comment by Members at Large.           Written notices shall be given to
the full CARES      membership     at least (5) five days prior to a vote as to any adoption or
amendment of the bylaws.