FILEDIN CURRY COUNTY                 CJ:2019-137
                                                               Renee' Kolen, County Clerk   == 95/31/2019 9:26:08 AR
                                                               Commissioners’ Journal                      13 PAGES

                    IN THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

                  IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF CURRY, OREGON

In the Matter of an Amendment

                                         ee”
to the Curry County Code

                                         ee
Adding Article One, Division Twenty             ORDINANCE NO.            { ~ D)

                                         ee
Two, Creating a Wolf Advisory

                                         ee
Committee for Curry County

                                         wee

       The Board of Commissioners for the County of Curry ordains as follows:

SECTION 1: TITLE
      This Ordinance shall be known as Ordinance    i q 7 QT        , an ordinance
amending the Curry County Code with respect to General Administration, Article One.

SECTION 2: ADOPTION
       Exhibit “A”, attached hereto and incorporated by reference, is adopted as an
amendment and new Division Twenty Two to the Curry County Code.

       Exhibit “B”, attached hereto and incorporated by reference, is adopted as
program procedures for the Wolf Advisory Committee.

       Exhibit “C”, attached hereto and incorporated   by reference, is adopted as
application for Financial Assistance

SECTION 3:_ SEVERANCE CLAUSE
       If any section, subsection, provision, clause or paragraph of this Ordinance shall
be adjudged or declared by any court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or
invalid, such judgement shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of the
Ordinance; and it is hereby expressly declared that every other section, subsection,
provision clause or paragraph of this Ordinance enacted, irrespective of the enactment
or validity of the portion thereof declared to be unconstitutional or invalid, is valid.
SECTION 4: EMERGENCY CLAUSE

       The Board of Commissioners for the County of Curry deems this Ordinance
necessary for the immediate preservation and protection of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare for Curry County and declares an emergency exits, and this
Ordinance shall be effective upon adoption.

          DATED this   272—                 dayot_   Wa 4            2019.
                               nN

                                       BOARD OF CURRY COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

                                              Z      \    \
                                          Cet SC SS
                                       Christopher Péasch) Chair

                                Aas Led
                                <"         e bold, Commissioner

First Reading:     S - 22 ~/7
Second Reading:          VON E
Emergency Adoption:       __-5 - Z2        ~/7
Effective Date:        GS-22         -(7

Attest:

  Take: T-             Bre
Recording Secretary

Reviewed as to Form:

John Hlttl, Curry County Counsel
                                          “EXHIBIT A”

                                         ARTICLE ONE

DIVISION TWENTY TWO                          WOLF ADVISORY COMMITTEE

SECTION      1.22.010   Creation of Wolf Advisory Committee

There is hereby established for Curry County a Wolf Advisory Committee (“Committee”).

SECTION      1.22.020   Membership; Terms of Office; Compensation

The Committee shall consist of seven (7) members. One (1) member shall be a Curry County
Commissioner; two (2) members shall own or manage livestock; two (2) members shall support
wolf conservation or coexistence with wolves; and, two (2) members shall have business
interests within Curry County and be selected by the other five (5) members of the Advisory
Committee.

Committee membership is a four-year term. All members shall be appointed by Order and serve
at the pleasure of the Curry County Board of Commissioners. Position numbers shall have
staggered terms so that Position One serves for one year; Position Two serves for two years; and
Position Three serves for three years; Positions Four through Seven serve for four years. After
the initial term, all positions shall be four-year terms.

Appointments shall expire on December 31“ of the appropriate year. Appointments shall be
filled as soon as possible after the first of the January in any given year. Should a vacancy occur
prior to the expiration date of any term, the vacancy shall be filled by the Board after
receiving recommendations from the Advisory Committee.

All members of the Committee shall serve without compensation.      Meeting attendance may be
by telephonic or electronic means.

SECTION 1.22.030_ Meetings
The Committee may establish regular meetings, which will be conducted pursuant to Oregon’s
Public Meetings Laws and Rules.

The Committee has the power to establish their regular meeting dates and times. Until the
Committee establishes another date and time, Committee meetings shall be the first Wednesday
of every other month at 5:00 pm. Additional meetings may be convened as long as Oregon
Public Meetings Laws and Rules are followed. At its first regular meeting the Committee shall
appoint a Chair and Vice Chair.

The Committee shall meet at least once annually.
SECTION      1.22.040   Powers and Duties

(1) The Curry County Wolf Advisory Committee shall administer the County’s Wolf
Depredation Compensation and Financial Assistance Program. The Committee shall, for the
period during which the County maintains such a program, oversee the Program pursuant to
Oregon Revised Statute (ORS) 610.150 which includes:

       (a)      Advising the County on establishing or revising procedures by which person
       applying for compensation under the Program provide evidence of the loss or injury to
       livestock or working dogs due to wolf depredation. Evidence of the loss or injury must
       include a finding by the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife or the department’ s
       designated agent that wolf depredation was the probable cause of the loss or injury.

       (b)     Advising the County on establishing or revising procedures by which persons
       applying for financial assistance under the Program provide an estimate of the potential
       cost of the livestock management techniques or nonlethal wolf deterrence techniques
       designed to discourage wolf depredation.

       (c)      Advising the County on establishing or revising procedures by which livestock
       owners and managers experiencing above expected death or injury to livestock or
       working dogs attributed to wolf depredation shall be giving priority by the Advisory
       Committee for grant monies received under the Program.

       (d)      Establishing compensation rates for death or injury to livestock or working dogs
       attributable to wolf depredation that are based on fair market value. Compensation for
       death or injury of livestock or working dogs takes priority over compensation for missing
       livestock.

       (e)      Within an area of known wolf activity, establishing compensation rates for
       missing livestock attributable to wolf depredation. Compensation for missing livestock
       may be at a lower value than compensation for death or injury as allowed in Oregon
       Administrative Rules (OAR) 603-019-001 5(i)(c) at the discretion of the Advisory
       Committee.

       (f)     Advising the County on establishing eligibility requirements for compensation
       that ensures, contingent upon available funds, that:

                1.      In order to consider awarding any compensation for death or injury to
                livestock or working dogs, or missing livestock and working dogs attributed to
                wolf depredation, the Advisory Committee must determine that the person did not
               unreasonably or purposefully create circumstances that attract wolves or
               encourage conflict between wolves and livestock or workings dogs, excluding
               accepted normal husbandry and grazing activities.

               2,      Compensation for documented death or injury to livestock or working
               dogs that is attributed to wolf depredation that occurred outside an area of known
               wolf activity shall be compensated regardless of the preexistence of wolf
               deterrence techniques.

               3!      Compensation for documented death or injury to livestock or working
               dogs that is attributable to wolf depredation that occurred within an area of
               known wolf activity shall be compensated if owners have demonstrated
               implementation of best management practices to deter wolves including
               reasonable non-lethal methods when practicable.

               4.     Compensation for missing livestock or working dogs that is attributed to
               wolf depredation that occurred within an area of known wolf activity may be
               granted if owners document that other possible causes for their animals to be
               missing, not including wolf depredation, have been eliminated    for the number of
               missing animals they are claiming.

               5:      Compensation for the cost of livestock management techniques or
               nonlethal wolf deterrence techniques designed to limit wolf/livestock interactions
               and discourage wolf depredation of livestock.

(2) The Curry County Wolf Advisory Committee is to provide advice and guidance to the Board
of County Commissioners on issues related to wolves, including interaction of wolves and
livestock operations in the County.

(3) Other powers and duties to further the purposes for which the Committee was created.

SECTION 1.22.050       Staffing and Administration of Committee Business

The Community Development Department, Planning Division, shall administer the activities of
the Committee. The Planning Director or their designee shall serve as administrative officer for
the Committee. Planning Division staff shall prepare all Committee agenda and reports, publish
notice and record all minutes of the meetings.

The Planning Director shall be responsible for updating Board of Commissioner Office with the
status of Committee membership.
                                               EXHIBIT B

                                              COUNTY
                                              Commissioner

                          COUNTY WOLF ADVISORY COMMITTEE

            PROCEDURES FOR THE REVIEW OF WOLF COMPENSATION AND
                     FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE APPLICATIONS

By authority of Board Order No.             , the County Wolf Advisory
Committee (Advisory Committee) shall oversee the Curry County Wolf
Depredation Compensation and Financial Assistance Program. The following
procedures will govern applications seeking compensation and/or financial
assistance under the Oregon Department of Agriculture (ODA) Wolf Depredation
Compensation Grant program, as they may be amended from time to time.

1.   Applications   must     be   submitted         on     Advisory      Committee-approved           application
     forms along with any additional information that may be required.

2.   Incomplete or illegible applications will not be accepted.

3.   Only an original, “hard copy” of the application will be accepted                          and     must be
     received   in the County Administrator's Office no later than 5:00 p.m. on the date
     shown on the application.

4.   All applications are public records as the term is defined in Oregon Revised Statute
     192.005 et seq and shall be open for public inspection to the degree permitted by
     law.

5.   Applications shall be reviewed at a properly noticed meeting of the Wolf Advisory
     Committee. The applicant shall be notified of the meeting date/time/location and is
     encouraged to attend the meeting, but the presence or absence of the applicant
     shall not be a factor used in awarding grant funds.

6.   Applications   for    compensation       for        dead   or    injured   qualified   animals     shall   be
     prioritized over compensation for missing animals as described herein.

7.   Applications submitted by the deadline shown on the application will be reviewed in
     January each year. Any application received after the deadline, due to a
     depredation which occurred after the deadline and prior to the end of the grant
     period, will be handled on a case by case basis.
8.    After all applications for compensation for dead or injured qualified animals have
      been reviewed and a determination made, all such applications for missing animals
      shall be eligible to receive a portion of unexpended           grant funds,   pro rata by the
      individual missing qualified animal.

9.    The burdens of proof and persuasion lie with the applicant.

10.   The   Wolf   Advisory   Committee      shall   review   each     individual   claim,   request
      supporting   documentation   (including    reports   by the Oregon      Department     of Fish
      and Wildlife), and make a final determination as to the compensation due to the
      applicant, subject to Curry County receiving compensation funds.

11.   By majority vote, the Wolf Advisory Committee will have full authority to alter any of
      the payment guidelines shown below, depending on individual circumstances.

12.   The action of the Wolf Advisory Committee is final.

Compensation rates for confirmed depredation of any domestic species will be
determined annually by the Advisory Committee. The Advisory Committee will take into
account the market rates reported during the week of October 1* with compensation
rates effective for the following grant year, which runs from February to February. The
approved compensation rates set for February 2019 through February 2020 are:
   e Horses - $1,500
       Dogs (all types) - $1,000
       Sheep (mature) - $200/refer to sale prices
       Lamb - $200/refer to sale prices
       Calf (up to 650 Ibs.) - $1,000
       Yearling (up to 1,000 Ibs.) - $1,200
       Cow (mature) - $1,200
       Bull - $2,500
       Llama - $100
       Goats (all ages) - $200
       Swine cannot be compensated for

The Wolf Advisory Committee will make a final decision on individual compensation
depending on documentation provided by applicants. It is expected that producers will
be eligible for full compensation for losses at contracted prices, historical or actual pen
of livestock sold, or any other mechanism which producers can justify to the Advisory
Committee.

It is the intent of Curry County to pay full market price for classes of animals that have
been purchased with unique character and abilities. The applicant will need to provide
documentation for these special qualities.      Exotic species will be paid with
documentation provided by the owner.

If an animal is treated, but subsequently dies, the cost of treatment will be additive to
the compensation provided for a lost animal.         If the animal is treated, recovers, and is
ultimately sold, compensation will be calculated according to the value received for sale
of non-injured animals in the same age class if higher, plus the treatment cost.
Mtl
To further clarify compensation for missing livestock, above normal:

1.    Livestock should be counted before turnout. Suitable documentation would be BLM/Forest
      Service turnout records and/or third party verification. The count at the end of the year will
      be deducted from the original count to show any loss.

      The   livestock owner   must demonstrate   that all measures   have   been   exhausted   to find
      missing livestock before compensation will be considered.

      The Wolf Advisory Committee     has determined that a three percent, natural death loss is
      an appropriate starting point to consider when determining missing livestock losses. If the
      applicant can substantiate a different percentage, the Wolf Advisory Committee may make
      an adjustment based on sufficient evidence.

      Decreases in livestock body condition and potential decreases in conception rates will not
      be compensated at this time. If further research is forthcoming from studies conducted
      which offer reasonable proof and statistics for potential losses for body condition         and
      conception rates, the Wolf Advisory Committee will re-evaluate in the future.

      All applications for funding must be received by the date identified on the application. This
      will give the Wolf Advisory Committee time to compile, gather evidence and apply for
      compensation funding from the State of Oregon or the Federal government.
                                       Exhibit C
                       CURRY COUNTY WOLF COMPENSATION AND
                          FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE APPLICATION
         Review Procedures for the Review of Compensation and Financial Assistance Applications

                                 Applications must be received by [DATE]
   (For depredations that occur after [ABOVE DATE], applications must be received by [ALTERNATIVE
                                                  DATE])

                                   Applications may be mailed or delivered to:
                                 Curry County [SELECT DEPARTMENT] Office

Compensation is subject to the availability of funds. There is no guarantee that compensation will be paid or that
compensation will be paid at 100 percent of the level requested. Compensation decisions made by the Curry
County Wolf Advisory Committee are final. The completed        application and supporting information become      part of
the public record and are subject to public record requests. Applicants are not eligible for compensation for losses
or for non-lethal control practices if the applicant has received compensation from other sources (including
insurance) or if the applicant has taken the Oregon tax credit for the same losses or the cost of adopted practices.

PART |
                                           APPLICANT INFORMATION

Name:                                                        Contact Phone Number:

Mailing Address:
City:                                                           State:                       Zip Code:

Email Address:

The applicant’s signature verifies the information in this application, including supporting information, is correct and
the applicant has not received compensation from other sources, no claimed the Oregon tax credit for losses or
cost of practices claimed in this application. The applicant's signature also verifies the applicant did not
unreasonably or purposefully create circumstances that attracted wolves or encouraged conflict between wolves
and livestock or working dogs, excluding accept normal husbandry and grazing activities.

Date:                                              Applicant's Signature:

Continue to Part Il Next Page

Page 1 of 5
PART Il
                              USFWS   / ODFW Consultation Information

Have you consulted with U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) or Oregon Department of Fish
and Wildlife (ODFW) on mitigation measures to limit wolfilivestock interaction?         Yes
     No

If yes,

Name of USFW or ODFW person consulted:
Date(s) of consultation(s):
What measures were recommended?

What measures were implemented?

USFS / ODFW Verification
USFW / ODFW Signature:                                                  Date Signed:

Printed Name:

Continue to Part Ill

Page 2 of 5
PART Ill
           Compensation Requested for Non-Lethal Methods to Limit Wolf-Livestock
                              Interaction Implemented in Previous Year

Compensation requested for the following:

         Bone Pile Removal/Burial                                        Fladry
         Range Rider                                                     Livestock Guardian Dogs
         Other (Identify and Describe)

Date and specific location of practice or activity:

Is this location in an Area of Known Wolf Activity (AKWA) as defined by ODFW?
        Yes             No

Amount requested for each activity and location:

Additional comments:

Attach documentation of completed practices (including photos as appropriate), copies of
receipts, copies of a journal or log of range rider activities, and other documentation confirming
expenses (attach additional pages as necessary).

Continue to Part IV

Page 3 of 5
PART IV
              Compensation Requested for Confirmed Depredations and Missing
                                      Livestock in Previous Year

Section 1 — Compensation Requested for Confirmed Depredation(s)

Date and specific location of depredation:

Is this location designated by ODFW as an AKWA?                  Yes                    No
if yes, have you performed best management practices within the AKWA?                   Yes           No
If best management practices have       been    performed,   please    list and   provide documentation    of the
practices you have implemented:

Has the loss or injury been confirmed by ODFW?             Yes                 No
If yes, please attach the following documentation: ODFW Depredation Report, pictures, correspondence,
and any other pertinent information.

Number, description, and value of dead livestock or dead livestock working dogs:

Were these animals insured?             Yes                    No
If yes, please specify the amount per animal:

Total amount of compensation requested for livestock/dogs lost to depredation:

       Attach Pages as Necessary for Additional Information, Documentation, or Comments

Page 4 of 5
Part IV (cont’d.)
Section 2 — Compensation Requested for Missing Livestock

Date range unconfirmed depredation occurred resulting in missing livestock:

Location of pasture(s) or range where livestock went missing:

Is this location designated by ODFW as an AKWA?                    Yes                        No
If yes, have you performed best management practices within the AKWA?                         Yes          No
If best    management   practices   have   been   performed,   please    list and   provide    documentation    of the
practices you have implemented:

Number, description, and value of missing livestock:

Describe measures taken to locate missing livestock:

What is the normal, average, or historical number of missing livestock for this pasture?

Do you have written records to document the historical level of missing livestock?

Were these animals insured?                Yes                   No
If yes, please specify amount per animal:

Total amount of compensation requested for missing livestock:

          Attach Pages as Necessary for Additional Information, Documentation, or Comments

Page 5 of 5