ARTICLE SIX

DIVISION SEVEN                 JEFFERSON BEHAVIORAL HEALTH

SECTION 6.07.010               DEFINITIONS

(1)       "Entity" means Jefferson Behavioral Health.

(2)       "Services" means the provision and administration of mental health services
          together with ancillary services, including labor, goods, personal services and
          incidentals.

(3)       "Service Area" means the geographical area of the participating counties.

SECTION 6.07.020              FORMATION OF JEFFERSON BEHAVIORAL HEALTH,
                              AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL ENTITY

The Curry County Board of Commissioners hereby ratifies the formation of an
intergovernmental entity pursuant to the terms of ORS Chapter 190. The newly formed
entity is to be called Jefferson Behavioral Health.   It is the intention of the Curry County
Board of Commissioners to enter into an intergovernmental agreement with Coos,
Douglas, Jackson, Josephine and Klamath Counties which will provide for the formation
of the Jefferson Behavioral Health and set out the duties, powers and functions of the
entity.

SECTION 6.07.030              EFFECTIVE        DATE       OF    JNTERGOVERNMENTAL
                              AGREEMENT

The effective date of the intergovernmental agreement for formation of Jefferson
Behavioral Health is       DuwE        1S                      , 1997.

SECTION 6.07.040               PUBLIC   PURPOSES   FOR     WHICH                        THE
                               INTERGOVERNMENTAL ENTITY IS FORMED

The public purposes for which the intergovernmental entity is formed are as follows:

(1)       To create an intergovernmental entity that will administer and provide mental
          health services on behalf of the parties to the agreement;

Page #1
(2)   To provide and promote accessibility to mental health benefits and continuity of
      care for all consumers through comprehensive community mental health
      programs;

(3)   To preserve the integrity of community mental health programs while obtaining
      the economic benefits of cooperation among counties, the Mental Health and
      Developmental Disabilities Services Division of Oregon Department of Human
       Resources      ("Division") and the Office of Medical Assistance Programs of the
       Oregon Department of Human Resources ("OMAP");

(4)   To connect the Oregon Health Plan and community mental health programs in
       a manner that gives full force and effect to ORS 414.705 to 414.750 and ORS
       430.610 to 430.685;

(5)   To administer regional Medicaid funds in ways that preserve and enhance local
       management and operation of community mental programs;

(6)    To coordinate and integrate mental health services with physical health care
       services in the Service Area;

(7)    To promote accountability, continuity and efficiency in the use, allocation and
       investment of public funds for mental health services;

(8)    To   provide     a regional   management       information     system     for planning       and
       developing mental health services in the Service Area; and

(9)    To promote the involvement of county commissioners, local mental health
       advisory committees, consumers and advocates in development and delivery of
       mental health services.

SECTION 6.07.050              POWERS, DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS                            OF JEFFERSON
                              BEHAVIORAL HEALTH

Jefferson Behavioral Health shall have the following powers, functions and duties:

(1)    The provisions and administration of mental health services together with
       ancillary services, including labor, goods, personal services and incidentals within
       the Service Area. Each party to the intergovernmental agreement forming the
       Jefferson   Behavioral    Health,   reserves   exclusive     control    over    these   Services
       provided by its community mental health program within its county boundary

Page #2
          other than Oregon Health Plan Services. However, Jefferson Behavioral Health
          may provide such Services pursuant to an agreement with a particular party.

(2)    The      power   to enter into   and      administer   the Oregon      Health     Plan   Service
      Agreement, other contracts and subcontracts for Services, and employment
      contracts.

(3)       Performance     of   any   functions      and   activities   that   any      party    to   the
          intergovernmental    agreement      forming Jefferson Behavioral Health has the
      authority to perform with respect to the provision of Services.

(4)       Performance of all lawful acts that are necessary to fulfill the purposes set above.

Page #3