ARTICLE EIGHT

DIVISION ONE  IMPOSING TRANSIENT LODGING TAX

SECTION 8.01.010  STATEMENT OF  PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY
This Division is enacted pursuant to Curry County Transient Lodging Tax Authorizing Ordinance;
Ordinance No. 19-01. The purpose of this Division is  to codify the imposition of the tax enacted
by Ordinance pursuant to Oregon Revised Statutes, Chapter 320.

SECTION 8.01.020  DEFINITIONS
Except where the context otherwise requires, the following definitions from ORS 320.300 given
in this section govern the construction of this ordinance.
1. “Board” means the Board of C ounty Commissioners of Curry County.
2. “Collection reimbursement charge” m eans the amount a transient lodging tax
collector may retain as reimbursement for the costs incurred by the transient
lodging tax collector in co llecting and reporting a tran sient lodging tax and in
maintaining transient lodging tax records.
3. “Conference center” means a facility that”
a. Is owned or partially owned by a uni t of local government, a governmental
agency or a nonprofit organization; and
b. Meets the current membership criteria  of the International Association of
Conference Centers.
4. “Convention center” means a new or improved facility that:
a. Is capable of attracting and acco mmodating conventions and trade shows
from international, national and re gional markets requiring exhibition
space, ballroom space, meeting rooms and any other associated space,
including without limitation banquet facilities, loading areas and lobby and
registration areas;
b. Has a total meeting room and ballr oom space between one-third and one-
half of the total size of the center’s exhibition space;
c. Generates a majority of its business income from tourists;
d. Has a room-block relationship w ith the local lodging industry; and
e. Is owned by a unit of local government , a governmental agency or non profit
organization.
5. “County transient lodging tax” means th e tax imposed under this Division.
6. “Person” means any individual, firm, partne rship, joint venture, association, social
club, fraternal organization, fra ternity, sorority, public or  private dormitory, joint
stock company, corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate,
or any other group, or combination acting as a unit, or other organization or entity.
7. “Tax Administrator” means the Board of  County Commissioners of Curry County,
or the person it so designates.
8. “Tourism” means economic activity resulting from tourists.
9. “Tourism promotion” means any of the following activities:
a. Advertising, publicizing or distri buting information for the purpose of
attracting and welcoming tourists;
b. Conducting strategic planning and resear ch necessary to stimulate future
tourism development;
c. Operating tourism promotion agencies; and
d. Marketing special events and festiv als designed to attract tourists.
10. “Tourism-related facility” means:
a. A conference center, convention cent er or visitor information center; and
b. Other improved real property that has a useful life of ten (10) or more years
and has a substantial purpose of supporting tourism or accommodating
tourist activities.
11. “Tourist” means a person who, for business,  pleasure, recreation or participation in
events related to the arts, heritage or culture, travels from the community in which
that person is a resident to a different community that is separate, distinct from and
unrelated to the person’s community of residence, and that trip:
a. Requires the person to travel more th an fifty (50) miles from the community
of residence; or
b. Includes an overnight stay.
12. “Transient Lodging” or “Trans ient Lodging Facility” means:
a. Hotel, motel and Inn dwelling units that are used for temporary overnight
human occupancy;
b. Spaces used for parking recreationa l vehicles or erecting tents during
periods of human occupancy; or
c. Houses, cabins, condominiums, apartmen t units, or other dwelling units, or
portions of any of these dwelling units  that are used for temporary human
occupancy.
13. “Transient Lodging Intermediary” means a person other than a transient lodging
provider that facilitates the retail sale of transient lodging and charges for
occupancy of the transient lodging.
14. “Transient Lodging Provider” means a pe rson that furnishes transient lodging.
15. “Transient Lodging Tax Coll ector” means a transient lodging provider or a transient
lodging intermediary.
16. “Visitor Information Center” means a building or a portion of a building, the main
purpose of which is to distribute or disseminate information to tourists.

SECTION 8.01.030 IMPOSITION OF TAX
8.01.031  Imposition and Rate of Tax
A tax of ten percent (10%) is im posed on any rent or considerati on rendered for the sale, service
or furnishing of transient lodging.
8.01.032  Computation of Tax
The tax must be computed on the total retail price, including all charges other than taxes, paid by
a person for occupancy of the transient lodging. Th e total retail price pai d, including all charges
other than taxes, paid by a pers on for occupancy of the transient l odging that is pa rt of a travel
package, may be determined by reasonable and verifiable standards from books and records kept
in the ordinary course of the transient lodging tax collector’s business.
The tax shall be collected by th e transient lodging tax collector that receives the rent or
consideration rendered for occupancy of the transient lodging.
8.01.033  Transient Lodging Tax Collector Reimbursement
The transient lodging tax collector may withhold a collection reimbursement charge of five percent
(5%) of the amount collected pursuant to this section.
8.01.034  Applicability
The tax imposed by this Division shall apply to all transient l odging in the unincorporated areas
of Curry County; it shall not apply to transient lodging within incorporated cities.
SECTION 8.01.040  EXEMPTIONS
The following are exempt from the County TLT tax:
1. A dwelling unit in a hospital,  health care facility, long-te rm care facility or any
other residential facility that is licensed, registered or certifies by the Department
of Human Services or the Oregon Health Authority.
2. A dwelling unit in a facil ity providing treatment for drug and alcohol abuse or
providing mental health treatment.
3. A dwelling unit that is used by members of the general public for a temporary
human occupancy for fewer than thirty (30) days per year.
4. A dwelling unit, the consideration for wh ich is funded through a contract with a
government agency and the purpose of which is to provide emergency or temporary
shelter.
5. A dwelling unit at a nonpr ofit youth or church cam p, nonprofit conference center
or other nonprofit facility.
6. A dwelling unit that is leased or othe rwise occupied by the same person for a
consecutive period of thirty (30) days or more during the year. The requirements of
this subsection are satisfied even if th e physical dwelling unit changes during the
consecutive period, if:
a. All dwelling units occupied ar e within the same facility; and
b. The person paying consideration for th e transient lodging is the same person
throughout the consecutive period.

SECTION 8.01.050  USE OF REVENUE
Per ORS 320.350,
1. At least seventy percent (70%) of ne t revenue from a new or increased local
transient lodging tax shall be used to:
a. Fund tourism promotion or t ourism-related facilities; and
b. Finance or refinance the debt of tourism-related facilities and pay
reasonably administrative costs incurred in financing or refinancing that
debt, provided that:
i. The net revenue may be used for administrative costs only if the unit of
local government provides a collection reimbursement charge; and
ii. Upon retirement of the debt, the unit of local government reduces the tax by
the amount by which the tax was increased to finance or refinance the debt.
2. No more than thirty percent (30%) of net revenue from a new or increased local
transient lodging tax may be used to fund other County services.

SECTION 8.01.060  IMPLEMENTING  ORDINANCE AUTHORIZATION
The Board may, be separate ordinance, promulgate  additional definitions, rules and regulations
necessary or convenient for the administration, collection, refund, and enforcement of this
Division.