ARTICLE TWO

DIVISION SEVEN               RECYCLING
SECTION 2.07.010             FINDINGS
(1)    |The Board of Curry County        Commissioners     (Board) is mindful of the
benefits of recycling which include reduction of the waste stream and
conversation of resources by re-using material for the purposes for which it was
originally intended, or by recycling material which cannot be directly re-used;
an
(2)     In order to develop a recycling program, the Board appointed a_ Curry
County Recycling Committee consisting of a cross section of Curry County
citizens representing various interests; and
(3)    The   Curry County     Recycling Committee    upon     meeting     on    numerous
occasions, has made recommendations to the Board in a report dated May 17,
1990, and these recommendations have been reviewed by Curry County’s solid
waste consultant; and

(4)    The Board is desirous         of implementing many            of the recycling
committee’s recommendations          through  a county-wide          ordinance under
authority of ORS 203.035.
SECTION 2.07.020             POLICY AND GOALS

(1)   It is the policy of the Board to aggressively promote recycling within
Curry County.
(2)    From time to time the Board will set recycling goals.

SECTION 2.07.030             DEFINITIONS
The following definitions shall apply to this Division:
(1)    "Board" means the Board of Curry County Commissioners.

(2)    "Cardboard" means corrugated cardboard or kraft paper.
(3)    "Commercial Waste Generator" means a public or private corporation,
an unincorporated association, a partnership, or a government body, But not a
human being or individual household, and it includes both customers and non-
customers of the service provider.
(4)    "Office   Paper"   means   clean white or colored    bond,     book,    and   ledger
paper, white or colored notebook paper, white or colored envelopes (without
 abels or plastic windows), computer paper, file folders, manila envelopes, and
          r
NCR (carbonless)    paper.
(5)    "Person(s)"   means   (a) human    being, a household,       a public or private

Page   l
corporation,        an unincorporated       association,     a partnership,     or a government
body.

(6)      "Service     Provider"    means    and   includes     the collection    franchisee   who
provides the required recycling services.
(7)      “Yard Waste” means vegetative material such as grass clippings, weeds,
leaves, and wood waste.

SECTION 2.07.040                   ASSIGNMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY
The responsibility for providing the minimum opportunity to recycle shall be
as follows:
(1)     | The Service Provider shall make available curbside recycling within the
Brookings urban growth boundary to all residential solid waste collection
customers who request this service. Recyclables shall be collected at least once
each month and che service             provided shall be consistent with the requirements
of ORS 459.165(1)(a) and              ORS 459.200(6).

(2)      |The Service Provider shall maintain a site for collection source separated
recyclable material at the transfer stations or disposal sites that serve each of
the County's populavon centers. Currently the recycling centers are located at
the Brookings Transfer Station, Wridge Creek Transfer Station, Nesika Beach
Transfer Station, Agness Transfer Station and Port Orford Landfill. In the
near future the eorling center at Wridge Creek will be closed.
       Each of the recycling centers shall accept properly prepared waste oil in
sealed unbreakable containers, cardboard, glass, newsprint, metal, plastic, and
wood and yard waste, white goods, tires, and other large recyclables. Large
loads can be directed to a suitable site.

(3)      The Service Provider shall offer 20-gallon and 15-gallon can collection
service at a lower cost than the ordinary 30-gallon can service to promote
recycling.
(4)      Education and promotion for recycling shall be a shared responsibility
between the county and the service provider. It is the intent of the county to
enlist the aid of volunteers, civic service organizations, educational institutions,
fraternal organizations, media, businesses, state local and federal government,
and others in this program.
SECTION 2.07.050                   MANDATORY          RECYCLING COMPONENTS

(1).   _Any commercial waste generator who generates in excess of 80 pounds
or 2.75 cubic feet of office paper per month shall separate the paper from the
other waste and dispose of it separately.
(2)      Any commercial waste           generator who        generates in excess of 80 pounds
of cardboard waste per month               shall separate the cardboard from other waste
and dispose of it separately.
(3)      Any   person who         generates in excess of ten pounds           of yard waste per

Page     2
month shall separate such waste from the other waste                and dispose     of it
separately.
(4)    The Service Provider shall not knowingly collect solid waste which is not
source separated as required in Subsections 1-3 above. Prior thereto, it may
issue warnings for such known violations.
(5)    When     solid waste is not picked up by the Service Provider under the
terms of this section, the Service Provider may still charge for the collection
service which has been subscribed to and would have been provided for, but for
the enforcement of the violation.
(6)    The    Service   Provider   is authorized   to charge   for collection   of office
pape and cardboard from commercial waste generators at rates to be set by the
 oard.

Page   3