BEFORE THE BOARD OF CURRY COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

                IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF CURRY, OREGON

In the Matter of the Adoption
of a Measure 49 Vested Rights
Ordinance to Determine Whether                 ORDINANCE NO, O3-CL
an Applicant has a Common
Law Vested Right to Complete
and Continue a Use Allowed by

                                                                                  AdOD
a Measure 37 Waiver

       The Board of Commissioners for the County of Curry ordains as
follows:

SECTION 1 TITLE

         This ordinance shall be known as Ordinance    08:02   , an ordinance
amending the Curry County Code to provide a Measure 49 vesting rights
section.

SECTION 2 FINDINGS

A.       On November 2, 2004, the voters of the State of Oregon approved
         Ballot Measure 37 which added provisions to the Oregon Revised
         Statutes (ORS) Chapter 197 to require, under certain
         circumstances, payment of just compensation to landowners if a
         government land use regulation reduced property value. In lieu of
         payment for just compensation,   Ballot Measure 37 authorized the
         governing body of a local government to modify, remove, or not
         apply the land use regulation. (Such actions are generally referred
         to as “Measure 37 waivers.”)

         The Board of Curry County Commissioners approved multiple
         Measure 37 claims in lieu of payment of just compensation.

                                                                    HLED WITH
                                                                    FEB 21 2008
Page 1
                                                               CURRY COUNTY CLERK
C.    In June of 2007 the Legislative Assembly referred House Bill 3540 to
      the voters. House Bill 3540 substantially amended ORS 197.352.
      House Bill 3540 was considered by the voters in the election of
      November 6, 2007 as Ballot Measure 49. The voters approved
      Measure 49, and Measure 49 became effective December 6, 2007.

D.    Section 5 of House Bill 3540 provides as follows with respect to
      development of property in accordance with Measure 37 relief:

             SECTION 5. A claimant that filed a claim under ORS 197.352
      on or before the date of adjournment sine die of the 2007 regular
      session of the Seventy- fourth Legislative Assembly is entitled to
      just compensation as provided in ...

             (3) a waiver issued before the effective date of this 2007 Act
      to the extent that the claimant’s use of the property complies with
      the waiver and the claimant has a common law vested right on the
      effective date of this 2007 Act to complete and continue the use
      described in the waiver.

E.    The State of Oregon has determined that a local government may
      determine vesting rights under Section 5(3) of House Bill 3540 for
      those Measure 37 waivers the local government issued. Thus, it is
      appropriate to establish a process for Curry County’s determination
      whether a “claimant’s use of the property complies with the waiver
      and the claimant has a common law vested right on the effective
      date of this 2007 Act to complete and continue the use described in
      the waiver.”

SECTION 3 ADOPTION

       Exhibit “A”, attached hereto and incorporated by this reference, is
adopted as an amendment to the Curry County Code; to wit, as a new
Article One Section 11.

SECTION 4 SEVERANCE CLAUSE

        if any section, subsection, provision, clause or paragraph of this
Ordinance shall be adjudged or declared by any court of competent
jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or invalid, such judgment shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Ordinance. It is
expressly declared that every other section, subsection, provision clause
or paragraph of this Ordinance, irrespective of the enactment or validity
of the portion thereof declared to be unconstitutional or invalid, is valid.

Page 2
SECTION 5 EMERGENCY CLAUSE

          This ordinance being necessary for the immediate preservation of
the health, safety and welfare of the community, an emergency is
declared to exist and this ordinance shall take effect upon its passage.
                             a
          apoptep THIS     _/7 _ day of February, 2008.

                              BOARD      OF CURRY   COUNTY   COMMISSIONERS

                              Georgia    Yee Nowlin,    i

                           Ade La Bonteé, Vice Chair
                          U/
                               —        ABSENT      —
                              Marlyn Schafer, Commissioner

Attest:

tice K. Cte
Recording Secretary

Approved as to Form:

 (| ; Honea        lab)
M. Gerard Herbage
Curry County Legal Counsel

First Reading:      xr/4/o8
Second Reading: #/4/28
Emergency Adoption: °/4/od
Effective Date: o//4/4

Page 3
                                EXHIBIT “A”

                             ARTICLE ONE

DIVISION ELEVEN          MEASURE 49 VESTED RIGHTS

SECTION 1.11.010         AUTHORITY

      This division is enacted pursuant to ORS 203.035.

SECTION 1.411.020        PURPOSE

       The purpose of this division is to establish a procedure for
determining whether a property owner who was granted a waiver from
land use regulations pursuant to ORS 197.352 before it was amended by
the adoption of Ballot Measure 49, enacted by the voters on November 6,
2007, has a common law vested right to complete and continue the use
described in the waiver.

SECTION 1.11.030         DEFINITIONS

      For purposes of this division, the following definitions apply:

(1)   “Applicant” means a person who has obtained Measure 37 relief
      from the Board and the State of Oregon, and who has applied to the
      Public Services Department for a Final County Vesting Decision.

(2)   “Application” means an application form created by the Public
      Services Director and filed with the Public Services Department by
      an applicant for a Final County Vesting Decision.

(3)   “Board” means the Board of Curry County Commissioners.

(4)   “Completed Application” means an application deemed complete by
      the Director of Public Services or his designee.

(5)   “Final County Vesting Decision” means a final written decision by
      the Board on an application that the applicant does or does not
      have a vested right to continue and complete a use under a Board
      order granting the applicant Measure 37 relief.

Page 1
SECTION 1.11.040          APPLICATION

(1)   Any person who wishes to complete or continue any use of property
      allowed pursuant to a Measure 37 waiver shall file an application for
      a Final County Vesting Decision as required by Measure 49. Until
      the Board’s determination of vested rights has been made, permits
      shall be issued.

(2)   Acompleted application shall include the following information:

      (a)    Name, address, telephone number and signature of the
      owner filing the application.

      (b)    Acopy of the conveyance document that shows the
      applicant’s interest in the subject real property and inciudes a legal
      description and physical address of the property.

      (c)    Copies of both Curry County’s and the State of Oregon’s
      orders approving a waiver for the subject property.

      (dq)   Acopy of any land use approvals and construction permits
      issued that allow development of the subject property.

      (e)    identification of expenditures made to.develop the subject
      property and the dates of those expenditures.

      (f)    A written statement describing how the applicant’s use of the
      subject property is consistent with the waiver, and how the
      applicant has a common law vested right to complete or continue
      the use described in the waiver.

      (g)    An application fee, if any, if set by Board Resolution.

SECTION 1.11.050             PROCESS

(1)   An applicant shall submit applications to the Public Services
      Department with the information required in Section 1.11.040
      above. The Public Services Director or his designee is empowered
      to determine when the application becomes a completed
      application and may require additional information beyond that
      originally submitted when necessary to address the criteria to
      establish   a common    law vested right. The applicant is responsible
      for the completeness and accuracy of all information submitted with
      the application and all of the supporting documentation.

Page 2
(2)   The Public Services Director or his designee will prepare a staff
      report that describes the vested rights application, sets forth
      pertinent facts, and makes a recommendation on how the
      application should be resolved. The Public Services Department
      shall forward the staff report to the Board, County Legal Counsel,
      and the applicant, and make it available to others upon request in
      accordance with the County’s public record policy.

(3)   |The Board shall make the Final County Vesting Decision as outlined
      in Section 1.11.060 below. The Board will exercise reasonable
      efforts to make a timely decision on a completed application.

SECTION 1.11.060         PUBLIC HEARING

(1)   |The Board shall conduct a public hearing on the application to make
      a Final County Vesting Decision.

(2)   |The Board shall consider the Public Service Director’s (or his
      designee’s) recommendation and all documents, evidence and
      testimony in the record.

(3)   In determining whether the applicant has a vested right to continue
      and to complete a use allowed under a Board order granting
      Measure 37 relief, the Board shall consider the following factors
      based upon evidence submitted in the application:

      (a)    |The amount of money spent on developing the use in relation
      to the actual cost of establishing the use.

      (6)   The good faith of the property owner.

      (c) | Whether the property owner had notice of the proposed
      change in law before beginning development.

      (d)   Whether the improvements could be used for other uses that
      are allowed under the new law.

      (e)   The kind of use, location and cost of the development.

      (f)   Whether the owner’s acts rise beyond mere contemplated
      use or preparation, such as the leveling of land, boring test holes, or
      preliminary negotiations with contractors or architects.

      (g)   Other relevant factors.

Page 3
(4)   | The Board shal! enter an order determining whether an applicant’s
        use of the subject property complies with the waiver and whether
        applicant had a common law vested right on December 6, 2007, to
       complete and continue the use described in the waiver.

SECTION 1.11.070            NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARINGS

(1)    Notice of a public hearing under this division shall be mailed to the
       following not less than seven days prior to a scheduled hearing:

       (a)   The applicant.

       (b)   The Department of Land Conservation and Development.

       (c)    Owners of real property located within 500 feet of the
       property that is the subject to the Final County Vesting Decision as
       those owners are identified by existing records in the Curry County
       Assessor’s Office.

(2)    Notice shall also be posted on the Commissioners’ Bulletin Board in
       the Courthouse Annex and E Mailed to the media at least seven days
       prior to the hearing.

(3)    The notice shail include a brief summary of the Public Service
       Director’s report.

(4)    The failure of any person to receive notice of a public hearing shall
       not affect or invalidate a proceeding under this division.

SECTION 1.11.080            NOTICE OF FINAL COUNTY VESTING DECISION

       Not later than five (5) working days after the Board has made and
signed a Final County Vesting Decision, the Public Services Department
shall provide notice of the decision by first class mail to the persons
named in this subsection:

(1)    The Applicant.

(2)    The Department of Land Conservation and Development.

(3)    Owners of real property located within 500 feet of the property that
       is subject to the Final County Vesting Decision as those owners are
       identified by existing records in the Curry County Assessor’s Office.

Page 4
(4)   Persons who testified before the Board, or who submitted written
      evidence, comments or arguments into the record before the
      Board.

SECTION 1.11.090          JUDICIAL REVIEW OF FINAL COUNTY VESTING
                          DECISION

(1)   A Final County Vesting Decision of the Board made under this
      division is not a land use decision subject to review by the Land Use
      Board of Appeals.

(2)   A Final County Vesting Decision of the Board made under this
      division is subject to review by the Curry County Circuit Court ina
      Writ of Review proceeding filed under Oregon Revised Statutes
      Chapter 34 by an Applicant or a person adversely affected by a
      Final County Vesting Decision.

(3)   Judicial review of a Final County Vesting Decision by the Board is:

      (a)     Limited to the evidence in the record before the Board at the
      time it made and signed a Final County Vesting Decision.

      (b)    Available only for issues that are raised before the Board with
      sufficient specificity to afford the Board and Applicant an
      opportunity to respond.

SECTION 1.11.100          EFFECT OF VESTED RIGHTS DETERMINATION
                          ON SUBSEQUENT OWNERS

      A Final County Vesting Decision by the Board under this ordinance
shall apply to a future owner or otherwise run with the land to the fullest
extent allowed by law when the Final County Vesting Decision determines
that:

(1)   Anapplicant’s use of the subject property complies with the
      Measure 37 waiver issued by the Board; and

(2)   The applicant has a common law vested right as of December 6,
      2007, to complete and continue the use described in the waiver.

Page 5