FILEDIN CURRY COUNTY                CJ:2023-17
                                                              Renee’ Kolen, County Clerk   01/12/2023 2:47:26 PM
                                                              Commissioners’ Journal                    14 PAGE

                          IN THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

                         IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF CURRY, OREGON

In   the     Matter          of    an    Ordinance   )
Amending the Curry County Code,                      )   ORDINANCENO. QD-O\
Article    Six,     Division      Six   (Emergency   )
Management)                                          )

The Curry County Board of Commissioners hereby ordains as follows:

SECTION           1: TITLE

This Ordinance shall be known as Ordinance   OD-O\|       , an ordinance amending the Curry
County Code with respect to the Emergency Management Code, Article Six, Division Six,

SECTION 2: PURPOSE
It is the policy of the State of Oregon that preparations for emergencies and governmental
responsibility for responding to emergencies be placed at the local government level. Pursuant to
State statute, the executive officer or governing body of each county or city is responsible for the
emergency services system or emergency management agency within the respective jurisdiction.
It is the purpose of this ordinance to comply with these State requirements and to set out the
procedures for emergency response so that the County is better able to protect the health and
welfare of its citizens. The Curry County Emergency Management Director is appointed as the
Emergency Program Manager to administer the Emergency Department and Program.

The authority to declare a state of emergency rests with the County Board of Commissioners. In
order of descending authority, the following persons shall have the authority to declare a local state
of emergency or its termination. No such person shall declare or terminate a local state of
emergency unless, despite reasonable efforts to contact each and every person of a higher authority
to make such a declaration, such efforts were unsuccessful and if the situation presents such a
grave risk of loss of life or serious physical injury as to necessitate declaration of a local state of
emergency immediately. However, all reasonable and practical attempts to contact persons of
higher authority shall be made as soon as the situation allows.
                Chair of the Curry County Board of Commissioners
           gp

                Vice-chair of the Curry County Board of Commissioners
                Commissioner of the Curry County Board of Commissioners
                Sheriff of Curry County
           ene

                Emergency Management Director of Curry County

The Board or their authorized representative may, on behalf of the County, enter into such
reciprocal aid, mutual aid, joint powers agreements, intergovernmental assistance agreements or
other compacts or plans with other governmental entities for the protection of life and property.
Such agreements may include the furnishing or exchange of supplies, equipment, facilities,
personnel and/or services. Such powers and functions may be exercised in light of the exigencies
of the emergency or disaster and may waive compliance with time consuming procedures and
formalities prescribed by law pertaining thereto.

SECTION 3: REPEALER
                  and ADOPTION

The Current Article Six, Division Six (Curry County Emergency Management) is hereby repealed
and replaced in its entirety by the Code Provisions attached hereto and incorporated by reference.

SECTION 4: SEVERANCE CLAUSE

If any section, subsection, provision, clause or paragraph of this Ordinance shall be adjudged or
declared by any court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or invalid, such judgement
shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of the Ordinance; and it is hereby expressly
declared that every other section, subsection, provision clause or paragraph of this Ordinance
enacted, irrespective of the enactment or validity of the portion thereof declared to be
unconstitutional or invalid, is valid.

SECTION 5: EMERGENCY               CLAUSE

The Board of Commissioners for the County of Curry deems this Ordinance necessary for the
immediate preservation and protection of the public, peace, health, safety and general welfare for
Curry County and declares an emergency exists; this Ordinance shall be in full force and effect on
its passage.

        DATED this 4" day of January, 2023.

                                          BOARD     OF CURRY      COUNTY      COMMISSIONERS

 Michael : FitzGerald, OSB #950738

                                                                    (L
 Curry County Counsel

 EFFECTIVE DATE:      JANUARY 4, 2023
                                                 ourt Boice, Commissioner     / 7    32.2
                                            ARTICLE SIX

DIVISON SIX                              EMERGENCY         MANAGEMENT                DEPARTMENT

SECTION 6.06.010                 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY

It is the policy of the State of Oregon that preparations for emergencies and governmental
responsibility for responding to emergencics be placed at the local government level. Pursuant to
State statute, the executive officer or governing body of each county or city is responsible for the
emergency services system or emergency management agency within the respective jurisdiction.
It is the purpose of this ordinance to comply with these State requirements and to set out the
procedures for emergency response so that the County is better able to protect the health and
welfare of its citizens.

SECTION 6.06.020                DEFINITIONS

   a)   "Agency" as used in this document,        refers to Oregon        State Department     of Emergency
        Management.

   b)   "Authorized representative", in the case of a city or town; the mayor, city manager, town
        manager, town administrator, executive secretary, police chief or on-duty shift commander
        of the police department, fire chicf or on-duty shift commander of the fire department,
        health director or chairperson of the board of health and the emergency management
        director; and, in the case of a governmental unit that is not a city or town, the chief
        executive officer or his designee.

        “Board” as used in this document, refers to the Curry County Board of Commissioners.

        “Department” as used in this document,             refers   to the     Curry     County    Emergency
        Management Department.

        “Disaster” as used in this document, refers to an occurrence of natural catastrophe,
        technological accident, or human-caused event that has resulted in severe property damage,
        deaths, and/or multiple injuries.

        “Disaster Response” as used in this document, refers to a response by organizational units
        of local government exceeding mutual aid directed toward any emergency in an attempt to
        mitigate the effects of the emergency upon the public welfare.          The effects of the
        emergency, either actual or potential, must be of such magnitude   that available resources
        must be directed to the response effort.

   g) “Emergency Management” as used in this document, refers to the managerial function
        charged with creating the framework within which communities reduce vulnerability to
        hazards and cope with disasters; federal, state, territorial, tribal, substate regional, and local
        governments,     nongovernmental      organizations,    private     sector     organizations,   critical
     infrastructure owners and operators, and all other organizations and individuals who
     assume an emergency management role.

h)   “Emergency” as used in this document, refers to any manmade or natural event or
     circumstances causing or threatening loss of life, injury to person or property, human
     suffering, or financial loss and includes, but is not limited to, fire, explosion, flood, severe
     weather, drought, earthquake, volcanic activity, spills or releascs of oil or hazardous
     material as defined in ORS 466.605, contamination, utility or transportation emergencies,
     disease, blight, infestation, civil disturbance, riot, sabotage, and war.

     “Emergency Response” as used in this document, refers to prompt action directed at
     safeguarding the public’s welfare through procedures designed to minimize danger to life,
     health, property loss, or related impacts. The level of response is a function of the severity
     of the emergency, the impact or potential impact upon persons or property, and the ability
     of government to respond given limitations of budget, personnel, and equipment.

Dd   “Emergency Services” as used in this document, refers first responders: fire, police, and
     emergency medical technicians.

k)   "Employee", as used in this document, refers to a person employed full-time or part-time
     by a governmental unit, a volunteer officially operating under a governmental unit, or a
     person contractually providing services to a governmental unit.

1)   "Governmental unit", as used in this document, refers to a city, town, county, regional
     transit authority, water or sewer commission, district, or a law enforcement council.

     "Incident command system, or ‘ICS’", as used in this document, refers to the standardized
     national incident management system that establishes an on-scene management system of
     procedures for controlling personnel, facilities, equipment and communications from
     different agencies at the scene of an emergency or other event for which mutual aid
     assistance is provided.

     "Law enforcement council", as used in this document, refers to a nonprofit corporation
     comprised of municipal police chiefs and other law enforcement agencies established to
     provide: (i) mutual aid to its members pursuant to mutual aid agreements; (ii) mutual aid
     or requisitions for aid to non-members consistent with section 8G of this chapter or section
     99 of chapter 41; and (iii) enhanced public safety by otherwise sharing resources and
     personnel.

0) “Mutual Aid” as used in this document, refers to the cross-jurisdictional provisions,
     materials, and/or facilities from one party or governmental unit to another when existing
     resources are, or may be found to be, inadequate.

p) "Public safety incident", as used in this document, refers to an event, emergency or natural
     or man-made disaster, that threatens or causes harm to public health, safety or welfare and
     that exceeds,   or reasonably    may    be expected    to exceed,   the response    or recovery
         capabilities of a governmental unit including, but not limited to, a technological hazard,
         planned event, civil unrest, health-related event and an emergency, act of terrorism and
         training and exercise that tests and simulates the ability to manage, respond to or recover
         from any such event.

    q)   State of Emergency    as used   in this document,   refers to an operational   condition   of
         government declared pursuant to Section 6.06.060, wherein the usual and customary
         procedures of government may be suspended to enable immediate resource deployment to
         safeguard life and property in accordance with the Curry County Emergency Operations
         Plan.

SECTION 6.06.030                INCIDENT COMMAND             SYSTEM

The Board adopts the National Incident Management System (NIMS) and the Incident Command
System (ICS). These are the preferred incident management tools and will be integrated into all
county emergency response and operations plans.

6.06.031         Incident Command Post
The Emergency Services Director shall be responsible for the deployment and establishment of
the Incident Command Post. The County Emergency Services Director or their designee shall
perform the duty of incident commander and shall make all personnel assignments according to
need. In accordance with the Incident Command System, the County Emergency Services Director
will be relived as the Incident Commander upon the arrival of a more qualified responder for that
specific incident. Whenever an emergency affects two or more political subdivisions, the concept
of Unified Command shall be put into effect

SECTION 6.06.040        COUNTY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT                      DEPARTMENT

6.06.041       Organization
The Curry County Emergency Management Department maintains an emergency coordination
system by planning, preparing, and providing for the mitigation, response and recovery
coordination for emergencies and disasters in the County. The Department is responsible for
organizing and coordinating all jurisdictions, agencies, and organizations involved in disaster
preparedness, mitigation, response, and recovery, ensuring all local plans and procedures are
developed and maintained to meet local, state, and federal requirements. The Director of the
Department reports directly to the Board. The Department may consist of, but is not limited to:
Emergency Management Director, Emergency Managers, Coordinators, Specialists, and Aquatic
Safety.

6.06.042        Responsibility and Authority of Emergency Management within Curry
County (ORS 401.305).
There is hereby formed in Curry County an Emergency Management Department. The County
Emergency Program Manager has responsibility for the organization, administration, and
operation of the Curry County Emergency Management Department, subject to the direction and
control of the County governing body and this chapter. The Department is directly responsible to
the executive officer or governing body of the county, and shall perform the following emergency
management functions at a minimum: Coordination of the planning activities necessary to prepare
and maintain a current emergency operations plan, management and maintenance of emergency
operating facilities from which elected and appointed officials can direct emergency and disaster
response activities; establish an incident command structure for management of a coordinated
response by all local emergency service agencies; and coordinate with the Oregon Department of
Emergency Management to integrate effective practices in emergency preparedness and response
as provided in the National Incident Management System established by Homcland Security
Presidential Directive 5 of February 28, 2003.

The County Emergency Management Director, on behalf of the County, shall have the authority
to enter into mutual aid agreements between the County and cities within the County or
neighboring counties, pursuant to Section 6.06.070-072. These agreements may provide for the
support of the activities of these other jurisdictions during a state of emergency but may not provide
for the assumption of control over non-Curry County personnel, equipment, and resources.

6.06.043         Emergency Management Director
The Emergency Management Director will:
    a) Establish and identify personnel and material needs and to process, as eligible, requests for
         federal or state funding;
    b) Represent the county with other agencies regarding funding and performance matters;
    c) Represent jurisdictions within the county without cmergency management programs,
    d) Develop and maintain emergency operations plans for jurisdictions within the county
        without emergency management programs;
    e) Adopt operational procedures and practices to prepare county to respond to and recover
         from major emergencies or disasters;
    f) Provide for the coordination of emergency plans, programs, and operations within the
        county, cities, neighboring jurisdictions, and other public and private agencies with
        emergency management responsibilities.
    g) Guide each county department in development, implementation, review and maintenance
         of emergency response plans for each       critical   facility, and   department   continuity   of
         operations plans for Board approval;
    h)   Provide or arrange for training necessary to support these plans,
    i)   Develop and conduct practice exercises to give county officers and employees practice in
         directing, coordinating and supporting operations under emergency conditions;
   j)    Negotiate intergovernmental agreements for Board approval that further planning and
         preparedness to meet projected emergencies or disasters,
   k)    Provide for the procurement of personnel, equipment, materials, and supplies from higher
         authority, and for the accounting of thereof for use in the event of a declared emergency;
    1)   Coordinate and apply for state and federal funds to achieve and maintain an effective
         program;
    m)   Advise County officials and incident commanders during an emergency and in the
         development of a declaration of an emergency;
   n)    Serve as contact for damage reports during and immediately following emergencies;
   0)    Maintain a plan for the collection, evaluation, and dissemination of emergency incident
         status information, and for recommending to the Board whether potential or actual damage
         justifies a declaration of emergency;
    p)   Administer the County Emergency Management Program;
    q)   Administer the County Emergency Management Agency;
    r)   Create and train teams that will be responsible for:
             (a) Incident management and coordination in an Emergency Operations Center (EOC)
                 environment within the scope of the emergency operations plan approved by the
                 Board;
              (b) Participating in Incident Command System (ICS) training;
              (c) Participating in county emergency operations plan (EOP) exercises and event
                  driven EOC activations.
   s)    Designate and train individuals to perform the EOC functions including operations,
         planning, logistics, finance, public information, safety, liaison, and legal counsel as well as
         other positions that may be needed in a large-scale event.
   t)    Coordinate with the Curry County Emergency Services Director to identify and train
         individuals to perform the ICS functions including incident commander, operations,
         planning, logistics, finance, public information, safety, liaison, and legal counsel as well as
         other positions that may be needed in a large-scale event.
   u)    Recommend to the Board any ordinances, policies, or procedures which would assist the
         Board and other county officials in the performance of their duties in preparing for,
         responding to, and recovery from an emergency.

The Department will simultaneously notify Board and the Sheriff of all Emergency              Operations
Center activations. The Emergency Program Manager, appointed by the board, coordinates with
and supports the Emergency Services Director in regard to emergency and disaster response, and
administers the Emergency Management Program, including the management and implementation
of the Emergency Operations Plan and shall be responsible for day-to-day emergency management
operations as defined by ORS 401.025.

6.06.044    Curry County Emergency Operations Plan
The Emergency Management Department shall be responsible                    for   the   preparation   and
implementation of an emergency operations plan, hereinafter referred to as "plan." This plan shall
be a written document detailing mitigation, preparedness, response, and recovery processes for use
in dealing with actual or potential emergencies or disasters and shall provide a framework within
which emergency response agencies may function to safeguard life and property. The plan is
intended to be used only as a guide and does not carry the force of law. All County departments
are authorized to take immediate action outside of the plan when human life is threatened. Nothing
within this section requires the County to provide services to a City exceeding provision of the
[Emergency Operations Plan.

SECTION 6.06.050                 EMERGENCY         OPERATIONS CENTER

To facilitate emergency or disaster response, an Emergency Operations Center (EOC) may be
established as needed. The EOC will be staffed and equipped to enable radio communications with
field units and on-site command posts, and with the State of Oregon Emergency Coordination
Center, the State of Oregon Department of Emergency Management (OEM), and Emergency
Management Agency.
6.06.051      Location of EOC
The EOC shall be established in one of the following locations, unless the locations are deemed
unsafe for EOC operations:
           a. Curry County Emergency Operations Center located in the basement of the Curry
                     County Courthouse at 29808 Colvin Street, Gold Beach, Oregon 97444 whose
                     mailing address is 94235 Moore Street, Suite 213, Gold Beach, Oregon 97444;

              b.     City of Brookings Emergency    Operations   Center located   at 888   Elk Drive,
                     Brookings, Oregon 97415.

A mobile EOC will be deployed to field locations as needed.

The EOC shall be operated pursuant to the Incident Command System.                The Emergency
Management Director   or his/her designee shall perform the duty of EOC  Director   and shall make
all personnel assignments according to need. The      EOC   will provide support   to  the Incident
Commander. The EOC will be staffed by personnel from County government and other entities as
needed. The Emergency Program Manager will schedule quarterly training for EOC personnel.

SECTION 6.06.060                DECLARATION OF STATE OF EMERGENCY
A local state of emergency may be declared by the Board or their designee as provided in this
section after a determination is made by the Sheriff, Emergency Management Director, or their
designees that an emergency or disaster has occurred or is imminent. A declaration of local state
of emergency may be verbal or in writing and shall state the conditions and factors that necessitate
such action and specify the geographical area covered by the declaration. Such area, event
description, and duration shall be no larger than necessary to effectively respond to the emergency.

6.06.061             Parties Authorized to Declare State of Emergency
The authority to declare a state of emergency rests with the County Board of Commissioners. In
order of descending authority, the following persons shall have the authority to declare a local state
of emergency or its termination. No such person shall declare or terminate a local state of
emergency unless, despite reasonable efforts to contact each and every person of a higher authority
to make such a declaration, such efforts were unsuccessful and if the situation presents such a
grave risk of loss of life or serious physical injury as to necessitate declaration of a local state of
emergency immediately. However, all reasonable and practical attempts to contact persons of
higher authority shall be made as soon as the situation allows.
                Chair of the Curry County Board of Commissioners
                Vice-chair of the Curry County Board of Commissioners
           eoaogep

                Commissioner of the Curry County Board of Commissioners
                Sheriff of Curry County
                Emergency Management Director of Curry County

6.06.063       Notification of State of Emergency
Any Declaration of Emergency by the Board shall be promptly sent to the Oregon Department of
Emergency Management in writing and include:
    1. A certification signed by the county governing body, or an authorized representative of
        such, that all local resources have been expended; and,
   2.   A   preliminary     assessment   of    property   damage        or     loss,   injuries,   and     deaths.

The public shall be notified through general publicity of said Declaration.

6.06.064         Termination of State of Emergency
As soon as practical after the Declaration of a State of Emergency, if not already terminated, the
Curry County Board of Commissioners shall meet in person or by telephone and determine
whether existing conditions require the continuation of the state of emergency.             Upon a
determination that the emergency no longer exists,   or when the threat of an emergency has  passed,
the local state of emergency shall be terminated in accordance with this section.

6.06.065       Authority,     Control,   and     Management        of        Resources     During        State   of
Emergency
Whenever a state of emergency has been declared to exist within unincorporated Curry County, or
upon the request of a municipality's governing body, the Board of County Commissioners is
empowered to order and enforce the measures necessary to meet the emergency. Ilowever, if
circumstances prohibit the timely action of the Board of County Commissioners, the Chair of the
Board may order emergency measures provided that approval from a majority of the Board of
County Commissioners is sought and obtained at the first available opportunity, or the Chair's
order will become null and void. A partial list of emergency measures which may be ordered by
the Board of Commissioners includes:

   a)   Redirect County funds for emergency use;
   b)   Suspend standard County procurement procedures,
   c)   Extend governmental authority to nonpublic resources (i.e. personnel and equipment)
        required to support regular County resources. When property is taken under such power,
        the owner of the property is entitled to reasonable compensation.
   d)   Enter into mutual aid agreements and agreements with other public and private agencies
        for use of resources, including police and law enforcement;
   e)   Establish a curfew for the emergency area;
   f)   Evacuate persons from the emergency area;
   g)   Limit the number of persons who may congregate in public within the emergency area,
   h)   Restrict and regulate vehicular and pedestrian traffic to, from, and within the emergency
        area;
   i)   Curtail or suspend commercial activity within the emergency area,
   j)   Direct all rescue and salvage work, and do all things deemed advisable and necessary to
        alleviate the immediate condition;
   k)   Designate persons to coordinate the work of public and private relief agencies operating in
        such atea and exclude from such area any person or agency refusing to cooperate with and
        work under such coordinator or to cooperate with other agencies engaged in emergency
        work;
   1)   Control, restrict, and regulate the distribution and use of food, feed, fuel, clothing, other
        commodities, materials, goods, and services by rationing, freezing, use of quotas,
      prohibitions on shipments, price fixing, allocation, or other means,
   m) Direct activities in connection with the use, conservation, and salvage                       of essential
        materials, services, and facilities. These materials, services, and facilities may                  include
           production, transportation, power and/or communication facilities, the training and supply
           of labor, health and medical care, housing, rehabilitation, education, child care, recreation,
           and consumer protection; and
    n)     Take any other action that may be necessary for the management of resources following
           an emergency.

6.06.066          Powers of the Sheriff
Upon the declaration of a local State of Emergency, the Sheriff of Curry County, or a designee,
shall have the following powers:
      1. To issue a closure order closing to all persons any county road or local access road in Curry
         County. Any closure order issued by the Sheriff, or a designee, shall be no larger than
         reasonably necessary to effectively respond to the emergency.
     2. To request other public agencies, private persons or private entities for permission to issue
         a closure ordet for roads, waterways or other property under their jurisdiction or control.
         To prohibit any person from entering or remaining in an area subject to a closure order.
   Ww

     4, Coordinate with Curry County Emergency Services, state agencies, and federal agencies
         to maintain traffic flow and conduct mitigation measures to minimize the impact to citizens
         using the closed area.
     5. Authorize the Rural Fire Chief of the affected unincorporated area in Curry County to order
         and conduct evacuation measures as determined by the Rural Fire Chief.
    6.   The members of the Sheriffs Office and such other law cnforcement and peace officers
         are further authorized to enforce the orders, rules and regulations made or issued pursuant
         to this Division.
    7.   During the period of a declared emergency or disaster, a person shall not:
              a. Enter or remain upon the premises of any establishment not open for business to
                  the general public, unless such person is the owner or authorized agent of the
                  establishment.
              b. Violate any of the orders duly issued by the Board or authorized personnel.
              c. Willfully obstruct, hinder, or delay any duly authorized County officer, employee
                  or volunteer in the enforcement or exercise of the provisions of this chapter, or of
                  the undertaking of any activity pursuant to this chapter.

6.06.067          Scope and Effect of Rules and Orders During a State of Emergency
The authority to issue or promulgate rules and orders under this chapter may be exercised with
respect to the entire area over which the Board has jurisdiction or to any specified part thereof. All
rules and orders issued under authority conferred by this chapter shall have the full force and effect
of law during a declared state of emergency. All previously existing ordinances, rules, and orders
inconsistent with this chapter shall be inoperative during the period of time and to the extent such
inconsistencies exist.

6.06.068        Price Gouging Prohibited
During a disaster declared by the Governor or an emergency declared by the Board, the value
received for goods and services sold within the designated disaster area may not exceed the prices
ordinarily charged for comparable goods and services in the same market area at, or immediately
before, the time of the emergency. However, the value received may include reasonable expenses
and a charge for any attendant business risk, in addition to the cost of the goods and services that
necessarily are incurred in procuring the goods and services during the emergency. Each sale or
offer for sale violating this provision constitutes a separate offense.

6.06.069       Penalty and Enforcement
Any person, firm, corporation, association or entity who violates any cmergency measure taken
by the Board of County Commissioners under authority of this Chapter shalt be subject, upon
conviction, to a fine of not more than $1,000.00 per offense. Each day of violation shall be deemed
a separate offense for purposes of imposition of penalty, This Chapter shall be enforceable in the
manner provided by Article 10 of Curry County Code (Enforcement).

SECTION 6.06.070               ACQUISITION   OF   RESOURCES,   MUTUAL                            AID
AGREEMENTS,      AUTO           AID   AGREEMENTS,   AND   MEMORANDUMS-                            OF
UNDERSTANDING.

The foregoing shall apply to all executive, legislative and judicial powers and functions conferred
upon the County and its officers, employees and authorized agents, Mutual Aid Agreements, Auto
Aid Agreements, and Memorandums of Understanding developed during and before an emergency
or disaster shall be filed with the Curry County Clerk. Under the provisions of ORS Chapter 401,
Stale resources   are available when   the appropriate response   to an emergency    is beyond    the
capability of the county in which it occurs, the County fails to act, or the emergency involves two
or more Counties and the Governor determines that lack of coordination is hampering the
effectivencss of response to the emergency.

 The Board or their authorized representative may, on behalf of the County, enter into such
reciprocal aid, mutual aid, joint powers agreements, intergovernmental assistance agreements or
other compacts or plans with other governmental entities for the protection of life and property.
Such agreements may include the furnishing or exchange of supplies, equipment, facilities,
personnel and/or services. Such powers and functions may be exercised in light of the exigencics
of the emergency or disaster and may waive compliance with time consuming procedures and
formalities prescribed by law pertaining thereto.

This section shall not affect, supersede or invalidate any other statutory or contractual mutual aid
or assistance agreements involving parties to the agreement. A party may enter into supplementary
mutual aid agreements with other parties or jurisdictions.

6.06.071         Authorization For Assistance
Pursuant to the Oregon Resource Coordination Assistance Agreement (ORCAA) Implementation
Guide, the County hereby authorizes the Emergency Management Department to request
assistance or to respond to requests for assistance using ORCAA.

Under this section and the provisions of ORCAA, the Board of County Commissioners ts
authorized to extend government authority to nongovernmental resources (i.e. personnel,
equipment) that may support regular government forces during an emergency and may enter into
agreements with other public and private agencies for use of resources. Eminent domain applies
as provided by ORS Chapter 35.
6.06.072        Mutual Aid Administered and Received Pursuant to ORCAA Guidelines
The joining of Municipalities to the County Mutual Aid Agreement, manner of requests for Mutual
Aid Assistance, responsibilities of the parties, and form of requests shall be conducted as provided
by ORCAA, as currently exists or as may be amended. If provisions of this Division conflict with
the provisions of ORCAA, they shall be superseded.

6.06.073        Joining of Municipalities to County Mutual Aid Agreement
If a City wishes to join the agreement, the Mayor or, if authorized, the City Manager may act on
behalf of the City to join the agreement by notifying the director of the agency in writing. The
municipality shall be a party to the agreement 30 days after receipt by the Department of the written
notification.
A City that has joined the agreement may opt out of the agreement in the same manner as provided
for joining the agreement and by notifying the agency in writing of its intention to opt out. The
removal of the municipality from the agreement shall take effect 10 days after receipt by the agency
of the written notification.
If a governmental unit that is not a City wishes to join the agreement, the chief executive officer
of the governmental unit may act on its behalf to join the agreement by notifying the director of
the agency in writing. The governmental unit shall be a party to the agreement 30 days after receipt
by the agency of the written notification.
If a governmental unit that is not a City has joined the agreement but wishes to opt out of the
agreement, the chief executive officer of the governmental unit may act on its bchalfto opt out of
the agreement by notifying the agency in writing. The removal of the municipality from the
agreement shall take effect 10 days after receipt by the agency of the written notification.

6.06.074       Requests for Mutual Aid Assistance
The requesting party shall be responsible for the overall operation, assignment and deployment of
resources and personnel provided by a sending party consistent with the incident command system.
The sending party shall retain direct supervision, command and control of personnel, equipment
and resources provided by the sending party unless otherwise agreed to by the requesting party
and the sending party. During the course of rendering mutual aid assistance under the agreement,
the sending party shall be responsible for the operation of its equipment and for any damage thereto
unless the sending party and the requesting party agree otherwise.

Except as otherwise agreed to by the parties, the requesting party shall seek reimbursement under
any applicable federal and state disaster assistance programs for the costs of responding to the
public safety incident. The requesting party and each sending party shall receive, based on the
documented costs of providing mutual aid assistance, its pro rata share of the disaster assistance
reimbursement provided to the requesting party.

Each party to the agreement shall waive all claims and causes of action against each other party to
the agreement that may arise out of their activities while rendering or receiving mutual aid
assistance under the agreement,    including travel outside of its jurisdiction, and shal! defend,
indemnify and hold harmless cach sending party from all claims by third parties for property
damage or personal injury which may arise out of the activities of the sending party or its
employees, including travel, while providing mutual aid assistance under the agreement.
6.06.075          Responsibilities of Sending Party
A sending party shall document its costs of providing mutual aid assistance under the agreement,
including direct and indirect payroll and employee benefit costs, travel costs, repair costs and the
costs of materials and supplies. A sending party shall also document the use of its equipment and
the quantities of materials and supplies used while providing mutual aid assistance under the
agreement. While providing mutual aid assistance under the agreement, employees of a sending
party shall:
      1. Be afforded the same powers, duties, rights, and privileges as they are afforded in the
         sending party's geographical jurisdiction or location; and
     2. Receive the same salary, including overtime, that they would be entitled to receive if they
         were operating in their own governmental unit. In the absence of an agreement to the
         contrary, the sending party shall be responsible for all such salary expenses, including
         overtime.

All expenses incurred by the sending party in rendering mutual aid assistance pursuant to the
agreement shall be paid by the sending party; provided, however, that a requesting party and a
sending party may entcr into supplementary agreements for reimbursement of costs associated
with providing mutual aid assistance incurred by a sending party.

6.06.076       Responsibilities of Receiving/Requesting Party
A party that receives a request for mutual aid assistance shall provide and make available, to the
extent reasonable and practicable under the circumstances, the resources requested;         provided,
however, that a sending party may withhold requested resources to the extent necessary to provide
reasonable protection and coverage for its own jurisdiction.

While in transit to, returning from and providing mutual aid assistance under the agreement,
employees of a sending party shall have the same rights of defense, immunity and indemnification
that they otherwise would have under the law if they were acting within the scope of their
employment under the direction of their employer. A sending party shall provide to, and maintain
for, each of its employees who provide mutual aid assistance under the agreement the same
indemnification, defense, right to immunity, employee benefits, death benefits, workers'
compensation or similar protection and insurance coverage that would be provided to those
employees if they were performing similar services in the sending party's jurisdiction.

6.06.077        Form of Request for Mutual Aid Assistance
A request by a party to receive mutual aid assistance under the agreement shall be made, either
orally or in writing, by an authorized representative of the requesting party and shall be
communicated to an authorized representative of the sending party or to the agency; provided,
however, that if the request is communicated orally, the requesting party shall reduce the request
to writing and deliver it to the sending party or to the agency at the earliest possible date, but not
later than 72 hours after making the oral request. A party to the agreement may request mutual aid
assistance during, in anticipation of or as a result of a public safety incident.
An oral or written request for mutual aid assistance under the agreement shall include the following
information:
     1. A description of the public safety incident;
   2.    The   nature, type and amount    of personnel, equipment,    materials,   supplies   or other
         resources being requested;
         The manner in which the resources shall be used and deployed;
         A reasonable estimate of the length of time for which the resources shall be needed;
   NPY

         The location to which the resources shall be deployed; and
         The requesting party's point of contact.

6.06.078      Filing of Mutual Aid Agreements
All Mutual Aid Agreements entered into by the County shall be promptly filed with the Curry
County Clerk.