FILEO INCURRY COUNTY               CJ:2014-28
                                                                       Renee’ Kolen. County Clerk   02/26/2014 10:57:15AM
                                                                                                                 4 PAGES
                                                                        Commissioners’ Journal

                             BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
                                   IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF CURRY

In the Matter of an Amendment
To the Curry County Code Adding
A New Article One Division Fifteen
Authorizing the County to Enter
Into an Intergovernmental
Agreement      under ORS Chapter 190               orDINANCENO.       \44-©O       \
Creating an Association to Promote,
Foster and Advance Community
Based Renewable Energy, to Be
Known as Community Renewable
Energy Association (CREA)

        The Board of Commissioners for the County of Curry Ordains as Follows:

SECTION 1       TITLE
        This ordinance shall be known as Ordinance No. 4-1        , an ordinance amending the Curry
County Code.

SECTION 2         ADOPTION
         Exhibit “A”, attached hereto and incorporated by this reference, is adopted as an amendment to
the Curry County Code; to wit, as a new Article One Section 15.

SECTION 3         SEVERANCE CLAUSE
         if any section, subsection, provision, clause or paragraph of the ordinance shall be adjudged or
declared by any court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or invalid, such judgment shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance. It is expressly declared that every
other section, subsection, provision, clause or paragraph of this Ordinance, irrespective of the
enactment or validity of the portion thereof declared to be unconstitutional or invalid, is valid.

        ADOPTED this      (qr        day of February, 2014.

                                  BOARD OF CURRY COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
                                  S     Brown, Chair

                          Za       bed pe
                          a David Brock
                                                                 —s-"

                                        Smith, Vice Chair

                                      Npoent
                                  David G. itzen, Commissioner

Attest:

Recording Secretary

Approved as to Form:

M. Gerard Herbage
Curry County Legal Counsel

First Reading: dam       25, 2014
Second Reading:   Sols       \4A_2 ott
Emergency Adoption:
Effective Date:   ) Gy       20   20!    4
                    Community Renewable Energy Association (CREA)

                                         EXHIBIT “A”

              Section 1.15.010 Authority. ORS Chapter 190 authorizes units of local
government, including counties, to enter into intergovernmental agreements.

              Section 1.15.020 Effective Date. The effective date of the Intergovernmental
Agreement shall be 90 days after adoption of this ordinance.

               Section 1.15.30 Purpose. The primary purpose of the Association created by
the Intergovernmental Agreement is as follows:

               1. To promote, foster and advance, through cooperative action of com-
       munity based renewable energy industry of the State served by the Association,
       the economic application and public understanding of community based
       renewable energy.

               2. To provide cooperation and liaison with other persons, organizations
       and institutions having an interest in community based renewable energy.

               3. To cooperate in and contribute towards the enhancement of widespread
       understanding of the various applications of community renewable energy
       through public and professional activities.

               4. To engage in any lawful activity that will enhance the efficient and
       economic progress of community based renewable energy industry and inform the
       public of its scope and character, such as, but not limited to, collecting and
       disseminating market and trade statistics and other useful information; to carry on
       and assist in research investigations and experiments; to conduct conferences and
       produce publications, and to conduct trade promotion activities.

                5. To voluntarily extend aid or assistance, financial or otherwise, and to
       cooperate with such private or governmental bodies, corporations, associations,
       institutions, societies, agencies or persons as are now or may hereafter be engaged
       in whole or in part in furtherance of the objectives and purposes herein named.

               6. Act as intervenor spokesperson and lobbyist at PUC and legislative
       hearings and other public forums.

               Section 1.15.40 Powers. CREA, the Association created by the
Intergovernmental Agreement, shall have the power:

               1. To exercise all powers that may be necessary to enable it to perform
       and carry out the duties and responsibilities conferred upon its Members or which
       may hereafter be imposed upon it by law, contract or the Agreement.
               2. To accept gifts and bequests, to apply for and use subsidies, grants or
       appropriations of money and personal or real property from any lawful source,
       and enter into any and all agreements required in connection therewith, in
       accordance with the terms of the gift, subsidy, grant, appropriation, agreement or
       contract related thereto.

               3. To accept appointments to act as agents or assignees of others,
       including the Members, as is necessary to carry out its functions and purposes.

               4, To establish, join and cooperate with communities and advisory groups
       of citizens, private or governmental bodies, corporations, associations,
       institutions, societies, agencies as are now or may hereafter be engaged in
       furtherance of community based renewable energy objectives.

                 Section 1.15.50 Apportionment of Expenses and Revenue. The expenses of
the Association shall be apportioned among the parties to the Agreement equally, as shall the
revenue or fees derived from any functions or activities of the Association. The Association
shall establish a budget on an annual basis, which budget shall be approved by the Members of
the Association. The Association shall generally follow the budget laws for cities and counties
in the State of Oregon, as set forth in Oregon law.