FILED IN CURRY COUNTY             CJ:2020-165
                                                                Renee’ Kolen, County Clerk   06/09/2020 9:36:56 AM
                                                                Commissioners' Journal                   6 PAGES

                     IN THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

                   IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF CURRY, OREGON

In the Matter of an Amendment

                                            eee”
to the Curry County Code

                                            ee
Regarding Property Registration                     ORDINANCE NO.                20-         O 1

                                            ee
Article Two, Division Seventeen

                                            ee
Property Registration

                                            ee

       The Board of Commissioners for the County of Curry ordains as follows:

SECTION 1: TITLE

      This Ordinance shall be known as Ordinance    VA O - Ol , an Ordinance
amending the Curry County Code with respect to Property Registration, Article Two.

SECTION 2: ADOPTION
      Exhibit “A”, attached hereto and incorporated by reference, is adopted as an
amendment to the Curry County Code.

SECTION 3:_ SEVERANCE CLAUSE

        If any section, subsection, provision, clause or paragraph of this Ordinance shall
be adjudged or declared by any court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or
invalid, such judgement shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of the
Ordinance; and it is hereby expressly declared that every other section, subsection,
provision clause or paragraph of this Ordinance enacted, irrespective of the enactment
or validity of the portion thereof declared to be unconstitutional or invalid, is valid.

SECTION 4: EFFECTIVE DATE
       Staff is to begin implementing this Ordinance on July 1, 2020.

       DATED this 4" day of March, 2020.

11Ordinance     Property     Registration
                                   BOARD OF CURRY COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

                                    AL    cent
                                   Christopher S Paasch, Chair

                                         tee           ——    eee

                              sn         Boice, Vice Chair ”- “"?o

                               Sue ald, (a           or

First Reading: February 19, 2020
Second Reading: March 4, 2020
Emergency Adoption: NA

    Ope
Effective Date: June-Z,2020

Attest:

“De a           Dep i
Recording Secretary

Qe
Curry County Counsel

2|Ordinance    Property   Registration
                                                  Exhibit “A”

                                                 ARTICLE TWO

                               Division 17 - PROPERTY REGISTRATION

Section 2.17.010             Title and Purpose

This ordinance shall be known as the ‘Property Registration Ordinance’. The purpose of this ordinance is
to protect neighborhoods from blight, vandalism and other crimes by ensuring an adequate code and
law enforcement presence to patrol areas with vacant properties or those developed properties where
the owner does not reside on-site.

Section 2.17.020             Definitions

Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions established herein shall govern the
construction of this ordinance.

    (1)   ‘County’ means Curry County.

    (2)   ‘Lawfully Established Unit of Land’ shall have the same meaning as defined in ORS 92.010.

    (3)   ‘Occupied’ means the owner inhabits the property at feast six months in a calendar year, and
          said property is the legal, permanent residence of the owner.

    (4)   ‘Owner’ means the person or party named as the owner on the deed or mortgage, the lender, or
          other party legally responsible for the property.

    (5)   ‘Owner-Vacant’ means a lawfully established unit of land entirely within Curry County that is not
          legally occupied as a landowner’s permanent residence; and the owner does not live elsewhere
          within Curry County.

          ‘Permanent Residence’ means housing the landowner claims as their legal residence, or housing
          a person in the military declares as their legal residence.   For purposes of this ordinance, a
          permanent residence is property that is legally occupied by the landowner at least six months in
          a calendar year.

    (7)   ‘Property’ means a lawfully established unit of land or buildings owned by the same person,
          party or lender.

    (8)   ‘Property Manager or Agent’ means an individual or licensed commercial entity that has been
          contracted by the Property Owner to oversee and manage properties within Curry County.            A
          Property Manager is typically responsible for ensuring the property is in compliance with
          applicable safety, sanitation, zoning, building and other ordinances related to the use of
          privately owned property.

Section 2.17.030            Applicability

This ordinance is applicable to the unincorporated areas of Curry County, Oregon.

Section 2.17.040            Exemptions

    (1) This ordinance does not apply to property owned or leased by a municipality or local, state or
         federal agency.

    (2) This ordinance does not apply to timber companies or other entities that contract with the
         Sheriff's Office for patrol services, and which pay a fee for that service.

    (3) This ordinance does not apply to properties which are managed by a management company
         licensed by the State of Oregon; however, evidence of the management agreement must be
         submitted annually to the County for the property to be considered exempt.

Section 2.17.050            Occupancy Determination

    (1) Ifa property is not legally occupied at least six months in a calendar year by the owner of the
         property, and the owner does not declare a home elsewhere in Curry County as their permanent
         residence, the owner shall register the property as an owner-vacant property with the County.

    (2) This ordinance also applies to properties that have been the subject of a foreclosure sale ora
         property transferred under a deed in lieu of foreclosure.

Section 2.17.060            Registration

    (1) The registration application shall contain the following information:
         a.   The name, address and phone number of the property owner or responsible party;
         b.   The e-mail address to send notifications;
         c.   The name, address and phone number of the lender, if applicable;
         d.   The direct contact information for the Property Manager or Agent responsible for security, if
              applicable;
         e.   Anon-refundable annual registration fee established by Curry County.

   (2)   In the event the ownership of the property changes, or mailing address of the owner changes,
         the new owner shall have ninety (90) days to file a new registration with the county.

   (3)   Registration forms are available on the county website at www.co.curry.or.us or in person at the
         Community Development Department, Code Enforcement Division. Checks are payable to
         ‘Curry County’.
    (4) All registration databases are confidential and shall be maintained by the Code Enforcement
          Division. Information from the registration may only be shared with Law Enforcement, Fire
          Protection Districts/Services; Curry County Emergency Management; and other first responder
          agencies or disaster planners in response to or in preparation for a natural disaster or during a
          natural disaster event; and the Curry County Community Development Department as necessary
          to assist in that agency’s efforts to reduce violations of the county’s ordinances   and increase
          the availability of housing within the County; or upon property registrant’s approval for the
          release of information.

Section 2.17.070           Maintenance and Security

    (1) The owner or responsible party shall take measures to ensure the property is not a public
          nuisance or a chronic public nuisance as described by the Curry County Code of Ordinances.

    (2) Premises shall be kept free of graffiti, trash, accumulated newspapers or other paper or plastic
          items, discarded personal items, and any other item or condition that would cause a person to
          form a reasonable belief the property is vacant.

    (3) Property shall be maintained in a manner that does not pose a safety hazard to the public,
          including trespassers.

    (4) Buildings shall remain secure and locked.      Windows and doors may be boarded if damaged or
          otherwise permitted by code. Damaged windows and doors shall either be repaired or replaced
          within thirty (30) days’ notice from the county.

    (5) Compliance with this section does not relieve a person subject to this ordinance of any
          obligations set forth by law, or any covenants, conditions and restrictions which may apply to
          the subject property.

Section 2.17.080           Violations; Penalty

    (1) Citations for violation of any section of this ordinance may be mailed by first class mail to the
          owner, lender, or registered agent.

    (2) Violations deemed a public nuisance may be subject to additional penalties as provided in the
          County Code.

    (3)   Failure to annually register the property as owner-vacant is deemed a violation and every day of
          violation shall constitute a separate offense.

Section 2.17.90 Appeals
An owner or lender aggrieved by a written decision made by the County Code Enforcement Officer, or
his designee, in the enforcement or interpretation of this ordinance shall have the right to appeal to the
Curry County Board of Commissioners by filing a written appeal with the Curry County Board of
Commissioners Office.    The non-refundable appeal fee is $250, shall state the owners name, address,
phone and other applicable information, as well as a statement as to the factors of the appeal. Appeals
must be made within fourteen days of the date of the Code Enforcement Officer's written decision.
Appeals will be processed at the next available meeting of the Board of Commissioners; the owner,
lender or agent shall be present or appear electronically, or submit in writing, to state their reasons for
appeal.   Failure to appear in person, electronically, or by phone shall be grounds to deny the appeal.

Section 2.17.100          Enforcement Disbursements

Registration fees collected for the administration of this ordinance shall be allocated as follows:

    (1) Community Development administrative service shall be 15% and shall include registry
          mangement;

    (2) Community Development code enforcement services shall be 15%;

    (3) The remainder of the registration fees collected shall be directed towards the Curry County Jail
          and Sheriff's Communications budgets.