FILED IN CURRY COUNTY                 CJ:2021-96
                                                                    Renee’ Kolen, County Clerk == 02/24/2021 11:11:41 AM
                                                                    Commissioners’ Journal                     7 PAGES

                   BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

                      IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF CURRY, OREGON

In the Matter of an Ordinance)
Amending Article Six, Division)                                         ;
Twelve of the Curry County       )                 ORDINANCE NO.            2   | ~ O|
Code, adding Noise Standards )
And Prohibitions, Establishing _ )
Penalties Declaring Emergency )

        The Board of Commissioners for the County of Curry ordains as follows:

SECTION ONE        TITLE

       This Ordinance shall be known as Ordinance No. Z | ~ Ol an Ordinance amending the Curry
County Code.

SECTION TWO        FINDINGS

        1)   The current Article Six, Division Twelve is reserved as Excessive Noise;
        2)   The Curry County Board of Commissioners desires to adopt noise standards, prohibit
             excessive noise, create exceptions, and establish penalties for violations.

SECTION THREE        AMENDMENT

        Article Six, Division Twelve of the Curry County Code concerning “Excessive Noise” is amended
to add provisions included in the accompanying Exhibit A.

{tl

{tl

Hl

Mtl

Mtl

Hl

M1

1 | Ordinance Amending Article SIX, Division TWELVE       EXCESSIVE NOISE DISTURBANCES
SECTION           FOUR   AUTHORITY and DECLARING    EMERGENCY

         Pursuant to ORS 203.010, ORS 201.035, and ORS 203.045, the Board of Commissioners for the
County of Curry deems this Ordinance necessary for the preservation and protection of the public, peace,
health, safety and general welfare for Curry County and declares an emergency.

                            +

         DATED this [7 th         of   (¢          V, 2021.

                                                        Curry County Board of Commissioners

                                                          ourt Boice, Chair   <7   727/

                                                        John Herzog, Vigd Ghair

                                                 oS,
                                                        Christopher S Paasch, Commissioner

 “Alohy iv               Shs, ect
Recording Secretary

Approved as to F

John     Hit l,
Curry      Cpunty Counsel

First Reading:   ts ~3- ZI
Second Reading: 2 - /7-21
Emergency Adoption   2-7-2]
Effective Date:             -19-L

2 | Ordinance Amending Article SIX, Division TWELVE     EXCESSIVE NOISE DISTURBANCES
                                                 EXHIBIT A

                                ARTICLE SIX — ENVIRONMENT AND HEALTH

DIVISION TWELVE            EXCESSIVE NOISE NUISANCE

SECTION 6.12.010           RESERVED

SECTION 6.12.020           FINDINGS AND PROHIBITION

A. The making and creating of loud, unnecessary or unusual noises within the boundaries of the county
is a condition which has increased over time and has become detrimental to the health, comfort,
convenience, safety, welfare and prosperity of the residents of the county in some areas.

B. The necessity in the public interest for the provisions and prohibitions hereinafter declared contained
and enacted are in pursuance of and for the purpose of securing and promoting the public health,
comfort, convenience, safety, welfare and prosperity and the peace and quiet of the county and its
inhabitants.

SECTION 6.12.030           DEFINITIONS

As used in this chapter:

"Noise sensitive unit" means any building or portion thereof, vehicle, boat or other structure used as a
church, day care center, hospital, nursing care center, school, or place used for overnight
accommodations of persons, including, but not limited to, individual homes, individual apartments,
trailers and nursing homes.

"Vehicle" includes automobiles, motorcycles, motorbikes, go-karts, trucks, buses and snowmobiles.

SECTION 6.12.040           STANDARDS GENERALLY NOISE NUISANCE PROHIBITION

it is unlawful for any person to make, allow, continue or cause to be made or continued, an
unreasonable noise disturbance. An unreasonable noise disturbance is any noise, which unreasonably
annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of any person ina
noise sensitive unit.

Factors to determine whether a noise is unreasonable include but are not limited to:
        A. The volume of the noise;
        B. The distance from the source of the noise;
        C. The hour of day the noise is made;
        D. The duration or repeated nature of the noise;
        £. Whether the noise is plainly audible within a noise sensitive unit;
        F. The nature and zoning of the area within which the noise emanates and is heard;
            G. The density of the habitation of the area within which the noise emanates;

SECTION 6.12.050            ENUMERATION OF ACTS       IN VIOLATION

The following acts are prima facie evidence of a violation of this chapter, but said enumeration shall not
be deemed to be exclusive, namely:

A. Horns, Signaling Devices, Etc. Sounding of any horn or signaling device on any automobile,
motorcycle, or other vehicle on any street or public place in the county, except as a danger warning; the
creation by means of any signaling device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of
any such device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time;

B. Radios, Phonographs, Etc. Use of sound producing or reproducing equipment that is audible within a
noise sensitive unit that is not the source of the sound, or use of such equipment on public property or
ona   public right-of-way so as to be plainly audible 50 feet or more from the source of the sound;

C. Barking dogs or other noisy animals which disturb the comfort and repose of any person in the
vicinity;

D. Yelling, Shouting, Etc. Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling, or singing on the public streets, between
7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the next day; or at any hour in such a manner as to be audible within a noise
sensitive unit which is not the source of sound;

E. Operation of mechanically powered lawn equipment, garden tools, chainsaws, blowers or similar
devices in an area zoned for residential use between 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the next day;

F. Construction. The erection, construction (including excavation), demolition, alteration, or repair of
any structure or site, or construction related to public improvement projects between 7:00 p.m. and
7:00 a.m. the next day;

G. Piledrivers, Hammers, Etc. The operation between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of any
piledriver, pneumatic hammer, derrick, steam or electric hoist, or other equipment;

H. Exhaust Brakes. The use of exhaust brakes except when used for an emergency stop or to slow to
avoid a collision; or

|. Exhausts. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine, stationary internal
combustion engine, motor boat, motorcycle, or motor vehicle except through a muffler or other device
which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom;
SECTION 6.12.060         EXEMPTIONS

Nothing in this chapter is intended to unreasonably restrict or regulate:

A. Forestry. The normal and usual operation of equipment and machinery in connection with and on
land zoned for and being used for the growing and harvesting of timber and other forest products
because of noise arising from such activity.

B. Farming and agricultural. Farming and agriculture practices because of noise arising from farm or
agriculture use of land zoned for farming or agriculture.

C. Industrial. Industrial practices because of noise arising from industrial use of land zoned for industrial
use.

D. Organized Athletic or Other Group Activities. Sounds caused by organized athletic or other group
activities, when those activities are conducted on property generally used for those purposes, including
stadiums, parks, schools, churches, airports and athletic fields. These exceptions do not prohibit the
county from exempting a specific event or activity from this chapter, or other laws, ordinances or
regulations upon proper permitting.

E. Sounds caused by emergency work, or by the ordinary and accepted use of emergency equipment,
vehicles and apparatus, regardless of whether such work is performed by a public or private agency, or
upon public or private property.

F. Sounds caused by regular vehicular traffic upon premises open to the public.

G. Sounds regulated by federal and state law, including but not limited to activities permitted by the
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality and sounds caused by railroads and aircraft.

H. Events or mass gatherings which have received proper permitting though the County.

SECTION 6.12.070         REVOCABLE PERMIT TO CONDUCT NOISE PRODUCING ACTIVITY

As set forth herein, any person, business, entity or government agency planning the operation of a
sound source which may violate any provision of this chapter may apply for a permit for such activity.
This provision does not relieve the applicant form any requirement for a conditional use or other permit.

        1. Duration. The permit shall be revocable by the County at the County’s discretion.
        The permit shall not exceed 72 hours in duration. Public improvement and utility
        projects may be permitted beyond 72 hours.
2. Application. The applicant must submit a complete written application in a form provided by
the County and submit to the County Director of Operations. The application need only address
that portion of the project regarding noise production.   Any application that does not comply
with the following requirements is not complete and must be resubmitted:
        a. A processing fee established by resolution and order;
        b. The name, address and telephone number of the entity or individual requesting the
        permit and the signature of an authorized representative;
        c. The length of time for the activity; and
        d. An analysis of the proposal, addressing:
                i. The purpose for the creation of the noise;
                ii. The nature of the noise;
                iii. The affected population within the geographical area of the noise source,
                and whether it is residential, commercial or industrial;
                         (A) Estimation of the range and maximum sound levels of the noise
                         according to time of day, and geographical location,
                iv. The projected duration and times of the noise;
                v. The potential impacts of the noise on the affected population;
                vi. The extent and scope of measures that the applicant has taken or will take to
                reduce or diminish the disturbance for the affected population such as:

                         (A) Modification of operations to reduce the impact the noise will have
                         on the affected population,
                         (B) Construction of physical barriers to diminish noise levels,
                         (C) Establishment of a citizen complaint process for resolving complaints
                         and alleged violations of the variance,
                         (D) Establishment of a noise monitoring program to measure sound
                         levels at various locations and times to ensure noise levels fall within
                         the maximum range estimated,
                         (E) Any other measure that is deemed necessary and proper to minimize
                         impacts the noise will create in the affected area.

3. Processing the Permit Application.

        a. The Director of Operations or Designee (Director) shall provide a response within
        fourteen (14) days of the applicant's submittal of a complete application and processing
        fee.

        b. The Director may deny the application, approve the application or approve the
        application subject to conditions. The decision by the Director shall be in writing and
        include a brief summary of the relevant facts, reasoning and conclusion, together with
        any conditions of approval including the duration of the permit.
                c. In the event of denial or approval subject to conditions, the applicant may submit the
                application for reconsideration. The application for reconsideration may include
                additional information In support of the requested variance and must be submitted
                within five days of the initial decision. The Director will issue the decision on
                reconsideration within seven (7) days.

                d. A decision of the Director shall be appealable to the Board of Commissioners which
                shall be the final decision of the county.

                e. The decision of the Board of Commissioners shall be reviewable solely under ORS
                34,010 through ORS 34.100 in the Circuit Court of Curry County.

        4. Violations of Permit
                a. In addition to having a permit revoked, violation of the terms and conditions of the
                permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter enforceable as provided in this
                Section.
                b. The fines provided for herein are in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other remedy
                allowed by law, including but not limited to revocation, action for restraining order, and
                injunction or abatement.

SECTION 6.12.080           VIOLATION - PENALTY
A. Violation of this code is punishable under Article 10 of the County Codified Ordinances (Enforcement).

B. Each day any person shall be in violation of this chapter or rules or regulations adopted pursuant
thereto shall be deemed a separate offense.

SECTION 6.12.090           OTHER ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES NOT EXCLUDED

The provisions of this chapter are in addition to and not in lieu of any other procedures and remedies
provided by law, including equitable relief and damages.     The County may at its option declare the noise
disturbance a public nuisance and institute abatement procedures per Ordinance 6.01.040-6.01.070.

SECTION 6.12.100           CONFORMITY WITH LAW

This chapter shall not in any way be a substitute for, nor eliminate in any way, the necessity for
conformity with any and all laws or rules of the state of Oregon or its agencies, nor any ordinance or rule
or regulation of the county.