ARTICLE THREE — ROADS

             DIVISION TWO:           NAMING OF ROADS WITHIN CURRY COUNTY

                                    SECTION 3.02.010:       RESERVED

                                   SECTION 3.02.020:       AUTHORITY

        The following procedures and requirements relating to the naming or renaming of roads
in Curry County are hereby adopted pursuant to authority granted by ORS Chapter 215.

                                   SECTION 3.02.030:       DEFINITIONS

          See Section 3.01.030 for definitions.

          As used in this division the masculine includes the feminine and the singular includes the
plural.

                                      ROAD NAMING PROCESS

                                  SECTION 3.02.040_       ROAD NAMING

          Roads shall be named or renamed by the Community Development Director or her/his
designee.

                                      SECTION 3.02.050__DUTIES

          The Community Development Director shall have the duty of naming or renaming roads
within unincorporated Curry County.         The Director shall select a name for the road in question
and notify the Roadmaster and Sheriff of the proposed name. The Roadmaster and Sheriff,
within      10   working   days   of receiving   the   proposed   name,   shall   advise   the   Community
Development Director of their concurrence with the name or any objections. Upon consideration
of the Roadmaster’s and Sheriff's comments and determination of the road name the Community
Development Director shall notify the abutting property owners of record of the road under
consideration advising of the new road name. Should any abutting property owner object to the
road name, the Community Development Director may re-evaluate the name and choose another
name utilizing the same process as noted herein.

      SECTION 3.02.060_           NOTIFICATION OF PROPERTY OWNERS AND AGENCIES

         The Community Development Director will send notice of the proposed road name
change to all affected agencies, including the Road Department, County Surveyor, Assessor,
Sheriff, Clerk, appropriate fire districts and forest protection district, appropriate ambulance
services, appropriate 911 call centers, Post Office, appropriate cities, and abutting property

DIVISION TWO                                                                                         Page 1
owners of record. Such notice shall include a statement as to where and when any objections
should be filed pursuant to Section 3.02.070 below.

    SECTION 3.02.070_        APPEAL OF THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR
                                         DECISION

       Upon receipt of the information regarding the road name, abutting property owners of
record served by the road and agencies will have 10 working days to appeal the decision of the
Community Development Director to the Board of Commissioners.

                        SECTION 3.02.080        _FILING OF NEW ROAD NAME

      Upon completion of the road naming process, the new road name shall be filed by the
Community Development Director with the County Clerk, the County Assessor, the County
Community Development Department, the County Roadmaster and the County Surveyor. The
County Surveyor shall enter the new names of such roads or streets in red ink on any files, plats
and tracings thereof which might be affected, together with the appropriate notations concerning
the same.

                             SECTION 3.02.090_        ROADS COVERED

        Any County, public, or private street, road, highway or way visibly showing evidence of
serving three or more existing residences, and a minimum of 500’ in length is covered by this
ordinance.   Pursuant to ORS 227.120 those roads and streets within six (6) miles of the limits of
any incorporated city shall not be renamed by the County.

                        SECTION 3.02.100        PREVIOUSLY NAMED ROADS

       Requests    to    rename   roads   may    be   made   through   the   Community   Development
Department by a majority of abutting property owners of record served by the road.          Requests
may be denied by the Community Development Director on the basis of length of the name,
appropriateness of the name, disagreement among the property owners, confusion the name may
cause, similarity to other road names or any other reasons the Community Development Director
deems appropriate. No findings shall be required.

       The Community Development Director may instigate renaming procedures on her/his
own in order to bring roads into conformity with this division.

                         SECTION 3.02.110         LAMBERT GRID SYSTEM

       The naming of roads under this system shall be done in such manner as to work
compatibly with the Lambert Grid System which is utilized in Curry County.

(1)     Addresses will be assigned only to improved lots or parcels which include a driveway
leading onto the named road.
(2)     Subsequent addressing of lots will be accomplished pursuant to Section 3.02.140 below.

                      SECTION 3.02.120        POSTING OF ROAD SIGNS

        The Curry County Road Department may, at the Roadmaster’s recommendation, install
signs for non-County roads. Said signs shall be placed in a position to adequately indicate which
road is being named. The signs may be placed upon public or private property for the protection
of the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Curry County. The cost of the sign,
installation and maintenance for non-County roads shall be borne by the person(s) requesting the
sign. This person may include the Board or its delegated authority.

                     SECTION 3.02.130       ADDRESS NUMBER PLATES

        The County Community Development Department shall assign addresses to new
dwellings or developments when the owner is granted a building permit. At that time the
Community Development Department will advise the Road Department of the address and the
address number plate may be purchased from the County Road Department. If the address
number plate is not purchased from the Road Department, it shall have a retroreflectorized green
background with retroreflectorized white numbers. The numbers shall not be less than three
inches in height. Upon completion of the dwelling or development the address number plate
shall be posted by the property owner prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy. Said
plates shall be conspicuously posted at all times by the resident in a manner to allow emergency
vehicle drivers to immediately ascertain the address of each residence.

      SECTION 3.02.140_     PARTITIONS AND SUBDIVISIONS - ROAD NAMING AND
                                       POSTING

(1)    At the time a partition or subdivision is requested, an applicant shall name each road
within said partition or subdivision subject to approval of the Community Development Director.

(2)     Upon completion of construction of the road(s), the applicant shall provide and install
standard road name    signs for each   road in the partition or subdivision,   said signs having a
retroreflectorized green background with retroreflectorized white letters as specified in the
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Failure to provide and install standard road name
signs can result in a disapproval of said partition or subdivision.