ARTICLE ONE

DIVISION FIVE                INVENTORYING IMPOUNDED                MOTOR VEHICLES

SECTION      1.05.010        RESERVED

SECTION      1.05.020        AUTHORITY

This Division is enacted pursuant to ORS 203.035.

SECTION      1.05.030        PURPOSE

The purpose of this Division is to provide authority for peace officers to conduct
inventories of impounded vehicles. Such inventories are necessary to protect private
property while in police custody, to reduce or prevent the assertion of false claims for lost
or stolen property, and to protect people and property from any hazardous condition or
instrumentality that may be associated with the vehicles.

SECTION      1.05.040        DEFINITION

“Impounded Vehicle” means any motor vehicle that is lawfully impounded.

SECTION 1.05.050             INVENTORY POLICY

Any peace officer who impounds a motor vehicle shall conduct an inventory of said
motor vehicle as soon as practical. Inventories of impounded vehicles under this
Division shall be conducted according to the policies and procedures of the law
enforcement agency.

SECTION      1.05.060        INVENTORY PROCEDURES

(1)    Every vehicle lawfully impounded by this Sheriff’s Office shall have its contents
inventoried. The purpose of the inventory is:

       (a)    To protect private property while in custody;

       (b)    To reduce or prevent the assertion of false claims for lost or stolen property;
and

Page # 1
       (c)    To protect people and property from any            hazardous   condition   or
instrumentality that may be associated with the vehicle.

(2)    The inventory of property in a vehicle is not a search for evidence of criminal
activity.   Items should be scrutinized only to the extent necessary to complete an
accurate inventory list.    Once completed, the list shall be made a part of the narrative
section of the appropriate report. The inventory should occur as soon as practicable after
the vehicle has been impounded.

(3)     Areas to be inventoried include the entire passenger compartment, uncovered
hatchback, unlocked glove boxes, and unlocked trunks. The contents of locked areas
shall be inventoried if there is an unlocking mechanism provided within the vehicle.

(4)   | Members may seize contraband or evidence of criminal activity discovered during
the inventory.   However,   absent consent from the owner to open a    closed container, or
probable cause to believe the contents of a closed container are subject to search or
seizure without a warrant, closed containers found in the course of an inventory search
shall remain closed unless the containers appears insecure or its contents appears
imminently harmful.

(5)     If, during the inventory, extraordinary valuable property (jewels, watches, cash)
is discovered, that property shall be entered into an evidence locker for safekeeping.

(6)     Allitems seized during an inventory shall be listed on a Property/Evidence form.
A property receipt relating to the seized property shall be given to the owner of the
seized property or to the owner/operator of the vehicle. If no owner is available, the
property receipt may be left in a conspicuous place in or about the vehicle.

Page # 2