Recorded in Deschutes County                        CJ2023-282
                                                                     Dennison,       County        Clerk
         VW
                                                        commissioners       Joural
                                                        Commissioners’ Journal                             (09/11/2023 1:53:10 PM

      LEGAL COUNSEL                                         Oyen

                                                            &
                                                                                                                              |    ||
                                                                -    ‘   x
              Y   vt
                                                            .                    “            3023-282

                                                        |                            For Recording Stamp Only

     BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY              COMMISSIONERS                       OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON

 An Ordinance Amending Title 2.36 and Title 2.37,

                                                                *
 Contracting, of the Deschutes County Code.                                            ORDINANCE NO, 2023-012

                                                                x
        WHEREAS, the Deschutes County Code (DCC) contains rules and regulations duly enacted through
ordinance by Deschutes County and the Deschutes County Board of Commissioners; and

       WHEREAS,        from time-to-time the need arises to make amendments, including new enactments to the
DCC; and

       WHEREAS, staff from Facilities, Administration, and Legal have identified a need to amend DCC 2.36
and DCC 2.37 to reflect state law changes in SB 1047 and also revisions appropriate for county operations; and

        WHEREAS, the Board of County Commissioners of Deschutes County considered this matter at a duly
noticed public hearing during the Board meeting on August 16, 2023, and determined that DCC 2.36 and DCC
2.37 should be amended; now therefore,

         THE BOARD      OF COUNTY     COMMISSIONERS                 OF DESCHUTES              COUNTY,          OREGON,   ORDAINS
as follows:

        Section 1. AMENDMENT. DCC 2.36 and DCC 2.37 are amended to read as described in Exhibit “A,”
attached hereto and by this reference incorporated herein, with new language underlined and language to be
deleted in strikethrough.

        Section 2.   ADOPTION.      This Ordinance takes effect on January 1, 2024.

        Hf

PAGE 1 OF 2 - ORDINANCE NO. 2023-012
Dated this 306         of     MG           - 2023            BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
                                                             OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON

                                                                    Lx    A LY      b~—
                                                             ANTHONY DeBONE, Chair

                                                              Nate dha —
                                                             PATTI ADAIR, Vice Chair
 ATTEST:

 Prrmnole
      Md ol                                                         Ve              CT
 Recording Secretary                                         PHIL CHANG, Commissioner

                                  -
Date of 1st Reading:        | U       day of      fens   , 2023.
                                  ~ond
Date of 2nd Reading:         30          day of   Ais     , 2023.

                                                                                 Record of Adoption Vote
Commissioner                                                         No          Abstained     Excused

                                                              7
                                                               Y
Patti Adair
Phil Chang
Anthony DeBone
                                                              x
Effective date:   1% day of January, 2024.

PAGE 2 OF 2- ORDINANCE NO. 2023-012
EXHIBIT A
(To Ordinance No. 2023-012)
CHAPTER 2.36 LOCAL CONTRACT REVIEW BOARD

2.36.010 Purpose; Statutory Authority
2.36.020 Creation And Functions Of Board
2..36.030 Model Public Contract Rules
2.36.040 Exemptions From Competitive Bidding
2.36.050 Delegation

2.36.010 Purpose: Statutory Authority

The purpose of DCC 2.36 is to authorize the Board to perform the duties of a local contract review board
in lieu of permitting the Public Contract Review Board to perform the functions of reviewing public
contracts as required by Oregon Laws 1975, Chapter 771.

HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 203-8 §1 on 1/21/1976

2.36.020 Creation And Functions Of Board

The Board is designated a local contract review board to perform the functions of the Public Contract
Review Board.

HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 203-8 §2 on 1/21/1976

2.36.030 Model Public Contract Rules

The Attorney General’s Model Public Contract Rules adopted pursuant to operative sections of ORS Chps.
279A, 279B and 279C, shall be the rules of the local contract review board. Procedures for personal
services contracts required by ORS 279A.055 are set forth in DCC 4.06.

HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 97-030 §1 on 4/2/1997
Amended by Ord. 98-092 §1 on 12/16/1998
Amended by Ord. 2003-018 §1 on 6/9/2003
Amended by Ord. 2020-005 §1 on 1/1/2021

2.36.040 Exemptions From Competitive Bidding
HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 98-092 §1 on 12/16/1998
Amended by Ord. 99-035 §1 on 11/24/1999
Amended by Ord. 2000-012 §1 on 5/8/2000
Amended by Ord. 2020-005 §1 on 1/1/2021

Amended by Ord. 2023-012 §1 on 8/16/2023

2.36.050 Delegation

   A.        epting-the-depa              of                      a   ty   ra   al   hay   o   acta   4   AOS,   ’

          $50,000,Eeach County employee and elected official designated as a department head of the
          County is authorized to contract in an amount not to exceed $5025,000 for each contract,
          amendment, and/or change order provided sufficient sums are appropriated and unencumbered
          in the County budget and there are sufficient cash resources available to pay the maximum
          consideration set forth in each contract.

    B.    The County Administrator may award competitive bids and enter into contracts, amendments,
          and/or change orders in an amount not to exceed $2450,000 for each contract, amendment,
          and/or change orderany-singie-contract.

HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 98-092 §1 on 12/16/1998
Amended by Ord. 2000-012 §1 on 5/8/2000
Amended by Ord. 2007-002 §1 on 1/24/2007
Amended by Ord. 2020-005 §1 on 1/1/2021

Amended by Ord. 2023-012 §1 on 8/16/2023
CHAPTER 2.37 PUBLIC CONTRACTING CODE

2.37.010 Purpose; Statutory Authority
2.37.020 Model Public Contract Rules
2.37.030 Public Contract Review Board
2.37.040 Purchasing Agent
2.37.050 Definitions
2.37.060 Signature Authority
2.37.065 Competitive Sealed Proposals (Repealed)
2.37.070 Class Special Procurements
2.37.080 Exemption For Certain Personal Services
2.37.090 Exemption From Sealed Bids Or Proposals
2.37.100 Purchases Through Federal Programs
2..37.110 Contracts For Disposal Of Personal Property
2.37.120 Notice Of Intent To Award; Notice To Proceed And Contract Administration
2.37.130 Qualified Pool
2.37.140 Contested Case Procedures
2.37.150 Standard Contract Provisions
2.37.160 Competitive Electronic Auction Bidding

2.37.010 Purpose: Statutory Authority

The purpose of DCC 2.37 is to implement the provisions of ORS 279A, 279B and 279C, which may be
collectively referred to herein as the Public Contracting Code. This chapter shall be known as the
Deschutes County Contracting Code and may be referred to herein as “this chapter.”

HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 2005-010 §1 on 2/28/2005

2.37.020 Model Public Contract Rules

Exceptas-otherwise             n-this-chapter-e         He-er-erdes   e-Boare-Tthe   Model Rules of Public
Contract+t Procedure, OAR 137, divisions 46, 47, 48 and 49, herein referred to as the Model Rules,
adopted by the Oregon Attorney General, as amended in 2008, and from time to time amended, shall be
the rules of the Deschutes County Contract Review Board. Where-refererce these rules conflict with any
provision of the Public Contracting Code, unless expressly stated that this chapter will apply,is-madein

coerrespending-provisions of the Model Rules shall also-apply.

HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 2005-010 §1 on 2/28/2005
Amended by Ord. 2008-023 §1 on 11/23/2008

Amended by Ord. 2023-012.96 §1 on 8/16/2023DATE
2.37.030 Public Contract Review Board

Except as expressly delegated under this chapter or by Board Resolution, the Board of County
Commissioners, “Board,” acting in its capacity as the governing body of the County or of each and every
County service district, reserves to itself the exercise of all duties and authority of a contract review
board and a contracting agency under state law. Where this chapter refers to the “County,” unless the
context indicates a different meaning, the reference shall mean and include Deschutes County or the
particular County service district for which the Board is the governing body.

HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 2005-010 §1 on 2/28/2005
Amended by Ord. 2008-023 §1 on 11/23/2008

2.37.040 Purchasing Agent

    A.    The County Administrator is designated as the Purchasing Agent of the County and is hereby
          authorized to issue or cause to be issued all solicitations and to award all County contracts for
          which the contract price does not exceed $2450,000. Subject to the provisions of this chapter,
          the Purchasing Agent may adopt and amend all solicitation materials, contracts and forms
          required or permitted to be adopted by contracting agencies under the Public Contracting Code
          or otherwise convenient for the County’s contracting needs.

          in the context of requests for County proposals the department director and in the case of
          county service districts, each administrator, director or managing board, is authorized to
          determine the method of contractor selection and selection criteria.

          Notwithstanding ORS 279B.075, the Purchasing Agent and in the case of county service districts,
          each administrator, director or managing board, is authorized to determine that goods or
          services, or classes of goods or services, are available from only one source, based upon one or
          more of the following findings: (1) that the efficient utilization of existing goods requires the
          acquisition of compatible goods or services; (2) that the goods or services required for the
          exchange of software or data with other public or private agencies are available from only one
          source; (3) that the goods or services are for use in a pilot or experimental project; or (4) other
          findings that support the conclusion that the goods or services are available from only one
          source. In making the determination under this subsection C the Purchasing Agent or other.
          authorized representative shall publish notice at least seven (7) days in advance and consider
          any written comments or objections. At the conclusion of the seven-day notice period written
          findings to justify the sole source determination shall be prepared and placed in the contract file.
          A copy of such findings shall promptly be furnished to all persons who submitted written
          comments or objections.

          In the case of county service districts the director, administrator or managing board is
          designated as the purchasing agent of the district and is hereby authorized to issue all
          solicitations and to award all district contracts for which the contract price does not exceed
          §5025,000 unless otherwise specifically set forth in the operating agreement between the
          County and the district. Subject to the provisions of this chapter, the purchasing agent of the
          district may adopt and amend all solicitation materials, contracts and forms required or
          permitted to be adopted by contracting agencies under the Public Contracting Code or otherwise
          convenient for the district’s contracting needs.

    —E.   Whenever the Oregon State Legislative Assembly enacts laws or the attorney general modifies
          the Model Rules, the County Legal Counsel shall review this chapter and recommend to the
          Board any modifications required to ensure compliance with changes in state law or the Model
          Rules.

HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 2005-010 §1 on 2/28/2005
Amended by Ord. 2008-023 §1 on 11/23/2008

Amended by Ord. 2023-012 §1 on 8/16/2023

2.37.050 Definitions

The following terms used in this chapter shall have the meanings set forth below:

    A.    “Award” means the selection of a person to provide goods, services or public improvements
          under a public contract. The award of a contract is not binding on the County until the contract is
          executed by the person and the County.

          “Bid” means a binding, sealed, written offer to provide goods, services or public improvements
          for a specified price or prices.

          “Concession agreement” means a contract that authorizes and requires a private entity or
          individual to promote or sell, for its own business purposes, specified types of goods or services
          from real property owned or managed by the County, and under which the concessionaire
          makes payments to the County based, at least in part, on the concessionaire’s revenues or sales.
          The term “concession agreement” does not include a mere rental agreement, license or lease for
          the use of premises.

          “Contract price” means the total amount paid or to be paid under a contract, including any
          approved alternates, and any fully executed change orders or amendments.

          “Debarment” means a declaration by the Purchasing Agent or the Board under ORS 279B.130 or
          ORS 279C.440 that prohibits a potential contractor from competing for the County’s public
          contracts for a prescribed period of time.

          “Disposal” means any arrangement for the transfer of personal property by the County under
          which the County relinquishes ownership.

          “Emergency” means circumstances that: (1) could not have been reasonably foreseen; (2)
          creates a substantial risk of loss, damage or interruption of services or a substantial threat to
          property, public health, welfare or safety; and (3) requires prompt execution of a contract to
          remedy the condition.

          “Findings” are the statements of fact that provide justification for a determination. Findings may
          include, but are not limited to, information regarding operation, budget and financial data;
          public benefits; cost savings; competition in public contracts; quality and aesthetic
  considerations, value engineering; specialized expertise needed; public safety; market
  conditions; technical complexity; availability, performance and funding sources.

  “Goods” means any item or combination of supplies, equipment, materials or other personal
  property, including any tangible, intangible and intellectual property and rights and licenses in
  relation thereto.

  “Informal solicitation” means a solicitation made in accordance with the Contracting Code and
  this chapter to a limited number of potential contractors, in which the Solicitation Agent
  attempts to obtain at least three quotes or proposals.

  “Invitation to bid” means a publicly advertised request for competitive sealed bids.

  “Offeror” means a person who submits a bid, quote or proposal to enter into a public contract
  with the County.

. “Personal services contract” means a contract with an independent contractor predominantly
  for services that require special training or certification, skill, technical, creative, professional or
  communication skills or talents, unique and specialized knowledge, or the exercise of judgment
  or skills, and for which the quality of the service depends on attributes that are unique to the
  service provider. Personal services include, but are not limited to, the services of architects,
  engineers, land surveyors, attorneys, auditors and other licensed professionals, artists,
  designers, computer programmers, performers, consultants and property managers. The
  Purchasing Agent or the Board shall have discretion to determine whether additional types of
  services not specifically mentioned in this paragraph fit within the definition of personal
  services.

  “Proposal” means a binding offer to provide goods, services or public improvements with the
  understanding that acceptance will depend on the evaluation of factors other than, or in
  addition to, price. A Proposal may be made in response to a request for proposals or under an
  informal solicitation.

  “Qualified pool” means a pool of vendors who are pre-qualified to compete for the award of
                  |”

  contracts for certain types of contracts or to provide certain types of services.

  “Quote” means a price offer made in response to an informal or qualified pool solicitation to
  provide goods, services or public improvements.

  “Request for proposals” means a publicly advertised request for sealed competitive proposals.

  “Services” means and includes all types of services (including construction labor} other than
  personal services.

 “Solicitation” means an invitation to one or more potential contractors to submit a bid, proposal,
 quote, statement of qualifications or letter of interest to the County with respect to a proposed
 project, procurement or other contracting opportunity. The word “solicitation” also refers to the
 process by which the County requests, receives and evaluates potential contractors and awards
 public contracts.
          “Solicitation Agent” means with respect to a particular solicitation or contract, the County
          employee charged with responsibility for conducting the solicitation and making an award, or
          making a recommendation on award to a department head, the Purchasing Agent or the Board.

          “Solicitation documents” means all informational materials issued by the County for a
          solicitation, including, but not limited to advertisements, instructions, submission requirements
          and schedules, award criteria, contract terms and specifications, and all laws, regulations and
          documents incorporated by reference.

          “Surplus property” means personal property owned by the County, which is no longer needed
          for use by the department to which such property has been assigned.

HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 2005-010 §1 on 2/28/2005
Amended by Ord. 2008-023 §1 on 11/23/2008

2.37.060 Signature Authority

   A.     Excepting -the-department-headoftheHealth     Department whe-shall have        contract authority
          $50,000-Eeach County Department Head and each elected County official designated ;asa
          department head (unless expressly provided otherwise by the Board of County Commissioners)
          is authorized to award competitive bids and proposals and enter into contracts, amendments,
          and/or change orders in an amount not to exceed $5025,000 for each contract, amendment,
          and/or change ordercentract, provided sufficient sums are appropriated and unencumbered in
          the County or, as applicable, district budget and there are sufficient cash resources available to
          pay the maximum consideration set forth in each and every contract,

          The County Administrator is authorized to award competitive bids and proposals and enter into
          contracts, amendments, and/or change orders in an amount not to exceed $2450,000 for each
          any-single contract, amendment, and/or change order provided sufficient sums are appropriated
          and unencumbered in the County budget and there are sufficient cash resources available to pay
          the maximum consideration set forth in each and every contract. For purposes of this subsection
          contracts shall include agreements between the county and any public entity, including federal,
          state and local governments.

          In determining the monetary limits of authority to enter into contracts, amendments, and/or
          change orders on behalf of the County, the cost or price for the specific contract, amendment,
          and/or change order entive-term,-including-optionalrenewals shall be considered.

HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 2005-010 §1 on 2/28/2005
Amended by Ord. 2008-023 §1 on 11/23/2008
Amended by Ord. 2014-024 §1 on 8/27/2014
Amended by Ord. 2020-005 §1 on 1/1/2021

Amended by Ord. 2023-012 §1 on 8/16/2023

2.37.065 Competitive Sealed Proposals (Repealed)
HISTORY
Repealed by Ord. 2014-024 on 8/27/2014

2.37.070 Class Special Procurements

   A.     The County may award a public contract under a Class Special Procurement pursuant to the
          requirements of ORS 279B.085. Such procurements allow the County to enter into one or more
          contracts over time without following the requirements of competitive sealed bidding,
          competitive sealed proposals or intermediate procurements.

   B.     The Board of County Commissioners declares the following as classes of special procurements.
          Such contracts may be awarded in any manner, which the Solicitation Agent deems appropriate
          to the County’s needs, including by direct appointment or purchase. Except where otherwise
          provided the Solicitation Agent shall make a record of the method of award.

              1.   Manufacturer Direct Supplies. The County may purchase goods directly from a
                   manufacturer without competitive bidding if a large volume purchase is required and
                   the cost from the manufacturer is the same or less than the cost the manufacturer
                   charges to its distributor(s). Procurements of this type are made on a contract-by-
                   contract basis and are not requirements contracts.

                   Purchase of Advertising Contracts. Contracts for the placing of notices or advertisements
                   may be published in any medium.

                   Contracts Up to $2549,000. Contracts of any type for which the contract price does not
                   exceed $2540,000 without a record of the method of award.

                   Copyrighted Materials; Library Materials. The County may purchase copyrighted
                   materials where there is only one known supplier available for such goods. This includes,
                   but is not limited to, works of art, books, periodicals, curriculum materials, reference
                   materials, audio and visual media, training materials in any media and non-mass
                   marketed software from a particular publisher or its designated distributor.

                   Requirements Contracts. The County may competitively select a vendor to provide
                   specified goods and services that are routine or repetitive over a defined contract term
                   at particular prices even though the precise volume or number of such purchases is not
                   known in advance.

                   Use of Existing Contractors. When a public improvement is in need of minor alteration or
                   repair at or near the site of work being performed by another County contractor, the
                   County may hire that contractor to perform the work, provided:

                       a.   The contractor was hired through a selection process permitted by County Code;

                       b.   The Solicitation Agent first obtains a price quotation for the additional work
                            from the contractor that is competitive and reasonable;
              The total cost of the proposed work and the original work will not exceed the
              Bureau of Labor and Industries’ prevailing wage threshold; and

              The original contract is amended to reflect the new work and is approved by the
              Purchasing Agent before work begins.

7.   Purchase of Used Personal Property or Equipment. The County may directly purchase
     used personal property and equipment if such property is suitable for the County’s
     needs and can be purchased for a lower cost than substantially similarly new property.
     For this purpose the cost of used property shall be based upon the life-cycle cost of the
     property over the period for which the property will be used by the County.

8.   Hazardous Material Removal and Oil Clean-up. When ordered to clean up or remove
     hazardous material or oil by the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality, the
     County may directly acquire such services from any qualified or certified vendor. In doing
     so, the following conditions apply:

         a.   To the extent reasonable under the circumstances, encourage competition by
              attempting to obtain informal price quotations or proposals from potential
              suppliers of goods and services.

              The county department responsible for managing or coordinating the clean-up
              shall prepare and submit to the Purchasing Agent a written description of the
              circumstances that require it and a copy of the DEQ order for the cleanup ,
              together with a request for contract authorization;

              The county department shall record whether there was time for competition,
              and, if so, the measures taken to encourage competition, the amount of the
              price quotations obtained, if any, and the reason for selecting the contractor to
              whom     award is made; and

              The timeline for cleanup does not permit use of intermediate or formal
              procurement procedures.

9.   Change orders and amendments to contracts and price agreements. The County may
     execute contract amendments and change orders, as follows:

         a.   An original valid contract exists between the parties;

         b.   The change order is within the general scope of the contract;

              The change order is implemented in accordance with the change provisions of
              the contract;

              The amount of the aggregate cost change resulting from all change orders does
              not exceed twenty-five (25%) of the initia! contract; and

              The change order does not modify the contract’s terms and conditions except to
              reflect a change in:

                  1.   the amount of payments;
                 2.   technical specifications, time of delivery, place of delivery, form of
                      delivery, quantity or manufacturer of services or goods;

                 3.   completion date of the project;

                4,    any combination of the foregoing under the Contract; and,

                4.5.{5}the amounts of any applicable performance and payment bonds are
                    proportionally increased.

        f.   Contract change orders are authorized under this subsection where the original
             contractor is allegedly in default and the contractor’s surety can provide
             substitute performance pursuant to the original contract to complete or correct
             the work at hand.

10. Concession Agreements. Contracts entered into by the Fair and Expo Center which grant
    a franchise or concession to a private entity or individual to promote or sell, for its own
   business purposes, specified types of goods or services from all or a portion of the
   fairgrounds and under which the concessionaire or promoter makes payments to the
    Fair and Expo Center based, at least in part, on the concessionaire’s revenues from sales
   or the value of such promotion to the sponsor’s business, whether on or off the
   fairgrounds property. The Director of the Fair and Expo Center shall, subject to approval
   of the Deschutes County Fair Board, prepare and implement selection criteria, based
   upon the proprietary nature of the Fair and Expo Center. A Concession Agreement does
    not include an agreement, which represents a rental, lease, license, permit or other
    arrangement for the use of public property. The Fair and Expo Center Director may
    award concession agreements in connection with the annual fair by any method
    deemed appropriate by the Director, including without limitation, by direct
    appointment, private negotiation, from a qualified pool, or using a competitive process.

11. Equipment Repair. Contracts for equipment repair or overhauling, provided the service
    or parts required are unknown and the cost cannot be determined without extensive
    preliminary dismantling or testing.

12. Abandoned, Seized and Non-Owned Personal Property. Contracts or arrangements for
    the sale or other disposal of abandoned, seized or other personal property not owned
    by the County at the time the County obtains possession are not subject to competitive
    procurement procedures.

13. Sponsorship Agreements. Sponsorship agreements, under which the County receives a
    gift, donation or consideration in exchange for official recognition of the person making
    the donation or payment may be awarded by any method deemed appropriate by the
    County, including without limitation, by direct appointment, negotiation, from a
    qualified pool, or using a competitive process.

14. Renewals. Contracts that are being renewed in accordance with their terms (and may
    include a fiscal adjustment not exceeding one-half of the established CPI January —
               January COLA) are not considered to be newly issued Contracts and are not subject to
                competitive procurement procedures.

            15. Temporary Extensions or Renewals. Contracts for a single period of one year or less, for
                the temporary extension or renewal of an expiring and non-renewable, or recently
                expired contract, other than a contract for public improvements.

            16. Temporary Use of County-Owned Property. The County may negotiate and enter into a
                license, permit or other contract for the temporary use of County-owned property
                without using a competitive selection process if:

                    a.   The contract results from an unsolicited proposal to the County based on the
                         unique attributes of the property or the unique needs of the proposer;

                    b.   The proposed use of the property is consistent with the County’s use of the
                         property and the public interest; and

                    c.   The County reserves the right to terminate the contract without penalty, in the
                         event that the County determines that the contract is no longer consistent with
                         the County’s present or planned use of the property or the public interest.

            17. Event agreements between the Fair and Expo Center and private parties, which
                represent a rental, lease, license, permit or other arrangement for the use of a portion
                of the fairgrounds property whether a fee is paid or not.

            18. Franchises for cable television and for collection and disposal or processing of solid
                waste and recyclable material.

            19. Leases and revocable permits for use of county-owned real property, including right-of-
                way.

            20. Contracts for paper products which are specified to be used in conjunction with the
                County Clerk’s election ballot tabulation equipment.

            21. Collective bargaining agreements

            22. Contracts with area humane societies, which generally involve receipt, care for and
                disposition of stray domestic animals.

HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 2005-010 §1 on 2/28/2005
Amended by Ord. 2008-023 §1 on 11/23/2008
Amended by Ord. 2014-024 §1 on 8/27/2014
Amended by Ord. 2020-005 §1 on 1/1/2021

Amended by Ord. 2023-012 §1 on 8/16/2023

2.37.080 Exemption For Certain Personal Services

   A.   The County may award contracts for personal services, as defined in DCC 2.37.050, under the
        procedures of ORS 279C.100 through 279C.125 and the Model Rules which implement such
statutes, or subsection B of this section without following the selection procedures set forth
elsewhere in the Model Rules.

Direct Appointment. In any of the following circumstances a qualified provider of personal
services may be appointed under any method deemed in the County’s best interest by the
Solicitation Agent, including by direct appointment.

    1.   Under circumstances which could not reasonably have been foreseen which create a
         substantial risk of loss, damage, interruption of services or threat to the public health
         and safety and require the prompt performance of the services to remedy the situation;
         or

    2.   Where the estimated fee does not exceed $725,000 in any fiscal year or $2450,000 over
         the full term, including optional renewals; or

    3.   Contracts of not more than $2450,000 for the continuation of work by a contractor who
         performed preliminary studies, analysis or planning for the work under a prior contract
         may be awarded without competition if the prior contract was awarded under a
         competitive process and the Solicitation Agent determines that use of the original
         contractor will significantly reduce the costs of or risks associated with the work.

    4.   Contracts for maintenance, repair and technical support for computer hardware,
         software and networking systems.

    5.   Services provided by a psychologist, psychiatrist or psychiatric nurse practitioner.

Direct appointment pursuant to this section shall be competitive to the extent practicable and
may be based upon criteria which include without limitation the provider’s experience, available
resources, the project’s location and the provider’s pricing.

The County may select a provider of personal services under this section from a qualified pool,
or from:

    1.   The County’s current list of qualified providers;

    2.   From another public contracting agency’s current list of qualified providers pursuant to
         an intergovernmental agreement; or

    3.   From among all qualified providers offering the necessary services that the County can
         reasonably locate under the circumstances.

Design-Build or Construction Manager/General Contractor. Contracts for the construction of
public improvements using a design/build or construction manager/general contractor
construction method shall be awarded under a request for proposals. The determination to
construct a project using a design/build or construction manager/general contractor
construction method must be approved by the Board or its designee, upon application of the
Purchasing Agent and in compliance with competitive bidding requirements as specified in ORS
279A.065(3).
HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 2005-010 §1 on 2/28/2005
Amended by Ord. 2008-023 §1 on 11/23/2008
Amended by Ord. 2014-024 §1 on 8/27/2014

Amended by Ord. 2023-012 §1 on 8/16/2023

2.37.090 Exemption From Sealed Bids Or Proposals

In addition to the contracts not subject to the Public Contracting Code, pursuant to ORS 279A.025, and
contracts which are exempt from competitive bidding and proposal requirements under this chapter,
contracts may be awarded as follows:

   A.     Contracts, other than contracts for personal services, may be awarded without competitive
          sealed bids under ORS 279B. 055 and without competitive sealed proposals under ORS
          279B.060, pursuant to ORS 279B.065, 279B.070, 279B.075, 279B.080, or 279B.085 and the
          Model Rules for the following classes of cases:

              1.   The Purchasing Agent determines that an emergency condition exists which requires
                   prompt execution of a contract. The determination shall be made prior to execution of a
                   contract and part of the acquisition record. Exemption under this paragraph shall include
                   exemption from bid security and payment and performance bond requirements. An
                   amendment to any contract entered into pursuant to this paragraph shall be approved in
                   accordance with required procurement procedures.

              2.   Contracts under $2540,000 need not be awarded competitively.

              3.   Contracts exceeding $2519,000 but not exceeding $2450,000, where competitive quotes
                   or proposals are obtained.

    B.    Where a contract is awarded under paragraphs 3 of subsection A of this section, the department
          awarding the contract shall obtain at least three (3) informally solicited quotes or proposals, if
          possible; shall document in its records the quotes and proposals received, and if fewer than
          three, the effort that was made to obtain quotes or proposals. A quote or proposal received by
          telephone shall be considered a written quote when it is recorded in records of the County. A
          quote or proposal received by email shall be considered a written quote or proposal when it is
          received by the County.

   C.     If acontract is awarded under this section, the County shall award the contract to the offeror
          whose quote or proposal will best serve the County’s interests, taking into account price, as well
          as, considerations including, but not limited to experience, expertise, product functionality,
          suitability for a particular purpose and contractor responsibility under ORS 279B.110.

    D.    The Board may approve a contract specific special procurement if it finds after giving notice
          pursuant to ORS 279B.055(4) that a written request submitted by the Purchasing Agent
          demonstrates that the use of a special procurement as described in the request, or in alternative
          procedures described by the Purchasing Agent will:
              1.    Be unlikely to encourage favoritism in the awarding of public contracts or to substantially
                    diminish competition for public contracts; and

              2.    Is reasonably expected to result in substantial cost savings to the county or to the public,
                    or otherwise substantially promote the public interest in a manner that could not
                    practicably be realized by complying with requirements that are applicable under ORS
                    279B.055, 279B.060, 279B.065 or 279B.070.

    E.    Unless otherwise provided in the contract or purchase order, the provisions of Section 2.37.150
          shall apply to all contracts entered into pursuant to this section.

HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 2008-023 §1 on 11/23/2008
Amended by Ord. 2014-024 §1 on 8/27/2014

Amended by Ord. 2023-012 §1 on 8/16/2023

2.37.100 Purchases Through Federal Programs

Goods and services may be purchased without competitive procedures under a local government
purchasing program administered by the United States General Services Administration (“GSA”) as
provided in this section.

   A.     The procurement must be made in accordance with procedures established by GSA for
          procurements by local governments, and under purchase orders or contracts submitted to and
          approved by the Purchasing Agent or the Board. The Solicitation Agent shall provide the
          Purchasing Agent with a copy of the letter, memorandum or other documentation from GSA
          establishing permission to the County to purchase under the federal program.

          The price of the goods or services must be established under price agreements between the
          federally approved vendor and GSA.

   C.     The price of the goods or services must be less than the price at which such goods or services
          are available under state or local cooperative purchasing programs that are available to the
          County.

          If a single purchase of goods or services exceeds $21:50,000, the Solicitation Agent must obtain
          informal written quotes or proposals from at least two additional vendors (if reasonably
          available) and find, in writing, that the goods or services offered by GSA represent the best value
          for the County. This subsection does not apply to the purchase of equipment manufactured or
          sold solely for military or law enforcement purposes.

HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 2005-010 §1 on 2/28/2005
Amended by Ord. 2008-023 §1 on 11/23/2008

Amended by Ord. 2023-012 §1 on 8/16/2023

2.37.110 Contracts For Disposal Of Personal Property
A.   General Methods. Except as otherwise provided in subsection E of this section, surplus property
     may be disposed of by any of the following methods upon a determination by the Solicitation
     Agent that the method of disposal is in the best interest of the County. Factors that may be
     considered by the Solicitation Agent include costs of sale, administrative costs, and public
     benefits to the County. The Solicitation Agent shall maintain a record of the reason for the
     disposal method selected, and the manner of disposal, including the name of the person to
     whom the surplus property was transferred.

         1.   Governments. Without competition, by transfer or sale to another County department
              or public agency.

         2.   Auction. By publicly advertised auction to the highest bidder.

         3.   Bids. By publicly advertised invitation to bid.

         4.   Liquidation Sale. By liquidation sale using a commercially recognized third-party
              liquidator selected in accordance with rules for the award of personal services contracts.

         5.   Fixed Price Sale. The Solicitation Agent may establish a selling price based upon an
              independent appraisal or published schedule of values generally accepted by the
              insurance industry, schedule and advertise a sale date, and sell to the first buyer meeting
              the sales terms.

         6.   Trade-In. By trade-in, in conjunction with acquisition of other price-based items under a
              competitive solicitation. The solicitation shall require the offer to state the total value
              assigned to the surplus property to be traded.

         7.   Donation. By donation to any organization operating within or providing a service to
              residents of the County which is recognized by the Internal Revenue Service as an
              organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
              amended.

B.   Disposal of Property with Minimal Value. Surplus property which has a value of less than $1500,
     or for which the costs of sale are likely to exceed sale proceeds may be disposed of by any means
     determined to be cost-effective, including by disposal as waste. The official making the disposal
     shall make a record of the value of the item and the manner of disposal.

C.   Personal-Use Items. An item (or indivisible set) of specialized and personal use with a current
     value of less than $2400, other than police officer’s handguns which may exceed $2400 in value,
     may be sold to the employee or retired or terminated employee for whose use it was purchased.
     These items may be sold for fair market value without bid and by a process deemed most
     efficient by the Purchasing Agent or the Board.

D.   Restriction on Sale to County Employees. County employees shall not be restricted from
     competing, as members of the public, for the purchase of publicly sold surplus property, but
     shall not be permitted to offer to purchase property to be sold to the first qualifying bidder until
     at least three days after the first date on which notice of the sale is first publicly advertised.
    E.    The provisions of this section are in addition to other methods of disposition of surplus county
          property provided by DCC chapter 2.70, state law or analogous provisions of federal law.

HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 2005-010 §1 on 2/28/2005
Amended by Ord. 2008-023 §1 on 11/23/2008
Amended by Ord. 2020-005 §1 on 1/1/2021

Amended by Ord. 2023-012 §1 on 8/16/2023

2.37.120 Notice Of Intent To Award; Notice To Proceed And Contract Administration

   A.     At least seven (7) days before the award of a public contract, unless the Purchasing Agent or the
          Board determines that seven days is impractical, the Purchasing Agent shall post on the county’s
          website or provide each bidder or proposer notice of the county’s intent to award a contract.
          This subsection does not apply to a contract awarded as a small procurement under ORS
          279B.065, an intermediate procurement under ORS 279B.070, a sole-source procurement under
          ORS 279B.075, an emergency procurement under ORS 279B.080 or a special procurement under
          ORS 279B.085.

          Unless a timely protest is received and after issuing notice in accordance with subsection A of
          this section, if required, the Purchasing Agent shall prepare a contract in accordance with the
          contractor selection results and furnish same for the contractor’s execution.

          After the contractor has executed the contract and furnished bonds, if required, and proofs of
          insurance the Purchasing Agent shail execute the contract, if within the Purchasing Agent’s
          authority, or submit same to the Board for approval.

          if the Board approves the contract, it shall adopt an order or otherwise authorize the Purchasing
          Agent to execute the contract and to approve change orders within the scope of 2.37.080.B.9 or
          amendments within the scope of the project for which the contract has been prepared.

          The contractor shall not begin work under the contract until the contract is fully executed and in
          the case of public works contracts the county has issued and delivered a Notice to Proceed.

          For purchases of goods the county may indicate in the solicitation that the selected contractor
          will be issued a purchase order, which refers to 2.37.150 for required contract terms.

HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 2005-010 §1 on 2/28/2005
Amended by Ord. 2008-023 §1 on 11/23/2008

2.37.130 Qualified Pool

   A.     General. To create a qualified pool, the Purchasing Agent or Board may invite prospective
          contractors to submit proposals to the County for inclusion as participants in a pool of
          contractors qualified to provide certain types of goods, services, or projects including personal
          services, and public improvements.
The invitation to participate in a qualified pool shall be advertised in the manner provided for
advertisements of invitations to bid and requests for proposals by publication in at least one
newspaper of general statewide circulation. If qualification will be for a term that exceeds one
year or allows open entry on a continuous basis, the invitation to participate in the pool must be
re-published at least once per year and shall be posted at the County’s main office and on its
website.

Contents of Solicitation. Requests for participation in a qualified pool shall describe the scope of
goods or services or projects for which the pool will be maintained, and the minimum
qualifications for participation in the pool, which may include, but shall not be limited to
qualifications related to financial stability, contracts with manufacturers or distributors,
certification as an emerging smail business, insurance, licensure, education, training, experience
and demonstrated skills of key personnel, access to equipment, and other relevant qualifications
that are important to the contracting needs of the County. The solicitation may provide that
proposals will be evaluated and decisions over participation will be made based upon proposers
meeting minimum qualifications, as well as the price or rate of compensation for particular
services in the county’s best interest.

The operation of each qualified pool may be governed by the provisions of a retainer contract to
which the County and each qualified pool participant is a party. The Contract shall contain or
incorporate by reference all terms required by the County, including, without limitation, price,
performance, business registration or licensure, continuing education, equipment, staff
resources, insurance, required standard contract terms as set forth in Section 2.37.150 and
requirements for the submission, on an annual or other periodic basis, of evidence of continuing
qualification. The selection procedures shall be objective and open to all qualified pool
participants and afford all participants the opportunity to compete for or receive job awards.
Unless expressly provided in the retainer contract, participation in a qualified pool will not
entitle a participant to an award of any County contract. The county will refer to the qualified
pool participants or any subset of such pool established by the County in determining when
particular services are needed, and select the most appropriate participant for award of a
contract, which may be based upon County solicitation of additional competitive proposals.

Use of Qualified Pools. Subject to the provisions of these regulations concerning methods of
solicitation for classes of contracts, the Solicitation Agent or the Board shall award all contracts
for goods or services of the type for which a qualified pool is created from among the qualified
participants, unless the Solicitation Agent or the Board determines that best interests of the
County require traditional solicitation, in which case, pool participants shall be notified of the
solicitation and invited to submit competitive proposals.

Amendment and Termination. The Purchasing Agent or the County may discontinue a qualified
pool at any time, or may change the requirements for eligibility as a participant in the pool at
any time, by giving notice to all participants in the qualified pool.

Protest of Failure to Qualify. The Purchasing Agent shall notify any applicant who fails to qualify
for participation in a pool that it may appeal a qualified pool decision to the Board in the manner
described in section 2.37.140.
HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 2005-010 §1 on 2/28/2005
Amended by Ord. 2008-023 §1 on 11/23/2008

2.37.140 Contested Case Procedures

   A.     Any person who has been debarred from competing for County contracts or for whom
          prequalification has been denied, revoked or revised, or who would be entitled under the Public
          Contracting Code and who wishes to file a protest must appeal the County’s decision to the
          Board as provided in this section. The Board may conduct a de novo hearing or appoint a hearing
          officer to conduct such a hearing and recommend a decision, in which case the Board shall
          consider the matter on the record developed by the hearing officer, and, if specifically allowed
          by the Board, on de novo review or limited de novo review.

    B.    For purposes of this section, “Party” means:

              1.   Each person entitled as of right to a hearing before the Board;

              2.   Each person named by the County to be a party; or

              3.   Any person requesting to participate before the agency as a party or in a limited party
                   status which the County determines either has an interest in the outcome of the
                   County’s proceeding or represents a public interest in such result.

    C.    Filing of Appeal. The person must file and the County must receive a written (hard copy, not fax
          or electronic) notice of appeal with the Purchasing Agent no later than seven (7) days after the
          prospective contractor’s receipt of notice of the County’s decision which is the subject of the
          protest. If the seventh day falls on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, the deadline shall be
          extended to the next regular business day. The notice of the County’s decision shall be deemed
          received no later than three (3) days after the date on which the County makes the decision.
          Except as otherwise provided in this section, the contents and filing of protests shall be in
          accordance with the Public Contracting Code (ORS 279B.400 to 279B.425} and the Model Public
          Contracting Rules (OAR 137-047-0700 to 137-047-0800).

    D.    Parties may elect to be represented by counsel and to respond and present evidence and
          argument on all issues involved.

    E.    Unless precluded by law, informal disposition may be made of any case by stipulation, agreed
          settlement, consent order, default or written agreement.

    F.    Members of the Board shall place on the record a statement of the substance of any written or
          oral ex parte communications on a fact in issue made to the member during the pendency of the
          proceeding and notify the parties of the communication and of their right to rebut such
          communications.

    G.    The record in support of a decision shall be made at the time set for hearing or any extension
          thereof approved by the Board. Testimony may be given without oath or affirmation. Cross-
          examination of witnesses by parties shall not be allowed. Provided however, the Board may
          question any witness appearing before it. A verbatim oral, written or mechanical record shall be
          made of all motions, rulings and testimony. The Board presiding at the hearing shall ensure that
          the record developed at the hearing shows a full and fair inquiry into the facts necessary for
          consideration of all issues properly before the presiding officer. The record need not be
          transcribed unless requested for purposes of court review. The party requesting transcription
          shall pay the cost thereof unless the Board determines on affidavit the indigence of the
          requesting party.

   H.     Evidence in contested cases. In contested cases:

              1.   Irrelevant, immaterial or unduly repetitious evidence shall be excluded but erroneous
                   rulings on evidence shall not preclude action on the record unless shown to have
                   substantially prejudiced the rights of a party. All other evidence of a type commonly
                   relied upon by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct of their serious affairs shall be
                   admissible. The Board shall give effect to the rules of privilege recognized by law.
                   Objections to evidentiary offers may be made and shall be noted in the record. Any part
                   of the evidence may be received in written form.

              2.   All evidence shall be offered and made a part of the record in the case, and except for
                   matters stipulated to and except as provided in paragraph (4) of this subsection, no
                   other factual information or evidence shall be considered in the determination of the
                   case. Documentary evidence may be received in the form of copies or excerpts, or by
                   incorporation by reference. The burden of presenting evidence to support a fact or
                   position in a case rests on the proponent of the fact or position.

              3.   Every party shall have the right to submit rebuttal evidence.

              4.   The Board may take notice of judicially cognizable facts. Parties shall be notified at any
                   time during the proceeding but in any event prior to the fina! decision of material
                   officially noticed and they shall be afforded an opportunity to contest the facts so
                   noticed.

              5.   Cross-examination of witnesses is not allowed, however, questions may be tendered to
                   the chair who may then direct all or some of such questions to a witness.

   |.     Costs. The Board may allocate the County's costs for the hearing between the appellant and the
          County. The allocation shall be based upon facts found by the Board and stated in the Board's
          decision that, in the Board’s opinion, warrant such allocation of costs. If the County does not
          allocate costs, the costs shall be paid by the appellant, if the decision is upheld, or by the County,
          if the decision is overturned.

   J.     The Board shall issue a written, proposed final order, including findings of fact and conclusions of
          law, and furnish a copy thereof on all parties. The proposed order shall become final no later
          than seven (7) days following the date of the proposed order, unless the Board within that
          period issues an amended order.

HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 2005-010 §1 on 2/28/2005
Amended by Ord. 2008-023 §1 on 11/23/2008
2.37.150 Standard Contract Provisions

   A.   Except as otherwise provided in the solicitation document or otherwise approved by the
        Purchasing Agent or County Lega! Counsel, the following standard public contract provisions
        shall be included expressly, by reference or by URL hyperlink where appropriate, in every
        contract of the County.

            1.   Contractor shall make payment promptly, as due, to all persons supplying to such
                 contractor labor or material for the prosecution of the work provided for in the contract,
                 and shall be responsible for payment to such persons supplying labor or material to any
                 subcontractor.

                 Contractor shail pay promptly all contributions or amounts due to the State Industrial
                 Accident Fund and the State Unemployment Compensation Fund from contractor or any
                 subcontractor in connection with the performance of the contract.

                 Contractor shall not permit any lien or claim to be filed or prosecuted against the County
                 on account of any labor or material furnished, shall assume responsibility for satisfaction
                 of any lien so filed or prosecuted and shall defend against, indemnify and hold County
                 harmless from any such lien or claim.

                 Contractor and any subcontractor shall pay to the Department of Revenue all sums
                 withheld from employees pursuant to ORS 316.167.

                 For public improvement and construction contracts only, if contractor fails, neglects or
                 refuses to make prompt payment of any claim for labor or services furnished to the
                 contractor or a subcontractor by any person in connection with the public contract as
                 such claim becomes due, the County may pay such claim to the person furnishing the
                 labor or services and charge the amount of the payment against funds due or to become
                 due the contractor by reason of the contract. The payment of a claim in a manner
                 authorized hereby shall not relieve the contractor or its surety from the obligation with
                 respect to any unpaid claim. If the County is unable to determine the validity of any
                 claim for labor or services furnished, the County may withhold from any current
                 payment due contractor an amount equal to said claim until its validity is determined,
                 and the claim, if valid, is paid by the contractor or the County. There shall be no final
                 acceptance of the work under the contract until all such claims have been resolved.

                 Contractor shall make payment promptly, as due, to any person, co-partnership,
                 association or corporation furnishing medical, surgical, hospital or other needed care
                 and attention, incident to sickness or injury, to the employees of contractor, of all sums
                 which the contractor agreed to pay or collected or deducted from the wages of
                 employees pursuant to any law, contract or agreement for the purpose of providing
                 payment for such service.

                 With certain exceptions listed below, contractor shall not require or permit any person
                 to work more than 10 hours in any one day, or 40 hours in any one week except in case
                 of necessity, emergency, or where public policy absolutely requires it, and in such cases
                 the person shall be paid at least time and a half for:
        a.   All overtime in excess of eight hours a day or 40 hours in any one week when the
             work week is five consecutive days, Monday through Friday, or

        b.   All overtime in excess of 10 hours a day or 40 hours in any one week when the
             work week is four consecutive days, Monday through Friday, and

        c.   All work performed on the day specified in ORS 279B.020(1) for non-public
             improvement contracts or ORS 279C.540(1) for public improvement contracts.

    For personal service contracts as designated under ORS 279A.055, instead of (a) and (b)
    above, a laborer shall be paid at least time and a half for all overtime worked in excess of
   40 hours in any one week, except for individuals under these contracts who are excluded
   under ORS 653.010 or 653.261 or under 29 USC Sections 201 to 209, from receiving
    overtime.

   Contractor shall follow all other exceptions, pursuant to ORS 279B.235 (for non-public
   improvement contracts) and ORS 279C.540 (for improvement contracts), including
   contracts involving collective bargaining agreements, contracts for services and contracts
   for fire prevention and suppression. This paragraph 7 does not apply to contracts for
   purchase of goods or personal property.

    Contractor must give notice to employees who work on a public contract in writing,
    either at the time of hire or before commencement of work on the contract, or by
    posting a notice in a location frequented by employees, of the number of hours per day
    and days per week that the employees may be required to work.

   The hourly rate of wage to be paid by any contractor or subcontractor to workers upon
   all public works shall be not less than the applicable prevailing rate of wage for an hour’s
   work in the same trade or occupation in the locality where such labor is performed, in
    accordance with ORS 279C.800 to ORS 279C.850. For projects covered by the federal
    Davis-Bacon Act (40 USC 276a), contractor and subcontractor shall pay workers the
    higher of the state or federal prevailing rate of wage.

   The contractor, its subcontractors, if any, and all employers working under the contract
   are subject employers under the Oregon Workers’ Compensation Law and shall comply
   with ORS 656.017, or otherwise be exempt under ORS 656.126.

10. As to public improvement and construction contracts, Contractor shall comply with all
    applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including but not limited to
    those dealing with the prevention of environmental pollution and the preservation of
    natural resources that affect the performance of the contract. Entities which have
   enacted such laws or regulations include the following: Federal: Department of
   Agriculture, Forest Service, Soil Conservation Service, Army Corps of Engineers,
    Department of Energy, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission,       Environmental
   Protection Agency, Department of Health and Human Services, Department of Housing
   and Urban Development, Solar Energy and Energy Conservation Bank, Department of
    Interior, Bureau of Land Management,    Bureau of indian Affairs, Bureau of Mines, Bureau
    of Reclamation, Geological Survey, Minerals Management Service, U.S. Fish and Wildlife
    Service, Department of Labor, Mine Safety and Health Administration, Occupational
    Safety and Health Administration, Department of Transportation, Coast Guard, Federal
    Highway Administration, Water Resources Council, and Department of Homeland
    Security. State: Department of Administrative Services, Department of Agriculture,
    Columbia River Gorge Commission, Department of Consumer and Business Services,
    Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division, Department of Energy, Department of
    Environmental Quality, Department of Fish and Wildlife, Department of Forestry,
    Department of Geology and Mineral Industries, Department of Human Resources,
    Department of Land Conservation and Development, Department of Parks and
    Recreation, Soil and Water Conservation Commission, State Engineer, Department of
    Transportation, State Land Board, Water Resources Department. Local: City Councils,
    County Boards of Commissioners, County Service Districts, Sanitary Districts, Water
    Districts, Fire Protection Districts, Historical Preservation Commissions and Planning
    Commissions.

    if new or amended statutes, ordinances, or regulations are adopted, or the contractor
    encounters a condition not referred to in the bid document not caused by the contractor
    and not discoverable by reasonable site inspection which requires compliance with
    federal, state, or local laws or regulations dealing with the prevention of environmental
    pollution or the preservation of natural resources, both the County and the contractor
    shall have ail the rights and obligations specified in ORS 279C.525 to handle the
    situation.

11. The contract may be canceled at the election of County for any substantial breach, willful
    failure or refusal on the part of contractor to faithfully perform the contract according to
    its terms. The County may terminate the contract by written order or upon request of
    the contractor, if the work cannot be completed for reasons beyond the control of either
    the contractor or the County, or for any reason considered to be in the public interest
    other than a labor dispute, or by reason of any third party judicial proceeding relating to
    the work other than one filed in regards to a labor dispute, and when circumstances or
    conditions are such that it is impracticable within a reasonable time to proceed with a
    substantial portion of the work. In either case, for public improvement contracts, if the
    work is suspended but the contract not terminated, the contractor is entitled to a
    reasonable time extension, costs, and overhead per ORS 297C.655. Unless otherwise
    stated in the contract, if the contract is terminated, the contractor shall be paid per ORS
    279C.660 for a public improvement contract.

12. If the County does not appropriate funds for the next succeeding fiscal year to continue
    payments otherwise required by the contract, the contract will terminate at the end of
    the last fiscal year for which payments have been appropriated. The County will notify
    the contractor of such non-appropriation not later than 30 days before the beginning of
    the year within which funds are not appropriated. Upon termination pursuant to this
    subsection, the County shall have no further obligation to the contractor for payments
    beyond the termination date. This provision does not permit the County to terminate
    the contact in order to provide similar services or goods from a different contractor.

13. By execution of the contract, contractor certifies, under penalty of perjury that:

        a.    To the best of contractor’s knowledge, contractor is not in violation of any tax
              laws described in ORS 305.380(4), and

        b.    Contractor has not discriminated against minority, women     or small business
              enterprises in obtaining any required subcontracts.

        c.    Contractor prepared its bid or proposal related to this Agreement independently
              from all other bidders or proposers, and without collusion, fraud or other
              dishonesty.

14. Contractor agrees to prefer goods or services that have been manufactured or produced
    in this State if price, fitness, availability or quality are otherwise equal.

15. Contractor agrees not to assign the contract or any payments due under the contract
    without the proposed assignee being first approved and accepted in writing by the
    County.

16. Contractor agrees to make all provisions of the contract with the County applicable to
    any subcontractor performing work under the contract.

17. The County will not be responsible for any losses or unanticipated costs suffered by
    contractor as a result of the contractor’s failure to obtain full information in advance in
    regard to all conditions pertaining to the work.

18. All modifications and amendments to the contract shall be effective only if in writing and
    executed by both parties.

19. The contractor certifies he or she has ail necessary licenses, permits, or certificates of
    registration (including Construction Contractor Board registration or Landscape
    Contractor Board license, if applicable), necessary to perform the contract and further
    certifies that all subcontractors shall likewise have all necessary licenses, permits or
    certificates before performing any work. The failure of contractor to have or maintain
    such licenses, permits or certificates is grounds for rejection of a bid or immediate
    termination of the contract.

20. Unless otherwise provided, data which originates from the contract shall be “works for
    hire” as defined by the U.S. Copyright Act of 1976 and shall be owned by the County.
    Data shall include, but not be limited to, reports, documents, pamphlets,
    advertisements, books, magazines, surveys, studies, computer programs, films, tapes,
    and/or sound reproductions. Ownership includes the right to copyright, patent, register
    and the ability to transfer these rights. Data which is delivered under the contract, but
    which does not originate therefrom shall be transferred to the County with a
    nonexclusive, royalty-free, irrevocable license to publish, translate, reproduce, deliver,
    perform, dispose of, and to authorize others to do so; provided that such license shall be
    limited to the extent which the contractor has a right to grant such a license. The
    contractor shall exert all reasonable effort to advise, the County, at the time of delivery
    of data furnished under the contract, of all known or potential invasions of privacy
    contained therein and of any portion of such document which was not produced in the
    performance of the contract. The County shall receive prompt written notice of each
    notice or claim of copyright infringement received by the contractor with respect to any
    data delivered under the contract. The County shall have the right to modify or remove
    any restrictive markings placed upon the data by the contractor.

21. If as a result of the contract, the contractor produces a report, paper publication,
    brochure, pamphlet or other document on paper which uses more than a total 500
    pages of 8 %” by 11” paper, the contractor shall use recycled paper with at least 25%
    post-consumer content which meets printing specifications and availability
    requirements. In all other cases Contractor shall make reasonable efforts to use recycled
    materials in the performance of work required under the contract.

22. Unless otherwise provided in the contract approved by county legal counsel or in the bid
    documents, the current editions of the Oregon Standard Specifications for Construction
    adopted by the State of Oregon, and the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices,
    shall be applicable to all road construction projects.

23. As to contracts for lawn and landscape maintenance, the contractor shall salvage,
    recycle, compost or mulch yard waste material in an approved, site, if feasible and cost-
    effective,

24. When a public contract is awarded to a nonresident bidder and the contract price
    exceeds $10,000, the contractor shall promptly report to the Department of Revenue on
    forms to be provided by the department the total contract, price, terms of payment,
    length of contract and such other information as the department may require before the
    County will make final payment on the contract.

25. in the event an action, lawsuit or proceeding, including appeal therefrom, is brought for
    violation of or to interpret any of the terms of the contract, each party shall be
    responsible for their own attorney fees, expenses, costs and disbursements for said
    action, lawsuit, proceeding or appeal.

26. Contractor is not carrying out a function on behalf of County, and County does not have
    the right of direction or control of the manner in which Contractor delivers services
    under the Contract or exercise any control over the activities of Contractor. Contractor is
    not an officer, employee or agent of County as those terms are used in ORS 30.265.
    Contractor covenants for itself and its successors in interest and assigns that it will not
    claim or assert that Contractor is an officer, employee or agent of the County, as those
    terms are used in ORS 30.265.

27. Contractor shall adhere to and enforce a zero tolerance policy for the use of alcohol and
    the unlawful selling, possession or use of drugs while performing work under the
    Contract.
28. The Contract is expressly subject to the debt limitation of Oregon counties set forth in
    Article XI, Section 10, of the Oregon Constitution, and is contingent upon funds being
    appropriated therefore. Any provisions herein, which would conflict with law, are
    deemed inoperative to that extent.

29. Contractor shall comply with all federal, state and local laws, regulations, executive
    orders and ordinances applicable to the Contract. Without limiting the generality of the
    foregoing, Contractor expressly agrees to comply with the following laws, regulations
    and executive orders:

        a.   Titles VI and VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended;

        b.   Sections 503 and 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended;

        c.   the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended     and ORS 659A.112
             through 659A.139;

        d.   Executive Order 11246, as amended;

        e.   the Health insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996;

        f.   the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended, and the Age
             Discrimination Act of 1975, as amended;

        g.   the Vietnam Era Veterans’ Readjustment Assistance Act of 1974, as amended;

        h.   ORS Chapter 659A, as amended;

        i.   all regulations and administrative rules established pursuant to the foregoing
             laws; and

        j.   all other applicable requirements of federal and state civil rights and
             rehabilitation statutes, rules and regulations.

    The above listed laws, regulations and executive orders and ali reguiations and
    administrative rules established pursuant to those laws are incorporated by reference
    herein to the extent that they are applicable to the Contract or required by law to be so
    incorporated.

30. Contractor and subcontractors shall comply with the Oregon Consumer Identity Theft
    Protection Act (ORS 646A.600 et seq.).

31. Indemnification. To the fullest extent authorized by law, Contractor agrees to indemnify,
    defend, reimburse and hold harmless County, its officers, employees and agents (the
    “Indemnified Parties”) from any and all threatened, alleged or actual claims, suits,
    allegations, damages, liabilities, costs, expenses, losses and judgments, including, but
    not limited to, those which relate to personal or real property damage, personal injury
    or death, attorney and expert/consultant fees and costs, and both economic and non-
    economic losses, to the extent caused by the negligence, breach of contract, breach of
    warranty (express or implied), or other improper conduct of Contractor, its employees,
    subcontractors, or anyone for whose acts Contractor is responsible. If claims are
                  asserted against any Indemnified Party by an employee of the Contractor, a
                  subcontractor, anyone directly or indirectly employed by them, or anyone for whose acts
                  they may be liable, the Contractor’s indemnification obligation and other obligations
                  under this section shall not be limited by any limitation on the amount or type of
                  damages, compensation, or benefits payable to the employee by or for the Contractor or
                  subcontractor under workers’ compensation acts, disability benefit acts, or other
                  employee benefit acts.

HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 2008-023 §1 on 11/23/2008
Amended by Ord. 2010-033 §1 on 3/28/2011

2.37.160 Competitive Electronic Auction Bidding

   A.     The County may utilize electronic or online solicitation, subject to the provisions of this Code, for
          the purchase of goods as provided in this section. Any of the steps provided in this section prior
          to award of a contract may be accomplished through the use of an agent. The objective of this
          procurement method is to inform suppliers prior to the close of an auction what the current low
          bid is and enable such suppliers to submit additional lower bids prior to the close of bidding or
          award of the contract.

    B.    An invitation to bid (ITB) pursuant to this section shali be issued and shall include a procurement
          description and all contract terms, either expressly or by reference, including without limitation
          a description of the property to be purchased, required specifications, number of units,
          warranties, delivery date and location, the pool of potential suppliers, the method by which
          prospective offerors register with the county and any prequalification requirements, the county
          representative’s name and contact information and the timeframe for which the auction will be
          open to bids. The ITB shall include notice that bids will be received in an electronic auction
          manner.

   C.     The Solicitation must designate both an opening date and time and a closing date and time. The
          closing date and time need not be a fixed point in time, but may remain dependant on a variable
          specified in the solicitation. At the opening date and time, the county must begin accepting real
          time electronic offers. The solicitation must remain open until the closing date and time. The
          county may require offerors to register and prequalify before the opening date and time and, as
          a part of that registration, to agree to the terms, conditions, or other requirements of the
          solicitation. Following receipt of the first offer after the opening date and time, the lowest offer
          price or, if proposals are accepted, the ranking of each proposal (without disclosing the identity
          of the proposer), must be posted electronically to the internet and updated on a real time basis.
          At any time before the closing date and time, an offeror may lower the price of its offer or revise
          its proposal except that after opening date and time, an offeror may not lower its price unless
          that price is below the then lowest offer. Offer prices may not be increased after opening. Except
          for offer prices, offers may be modified only as otherwise allowed by these rules or the
          solicitation document.

    D.    Withdrawal of bids may be allowed in accordance with OAR 137-047-0470 (Mistake). If an offer
          is withdrawn, no later offer submitted by the same offeror may be for a higher price. If the
        lowest responsive offer is withdrawn after the closing date and time, the county may cancel the
        solicitation or reopen the solicitation to all pre-existing offerors by giving notice to all pre-
        existing offerors of both the new opening date and time and the new closing date and time.
        Notice that electronic solicitation will be reopened must be given as specified in the solicitation
        document.

   E.   Failure of the electronic procurement system. In the event of a failure of the electronic
        procurement system that interferes with the ability of offerors to submit offers, protest, or to
        otherwise meet the requirements of the procurement, the county may cancel the solicitation or
        may extend the solicitation by providing notice of the extension immediately after the system
        becomes available.

   F.   At the conclusion of the auction the records of bids received and the identity of each bidder shall
        be open to public inspection.

   G.   The contract shail be awarded within 60 days by written notice to the lowest responsible bidder.
        Extensions of the date of the award may be made by mutual written consent of the contracting
        officer and the low bidder. County may reject any proposals not in substantial compliance with
        all prescribed procedures and requirements, and may reject for good cause, any or all proposals
        upon a finding that it is in the public interest to do so.

HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 2008-023 §1 on 11/23/2008
                      BOARD OF
                      COMMISSIONERS

           AGENDA REQUEST & STAFF REPORT

MEETING     DATE:      August 30, 2023

SUBJECT:     Second reading of Ordinance No. 2023-012 regarding proposed revisions to the
            County contracting code

RECOMMENDED ACTIONS:
  1. Move second reading, by title only, of Ordinance 2023-012.
  2. Move adoption of Ordinance No. 2023-012.

BACKGROUND AND POLICY IMPLICATIONS:
The BOCC conducted a public hearing on August 16" to review proposed revisions to the
County contracting code (DCC 2.36 and DCC 2.37) in order to implement provisions of SB
1047, and provide for increased signature authority for County departments and
Administrator.

Following the public hearing, the Board approved first reading of Ordinance No. 2023-012.

BUDGET     IMPACTS:
None

ATTENDANCE:
Admin
Legal