usi'® 4
REVIEWED
9F'- 4 s 8 LEGAL COUNSEL
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTEg COUNTY,, OREGON
An Ordinance Amending Deschutes County Code
Section 15. 04. 190, Permit fees - Adjustments, * -
and Declaring an Emergency.
ORDINANCE NO. 96- 058
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON,
ORDAINS as follows:
Section 1. Amendment. Deschutes County Code Section
15. 04. 190, Permit fees - Adjustments, is hereby amended as set forth in
Exhibit A, attached hereto and incorporated herein, with new language
set out in Redline and language to be deleted in Strikeout.
Section 2. Severability. The provisions of this ordinance are
severable. If any section, sentence, clause or phrase of this
ordinance is adjudged to be invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, that decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this ordinance.
Section 3. Codification. County Legal Counsel shall have the
authority to format the provisions contained herein in a manner that
will integrate them into the County Code consistent with the Deschutes
County Form and Style Manual for Board Documents. Such codification
shall include the authority to make such changes, to make changes in
numbering systems and to make such numbering changes consistent with
interrelated code sections. In addition, as part of codification of
these ordinances, County Legal Counsel may insert appropriate
legislative history reference. Any legislative history references
included herein are not adopted as part of the substance of this
ordinance, but are included for administrative convenience and as a
reference. They may be changed to correct errors and to conform to
proper style without action of the Board of County Commissioners.
Section 4. Repeal of Ordinances as Affecting Existing
Liabilities. The repeal, express or implied, of any ordinance,
ordinance provision, code section, or any map or any line on a map
incorporated therein by reference, by this amending ordinance shall not
release or extinguish any duty, condition, penalty, forfeiture, or
liability previously incurred or that may hereafter be incurred under
such ordinance, unless a provision of this amending ordinance shall so
expressly provide, and such ordinance repealed shall be treated as
still remaining in force for the purpose of sustaining any proper
action or prosecution for the enforcement of such duty, condition,
penalty, forfeiture, or liability, and for the purpose of authorizing
the prosecution, conviction and punishment of the person or persons who
previously violated the repealed ordinance.
PAGE 1 - ORDINANCE N0. 96- 058 ( 11- 27- 96) / r":Ca0N,' MED
D 0
1?
1996 I` U 2 1996
Section 5. Emergency. This ordinance being necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health and safety, an
emergency is declared to exist, and this ordinance takes effect on its
passage.
DATED this 27th day of November, 1996.
ATTEST: BARR
C
Recording SecretAry R
OF COUNTY COMMIS IONERS
CHUT COUNTY, GON
Pd SCH ANGE Chair
i
S LIGHTER, Commissioner
RT L. NIPPER, edmiss
PAGE 2 - ORDINANCE NO. 96- 058 ( 11- 27- 96)