REVIEWED AS TO FORM 168 °' 0277 REVIEWED
EODE REVIEWCOMM. LEGAL COUNS L
98- 2' 71' 7$
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESC1 UTES COUNTY, OREGON
An Ordinance Amending Title 18, Deschutes 9$ AN I ( PH 3: 56
County Zoning Ordinance, of the Deschutes * `
d
CountyCode, andDeclaringanEmergency.  '  PI- d ; ULLG
COUNTYCLERA
ORDINANCE NO. 98- 038
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON,
ORDAINS as follows:
Section1. ADDING. Chapter18.52, SurfaceMining - SM Zone, of the Deschutes County Code
is amendedby theadditionof section18.52.115, Extendedoperatinghours, asdescribedin Exhibit "A,"
attachedhereto and by this reference incorporated herein.
Section 2. FINDINGS. Findings to support this ordinance are set forth in the staff report for File
No. TA - 98- 10, attached as Exhibit " B," and incorporated herein by this reference.
Section3. EFFECTIVEDATE. This Ordinancebeingnecessaryfor the immediatepreservation
of the public peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist and this Ordinance takes effect
on its passage.
DATED this _/ day of June, 1998.
ATTEST:
Recording Secretary
PAGE I OF l - ORDINANCE No. 98- 038 ( 6/ 10/ 98)
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF
DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
NANCY PE SCHLANGEN, Chair
T L. NIPPER,
L. SWEARINGEN, Commissioner
MICRO Il E®
KEYP' i HEj)
JUL 0 1 199
ju2 199
168 - 0278
EXHIBIT " A"
18. 52. 115. Extended operating hours.
Notwithstanding the limitations set forth in
an approved site plan for surface mining or the
limitation on hours of operation set forth in
subsection 18. 52. 110( I) of this chapter, a special
operating permit for extended hours of operations
at a mining site may be approved when the
Planning Director or Hearings Body finds that an
applicant demonstrates that:
A. Project Necessity. Extended hours of
operation are necessary to construct capital
improvementsandotherspecificpublic roadway
improvements, including but not limited to road
widening, paving, surfacing and realigning,
where practical difficulties not created by the
applicant such as transportation management
requirements necessitate project construction
outside the hours specified in subsection
18.52. 110(I) of this chapter or otherwise set forth
in a surfacemining site plan;
B. Equipment Limitation. During the
extended hours of activity, operations at the
mining site shall include only those usesallowed
under section 18. 52. 040 of this chapter and, when
already approved as a conditional use, those uses
listed in section 18. 52. 050 of this chapter,
including vehicular traffic, and shall be limited to
the minimum necessary to complete the project;
and
C. Time Limitation. Activities approved
under subsection ( B) of this section shall not
exceeda period of 14 days but may be renewed
for successiveperiodsnot exceedingthreedays
each if the extension is necessaryto complete
the roadway or capital improvement project; and
transportation management concerns or unique
project characteristicsjustify the extension.
D. Noise Control. Activities permitted
under this section are subject to subsection
8. 08. 090( D) of chapter 8. 08 of the Deschutes
County Code. ( Ord. 98- 038 § 1, 1998)
Page 1 of 1 - EXHIBIT" A" TO ORDINANCENo. 98- 038 ( 6/ 10/98)
EXHIBIT " B"
168 - 0279
MEMORANDUM
DATE: June 2, 1998
TO: Board of County Commissioners
FROM: Barbara Rich, Planning Staff
RE: TA -98-10, Extended Hours of Operation in Surface Mining Zone
Hap Taylor & Sons, Inc., has submitted an application for a text amendment to Title 18 to allow
extended hours of operation for mining activities when necessary to complete public works
projects, such as highway road construction. Nighttime construction is often required on
roadway projects, requiring hot asphalt preparation and delivery from a mining site outside the
standard operating hours at mining sites. The amendment as drafted by staff following
discussions with legal counsel and the Planning Commission is attached. The applicant
anticipates working on a construction project on Highway 20, northwest of Sisters, as early as
the second half of June.
Summary of Proposed Text Amendment
The proposedamendmentwill allow equipmentto be operatedat permittedmining sites for
extended hours, i.e., " outside" the general operating hours allowed in the SM zone or hours
specified in an existing site plan. Extended operating hours would only be allowed when a
public roadway improvement project is identified and traffic concerns dictate that nighttime work
must occur.
For example, an operator meeting these provisions could prepare hot asphalt in a batch plant at
a mining site where an asphalt batch plant is already permitted and deliver it to a construction
area for paving at night. Extended operations require a special operating permit. An applicant
must demonstrate that: 1) the project necessitates nighttime work, 2) only the minimal
equipment required will be operated during the nighttime, and 3) equipment will be operated for
as little time as necessary on both a daily basis and for the overall duration of the project.
Reasons Justifying Proposed Amendment
Due to high traffic volumes, ODOT frequently requires contractors to work on road construction
projects at night ( or 24 hours/ day) to minimize adverse impacts to motorists that occur due to
lane closures. These projects cannot be conducted during winter when traffic volumes might be
lower because temperatures are too low to meet construction specifications. Roadway
construction and maintenance projects are of obvious benefit to the general public and the
overall duration of these projects is less when nighttime construction activity occurs. The overall
duration of most projects of this nature is one to two weeks.
PAGE 1 OF 2 — EXHIBIT " B" TO ORDINANCE NO. 98- 038 ( 6/ 10/ 98)
r '•
16S © 0280
EXHIBIT " B"
Extended hours of operation will result in additional nighttime noise at a mining site due to
equipment and additional truck traffic. However, given the overall transportation needs of the
public, the occasional operation of minimal equipment at mining sites, is necessary to complete
roadway projects in a timely manner.
Planning Commission discussion
The Planning Commission met on May 28th to discuss this issue. The vote on the
recommendation to the Board resulted in a 2- 2 split. Comments and suggestions generated
during the discussion included:
The balance achieved during the 200+ hours of Planning Commission hearings and
80+ hours of County Commissioner hearings on surface mining in the county will be
negated.
The county made promises to the public regarding the scope of surface mining
activities and these promises are embodied in the criteria contained in the Surface
Mining zoning code, including hours of operation
If the impacts of overnight or extended hours of operation were examined through an
ESEE process, the concerns could be addressed because that is a public process
and approval is not granted " wholesale."
The occasional overnight operation is reasonable, but how can the county put a limit
on the amount of overnight operation that occurs on any given site during a given
paving season?
Staff Recommendation
Given boththe PlanningCommission's concernsabout length of work and circumventingthe
public process embodied in the site specific ESEE analyses for each site and the Surface
MiningZonecodeitselfstaff proposesa specificmaximumlimiton the specialoperatingpermit
that can be obtained through this text amendment. Staff has recommended a two- week
durationfor the operatingpermitbecausemostpavingprojectsappearto needsomethingless
than that for completion. If a mine operator wishes to pursue more frequent or more extensive
overnight operations, the operator/owner has the opportunity with the proposed language to
pursue a plan amendment and follow the Goal 5 process to examine and balance the impacts
on the uses that may conflict with a longer period of extended operating hours.
The applicant has recommendedlanguage for the text amendmentthat would classify all
roadway improvement projects requiring extended hours of operation as " emergencies." The
Planning Commission and county staff do not agree that these types of projects can be
classified as emergencies because the road agency responsible for the project (typically ODOT
or County Road Department) has scheduled these projects months or years in advance as
routine maintenance to existing roadways. These paving projects typically are not the result of
landslides, road washouts, or bridge collapses, circumstancesthat any reasonableperson
would consider an emergency. Chapter 8. 08, Noise Control, provides three avenues for
activities that create noise outside of normal operating hours: 1) the applicant can show that the
activity will not create " unreasonably loud or raucous noise" as defined in section 8.08. 060, 2)
the applicantcanapplyundersection8.08.090(D) in the eventof a true emergency, or 3) apply
for a variance under section 8. 08. 100 for all other circumstances. Subsection 18. 52. 115 has
beenwrittento allowthe applicantto applyfor the specialoperatingpermitfor one of the three
options described above depending on the specific circumstances of the work required.
PAGE 2 of 2 — EXHIBIT " B" TO ORDINANCE NO. 98- 038 ( 6/ 10/ 98)