REVIEWED
j /
LEGAt COUNSEL
REVIEWED
CODE REVIEW COMMITTEE
DESCHUTES COUNTY OFFICIAL RECORDS
NANCY BLANKENSHIP, COUNTY CLERK
COMMISSIONERS' J URNAL
1211101511-1711311111111111111111111
06/07/200503:34:02PM
For Recording Stamp only
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY,
OREGON
An Ordinance Amending Title 2 of the Deschutes
County Code to changethe representation on the ORDINANCE NO. 2005- 029
DeschutesCounty Historical Landmarks Commission
and the Landmarks Commissioner appointment
process and declaring an emergency.
WHEREAS, the Deschutes County Historical Landmarks Commission ( Landmarks
Commission) was established on November 1, 1979 by PL -21 and continues to serve the County
and the cities of Bend, Redmond and Sisters with nine voting members and an undetermined
number of ex - officio members, and
WHEREAS, the Board of County Commissioners ( Board) currently appoints all
Deschutes County Historical Landmarks Commissioners and the ex -officio Landmarks
Commissioners; and
WHEREAS, the Deschutes County Historical Landmarks Commission members and the
appointment process were adopted in PL - 21, Ordinances 88- 008 and Ordinance 95- 027 with each
city having one representative, the county having four representatives, the Deschutes County
Pioneer Association having one representative, and the Deschutes County Historical Society
having one representative, and
WHEREAS, the Bend City Council askedthe Board to increasethe City' s representation
from one Landmarks Commissioner to four Landmarks Commissioners and asked for authority
for the City' s mayor to appoint those representativeswith City Council approval, and
WHEREAS, it is in the best interest of Redmond and Sisters to have the sameauthority
for appointment of their representatives, and
WHEREAS, it is in the best interest of the citizens of the County that the Commission
continue to have nine voting members and to that end the County will reduce it representation
from four members to one member, and
WHEREAS, in order to maintain the Landmarks Commission' s United States National
Park Service Certified Local Government designation, the Board and the cities understand that
they must appoint Landmarks Commissioners who meet the following standards: "Members must
be drawn from professionals in architecture, history, architectural history, planning, prehistoric
and historic archeology, folklore, cultural anthropology, curation, conservation, and landscape
architecture or related disciplines to the extent such professionals are available in the community
concerned, and such other persons as have demonstrated special interest, experience, or
knowledge in history, architecture, or related disciplines.", now therefore
PAGE I OF 2 - ORDINANCE NO. 2005- 029 ( 05/ 25/ 2005)
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCffUTES COUNTY,
OREGON, ORDAINS as follows:
Section 1. AMENDMENT. DCC 2. 28. 070 is amended to read as described in Exhibit
A," attachedhereto and by this reference incorporated herein, with new language underlined and
language to be deleted in stfikethfetigh.
Section 2. ADDING. DCC Title 2.28 is amended by the addition of a new Appendix
E", The Federal Requirements of the Certified Local Government, as shown in Exhibit " B,"
attachedhereto and by this reference incorporated herein.
Section 3. EMERGENCY. This ordinance being necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, and safety, an emergency is declared to exist and this
ordinance takes effect in its passage.
DATED this
44,
day o 005. f
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
OF DESC14UTES COUNTY, REGON
TOM DEWOLF, Chair
R. LUKE,
Dateof 1't Reading: Lydayof ' 2005.
nd
2005. Dateof2 Reading: day of
Record of Adoption Vote
Commissioner Yes . No Abstained Excused
Michael M. Daly
Tom DeWolf
Dennis R. Luke
Effective date: day of 04AIX-t—, 2005.
IT
ATTEST:
Recording Secretary
PAGE 2 OF 2 - ORDINANCE NO. 2005- 029 ( 05/ 25/ 2005)
EXHIBIT " A"
2. 28. 070. Historical landmarks
commission - Creation,
membership, term, vacancy
filling and expense
reimbursement.
A. The Landmarks Commission is
composed of nine voting an
undetermined unnumbered of non-
votina ex - officio members who have
demonstrated expertise in historic
preservation related disciplines:
1. The Mayor of Bend, with the
advice and consent of City Council,
shall appoint four Commissioners to
rgpresent the City of Bend,
2. The Mayor of Redmond shall appoint
one Commissioner to represent the Cit
of Redmond,
3. The Mayor of Sisters shall gppoint
one Commissioner to rgpresent the City
of Sisters, an
4. The Board of Coupo Ge,
shall appoint one Commissioner to
represent the unincon2orated portion of
the county.
5. Upon recommendation of The
Histerjeal = he respective
association president, shall rveenffnend
iL Cenwaissioner to feor- esepA the
Histewieal Seeiety mid the Desehut,- s
GettpAy Pieneef Asseeiatieft Pr-esideifit
shall feeenffnend one Gemmissioner- te
represent the Pioneer- Asseeiafien—.- Tthe
Board of Gnuiitv C_- Asstener- s shall
4ppoint one di,-- Conunission6rs whq- to
rgpresent the Historical Society and o
Commissioner to rppresent the
DeschutesCounty Pioneer Association.
6. The ex -officio members shall be
appointed by the Deschutes Count
Board of Commissioners.
713. Landmarks Commissioners shall be
qualified as defined in the National Park
Service' s Certified Local Government
Program requirements ( Appendix " E"
Section 2). Appendix " E", by this
reference, is inco1porated herein.
13C. Landmarks Commissioners serve four
year terms. Conunissioners shall serve
without coMpensation. AU vacanc
occurring in a position for any reaso
other than expiration of a term shall be
filled bv appointment for the remainder
of the term.
GDJ3. In addition to the nine official
members, there shall be an undetermined
number of liaison persons to act as ex
officio members to be called in as
appropriate to act in an advisory capacity
to the landmarks commission. These ex
officio members shall not be entitled to
vote. These persons shall be
representativeof organizations including,
but not limited to, the United States
Forest Service, United States Bureau of
Land Management, the County building
division, and the American Institute of
Architects.
Ord. 2005- 029 § 1, 2005; Ord. 95- 027
1, 1995; Ord. 88- 008 § 3, 1988)
Chapter 2. 28 1 ( 05/ 2005)
PAGE I OF I - ORDINANCE NO. 2005- 029 - EXIBHIT " A"
WWWM
Men_
A. The Landmarks Commission is
composed of nine voting an
undetermined unnumbered of non-
votina ex - officio members who have
demonstrated expertise in historic
preservationrelated disciplines:
1. The Mayorof Bend, with the
advice and consentof City Council,
shall appoint four Commissionersto
rgpresentthe City of Bend,
2. The Mayorof Redmondshall appoint
one Commissionerto representthe Cit
of Redmond,
3. The Mayor of Sisters shall gppoint
one Commissionerto rgpresentthe City
of Sisters, an
4. The Boardof Coupo Ge,
shall appoint one Commissionerto
represent the unincon2orated portion of
the county.
5. Upon recommendationof The
Histerjeal = he respective
association president, shall rveenffnend
iL Cenwaissionerto feor- esepA the
Histewieal Seeiety mid the Desehut,-s
GettpAy Pieneef AsseeiatieftPr- esideifit
shall feeenffnend one Gemmissioner-te
representthe Pioneer- Asseeiafien—.-Tthe
Board of Gnuiitv C_- Asstener-s shall
4ppoint one di,-- Conunission6rswhq-to
rgpresentthe Historical Societyando
Commissioner to rppresent the
DeschutesCounty Pioneer Association.
6. The ex - officio members shall be
appointedby the DeschutesCount
Board of Commissioners.
713. Landmarks Commissionersshall be
qualifiedas definedin the National Park
Service's Certified Local Government
Program requirements ( Appendix " E"
Section 2). Appendix " E", by this
reference, is inco1porated herein.
13C. Landmarks Commissionersserve four
year terms. Conunissionersshall serve
without coMpensation. AU vacanc
occurringin a positionfor any reaso
other than expiration of a term shall be
filled bv appointmentfor the remainder
of the term.
GDJ3. In addition to the nine official
members, there shall be an undetermined
numberof liaison personsto act as ex
officio members to be called in as
appropriateto actin an advisory capacity
to the landmarks commission. These ex
officio members shall not be entitled to
vote. These persons shall be
representativeof organizationsincluding,
but not limited to, the United States
Forest Service, United States Bureauof
Land Management, the County building
division, and the American Instituteof
Architects.
Ord. 2005- 029 § 1, 2005; Ord. 95- 027
1, 1995; Ord. 88- 008 § 3, 1988)
Chapter2. 28 1 ( 05/ 2005)
PAGEI OF I - ORDINANCENO. 2005- 029 - EXIBHIT "A"
EXHIBIT " B"
APPENDIX " E"
THE FEDERAL REQUIREMENTS
OF THE CERTIFIED LOCAL
GOVERNMENT
1) Enforce Appropriate State or Local
Legislation for the Designation and
Protection of Historic Properties. Federal
regulations are found in 36 CFR 61. 6. For
the ppMose of the CLQ Program, the Act
defines:
a. " Designation" as " the identification
and registration of properties for
protection that meet criteria established
by the State or the locality for
significant historic and prehistoric
resources within the jurisdiction of a
local goverm- nent." Designation
includes the identification and
registration of resources according to
State or local criteria which must be
consistent with the SecretM of th
Interior' s Standards for Identification
and Registration. Adoption of the
National RegisteE criteria is encouraged.
b. " Protection" as " a local review
process under State or local law for
proposed demolition of, changes to, or
other action that may affect historic
properties designated pursuant to" a
local government becoming a Certified
Local Govenunent. The CLG' s local
protection review process of the Act
applies only to properties designated
pursuant to State or local laws and
procedures. This would not include
properties listed on or detem- iined
eligible for the National Register of
Historic Places unless such properties
also were designated under the
appropriate State or local process.
c. In. its CLQ procedures, each State
must define what constitutes appropriate
State or local leizislation for the
designation and protection of historic
properties and its enforcement. NPS
does not require State or local
legislation regarding designation and/ or
protection as a prerequisite for
certification. However, if State and/ or
local legislation is required in the State' s
certification procedures, that legislatio
must be consistent with the Act and with
the definitions above ( for desimation
and/ or protection 1.
2) Establish an Adequate and Qualified
Historic Preservation Review Conunission
by State or Local Legislation. " Historic
preservation review conunission" means a
board, council, commission, or other similar
collegial body established by State or local
legislation. The members must be
appointed, unless otherwise provided - by
Stateor local legislation, by the chief elected
official of the jurisdiction. Members must
be drawn from professionals in architecture,
history, architectural history, planning,
prehistoric and historic archeology, folklore,
cultural anthropology, curation,
conservation, and landscgpe architecture or
related disciplines to the extent such
professionals are available in the communit
concerned, and such other persons as have
demonstrated special interest, eVerience, o
knowledge in history, architecture, or related
disciplines. NPS regulations regarding
conunissions are found in 36 CFR 61. 6.
a. If no State law exists that allows the
establishment of local commissions, the
State will require the local govermnent
to establish a commission by law or
ordinance, or other official action.
b. The State mav define " adeauate and
qualified" within the limits of 36 CER
61. 6, but the requirements set shall not
be more stringent or coinprehensive than
the State' s reauirements for the State
Review Board.
c. A State may specify in its State CLQ
procedures or inco1porate by reference
in State CLQ procedures, the minimum
number and type of professional
PAGE I OF 2 — APPENDIX E TO ORDINANCE 2005- 029 - EXHIBIT " B"
EXHIBIT " B"
members that the local goveniment shall
appoint to the conunission, and indicate
how additional expertise may be
obtained. A local govemment may be
certified without the minimum number
or types of disciplines if it can provid
written documentation to the SHPO that
it has made a reasonable effort to fill
those positions. However, if the SHPO
has deleizated State Review Board
responsibilities to the Certified Local
Govenunent for that jurisdiction, th
local commission must meet all
applicable Review Board requirements,
and perform all Review Board
responsibilities.
d. When a professional discipline is not
represented in the commission
membership, the commission shall seek
expertise in this area from persons
meeting the SecretM of the Interior' s
Professional Qualification Standards, as
appropriate.
3. Maintain a System for the Surygy a
InventoKy of Properties that furthers the
PWoses of the Act.
a. The State shall promulgate " idelines
for local survey and inventoKy systems
that ensure that such systems and the
data produced can be readily intejzrated
into SHP0 inventories, the statewide
coLnprehensive historic preservation
plan, and other qppropriate State and
local planning processes. QLQ surve
data shall be in a format consistent with
SHPO invento1y requirements and shall
not be inconsistent with the Secretary o
the Interior' s " Standards for
Identification and Evaluation." This
policy does not apply to survey data
produced by local govenunents before
the effective date of CLG certification.
4. Provide for Adequate Public Participatio
in the Local Historic Preservation Propram.
a. The State shall define in writin
minimum requirements for publi
participation in the conduct of overall
CLG activities. These minimum
requirements must include provision fo
open meetings ( which must include
public participation in the National
Register Nomination process), minutes
that are publicly available, - and the
publication and dissemination of
conunission procedures, as well as
compliance with local, State, and
Federal public participation regulations.
5. Satisfactorily Perform the Responsibilities
Delegated to it Under the Act. Each local
izovermnent must have the legal authority to
fulfill the minimum requirements specified
by the SHPQ in its NPS-!qpproved CLG
procedures.
PAGE 2 OF 2 — APPENDIX E TO ORDINANCE 2005- 029 - EXHIBIT " B"