R, EV I
85' 2720 + LF.1- A CCjU.VSEL l
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES C TY, OREGON'
An Ordinance Establishing
Procedures for the Setting * CJ ftiFy (. +, j(
and Adjustment of Fees and
Charges, Providing For
Emergency Fees and Charges, VOL fit PAcE851
and Declaring an Emergency.
ORDINANCE NO. 85- 005
WHEREAS, The Board of County Commissioners desires to set
fees and charges for services at levels that are fair and equi-
table for both the beneficiary of the service and the County; and
WHEREAS, the maintenance of fees and charges for services at
levels which reflect actual costs of providing services necessi-
tates periodic adjustments to the fees and charges; and
WHEREAS, fees should be reviewed, adjusted and set annually;
now, therefore,
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY,
OREGON, ORDAINS as follows:
Section 1. Fees and charges for services shall be reviewed
for compatibility with the actual cost of providing service prior
to April 1 of each year, and shall be adjusted and set as of each
July 1.
Section 2. Prior to April 1 of each year, each department
responsible for the charging of a fee or charge for service shall
submit to the Director of Adminsitrative Services an analysis, on
forms to be provided by the Director of Administrative Services,
the fees currently being charged, the actual cost of the services
provided, and the recommended fee adjustments, if any.
Section 3. For fees for which no new fee is recommended by
a department head, an annual adjustment will be made based on the
West - D Consumer Price Index ( CPI) for all urban consumers, as
compiled and published by the U. S. Department of Labor, Bureau
of Labor Statistics, as of the prior December.
Section 4. The Board of County Commissioners shall set for
hearing, prior to May 1 of each year, all adjustments to fees and
charges for services, and all new fees and charges for services.
Fees and charges for services may be amended or added after hear-
ing by the Board of County Commissioners by a proper Resolution
adopting the fees and charges for services.
1 - ORDINANCE NO. 85- 005
w -
VOL 62 PAGE852
Section 5. The Director of Adminsitrative Services shall
compile and publish a compilation of all County fees and charges
for services as of each July 1, and shall disseminate said com-
pilation to all County Departments.
Section 6. Emergency fees may be adopted adminsitratively
by the Director of Adminsitrative Services or the Board of County
Commissioners for a period not to exceed one year. When a ser-
vice is requested and no fee has been adopted by the Board of
County Commissioners, the Director of Adminsitrative Services, on
behalf of the Board of County Commissioners, shall declare a fee
which shall be based upon the work to be performed and cost of
providing the service.
Section 7. All fees for service now in effect are hereby
ratified, and shall remain in full force and effect unless
amended by Resolution of the Board of County Commissioners.
Section 8. This Ordinance being necessary for the immediate
preservation of public peace, health and safety, an emergency is
declared to exist, and this Ordinance takes effect on its
passage.
DATED this, day of , 1985.
BOR OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
OF D SCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
LA
ATTEST: LOIS
R cording Secretary D
2 - ORDINANCE NO. 85- 005
E A. TU E, CAairman
E, Commissioner
l / l
ssioner