REVIEWID
9' 7-' 2' 799
of 62-:-0516
LEGALCOUNSEL
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COON I Y,
An Ordinance Amending DeschutesCounty * -
97
8
Code Title 17 section 17.48. 175, and Declaring
an Emergency.
ORDINANCE NO. 97- 035
f_
WHEREAS, The Board of County Commissioners has determined that to comply with Periodic
Review and OAR Chapter 660-22, amendmentsto the DeschutesCounty Comprehensive Plan are
required; and
WHEREAS, after notice and hearing as required by law, the Board of County Commissioners
hasconsidered the recommendation of the Planning Commission, now therefore,
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
ORDAINS as follows:
Section 1. ADOPTION OF AMENDMENTS TO CHAPTER 17. 48. 175 OF COUNTY CODE. Section
17.48. 175, of the County Code, " Road Development Requriements - Standards," is amended to read as
shown in Exhibit " A" attached hereto and by this reference incorporated herein, with new languageset
forth as underlined type and deleted language in strikeout.
Section 2. FINDINGS. Findings to support this ordinance are set forth in the findings supporting
Ordinance No. 97-031 and attachedthereto as Exhibit " C" which findings are incorporated by reference
herein.
Section 3. CODIFICATION. Legal Counsel or the Code Book Review Committee shall have the
authority to format the provisions contained herein in a mannerthat will integrate them into County Code
consistent with the prescribed form and style for ordinance codification. Such codification shall include
the authority to make format changes, to make changesto numbering systemsand to make such
numbering changeswith interrelated code sections. In addition, aspart of codification of these
ordinances, Legal Counsel or the Code Book Review Committee may insert appropriate legislative
history references. Any legislative history references included herein are not adopted as part of the
substance of this ordinance, but are included for administrative convenience and as a reference. They
maybechangedto correcterrorsandto conformto properstylewithout actionof theBoardof County
Commissioners.
Section 4. CORRECTIONS. This ordinance may be corrected by order of the Board of County
Commissioners to cure editorial and clerical errors and to insert appropriate legislative history
references.
Section 5. REPEAL OF ORDINANCES AFFECTING EXISTING LIABILITIES. The repeal express or
implied, of any ordinance, ordinance provision, code section or any map or line on a map by this
ordinance shall not releaseor extinguish any duty, condition, penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred
under such ordinance, unless a provision of this ordinance shall so expressly provide, and such ordinance
repealed shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purpose of sustaining any proper action or
prosecution for the enforcement of such duty, condition, penalty, forfeiture, or liability, for the EC
JUN ` 1997
l' Y ` .
PAGE 1 OF 2 - ORDINANCE No. 97- 035 ( 6/ 25/ 97)
0162- 051' 7
of authorizing the prosecution, conviction and punishment of the person or persons who violated the
repealed ordinance.
Section 6. SEVERABILITY. The provision of this ordinance are severable. If any section,
sentence, clause or phraseof this ordinance or any exhibit or any exhibit thereto is found to be invalid by
a court of competentjurisdiction that decisions shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of
this ordinance.
Section 7. EMERGENCY. This ordinance being necessaryfor the immediate preservation of the
public peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist, and the this ordinance takes effect on
this passage.
Dated this day of , 1997.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
OF DESC1 UTES COUNTY, OREGON
NANCY P(VE SCHLANGEN, Chair
NIPPER, Comm
A SWEARIWEN,
ST:
yl_ . M,
Recording Secretary
PAGE 2 OF 2 - ORDINANCE No. 97- 035 ( 6/ 25/ 97)
Exhibit " A"
to Ordinance 97- 035
17. 48. 175. Road development requirements -
Unincorporated communities.
A. Standards.
1. In the areas zoned Urban Unincorporated
Community -Commercial or Rural Service Center
in La Pine, and - r: male, all roads shall be
improved with curbs and sidewalks and to the
width specified for the applicable urban
classification in Table A of this title.
2. For areas zoned Urban Unincorporated
Community -Industrial or Rural Industrial (RI) all
roads shall be improved to the width specified for
the applicable urban classification in Table A; no
curbs or sidewalks are required.
3. For the areas designated residential
within Urban Unincorporated Communities or
zoned Rural Service Residential ( RSR - M and
RSR - 5), all roads shall be improved with curbs
and sidewalks if the density of development is
greater than 2.2 dwelling units per acre. If the
density is 2.2 dwelling units per acre or less, the
adjacent roads shall be improved with curbs and
to the width, without sidewalks, specified for the
applicable urban classification in Table A of the
title.
4. In the Terrebonne Rural Community, all
improvements to the public road rights- of- way
shall conform to the road development standards
contained in Title 18, section 18.66. 070 of this
code, except for improvements to roads servicing
mss - parcels of 10 acres or greater
createdby a partition.
5. In the Tumalo Rural Community, all
improvements to the public rits- of- wa shall
conform to the road development standards
contained in Title 18, section 18. 67. 080 of this
code, except for improvements to roads servicing
parcels of 10 acres or greater created by a
partition.
0162' 0518
63. No curbs or sidewalks are required in the
rural service centers of Alfalfa, Brothers,
Hampton, Millican, WhistleStop, Wickiup
Junction, Wild Hunt, Deschutes River Woods and
Spring River.
B. All required road improvements shall be
located on the applicant' s side of the street, unless
the subject property lies on both sides of the
street. ( Ord. 96- 003 § 12, 1996; Ord. 93- 057 § 1,
1993; Ord. 93- 012 § 52, 1993)
PAGE 1 OF 1 - ExHmrr " A" TO ORDINANCE 97- 035 ( 6/ 25/ 97)