WHEREAS, the establishment of the Rural Service Center was subject
to certain use restrictions to assure compliance with Goal 14, which
restrictions were accomplished by use of a Limited Combining Zone; and
WHEREAS, Robert Klaver proposes to add an additional use to the
list of uses allowed in the Rural Service Center;
WHEREAS, the addition of new uses in the Spring River Rural
Service Center requires that a plan amendment and a reasons exception
be adopted and that the attributes of the zone as applied to the
property be changed; now, therefore,
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON,
ORDAINS as follows:
Section 1. Amendment to Rural Service Center Chapter. Chapter
18. 64 of Title 18 is amended to add a new section 18. 64. 120 as set
forth in Exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference.
Section 2. Findings. This ordinance is supported by the decision
of the Hearing Officer dated February 23, 1996, attached to Ordinance
96- 022 as Exhibit C, and which is incorporated herein by reference.
Section 3. Severability. The provisions of this ordinance are
severable. If any section, sentence, clause or phrase of this
ordinance is adjudged to be invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, that decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this ordinance.
Section 4. Codification. County Legal Counsel shall have the
authority to format the provisions contained herein in a manner that
will integrate them into the County Code consistent with the Deschutes
County Form and Style Manual for Board Documents. Such codification
shall include the authority to make such changes, to make changes in
numbering systems and to make such numbering changes consistent withinterrelated code sections. In addition, as part of codification of
r
PAGE 1 - ORDINANCE NO. 96- 023 ( 3/ 20/ 96) ' A t; C
LD
IVAR
7
1996 : ,  -
7996
REVIEWED
I
9F- 70706
LEGAL COUNSEL
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OR 01T --
An Ordinance Amending Title 18, the *
Deschutes County Zoning Ordinance, *
A t
to Adopt Changes to the Text of Chapter
18. 64, Rural Service Center, to Add an
Amended List of Uses Allowed in the
Spring River Rural Service Center and
Declaring an Emergency. *
ORDINANCE NO. 96- 023
WHEREAS, by Ordinance 90- 009 and 90- 010 the Board `.' of cCounty
Commissioners approved a plan amendment and zone change to create the
Spring River Service Center ( Rural Service Center) and took an
exception from Goal 14; and
WHEREAS, the establishment of the Rural Service Center was subject
to certain use restrictions to assure compliance with Goal 14, which
restrictions were accomplishedby use of a Limited CombiningZone; and
WHEREAS, Robert Klaver proposes to add an additional use to the
list of uses allowed in the Rural Service Center;
WHEREAS, the addition of new uses in the Spring River Rural
Service Center requires that a plan amendmentand a reasons exception
be adopted and that the attributes of the zone as applied to the
property be changed; now, therefore,
THE BOARDOF COUNTY COMMISSIONERSOF DESCHUTESCOUNTY, OREGON,
ORDAINS as follows:
Section 1. Amendmentto Rural Service Center Chapter. Chapter
18. 64 of Title 18 is amended to add a new section 18. 64. 120 as set
forth in ExhibitA and incorporatedhereinby reference.
Section 2. Findings. This ordinance is supportedby the decision
of the Hearing Officer dated February23, 1996, attached to Ordinance
96- 022 as Exhibit C, and which is incorporated herein by reference.
Section 3. Severability. The provisions of this ordinance are
severable. If any section, sentence, clause or phrase of this
ordinance is adjudged to be invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, that decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this ordinance.
Section 4. Codification. County Legal Counsel shall have the
authority to format the provisions contained herein in a manner that
will integrate them into the County Code consistent with the Deschutes
County Form and Style Manual for Board Documents. Such codification
shall include the authorityto make such changes, to make changes in
numbering systems and to make such numbering changes consistent withinterrelated code sections. In addition, as part of codification of
r
PAGE 1 - ORDINANCENO. 96- 023 ( 3/ 20/ 96) ' A t; C
LD
IVAR
1996 : ,  -
0149- 1559
these ordinances, County Legal Counsel may insert appropriate
legislative history reference. Any legislative history references
included herein are not adopted as part of the substance of this
ordinance, but are included for administrative convenience and as a
reference. They may be changed to correct errors and to conform to
proper style without action of the Board of County Commissioners.
Section 5. Repeal of Ordinances as Affecting Existing
Liabilities. The repeal, express or implied, of any ordinance,
ordinance provision, code section, or any map or any line on a map
incorporated therein by reference, by this amending ordinance shall not
release or extinguish any duty, condition, penalty, forfeiture, or
liability previously incurred or that may hereafter be incurred under
such ordinance, unless a provision of this amending ordinance shall so
expressly provide, and such ordinance repealed shall be treated as
still remaining in force for the purpose of sustaining any proper
action or prosecution for the enforcement of such duty, condition,
penalty, forfeiture, or liability, and for the purpose of authorizing
the prosecution, conviction and punishment of the person or persons who
previously violated the repealed ordinance.
Section 6. Emergency. This ordinance being necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health and safety, an
emergency is declared to exist, and this ordinance takes effect on its
passage.
DATED this 20th day of March, 1996.
ATTEST:
Recording Secrekary
RD OF COUNTY COM". ISSIONERS
DESCHUTES` COUNTYP OREGON
NANCY PptE9N Chair / 1
t k
BARRY H.' SLAUGHTER', Commissioner
ROBER L. NIPPER, Commissioner
PAGE 2 - ORDINANCE NO. 96- 023 ( 3/ 20/ 96)
i
0149- 1560
Exhibit A
to Ordinance 96- 023
18. 64. 120 Uses Allowed in Spring River Rural Service
Center/ Limited Use Combining Zone.
A. Uses
In the Spring River Rural Service Center/ Limited Use
Combining Zone, uses shall be allowed as follows:
1. Permitted Uses. The following uses and their
accessory uses are allowed outright:
a. Fishing supplies and equipment.
b. Snowmobiling accessories.
C. Marine accessories.
d. General store.
e. Hardware store.
f. Convenience store with gas pumps.
g. Fast food restaurant, cafe, or coffee shop.
h. Recreational rental equipment store.
i. Excavation business.
j. Landscaping business/ service.
2. Conditional Uses. The following uses may be
allowed, subject to Chapter 18. 128 of this title:
a. Full service gas station with automobile repair
services.
b. Welding shop.
B. Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the
use " landscaping business/ service" includes designing
landscapes, site grading and preparation, placing boulders,
planting trees and shrubbery, installing sod, installing
irrigation systems and equipment, installing fencing, and
landscape maintenance, but does not include on- site
cultivation of plants or plant materials or any on- site
retail sales."
PAGE 3 - ORDINANCE NO. 96- 023 ( 3/ 20/ 96)