95- 1429
EW COUNSEL
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
An Ordinance Adopting a Maxi- * > va 53 86
mum Length and Width For Com- *
binations of Vehicles, and
Declaring an Emergency.
ORDINANCE NO. 84- 022
WHEREAS, under the provisions of ORS 483. 525 the Board of
County Commissioners has authority to establish the maximum
length and width of vehicles permitted to operate on County and
other public roads under the Board' s jurisdiction within
Deschutes County; and
WHEREAS, combinations of vehicles with an overall length not
exceeding 60 feet, and an overall width not exceeding 8 feet,
are
issued annual permits for continuing operation. From the exper-
ience with this permit program, it is judged that all County and
local access roads have the capability for operation of com-
binations of vehicles with a maximum overall length of 60 feet;
and a maximum overall width of 8 feet 6 inches; and
WHEREAS, the Director of Public Works has recommended that
any combination of vehicles with an overall length not exceeding
60 feet and with an overall width not exceeding 8 feet 6 inches
be permitted continuous operation on all County and public access
roads; and
WHEREAS, if it is determined that safe and efficient opera-
tions are reduced due to roadway geometrics, that the subject
roadways be identified and listed as restricted roads, and such
list be adopted by Order of the Board and filed in the office of
the County Clerk; and
WHEREAS, it would be in the best interest of Deschutes
County to establish the aforementioned maximum length and width
for combinations of vehicles, with the provision to restrict
specific roadways, if necessary; now, therefore,
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY,
OREGON, ORDAINS as follows:
Section 1. Any combination of
lengthnxceeding 60 feet and an
inches shall be permitted continuous
local access roads.
1 - ORDINANCE NO. 84- 022
vehicles with an overall
overall width of 8 feet 6
operation on all County and
VOL 53 mrn-' 487
Section 2. If it is determined, following an engineering
study, tlialf safe and efficient operations are reduced or movement
of combination vehicles permitted in Section 1 herein present
hazards on specific roads, the subject roadway or sections
thereof be listed as restricted by Order of the Board of County
Commissioners, and such list be filed with the County Clerk.
Section 3. This Ordinance being necessary for the immediate
preservation of public peace, health and safety, an emergency is
declared to exist, and this Ordinance takes effect on its
passage.
DATEDthis A-Pja day
of , 1984.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
ATTEST: DdA
Recording Secretary
2 - ORDINANCE NO. 84- 022
LAURENCE A.
Cha
Commissioner
LEN Commissioner