9S- 3202 5 VOL 51,FA,1 546
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
An Ordinance Amending
Deschutes County Ordinance
No. 80- 201, Redmond Urban
Area Zoning Ordinance of
1980, as Amended, to Provide
Recreational Vehicle Park
Siting Within a Mobile Home * E
Park to Provide Recreational
Vehicle Parks in the Tourist
Commercial Zone, Providing *
v
the ds, and Declaring MARY
anEmergency. SUEPENJOLLOW, CO. CLERK
ORDINANCE NO. 84- 003
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY,
OREGON, ORDAINS as follows:
Section 1. That Section 3, Conditional Uses Permitted,
Section 3. 040, General Residential - Planned R- 4 Zone, is amended
by the addition of the following:
M. Overnight use areas for recreational vehicles
within a mobile home park subject to Section
7. 040( 12)."
Section 2. Subsection 3, Conditional Uses Permitted, of
Section 3. 090, Tourist Commercial C- 5 Zone, is amended as
follows:
h. Taveler' s accomodation facilities, including
hotels, motels, campgrounds, overnight travel
parks, and recreational vehicle parks."
Section 3. That subsection ( 12) of Section 7. 040, Standards
Governing Conditional Uses, is amended to read as follows:
1112. Recreational Vehicle Park or Overnight Use Area
Within a Mobile Home Park: A recreation vehicle
park or overnight use area within a mobile home
park shall be built to state standards in effect
at the time of construction and shall comply with
the following provisions:
a. When in association with a mobile home park,
the total number of recreational vehicle
spaces within an overnight use shall not
1 - ORDINANCE NO. 84- 003
VOL 51 FAcE547
exceed 20% of the total maximum number of
mobile home spaces allowable under the
ordinance and within the mobile home park.
b. No recreational vehicle park or overnight use
area shall be permitted with access further
than 1000' from a designated arterial or
collector street or private street of equal
paved width. Further, such access roads
shall be designed and constructed at the
maximum design standards for right of way
and/ or pavement width (
601/ 361).
A lesser
standard of not less than 30' may be approved
by the hearings body if no on street parking
is allowed, sufficient off street parking is
provided, and only if the proposed park plan
is accompanied by an approved maintenance and
enforcement management agreement.
C. The design of recreational vehicle parks and
overnight use areas within residential dis-
tricts shall be subject to site plan review
and approval and shall recognize and have
minimal adverse impact on the quality and
values of the residential district.
d. The space provided for each recreational
vehicle shall be not less than 700 square
feet exclusive of any space used for common
areas, such as roadways, general use struc-
tures, walkways, parking spaces for vehicles
other than recreation vehicles and landscaped
areas.
e. Roadways other than those described in ( b)
above, shall be not less than 30 feet in
width if parking is permitted on the margin
of the roadway, or less than 20 feet in width
if parking is not permitted on the edge of
the roadway, shall be paved with asphalt,
concrete, or similar impervious surface and
designed to permit easy access to each
recreation vehicle space.
f. A space provided for a recreation vehicle
shall be covered with crushed gravel or paved
with asphalt, concrete, or similar material
and be designed to provide runoff of surface
water. The part of the space which is not
occupied by the recreation vehicle, not in-
tended as an access way to the recreation
vehicle or part of an outdoor patio, need not
2 - ORDINANCE NO. 84- 003
r
vet 51 548
be paved or covered with gravel provided the
area is landscaped or otherwise treated to
prevent dust or mud.
g. A recreation vehicle space shall be provided
with piped potable water and sewage disposal
service. A recreational vehicle staying in
the park shall be connected to the water and
sewage service provided by the park if the
vehicle has equipment needing such service.
h. A recreation vehicle space shall be provided
with electric service.
i. Trash receptacles for the disposal of solid
waste material shall be provided in conven-
ient locations for the use of guests of the
park and located in such number and be of
such capacity that there is no uncovered
accumulation of trash at any time.
j. No recreation vehicle shall remain in the
park for more than 30 days in any 60 day
period.
k. The total number of parking spaces in the
park, exclusive of parking provided for the
exclusive use of the manager or employees of
the park, shall be equal to one space per
recreation vehicle space. Parking spaces
shall be covered with crushed gravel or paved
with asphalt, concrete, or similar material.
1. The park shall provide toilets, lavatories
and showers for each sex in the following
ratios: for each 15 recreation vehicle
spaces or any fraction thereof; one toilet,
one urinal, one lavatory and one shower for
men; one toilet, one lavatory and one shower
for women. The toilets and showers shall
afford privacy and the showers shall be pro-
vided with private dressing rooms. Facili-
ties for each sex shall be located in sepa-
rate buildings or, if in the same building,
shall be separated by a sound proof wall.
M. The park shall provide one utility building
or room containing one clothes washing
machine, one clothes drying line for each 10
recreation vehicle spaces or any fraction
thereof, unless such facilities are available
within a distance of three miles and are
adequate pursuant to these standards.
3 - ORDINANCE NO. 84- 003
VOL 51 FACE549
n. Building spaces required by subsection 12( 1)
and 12( m) shall be lighted at all times of
night and day, shall be ventilated, and shall
be provided with adequate floor drains to
permit easy cleaning.
o. Except for the access roadway into the park,
the park shall be screened on all sides by a
sight obscurring hedge or fence not less than
six feet in height.
P. The park shall be maintained in a neat appear-
ance at all times. Except for vehicles,
there shall be no outside storage of mater-
ials or equipment belonging to the park or to
any guest of the park.
q. Evidence shall be provided that the park will
be eligible for a certificate of sanitation
as required by state law."
Section 4. This Ordinance being necessary for the immediate
preservation of public peace, health and safety, an emergency is
declared to exist, and this Ordinance takes effect on its
passage.
DATED this/ Sik day of : Jj ,, , 1984.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
OF DESCHUTES COUNTYr OREGON
ALBERT A.
ATTEST: % h0 BR IS
Recording Secretary LAUR NCE
4 - ORDINANCE NO. 84- 003
YOUNG ' Cha
TQW PP. AN E , C
A. ' TUTTLEN Co
ssioner
ssioner