REVIEWED
JL)
92- 16965
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF
An Ordinance Amending Title 19 of ao
the Deschutes County Code, the
Bend Urban Growth Boundary Zoning n,
Ordinance, adding Public Buildings N)
as a Permitted Use in the Light
F"
Industrial ( IL) Zone, adding
cpm
a Definition for Public Building,
and Declaring an Emergency.
MCD
ko
ORDINANCE NO. 92- 043
0118- V499
WHEREAS, the Deschutes County Planning Department proposed a
Text Amendment to Section 19. 64. 020 of Title 19, to add public
buildings as a Permitted Use in the IL, Light Industrial Zone.
WHEREAS, Public Buildings are a Permitted Use in the CH,
Highway Commercial, CG, General Commercial, and IG, General
Industrial Zones, and a Conditional Use in the CL, Limited
Commercial, CC, Convenience Commercial and IP, Industrial Park
Zones.
WHEREAS, the Bend Urban Area Planning Commission, has
recommended approval of the proposed Text Amendment to Title 19;
now, therefore,
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON,
ORDAINS as follows:
Section 1. Section 19. 04. 040 of Title 19 of the Deschutes
County Code is amended to add the following definition:
Public Buildings. Buildings that are owned and operated by
federal, state or local governments or special districts and which
are occupied by such a governmental or quasi - governmental body to
provide non- proprietary governmental services. Such buildings
include, but are not limited to, fire stations, city halls,
courthouses, administration buildings, human service facilities and
correctional factilities.
Section 2. Section 19. 64. 020 of Title 19 is amended to read
as follows:
19. 64. 020 Permitted Uses.
The following uses are permitted in the IL Zone subject to the
provisions of Chapter 19. 76.
A. Any permitted use in the IP Zone. V" tt,
a -
1 - ORDINANCE NO. 92- 043
I
B. Cold storage plants, including storage and office.
C. Fuel oil distributors.
0118- 0500
D. Printing, publishing and book binding.
E. Public utility buildings and yards.
F. Veterinary clinic and hospitals operated entirely within
an enclosed building.
G. Light fabrication and repair shops, such as blacksmith,
cabinet, electric motor, heating, machine, sheet metal, sign,
stone monuments, upholstery and welding.
H. Assembly, manufacture or preparation of articles and
merchandise from the following previously prepared types of
materials: bone, canvas, cellophane, cloth, cork, feathers,
felt, leather, precious or semi- precious metal or stones,
shell, textiles, tobacco, wax, wire, wood ( excluding sawmills,
lumbermills, planing mills, molding plants, particle board,
wafer board, plywood and pulp process) yarns and paint not
employing a boiling process. ( Ord. 88- 042 ss 29, 1988).
I. Manufacture, compounding, processing, packing or
treatment of such products as bakery goods, candy, cosmetics,
dairy products and meat, drugs, perfume, pharmaceuticals,
perfumed toilet soap, toiletries; excluding the rendering of
fats and oils, fish and meat slaughtering and fermented foods,
such as sauerkraut, vinegar and yeast.
J. Processing uses such as bottling plants, creameries,
laboratories, blueprinting and photocopying, laundries, carpet
and rug cleaning plants, cleaning and dyeing plants, tire
retreading, recapping and rebuilding.
K. Contractor' s equipment, storage or sale yard, house
mover, delivery vehicles, transit storage, trucking terminal
and used equipment in operable condition.
L. Manufacture of concrete products and ceramic products
using only previously pulverized clay.
M. Manufacture of musical instruments, novelties, rubber or
metal stamps, toys, optical goods or precision instruments or
equipment.
N. Manufacture of artificial limbs, dentures, hearng aids,
surgical instruments and dressings and other devices employed
by the medical and dental professions.
O. Mini storage units.
P. Planned unit developments subject to the provisions of
Chapter 19. 104.
2 - ORDINANCE NO. 92- 043
Q. ( Deleted by Ord. 88- 042 ss 27, 1988) . 0118- 0501
R. Accessory uses and buildings customarily appurtenant to
a permitted use, such as incidental storage, are permitted.
S. Wholesale distribution of all standard types of prepared
or packaged merchandise such as automobile supplies, drug and
electrical supplies, furniture, food products, hardware,
leather goods, plumbing supplies, textiles and fabrics and
general merchandise. ( Ord. 88- 042 ss 28, 1988).
T. Public buildings.
Section 3. This Ordinance being necessary for the imediate
preservation of the public peace, health and safety, an emergency
is declared to exist, and this Ordinance takes effect on its
passage.
DATED this Iday of , 1992.
BOARD 01
ATTEST:
Recording Secretary
3 - ORDINANCE NO. 92- 043
COUNTY. A W
COUNTY, OREGON
Commiss ' oner
NAW44-
1 6 1/
NANCY POPE SC* LANGEN, Commiss: Voner
r
DICK MAUDL N, Chairman