REVIEWED
LEGAL OUNSEL
it
DESCHUTES COUNTY OFFICIAL RECORDS r} ~
0~~~~tNANCY BLANKENSHIP, COUNTY CLERK IiJ
COMMISSIONERS' JOURNAL
1111111111111111111111111111
21012-87
041401014W av: a PM
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
An Ordinance Amending Deschutes County
Code Chapter 18. 108 to Permit Churches in the
Sunriver Urban Unincorporated Community
Zone, Business Park District, and Declaring an
Emergency.
ORDINANCE NO. 2012- 002
WHEREAS, on October 13, 2011, The Door at Three Rivers Church submitted an application to amend
the Deschutes County Code (" DCC") Chapter 18. 108, to allow for churches in a building or buildings not
exceeding 5, 000 square feet of floor area to be permitted outright in the Sunriver Urban Unincorporated
Community Zone, Business Park District; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on January 12, 2012, and forward to the
Board of County Commissioners (" Board") a recommendation of approval as proposed; and
WHEREAS, the Board considered this matter after a public hearing on February 27, 2012 and
concluded that the public will benefit from changes to Sunriver Urban Unincorporated Community Zone,
Business Park District; now, therefore,
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON, ORDAINS
as follows:
Section 1. AMENDMENT. DCC 18. 108.110, Sunriver Urban Unincorporated Community Zone,
Business Park District, Uses Permitted Outright is amended to read as described in Exhibit " A," attached hereto
and by this reference incorporated herein, with new language underlined and language to be deleted in
strikethr-ougk.
Section 2. FINDINGS. The Board adopts as its findings Exhibit " B", attached and incorporated by
reference herein.
PAGE 1 OF 2 - ORDINANCE NO. 2012 - 002
Section 5. EMERGENCY. This Ordinance being necessary for the immediate preservation of the
public peace,
health~pd
safety, an emergency is declared to exist, and this Ordinance takes effect on its passage.
Dated this - 2170f -~2"
2012 BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
zot -6 < ~)2
ANTHONY DEBONE, Chair
ALAN UNGER, Vice Chair
ATTEST:
Nwu-L 61AVX~~ ovxv~
Recording Secretary TAMMY BANEY, Commis i er
J' f-
Date of 1stReading: day of , 2012.
Date of 2°d Reading:~~ " day of , , 2012.
Record of Adoption Vote
Commissioner Yes No Abstained Excused
Anthony DeBone
Alan Unger
Tammy Baney
J-1-
Effective date: =may of 22,b, , 2012.
ATTEST
Recording Secretary
PAGE 2 OF 2 - ORDINANCE NO. 2012 - 002
Denotes portions of the code not amended by Ordinance 2012- 002.
Chapter 18. 108. URBAN UNINCORPORATED COMMUNITY ZONE - SUNRIVER
18. 108.110. Business Park- BP District.
18. 108.110. Business Park - BP District.
A. Uses Permitted Outright. The following uses and their accessory uses are permitted outright:
1. Residential uses existing as of March 31, 1997.
2. Administrative, educational and other related facilities in conjunction with a use permitted outright.
3. Library.
4. Recreational path.
5. Post office.
6. Church in building or buildings not exceeding5, 000 square feet of floor area.
67. A building or buildings each not exceeding 8, 000 square feet of floor space housing any
combination of-
Retail/ rental store, office and service establishment, including but not limited to the following:
a. Automobile, motorcycle, boat, recreational vehicle, trailer or truck sales, rental, repair or
maintenance business, including tire stores and parts stores.
b. Agricultural equipment and supplies.
c. Car wash.
d. Contractor's office, including but not limited to, building, electrical, plumbing, heating and air
conditioning, painter, etc..
e. Construction equipment sales, rental and/or service.
f. Exterminator services.
g. Golf cart sales and service.
h. Lumber yard, home improvement or building materials store.
i. Housekeepingand janitorial service.
j. Dry cleaner and/or self- service laundry facility.
k. Marine/ boat sales and service.
1. Restaurant, bar and cocktail lounge including entertainment.
78. A building or buildings each not exceeding 20, 000 square feet of floor space housing any
combination of
a. Scientific research or experimental development of materials, methods or products, including
engineering and laboratory research.
b. Light manufacturing, assembly, fabricating or packaging of products from previously prepared
materials, including but not limited to cloth, paper, leather, precious or semi- preciousmetals or
stones, etc.
c. Manufacture of food products, pharmaceuticalsand the like, but not including the production of
fish or meat products, or the rendering of fats and oils.
d. Warehouse and distribution uses in a building or buildings each less than 10, 000 square feet of
floor area.
B. Conditional Uses Permitted. The following conditional uses may be permitted subject to DCC 18. 128
and a conditional use permit:
1. Public buildings and public utility structures and yards, including railroad yards.
PAGE 1 OF 3 - EXHIBIT " A" TO ORDINANCE 2012- 002 ( 2/ 27/2012)
2. A dwelling unit for a caretaker or watchman working on a developedproperty.
3. Law enforcement detention facility.
4. Parking lot.
5. Radio and television broadcast facilities.
6. A building or buildings each not exceeding 8, 000 square feet of floor space housing any
combination of
a. Bowling alley.
b. Theater.
c. Veterinary clinic and/or kennel.
7. A building or buildings each not exceeding 20, 000 square feet of floor space housing any
combination of:
a. Warehouses and distribution uses in a building or buildings exceeding 10, 000 square feet of
floor area.
b. Distillery and beer/ale brewing facility, including wholesale sales thereof.
c. Self/ mini storage.
d. Trucking company dispatch/terminal.
e. Solid waste/ garbageoperator, not including solid waste disposal or other forms of solid waste
storage or transfer station.
C. Use Limits. The following limitations and standards shall apply to uses listed in DCC 18. 108.110( A) or
B):
1. A use expectedto generate more than 30 truck- trailer or other heavy equipment trips per day to and
from the subject property shall not be permitted to locate on a lot adjacent to or across the street
from a lot in a residential district.
2. Storage, loading and parking areas shall be screened from residential zones.
3. No use requiring air contaminant dischargepermits shall be approvedby the Planning Director or
Hearings Body prior to review by the applicable state or federal permit reviewing authority, nor
shall such uses be permitted adjacent to or across the street from a residential lot.
D. Special Requirementsfor Large Scale Uses.
Any of the uses listed in DCC 18. 108.110( A)(6) or ( B)(6) may be allowed in a building or buildings
each exceeding8, 000square feet of floor space if the Planning Director or Hearings Body finds:
1. That the intended customers for the proposed use will come from the community and surrounding
rural area, or the use will meet the needs of the people passing through the area. For the purposes of
DCC 18. 108.110, the surrounding rural area shall be that area identified as all property within five
miles of the boundary of the Sunriver Urban Unincorporated Community;
2. The use will primarily employ a work force from the community and surrounding rural area; and
3. That it is not practical to locate the use in a building or buildings under 8, 000square feet of floor
space.
E. Height Regulations. No building or structure shall be hereafter erected, enlarged or structurally altered
to exceed 45 feet in height.
F. Lot Requirements. The following lot requirements shall be observed:
1. Lot Area. No requirements.
2. Lot Width. No requirements.
3. Lot Depth. Each lot shall have a minimum depth of 100 feet.
4. Front Yard. The front yard shall be a minimum of 25 feet.
5. Side Yard. No side yard required, except when adjoining a lot in an RS or RM District and then the
required side yard shall be 50 feet. No side yards are required on the side of a building adjoining a
railroad right of way.
6. Rear Yard. No rear yard required, except when adjoining a lot in an RS or RM District and then the
rear yard shall be 50 feet. No rear yard is required on the side of a building adjoining a railroad
right of way.
PAGE 2 OF 3 - EXHIBIT " A" TO ORDINANCE 2012- 002 ( 2/ 27/2012)
7. Lot Coverage. The maximum lot coverage by buildings and structures shall be 50 percent of the
total lot area.
Ord. 2012- 002 41, 2012, Ord. 97- 078 § 2, 1997)
PAGE 3 OF 3 - EXHIBIT " A" TO ORDINANCE 2012- 002 ( 2/ 27/2012)
FINDINGS
The Deschutes County Board of Commissioners ( Board) held a public hearing on February 27,
2012 on Ordinance 2012-002, amending the County's Sunriver Urban Unincorporated
Community Zone, Business Park District ( SUBP), regulations. The Board closed the hearing on
February 27. On February 27, 2012, the Board chair conducted the first and second reading by
title only and adopted the ordinance, declaring it an emergency.
BACKGROUND
The Door at Three Rivers Church has proposed an amendment to the Deschutes County Code
that would permit churches in the Business Park zoning district of the Urban Unincorporated
Community Zone ( UUC) of Sunriver. Currently, churches are not a use permitted in the SUBP
Zone. The Sunriver Business Park includes a mix of uses permitted outright or conditionally
that are commercial and light industrial in nature. However, there are other uses ( e. g. library)
not necessarily considered commercial or industrial in nature, as called for in the
Comprehensive Plan policies, that are permitted. The applicant indicates that a church exhibits
similar characteristics to those uses already permitted in the zone. The Planning Commission
held a work session and public hearing on the proposed text amendment. There were no public
comments at the hearing; however, the applicant did submit additional written comments. The
Planning Commission has recommended, by a six to one majority vote, that the amendment be
approved.
The Sunriver Resort includes a mixture of residential, commercial, and industrial uses within its
boundaries. The Sunriver Business Park District is one ( 1) of 18 zoning districts included in the
Sunriver UUC. The County Comprehensive Plan indicates the Sunriver Business Park " was
originally established to accommodate light industrial development to support the employment
needs of the community and surrounding area." However, through the formation of the current
zoning regulations in the area, it was determined that the Business Park was " primarily
commercial in nature" and less industrial. Therefore, the County zoning ordinance reflects the
progression from industrial to commercial, while still allowing light industrial development. The
Comprehensive Plan provides three policies related to the Business Park District. The policies
are as follows:
A variety of commercial uses which support the needs of the community and surrounding
rural area, and not uses solely intended to attract resort visitors, should be encouraged.
Allow small- scale, low- impactcommercial uses in conformance with the requirements of
OAR Chapter 660, Division 22. Larger more intense commercial uses shall be permitted
if they are intended to serve the community, the surrounding rural area and the travel
needs of people passing through the area.
Small-scale, low- impact industrial uses should be allowed in conformance with the
requirements of OAR Chapter 660, Division 22.
Although the Comprehensive Plan accommodates both commercial and light industrial uses in
the Business Park District, as indicated above, the zoning ordinance includes uses that may not
be considered commercial or industrial in nature. These include uses such as a library and post
office, which are permitted outright and a law enforcement detention facility, which is permitted
conditionally. Furthermore, there are some commercial uses permitted conditionally in the
Business Park District that could be considered comparable to churches in the sense that they
PAGE 1 OF 4 - EXHIBIT " B" TO ORDINANCE 2012- 002 ( 2/ 27/2012)
bring together people in one place for an event. These uses include theaters and bowling
alleys. As indicated in the submitted application, the applicant requests that churches be
included as a use permitted outright in the Business Park District. For reference, the Sunriver
UUC allows churches in six ( 6) of its 18 zoning districts. Of the six zoning districts, churches
are allowed with a conditional use permit in residential zoning districts and allowed outright in
commercial and community related zoning districts.
STATEWIDE PLANNING GOALS
The proposed amendment would revise Deschutes County Code, Title 18, to permit churches
as a use permitted outright in the SUBP Zone. The following findings demonstrate compliance
with applicable statewide planning goals and state law.
Goal 1, Citizen Involvement, will be satisfied through our County text amendment process
that includes public hearings with the County Planning Commission and with the Board.
Goal 2, Land Use Planning, was reviewed by staff for compliance. Staff determined the
proposed amendment satisfies the intent of the goal to assure an adequate factual base
and be in accordance with the County's Comprehensive Plan Urban Growth
Management Chapter. In addition, this specific text amendment takes into account
federal conformance with the Religious Land Use and Institutionalization Persons Act
RLUIPA), 42 U. S.C. § 2000cc-1 et seq. Based on a Land Use Board of Appeals
LUBA) case, 1000 Friends of Oregon v. Clackamas County, 46 Or LUBA 375 ( 2004), it
is staff's understanding that RLUIPA does not require local governments to provide for
churches in all zones within its jurisdiction or prohibit local governments from excluding
churches from some zoning districts. Although the Sunriver UUC provides for churches
in six of its 18 zoning districts, staff believes that allowing churches in the Business Park
zoning district will continue to provide a mixture of land uses in Sunriver. For reference,
the general rule of RLUIPA indicates the following:
a) General rule
No government shall impose a substantial burden on the religious exercise of a
person residing in or confined to an institution, as defined in section 1997 of this title,
even if the burden results from a rule of general applicability, unless the government
demonstrates that imposition of the burden on that person-
1) is in furtherance of a compelling governmental interest, and
2) is the least restrictive means of furthering that compelling governmental interest
Goal 3 and 4, Agricultural and Forest Lands, was reviewed by staff and determined that
amending DCC Chapter 18. 108 to allow church use in an urban unincorporated
community would not adversely affect agricultural and forest lands.
Goal 5, Natural Resources, Scenic and Historic Areas, and Open Spaces, is met through
existing County policy and regulations.
Goal 6, Air, Water and Land Resources Quality, is not applicable because the
amendment to DCC Chapter 18. 108 will allow church use in an urban unincorporated
community and not affect air, water, and land resource quality already allocated for
commercial and light industrial use.
Goal 7 and 8, Natural Hazards and Recreational Needs, are satisfied through existing
County policy and regulations.
PAGE 2 OF 4 - EXHIBIT " B" TO ORDINANCE 2012- 002 ( 2/ 27/2012)
Goal 9 and 10, Economic Development and Housing, are satisfied through existing
County policy and regulations.
Goal 11, Public Facilities and Services, is not applicable because the amendment to
allow churches in an urban unincorporated community will not impact the public facilities
and services already established for the community.
Goal 12, Transportation, provides and encourages a safe, convenient, and economic
system of moving people and goods. The applicant submitted a Trip Generation Report
to illustrate that the addition of church use to the Business Park District would " create a
minimal amount of weekday traffic" when compared to other commercial and light
industrial uses currently permitted in the zone. Senior Transportation Planner, Peter
Russell, reviewed the Trip Generation Report submitted by the applicant and, based on
three factors, initially determined that the applicant needed to demonstrate compliance
with the Transportation Planning Rule ( TPR), Section 0060 of OAR Chapter 660,
Division 12. Specifically, the trip generation report does not adequately conclude
whether there is a significant effect on the affected roads based on the intended change
to the zone. Mr. Russell indicated in his December 21, 2011 memorandum, "[ t] he
applicant has only submitted an inventory of the number of lanes, posted speed, and
functional classification, etc...." but had not provided an evaluation of the performance
standards of the intersection of South Century Drive and Venture Lane ( affected roads).
Therefore, Planning staff initially required the applicant to provide a detailed traffic study
analyzing the level of service for affected roads to a planning horizon year. The resulting
data would have determined whether there would be significant effect as defined by the
TPR. The applicant indicated that the submitted " trip generation report satisfies all
applicable requirements" and the proposed text amendment will not result in greater
impact to the affected roads. In addition, the applicant submitted legal interpretation by
two land use attorneys, Bruce W. White and Liz Fancher, regarding whether the
proposed text amendment necessitates a detailed traffic study as required by staff. The
Planning Commission recommended approval of the proposed text amendment without
a detailed traffic study. Moreover, after further review, Planning staff finds no additional
transportation analysis required based on the fact the proposed church will generate less
traffic than other outright permitted uses in the zone.
Goal 13, Energy Conservation, is satisfied through existing County policy and regulations.
Goal 14, Urbanization, was reviewed by staff and determined that by amending DCC
Chapter 18. 108 to allow church use in the urban unincorporated community of Sunriver
would not adversely affect agricultural and forest operations in the surrounding area.
Furthermore, the proposed amendment would not interfere with the efficient functioning of
the closest urban growth boundaries associated with the cities of Bend and La Pine.
In addition, staff reviewed the Oregon Administrative Rules for unincorporated
communities, OAR 660, Division 22. Staff determined the proposed amendment to allow
churches in the Sunriver Business Park District will coincide with the requirement to
provide a mixture of land uses within the UUC. Furthermore, the proposed land use is
intended to serve the community and surrounding rural area. The proposed amendment
limits building size to a. maximum 5, 000 square feet. The applicant states, " Churches
are not included in the definitions nor considered ' commercial' or ' industrial' under the
rule, and thus is not subject to the rules' building size limitations." Staff believes the
proposed size limitation is a reasonable request. This amendment does not propose
enlargement of the UUC boundaries. As indicated above, the proposal would not
PAGE 3 OF 4 - EXHIBIT " B" TO ORDINANCE 2012- 002 ( 2/ 27/2012)
adversely affect agricultural and forest uses. Transportation planning related to the
amendment is addressed above under Goal 12.
Goals 15 through 19, Willamette River Greenway, Estuarine Resources, Coastal
Shore/ ands, Beaches and Dunes, and Ocean Resources, were reviewed and found not
applicable to this proposal.
DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
The Deschutes County Comprehensive Plan contains policies that address urban growth
management. Staff determined the proposed amendment would be consistent with the County's
Urban Growth Management purpose and policies for the Sunriver UUC. The Sunriver Business
Park District is one ( 1) of 18 zoning districts included in the resort. Although six ( 6) of the 18
zoning districts allow for churches, adding the church use to the Business Park will continue to
provide a mixture of land uses in the Sunriver UUC. As indicated previously, the Comprehensive
Plan includes three policies accommodating commercial and light industrial uses in the Business
Park District. Other uses permitted in the zoning district that are not commercial or industrial in
nature ( e. g. library) and those commercial uses that have similar operational characteristics to a
church ( e. g. theater) illustrate that adding churches to the zone would not significantly affect the
area. Amending the SUBP zone to allow churches in the SUBP zone would coincide with the
theme of providing the " greatest practical degree of flexibility for future growth and development in
Sunriver," as agreed upon when first establishing the Sunriver Resort as a UUC. As indicated
above, six of the 18 zoning districts allow churches. For purposes of comparison, churches are
permitted outright in three Sunriver zoning districts including Commercial, Community General,
and Community Neighborhood Districts. Three residential zones allow churches with a
conditional use permit. To provide consistency, staff concurs with the applicant regarding allowing
churches outright in the SUBP zone. Lastly, staff believes the proposed church use will support
the needs of the community and surrounding rural area.
PAGE 4 OF 4 - EXHIBIT " B" TO ORDINANCE 2012- 002 ( 2/ 27/2012)