s .
VOL 40 PAGE907
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
An Ordinance Adopting Deschutes)
County Personnel Rules, and )
Delcaring an Emergency and )
Providing Effective Dates. ) ? t . i; 1981
ORDINANCE NO. 81- 053 ROSEMMYPATTEPSODESCHUTESCOU N
NTY CLERK
WHEREAS, the Board of County Commissioners has considered
the necessity of upgrading and improving the Deschutes County
Personnel Rules; and
WHEREAS, rules of procedure are necessary for the
functioning of personnel practices within Deschutes County for those
employees not covered by a collective bargaining agreement; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary that the Personnel Rules be
adopted by Ordinance in order to make them effective to all such
employees; now, therefore,
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY,
OREGON ORDAINS as follows:
Section 1. That the Personnel Rules, marked Exhibit " A,"
attached hereto and by this reference incorporated herein, are hereby
adopted as the Personnel Rules of Deschutes county, Oregon.
Section 2. This Ordinance being necessary for the
immediate preservation of public peace, health and safety, an
emergency is declared to exist, and this Ordinance takes effect on
December 1, 1981, except that those provisions relating to the
accrual of vacation leave contained in Section 9. 23, take effect on
January 1, 1982.
DATED this O2-1 day of 1981.
ATTEST:
SUSAN STONEMAN
Recording Secretary
BOA OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
OF HUTES COUNTY, OREGON
e,
ROBERT C. PAULSON, JR., Chairma
AL E T DUNG.,' o er ,
Y C. PAAD, Commissioner
ORDINANCE NO. 81- 053, PAGE 1
EXHIBIT " A"
VOA 40 ?ACE9318
PERSONNEL RULES
DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
VOL 40 PAGE9A
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pag e
SECTION 0. 0 Definitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
SECTION 1. 1 Purpose . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
SECTION 1. 2 Application of These Rules . . . . . . . . . 3
SECTION 1. 3 Adoption, Amendment and Administration of
Rules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
SECTION 2. 1 Purpose and Nature of Position Classification
Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
SECTION 2. 2 Maintenance of Classification Plan . . . . . 4
SECTION 3. 1 Purpose and Nature of the Pay Plan . . . . 6
SECTION 3. 2 Development and Administration of the Pay
Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
SECTION 3. 3 Pay Rates - General . . . . . . . . . 6
SECTION 3. 4 Pay Changes, Not Performance Based . . . . . 9
SECTION 3. 5 Pay Changes, Performance Based . . . . . . . 10
SECTION 4. 1 Recruitment and Selection Policy . . . . . . 11
SECTION 4. 2 Recruitment Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
SECTION 4. 3 Selection Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
SECTION 5. 1 Appointments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
SECTION 5. 2 Trial Service . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
SECTION 6. 1 Performance Evaluations - Purpose . . . . . . 14
SECTION 6. 2 Periods of Evaluation . . . . . . . . . . 15
SECTION 6. 3 Responsibility for Performance Evaluation 16
SECTION 6. 4 Unsatisfactory Evaluations . . . . . . . 16
SECTION 6. 5 Performance Evaluation Appeal Procedure . 17
SECTION 7. 1 Work Rules and Disciplinary Action -
Purpose . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
SECTION 7. 2 Work Rules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
i
4 ~
VOL 40 PAGE910
SECTION 7. 3 Responsibilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
SECTION 7. 4 Discipline or Discharge . . . . . . . . . . . 20
SECTION 8. 1 County Personnel Benefits and Practices -
Holidays . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
SECTION 8. 2 Travel Expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
SECTION 8. 3 Safety . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
SECTION 8. 4 Legal Liability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
SECTION 8. 5 Health and Welfare . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
SECTION 9. 1 Leaves of Absence - General . . . . . . . . . 24
SECTION 9. 2 Vacation Leave . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
SECTION 9. 3 Sick Leave with Pay . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
SECTION 9. 4 Sick Leave Without Pay . . . . . . . . . . 27
SECTION 9. 5 Military Leave . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
SECTION 9. 6 Other Leaves of Absence With Pay . . . . . . 28
SECTION 9. 7 Other Leaves of Absence Without Pay . . . . . 29
SECTION 10. 1 Grievance Procedure - Policy . . . . . . . . 30
SECTION 10. 2 Grievance Procedure . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
SECTION 10. 3 Time Limits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
SECTION 10. 4 County Liability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
SECTION 10. 5 Extension of Time Limits . . . . . . . . . . 31
SECTION 10. 6 Prohibited Practices . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
SECTION 11. 1 Separation from County Service - Layoff . . . 32
SECTION 11. 2 Reassignment of Duties . . . . . . . . . . . 32
SECTION 11. 3 Rehiring of Layoffs . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
SECTION 11. 4 Resignations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
SECTION 11. 5 Exit Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
SECTION 12. 1 Personnel Records Management - Purpose 34
SECTION 12. 1 Responsibility and Authority . . . . . . . . 34
ii
f
VOL 40 PAGE911
SECTION 13. 1 Employee Development - Purpose . . . . . . .
SECTION 13. 2 Development and Administration:
Responsibilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
SECTION 13. 3 Employee Orientation . . . . . . . . . . . .
INDEX . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
35
35
iii
r VOL 40 PA''QE
SECTION 0. 0 DEFINITIONS.
Class. Two or more class descriptions grouped by an occupation,
discipline, or type of work.
Classes of Positions. Two or more Job Titles grouped by an
occupation, discipline, or type of work.
Class Description. A written statement of the nature of the work to
be performed, indicating duties and responsibilities, representative
examples of work and general minimum recruiting qualifications. This
is occasionally referred to in the vernacular as " Job Description."
The class description may be referred to by class title.
Class Title. The name assigned to a class description.
Immediate Family. Refers to an employee's spouse and children, as
defined for coverage under the County's existing group medical plan.
Lead Worker. An employee delegated limited supervisory duties, by
his/ her Department Head. Limited supervisory duties include
distribution of work assignments, maintaining a balanced work load
among a group of employees, reviewing completed work, and keeping
records of work production and attendance of employees. Only persons
NOT exempt from overtime and compensatory time off are eligible to be
designated as a " Lead Worker."
Pay Range. The number assigned to a class description on the salary
schedule.
Pay Step. One of the seven standard levels of pay within a Pay
Range.
Permanent Full- time Employee. A person who has been hired by the
County to work at least thirty- two ( 32) hours per week on a
year- round basis ( minus approved leave as outlined in the Personnel
Rules).
Permanent Part- Time Employee. A person who has been hired by the
County to work at least one- half ( 1/ 2) of the established " full- time"
work schedule of that particular department. The hours worked must
be on a regular and year- round basis ( minus approved leave as out-
lined in the Personnel Rules).
Limited Part- Time Employee. A person who has been hired by the
County to work less than one- half ( 1/ 2) of the established " full-
time" work schedule of that particular department. The hours worked
must be on a regular and year- round basis.
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 1
VOL 40 PAGE913
Personnel Specialist. The person specifically charged by the Board
to be responsible for all personnel management coordination. If such
a specific person has not been hired ( due to lack of funds), this
title shall refer to whomever the Board has charged with the
responsibility of dealing with the specific duty being referenced.
Temporary Full- Time Employee. A person who has been hired by the
County to work at least thirty- two ( 32) hours per week, but not on a
regular and year- round basis.
Temporary Part- Time Basis. A person who has been hired by the County
to work less than thirty- two ( 32) hours per week, and not on a
regular and year- round basis.
Board. The Board of County Commissioners of Deschutes County,
Oregon.
RULE 1. PURPOSE.
SECTION 1. 1 The purpose of these rules is to establish a system of
uniform and appropriate personnel policies and procedures to improve
the quality of personnel administration consistent with the following
merit principles:
1. 11 Recruiting, selecting and advancing employees on the basis of
their relative ability, knowledge and skills, including open
consideration of qualified applicants for initial appointment.
1. 12 Providing equitable and adequate compensation.
1. 13 Training employees, as needed, to assure high quality
performance.
1. 14 Retaining employees on the basis of the adequacy of their
performance, and separating employees whose inadequate
performance cannot be corrected.
1. 15 Assuring fair treatment of applicants and employees in
selection, promotion, training and all other aspects of
personnel administration without regard to political
affiliation, race, color, national origin, sex, religious
creed and mental and physical handicaps ( provided reasonable
accommodation can be made) and with proper regard for their
privacy and constitutional rights as citizens.
1. 16 Assuring that employees are protected against coercion for
partisan political purposes and are prohibited from using
their official authority for the purpose of interfering with
or affecting the result of an election or a nomination for
office.
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 2
voL 40 FAcF914
SECTION 1. 2 APPLICATION OF THESE RULES.
The Personnel Rules shall apply to the classified service, which
shall include all positions now existing or hereafter created in the
County service and not specifically exempted by the Personnel Rules.
These rules shall not apply to officers elected by popular vote and
persons appointed to fill vacancies in elected offices, but shall
apply equally to all their subordinates.
SECTION 1. 3 ADOPTION, AMENDMENT AND ADMINISTRATION OF RULES.
1. 31 Adoption of Personnel Rules. Rules relating to the admin-
istration of the County personnel program shall be adopted by
Resolution of the Board. Rules adopted by the Board shall
become effective upon adoption and shall be available in all
departments.
1. 32 Amendment of Rules. A request for a change in rules may be
submitted at any time by a Department Head or employee in a
written communication to the Board indicating the proposed
change and the reasons therefor. After necessary study, the
Board may amend these rules by Resolution as it believes
proper.
1. 33 Administration of Rules. The Board shall appoint a Personnel
Specialist to administer these rules, make recommendations to
revise the rules and administer the day- to-day aspects of the
personnel system, including, but not limited to, the classifi-
cation plan and pay plan. The Personnel Specialist must
possess the appropriate professional experience and training.
The Board may, at its discretion, combine the personnel
function with another staff function.
RULE 2. CLASSIFICATION PLAN.
SECTION 2. 1 PURPOSE AND NATURE OF POSITION CLASSIFICATION PLAN.
A position classification plan as adopted and amended by the Board
shall be a part of these rules.
2. 11 Purpose of the Classification Plan. The classification plan
is an administrative tool of wide usefulnes' s and value. It
provides a system of standardized titles and common job
language that is critical to the effective administration of
personnel activities, such as: ( a) manpower planning;
b) establishing job performance standards; ( c) establishing
fair and. equitable pay; ( d) developing training programs;
e) developing valid selection and recruitment programs; and
f) establishing appropriate career lines.
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 3
vc~ 40 "ACE 915
2. 12 The classification plan shall consist of positions in the
County service defined by class specification and identified
by the class titles. The classification plan shall be so
developed and maintained that all positions substantially
similar with respect to duties, responsibilities, authority
and character of work are included within the same class, and
that the same schedules of compensation may be made to apply
with equity under like working conditions to all positions in
the same class.
2. 13 Copies of this plan and specifications for individual classes
shall be available in the offices of the Board, Department
Heads and Personnel Specialist, and, shall be available for
inspection during business hours.
2. 14 The classification plan shall include the class descriptions
for the various positions as a guide toward equal pay for
equal work. Class descriptions shall refer to a particular
position, not to the individual filling the position, and
shall be used in all personnel, budget and financial records.
2. 15 Each position shall be allocated to an appropriate class on
the basis of the duties and responsibilities of the position.
2. 16 Each class description shall have a concise written
descriptive title and a written description of the duties and
responsibilities of the position. Class descriptions shall
take into consideration the requirements of the job, and are
merely descriptive and explanatory of the work to be per-
formed. They need not include all the duties, and are not
intended to replace specific work assignments assigned by the
employee's Department Head.
2. 17 When a class description does not sufficiently describe the
work to be performed, a Department Head may compile a work
assignment relating to specific job- related criteria. Such
work assignments shall be kept on file by the Department Head
and filed with the Personnel Specialist. An employee's
evaluation shall be made on the basis of the performance of
the duties and responsibilities included in this document, the
class description, and work assignment.
SECTION 2. 2 MAINTENANCE OF CLASSIFICATION PLAN.
2. 21 Responsibility of the Personnel Specialist. The Personnel
Specialist shall periodically review the classification plan
at his own initiative, or at the request of a Department Head,
employee or other interested party. The purpose of such
review shall be: ( a) to ascertain whether or not the plan
accurately reflects actual conditions; ( b) to determine the
accuracy of the class descriptions; and ( c) to assure that
positions are properly classified. As appropriate, the
Personnel Specialist shall recommend amendments to the
classification plan to the Board'.
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 4
V01 40 PAuE916
2. 22 Procedure and Requirements for Amendment of the Plan. The
following procedure shall be followed when preparing
a new
class description which cannot be allocated to an existing
class description.
a) In coordination with the Department Official, the
Personnel Specialist shall investigate the duties and
required experience and training for the position.
b) The Personnel Specialist shall review the existing class
plan and recommend the allocation of the position to an
existing class or create a new class if the position
cannot be allocated to an existing class.
c) The Board may request the Personnel Specialist during
procedure ( a) above or at any other time to assist the
Department Official in making a study of a department's
staffing pattern and work flow and make recommendations
to the Board concerning improvement in the department
operation.
d) The class descriptions may be reclassified whenever the
duties of the position change materially, provided the
reclassification can be accomplished within the limita-
tions of the current budget.
2. 23 Approval to Create a New Class Description. The Board is to
be notified in writing by a Department Head who wishes to
create a new class description. The Board shall direct the
Personnel Specialist to study the request in accordance with
these rules and make recommendations for approval or dis-
approval. No person shall be hired to fill the position until
the Board renders an affirmative decision. Recruitment,
selection and compensation for the position shall be in
accordance with these rules.
2. 24 Approval to Fill a Vacant Position. All vacant positions
shall be filled subject to the process set out in Rule 4
herein. The Department Official is responsible for selecting
the successful applicant subject to the restrictions of Rule
4, the availability of funds, and the authorization of the
position by the Board. The formal job offer will be made by
the Department Official after authorization is received by the
Board of Commissioners.
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 5
VOL 40 PAGE911
RULE 3. PAY PLAN.
SECTION 3. 1 PURPOSE AND NATURE OF THE PAY PLAN.
3. 11 Purpose of the Pay Plan. The pay plan shall include the
schedule of pay ranges, consisting of minimum and maximum
rates of pay for all classes or positions in the classified
service. The objective of the pay plan shall be to provide a
competitive salary structure to recruit and retain an adequate
supply of competent employees.
3. 12 Standards for Development of the Pay Plan. The development of
the pay plan shall be directly linked to the classification
plan, and shall be based on the principle of equal pay for
equal work. Pay ranges within the pay plan shall be deter-
mined with due regard to such factors as; ( a) uniformity of
pay for each class; ( b) the relative difficulty and respon-
sibility of work; ( c) the recruiting experience of the County;
d) the prevailing rates of pay in both public service and
private industry; ( e) cost of living factors; ( f) the
financial policies of the County; and ( g) other pertinent
economic considerations.
SECTION 3. 2 DEVELOPMENT AND ADMINISTRATION OF THE PAY PLAN.
The Personnel specialist shall be responsible for the development of
the pay plan. At least every three years, the Personnel Specialist
shall survey public and private employers for similar classes in the
private labor markets. The Personnel Specialist shall adjust the
ranges to meet labor market conditions and present the revised pay
plan to the Board for the Board' s consideration and adoption. The
Personnel Specialist shall also be responsible for the uniform
administration of the pay plan.
SECTION 3. 3 PAY RATES - GENERAL.
3. 31 Rate of Pay. Each employee in the classified service shall be
paid at one of the steps in the approved range for the class.
No employee shall receive base pay beyond the established
maximum step for the range. Full- time employees will be paid
the monthly rate. Part- time employees and intermittent
employees shall be compensated on an hourly basis equivalent
to the hourly rate established for regular full- time
employees.
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 6
VOL 40 FACE918
3. 32 Entrance Pay Rate. The entrance pay rate for employees new to
a position shall be based on their experience and the pay
range prescribed for their job title. A Department Head,
subject to a technical review by the Personnel Specialist, may
recommend appointment above the entrance pay rate if the
applicant meets more than the minimum job requirements.
Approval of appointments above the entrance pay rate shall be
granted only in recognition of exceptional qualifications and
experience possessed by the candidate that pertain to that job
title and are needed at present in that position. In no
instance shall an appointment be made if equally qualified
applicants are available at a lower starting rate. Under no
circumstances will an employee receive an entrance pay rate
below the minimum rate prescribed for the class to which he is
appointed.
3. 33 Pay Period. Normal pay periods for County employees shall be
from the first of the month through the last day of the same
month, with payment for that period to be made on the last day
of the month, unless the last day falls on a holiday or a
weekend, in which case it shall be on the preceding work day.
Any person beginning employment by the 25th of the month shall
receive their first ravment at the end of the month.
3. 34 Budgeting for Salary Increases. When submitting the depart-
ment budget to the Board, each department shall indicate the
amount of money which they anticipate later requesting to be
given in salary increases. At that time, the Board shall
determine what amount of money shall be placed in the " pro-
posed" departmental budgets to be reserved for salary
increases.
3. 35 Termination Pay. Any person voluntarily leaving County em-
ployment will receive their last pay check for all salary due
them on the regular pay day of the month during which they
terminate. If an employee is dismissed for cause, he will be
paid within forty- eight ( 48) hours of dismissal.
3. 36 Holiday Pay. Work performed on holidays which fall within the
regular work schedule shall be considered as overtime work,
and the employees who work on such holidays shall be granted
time off or compensation pay on the basis of time- and-one- half
for the hours worked in addition to their regular holiday pay.
If the holiday falls on Sunday, employees not required to work
on the holiday shall receive the succeeding Monday as a paid
holiday. If the holiday falls on a Saturday, employees not
required to work on the holiday shall receive the preceding
Friday as a paid holiday.
3. 37 Seniority and Layoff.
a) Seniority is determined by the length of an employee's
continuous full- time service with a particular County
department.
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 7
VOL 40 PAGE919
b) An employee shall lose all seniority in the event of
voluntarily quitting, discharge for cause, is laid off
work for a period of time greater than thirteen ( 13)
months, or fails to report to work at the termination of
an extended leave of absence, or while on a leave of
absence accepts employment without permission, or is
retired.
c) An employee shall not lose his seniority with the
department if he transfers from one division to another
within the individual department, nor shall the employee
lose vacation and sick leave credits upon such transfer.
d) Layoff shall be in the inverse order of seniority within
classification, with the exception that a senior employee
may be laid off before a junior employee when the junior
employee is performing the job in question in a sub-
stantially superior manner, taking into consideration job
performance, experience and training, and other relevant
factors.
e) Employees shall be recalled in the inverse order of lay-
off. An employee's failure to respond to a recall notice
shall constitute a waiver of the employee's recall
rights.
f) For the purpose of recalling employees from layoff,
notice of recall from a layoff exceeding five ( 5) days
shall be by certified mail, return receipt requested,
sent to the employee at his last known address of record,
or furnished by the employee to the County. For layoff
periods of less than five ( 5) days, a personal visit by
the County representative or a personal telephone call
from the County will suffice.
g) An employee who is promoted to a higher class shall, upon
completion of his probationary period, be given seniority
in that class from date of promotion.
3. 38 Overtime.
a) Overtime shall mean that time an employee is authorized
and directed to work in excess of his regularly scheduled
shift.
b) Overtime shall be computed to the nearest half hour.
c) Overtime shall be paid at a rate of time- and-one- half
1- 1/2) times the regular rate of pay converted to an
hourly rate.
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 8
va 40 PAGE920
d) In lieu of overtime pay, the Department Head may
designate an employee to have compensatory time off. An
employee may request compensatory time off in lieu of
overtime pay. A request for compensatory time off shall
be made in writing prior to the end of the pay period in
which the overtime is worked. An employee designated to
utilize compensatory time off or directed by the Depart-
ment Head to utilize compensatory time off, shall have
the option to request the day on which such compensatory
time off is to be utilized, and the Department Head
shall, within the constraints of manpower and scheduling,
make every best effort to honor that request.
e) Exemptions to Overtime and Compensatory Time Off. The
following positions are exempt from overtime pay and
compensatory time off:
Class Nos. 0005, 0021, 0025, 0111, 0123, 0137, 0235,
0305, 0385, 0395, 1019, 1109, 1211, 1212, 1309, 1419,
1425, 2007, 2009, 2305, 2315, 2321, 3015, 3107, 3223,
4007, 4117, 4205, 4209, 4305.
f) Compensatory time off for approved overtime worked shall
be taken within 180 days of the date such overtime was
earned. In no event shall compensatory time off accrue
beyond a maximum of 40 hours without explicit Board
approval.
3. 39 Exchange Time. Exchange time may be granted by the Department
Head if the employee makes such a request. Exchange time will
be on a one- for-one ( 1 for 1) ratio. Exchange time shall only
be authorized for special circumstances, and not incorporated
into routine schedules.
SECTION 3. 4 PAY CHANGES, NOT PERFORMANCE BASED.
3. 41 Cost of Living Increases. Annually, at the initiation of a
new fiscal year, and when financially possible and reasonable
based on an increase or decrease in the national Consumer
Price Index, the Board shall determine what cost of living
percentage, if any, will be applied to the pay plan.
3. 42 Reclassifications. when a position is reclassified, the
incumbent will be placed at the appropriate step in the range
for that class as recommended by the Personnel Specialist. If
the position is reclassified upward, the incumbent shall be
raised to the minimum for the class or placed on a step in the
range. If the incumbent' s previous pay is more than the
maximum for the range, it shall remain the same until the
maximum for the range exceeds the incumbent's pay.
3. 43 Transfers. When an employee is transferred from one class
description to another within a common pay range, he shall
continue to receive the same pay rate.
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 9
VOL 40 PAGE921
3. 44 Results of Pa Surveys on Classification and Incumbents. If
the Personnel Specialist, after surveying pay data, recommends
that a class be assigned to a higher pay range, incumbents who
are below the minimum of the new range shall be raised to the
minimum of the range. The incumbents shall be eligible for a
cost of living increase in addition to this increase.
SECTION 3. 5 PAY CHANGES, PERFORMANCE BASED.
3. 51 Completion of Trial Service Period. If an employee
satisfactorily completes the Trial Service Period, he is
eligible for a one- step increase, as determined by the
Department Head and the Board.
3. 52 Compensation During Temporary Assignment.
a) An employee who is temporarily assigned to a position
with a higher pay range than his usual position for a
period of thirty ( 30) days or more shall be paid at the
first step of the higher pay range, or he shall be
granted a step pay increase ( 5%) whichever is higher, for
the entire period worked in the temporary assignment. An
employee who is temporarily assigned to a position with a
lower pay range, for any period, shall not receive a
reduction in pay. No such temporary assignment shall
exceed six ( 6) months.
b) " Lead Worker" compensation shall be paid to any employee
who is eligible for compensation for overtime work) if
that employee is designated as a " lead worker" by his/ her
Department Head, with the approval of the Board. Such
compensation shall be 10% of the employee's normal
salary, so long as the funds are budgeted and available
in the department's budget.
3. 53 Promotion. When an employee is promoted from one class
description to another having a higher pay range, he shall
receive an increase of not less than one pay step, or 5%. If
the employee's current pay rate is below the minimum for the
higher class, his pay shall be increased to at least the
minimum rate for the higher class. If the employee's current
rate of pay falls within the range of the higher class, his
pay shall be adjusted to the step and the range for the higher
class which is at least equal to 5% above his current pay, so
long as this does not exceed the pay range of the class.
3. 54 Demotion. When an employee is demoted for cause from one
class to another having a lower pay range, he shall be placed
in a step within the lower range which provides at least a 5%
reduction in pay. When an employee is demoted for administra-
tive purposes through no fault of the employee, his pay shall
be reduced to the maximum rate in the lower pay range, or he
shall continue at his current rate of pay, whichever is lower.
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 10
von 40 PAGE922
3. 55 Merit Step/ Pay Increases. In addition to cost of living
increases, and if funds are available, employees are eligible
for merit increases, provided their performance has met or
exceeded performance standards established by the Board and
Department Officials. Employees are eligible for considera-
tion for merit increases on or after their anniversary date
the date when the employee is taken off probation from his
existing classification). In order for an employee to receive
a merit increase, his/ her Department Head must complete an
evaluation of the employee with a recommendation for the
increase. Employees who are at the top step in their range
are not eligible for merit increases. Normal increases will
be one pay step, or 5%, however, the Board may authorize
higher increases if the Board deems it appropriate.
3. 56 Merit Step/ Pay Increases for Public Works Employees. In
addition to cost of living increases, and if funds are avail-
able, employees are eligible for merit increases, provided
their performance has met or exceeded performance standards
established by the Board and Department Officials. Employees
are eligible for consideration of merit increases on February
lst of each year, if they have completed their probationary
period prior to November 1 of the preceding year. In order
for an employee to receive a merit increase, his/ her Depart-
ment Head must complete an evaluation of the employee with a
recommendation for the increase. Employees who are at the
top step of their range are not eligible for merit increases.
Normal increases will be one pay step, or 5%, however, the
Board may authorize higher increases if the Board deems it
appropriate.
RULE 4. RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION.
SECTION 4. 1 RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION POLICY
It shall be the policy of Deschutes County to recruit and select the
most qualified persons for positions in the County service. Recruit-
ment and selection shall be conducted in an affirmative manner to
ensure open competition, provide equal employment opportunity, and to
prohibit discrimination because of race, politics, religion, color,
sex, age, marital status, national origin, mental or physical
handicap ( provided reasonable accommodations can be made), or any
other non- merit factors.
SECTION 4. 2 RECRUITMENT PROGRAM.
The Personnel Specialist shall develop and
cruitment program designed to meet current
needs. Recruitment will be tailored to the
tions to be filled and will be directed t
yield qualified candidates.
conduct an active re-
and projected manpower
various classes of posi-
o all sources likely to
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 11
VOL 40 FACE923
4. 21 Job Announcements. In order to attract an adequate number of
candidates for present or anticipated vacancies and to permit
successful competition with other employers, the Personnel
Specialist will issue job announcements and otherwise publi-
cize vacancies through such media as he deems appropriate in
addition to distributing announcements to County employees and
posting on the County " Job Board" near the Board' s office.
Publicity for job vacancies shall be conducted for a suffi-
cient period of time to ensure reasonable opportunity for
persons to apply and be considered for employment.
4. 22 Application Forms. All applications for employment shall be
made on forms prescribed by the Personnel Specialist and
approved by the Board. Such forms shall require background
information to include training, experience, and all other
pertinent information. All applications must be signed, and
the Personnel Specialist may require proof of statements as he
deems appropriate. Application forms shall not elicit any
information concerning race, politics, religion, color, sex,
age, marital status, or national origin. Such data may be
obtained separately for research purposes only.
4. 23 Re) ection of Applications. The Personnel Specialist may
reject any application which indicates that the applicant does
not meet the minimum qualifications established for the posi-
tion to which he is applying. Applications may also be
rejected if the applicant:
a) Has deliberately falsified his application;
b) Is physically, mentally or otherwise unable to perform
the duties of the position, provided reasonable
accommodations cannot be made;
c) Has been convicted of a crime which renders him
unsuitable for the position to which he has applied;
d) Has established an unsatisfactory employment record of
such nature as to demonstrate his unsuitability for the
position to which he has applied;
e) Is a member of an organization which advocates the
overthrow of the government of the United States by force
or violence;
f) Based on the other job- related factors is found by the
Personnel Specialist to be clearly unsuitable for the
position to which he has applied.
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 12
VOL 40 PACE924
SECTION 4. 3 SELECTION PROGRAM.
The selection process shall maximize reliability, objectivity and
validity through a practical and job- related assessment of applicant
attributes necessary for successful job performance and career
development. Current County employees who apply for an open position
shall be given the same consideration as non- County employees.
4. 31 Open Competitive Selection. The Personnel Specialist shall be
responsible for determining the selection devices to be used
to obtain the best qualified candidates for each class of
positions. Selection devices shall be utilized separately or
in various combinations appropriate to the class and to
available manpower resources. Such selection devices may
include work sample and performance tests, practical written
tests, individual physical examinations and background and.
reference inquiries. In the development of selection devices,
the Personnel Specialist will confer with Department Heads,
consultants or others skilled in or familiar with minimum job
requirements.
4. 32 Initial Screening. When the County has available a full- time
Personnel Specialist, the Personnel Specialist shall screen
all applicants and recommend to the Department Head, selection
committee or the Board, those applicants who possess the
requirements for the position.
4. 33 Selection Committee. When hiring persons to fill supervisory
and management positions, it is highly desirable to form a
selection committee to review the applications and make rec-
ommendations to the Board of at least the top three candi-
dates. The selection committee should be composed of the
immediate supervisor to the position ( if other than the
Board), the Personnel Specialist, and experts in the disci-
pline concerned from within the State or local area.
4. 34 Selecting Successful Applicant. The Department Head in the
department where the vacancy exists shall be responsible for
interviewing and selecting the successful applicant, but the
final hiring authority shall rest with the Board. Final
approval by the Board shall be expected if the following
conditions are:
a) The department receives prior approval from the Board to
fill the vacancy. In order to comply with this require-
ment, there must be an established position and available
funds
b) The applicant selected by the Department Head must meet
or exceed the qualifications which are established for
the vacant position.
c) The department must follow the procedure for filling the
vacant position ( see Rule 4).
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 13
Vol 40 PAGE925
RULE 5. ORIGINAL APPOINTMENT AND TRIAL SERVICE.
SECTION 5. 1 APPOINTMENTS.
All employees shall be employed in accordance with these rules. Any
apointment made in violatin of these rules shall be null and void.
SECTION 5. 2 TRIAL SERVICE.
5. 21 Length of Trial Service Period. Every person appointed to a
position in the classified service shall serve a trial service
period of at least six ( 6) months.
5. 22 Extension of Trial Service Period. The usual six- month trial
service period may be extended by the Department Head ( or the
Board if the employee is a Department Head) on a month- tomonth
basis, not to exceed a total trial service period of twelve
12) months.
5. 23 Evaluation During Trial Service Period. Each employee shall
be evaluated twice during trial service, once after two ( 2)
months work and again just prior to the completion of six ( 6)
months. The employee must be evaluated " Meets Standards" or
better in order to achieve permanent status ( see also Rule 6).
An employee who was started on Step " A" of their pay range
shall automatically advance to Step " B" upon satisfactory
completion of his trial service period.
5. 24 Responsibility of Evaluators. The employee's immediate
supervisor shall be responsible for completing the performance
evaluation reports on the trial service employee. The super-
visor' s evaluation shall be reviewed by the Department Head
and copies given to the employee and the Personnel Specialist.
The Department Head is responsible for seeing that these re-
ports are completed in a timely and proper fashion.
5. 25 Responsibility of Personnel Specialist. The Personnel
Specialist shall be responsible for notifying Department Heads
of the six- month performance review date.
RULE 6. PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS.
SECTION 6. 1 PURPOSE.
The purpose of the employee performance evaluation program is to
inform employees of how well they are performing and to offer con-
structive criticism on how they can improve their work performance to
achieve the goals established by supervisory personnel. Performance
evaluation shall also be considered in decisions affecting salary
advancement, promotions, demotions, dismissals, order of layoff,
order of re- employment, placement and training needs.
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 14
VOL 49 PAGE926
SECTION 6. 2 PERIODS OF EVALUATION.
Each employee in the classified service shall hal
ance evaluated ( and the results delivered to and
employee, kept on file in the department office
Specialist' s office) at the following times, and
be performed in accordance with Rule 6. ( See
Guidelines, Appendix A.)
7e his/ her perform-
discussed with the
and the Personnel
such reviews shall
also: Evaluation
6. 21 Trial Service Period . An employee shall be evaluated at
least twice, according to Section 5. 23, during their trial
service period ( near the middle and at the end).
6. 22 Annual.
a) After the completion of the trial service period, all
employees will be evaluated on their anniversary date.
An employee's anniversary date will be date on which an
employee completes his/ her probationary period.
Employees will either be evaluted on their anniversary
date, or one year from their last evaluation on their
performance in that particular classification.
b) Employees working in the Public Works Department shall be
evaluated annually on February lst. ( See Section 3. 56.)
6. 23 Time of Separation. Each employee shall be evaluated at the
time of separation, and such record shall become part of his
permanent personnel file.
6. 24 Special Evaluations - Required. A special performance
evaluation shall be completed whenever:
a) There is a significant change either upward or downward
in the employee's performance;
b) A supervisor permanently leaves his position. The
supervisor shall complete a performance report on each
employee under his supervision who has not been evaluated
within six ( 6) months prior to the date the supervisor is
to leave his position.
6. 25 Special Evaluations - Optional. Department Heads may evaluate
employees at times in addition to those required.
6. 26 Evaluation of Department Heads. Evaluation of Department
Heads shall follow all sections of Rule 6, and shall be
performed by the Board.
a) The Board member who is the liaison to a given department
shall be responsible for drafting an evaluation for that
Department Head. Then the Board shall meet in Executive
Session to discuss the draft and arrive at a final
evaluation by consensus.
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 15
VOL 40 PACE927
b) The following is a list of positions which shall be
evaluated by the Board:
Administrative Services Director
Building Official*
County Counsel
County Librarian*
Data Processing Manager
Health Services Director*
Hearings Officer
Planning Director*
Public Works Director*
Supervising Sanitarian
Veterans Services Officer
The Board may utilize the assistance of advisory groups
which work with these agencies, when such exist.
The Board of Commissioners will hear any suggestions to
improve the efficient operation of the County, including
constructive criticism of supervisory personnel made in
good faith for the improvement of performance.
SECTION 6. 3 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PERFORMANCE EVALUATION.
6. 31 Immediate Supervisor. The employee's immediate supervisor
shall be responsible for completing a performance evaluation
report at the time prescribed for each employee under his or
her supervision, as provided for in these rules.
6. 32 Joint Responsibilities. The immediate supervisor shall
discuss the performance evaluation with the employee before
the report is made part of the employee's permanent record.
6. 33 Personnel Specialist. The Personnel Specialist shall be
responsible for the overall administration of the employee
performance evaluation program. He shall advise and assist
employees, immediate supervisors and Department Heads to
ensure that performance evaluation procedures are handled in
accordance with the provisions stated in this section. He
shall be responsible for designing and revising any necessary
forms and instructions.
SECTION 6. 4 UNSATISFACTORY EVALUATION.
Employees who receive an unsatisfactory evaluation shall not be
eligible to receive a salary step increase.
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 16
va 40 PAGE928
SECTION 6. 5 PERFORMANCE EVALUATION APPEAL PROCEDURE.
Employee performance evaluation reports shall be limited to Step I
and Step II of the Grievance Procedure. Deleterious reports shall be
removed from the employee's file if a grievance on the report is
decided ( by the Department Head) in favor of the employee.
RULE 7. WORK RULES AND DISCIPLINARY ACTION.
SECTION 7. 1 PURPOSE.
The orderly and efficient operation of the County government requires
that certain work rules be established. Work rules covering personal
standards of conduct, as well as standard operating procedures, are
necessary to protect the health and safety of all employees, maintain
uninterrupted service, notify employees at the time they are hired of
the conduct expected of them, and to protect the County's goodwill,
its property, and the public interest.
SECTION 7. 2 WORK RULES.
The following work rules, and those in other sections of these
Personnel Rules, shall be applicable to all County employees. These
rules are not intended to be all inclusive, and the County shall,
when it deems appropriate, establish additional rules by Board action
to ensure the effective operation of County government.
7. 21 Reporting Time. According to their Department Head direc-
tives, employees must be at their designated work areas on
time and ready to work. Employees shall remain at their work
area, at work, until the scheduled quitting time, unless per-
mission to leave is granted by their supervisor. An employee
shall immediately report to his supervisor his inability to
report to work and the reason therefor. Failure to report to
work or notify office of reason for absence for a period of
twenty- four ( 24) hours following designated time to report
shall be considered an implied resignation.
7. 22 Hours of Work.
a) Office hours in which County facilities are open to the
public shall be established by the Board. Department
Heads shall have personnel available to serve the public
at all times during working hours, unless the Board
specifically changes the hours due to a bona fide
shortage of staff. Department Heads may establish work
schedules that begin earlier than the normal starting
time or end later than the normal quitting time, provided
other sections of these rules are complied with.
b) If employees do not take advantage of the time establish-
ed for lunch hour and rest periods, they will not be
allowed to deduct the unused time from their work sched-
ule.
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 17
von 40 PAcE929
c) The time schedule for lunch periods and breaks is the
employee's own personal time. In the event of a specific
emergency in which an employee's supervisor requests the
employee to work a portion or all of his lunch period,
that amount of time worked will be considered overtime.
However, in the event time is available closely after the
designated lunch period, the employee will be allowed to
take a lunch break. It is anticipated that these special
emergency situations will arise on an extremely limited
basis.
7. 23 Rest Periods. A rest period not to exceed fifteen ( 15) min-
utes shall be permitted for all permanent, full- time employees
during each regular half shift. Department Heads will ensure
that the total rest period does not exceed thirty ( 30) minutes
per full shift.
7. 24 Lunch Periods. The established duration of the lunch period
shall be as close to the middle of the full shift as possible,
commensurate with the efficient operation of the department.
7. 25 Personal Business.
a) County premises, or any premises on which an employee is
required to conduct County business, shall not be used to
conduct personal business during working hours.
b) Employees shall not use County telephones during working
hours for personal calls over one minute in duration.
Personal long distance calls shall not be charged to
County phones; however, personnel suddenly requested to
work overtime shall be allowed to place a call within the
County to notify others of extended hours.
c) Employees shall not engage in solicitation or distribu-
tion of non- County literature or partisan political
activity while on County time or County premises. How-
ever, in regards to the County Library, the County
Librarian will determine what material will be allowed
for display and/or distribution.
d) All County personnel shall conduct their County business
in accordance with the Government Ethics Laws ( ORS
Chapter 244) and the Deschutes County Personnel Rules.
When and if these two are in conflict, whichever is the
most restrictive shall take precedence.
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 18
ti
VOL 40 PAGE930
e) No county personnel shall be allowed to serve the County
e. g., to receive payment from the County unrelated to
their County job) in any private business capacity with-
out specific written authorization from the Board. Such
authorization shall only be given in instances where the
competitive bidding process is used and clearly shows
that all local businesses capable of competing were
notified and had the opportunity to compete.
f) No County employee shall engage in non- County employment
which, in the interpretation of the Board, has the
potential of having a detrimental impact on his/ her
County position or could take unfair advantage of others
due to his/ her County position.
7. 26 Safety. Employees shall follow all safety regulations ( see
Section 8. 3), including the wearing of safety articles and
using protective equipment. Employees shall immediately
report accidents on injury to their supervisor. Employees
shall avoid littering work areas.
7. 27 Courtesy. Employees shall deal with the public in a courteous
and professional manner.
7. 28 County Property. Employees shall be responsible for and shall
not misuse or abuse County property, records or other
materials, or use them for the employee's personal benefit.
County property, records or other materials shall not be
removed from the premises without written permission, except
as required for the performance of an employee's job responsi-
bilities.
7. 29 Parking. Employees shall not park in prohibited areas.
7. 210 General Employee Conduct.
a) Employees shall not restrict, interrupt or interfere with
the work of others.
b) Employees shall not neglect their duties and responsibil-
ities, nor refuse to perform assigned work, nor perform
work in such a manner so as to hinder the effective
performance of County functions.
c) Employees shall not engage in immoral conduct, fight,
engage in horseplay, use abrasive language, or consume
alcoholic beverages while on duty or on County premises.
d) See also Section 8. 4 and other pertinent sections.
7. 211 Records. Employees shall notify their supervisor whenever
there is a change in their personal data. Employees shall not
falsify records, reports, or claims of illness or injury.
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 19
r
VOL 40 PAGE931
7. 212 Relatives in County Service.
a) Two members of an immediate family shall not be employed
under the same supervisor. Neither shall two members of
an immediate family be employed at the same time, regard-
less of the administrative department, if such employment
will result in an employee supervising a member of his
immediate family.
b) The provisions of this section shall apply to promotions,
demotions, transfers, reinstatements and new appoinments.
The provisions of this section shall not be retroactive.
SECTION 7. 3 RESPONSIBILITIES.
7. 31 Supervisors and Department Heads. Supervisors and Department
Heads will require employees to read the provisions of Section
7. 2, and Department Heads shall have primary responsibility
for enforcing those provisions and all others in these
Personnel Rules in their departments.
7. 32 Board of Commissioners. The Board shall take whatever action
necessary to ensure that the provisions of Rule 7 are en-
forced.
7. 33 Personnel Specialist. The Personnel Specialist shall be
responsible for the overall administration of the work rules,
to include recommending revisions, deletions or adoption of
new rules. He shall also be responsible for advising Depart-
ment Heads on the proper implementation of work rules and
reporting suspected or confirmed major or repeated violations
to the Board.
SECTION 7. 4 DISCIPLINE OR DISCHARGE.
In addition to action due to violation of the work rules described in
Section 7. 2, employees shall have disciplinary action taken against
them for inefficiency, incompetence, insubordination, indolence,
malfeasance, or insobriety.
7. 41 Forms of Discipline. Disciplinary actions may be a written
reprimand, suspension, demotion and dismissal from County
service. The form of disciplinary action depends on the
severity of the offense, as well as the number and frequency
of previous acts of misconduct.
a) Written Reprimands. Written reprimands are the lowest
form of disciplinary action, and shall be prepared and
delivered by the supervisor or Department Head.
b) Suspension. Employees may be suspended without pay for
periods not exceeding thirty ( 30) days.
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 20
VOL 40 PAGE932
c) Demotions. The employee's Department Head may demote an
employee to a lower class description and/or reduce the
employee's salary to a lower step in the pay plan.
7. 42 Dismissals.
a) Discharge of Permanent Employees. Employees may be dis-
missed from the County service for cause by a Department
Head or the Board. Dismissed employees shall not be
eligible to be rehired in another County department.
b) Discharge During Trial Service. An employee may be dis-
charged during trial service for any good and sufficient
reason as determined by the Department Head or the Board.
7. 43 Responsibilities of all County Employees.
a) It shall be the duty of all County employees to comply
with and to assist in carrying into effect the provisions
of the County's work rules. No permanent employee shall
be disciplined, except for violation of established rules
and regulations. Such discipline shall be in accordance
with procedures established by the Personnel Rules and
Regulations.
b) Every supervisor or Department Head shall discuss
improper or inadequate performance with the employee in
order to correct the deficiencies and to avoid the need
to exercise disciplinary action. Discipline shall be of
increasingly progressive severity whenever possible.
7. 44 Written Notice. A written reprimand ( or notice) shall be
given to each employee for each significant occurrence of
violation and each disciplinary action, and the date it shall
take effect. The notice shall be given to the employee at or
before the time such action is taken. A copy of the notice
signed by the employee shall be sent to the Personnel
Specialist for inclusion in the employee's personnel file as
prima facie evidence of delivery.
7. 45 Appeal of Disciplinary Action. All employees shall have the
right to appeal disciplinary action taken against them within
five ( 5) working days after notice of such action is
delivered. Appeals shall be made in accordance with the
grievance procedure.
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 21
RULE 8. COUNTY PERSONNEL BENEFITS AND PRACTICES.
SECTION 8. 1. HOLIDAYS.
voL 40 ?AGE933
The following days, fixed by statute, are paid holidays for all
permanent, full- time employees in the County Service:
8. 11 ( a) New Year' s Day ( January 1).
b) Lincoln' s Birthday ( First Monday in February).
c) Washington's Birthday ( Third Monday in February).
d) Memorial Day ( Last Monday in May).
e) Independence Day ( July 4).
f) Labor Day ( First Monday in September).
g) Veteran' s Day ( November 11).
h) Thanksgiving Day ( Fourth Thursday in November).
i) Christmas Day ( December 25).
j) Floating Holiday at Board' s Discretion.
8. 12 Exceptions. Whenever a holiday falls on Sunday, the following
Monday shall be considered a holiday. If any holiday falls on
Saturday, the preceding Friday shall be a holiday in that
year. Holidays which occur during paid vacation or sick leave
shall not be charged against vacation or sick leave. In order
to qualify for holiday pay, employees must work the day before
and after the holiday or be on authorized leave of absence
with pay.
SECTION 8. 2 TRAVEL EXPENSE.
8. 21 Mode of Transportation. Travel on official business shall be
via public carrier or County- owned vehicle whenever possible,
and as directed by the appointing power.
8. 22 Mileage Allowance. Mileage allowance will not be authorized
or paid for on any trips that exceed a prior approval of the
Department Head, unless otherwise required by the Board. If
authorization is granted to use a private vehicle when a
County vehicle is not available, mileage shall be paid at the
rate of $. 20 per mile. However, if a County vehicle is
available, but a request is approved to use a private vehicle,
mileage will be paid only on a one- way basis ( 1/ 2 mileage).
The rate paid for mileage reimbursement will be reviewed and
adjusted annually by the Board.
8. 23 Subsistence Allowance. Reimbursement for subsistence on
official trips shall be the amount of actual and reasonable
expense incurred during the performance of official duty as a
County employee for the County's benefit. Employees are
expected to be frugal in these expenditures. Receipts must be
submitted for reimbursement.
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 22
VOL 40 PAGE934
8. 24 Use of Public Vehicles. Only County employees on official
County business may ride in County vehicles, unless otherwise
authorized by the Board. County vehicles are not to be used
for transportation to and from work. County vehicles are not
to be used for personal business. ( See also Section 3. 36.)
Exceptions to any portion of this section may be granted by
the Board.
SECTION 8. 3 SAFETY.
8. 31 Employee Responsibilities. Department Heads, supervisors and
employees shall guard the safety of themselves, fellow
employees and the public.
8. 32 Accident Reporting. When accidents occur on County property
or in the course of conducting County business, the employee
shall contact his supervisor immediately, and the supervisor
shall complete an accident report form. The Personnel
Specialist or his designee shall be notified of all. accidents
involving County employees and County equipment as soon as
possible and not later than the next work day.
SECTION 8. 4 LEGAL LIABILITY.
8. 41 Employee Responsibilities. Employees shall abide by all laws
and regulations which govern the performance of their duties,
and shall perform their duties as reasonable, prudent persons.
Employees who are reasonably cautious and prudent in the
performance of their duties are not negligent, and therefore,
neither legally nor morally liable for accidents or injuries
which may occur.
8. 42 Employee Liability. If an employee is negligent in the per-
formance of duties and responsibilities, and if an accident
results from such negligent performance of duties and
responsibilities, the employee may be held personally and
legally liable.
SECTION 8. 5 HEALTH AND WELFARE.
8. 51 Insurance. Permanent full- time employees and their immediate
families will receive County- paid health and dental insurance
coverage starting on the first day of the month following
completion of thirty ( 30) days employment with the County.
8. 52 Insurance for Permanent Part- Time Employees. Permanent part-
time employees will receive health and dental insurance
coverage on the first day of the month following completion of
thirty ( 30) days of employment with the County. Coverage on
permanent part- time employees will be limited to the employee
only.
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 23
r
11L 40 PAGE935
8. 53 Temporary Part- Time, Temporary Full- Time, and Limited
Part- Time Employees. Temporary part- time, temporary full- time
and limited part- time employees shall receive no paid health
or welfare benefits.
8. 54 Retirement. The County shall be a participant in the Public
Employes Retirement System ( PERS) or the equivalent. After
the employee has satisfactorily completed his six- month
probationary period, the County shall make employee contri-
butions to the Public Employes Retirement System. This
benefit applies only to permanent employees.
RULE 9. LEAVES OF ABSENCE.
SECTION 9. 1 LEAVES OF ABSENCE, GENERAL.
9. 11 Authorization for Leave. No leave of absence with or without
pay shall be granted unless a written request is submitted by
the employee ( including Department Heads) and approved in
writing by the supervisor in accordance with these rules.
Copies of such requests and approvals shall be kept on file in
the employee's file in the department office. Approval of
leave shall be obtained prior to the beginning of leave
periods, except as may be otherwise provided in these rules.
No payment for any leave of absence with pay shall be made
until leave has been properly approved. Each Department Head,
upon submitting his payroll voucher to the County Clerk, shall
indicate thereon all leaves of absence ( with or without pay)
charged to each employee, and indicate the type of leave. A
copy of the voucher shall be sent to the Personnel Specialist.
9. 12 Accumulation While on Leave. Vacation and sick leave shall
accrue to those employees who are on leave with pay.
9. 13 Leave Computation. For the accumulation of leave credit and
the granting of leave, computation shall be made in hourly
units. Deductions shall not be made from leave accumulations
for regularly assigned days off, or County holidays occurring
during a period of leave with pay if the employee returns to
work on the first day thereafter, or has been granted add-
itional leave.
SECTION 9. 2 VACATION LEAVE.
9. 21 Eligibility. Permanent full- time and permanent part- time
employees can use their accrued vacation leave as soon as
accrued after receiving authorization from their Department
Head.
9. 22 Maximum Accrual. The maximum accrual for vacation leave shall
be equal to a total of two years vacation leave credit. leave
accrued in excess of the above shall be forfeited unless prior
approval for an extension is granted in writing by the Board.
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 24
9. 23
9. 24
VOL 40 PAGE936
Accrual Provisions. Vacation shall be accrued according to
the following two schedules:
Management Personnel ( Class Nos. 0005, 0021, 0025, 0111,
0123, 0137, 0235, 0305, 0385, 0395, 1017, 1109, 1211, 1212,
1309, 1419, 1425, 2007, 2009, 2305, 2315, 2321, 3015, 3107,
3223, 4007, 4117, 4205, 4209, 4305):
Years of Service Days of Vacation Accrual Rate
From 0- 5 Years 144 Hours
After 5 Years 180 Hours
12 Hrs./ Month
15 Hrs./ Month
Non- Management Personnel ( those not listed above):
Years of Service Davs of Vacation Accrual Rate
1- 5 Years 96 Hours 8 Hrs./ Month
5- 10 Years 120 Hours 10 Hrs./ Month
10- 15 Years 144 Hours 12 Hrs./ Month
15- 20 Years 168 Hours 14 Hrs./ Month
20+ Years 180 Hours 15 Hrs./ Month
Vacation leave shall accrue while an employee is on leave with
pay, but not while on leave without pay. No employee shall be
granted leave without pay until after vacation leave that has
accrued to his credit is exhausted.
Employee Transfers. When an employee is transferred to or
appointed to another department, his vacation credit and sick
leave shall be assumed by the new department.
9. 25 Payment Upon Separation. An employee who terminates during
the initial six months of his employment shall not be entitled
to cash compensation in lieu of vacation leave. In case of
death, compensation for accrued vacation leave shall be paid
to the employee's beneficiary. Employees with accrued and
unused vacation leave are not entitled to payment for such
leave upon separation unless they qualify for the " Separation
Bonus" ( see Rule 11. 41).
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 25
VOL 40 FACE93
9. 26 Vacation Scheduling. Department Heads shall establish
staffing schedules to provide vacation leave for employees
annually, and employees shall take vacation leave at the time
scheduled. A record of vacation used shall be kept on file in
the department and in the employee's permanent Personnel File
in the personnel office. Such schedules may be amended to
meet work emergencies or to grant requests of individual
employees. In establishing regular schedules, Department
Heads shall give due consideration to the desires of
individual employees within the limits of work requirements of
the department. Earned compensatory time off cannot be taken
in conjunction with vacation leave unless prior approval is
specifically granted by the Department Head. Department heads
shall gain written permission for their vacation schedule from
the Board, and it shall be kept on file as above. Whenever
possible, seniority shall prevail where there is a conflict in
two or more employees wanting the same time off for vacation
purposes.
9. 27 Mandatory Vacation. At least once each year, the employee
must be allowed to take five ( 5) vacation days consecutively
if accrued.
SECTION 9. 3 SICK LEAVE WITH PAY.
9. 31 Eligibility. Sick leave shall be earned by each permanent
full- time employee in the classified service. Employees shall
be eligible for sick leave with pay immediately upon accrual.
Permanent part- time employees earn sick leave in direct
proportion to the number of hours they work in a ration with
permanent full- time employees.
9. 32 Maximum Accrual. Employees shall accumulate sick leave at the
rate of eight ( 8) hours for each full month of continuous ser-
vice. Accumulation of sick leave is unlimited. However, when
the employee retires from County service, he will be compen-
sated for one- half ( 1/ 2) the accumulated portion of sick leave
above 960 hours.
9. 33 Authorized Usage. Sick leave shall be used only for the
following:
a) When an employee is physically unable to perform duties
because of illness or injury. The employee shall notify
the immediate supervisor as soon as possible prior to the
beginning of the shift. At the request of the immediate
supervisor or other superior, the employee will obtain
certification from an attending physician documenting the
period of illness.
b) Medical or dental care.
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 26
i ,
von 40 PA,- 938
c) Exposure to contagious disease under circumstances by
which the health of the employees with whom associated or
members of the public necessarily dealt with would be
endangered by the attendance of the employee.
d) Illness or death of an employee's mother, father, spouse,
sister, brother, children, grandparents, or other close
relative. Up to three ( 3) working days in succession per
occurrence may be used for these purposes. The Board may
grant additional days for special circumstances.
e) Leave for childbearing is treated as a medical condition
covered by sick leave with pay.
9. 34 Employee Transfer. See Section 9. 24.
9. 35 Payment on Separation. Sick leave is provided by the County
as insurance against loss of income due to illness. No
compensation for accrued sick leave shall be allowed for any
employee upon separation. ( See Rule 9. 32.)
9. 36 Absence Paid by State Industrial Accident Commission. Salary
paid for a period of sick leave also covered by workers'
compensation shall be equal to the difference between the
workers' compensation for lost time and the employee's regular
salary rate. In such instances, prorated charges will be made
against accrued sick leave.
SECTION 9. 4 SICK LEAVE WITHOUT PAY.
9. 41 Extension
sick leave
subject to
period of
exhausted,
exceed six
of Sick Leave. Upon application of an employee,
without pay may be granted by the Department Head
final authorization by the Board for a reasonable
disability after earned sick leave has been
but in no instance shall such leave without pay
months.
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 27
VLOT 40 PAGE939
SECTION 9. 5 MILITARY LEAVE.
9. 51 Military Leave with Pay. An employee who has served with the
County for six months or more immediately preceding an
application for military leave, and who is a member of the
National Guard or of any reserve components of the armed
forces of the United States, is entitled to a leave of absence
from his duties for military purposes for a period not exceed-
ing fifteen calendar days in any calendar year. Such leave
shall be granted without loss of time, pay or other leave, and
without impairment of merit ratings or other rights or
benefits to which he is entitled. Military leave with pay may
be granted only when an employee receives bona fide orders to
active or training duty for a temporary period, and shall not
be paid if the employee does not return to his position
immediately following the expiration of the period for which
he was ordered to duty. Leave with pay shall not be granted
to employees entering the military service for extended and
indefinite periods of active duty ( ref. ORS 408. 290).
9. 52 Military Leave of Absence Without Pay. An employee filling a
permanent full- time position shall be entitled to a military
leave of absence without pay during a period of service with
the armed forces of the United States. He shall, upon
honorable discharge from such service, be returned to a
position in the same class as his last held position, at the
salary rate prevailing for such class, without loss of
seniority or employment rights. If it is established that he
is not physically or mentally qualified to perform the duties
of his former class position by reason of such service, he
shall be reinstated in other work that he is able to perform
at the nearest appropriate level of pay of his former class.
Such employees shall make application for reinstatement within
ninety ( 90) days and shall report for duty within six ( 6)
months following separation from active duty. Failure to
comply may terminate military leave. Where an employee
voluntarily re- enlists, or extends his period of military
service, his military leave shall be deemed cancelled ( ref.
ORS 408. 240).
SECTION 9. 6 OTHER LEAVES OF ABSENCE WITH PAY.
9. 61 Jury Duty. Employees performing jury duty shall receive
regular pay for the period of duty. employees shall sign over
to the County any compensation ( excluding mileage) received as
a result of such duty.
9. 62 Witness Duty. Employees shall receive regular pay for appear-
ance before a court, legislative committee, judicial or quasi-
judicial body as a witness in response to a subpoena or other
direction by proper authority. Employees shall sign over to
the County any compensation ( excluding mileage) received as a
result of such duty.
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 28
f
VOL 40 PAGE940
9. 63 Official Business. Employees shall receive regular pay for
attendance in court in connection with an employee's
officially assigned duties, including the time required going
to and from court or other authorized duties in connection
with County business.
9. 64 Disaster Leave. Regular salary shall be allowed to those
employees who are unable to report for their regular duties
because of natural disasters beyond their control; or because
they are needed to work for the safety of their family or to
prevent property damage; or to help with rescue work to save
life and property; said policy to be effective only when the
County has been declared to be a disaster area by order of the
Governor of the State of Oregon or upon the approval of the
Board.
9. 65 Educational Leave. Must meet the criteria outlined in Section
9. 72 and will be granted on a case- by-case basis.
SECTION 9. 7 OTHER LEAVES OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY.
9. 71 Special Leave. An employee's Department Head may grant a
leave of absence without pay not to exceed 30 calendar days.
Leaves of absence without pay for periods in excess of 30 days
must be approved by the Board.
9. 72 Educational Leave of Absence.
a) After completing one year of continuous service, a
full- time employee, upon written request, may be granted
a leave of absence without pay by the Board ( with depart-
mental approval), for the purpose of upgrading his
professional ability through enrollment in educational
courses related to his employment at an accredited
school. The period of such leave of absence shall not
exceed one year, but may be renewed or extended upon
request of the employee and approved by the Board. One
year leaves of absence, with requested extensions, for
educational purposes may not be provided more than once
in any three- year period.
b) Employees may be granted time off with pay for educa-
tional purposes for reasonable lengths of time to attend
conferences, seminars, briefing sessions, training pro-
grams and other programs of similar nature that are
intended to improve or upgrade the employee's skill and
professional ability, when directed by the Department
Official.
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 29
VOL 40 PA`'uE94.E
RULE 10. GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
SECTION 10. 1 POLICY.
The County shall promptly consider and equitable adjust employee
grievances relating to employment conditions and relationships. Fur-
thermore, the County desires to adjust the causes of grievances
informally both supervisors and employees are expected to resolve
problems as they arise.
SECTION 10. 2 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
The following steps shall be followed in submitting and processing a
grievance:
10. 21 STEP I. The aggrieved employee or group of employees shall
orally present the grievance to the immediate
supervisor within five ( 5) working days from the
occurrence thereof or the employee's knowledge of
the facts thereof. The supervisor shall give his
oral reply within three ( 3) working days of the
date of presentation of the grievance, not
including the date of presentation.
10. 22 STEP II. If the grievance is not settled in Step I, it shall
be prepared in detail, shall be reduced to writing,
shall be dated, shall be signed by the aggrieved
employee or group of employees, and shall be pre-
sented by the aggrieved party to the Department
Head within five ( 5) working days after the super-
visor' s oral reply is given, not including the day
the answer is given. The Department Head shall
reply in writing to the grievance within five ( 5)
working days of the date of the presentation of the
written grievance, not including the day of presen-
tation.
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 30
VOL 40 FAGS ,942
10. 23 STEP III. If the grievance is not settled in Step II, the
written grievance shall be presented by the
aggrieved, party along with all pertinent corre-
spondence, records and information accumulated to
date to the Board, within seven ( 7) working days
after the Department Head' s response is given. The
Board may meet with the aggrieved employee or group
of employees, the immediate supervisor, and the
Department Head. The Board shall reply to the
grievance in writing within seven ( 7) working days
after the date of presentation of the written
grievance. If the grievance relates to the disci-
pline or discharge of an employee, the Board shall
hold a hearing before issuing a reply. If an
employee being considered for discipline or dis-
charge so chooses, the County's Employee Council
if such exists) shall be allowed to take part in
the hearing before the Board, and allowed to make
comment and recommendation to the Board. No appeal
of a discharge shall be final until the hearing is
held and the reply issued when a grievance relates
to a discipline or discharge of an employee. The
decision of the Board shall be final and binding on
the employee or the group of employees and the
supervisor or Department Head concerned.
SECTION 10. 3 TIME LIMITS.
If the grievance procedures are not initiated within the time limits
established by this Section, the grievance shall be considered not to
have existed.
SECTION 10. 4 COUNTY LIABILITY.
If the County fails to meet or answer any grievance within the time
limits prescribed for such action by this Section, such grievance
shall automatically advance to the next step.
SECTION 10. 5 EXTENSION OF TIME LIMITS.
The time limits prescribed in this Section for the initiation and
completion of the steps of the grievance procedure may be extended by
mutual consent of the parties so involved. Mutual consent shall be
indicated in writing, and shall be signed by all parties involved.
SECTION 10. 6 PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
No employee shall be disciplined or discriminated against in any way
because of the employee's proper use of the grievance procedure.
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 31
x r
ZL 40 PAGE943
RULE 11. SEPARATION FROM COUNTY SERVICE.
SECTION 11. 1 LAYOFF.
If there are changes in duties in the organization, abolition of
position, lack of work, or shortage of funds, the Board may lay off
employees; however, the Board shall first make every reasonable
effort to integrate those employees into another department by
transfer. When layoffs are required, Department Heads and the Board
shall base the decision on each employee's job skill level and value
to the County, and shall give consideration to seniority in the
County service only where the employees' qualifications and ability
are relatively equal. Whenever feasible, departments and the Board
shall lay off part- time employees first, probationary employees next,
and full- time employees last.
SECTION 11. 2 REASSIGNMENT OF DUTIES.
Duties performed by laid off employees may be reassigned to other
employees already working who hold positions in appropriate classes.
SECTION 11. 3 REHIRING OF LAYOFFS.
Once Board approval has been given to rehire, Department Heads and
the Board shall rehire employees in the inverse order of lay off;
employees laid off last shall be called back first, providing the
procedure will guarantee the effective operation of the unit.
SECTION 11. 4 RESIGNATIONS.
In order to resign in good standing, an employee must give the
Department Head or the Board at least fourteen ( 14) calendar days
written notice. Employees excluded from overtime coverage will give
thirty ( 30) calendar days written notice. The Board may agree to a
shorter period of notice.
11. 41 SEPARATION BONUS.
In the event an employee separates from County service in good
standing ( retirement, resignation with proper notice) he is entitled
to receive payment for any accumulated vacation time. This separation
bonus does not apply to probationary employees.
SECTION 11. 5 EXIT INTERVIEW.
11. 51 Purpose. The purpose of the exit interview is threefold:
a) The exit interview can further good public relations by
helping to correct misinformation or modify negative
attitudes that the employee may have developed about
County government or County employment.
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 32
von 40 PAGE944
b) The exit interview can further good employee relations by
letting the employee know that the County is interested
in him and his future plans. The interviewer can also
provide information and assistance that might be useful
to the departing employee.
c) The exit interview is an excellent management tool to
gain insight into the effectiveness of County personnel
and managerial practices, to determine where personnel
policies and procedures are in need of review or revi-
sion, and to determine where supervisory or managerial
practices need modification or improvement.
11. 52 Conducting the Exit Interview. Unless waived by the Board, an
exit interview shall be conducted with every employee who is
separating from County employment, regardless of his length of
service, his position, or the circumstances of his separation.
11. 53 Responsibility of Personnel Specialist. The Personnel
Specialist shall be responsible for conducting all exit inter-
views. The Personnel Specialist shall assure that each
employee is interviewed prior to this separation from County
employment. He shall also analyze the results of each inter-
view to determine how they may relate to current personnel
policies and procedures.
11. 54 Timing of Interview. Department Heads shall be responsible
for notifying the Personnel Specialist as soon as they learn
that one of their employees is leaving. The Personnel
Specialist shall then schedule a time and place for the inter-
view, which shall normally be during the employee's last work
day.
11. 55 Forms and Records. Exit interviews shall be recorded on forms
prescribed by the Personnel Specialist. The record of the
interview shall become a part of the employee's permanent
Personnel File.
11. 56 Follow- Up Letter. The Personnel Specialist shall send a
follow- up letter to the separated employee immediately after
the date of separation. The purpose will be to elicit in-
formation from employees who are afraid or unwilling to dis-
cuss aspects of their employment during the exit interview.
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 33
VOL 40 PAGE945
RULE 12 PERSONNEL RECORDS MANAGEMENT.
SECTION 12. 1 PURPOSE.
The development and maintenance of an effective personnel transaction
procedure and personnel records management system is essential to a
sound personnel program. The primary purpose of these systems and
procedures shall be to:
a) Establish and maintain clear lines of authority for the
processing of personnel transactions and management of
personnel records.
b) Establish and maintain uniform, easily accessible and
complete employment records of all County employees.
c) Establish and maintain clear and efficient procedures for
processing all transactions that affect each employee.
SECTION 12. 2 RESPONSIBILITY AND AUTHORITY.
12. 21 Personnel Specialist. The Personnel Specialist shall:
a) Have overall responsibility for establishing, maintaining
and coordinating personnel transaction and records
management systems and procedures for all County employ-
ees.
b) Establish and maintain a central personnel file to in-
clude all transactions, records and other pertinent
employment information for each County employee.
c) Establish and maintain personnel transaction forms and
procedures.
d) Establish and maintain position complement control
records and procedures.
e) Advise and assist Department Heads on all County
personnel transactions and records management systems and
procedures.
12. 22 Department Heads.
a) Initiate and process personnel transactions affecting
their employees, using forms prescribed by the Personnel
Specialist.
b) Maintain a written record of contacts with employees as
they deem appropriate, or as required by these rules.
Copies of such records shall be forwarded to the
Personnel Specialist for inclusion in the central per-
sonnel file.
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 34
VOL 40 PAGE946
12. 23 Data Processing Unit. The Data Processing Unit shall be
responsible to convert data from personnel transactions to
electronic data processing records. The conversion system
shall be developed by the Data Processing Unit in close coop-
eration with the Personnel Specialist to provide management
with current personnel and position summaries, statistics and
other pertinent data.
12. 24 Employees. All employees shall be responsible for notifying
their supervisor or the Personnel Specialist of any changes
which affect their personal status. Employees shall also
receive a copy of all personnel transactions which affect
their employment or personal status.
RULE 13 EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT.
SECTION 13. 1 PURPOSE.
The purpose of the employee development program shall be to foster
and promote the training and development of employees in order to:
a) Improve the quality of personal services rendered to the
County by employees.
b) Equip employees for career advancement within the County
service.
c) Provide a reservoir of occupational skills necessary to
meet current and future employment needs.
SECTION 13. 2 DEVELOPMENT AND ADMINISTRATION: RESPONSIBILITIES.
13. 21 Personnel Specialist. The Personnel Specialist shall have
overall responsibility for the development, administration and
coordination of the employee development program. In this
capacity, he shall:
a) Assist the Department Heads in development, implementa-
tion and budgeting employee development programs to meet
the current and future needs of their departments, and to
increase employee efficiency.
b) Conduct or coordinate employee development programs to
meet the common needs of all departments.
c) Maintain a file of current information and materials on
job requirements, training opportunities, employee dev-
elopment manuals and other employee development
literature.
d) Maintain a record of all training conducted and ensure
that authorized employee development programs are
properly administered.
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 35
y 1
von 40 FacE947
e) Prepare certificates of recognition for employees who
satisfactorily complete employee development programs,
and ensure that a record is maintained in the employee's
Personnel File.
f) Assure that all employees receive equal consideration for
appropriate training opportunities.
g) Assure that employee Personnel files are updated upon
successful completion of any employee development
activities, to ensure maximum consideration for place-
ments, transfers and promotion.
13. 22 Department Heads. Department Heads shall provide active
leadership in developing the employees under their super-
vision. In this capacity, they shall:
a) Cooperate closely with the Personnel Specialist in
determining the current and future employee development
needs in his department.
b) Participate with the Personnel Specialist in developing
and implementing employee development programs.
c) Attempt to budget sufficient funds to secure needed
career development programs.
d) Assess the effectiveness of completed career development
programs and make recommendations for improvement where
appropriate.
e) Assure that employees are provided with sufficient time
to participate in career development programs.
SECTION 13. 3 EMPLOYEE ORIENTATION .
13. 31 Orientation Procedure: Responsibilities.
a) Personnel Specialist. During the first week, all new
employees will meet with the Personnel Specialist or his
designee. The Personnel Specialist shall advise
employees on all general conditions of employment, such
as: Personnel Rules, fringe benefits, hours of work,
pay, and their privileges and responsibilities. Each
employee shall also receive a copy of the employee hand-
book and any other pertinent literature concerning his
employment, and shall be informed of the existence of
these written Personnel Rules and be instructed to obtain
a copy from his/ her Department Head and to read them.
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 36
1 t
va 40 PAGE9481
b) Supervisor. The supervisor shall orient each new
employee to the conditions related to his job and work
site. Such orientation shall include introductions to
fellow workers, Personnel Rules, work standards, safety
regulations, break periods, supplies, etc. The super-
visor shall assure that all pertinent items on the
orientation checklist are covered.
c) Employee. The employee is responsible for reading and
abiding by all written County Personnel Rules, as well as
all other rules, regulations and standards brought to
his/ her attention.
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 37
INDEX
v3E 40 FACE949
Appointments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Benefits and Practices:
Holidays . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Insurance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Retirement
Subsistence Allowance
Travel Expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Board . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Class . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Class Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Classes of Positions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Class Title . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Classification Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Approval to Fill Vacant Position . . . . . . . . .
Creation of New Class Description . . . . . . . .
Maintenance of . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Purpose and Nature of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Requirements for Amendment . . . . . . . . . .
Compensatory Time . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Definitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Demotions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Discipline . . . . . . . . . . . .
Appeal of Disciplinary Action . . . . . . . .
Dismissals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Forms of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Written Notices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dismissals
During Trial Service . . . . . . . . . . .
Permanent Employees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Employee Development . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Orientation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Purpose
Responsibilities .
Evaluation ( See Performance Evaluations)
Page
14
22
23
24
22
22
2
1
1, 4
1
1
3
5
5
4
3
5
9
1
10, 21
20
21
21
20
21
21
21
35
36
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 38
I r r
VOL 40 PACE950
32
30
31
31
30
31
31
23
23
24
7
17
1
23
12
28
7, 32
1
24
24
24
24
28
29
29
28
29
28
29
29
29
23
23
23
1
11
22
Exchange Time
Exit Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grievance Procedure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
County Liability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Extension of Time Limits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Policy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prohibited Practices . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Time Limits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Health and Welfare . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Insurance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Retirement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Holiday Pay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hours of Work . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Immediate Family . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Insurance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Job Announcements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jury Duty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Layoff . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lead Worker . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Leaves of Absence
Accumulation While on Leave
Authorization For . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Leave Computation . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Other, with Pay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Disaster Leave . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Educational Leave . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jury Duty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Official Business . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Witness Duty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Other, Without Pay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Educational Leave . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Special Leave . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Liability, Legal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Employee Liability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Employee Responsibilities . . . . . . . . . . . .
Limited Part- Time Employee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Merit Step/ Pay Increases . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mileage Allowance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 39
VOL 40 PAGE951
Military Leave . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
With Pay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
Without Pay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
Overtime . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Pay Changes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Compensation During Temporary Assignment . . . . . . . 10
Completion of Trial Service Period . . . . . . . . . 10
Cost of Living Increases . . . . . . . . 9
Demotion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Merit Step/ Pay Increases . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Pay Surveys . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Promotion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Reclassifications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Pay Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Administration of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Development of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Purpose . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Pay Range . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Pay Rates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Compensatory Time Off . . . . . . . . . 8
Entrance Pay Rate . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Exceptions to Overtime and Compensatory Time . . . 9
Exchange Time . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Holiday Pay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Overtime . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Salary Increases . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Seniority and Layoff . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Termination Pay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Performance Evaluations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Appeal Procedure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Department Heads . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Periods of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Purpose 14
Responsibility for 16
Special Evaluations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Unsatisfactory Evaluation . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Permanent Full- Time Employee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Permanent Part- Time Employee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Personnel Records Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Purpose 34
Responsibility and Authority 34
Personnel Rules
Adoption, Amendment and Administration of . . . . 3
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 40
a=
VOL 40 PACE952
Application of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Purpose . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Personnel Specialist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Public Vehicles, Use of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Reclassifications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Recruitment Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Application Forms . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Appointments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Initial Screening . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Job Announcements 12
Rejection of Applications 12
Selection Committee . . . . . . . 13
Selection Program . . . . 13
Recruitment and Selection Policy . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Reprimands . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Responsibilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
of Board of Commissioners . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
of all County Employees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
of Personnel Specialist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4, 20
of Supervisors and Department Heads . . . . . . . . . 20
Rules ( See Work Rules)
Safety . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19, 22
Accident Reporting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Employee Responsibilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Separation from County Service
Exit Interview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Layoff . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Reassignment of Duties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Rehiring of Layoffs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Resignations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Separation Bonus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Sick Leave . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
With Pay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Without Pay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Suspension . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Temporary Full- Time Employee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Temporary Part- Time Employee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Trial Service . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Evaluation During . . . . . . . . 14
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 41
VOL
Evaluators' Responsibility . . . . . . . . . . . .
Extension of Service . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Length of Service . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Transportation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Travel Expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vacation Leave . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
40 PACE953
14
14
14
22
22
24, 25
Work Rules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
County Property . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Courtesy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
General Employee Conduct . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hours of Work . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lunch Period . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Personal Business . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Purpose . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Records . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Relatives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Reporting Time . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rest Periods . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Safety . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
PERSONNEL RULES, PAGE 42
17
19
19
19
17
18
19
18
17
19
20