9' 7- 09
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES C jT1OREGON
97 1-t
An Ordinance Amending Section 18.128.040 ( 0) * §,
of Title 18 of the Deschutes County Code, As * `' CI Gt °'
Amended, and Declaring an Emergency.
f 5G,
ORDINANCE NO. 97- 022
WHEREAS, J Bar J Boys Ranch has applied for a text amendmentto Section 18.128.040(0) of
Title 18 to establish certain minimum lot sizes for private secondary schools;
WHEREAS, the Deschutes County Planning Commission recommended approval of the proposed
text amendment;
WHEREAS, a hearingwasheld, afternoticegivenin accordancewith law, beforethe Boardof
County Commissioners;
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON,
ORDAINS as follows:
Section 1. Amendment. Section 18.128.040(0) of Title 18 is amendedas setforth in Exhibit A
attachedheretoandincorporatedherein, with newlanguagesetoutunderlined, andlanguageto bedeletedin
strike - out.
Section 2. Severability. The provisions of this ordinance are severable. If any section,
sentence, clauseor phraseof this ordinance is adjudgedto be invalid by a court of competentjurisdiction,
that decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance.
Section 3. Codification. County Legal Counselshall have the authority to format the
provisions contained herein in a manner that will integrate them into the County Code consistent with the
Deschutes County Form and Style Manual for Board Documents. Such codification shall include the
authority to make such changes, to make changesin numbering systems and to make such numbering
changes consistent with interrelated code sections. In addition, as part of codification of these ordinances,
County Legal Counselmay insert appropriatelegislative history reference. Any legislative history
referencesincluded herein are not adoptedas part of the substanceof this ordinance, but are included for
administrative convenience and as a reference. They may be changedto correct errors and to conform to
proper style without action of the Board of County Commissioners.
Section 4. Repeal of Ordinances as Affecting Existing Liabilities. The repeal, express or
implied, of anyordinance, ordinanceprovision, codesection, oranymaporanylineonamapincorporated
thereinbyreference, bythisamendingordinanceshallnotreleaseorextinguishanyduty, condition, penalty,
PAGE 1 - ORDINANCE NO. 97- 022 ( 03/ 19/ 97)
M CRCFI ED
MAR2,  1997
ZR741997
HED
015E- 2349
forfeiture, or liability previously incurred or that may hereafterbe incurred under such ordinance, unless a
provision of this amending ordinance shall so expressly provide, and such ordinance repealed shall be treated
asstill remaining in force for the purposeof sustainingany proper action or prosecution for the enforcement
of such duty, condition, penalty, forfeiture, or liability, and for the purposeof authorizing the prosecution,
conviction and punishment of the person or persons who previously violated the repealed ordinance.
Section 5. Emergency. This ordinance being necessaryfor the immediate preservation of the
public peace, health and safety, an emergencyis declared to exist, and this ordinance takes effect on its
passage.
DATED this _/ 63 day of 1997.
ATTEST:
Recording Secretary
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
Old' DESCHUTES COUNTY, () REGON
EN, Chair
L. NIPPER,
Al A L. SWEARINGEN, Commissioner
PAGE 2 - ORDINANCE NO. 97- 022 ( 03/ 19/ 97)
0156- 2x50
EX MIT A
O. Schools.
1. Nursery schools shall provide and
maintain at least 100 square feet of outdoor play
area per child. A sight -obscuring fence at least
four feet but not more than six feet high shall
separatethe play areafrom adjoining lots.
provide a basie. 840 area e8fisistent with
3- 2. Secondary schools shall provide a
ba&ie site area of 10 acres plus one additional acre
for each 100 pupils of predicted ultimate
enrollment.
3. Notwithstanding subsection 2, private
academic secondary schools with an enrollment
of fewer than 50 students shall provide a
minimum site area of one acre for every 10
students of predicted ultimate enrollment, with a
minimum site area of not less than 2 acres.
Chapter 18. 128 1 ( 03/ 19/ 97)