BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES
REVIEWED
l)
LEGAL COUNSEL
OREGON: -
An Ordinance Amending Chapter * 0108 06609. 08, Discharge of Firearms,
of the Deschutes County Code
and Declaring an, E{mergency.
92- 00469
ORDINANCE NO. 91- 048
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON,
ORDAINS as follows:
Section 1. Chapter 9. 08, Discharge of Firearms, Deschutes
County Code is amended to read as set forth in Exhibit " A" attached
hereto and by this reference incorporated herein.
Section 2. This Ordinance being necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health and safety, an emergency
is declared to exist, and this Ordinance takes effect on its
passage.
DATED this 11th day of December, 1991.
t:/ 6
ecording Secretary
BOARD OF C UNTY COMMISSIONERS
OF DESC WT S COUNTY, OREGON
SS• 1 0 . -
0L J ws4 1.. t_ .
EP, Commisstoner
DICK MAUDLIN, Chairman
KVNCHED
i 1992
C
1v11CRptME' 1 - ORDINANCE NO. 91- 048 ( 12/ 11/ 91)
0108 0661
EXHIBIT A
9. 08. 040 Restricted Areas
A. A restricted area may be formed in the following areas,
subject to petition and signature requirements set forth in Section
9. 08. 050 of this Chapter, provided that the properties within a
single proposed district are contiguous:
1) Recorded subdivisions or town plats; or
2) Individual lots outside of recorded subdivisions or town
plats, where such lots are contiguous to a subdivision or
town plat in an existing or proposed restricted area or
are contiguous to other lots included within an existing
or proposed restricted area, or
3) Any combination thereof;
B. No subdivision or town plat shall be eligible for such
designation unless 60 percent of the registered voters within such
subdivision or combination of subdivisions sign the petition
proposing such district.
C. No individual lot not covered by a town plat or recorded
subdivision plat shall be eligible for inclusion in a proposed
restricted area unless the owner of such lot signs a petition
requesting such designation. Determination of ownership shall be
made using the most recent property tax assessment roll. Recent
purchasers must provide a certified copy of a deed.
D. Except as set forth in subsection B of this section, no
individual lots owned by a political subdivision of the State of
Oregon or special district shall be eligible for inclusion in a
proposed restricted area unless such governmental entity or quasi -
governmental entity shall have passed an ordinance consistent with
the provisions of this Chapter restricting the discharge of
firearms on such property.
E. Any area eligible to be included in a restricted area
under this Section may annex onto an existing firearms district by
following the formation procedures set forth in this Chapter.
9. 08. 050 Petitions - Requirements
A. A proposal for formation of a restricted area shall be made by
petition. The petition, which may consist of a single instrument
or separate counterparts, shall contain the following:
1. A description of the boundaries of the proposed
restricted area;
2 - ORDINANCE NO. 91- 048 ( 12/ 11/ 91)
0108 0662
2. A statement that the area is proposed to be restricted
pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter;
3. At least one, and as many as three, chief petitioners,
setting forth their names and mailing addresses;
4. The signatures of not less than sixty ( 60) percent of the
registered voters of subdivisions included within the proposed
restricted area;
5. The signature of each owner, or authorized representative
thereof, of any individual lot outside of a recorded subdivision
plat or town plat entitled to be included in a proposed restricted
area; and
6. A certified true copy of any ordinance of a municipal
corporation or special district with property included within the
proposed boundaries designating the area to be a restricted area
consistent with the provisions of this Chapter.
B. Each person signing a petition shall, besides signing the
petition, also print his name after his signature and shall add
after his signature his place of residence, giving street and
number or a designation sufficient to enable the place or residence
to be readily ascertained.
C. After a petition has been offered for filing a person may not
withdraw his name therefrom.
3 - ORDINANCE NO. 91- 048 ( 12/ 11/ 91)