REVIEWED
DESCHUTES COUNTY OFFICIAL RECORDS
0+rpt} + {
L
NANCY BLANKENSHIP,  COUNTY CLERK yJ     "
LEGACOUNSEL COMMISSIONERS'  JOURNAL
07/01/201410:52'55AM
II
2 1 II3III I UIIIIIIIIIIUIIU
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
An Ordinance Adding and Amending Deschutes
County Code Chapters 18. 116 and 18. 124 to Include   *  ORDINANCE NO. 2014- 017
Traffic StudyRequirementsandUpdateCross-
references.
WHEREAS, DeschutesCounty Planning Division staff requesteda text amendmentto Deschutes
County Code (" DCC") 17.16.115, 18.116.310, and 18.124.080, to move traffic study requirements from 17.16
Approval of Subdivision Tentative Plans and Master Development Plans to 1.8.116 (SupplementaryProvisions),
establishing18.116.310 (Traffic Study Requirements) and updating 18.124 (Site Plan Review) referenceto
traffic studies; the reasonis many land useapplicationsthat arenot for a subdivisionor masterplan canoften
meet threshold for a traffic study; and
WHEREAS, after notice was given in accordance with applicable law, a public hearing was held on
January9, 2014, beforetheDeschutesCountyPlanningCommissionand, on January9, 2014, thePlanning
Commission recommended approval of the text amendment; and
WHEREAS, the Board of County Commissionersconsideredthis matter after a duly noticedpublic
hearing on June 4,  2014,  and concluded that the proposed changes are consistent with the County' s
Comprehensive Plan and that the public will benefit from changes to the land use regulations; now therefore,
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON, ORDAINS
as follows:
Section 1.   ADDING.   DCC 18. 116. 310 is added as in Exhibit " A," attached and incorporated by
reference herein.
Section 2.   AMENDMENT. DCC 18. 124. 080 is amended to read as described in Exhibit" B", attached
and incorporated by reference herein.
PAGE 1 OF 2- ORDINANCE NO. 2014- 017
l
Section 4.  FINDINGS.   The Board adopts as its findings in support of this decision, Exhibit " C"
attachedand incorporated by reference herein.
Dated this ZS of 2014 BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
ti
TAMMY ALPI6, Chair
ANTHONY DeBONE, Vice Chair
ATTEST:
P- TiatA,( 1— r—
Recording Secretary ALAN UNGER, Commissioner
14-
Date of 1
s`
Reading:   ` t day of   -       2014.
Date of 2°
a
Reading: 0/ day of     (, Ciyc- C_—   , 2014.
Record of Adoption Vote:
Commissioner Yes No Abstained Excused
Tammy Baney
Anthony DeBone
Alan Unger c
Effective date: v.       day of 2014.
PAGE 2 OF 2- ORDINANCE NO. 2014- 017
18. 116. 310 Traffic Impact Studies
A.  For purposesof DCC 18.116.310, the transportation system includes public and private roads,
intersections, sidewalks, bike facilities, trails, and transit systems.
B.  The applicantshall meetwith County staff in a pre-applicationconferenceto discussstudy
requirements, then generate the traffic study and submit it concurrently with the land use
application.
C.  Guidelines for Traffic Impact Studies
1.   All traffic impact studies shall be stamped and signed by the registered professional
engineer who is licensed in the State of Oregon and is otherwise qualified to prepare
traffic studies.
2.   TheCountyEngineershalldeterminewhenthereporthassatisfiedall therequirementsof
the development' s impact analysis. Incomplete reports shall be returned for completion.
3.   The following vehicletrip generationthresholdsshall determinethe level and scopeof
transportation analysis required for a new or expanded development.
a.   No Report is required if there are fewer than 50 trips per day generated during a
weekday.
b.  Site Traffic Report ( STR):  If the development or change in use will cause the site to
generate50-200 daily trip ends, and less than 20 peakhour trips, a Site Traffic Report
may be required at the discretion of the County Engineer.
c.   Traffic Impact Analysis ( TIA):  If the development or change in use will generate
more than 200 trip ends and 20 or more peak hour trips, then a Traffic Impact
Analysis( TIA) shall be required.
4.   The peak hour shall be the highest continuous hour of traffic measured between 4:00 and
6:00 PM, unless site trip generation characteristics warrant consideration of alternative
periods as determined by the County Engineer. (An example would be a use with a high
7: 00 and 9: 00 AM peak and a low PM peak such as a school.)
D.  Traffic Study Area
1.  After consultingwith other affectedjurisdictions, the County Engineershall determine
the impact analysis area.
2.   The impact analysis study area shall include, at a minimum:
a.   All site accesspoints to the public roadway system via either a driveway or private
roadway;
b.  Nearest intersecting collector or arterial roads to the developmentthat would
experience an increase of 25 additional peak hour trips;
c.   Any othercollectoror arterialintersectionrequestedby staff.
E.  Study Time Frames
The analysis shall include the following time frames:
1.   Existing conditions ( including approved, but not yet built developments as identified by
the County Engineer);
2.   Completion year of each significant phase of the development;
3.   Five year forecast after build out for each phase of development or the final phase of
development.
4.   Generators of large volumes of traffic (> 5, 000 daily and > 500 peak hour trips), zone
changes, and any destination resort development will also require an analysis of traffic
conditions in a twenty-year horizon.
F.  Minimum Study Requirements for a Site Traffic Report( STR)
The minimum study requirements for a Site Traffic Report are:
1.   A vicinity map showing the location of the project in relation to the transportation system
of the area;
Exhibit A of Ordinance 2014- 017 1
2.   Trip generationforecastusing data from the most recent edition of the Institute of
TransportationEngineers (ITE) Trip GenerationManualunlessmoreappropriatedatais
available and approved by the County Engineer;
3.   Trip distribution and assignment;
4.   Safetyanalysisof thesiteaccesses, includingsightdistanceandoperationcharacteristics;
5.  Description of the proposed development and surrounding land uses;
G.  Minimum StudyRequirementsfor a Traffic ImpactAnalysis(TIA)
Theminimumstudyrequirementsfor a Traffic ImpactReportare:
1.   A vicinity map showing the location of the project in relation to the transportation system
of the area;
2.   All of the elements of a ST. R;
3.   Traffic signal progression analysis and interconnection if a new signal is proposed;
4.   A response in the final report to any supplemental study issues identified by other
affected jurisdictions;
5.  Appropriatetraffic calmingtechniquesif theprojectdistributestrips to aresidentiallocal
road and is projected to increase the volumes on that road to a volume greater than 1,000
ADT;
6.  Trip generationforecastsusing data from the most recent edition of the Institute of
Transportation Engineers ( ITE) Trip Generation Manual unless the County Engineer
approves an alternate data source;
7.   Trip distribution assumptionsare basedon historical data, existing and future travel
characteristics, and capacity constraints;
8.   A complete description and drawing of the proposed development.
9.   Existing traffic volumes;
10. Existing and future levelsof service, averagevehicledelayandvolume /capacityratios
V/ C) for all intersections within the study area for conditions with and without the
proposed project;
11. Forecast traffic volumes with and without the development;
13. Safetyanalysisof thesiteaccesses, includesightdistanceandoperationcharacteristics;
14. Analysis of right and left turn lane warrants ( Oregon Department of Transportation
ODOT) standards);
15. Analysis of parking needsof the proposeddevelopment;
16. When needed, warrant analysis for traffic control devices;
17. Findings and conclusions including a recommendation of suggested potential mitigation
for off- site impacts and an evaluation of the effectiveness of those solutions.
H.  Operation And Safety Standards.
The minimum operational and safety standardsfor use on DeschutesCounty' s system are:
1.   The minimum level of service for intersections and roads, during the P.M. Peak Hour,
shall be LOS  " D"  as determined by the most current published version of the
Transportation ResearchBoard' s Highway Capacity Manual.
2.   For state highway intersections, the performance standard shall be determined by the
Oregon Highway Plan or ODOT- approved alternative standardor target.
3.   The minimum sight distance for driveways and intersections is defined in AASHTO' s
GEOMETRIC DESIGN OF HIGHWAYS AND STREETS" and the AASHTO" Design
Guidelines for Very- Low Volume Local Roads(< 400 ADT)".
I.   Mitigation
1.   The applicant shall be responsible to mitigate any safety or capacity problems that are
causedby their proposed development.
2.   At the County Engineer' s discretion, if there are pre-existing safety deficiencies and/or
capacity failures at relevant intersections or road frontages within the impact analysis
Exhibit A of Ordinance 2014- 017 2
p
area, then no additional development shall be allowed until a solution that accounts for
the proposed project' s additional impacts is funded or built.
Ord. 2014- 017)
Exhibit A of Ordinance 2014- 017 3
18. 124. 080.   Other Conditions.
ThePlanningDirectororHearingsBodymayrequirethefollowingin additiontotheminimumstandardsof
DCC Title 18 as a condition for site plan approval.
A.  An increase in the required yards.
B.  Additional off- street parking.
C.  Screeningof theproposeduseby a fenceor landscapingor combinationthereof
D.  Limitations on the size,type, location, orientation andnumber of lights.
E.  Limitations on the number and location of curb cuts.
F.  Dedication of land for the creation or enlargement of streetswhere the existing street systemwill be
impactedbyor isinadequatetohandletheadditionalburdencausedbytheproposeduse.
G.  Improvement,  including but not limited to paving,  curbing,  installation of traffic signals and
constructingsidewalksor thestreetsystemthatservestheproposedusewheretheexistingstreetsystem
will be burdened by the proposed use.
H.  Improvement or enlargement of utilities serving the proposed use where the existing utilities system will
beburdenedby theproposeduse.  Improvementsmay include, but shallnotbelimitedto, extensionof
utility facilitiesto servetheproposeduseandinstallationof fire hydrants.
I.   Landscaping of the site.
J.   Traffic Impact Study as identified in Title 17.16.115 18.116.310
K.  Anyotherlimitationsorconditionsthatareconsiderednecessaryto achievethepurposesof DCCTitle
18.
Ord. 2014. 001§ 1; Ord. 2006- 005 § 1, 2006; Ord. 95- 075 § I, 1995; Ord. 93- 043 § 22C, 1993)
Exhibit B of Ordinance 2014- 017 1
DES, f,,
Community Development Department
emu„' Planning Division Building Safety Division Environmental Health Division
1
r
E''    .
e 1E E agr E
y110 744,1    « A'. aafrA M° Eta'
r1  ,
ire
Oregon 97701- 1925117 NW Lafayette Avenue Bend Orey
541) 388- 6575 FAX ( 541) 385- 1764
http:// www. co. deschutes. or. us/ cdd/
PROPOSED FINDINGS
FILE NUMBER:     BOCC Ordinance 2014- 001 ( TA- 13- 2)
APPLICANT: Peter Russell
Deschutes County Community Development Department
P. O. Box 6005
117 NW Lafayette
Bend, OR 97708- 6005
PROPERTY OWNERS:   N/ A
REQUEST:    Relocate traffic study requirements from Deschutes County Code
DCC)  Chapter 17. 16,  Subdivisions and Master Plans,  to DCC
Chapter 18. 116,  Supplemental Provisions,  creating a new section
DCC 18. 116. 310 while deleting DCC 17. 16. 115;   change the
performance standard for new County facilities from Level of Service
LOS) C to LOS D, matching the LOS requirement for existing County
roads.
STAFF CONTACT: Peter Russell, Senior Transportation Planner
I. APPLICABLE CRITERIA:
Title 22, Deschutes County Development Procedures Ordinance
Title 23, Deschutes County Comprehensive Plan
Deschutes County Transportation System Plan (Section 3.7 of Comprehensive Plan)
Statewide Planning Goals
Transportation Planning Rule (Oregon Administrative Rule 660-012)
II. BASIC FINDINGS:
A. PROPOSAL:  The applicant requests approval of moving the traffic study requirements
now found in DCC 17. 16. 115 and shifting them to DCC 18. 116 and creating a Section
18. 116. 310,  Traffic Study Requirements.   The cross- references in DCC 18. 124. 080
Quality Services Performed with Pride
would be modified from DCC 17. 16. 115 to DCC 18.116. 310 and DCC 17. 16. 115 would
also add a cross- reference to the new DCC 18. 116. 310.  The reason for the change is
the County often requires traffic studies for land uses that are not subdivisions or master
plans,  yet the requirements for traffic studies are now located in a section of the
development code that pertains solely to those two development proposals.   A more
logical location would be DCC 18. 116 which is not land use zone specific and already
includes many general transportation items such as standards for Class I and II road
projects, clear zones, off- street parking, and bicycle parking.
Selected portions of the traffic studies requirements have also been updated to reflect
changes in best practices and/ or terminology to provide further clarity.  Examples include
replacingreferencesto a trafficengineerto RegisteredProfessionalEngineer; specifying
the time limits of the p.m. peak hour reference; and standardizing the County's Level of
Service ( LOS) standard to D for all roadways instead of C for new County roads and D
for existing County facilities.
III.       CONCLUSIONARY FINDINGS:
A.       CHAPTER 22. 12, LEGISLATIVE PROCEDURES
1. Section 22. 12. 010.
Hearing Required
FINDING:  The Board finds this criterion has been met as public hearings were held before
the PlanningCommissionon Jan. 9, 2014, and the Boardof CountyCommissionerson June
4, 2014.
2. Section 22. 12. 020, Notice
Notice
A.  Published Notice
1.  Notice of a legislative change shall be published in a newspaper of
general circulation in the county at least 10 days prior to each public
hearing.
2. The notice shall state the time and place of the hearing and contain a
statement describing the general subject matter of the ordinance under
consideration.
FINDING:   The Board finds this criterion has been met as notice was published in the Bend
Bulletin newspaper and described the proposal.
B.  Posted Notice.  Notice shall be posted at the discretion of the Planning
Director and where necessary to comply with ORS 203. 045.
FINDING:   The Board finds this criterion has been met as notice was posted in the bulletin
board in the lobby of the Deschutes County Community Development Department,  117 NW
Lafayette, Bend.
Exhibit C of Ordinance 2014- 017 Page 2
C.  Individual notice.   Individual notice to property owners, as defined in
DCC 22. 08. 010( A), shall be provided at the discretion of the Planning
Director, except as required by ORS 215. 503.
FINDING:  Given the land use in question does not apply to any specific property, no individual
notices were sent.  The Board finds this criterion has been met.
D.  Media notice.   Copies of the notice of hearing shall be transmitted to
other newspapers published in Deschutes County.
FINDING:    Notice was provided to the County public information official for wider media
distribution.  The Board finds this criterion has been met.
3. Section 22. 12. 030 Initiation of Legislative Changes.
A legislative change may be initiated by application of individuals upon
payment of required fees as well as by the Board of County
Commissioners.
FINDING:   The application was initiated by the Deschutes County Planning Division, which
received a fee waiver.  The Board finds this criterion has been met.
4. Section 22. 12. 040. Hearings Body
A.  The following shall serve as hearings or review body for legislative
changes in this order:
1.  The Planning Commission.
2. The Board of County Commissioners.
FINDING:  The Board finds this criterion has been met as the order of public hearings has been
followed.
B.  Any legislative change initiated by the Board of County
Commissioners shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission prior to
action being taken by the Board of Commissioners.
FINDING:   The Board find this criterion has been met as the Planning Commission public
hearing preceded the Board public hearing.
5. Section 22. 12. 050 Final Decision
All legislative changes shall be adopted by ordinance
FINDING:  TA- 13-2 is implemented by Ordinance 2014- 001; the Board finds this criterion has
been met.
B.       CHAPTER 23, DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
1. Chapter 3, Rural Growth Management, Section 3. 6 Public Facilities and Services
Goal 1, Support the orderly, efficient and cost- effective siting of rural public
facilities and services.
Exhibit C of Ordinance 2014- 017 Page 3
FINDING:   The Board finds this criterion has been met as the amended traffic study
requirement sets the same Level of Service ( LOS) standard for both new and existing facilities,
ensuringfutureroadsandintersectionsareconsistentwitheachother.  ThepreviousLOSC
standard for future facilities would have resulted in the potential overbuilding of County road
segments and/ or intersections.  By having LOS D as the performance standard for all existing
and future County road segments and intersections, the resulting road network will be orderly
and cost- effective.
2.       Chapter 4, Urban Growth Management, Section 4. 2 Urbanization Policies
Goal 4, To build a strong and thriving regional economy by coordinating
public investments, policies and regulations to support regional and state
economic development objectives in Central Oregon.
FINDING:  The Board finds this criterion has been met as the text amendment will provide a
consistent performance standard for County roads.  The traffic study requirements will ensure
economic development does not adversely affect the network of County roads and State
highways, but also will not result in the oversizing of adversely affected facilities.
3. Deschutes County Transportation System Plan
Goal 1,  Coordination and Implementation,  Policy 1. 1c,  Requirement of
conditions of approval on developments and transportation projects that
have a significant effect on the County' s transportation system.
FINDING:   The Board finds this criterion is met as the text amendment still defines a LOS
benchmark for the County's road system which in turn is used to determine whether a
development has a significant effect or not.
4. Deschutes County Transportation System Plan ( con' t)
Goal 4, Arterial and Collector Road Plan,  Policy 4. 6,  Deschutes County
shall manage the development process to obtain adequate street right- of-
way and improvements commensurate with the level and impact of
development.   New development shall provide traffic impact analysis to
assess those impacts and to help determine transportation system needs...
FINDING:  The thresholds for traffic analysis set in County code will remain unchanged so the
Board finds this criterion has been met.
5. Deschutes County Transportation System Plan ( con' t)
Goal 9, Performance Standards, Maintain a Level of Service " D" or better
during the peak hour throughout the County arterial and collector road
system over the next 20 years.
FINDING:   The text amendment maintains the County Code requirement of a LOS D as the
performance standard for the County' s arterial and collector system.   The Board finds this
criterion has been met.
C.       STATEWIDE PLANNING GOALS
1. Goal 1, Citizen Involvement
Exhibit C of Ordinance 2014- 017 Page 4
FINDING:  The text amendment included workshops before both Deschutes County Planning
Commission ( PC) and the Board of County Commissioners ( Board).  The text amendment also
included publically noticed public hearings before the PC and Board.   The Board finds this
criterion is met.
2. Goal 2, Land Use Planning
FINDING:   Oregon Revised Statute ( ORS) 197. 610 allows local governments to initiate post
acknowledgement plan amendments or changes to land use regulations.  The County on Dec.
4, 2013, provided the Department of Land Conservation and Development ( DLCD) with the
required notice 35 days prior to the first evidentiary hearing, which will be on Jan. 9, 2014.   The
notice included the proposed changes with additions indicated by underlined text and text to be
eliminated indicated by strikethrough text.  The text amendment was processed via the County' s
development code procedures set for in Title 22, Chapter 22. 12 for legislative amendments.
The Board finds this criterion has been met.
3. Goal 3, Agricultural Lands
FINDING:  The text amendment is not proposing any changes to land use designations, so the
Board finds this criterion has either been met or is not applicable.
4. Goal 4, Forest Lands
FINDING:  The text amendment is not proposing any changes to land use designations, so the
Board finds this criterion has either been met or is not applicable.
5. Goal 5, Natural Resources, Scenic and Historic Areas, and Open Spaces
FINDING:  The text amendment is neither proposing any changes to land use designations nor
proposing roads through previously designated Goal 5 resources.  Therefore, the Board finds
this criterion has either been met or is not applicable.
6. Goal 6, Air, Water and Land Resource Quality
FINDING:  No development or land use changes are being proposed that impact air, water, or
land resource qualities.   Deschutes County is not under any federal violations of air quality,
which often leads to traffic restrictions.  Other areas of the County' s code deal with protecting
air, water, and land remain in full force and effect.  The Board finds this criterion has either been
met or is not applicable.
7. Goal 7, Natural Hazards
FINDING:  The text amendment will ensure there is adequate capacity on the County and State
transportation system,  allowing roads and highways to be used as evacuation routes and
ingress and egress for emergency vehicles.  The Board finds this criterion has either been met
or is not applicable.
8. Goal 8, Recreational Needs
FINDING:  The text amendment will ensure there is adequate capacity on the County and State
transportation system, allowing roads and highways to be used to access recreational sites
such as Mount Bachelor, the Cascade lakes, and public lands.  The Board finds this criterion
has either been met or is not applicable.
Exhibit C of Ordinance 2014- 017 Page 5
9. Goal 9, Economic Development
FINDING:  A functioning transportation system is a basic need for economic development.  The
text amendment will continue to provide clear and objective criteria for how County roads and
State highways need to operate and that a development must not result in degradation of the
transportation system.    Mitigation is a required component in the County' s traffic analysis
section.  Therefore, the Board finds this criterion has been met.
10.      Goal 10, Housing
FINDING:   A functioning transportation system provides access to subdivisions and rural
homesteads.  This goal pertains to urban or urbanizable lands.  The proposed text amendment
will not result in any changes or elimination of residentially zoned lands in the County.   The
Board finds this criterion has either been met or is not applicable.
11.      Goal 11, Public Facilities and Services
FINDING:   While roads are public,  this goal pertains more to water and sewer services,
whereas transportation is treated explicitly under Goal 12.    The County has an adopted
Transportation System Plan ( TSP) and the traffic study requirements ensure any development
will be consistent with the TSP and its plans for public roads and highways.  The Board finds
this criterion has either been met or is not applicable.
12.      Goal 12, Transportation
FINDING:   Deschutes County has an adopted and acknowledged TSP which will ensure an
orderly and efficient transition between rural and urban lands.  The TSP at Table 5. 3. T1 lists all
road and highway improvements for 2010- 2030.  The timeline for construction for each priority
project is High ( 0- 5 years), Medium ( 6- 11 years) and Low ( 11- 20 years).  There are 94 projects
overall, including roads, highways, bridges, sidewalks, etc.  Of the 94 projects, 53 are County
roads only.
The current development code at DCC 17. 16. 115( H) sets a LOS D for existing County road
segments and intersections. For new roads or intersections the current development code sets
a performance standard of LOS C.   The code defers to the Oregon Highway Plan  ( OHP)
mobility standards for state highways and intersections with state highways.  Thus the proposed
text amendment would have no effect on projects on or intersecting with State highways.
Of the 53 County road projects listed in the TSP' s Table 5.3.T1, 47 are on existing roads or
intersections and thus would not be affected by the proposed text amendment as their mobility
standard would remain at LOS D.
TSP Table 5. 3. T1 lists six projects as new roads.  Of these half- dozen future improvements, five
are Low priority and one is a High priority.   These six under the proposed plan amendment
would have their LOS standard changed from LOS C to LOS D.   There is no funding in the
current adopted Capital Improvements Project ( CIP) list for any of these six projects.   The
County assumes these roads will be built as development occurs and currently there are no
land use applications in process or anticipated that would result in these improvements being
constructed.  In other words, there is no imminent effect of making LOS D the standard for all
County roads and intersections, whether they exist or are planned.
The Board finds this criterion has been met.
Exhibit C of Ordinance 2014- 017 Page 6
13.      Goal 13, Energy Conservation
FINDING:   This plan amendment does not affect the County' s regulation of solar setbacks,
siting of small- scale windmills, land use or density, etc.   The LOS will remain the same on
existing roadways so levels of allowed traffic volumes and delays at intersections would remain
the same.  Typically, rural roads do not experience the wasteful stop and go traffic patterns that
urban facilities endure.  The Board finds this criterion has been met.
14.      Goal 14, Urbanization
FINDING:  No land use plan designations, zoning designations, or map changes will result from
this plan amendment.  The County TSP does not apply within any Urban Growth Boundaries
UGB).  The Board finds this criterion is met.
15.      Goals 15- 19
FINDING:   The Board finds these criteria do not apply as the County lacks these lands
Willamette Greenway, estuaries, coasts, beaches, etc).
D. TRANSPORTATION PLANNING RULE ( OAR 660- 012)
Plan and Land Use Regulation Amendments 660- 012- 0060
1) If an amendment to a functional plan, an acknowledged plan, or a land
use regulation  ( including a zoning map)  would significantly affect an
existing or planned transportation facility, then the local government must
put in place measures a provided in section ( 2) of this rule, unless the
amendment is allowed under section ( 3), ( 9), or ( 10) of this rule.  A plan or
land use regulation amendment significantly affects a transportation
facility if it would:
a)  Change the functional classification system; or
FINDING:    The proposed amendment will not result in any changes in the functional
classification system.  The Board finds this criterion has been met.
b) Change standards implementing functional classification system: or
FINDING:  The proposed amendment will change the mobility standard for new County facilities
from LOS C to LOS D.  The performance standard for new State highways and existing County
facilities will remain the same.  The Board finds this criterion has been met.
c)  Result in any of the effects listed in paragraphs ( A) through ( C) of this
subsection based on projected conditions measured at the end of the
planning period identified in adopted TSP...
A) Types or levels of travel or access that are inconsistent with the
functional classification of an existing or planned transportation
facility;
FINDING:   The proposed amendment will not change the mix of vehicles on County roads or
State highways nor will it change the volumes of traffic on the County and State system.  The
Exhibit C of Ordinance 2014- 017 Page 7
County's and State's access managementrules set forth in DCC 17.48.090 and the Oregon
HighwayPlan (OHP) remainunchanged.  The Boardfindsthis criterionhas beenmet.
B)   Degrade the performance of an existing or planned
transportation facility such that it would not meet the performance
standards identified in the TSP or comprehensive plan; or
FINDING:    The proposed amendment will not degrade the performance of an existing
transportation facility;  it will change the performance standard for planned transportation
facilities.  However, changing the standard is not degrading the standard; it is merely resetting
the standard.  Additionally, changing performance standards is allowed under OAR 660-012-
0060( 2)( c). The Board finds this criterion has been satisfied.
C)   Degrade the performance of an existing or planned
transportation that is otherwise projected to not meet the
performance standards identified in the TSP or comprehensive plan.
FINDING:  The proposed amendment will not further degrade the performance of an existing
transportation facility.  All transportation facilities in the adopted TSP that were projected to fail
over the 20-year life of the plan also have planned improvements in Table 5.3.T1 to mitigate
those failures.  The Board finds this criterion has been satisfied.
2) If a local government determines that there would be a significant effect,
then the local government must ensure that allowed land uses are
consistent with the identified function,   capacity,   and performance
standards of the facility measured at the end of the planning period
identified in the adopted TSP through one or a combination of the remedies
listed in ( a) through ( e) below...
a)   Adopting measures that demonstrate allowed land uses are
consistent with the planned function,  capacity,  and performance
standards of the facility.
FINDING:   The County will maintain its land use designations, functional classifications, and
access management standards while modifying the performance standards for County roads as
allowed under OAR 660- 012- 060( 2)( c) below.  The Board finds this criterion has been met.
b)   Amending the TSP or comprehensive plan to provide
transportation facilities,  improvements or services adequate to
support the proposed land uses consistent with the requirements of
this division...
FINDING:  The County did not choose this remedy option. The Board finds this criterion is not
applicable.
c)  Amending the TSP to modify the planned function, capacity or
performance standards of the transportation facility.
FINDING:  The County will modify the performance standard for future County facilities from
LOS C, the current standard, to LOS D.  The performance standard for existing County facilities
will remain at LOS D.   This will result in a consistent standard for both planned and existing
County facilities.  The County TSP Goal 9 ( Performance Standards Goals and Policies) sets a
goal of "[ M]aintain a level of service D or better during the peak hour throughout the County
arterial and collector road system over the next 20 years."  Goal 10 is "[ M] aintain the current
Exhibit C of Ordinance 2014- 017 Page 8
arterial and collector system in the County and prevent degradation of the capacity of the
system."  The performance standard for State highways and intersections with State highways
will remain unchanged.  The Board finds this criterion has been met.
d)   Providing other measures as a condition of development or
through development agreement or similar funding method,
including,  but not limited to,  transportation system management
measures or minor transportation improvements...
FINDING:  The County did not choose this remedy option, but the County's development code
does require an applicant to mitigate a development' s effects.  The Board finds this criterion is
not applicable.
IV.      CONCLUSION:
The proposed text amendment to move the traffic study requirements from the Subdivision
section of the code to the Supplemental provision section makes logical sense.  Many site plans
for uses that are not subdivisions or master plans still generate 50 or more weekday trips, which
is the County' s baseline for requiring a traffic study. The TPR gives local governments the
discretion to modify the performance standards for their facilities.  The County having a single
LOS benchmark for all County facilities will result in a consistent level of improvements needed
to mitigate any adverse affects of proposed land uses.
Attachments
Exhibit A, Proposed DCC 18. 116. 310 Traffic Impact Studies
Exhibit B, Revised DCC 17. 16. 115, Traffic Impact Studies
Exhibit C, Revised DCC 18. 124. 080, Other Conditions
Exhibit C of Ordinance 2014- 017 Page 9