REVIEWED
9kr_ -
09630-"--'
1'
LEGAL COUNSEL
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
Amending Title 6, Animals, of the
Deschutes County Code and * f Declaring an Emergency. * ,
r
ORDINANCE NO. 95- 014
rl
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNT y. ORE.
ORDAINS as follows:
Section 1. Amend. Section 6. 12. 010, Definition - Board, is amended
to read as set forth in Exhibit " A," attached hereto and by this
reference incorporated herein, with new language in bold type and
deletions noted in brackets.
Section 2. Amend. Section 6. 12. 090, Owner of livestock - Damage
claims, is amended as set forth in Exhibit " A," attached hereto and by
this reference incorporated herein, with new language in bold type and
deletions noted in brackets.
Section 3. Severability. The provisions of this ordinance are
severable. If any section, sentence, clause, phrase, area, overlay or
other separable part of this ordinance or any exhibit thereto is
adjudged to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, that
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of
this ordinance or any exhibit thereto.
Section 4. Codification. County Legal Counsel shall have the
authority to format the provisions contained herein in a manner that
will integrate them into the County Code consistent with the County
Legal Counsel form and style for ordinance codification. Such
codification shall include the authority to make such changes, to make
changes in numbering systems and to make such numbering changes
consistent with interrelated code sections. In addition, as part of
codification of these ordinances, County Legal Counsel may insert
appropriate legislative history reference. Any legislative history
references included herein are not adopted as part of the substance of
this ordinance, but are included for administrative convenience and as
a reference. They may be changed to correct errors and to conform to
proper style without action of the Board of County Commissioners.
Section 5. Emergency. This ordinance being necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health and safety, an
KE N01' r- C
M 91995
tet; PAGE 1 - ORDINANCE N0. 95- 014 ( 3- 29- 95)
i='P t 19:5
0138-° 0869
emergency is declared to exist, and this ordinance takes effect on its
passage.
DATED this 29th day of March, 1995.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
OF D SCHUTES C) akJNTY, OREGON
BARRY HI SLAUGHTER, Ch irman
ATT T : NANCY OP
SCHW
C4- d
Recording Secretary ROB T L. NIPPER,
PAGE 2 - ORDINANCE NO. 95- 014 ( 3- 29- 95)
commissi
issioner
0138- 08' 70
EXHIBIT " A"
Chapter 6. 12
Livestock Kills
6. 12. 015 Definition - Board.
Board" means the board of supervisors,
county commissioners.] as defined under
Deschutes County Code, Chapter 2.50.
6. 12. 090 Damage claims hearing.
All claims presentedasprovided by Section
6. 12. 070 of this chapter shall be heard
promptly [ at the first regular session of the
board after their presentation, or as soon
thereafter asmaybepracticable.] If the board
determines that any livestock has been
damaged by being injured, chased, wounded
or killed, it shall file and enter a record of the
value of the livestock and order a warrant
drawn for the amount of damages thus found,
or any portion thereof that it considers just, to
be paid by the county treasurer out of the
Dog Fund. If it considers the claim unjust, it
shall disallow it and enter that fact upon its
record. No claim shall be allowed where it
appears that the injury or damage complained
of was caused by a dog owned or controlled
by the claimant or his agent.
Exhibit A - Ordinance 95- 014 ( 3- 29- 95)