REVIEWED
r
6ji
95- 38402 LEGAL ' COUNSEL
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
Amending Title 13, Section 13. 20. 010,
Opportunity, of the Deschutes County
Code, and Declaring an Emergency.
ORDINANCE NO. 95- 074
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY?;': ORWGON,
ORDAINS as follows:
Section 1. Amendment. Section 13. 20. 010, Opportunity, of Chapter
13. 20, Recycling, of Title 13, PUBLIC SERVICES, of the Deschutes County
Code is amended to read as described in Exhibit " A," attached hereto
and by this reference incorporated herein, with new language in bold
type and deletions noted in brackets.
Section 2. Emergency. This ordinance being necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health and safety, an
emergency is declared to exist, and this ordinance takes effect on its
passage.
Section 3. Codification. County Legal Counsel shall have the
authority to format the provisions contained herein in a manner that
will integrate them into the County Code consistent with the Deschutes
County Form and Style Manual for Board Documents. Such codification
shall include the authority to make such changes, to make changes in
numbering systems and to make such numbering changes consistent with
interrelated code sections. In addition, as part of codification of
these ordinances, County Legal Counsel may insert appropriate
legislative history reference. Any legislative history references
included herein are not adopted as part of the substance of this
ordinance, but are included for administrative convenience and as a
reference. They may be changed to correct errors and to conform to
proper style without action of the Board of County Commissioners.
DATED this 1st day of November, 1995.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
OF DESCHUTES C UNTY, OR
H.' SI* WHTER, , Chairman
ATT T:
N7Z5t,
SC GEN,
CommiTJ
jioner
Recording Secretary RO RT L. NIPPER,
ommissioq t
PAGE 1 - ORDINANCE NO. 95- 074 ( 11- 1- 95) N - 2 1995
MICROFILMED
NOV 0 81995
EXHIBIT " A"
13. 20. 010 Opportunity.
The County shall insure that all persons
within the wasteshed are given the opportunity to
recycle, pursuant to Oregon Revised Statutes
Chapter 459A and Oregon Administrative Rules
Chapter 340, Division 90, as follows:
A. Place for Collection of
Recyclables.
The County shall provide a facility or
depot at the County landfill or other convenient
location for persons within the wasteshed to
deposit source - separated recyclable materials.
B. Deposit of Recyclables at Disposal
Sites.
Additionally, all disposal sites which are
open to the public for disposal, handling or
transfer of municipal solid waste shall include a
place for the deposit of recyclable material,
unlessalternative depotsor sitesare approvedby
resolution of the Board.
C. Mandatory Collection of
Recyclables.
All persons providing service, including
noncommercial haulers, shall provide all of the
person' s service customers in the portion of the
wasteshedbetweenBend city limit and the urban
growth boundary with on -route collection of
source - separated recyclables at least once each
week on the same day that solid waste is
collected from each customer.
Personsproviding service in the portion
of thewasteshedbetweenRedmondcity limit and
the urban growth boundary shall provide service
customers with on - route collection of source -
separated recyclables at least once a month on a
day that solid waste is collected from each
customer. Once the city of Redmond' s
population exceeds 10,000, persons providing
service in this portion of the wasteshed shall
provide service customers with such on - route
collection service at least once a week on a day
that solid waste is collected from each customer.
Recyclables collected on - route shall be
deliveredto the Knott recyclingfacility. While
0. 48- 0059
marketing agreements executed between
Conservation for Central Oregon, Inc., and the
franchised haulers are in effect, on - route
recyclables may also be delivered to other
persons or entities pursuant to the terms of those
agreements. Recyclablescollected from County
recyclingdepotsbyDeschutesTransfer Company,
Inc. shall be delivered to the Knott recycling
facility.
D. On - Route Recyclable Materials.
Recyclables collected on - route on either
a mandatory or optional basis shall include those
materials identified as principal recyclable
materials for Deschutes County wasteshed under
OAR 340- 90- 070( 1) and ( 7). Additionally,
recyclables collected on - route shall include tin
cans, [ and] plastic bottles and magazines. New
recyclables may be mandated for on -route
collection pursuant to Board approval based on
recommendation from the Waste Reduction
Advisory Committee ( WRAC) and the Solid
Waste Advisory Committee ( SWAG).
E. Durable Recycling Container.
All persons providing on -route collection
of source - separated recyclables shall provide each
residential service customer with at least one
durable recycling container in the form of a rigid
box or bucket with a volume of at least 12 gallons
made of material that holds up under all weather
conditions for at least five years and is easily
handled by the customer.
F. Recycling Education and
Promotion.
The County, in cooperationwith the cities
in the wasteshed, shall be responsible for
implementing a recycling education and
promotion program meeting the requirements of
OAR 340- 90- 030( 3) and 340- 90- 040( 3)( c).
Responsibility for implementing various program
elements may be delegated by franchise or other
contractual agreement to any person capable of
providing this service. Persons providing
franchised collection service shall implement
program elements described in OAR 340 - 90 -
PAGE 2 — ORDINANCE NO. 95- 074 ( 11- 1- 95)
0148- 0660
030( 3)( b) and OAR 340- 90- 040( 3)( c)( A), ( B) and
C).
G. Commercial Generators.
All persons providing service, including
noncommercial haulers, shall provide commercial
solid waste generators employing 10 or more
persons and occupying 1,000 square feet or more
in a single location within the portion of the
wasteshed between Bend city limit and the urban
growth boundary with regular on- site collection
of source - separated principal recyclables.
Once the city of Redmond' s population
exceeds10,000, all persons providing service in
the portion of the wasteshed between Redmond
city limit and the urban growth boundary shall
provide this service for commercial generators in
this portion of the wasteshed. ( Ord. 95- 074 § 1,
1995)
PAGE 3 - ORDINANCE NO. 95- 074 ( 11- 1- 95)