95- 307. 114
REVIEWED
LEGAL COUNSEL
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
An Ordinance Amending Title 15, Section 95 AU'G— 31 FM 3: 57
15. 08. 200( E), Administration, of the *—
t
r
DeschutesCounty Code, and Declaring "
t  - L i- ! iU L LJ ('
014ry
e  U
an Emergency. Ct"JUNI Y CLEIRK
ORDINANCE NO. 95- 062
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON,
ORDAINS as follows:
Section 1. Amendment. Section 15.08.200(E), Administration, of Title 15of the Deschutes County
Code is amended to read as described in Exhibit " A," attached hereto and by this reference incorporated
herein.
Section 2. Emergency. This ordinance being necessaryfor the immediate preservation of the
public peace, health and safety, an emergencyis declared to exist, and this ordinance takes effect on its
passage.
Section 3. Codification. County Legal Counselshall have the authority to format the provisions
contained herein in a manner that will integrate them into the County Code consistent with the Deschutes
County Form and Style Manual for Board Documents. Such codification shall include the authority to
make such changes, to make changes in numbering systems and to make such numbering changes
consistent with interrelated code sections. In addition, as part of codification of these ordinances, County
Legal Counsel may insert appropriate legislative history reference. Any legislative history references
included herein are not adopted as part of the substance of this ordinance, but are included for
administrative convenience and as a reference. They may be changed to correct errors and to conform
to proper style without action of the Board of County Commissioners.
DATED this 30th day of August, 1995.
ATTEST:
Recording Secreta
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
BARRY 14. SLAUGH R, Chairman
NAN& PE SCHLANGEN, Commissioner
RO T L. NIPPER, Commis loner
PAGE 1 — ORDINANCE NO. 95- 062 ( 8- 30- 95)
r, HEQ
ti r . 1 AED UG 1995
SEP 1. x:199"-
l
EXHIBIT " A" 0147- 1,760
15. 08. 200 Administration.
A. Applications for a sign permit
shall be made in writing upon forms furnished
by the planning director. Such application
shall include a scale drawing of the sign
including dimensions, height and materials
and showingits relationship to the ground or
to any building or structure to which the sign
is proposed to be installed or affixed. When
appropriate, a plot plan drawn to scale shall
be submitted which indicates the location of
proposed signing relative to street and
property lines. Prior to the issuance of a sign
permit, the building official may review the
construction aspects of the proposed sign.
The planning director or building official may
require other pertinent information where in
their opinion, such information is necessary to
determine compliance with the provisions of
this chapter.
B. The planning director shall
issue a permit for a sign covered by
application duly made unless the sign is in
violation of the provisions of this chapter.
Sign permits mistakenly issuedin violation of
this chapter are void.
C. The planning director may
revoke a sign permit if he finds that there was
a material and misleadingfalsestatementfact
in the application for the permit.
D. A sign permit shall be null and
void if work for which the permit was issued
has not been completed within a period of six
months of the date of issuance of the permit.
E. Where an electrical permit for
a sign installation is required, it shall be
obtained from the [ State Department of
Commerce, Building Codes Division]
Community Development Department, prior
to making the final electrical connection from
the sign to the electrical power source. ( Ord.
95- 062 § 1, 1995; Ord. 81- 009 § 1 Exhibit A,
1.0801 1981)