REVIEWED
8818191
Lr - Al. COUNSEL
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHU TY­,- ORE- i,- M
An Ordinance Amending Ordi- * t __,
nance No. PL - 15, Deschutes iii_%
County Zoning Ordinance of *"+ PORI 14391979, as Amended, Revising * Co
Provisions Concerning Flood
Plain Zone, and Declaring an
Emergency.
ORDINANCE NO. 88- 030
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY,
OREGON, ORDAINS as follows:
Section 1. Paragraphs ( 40), " Flood Hazard Area", ( 41),
Flood Hazard Boundary Map", ( 42), " Flood Plain Profile", of
Section 1. 030, " Definitions", of Ordinance No. PL - 15, Deschutes
County Zoning Ordinance of 1979, as amended, are hereby repealed.
Section 2. Paragraphs ( 125A), " Substantially Shaded", and
125B), " Sunchart", of Section 1. 030, " Definitions", of Ordinance
No. PL - 15, Deschutes County Zoning Ordinance of 1979, as amended,
are renumbered Paragraphs ( 125B) and ( 125C), respectively.
Section 3. Section 1. 030, " Definitions", of Ordinance No.
PL - 15, Deschutes County Zoning Ordinance of 1979, as amended, is
further amended to include the following new and amended defini-
tions.
10A) Area of Shallow Flooding. Such areas are
designated ' AO' or ' AH' Zone on the Flood Insurance
Rate Map ( FIRM). In such areas, the base flood depths
range from one to three feet, a clearly defined channel
does not exist, the path of flooding is unpredictable
and indeterminate, and velocity flow may be evident.
For purposes of this definition, ' AO' is characterized
as sheet flow and ' AH' indicates ponding.
10B) Area of Special Flood Hazard. The land in the
flood plain within a community subject to a one percent
or greater chance of flooding in any given year. Such
areas are designated by the letter ' A' or ' V' on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map ( FIRM).
38) Flood or Flooding. A general and temporary condition
of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas
from:
A. The overflow of inland or tidal waters;
and/ or
1 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 030 MED
iJO
Kc cj D
0093 1440
B. The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff
of surface waters from any source.
39) Flood, Base. The flood having a one percent
chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
Also referred to as the 1100 - year flood'. Such areas
are designated by the letter ' A' or ' V' on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map ( FIRM).
40A) Flood Insurance Rate Map. ( FIRM)'. The offi-
cial map on which the United States Federal Insurance
Administration has delineated both the areas of special
flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to
the community. The FIRM is adopted by reference in
Ordinance No. 88- 031.
41A) Flood Insurance Study. The official report
provided by the Federal Insurance Administration that
includes flood profiles, the Flood Boundary- Floodway
Map, and the water surface elevation of the base flood
condition of partial or complete inundation of normally
dry land areas. The Study is adopted by reference in
Ordinance No. 88- 031.
42A) Flood Plain Development. Any man- made change
to improved or unimproved real estate, including, but
not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or
drilling operations, located within the area of special
flood hazard.
43) Floodway. The channel of a river or other water
course, and the adjacent land areas, that must be re-
served in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation
more than one foot.
67J) Lowest Floor. The lowest floor of the lowest
enclosed area of a structure, including the basement.
An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable
solely for parking of vehicles, building access or
storage, in an area other than a basement area, is not
considered a building' s lowest floor, provided that
such enclosure is not built so as to render the struc-
ture in violation of the applicable non - elevation
design requirements of Section 4. 210( 6) this Ordinance.
76) New Construction. Any structure for which the
start of construction commenced on or after the effec-
tive date of this Ordinance. For purposes of the Flood
Plain Zone ( FP), ' new construction' means any structure
for which the start of construction commenced on or
2 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 030
0093 1441
after the date of adoption of the amendments to the
Flood Plain Zone in Ordinance No. 88- 030.
125A) Substantial Improvement. Any repair, recon-
struction or improvement of a structure, the cost of
which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value
of the structure either:
A. before the improvement or repair is started;
or
B. if the structure has been damaged and is
being restored, before the damage occurred.
For the purposes of this definition, ' substantial
improvement' is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other struc-
tural part of the building commences, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
structure. The term does not, however, include either:
C. any project for improvement of a structure to
comply with existing state or local health,
sanitary or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living
conditions; or
D. any alteration of a structure listed on the
National Register of Historic Places or a
State Inventory of Historic Places."
Section 4. Section 4. 210, " Flood Plain Zone ( FP)", of
Ordinance No. PL - 15, Deschutes County Zoning Ordinance of 1979,
as amended, is further amended to read as follows:
01. Purposes. The purposes of the Flood Plain Zone
are: to implement the Comprehensive Plan Flooding
Section; to protect the public from the hazards
associated with flood plains; to conserve impor-
tant riparian areas along rivers and streams for
the maintenance of the fish and wildlife re-
sources; and to preserve significant scenic and
natural resources while balancing the public
interests with those of individual property owners
in the designated areas.
02. The Flood Plain Zone shall include all areas
designated as " Base Flood" areas by the Flood
Insurance Study for Deschutes County. When flood
base elevation data has not been provided in the
flood insurance study, the Planning Division will
obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base
3 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 030
3.
4.
flood elevation or floodway data
federal, state or other sources,
the location of a flood plain or
Uses Permitted Outright.
available from
in determining
floodway.
A. Agricultural use conducted without establish-
ing or utilizing a structure. For purposes
of this paragraph, a ' structure' does not
include a boundary fence as long as such
fence is designed to impede as little as pos-
sible the movement of floodwaters and flood -
carried material.
B. Management, propagation and harvesting of a
forest product.
C. Open space.
D. Portions of a residential use that do not
contain structures, such as lawn, garden or
play areas.
Conditional Uses Permitted.
A. A roadway, bridge or utility structure,
except a landfill, that will not impede the
waters of a base flood.
B. Incidental storage of material or equipment
that is either not subject to damage by
flood, or is mobile and readily removable
from the area within time available after
flood warning. If such material is not
readily removable, it shall be anchored to
prevent flotation and shall not obstruct
water flow. Material or equipment stored
shall include only items which will not
create a hazard to the health or safety of
persons, property, animals or plant life
should the storage area be inundated.
C. Single- family dwellings on an individual lot,
and manufactured housing on an individual
lot in compliance with Sections 5. 100, 5. 110,
5. 120, 5. 130, 5. 140 and 5. 150 of this Ordi-
nance.
D. Agricultural or residential related accessory
buildings.
4 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 030
0093 1443
E. Hydroelectric facilities in accordance with
Sections 5. 210 and 8. 050( 22) of this Ordi-
nance.
F. Excavation, grading and fill and removal in
accordance with Sections 6. 060 and 8. 050( 23)
of this Ordinance.
G. Recreational uses requiring only structures
having an insignificant effect on flood
waters, such as golf courses, tennis courts,
driving ranges, archery ranges, picnic
grounds, boat launchings ramps, swimming
areas, wildlife or nature preserves, game
farms, fish hatcheries, shooting preserves
and hunting or fishing areas.
H. Subdividing or partitioning land in accor-
dance with the provisions of this Ordinance
and Title 17 of the Deschutes County Code.
I. Expansion or substantial improvement of an
existing dwelling, agricultural related
structure or accessory building.
5. Limitations on Conditional Uses. The following
limitations shall apply to all uses allowed by
subsection 4 of this Section:
A. No dwelling units, including manufactured
housing, accessory buildings and farm use
structures, shall be allowed, or additions to
such structures allowed, in the floodway of
any river or stream.
B. No dwelling unit, including manufactured
housing, accessory structures and farm use
buildings, shall be located in the flood
plain unless it can be demonstrated by the
applicant that no alternative exists on the
subject lot which would allow the structure
to be placed outside of the flood plain.
C. Dwelling units, including manufactured
housing, accessory structures and farm use
buildings, shall be allowed only in areas of
shallow flooding.
D. No subdivision or partition shall be allowed
which creates the potential for additional
residential dwelling units in the flood
plain.
5 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 030
uu93 1444
E. A land use which would alter or relocate a
water course shall not be allowed.
F. The cumulative effect of any proposed devel-
opment, when combined with all other existing
and anticipated development, shall not
increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot in any point.
G. Development which involves new construction
or fill or removal in the floodway shall not
be allowed unless certification by a regis-
tered professional engineer is provided,
demonstrating that the proposal shall not
result in any increase in flood levels during
occurrence of a base flood discharge, that
all necessary state and federal permits have
or can be obtained, and that all other
criteria and standards of this Ordinance have
been satisfied.
6. An application for a conditional use in an FP Zone
shall, at a minimum, contain the following inform-
ation:
A. A detailed explanation of why it is necessary
to conduct the proposed use in the flood
plain zone.
B. A site plan, drawn to scale and accompanied
by such drawings, sketches and descriptions
as are necessary to describe and illustrate
the proposed use. This site plan shall
include, at a minimum, existing and proposed
site contours in relation to the base flood
elevation, existing and proposed structures,
drainage facilities, and an explanation of
how erosion will be dealt with during and
after construction of the use.
C. The location of the property with regard to
the channel of the river or stream.
D. The location of existing and proposed diking
or abutments, if any.
E. The level of the lowest habitable floor and
of any basement floor, for any dwelling unit
or structure.
F. The level to which the structure is to be
floodproofed, if applicable.
6 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 030
7.
0093 1445
G. Elevations on the site plan shall be estab-
lished by a licensed surveyor or engineer,
and shall be in relation to mean sea level.
H. Certification by a registered professional
engineer or architect that the floodproofing
methods for any structure meet the flood -
proofing criteria established by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency and set forth in
subsection 7 of this Section.
I. A description of the extent to which the
watercourse will be altered or relocated as a
result of the proposed development.
J. All other elements or information which will
assist in the evaluation of the proposed
development and conformance with the appli-
cable criteria.
K. Certification by a registered professional
engineer verifying the floodproofing of
structures shall be obtained showing the
actual elevation in relation to mean sea
level of the lowest floor, ( including base-
ment), of all new or substantially improved
structures prior to occupancy or use of a
structure.
L. All records of any application for a condi-
tional use and all certification of eleva-
tions shall be maintained in the records of
the Planning Division for public inspection.
Criteria to Evaluate Conditional Uses.
A. A conditional use permit in a Flood Plain
Zone shall not be approved unless all stan-
dards established by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency and this Ordinance are
addressed and findings made by the hearings
body that each of the standards and criteria
are satisfied.
B. A conditional use permit shall be based upon
findings which relate to the property and
existing and proposed structure. They shall
not pertain to the property owner, inhabi-
tants, economic or financial circumstances.
C. All structures in the flood plain shall meet
the following standards.
7 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 030
01093 1446
a. Anchoring.
i. All new construction and substantial
improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure.
ii. All manufactured homes must be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse
or lateral movement, and shall be
installed using methods and practices
that minimize flood damage. Anchoring
methods may include, but are not limited
to, use of over - the - top or frame ties to
ground anchors ( see FEMA' s ' Manufactured
Home Installation in Flood Hazard Areas'
guidebook for additional techniques, on
file with the Planning Division).
b. Construction Materials and Methods.
i. All new construction and substantial
improvements shall be constructed with
materials and utility equipment resis-
tant to flood damage.
ii. All new construction and substan-
tial improvements shall be constructed
using methods and practices that mini-
mize flood damage.
iii. Electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing and air- conditioning equipment
and other service facilities shall be
designed and/ or otherwise elevated or
located so as to prevent water from
entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flood-
ing.
C. Utilities.
i. All new and replacement water supply
systems shall be designed to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of flood waters
into the system.
ii. New and replacement sanitary
systems shall be designed to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the system and discharge from the
system into flood waters.
8 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 030
U `093 1447
on- site waste disposal systems
shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during
flooding.
D. Subdivision and Partition Proposals.
a. All subdivision and partition proposals
shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
b. All subdivision and partition proposals
shall have public utilities and facili-
ties such as sewer, gas, electrical and
water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
C. All subdivision and partition proposals
shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage.
E. Review of Building Permits. Where elevation
data is not available either through the
Flood Insurance Study or from another author-
itative source, applications for building
permits shall be reviewed to assure that
proposed construction will be reasonably safe
from flooding. The test of reasonableness is
a local judgment and includes use of histori-
cal data, high- water marks, photographs of
past flooding, etc., where available.
Failure to elevate at least two feet above
grade in these zones may result in higher
insurance rates.)
F. Specific Standards. In the Flood Plain Zone,
the following requirements must be met:
a. Residential Construction.
i. New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure
shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated to or above base
flood elevation.
ii. Fully enclosed areas below the
lower floor that are subject to flooding
are prohibited, unless they are designed
to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by
allowing for the entry and exit of
9 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 030
floodwaters. Designs for
requirement must either b
a registered professional
architect, or must meet o
following criteria:
uu9 1448
meeting this
e certified by
engineer or
r exceed the
1. A minimum of two openings having a
total net area of not less than one
square inch for every square foot
of enclosed area subject to flood-
ing shall be provided.
2. The bottom of all openings shall be
no higher than one foot above
grade.
3. Openings may be equipped with
screens, louvers or other coverings
or devices, provided that they
permit the automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters.
b. Non - Residential Construction. New
construction and substantial improve-
ments of any commercial, industrial or
other non- residential structure shall
either have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated to the level of the
base flood elevation, or, together with
attendant utility and sanitary facilit-
ies, shall:
i. Be floodproofed so that below the
base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water.
ii. Have structural components capable
of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodyna-
mic loads and effects of buoyancy.
iii. Be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect that
the design and methods of construction
are in accordance with accepted stan-
dards of practice for meeting provisions
of this subsection, based on their
development and/ or review of the struc-
tural design, specifications and plans.
Such certifications shall be provided to
the County as set forth in subsection
6( H) of this Ordinance.
10 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 030
09 3 1449
iv. Non- residential structures that are
elevated, but not floodproofed, must
meet the same standards for space below
the lowest floor as described in subsec-
tion 7( F) of this Section.
v. Applicants for floodproofing non-
residential buildings shall be notified
that flood insurance premiums will be
based on rates that are one foot below
the floodproofed level ( e. g. a building
constructed to the flood level will be
rated as one foot below that level).
C. Manufactured Homes. All manufactured
homes to be placed or substantially
improved shall be elevated on a perma-
nent foundation such that the lowest
floor of the manufactured home is at or
above the base flood elevation. Such
manufactured homes shall be securely
anchored to an adequately anchored
foundation system in accordance with the
provisions of subsection 7( C) of this
Section.
G. Floodways. In floodways where potential
extreme hazards exists due to the velocity of
flood waters which carry debris, potential
projectiles and erosion potential, the
following provisions shall apply:
a. Encroachments, including fill, new
construction, substantial improvements
and other development, are prohibited
unless certification by a registered
professional engineer or architect is
provided demonstrating that encroach-
ments shall not result in any increase
in flood levels during the occurrence of
the base flood discharge.
b. If subsection ( G)( a) of this Section is
satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply
with all applicable sections of this
Ordinance.
8. Yard and Setback Requirements: In an FP Zone, the
following yard and setback requirements shall be
maintained:
11 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 030
C)'0941 1450
A. The front setback shall be a minimum of 20
feet from a property line fronting on a local
street, 30 feet from a property line fronting
on a collector and 50 feet from an arterial.
B. There shall be a minimum side yard of 10 feet
for all uses.
C. The minimum rear yard shall be 20 feet.
D. The setback from a northern lot line shall
meet the solar setback requirements in
Section 5. 300.
E. The minimum yard setback for a non- farm use
from the property line adjacent to a farm use
not owned by the applicant shall be 100 feet.
9. Stream Setback. To permit better light, air,
vision, stream and pollution control, to protect
fish and wildlife areas and to preserve the
natural scenic amenities along streams and lakes,
the following setbacks shall apply:
A. All sewage disposal installations such as
septic tanks or septic drainfields shall be
setback from the mean high- water line or mark
along all streams or lakes a minimum of 100
feet, measured at right angles to the high-
water line or mark. In those cases where
practical difficulties preclude the location
of the facilities at a distance of 100 feet,
and the County Sanitarian finds that a closer
location will not endanger public health or
safety, a setback exception may be permitted
to locate these facilities closer to the
stream or lake, but in no case closer than 25
feet.
B. All structures, buildings or similar perma-
nent fixtures shall be set back from the
high- water line or mark along all streams or
lakes a minimum of 100 feet measured at right
angles from the high- water line or mark.
10. Dimensional Standards. In an FP zone, the follow-
ing dimensional standards shall apply:
A. Lot Coverage. The main building and acces-
sory buildings located on any building site
or lot shall not cover in excess of 30% of
the total lot area.
12 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 030
0091 1451
B. Building Height. No non- agricultural build-
ing or structure shall be erected or enlarged
to exceed 2 stories or more than 30 feet in
height.
C. Minimum lot size shall be 10 acres for all
areas which have received an exception to the
Statewide Planning Goals for resource uses.
Areas which have not received an exception to
the Statewide Planning Goals shall have a
minimum lot size of 80 acres.
11. Warning and Disclaimer of Liability. The degree
of flood protection required by this Ordinance is
considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based upon scientific and engineering consider-
ations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare
occasions. Flood heights may be increased by
man- made or natural causes. This Ordinance shall
not create liability on the part of Deschutes
County, any officer, agent or employee thereof, or
the Federal Insurance Administration, for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this
Ordinance or any decision lawfully made hereunder.
012. Use variances or variances to the standards
established by subsections 5 and 7 of this Section
shall not be allowed."
Section 5. This Ordinance being necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health and safety, an emergency
is declared to exist, and this Ordinance takes effect on its
passage.
DATEDthis 1
rvl
day of , 1988.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
OF MSCHUT- ES COUNTYn OREGON
LOISARIPTOW PRANTE, Commissioner
ATT ST: TbM LT bOP,
e
Recording Secretary D K MAUDLIN,
13 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 030
ioner
irman