91- 001^ 0
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF
An Ordinance Adopting Chapter 10. 05,
Right- of- way Signs, Deschutes County
Code, Establishing Standards and
Procedures for Signs to be Installed
and Maintained Within Public Rights - of -
Way Which Fall Under the Jurisdiction
of the Board of County Commissioners,
and Declaring an Emergency.
ORDINANCE NO. 90- 011
DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
M ..... t itLe' Y, L4J
Arl
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY,
OREGON, ORDAINS as follows:
Section 1. Chapter 10. 05, Right - of - Way Signs, Deschutes
County Code is adopted as follows:
10. 05. 010 Introduction.
This ordinance is enacted to establish standards and proce-
dures for signs to be installed and maintained within public
rights- of- way which fall under the jurisdiction of the Board of
County Commissioners, and which are necessary to meet the needs
of the motorist in locating public recreational facilities and
services open to the general public. This ordinance shall be
known as the Deschutes County Road Right - of - Way Sign Ordinance.
10. 05. 020 Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this ordinance:
A. Administrator. The Public Works Director or his desig-
nee for Deschutes County, Oregon.
B. Applicant. A person or entity applying for a permit to
place signs, logos or sign panels or supplemental sign panels
within the right- of- way.
C. Business Sign ( Logo). A separately attached sign
mounted on the sign panel to show the brand, symbol, trademark or
name, or combination thereof, of services available.
D. Directional Information. The name of the business,
service or activity, qualified historical feature or qualified
cultural feature and other necessary information to direct the
motoring public to the business, service or activity, placed on a
tourist - oriented directional sign.
E. Directional Sign. A sign identifying and containing
directional information to one or more public services, to
1 - ORDINANCE NO. 90- 011 ( 12/ 20/ 90)
105 1838
natural phenomena or historic, cultural, scientific, educational
or religious sites or facilities, or to recreational facilities
open to the general public, including marinas, boat ramps,
camping facilities and day recreation facilities.
F. Erect or Construct. To construct, build, assemble,
place, affix, attach, create, paint, draw or in any way bring
into being or establish.
G. Maintain. Maintain includes painting or routine
repairs necessary to maintain the sign in a neat, clean, attrac-
tive and safe condition, and the term includes allowing to exist.
H. Qualified Motorist Business. A business furnishing
gas, food, lodging or camping which has met the requirements of
these regulations for the placement of a logo on a sign panel or
supplemental sign panel.
I. Reconstruction. Replacing a sign totally or partially
to increase its size or performing any work, except maintenance
work, that alters or changes a sign.
J. Responsible Operator or Owner. The owner in fee simple
or a person or entity who operates a motorist business and who
has authority to enter into an agreement relative to matters
covered by this ordinance.
K Sign Panel. Sign panel includes " motorist informa-
tional signs," " specific informational panel, " and " logo signs."
L. Tourist - Oriented Directional Sign. A sign panel with
the name of a qualified tourist - oriented business, service or
activity, or qualified historical feature or qualified cultural
feature together with directional information erected in advance
of or at an intersection.
M. Trailblazer. A small sign panel with the type of
motorist service offered and the name, direction and distance to
the qualified motorist business.
N. MUTCD means the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices.
10. 05. 030 Prohibited Uses.
A sign or sign panel may not be erected or maintained if it:
A. Interferes with, imitates or resembles any official
traffic control sign, signal or device, or attempts or appears to
attempt to direct the movement of traffic.
2 - ORDINANCE NO. 90- 011 ( 12/ 20/ 90)
105 1839
B. Prevents the driver of a motor vehicle from having a
clear and unobstructed view of official traffic control signs and
approaching or merging traffic.
C. Contains, includes or is illuminated by any flashing,
intermittent, revolving, rotating or moving lights, or moves or
has any animated or moving parts.
D. Has any lighting, unless such lighting is so effec-
tively shielded as to prevent beams or rays of light from being
directed at any portion of the main traveled way of a road, or is
of such low intensity as not to cause glare or to impair the
vision of the driver or otherwise to interfere with the operation
thereof.
E. Is located upon a tree or painted or drawn upon a rock
or other natural feature.
F. Advertises or calls attention to an activity or attrac-
tion no longer carried on.
G. Advertises activities that are illegal under any state,
federal or local law applicable at the location of the sign or of
the activities.
H. Is not maintained in a neat, clean and attractive
condition and in good repair as determined by the public works
director or his designee.
I. Is not able to withstand a wind pressure of 20 pounds
per square foot of exposed surface.
J. Does not meet the requirements of this ordinance or the
MUTCD.
10. 05. 040 Exemptions.
The following signs are exempted under this ordinance.
A. Those traffic signs that are required for traffic
control and safety included in the MUTCD.
B. Those portions of sign that intrude into the public
right- of- way that were granted a permit under the Deschutes
County Sign Ordinance.
C. Temporary activity signs that are granted a permit
lasting less than ninety days which otherwise are in compliance
with the terms of this ordinance, including parades, fun runs,
bicycle or pedestrian contests, political signs or special public
functions.
3 - ORDINANCE NO. 90- 011 ( 12/ 20/ 90)
105 ® 1840
10. 05. 050 Sign types.
The following types of signs are allowed under the terms of
this ordinance.
A. Type I - Qualified Motorist Business. Tour route
signs; tourist information signs; public facility and service
signs; commercial businesses offering food, gas, lodging or
camping services; historic location signs; federal, state and
local recreational and facility signs; and non- profit institu-
tions, including churches and civic organizations.
B. Type II - Qualified Tourist - Oriented Business. Any
legal, cultural, historical, recreational, educational or enter-
taining activity or a unique or unusual commercial or non- profit
activity the major portion of whose income or visitors are
derived during its normal business season from motorists not
residing in the immediate area of the activity.
10. 05. 060 Application process.
A. Application for a Type I or Type II sign shall be made
in writing addressed to the Public Works Director for Deschutes
County, Oregon. It may be in letter form or on a form prepared
for such purpose by the department. Information contained shall
include the following: the name, address and telephone number of
the owner or operator of the business or service for which the
sign is intended; the reason for the sign; a description of the
location( s) for the sign; a description of the information
requested on the sign; and be accompanied by the appropriate
application fee. Each business applicant shall also submit a
copy of the business' land use permit. The administrator shall
notify the appropriate planning director of the application and
request review and comment on the application.
B. Within thirty working days from the date of receipt of
the request for a sign, the administrator shall respond in
writing to the applicant as to the adequacy of the information
received.
Requests for signs that do not comply with the provi-
sions of this chapter shall be denied by the Administrator. If
the application is denied, the administrator shall cite the
appropriate section of the ordinance or MUTCD pertinent to the
application.
C. Each application shall be accompanied with the appro-
priate fee for processing. If the application is approved, the
applicant shall make arrangements to have the Department install
the sign and pay the required costs for materials, labor and
travel. Payment of such costs and execution of a maintenance
agreement, along with not less than two year' s maintenance fees,
shall be made in advance.
4 - ORDINANCE NO. 90- 011 ( 12/ 20/ 90)
105 - 1841
D. If the application is denied, the applicant may appeal
the decision as provided in Title 22 of the Deschutes County
Code.
10. 05. 070 Composition.
All signs installed under the terms of this ordinance shall
be in compliance with the MUTCD.
A. Sign panels shall have a blue background with a white
reflectorized border for all signs, except historical, cultural
and recreational which shall have a brown background.
B. Logos shall have a blue background with a white legend
and border. The principal legend should be at least equal in
height to the directional legend on the sign panel. Where
business identification symbols or trademarks are used alone for
a logo, the border may be omitted, the symbol or trademark shall
be reproduced in the colors and general shape consistent with
customary use and any integral legend shall be in proportionate
size. messages, symbols and trademarks which resemble any
official traffic control device are prohibited. The vertical and
horizontal spacing between logos on sign panels shall not exceed
8 inches and 12 inches respectively.
C. All directional arrows and all letters and numbers used
in the name of the type of service and directional legend shall
be white and reflectorized.
D. Each logo shall be contained within a 24 - inch wide and
18 - inch high rectangular background area, including border.
E. All letters used in the name of the type of service on
the sign panel shall be 4 - inch capital letters.
F. Tourist - oriented directional signs shall have a blue
reflectorized background with a white reflectorized border and
message. The intersection sign shall not exceed 18 inches in
height and 72 inches in length, and shall have not more than two
lines of legend, including a separate direction arrow and the
distance to the facility to the nearest one- quarter mile. The
content of the legend shall be limited to the identification of
the business and shall not include promotional advertising as
determined by the administrator.
A six- inch letter height shall
oriented directional signs shall be
tourist - oriented directional signs,
directional arrow and mileage, the
tional word information " ahead" or
required.
5 - ORDINANCE NO. 90- 011 ( 12/ 20/ 90)
be used. Advance tourist -
the same as intersection
except that in lieu of the
sign shall include the direc-
next left" etc., as may be
105 - 1842
G. All directional arrows, letters and numbers used in the
name of the type of service and the directional legend shall be
white and reflectorized.
H. Tourist - oriented directional signs are to be located at
intersections.
I. Notwithstanding the fact that a tourist - oriented
business meets all of the eligibility requirements of this
ordinance and applicable provisions of the Deschutes County Code,
an application may be denied if it is determined, after inves-
tigation by the administrator, that adequate direction to the
business cannot be given by a reasonable number of allowable
tourist information directional signs.
10. 05. 080 Fees, installation and maintenance.
A. All Type I and Type II signs, except city, county,
state and federal directional and information signs, shall be
required to reimburse the county for the actual costs of process-
ing the application and the material and labor required to
construct, purchase, locate, install and maintain a sign for an
applicant. A fee schedule shall be adopted each budget year
which sets forth the department' s fees which shall apply until
replaced by a new fee schedule.
B. All Type I and type II signs shall be installed,
maintained and removed by the county in accordance with the MUTCD
and this ordinance.
10. 05. 090 Criteria for specific information panels.
A. Each qualified motorist business identified on a sign
panel shall have given written assurance to the administrator of
its conformity with all applicable laws concerning the provisions
of public accommodations without regard to race, religion, color,
sex or national origin, and shall not be in breach of the
assurance.
B. The types of service permitted shall be limited to:
Gas," which shall include fuel, oil, tire repair, air and water,
restroom facilities, drinking water and telephone, with con-
tinuous operations for a minimum of twelve hours a day, six days
a week. " Food" shall include, continuous operations for a
minimum of twelve hours a day, six days a week, restroom facili-
ties and telephone, with the primary business of providing meals.
Lodging" shall include, adequate sleeping accommodations, modern
sanitary facilities and drinking water. " Camping" shall include,
adequate parking accommodations, modern sanitary facilities and
drinking water.
6 - ORDINANCE NO. 90- 011 ( 12/ 20/ 90)
105 " 1843
C. Panels shall be in the direction of traffic. Succes-
sive sign panels shall be those for " camping," " lodging," " food,
and " gas," in that order.
D. Riders with the words " diesel" or " LP gas" or a rider
containing both may be placed on a sign panel underneath any gas
logo if the qualified motorist service business has diesel or LP
gas available during its hours of operation. Such rider shall be
35 inches long and 7 inches high with 6 - inch letters. The color
shall be blue with white letters. The combination rider shall be
52 inches long and 7 inches high with 5 - inch high letters.
E. Each qualified tourist - oriented business identified on
a tourist - oriented directional sign shall have given written
assurance to the administrator of its conformity with all appli-
cable laws concerning the provisions of public accommodations
without regard to race, religion, color, sex or national origin,
and shall not be in breach of that assurance.
F. Except for undeveloped cultural and historic features,
a qualified tourist - oriented business shall have restroom facili-
ties and drinking water available; continuous operation at least
six hours per day, six days a week during its normal business
season; a license where required; and adequate parking accommoda-
tions.
10. 05. 100 Spacing of signs and panels.
Spacing of sign panels and the placement of directional
signs shall be in accordance with the MUTCD and in the judgment
of the administrator. In any case, the number of signs, includ-
ing directional signs, shall be the minimum necessary to enable a
motorist to locate the tourist - oriented business or to locate the
public service.
10. 05. 110 Violation -- Penalty.
A. Any person, firm or corporation erecting, constructing,
reconstructing or maintaining a business sign, directional sign,
tourist - oriented directional sign, trailblazer or temporary
activity sign in violation of the provisions of this title
constitutes a class A infraction and shall be punishable upon
conviction by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars.
B. Each day of a violation described in subsection A of
this section constitutes a separate offense and is punishable as
a continuing infraction under chapter 1. 16 of this code.
10. 05. 120 Nuisance Declared -- Removal.
A. Any sign maintained in violation of this Ordinance
constitutes a nuisance.
7 - ORDINANCE NO. 90- 011 ( 12/ 20/ 90)
115 1844
B. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the
authority of the County Road Official pursuant to ORS 368. 945.
Section 2. This Ordinance being necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health and safety, an emergency
is declared to exist, and this Ordinance takes effect on its
passage.
DATED this dZ22 day of ,
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
LOIS ' B " STOW PRANTE, Commissic
iL
TOM HRO , hair
Recording Secretary D MAUDLIN, C mmissioner
8 - ORDINANCE NO. 90- 011 ( 12/ 20/ 90)