VOL 70 FhuEIII
86 002 i0 1"5OEC31 p
BEFORETHEBOARDOFCOUNTYCOMMISSIONERSOFDES %MW COUN?4-',%SEGON
t ,
31,E P . t
g. COUtl
yCI IJ o l
An Ordinance Relating To
L
Solid Waste Management
Including Accumulation,
Storage, Collection, Trans-
portation, Disposal, and
Recycling of Waste and Solid
Waste; Franchising of Solid
Waste Collection, Disposal
And Recycling; Repealing Con-
flicting Ordinances;
Providing Penalties,
Declaring An Emergency And
Prescribing An Effective Date.*
ORDINANCE NO. 85- 037
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY,
OREGON, ORDAINS as follows:
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 1. 01. SHORT TITLE. This ordinance shall be known
as the " Solid Waste Management Ordinance".
Section 1. 02. INDEX.
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 1. 01. Short Title pg. 1
Section 1. 02. Index pg. 1
Section 2. 01. Purpose and Policy pg. 4
Section 3. 01. Authority pg. 5
Section 4. 01. General Definitions pg. 5
Section 5. 01. Administration pg- 8
Section 5. 02. Persons and Practices Exempted pg. 8
ARTICLE II. SOLID WASTE ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
Section 6. 01. Solid Waste Advisory Committee pg. 10
1 - ORDINANCE NO. 85- 037
y
4 i
VOL 70 FACE112
Section 6. 02. Appointment of Solid Waste
pg. 12
Section 8. 02. Education, Promotion and
Advisory Committee pg. 10
Section 6. 03. Duties of Solid Waste
Section 8. 03. Recycling Report pg.
Advisory Committee pg. 11
Section 6. 04. Regional Solid Waste Committee pg. 11
ARTICLE III. REGULATION OF SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT.
DISPOSAL AND RECYCLING.
Section 7. 01. Regulation of Solid Waste
9. 01. Persons, activities and
Management pg. 11
ARTICLE IV. RECYCLING.
Section 8. 01. Opportunity to Recycle pg. 12
Section 8. 02. Education, Promotion and
Notification pg. 12
Section 8. 03. Recycling Report pg. 12
Section 8. 04. Prohibited Activities pg. 12
ARTICLE V. FRANCHISING OF SOLID WASTE COLLECTION,
DISPOSAL AND RECYCLING.
Section 9. 01. Persons, activities and
practices regulated pg. 12
Section 9. 02. Applications for Franchises pg. 13
Section 9. 03. Existing Collection, Disposal
and Recycling Service Providers pg. 14
Section 9. 04. Specific Collection Franchise
Requirements pg. 14
Section 9. 05. Specific Disposal Franchise
Requirements pg. 15
Section 9. 06. Expansion of Collection
Franchise Service Area pg. 16
Section 9. 07. Review of Applications for
Franchises pg. 16
Section 9. 08. Board action on Applications
for Franchises pg. 17
Section 9. 09. Types of Franchises pg. 18
Section 9. 10. Appeal from Determination of
Board on Franchise pg. 18
2 - ORDINANCE NO. 85- 037
VOL 70 FAGS110
Section 9. 11. Franchise Terms and Renewals pg. 19
Section 9. 12. Responsibilities of Franchisees pg. 19
Section 9. 13. Enforcement and Corrective
Action p4. 21
Section 9. 14. Preventing Interruption of
Service pg. 22
Section 9. 15. Suspension, Modification,
Revocation, or Refusal to Renew
Franchise pg. 23
Section 9. 16. Franchise Fees pg. 24
Section 9. 17. Use of Franchise Fees pg. 25
Section 9. 18. Transfer of Franchises pg. 25
ARTICLE VI. RATES FOR COLLECTION, RECYCLING AND DISPOSAL
SERVICE.
Section 10. 01. Existing Rates pg. 25
Section 10. 02. Rate Standards pg. 25
Section 10. 03. Rate Adjustments pg. 26
Section 10. 04. Rate Preferences Prohibited pg. 28
Section 10. 05. Responsibility for Payment of
Charges for Service pg. 28
Section 10. 06. Franchisee Billings to
Customers pg. 29
ARTICLE VII. REGIONAL COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL.
Section 11. 01. Agreements for Joint
Franchising or Planning pg. 29
Section 11. 02. Agreements for Allocation
of Franchise Fees pg. 29
Section 11. 03. Commercial Hauling and Self -
Hauling Disposal Regulation
and Fees pg. 29
ARTICLE VIII. SOLID WASTE NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
Section 12. 01. Creation of Nuisance by
Accumulation or Unauthorized
Disposal of Solid Waste pg. 29
3 - ORDINANCE NO. 85- 037
VOL 70 FACE
Section 12. 02. Abatement of Solid Waste
Nuisances pg. 30
Section 12. 03. Civil Action to Abate Nuisances pg. 30
Section 12. 04. Unauthorized Disposal pg. 31
Section 12. 05. Transportation of Solid Waste pg. 31
ARTICLE IX. APPEALS, ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
Section 13. 01. Appeals from Decisions of
the Board pg. 31
Section 13. 02. Appeals from Decisions of the
Administrator pg. 31
Section 13. 03. Enforcement pg. 31
Section 13. 04. Penalties pg. 32
ARTICLE X. CONSTRUCTION, REPEAL OF CONFLICTING
ORDINANCES, AND EMERGENCY CLAUSE AND
EFFECTIVE DATE.
Section 14. 01. Construction pg. 32
Section 14. 02. Repeal of Conflicting
Ordinances pg. 32
Section 14. 03. Emergency Clause and
Effective Date pg. 32
Section 2. 01. PURPOSE AND POLICY. To protect the health,
safety and welfare of the people of Deschutes County, to provide
a coordinated solid waste management program, and to provide the
opportunity to recycle, it is declared to be the policy of Des-
chutes County to regulate solid waste management by:
1) Following the priorities on managing solid waste pro-
vided in ORS 459. 015( 2), giving due consideration to economic and
technical feasibility.
2) Providing for safe and sanitary accumulation,
storage,
collection, transportation and disposal of solid waste.
3) Prohibiting accumulation of waste or solid waste on
private property in such manner as to create a public nuisance, a
hazard to health or a condition of unsightliness, and to provide
for the abatement of such conditions where found.
4) Providing the opportunity to recycle as part of the
overall solid waste collection, transportation and disposal sys-
tems, taking advantage, where possible, of coordinated area - wide
4 - ORDINANCE NO. 85- 037
VOL 70 FAGE115
service, promotion, education and marketing.
5) Developing a regional long- range plan to provide ade-
quate disposal and recycling sites and facilities to meet future
demands.
6) Providing for a coordinated county - wide solid waste
management and recycling plan in cooperation with federal, state
and local agencies responsible for the prevention, control or
abatement of air, water and ground pollution and prevention of
litter.
7) Providing for public input in solid waste management
and recycling through the Solid Waste Advisory Committee.
8) Providing for a coordinated solid waste management and
recycling plan with cities within Deschutes County and with other
counties or cities should regional plans be developed.
9) Providing for cooperation and agreements between Des-
chutes County and other counties involving joint or regional
franchising of solid waste collection, disposal and recycling.
10) Providing minimum standards for location and operation
of solid waste disposal and recycling sites to protect adjacent
and nearby residents.
11) Providing for and encouraging research, studies, sur-
veys and demonstration projects on developing more sanitary,
efficient and economical solid waste management systems.
12) Encouraging utilization of the capabilities and ex-
pertise of private industry in accomplishing the purposes of this
ordinance.
Section 3. 01. AUTHORITY. This ordinance is adopted pur-
suant to ORS Chapters 190, 203, and 459.
Section 4. 01. GENERAL DEFINITIONS. For the purpose of this
ordinance, and where appropriate in the context, words used in
the present tense include the future, the singular number
includes the plural, the word " shall" is mandatory and not
directory, and the term " this ordinance" shall be deemed to
include all amendments hereafter made to this ordinance.
1) ADMINISTRATOR. The County Engineer, County Health
Officer, County Sanitarian or other person designated by reso-
lution of the Board to administer this ordinance, and the duly
authorized deputy or assistant of such person.
2) BOARD. The Board of County Commissioners of Deschutes
County.
3) COLLECTION FRANCHISE. A franchise to collect, trans-
port, dispose of, deposit or store solid waste and recyclable
5 - ORDINANCE NO. 85- 037
r i ,
I VOL iJ0
materials.
4) COLLECTION VEHICLE. Any vehicle used to collect or
transport solid waste and recyclable material.
5) COMMERCIAL HAULER. A collection franchisee whose
principal business is the collection, transportation and disposal
of solid waste and recyclable material.
6) COMMITTEE. The Solid Waste Advisory Committee.
7) COMPENSATION. Any type of consideration given for ser-
vice, including, but not limited to, direct or indirect compen-
sation by tenants, occupants, licensees or similar persons.
8) DEPOT. A permanent or temporary facility, container or
box provided for persons to deposit totally source - separated
materials for recycling or reuse.
9) DISPOSAL. Accumulation, storage, collection, trans-
portation and disposal of solid waste.
10) DISPOSAL FRANCHISE. A franchise to create or maintain
a disposal site.
11) DISPOSAL SITE. Any land and facilities used for the
disposal, handling or transfer of or resource recovery from solid
waste, including, but not limited to, dumps, sludge lagoons and
treatment facilities, landfills, sanitary landfills, compost-
ing plants, transfer stations and incinerators. " Disposal site"
does not include a landfill site which is subject to the permit
requirements of ORS 468. 740 or 481. 345, or a site which is not
used by the public either directly or through a service and which
is used by the owner or person in control thereof to dispose of
wood scrap, sawdust, bark, soil, rock, building demolition
material or nonputrescible industrial waste products resulting
from the process of manufacturing.
12) FRANCHISE. A license to provide service issued by the
Board for a fee pursuant to this ordinance.
13) FRANCHISEE. A person to whom the Board has granted a
franchise.
14) GENERATOR ( OF SOLID WASTE). A person who possesses and
controls an item or material immediately prior to and at the time
it becomes waste or solid waste, or a person who last used an
item or material and makes it available for recycling or reuse.
15) HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any waste: ( a) defined as hazardous
by or pursuant to ORS Chapter 459; or ( b) that may, by itself or
in combination with other materials, be radioactive, infectious,
explosive, poisonous, caustic, toxic or otherwise dangerous or
injurious to human, plant or animal life.
6 - ORDINANCE NO. 85- 037
16) INCINERATOR. A combustion device specifically designed
for the reduction by burning of solid, semi- solid or liquid
waste.
17) LANDFILL. A disposal site operated by means of com-
pacting and covering solid waste at specific designated inter-
vals, but not each operating day.
18) NON - COMMERICAL HAULER. A collection franchisee whose
principal business is other than the collection, transportation
and disposal of solid waste and recyclable material.
19) ON - ROUTE COLLECTION. Pick up of source - separated
recyclable material from the generator at the place of
generation.
20) PERSON. Means and includes individuals, corporations,
associations, firms, partnerships and joint stock companies.
21) PUTRESCIBLE MATERIAL. Organic material that can decom-
pose and may give rise to foul smelling, offensive products.
22) RECYCLE OR RECYCLING. Use of any process by which
solid waste is transformed into new products in such a manner
that the original material may lose its identity.
23) RECYCLABLE MATERIAL. Any material that can be
collected and sold for recycling at a net cost equal to or less
than the cost of collection and disposal of the same material.
24) REGULATIONS. Regulations promulgated by the Board
pursuant to this ordinance.
25) RESOURCE RECOVERY. The process of obtaining useful
material or energy resources from solid waste, including recy-
cling and reuse.
26) REUSE. Return of material into the economic stream for
use in the same kind of application as before without change in
its identity.
27) RULES. Rules promulgated by state agencies pursuant to
ORS Chapter 459.
28) SANITARY LANDFILL. A disposal site operated by means
of compacting and covering solid waste at least once each oper-
ating day.
29) SELF - HAULING. Transportation by a generator of such
person' s own waste, solid waste or recyclable material directly
to a disposal or recycling site or depot. Self - hauling includes
the transportation of solid waste or recyclable material which
the generator produces as an incidental part of the generator' s
business, such as waste incidental to restaurants, janitorial
7 - ORDINANCE NO. 85- 037
service, gardening or landscaping,
Waste incidental to the generator' s
accumulated or stored waste of the
clients.
VOL 70 FADE118
carpentry, rendering, etc.
business does not include the
generator' s customers or
30) SERVICE. Collection, transportation, transfer,
disposal or recycling of solid waste or recyclable material for
compensation. " Service" does not include self - hauling.
31) SERVICE AREA. The geographical area or premises in
which service, other than operation of a disposal site, is or has
been provided.
32) SOLID WASTE. All putrescible and non- putrescible
waste, whether in solid or liquid form, exept liquid - carried
industrial waste or sewage or sewage sludge hauled as an in-
cidental part of a septic tank or cesspool cleaning service, but
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, paper, cardboard, sewage
sludge, street refuse, industrial waste, swill, demolition and
construction waste, abandoned vehicles or parts thereof, dis-
carded home and industrial appliances, manure, vegetable or ani-
mal solid and semi- solid waste, dead animals and other discarded
solid material.
33) SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT. Prevention or reduction of
solid waste accumulation, including management of storage, col-
lection, transportation, treatment, utilization, processing and
final disposal or salvage, source - separation, recycling or reuse
of and resource recovery from solid waste, and necessary
facilities therefor.
34) TRANSFER STATION. A fixed or mobile facility normally
used as an adjunct of a solid waste collection and disposal sys-
tem or resource recovery system between a collection route and a
disposal site.
35) WASTE. Useless, unwanted or discarded material.
36) WASTESHED. The geographic area within Deschutes
County.
Section 5. 01. ADMINISTRATION. The Adminstrator, under the
supervision of the Board and with the assistance of the Com-
mittee, shall be responsible for the enforcement of this ordi-
nance. In order to carry out the provisions of this ordinance,
the Administrator shall enter or authorize personnel to enter on
the premises of any person subject to this ordinance at
reasonable times and in a reasonable manner to determine com-
pliance with this ordinance, regulations and franchises promul-
gated and issued pursuant thereto.
Section 5. 02. PERSONS AND PRACTICES EXEMPTED.
1) This ordinance shall not apply to:
8 - ORDINANCE NO. 85- 037
vol.
70 = 1f.9
a) Areas lying within the limits of any incorporated
municipality actively operating as such in the
absence of a mutual agreement between the city and
Deschutes County.
b) Federal or state agencies that collect, store,
transport or dispose of waste or solid waste, or
those persons who contract with such agencies to
perform service, but only as to the terms for
collection or disposal service under the contract.
This exemption does not apply to disposal at a
disposal site operated by a franchisee under this
ordinance.
c) Auto dismantling pursuant to ORS 481. 345 to
481. 370.
d) The collection, transportation and reuse or re-
cycling of totally source - separated materials by
religious, charitable, benevolent or fraternal
organizations for fundraising, or by any person
when the source - separated materials are generated
by the person and are purchased from or exchanged
by the generator for fair market value for reuse
or recycling.
e) The collection, transportation, deposit and
disposal by the owner of residential property of
solid waste or recyclable material generated by
tenants or occupants of the property. For
purposes of this subsection, " residential
property" means real property or improvements, or
both, in or upon which a person resides, and
includes any structure used as a residence, either
primary or secondary.
f) Any person or practice which is exempted by
resolution of the Board. In determining whether
to exempt a person or practice pursuant to this
subsection, the Board shall consider the following
factors:
i)
9 - ORDINANCE NO. 85- 037
The impact of granting the exemption
upon affected existing franchises;
The impact of requiring the affected
person to obtain a franchise;
The impact of granting or denying the
exemption on the quality of solid waste
collection, transportation, deposit and
disposal for the affected persons.
VOL 70 FACT120"
2) In addition to the exemptions in subsection ( 1) of this
section, sections 12. 01 to 12. 04 of this ordinance shall not
apply to:
a) Disposal sites franchised under provisions of this
ordinance and in compliance with this ordinance.
b) Agricultural operations, growing or harvesting of
crops and the raising of fowl or animals.
ARTICLE II. SOLID WASTE ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
Section 6. 01. SOLID WASTE ADVISORY COMMITTEE. The Solid
Waste Advisory Committee, created by Ordinance No. CG - 4, as
amended, is continued. The committee includes:
1) Seven members, consisting of:
a) One ( 1) member with an engineering or technical
background.
b) One ( 1) member who is a franchisee under Section
9. 03 of this ordinance or the franchisee' s
designated representative.
c) Five ( 5) lay members.
2) Committee advisors including the County Building
Inspector, Sanitarian and Engineer or their representatives.
Section 6. 02. APPOINTMENT OF SOLID WASTE ADVISORY
COMMITTEE.
1) Members, ex - officio members and advisors shall be ap-
pointed by the Board. The Board may appoint additional persons
to the Committee in these categories. The Board may appoint or
approve designation of alternates to serve in the absence of
persons appointed to the Committee.
2) Public employe members shall serve for the terms of
their offices. Appointment of other persons as members shall be
for staggered terms not to exceed four years. Members shall
serve until their successors are appointed and qualified.
Vacancies shall be filled by the Board for the balance of the
unexpired terms.
3) The Board shall appoint one member as Chairperson and
another as Vice - Chairperson, both of whom shall serve in that
capacity at the pleasure of the Board. Five members of the
Committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business. The Committee shall meet at such times as deemed
necessary or as called by the Board. The Chairperson or any
10 - ORDINANCE NO. 85- 037
von 70 PAcF121
three members of the Committee may call a special meeting with
ten days' notice to other members of the Committee, provided,
however, that members may waive such notice.
Section 6. 03. DUTIES OF SOLID WASTE ADVISORY COMMITTEE. In
addition to other duties prescribed by this ordinance, the Com-
mittee shall:
1) Make an annual report to the Board containing recom-
mendations on development and implementation of a solid waste
management plan and any necessary regulations or amendments to
this ordinance.
2) In consultation with responsible public officials and
with persons providing service:
a) Develop and periodically review a solid waste
management plan including regional disposal and
recycling sites and necessary disposal and re-
cycling systems for review, adoption or modifi-
cation by the Board.
b) Develop and recommend to the appropriate agency or
the Board minimum standards for location and oper-
ation of disposal and recycling sites including,
but not limited to, protection of adjacent and
nearby residents.
3) Perform such other duties as are directed by the Board
or as the Committee may find necessary to effectively carry out
the purposes of this ordinance.
Section 6. 04. REGIONAL SOLID WASTE COMMITTEE. The Board
may appoint one or more members of the Committee to serve on any
regional solid waste committee to advise the Board.
ARTICLE III. REGULATION OF SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT.
Section 7. 01. REGULATION OF SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT. Upon
its own motion or upon recommendation of the Committee, the Board
may adopt reasonable and necessary regulations governing disposal
and recycling sites or implementing this ordinance. Such
regulations shall conform to ORS Chapter 459 and rules
promulgated pursuant thereto.
ARTICLE IV. RECYCLING.
Section 8. 01. OPPORTUNITY TO RECYCLE. All persons in the
wasteshed shall have the opportunity to recycle, pursuant to ORS
Chapter 459, as follows:
1) Landfills and Transfer Stations. All landfills and
transfer stations open to the public for the disposal of solid
waste shall provide a place for the deposit of recyclable mate -
11 - ORDINANCE NO. 85- 037
VOL 70 FAGS1.22Z
rial, unless an alternative depot or site is approved by
resolution of the Board.
2) Depots. In addition to recycling sites at landfills
and transfer stations, the Board may approve the location and use
of temporary or permanent depots for the deposit of recyclable
material.
3) Recycling collection. All persons providing service,
including non- commercial haulers, shall provide all of their
service customers in the wasteshed within the urban growth
boundaries of the Cities of Bend and Redmond with on - route
collection of recyclable materials on at least a monthly basis.
The Board, by resolution, may require such persons to provide
on - route collection of recyclable materials more frequently than
once a month and/ or for persons who are not service customers.
Section 8. 02. EDUCATION, PROMOTION AND NOTIFICATION. The
County, in cooperation with the cities in the wasteshed and
franchisees, shall provide a program of education and promotion
to encourage recycling within the wasteshed. Notice of the
opportunity for recycling shall be provided by disposal and
collection franchisees to persons utilizing the franchisees'
services.
Section 8. 03. RECYCLING REPORT. The County, in cooperation
with the cities in the wasteshed and franchisees, shall develop
and submit a recycling report to the State Department of Environ-
mental Quality. The report will describe how the opportunity to
recycle is being provided to persons within the wasteshed.
Section 8. 04. PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES. No person shall:
1) Without permission of the owner or generator of recy-
clable material, take recyclable material set out to be collected
by a collection franchisee or other person providing service.
2) Remove recyclable material from a container, box, col-
lection vehicle, depot or other receptacle for recyclable mate-
rial without permission of the owner or person in control of the
receptacle.
3) Mix source - separated recyclable material with solid
waste in any vehicle, box, container or receptacle used in solid
waste collection or disposal.
4) Place solid waste in any vehicle, box, container, depot
or receptacle used for recyclable material.
ARTICLE V. FRANCHISING OF SOLID WASTE COLLECTION,
DISPOSAL AND RECYCLING.
Section 9. 01. PERSONS, ACTIVITIES AND PRACTICES REGULATED.
Unless exempted under Section 5. 02 of this ordinance, no person
12 - ORDINANCE NO. 85- 037
i VEL 70 FAGS' 123
shall provide service except as authorized by a collection or dis-
posal franchise issued pursuant to this article.
Section 9. 02. APPLICATIONS FOR FRANCHISES.
1) Application for a franchise shall be made on forms
provided by the Administrator. The Administrator may require the
filing of additional information necessary to determine com-
pliance with this ordinance, ORS Chapter 459 and regulations and
rules promulgated thereunder together with any other applicable
laws or county ordinances.
2) The applicant for a collection or disposal franchise
shall demonstrate to the Board' s satisfaction that the applicant:
a) Has sufficient vehicles, equipment, land, facil-
ities, personnel and financial resources to pro-
vide the proposed service and to meet the stan-
dards established by this ordinance, ORS Chap-
ter 459 and regulations or rules promulgated there-
under.
b) Has in force public liability insurance in the
amount of not less than $ 100, 000 per person and
300, 000 per accident for bodily injury, and not
less than $ 50, 000 for property damage, which shall
be evidenced by a certificate of insurance. Des-
chutes County shall be a named co- insured on such
policy. The policy and certificate shall provide
that it may not be cancelled without 30 days'
written notice to the Board.
c) Has sufficient experience in properly providing
service of comparable quality and quantity to
insure compliance with this ordinance, any regu-
lations promulgated thereunder and any franchise
issued to the applicant. If the applicant does
not prove to the satisfaction of the Board that
the applicant has sufficient experience, the Board
may require the applicant to submit a corporate
surety bond in an amount not to exceed $ 20, 000,
issued by a person or company authorized to do
business in the State of Oregon, guaranteeing full
and faithful performance by the applicant of the
service and of all duties and obligations of a
franchisee under this ordinance. If the applicant
is applying for more than one franchise, the Board
may permit the applicant to provide a single bond
covering all such liabilities.
For commercial haulers, the amount of the bond
shall be determined by the Board based upon the
applicant' s actual or projected annual gross
receipts. For non- commercial haulers, the amount
13 - ORDINANCE NO. 85- 037
f y
VOL 70 FACE124
of the bond shall be set by the Board based upon
the annual cost of collection service, as
described in Section 9. 16 of this Ordinance. The
Board may waive the surety bond in the case of an
applicant who is a non- commercial hauler or whose
total landfill disposal fees do not exceed $ 100
per month.
3) Applicants shall specify the nature, type and extent of
service to be provided, any solid waste or recyclable material
that will not be accepted for collection, disposal, or recycling,
and any special requirements for the handling of hazardous waste.
Section 9. 03. EXISTING COLLECTION, DISPOSAL AND RECYCLING
SERVICE PROVIDERS. Persons providing collection, disposal or
recycling service on the effective date of this ordinance,
whether or not that service has been provided pursuant to a
franchise or for direct compensation, and who are not exempted
under Section 5. 02 of this ordinance, shall file an application
for an appropriate franchise together with any required infor-
mation within 30 days after the effective date of this ordinance.
Upon filing the application, such person may continue providing
existing service until a final determination on the application
is made by the Board or a court on appeal. Persons who meet the
applicable qualifications of this article and who were providing
collection, disposal or recycling service on the effective date
of this ordinance shall be awarded a collection or disposal
franchise for the area served on the effective date of this
ordinance.
Section 9. 04. SPECIFIC COLLECTION FRANCHISE REQUIREMENTS.
An applicant for a collection franchise or franchise renewal
shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Board that the
applicant:
1) Will use disposal sites and recycling depots authorized
by the Board.
2) Will provide the opportunity to recycle as required by
Section 8. 01 of this ordinance and the terms of the franchise.
3) Is either:
a) Currently providing collection service in the
service area for which the applicant applies on
the effective date of this ordinance, whether or
not pursuant to a franchise or for direct com-
pensation, and has a majority of service customers
in such service area, which shall be evidenced by
a list of customers served and a map of the
service area; or
b) Applying for a service area that: ( i) has not
been franchised to another person, ( ii) has been
14 - ORDINANCE NO. 85- 037
VOL 70 FAvE
franchised to another person but is not being
served by the franchisee after notice and a
reasonable opportunity to do so, or ( iii) is not
being adequately served by a franchisee and has a
substantial demand from service customers for a
change in service to the area.
4) If applying for a collection franchise for all or a
part of a service area franchised to another person pursuant to
subsection ( 3) of this section, will have available on the first
day of such proposed service collection vehicles,
containers or
other equipment equal to that presently used by the current
franchisee in providing such service and that service would be
equal to or better than existing service.
Section 9. 05. SPECIFIC DISPOSAL FRANCHISE REQUIREMENTS.
1) An applicant for a disposal franchise shall submit a
duplicate of the information submitted to the Department of En-
vironmental Quality on a disposal site under ORS Chapter 459 and
rules promulgated thereunder.
2) An applicant for a disposal franchise shall demonstrate
to the satisfaction of the Board that the applicant will provide
a place for the deposit of recyclable material.
3) Each applicant for a disposal franchise shall supply a
plan for rehabilitation and use of the disposal site after dis-
posal has been terminated, and such use shall be a use permitted
within the zone in which such land is located. Such plan shall
be prepared at the scale of not less than one inch to 400 feet
with topographical contours, an interval of which shall be not
less than 25 feet. In the discretion of the Administrator or
Board, the applicant may be required to furnish a map showing
greater detail to determine compliance with this ordinance and
standards established by the Board. Amended plans may be
submitted for approval in the same manner as initial plans.
4) Where the land upon which a disposal site would be
located is privately owned, the owner of the land and the fran-
chise applicant shall, on forms furnished by the Administrator,
jointly and severally agree to authorize,
accept, and be re-
sponsible or liable for the following:
a) The entry upon the subject premises by persons
designated to administer this ordinance to
determine compliance with this ordinance and the
performance of the obligations of the franchisee
and the landowner.
b) Proper establishment, maintenance and operation of
the disposal site as required by this ordinance
and applicable provisions of ORS Chapter 459,
15 - ORDINANCE NO. 85- 037
va 70 PA,F126
rules promulgated thereunder and other applicable
laws or county ordinances.
c) Rehabilitation or restoration of the site upon
termination of disposal under the land use plan
submitted pursuant to subsection ( 2) of this sec-
tion or any amendment thereto.
d) The entry upon the subject premises by persons
designated by the Board to properly establish,
maintain, operate, rehabilitate or restore the
site where the landowner or franchisee does not
comply with the agreement executed pursuant to
this subsection after written notice and a reason-
able opportunity to comply as provided in section
9. 13 of this ordinance.
5) The Board may order the filing in the county deed re-
cords of the agreements executed pursuant to this section as a
recorded encumbrance on the real property to assure compliance
with the conditions and agreements.
Section 9. 06. EXPANSION OF COLLECTION FRANCHISE AREA. A
collection franchisee may apply to the Board to expand the
service area covered by its existing franchise, and the Board may
allow such expansion only if the following circumstances exist:
1) The proposed expansion of the franchisee' s service area
is the result of the development or placement of new residential
units, such as dwellings, mobile homes, motel rooms, etc., and
new collection service customers;
2) The proposed expansion of the franchisee' s service area
involves an area or premises immediately adjacent to the area or
premises covered by the franchisee' s existing franchise; and
3) The proposed expansion of the franchisee' s service area
involves an area or premises not within any other franchisee' s
service area.
Section 9. 07. REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS FOR FRANCHISES.
1) Administrator' s Review. Applications shall be reviewed
by the Administrator who shall make such investigation as the
Adminstrator deems appropriate and who may request assistance of
other persons as necessary.
2) Notice. Upon receipt of an application, the Admini-
strator shall give notice to the holder of or applicant for
another franchise for any part of the service area under
consideration, or whose existing or proposed disposal site would
likely be affected by the franchise application under
consideration.
16 - ORDINANCE NO. 85- 037
z '
VOL 70 PAGE127
3) Administrator' s Recommendation. Unless the time is
extended by the Board for good cause, the Administrator shall
make a recommendation on the franchise to the Committee within 30
days after the application and any required supplemental infor-
mation have been received.
4) Committee Action. The Committee:
a) Shall consider the application and the recom-
mendation of the Administrator at the next regular
meeting of the Committee or at a special meeting
called for the purpose.
b) May require additional investigation to be made or
information to be submitted.
c) May, after written notice to interested persons,
call an informational public hearing to permit
interested persons to testify orally or in writ-
ing.
d) Shall, upon the basis of the application, any
evidence or testimony submitted and the Admini-
strator' s recommendation, make a finding on the
qualifications of the applicant and a finding on
whether: ( i) additional area should be included,
ii) additional services should be provided, ( iii)
additional equipment, facilities, land or per-
sonnel should be provided, ( iv) conditions should
be imposed on collection, disposal, or recycling,
and, ( v) with respect to disposal sites, whether
the site may be integrated with existing private
or public sites and whether or not the site is an
economically feasible disposal site.
e) Shall, upon the basis of its findings, transmit
its recommendations to the Board to grant, deny,
modify or attach appropriate conditions to the
application and shall transmit to the Board such
recommendations within 30 days from the date of
the first meeting on the application.
Section 9. 08. BOARD ACTION ON APPLICATIONS FOR FRANCHISES.
1) Order on Application. The Board shall, upon the basis
of the application, the Adminstrator' s recommendation, the
Committee' s recommendation and such other information as is
before the Board, affirm, deny or modify the findings of the
Committee and make an order granting, denying or modifying the
application or attaching conditions thereto.
2) Additional Investigation. The Board may require
additional investigation by the Administrator or the Committee if
17 - ORDINANCE NO. 85- 037
70 PAGE127
it finds that there is insufficient information on which to base
its action.
3) Emergency Order. The Board shall not make an order
adverse to the applicant, or to the holder of or applicant for
another affected franchise, effective less than 30 days after the
date of such order and shall notify such persons in writing of
the order. The Board may suspend operation of this subsection
and enter an emergency order if it finds that there is an
immediate and serious danger to the public or that a health
hazard or public nuisance would be created by a delay.
Section 9. 09. TYPES OF FRANCHISES.
1) Joint Franchise. If, upon recommendation of the Com-
mittee, the Board finds that the applicant for a collection
franchise cannot provide complete service to a single customer, a
group or type of customers, or for a particular type or unusually
large quantity of recyclable material or solid waste, it may
issue a franchise for joint service with another person who can
provide supplemental service.
2) Exclusive Franchise. Where the Board finds that the
applicant is able to provide complete and adequate service of all
types within the defined service area, it shall issue an
exclusive franchise for that area to the applicant.
3) Temporary Franchise. Upon recommendation of the Ad-
ministrator and a finding by the Board that the need for service
justifies action before a complete investigation and final deter-
mination can be made, the Board may order the Administrator to
issue a temporary franchise, valid for a stated period not to
exceed six months, entitling a person to serve a defined service
area or customers for that period.
4) Subcontract. The Administrator may permit the
franchisee to subcontract for recycling service with another
person if the Administrator finds that the quality and extent of
service would not be jeopardized. The Administrator may require
the filing of additional information, and may request the recom-
mendation of the Committee on the subcontract. If the franchisee
enters into a subcontract pursuant to this section, the fran-
chisee remains responsible for the performance of the require-
ments of the franchise.
Section 9. 10. APPEAL FROM DETERMINATION OF BOARD ON
FRANCHISE.
1) Notice of Appeal. An applicant for a franchise or
other affected franchisees or franchise applicants may appeal an
adverse order of the Board by filing written notice of appeal
with the Board within 30 days of the date of the order.
18 - ORDINANCE NO. 85- 037
2 ) Effect of
entered, the filing
of the order until a
appeal.
VOL 70 FAGE12k
Notice. Unless an emergency order has been
of notice of appeal shall suspend operation
final determination by the Board on the
3) Public Hearing. The person appealing may request a
public hearing on the appeal. The Board, upon its own motion or
upon request, may set a public hearing to consider the appeal not
more than 30 days from the date of the notice of appeal.
4) Board Action. Board action on the appeal shall be
taken in the same manner as on a franchise application. The
determination of the Board on appeal shall be final.
5) Restriction on Reapplication. If the Board makes a
final order rejecting all or part of the application for a fran-
chise, the applicant may not submit another application contain-
ing all or a portion of the same service area or same disposal
site for a period of six months unless this provision is waived
by the Board upon a finding that the public interest requires
reconsideration within a shorter period of time.
Section 9. 11. FRANCHISE TERMS AND RENEWALS.
1) Collection Franchises. Unless the Board finds that a
longer or shorter term is required in the public interest, the
term of collection franchises shall be a continuing seven year
term. On January 1 of each year, the franchise will be renewed
for one year, unless the Board notifies the franchisee at least
30 days in advance of its intent not to renew the franchise.
Upon notice of intent not to renew, the term of the franchise
will be six years from the date of notice of termination.
Nothing in this section restricts the Board from suspending,
modifying, revoking or refusing to renew a franchise pursuant to
Section 9. 15 of this ordinance.
2) Disposal Franchise. The term of disposal franchises
shall be determined by the Board with the recommendation of the
Committee based upon site longevity, population to be served and
probable use after reclamation.
Section 9. 12. RESPONSIBILITIES OF FRANCHISEES.
1) Required Services. Franchisees shall furnish all ser-
vice authorized and required by the franchise and this ordinance,
at rates established by the Board, for the term of the franchise.
2) Discontinuance of Service. Except as provided in sub-
section ( 4) of this section, no franchisee shall voluntarily
discontinue service to any of the service area or at a disposal
site unless and until the franchisee has:
a) Given 90 days' written notice to affected cus-
tomers in the service area;
19 - ORDINANCE NO. 85- 037
VOL 70 FAGE13n
b) Posted 90 days' notice at the disposal site or
sites;
c) Given 90 days' written notice to the Admini-
strator; and
d) Obtained approval of the Board.
3) Complaints, Records and Audit. Franchisees shall:
a) Respond in writing to any written complaint on
service and report any unresolved complaint in
writing to the Administrator.
b) Keep accurate books and records which shall be
available during regular business hours for in-
spection and review by a qualified person desig-
nated by the Administrator. Records shall be
generated and maintained according to normal
accounting practices.
c) Obtain an audit of the franchisee' s books, at the
franchisee' s expense, if directed to do so by the
Board in connection with a franchise application,
an application for a rate adjustment, or the
determination and collection of a franchise fee.
4) Exceptions. Subsection ( 2) of this section shall not
apply to termination of service due to:
a) Damage, destruction or failure of equipment due to
an act of God;
b) Adverse weather which makes service impossible;
c) Change, restriction or termination of service when
required by any public agency, public body or
court having jurisdiction;
d) Customer refusal to pay for service in accordance
with rates established pursuant to this ordinance.
However collection franchisees may not discontinue
service under this paragraph without seven days'
prior written notice to the customer and to the
Administrator. Where service is terminated to a
customer for refusal to pay for service, the
franchisee may require a reasonable deposit to
guarantee payment for future services before
reinstating such service.
e) Transfer of franchises pursuant to Section 9. 18 of
this ordinance.
20 - ORDINANCE NO. 85- 037
VOL 70 FAGE131
f) A finding by the Adminstrator that service at the
particular location would jeopardize the safety of
the driver of a collection vehicle or of the
motoring public, that the customer has not pro-
vided reasonable access to the pickup point for
the containers storing solid waste or recyclable
materials without hazard or risk to the person
providing service, or that weather conditions
prevent service to the particular customer.
Section 9. 13. ENFORCEMENT AND CORRECTIVE ACTION. In addi-
tion to the remedy provided in Section 9. 15 and penalties pro-
vided elsewhere in this ordinance, the following action may be
taken:
1) Investigation. The Administrator, upon reasonable
cause, may make an investigation to determine if there has been a
violation of this ordinance, ORS Chapter 459 or rules or regu-
lations promulgated thereunder, or the franchise.
2) Notice of Violation. If, in the judgment of the Ad-
ministrator based upon investigation, there is sufficient
evidence to constitute a violation, the Administrator shall
notify the alleged violator, in writing, of the alleged violation
and what steps must be taken to cure the violation and to follow
the requirements set forth in the notice. The Administrator
shall send a copy of the notice to the Committee and may forward
a copy to the Board.
3) Response. The alleged violator shall provide a written
response to the notice within 10 days of receipt. The response
shall indicate whether the alleged violator agrees that there has
been a violation and whether, when and how corrective action will
be taken.
4) Committee Recommendations. If it appears that the
alleged violator is unable or refuses to cure the violation, the
Committee shall make a recommendation to the Board concerning
appropriate action. If the alleged violator is a franchisee, the
committee may recommend that the franchise be suspended, modified
or revoked or that it not be renewed, or that any conditions the
Committee deems appropriate be imposed.
5) Disposal Site Compliance Order. In the event that the
landowner or franchisee under a disposal franchise does not com-
ply with agreements executed pursuant to Section 9. 05 of this
ordinance within a reasonable time after written notice to com-
ply, the Board may institute proceedings under subsection ( 6) of
this section to enforce compliance. " Reasonable time" within
this subsection shall be the time determined by the Board to be
reasonable on the basis of the health, safety, and welfare of the
people of Deschutes County and of the area, giving due consid-
eration to the following factors:
21 - ORDINANCE NO. 85- 037
VOL / PAGE13
a) The nature of the deficiency.
b) Conditions created by the deficiency.
c) Hazards to health or safety.
d) Creation of a condition of unsightliness.
e) Creation of a public or private nuisance.
f) Whether there is a satisfactory alternative
practice, procedure or operation.
6) County Corrective Action. Upon failure of the land-
owner or franchisee to comply with the Board' s compliance order
within the time specified therein, the Board shall give 30 days'
written notice to the landowner or franchisee, or both, at their
last known addresses, that the County will carry out the neces-
sary corrective action at the landowner' s or franchisee' s ex-
pense. The Board may shorten the notice period to 24 hours if
the Board finds that there is an immediate and serious danger to
the public through creation of a health hazard or a public or
private nuisance.
7) Public Hearing. After notice, the Board shall hold a
public hearing at which all interested persons shall have the
right to be heard. After the public hearing and on the basis
thereof, the Board shall have the power to order appropriate
county agencies to correct the deficiencies in the establishment,
maintenance or operation of the site, or to make required rehab-
ilitation or restoration.
8) Costs of Corrective Action; Liens. If the cost incur-
red by the County in carrying out subsections ( 6) and ( 7) of this
section is not paid by the affected landowner or franchisee, the
Board may order appropriate action to be taken to impose a lien
upon the subject property.
Section 9. 14. PREVENTING INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE.
1) Notice; Hearing; Corrective Action. Whenever the Board
finds that a franchisee' s interruption or threatened interruption
of service would result in creation of a health hazard or a pub-
lic or private nuisance, the Board shall, after reasonable writ-
ten notice to the franchisee and the opportunity for a public
hearing if the franchisee requests such hearing, have the right
to authorize another franchisee or other qualified person to
provide service, or to use and operate the land, facilities or
equipment of the franchisee who has interrupted or threatened to
interrupt service, to provide service so long as such interrup-
tion continues.
2) Return of Property. Upon abatement of the actual or
threatened interruption, the County or other person shall return
22 - ORDINANCE NO. 85- 037
VOL 70 FACE133
all of the franchisee' s property in the same condition as when
taken, less reasonable wear, tear and use. All receipts shall be
returned to the franchisee, less costs of performing the service
during takeover and costs of abatement.
Section 9. 15. SUSPENSION, MODIFICATION, REVOCATION OR
REFUSAL TO RENEW FRANCHISE.
1) Grounds. Upon recommendation of the Committee or on the
Board' s own motion, the Board may suspend, modify, revoke or
refuse to renew a franchise upon finding that the franchisee has:
a) Wilfully violated this ordinance or ORS Chapter
459 or rules or regulations promulgated there-
under;
b) Made a material misrepresentation in any written
documents required to be submitted by the
franchisee;
c) Wilfully refused to provide service required by
this ordinance or the franchise, or to take any
corrective action required under Section 9. 13
after written notification and a reasonable op-
portunity to do so; or
d) Misrepresented the gross receipts from the fran-
chise service area or disposal site, or the
average occupancy within the service area, if such
reports are required to be submitted by this
ordinance or by order of the Board.
3) Effective Date; Emergency Order. If the Board, by
order, suspends, modifies, revokes or refuses to renew a fran-
chise, the action shall not become effective until 30 days after
the date of the order unless the Board finds that the order
should take effect earlier to prevent a serious and immediate
danger to the public health or a public nuisance.
4) Public Hearing. The affected franchisee may request a
public hearing before the Board on the order by filing a written
request for such hearing with the Board within 30 days after the
date of the order. Upon filing the request, the Board shall set
a time and place for a public hearing. Unless the Board makes
the finding described in subsection ( 2) of this section, the
Board' s action shall not take effect until after the public
hearing. The franchisee and other interested persons or affected
public agencies or bodies may submit oral or written evidence to
the Board relevant to the Board' s order.
5) Final Order. The Board shall, following the public
hearing and within 30 days thereafter, affirm, amend or rescind
its prior order. Subject to court appeal as provided in this
ordinance, the determination of the Board is final.
23 - ORDINANCE NO. 85- 037
Section 9. 16. FRANCHISE FEES.
1) Collection Franchise Fee.
a) Commercial Haulers. An annual franchise fee of 3%
of the gross receipts from providing service to
the franchise service area shall be paid to the Ad-
ministrator on the 30th day of January of each
year, accompanied by a sworn and verified state-
ment of such gross receipts. Each commercial
hauler collection franchisee shall maintain suffi-
cient books and records to accurately reflect the
gross receipts from the service area and shall
make such books and records available at reason-
able times and places for audit by authorized
personnel of Deschutes County. The Administrator
may specify reasonable requirements for keeping
such books and records. The Board may require an
audit of the franchiee' s books, at the fran-
chisee' s expense, to determine the accurancy of
the franchisee' s statement of gross receipts.
b) ( i) The annual franchise fee for non - commerical
haulers shall be 3% of the total annual cost of
collection service to all of the customers in the
service area. The " total annual cost of collec-
tion service" shall be the product of the number
of service customers multiplied by the minimum
monthly rate per customer which would be charged
by the commerical hauler franchisee serving the
surrounding or adjacent area, multiplied by twelve
12). The fee shall be paid to the Administrator
on the 30th day of January of each year.
ii) In the case of non- commercial haulers, such
as hotel and motel managers, who may not serve the
same number of customers each month, the number of
service customers to be used in the computation of
the annual franchise fee shall be the average
number of occupants of the affected residential or
rental units for the previous calendar year.
Average occupancy shall be determined by County
transient room tax returns, monthly rental re-
ceipts, or other similar records maintained by the
franchisee or the County. Each non- commercial
hauler collection franchisee shall maintain suffi-
cient books and records to accurately reflect
average occupancy in the service area and shall
make such books and records available at reason-
able times and places for audit by authorized
personnel of Deschutes County. The Administrator
may specify reasonable requirement for keeping
such books. The Board may require an audit of the
non - commerical hauler' s books, at the hauler' s
24 - ORDINANCE NO. 85- 037
VOL 70 PAGE135
expense, to determine the hauler' s average
occupancy.
2) Disposal Franchise Fee. An annual fee of $ 25. 00 shall
be paid to the Administrator on the 30th day of January of each
year.
Section 9. 17. USE OF FRANCHISE FEES. Fees
collected pursuant to Section 9. 16 of this ordinance shall be
paid into the General Fund. The committee may make recommen-
dations to the Board on a budget for the use of such funds to
carry out the provisions of this ordinance.
Section 9. 18. TRANSFER OF FRANCHISES.
1) Board Approval. No franchise or any interest therein
may be transferred or pledged as security without prior written
notice to and approval by the Board.
2) Application for Approval. A franchisee may apply to
the Board for approval to transfer or pledge the franchise.
3) Transfer. Upon recommendation of the Committee, the
Board may approve a transfer if it finds that the transferor has
no outstanding obligations to the County and the transferee meets
all applicable requirements for a franchise. The Board shall
approve or disapprove any application for transfer of a franchise
within 30 days of receipt of notice by the Board. The Board may
extend this time if it finds that there is a substantial question
of public health or safety involved which requires additional
time for investigation and decision.
4) Pledge as Security. Upon recommendation of the Com-
mittee, the Board may permit a franchise to be pledged as secu-
rity, but only for the purchase of land, equipment or facilities
needed to provide service, or to finance purchase of a business
providing service under this ordinance, and only if the fran-
chisee demonstrates to the Board' s satisfaction that such pledge
will not adversely affect the franchisee' s ability to carry out
the provisions of its franchise and this ordinance. The Board
may attach whatever conditions it deems appropriate to guarantee
maintenance of service.
ARTICLE VI. RATES FOR COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL SERVICE.
Section 10. 01. EXISTING RATES. Rates adopted by the Board
prior to the effective date of this ordinance shall remain in
effect until changed pursuant to this ordinance.
Section 10. 02. RATE STANDARDS.
1) The Board shall:
25 - ORDINANCE NO. 85- 037
It
t x *' r
VOL 70 PAGE136
a) Approve and establish reasonable and adequate
rates for collection and disposal franchises.
b) Establish collection rates which are uniform
either throughout the county or within zones,
based upon the length of haul to disposal sites or
depots, concentration of customers, and other
factors which may, in the opinion of the Board,
justify establishment of rate differentials. The
Board may establish rates which are lower for
customers who source - separate recyclable material
than the rates for customers who do not source -
separate. Collection rates for non- commercial
hauler collection franchisees shall be the same as
the rate charged by the commercial hauler collec-
tion franchisee serving the surrounding or
adjacent service area.
c) Establish rates for disposal sites that are uni-
form throughout the county, or different rates for
each site or class of sites.
d) Adjust rates pursuant to Section 10. 03 of this
ordinance.
e) Establish an interim rate when necessary until the
Board makes a final determination on the rate for
that type of service.
Section 10. 03. RATE ADJUSTMENTS.
1) Application for Rate Adjustment. When a franchisee
proposes to adjust one or more rates, the franchisee shall make
an application for rate adjustment on forms provided by the Ad-
ministrator. The application shall include all supporting in-
formation justifying the proposed rate adjustment, and any other
information requested by the Administrator.
2) Administrator' s Review? Review of Franchisee' s Books.
Upon receiving an application for a rate adjustment, the Ad-
ministrator shall review the application and supporting in-
formation, shall designate a qualified person confidentially to
review the books and records of the franchisee applicant, and
shall forward the application and supporting information to the
Committee.
3) Committee Review. Upon receiving the application for
rate adjustment, the Committee shall review the application and
supporting information, may hold an informational public hearing
on the proposed rate adjustment, and shall make a recommendation
to the Board regarding the proposal.
4) Upon receiving the Committee' s recommendation, the
Board may hold a public hearing on the proposed rate adjustment,
26 - ORDINANCE NO. 85- 037
VOL 70 PAGE13 7
shall review the application and the Committee' s recommendation,
and shall make a final determination granting, denying or
modifying the application for rate adjustment.
5) In determining whether to grant, deny or modify an
application for a rate adjustment, the Board may consider rates
charged by other persons performing the same or similar service
in the same or other areas, and shall give due consideration to
the following factors:
a) Changes in the cost of operation.
b) Current and projected revenues and expenses.
c) The investment in facilities and equipment.
d) The services of management.
e) Local wage scales.
f) The concentration of customers in the area served.
g) Methods of storage, collection, transportation,
disposal, salvage, recycling or reuse.
h) Net cost of providing the opportunity to recycle,
including the avoided cost of solid waste dipsosal
by recycling, education, promotion and notice
related to recycling.
i) Whether the franchisee provides incentives to
customers to source - separate recyclable material.
j) A reasonable return to the franchisee.
k) The length of haul to disposal facilities or
depots.
1) The cost of disposal.
m) The use of transfer stations or transfer systems
and the added costs.
n) The cost of alternate methods of disposal.
o) The future service demands of the service area or
disposal site which must be anticipated in equip-
ment, facilities, personnel or land.
p) Extra charges for special pickups or pickups on
days where service is not normally provided on a
collection route.
27 - ORDINANCE NO. 85- 037
VOL 70 PAGE138
q) Extra charges where the type or character of waste
or solid waste, including but not limited to
wastes with peculiarly offensive odors, requires
special handling or service.
r) Extra charges for providing janitorial services on
the premises where service is provided.
s) In addition, with respect to disposal sites, the
type of site, whether the site is open to the
public and the hours of operation, type of waste
disposed of and method of disposal.
t) Cost of compliance with laws, ordinances, regu-
lations and rules of public agencies or bodies
having jurisdiction.
u) Other factors which may, in the opinion of the
Committee and the Board, necessarily affect the
rates to be charged.
Section 10. 04. RATE PREFERENCES PROHIBITED.
1) No franchisee subject to rate regulation by this ordi-
nance shall give any rate preference to any person, locality or
type of solid waste stored, collected, transported or disposed.
2) Nothing in this section is intended to prevent:
a) The reasonable establishment of uniform classes of
rates based upon the type of waste collected,
transported, disposed of, reused, recycled or
recovered7 the number, type and location of
customers served; or upon other factors, as long
as such rates are reasonably based upon costs of
the particular service and are approved by the
Board in the same manner as other rates.
b) The reduction in rates charged to persons who
source - separate recyclable material. However, the
rate charged to a person who recycles shall not be
greater than that charged to a person who does not
source - separate materials for recycling.
c) Any franchisee from volunteering service at re-
duced or no cost for a charitable, community,
civic or benevolent purpose.
Section 10. 05. RESPONSIBILITY FOR PAYMENT OF CHARGES FOR
SERVICE. Any person who receives service shall be responsible
for payment for such service. The landlord of any premises shall
be responsible for payment for service provided to that premises
if the tenant does not pay for the service.
28 - ORDINANCE NO. 85- 037
n Ut. i. 19,
f V r­
Section 10. 06. FRANCHISEE BILLINGS TO CUSTOMERS. Billings
to customers of collection and disposal franchisees shall be
based upon the rates adopted pursuant to this ordinance. If the
billing is itemized, each item shall accurately reflect the
documented actual rate or cost for that item. The Administrator
may inspect the franchisee' s books to determine the accuracy of
itemized billings.
ARTICLE VII. REGIONAL COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL.
Section 11. 01. AGREEMENTS FOR JOINT FRANCHISING OR PLANNING.
The Board may enter into agreements with any city or county for
joint or regional franchising of collection, recycling or dis-
posal service or planning for regional solid waste management.
Section 11. 02. AGREEMENTS FOR ALLOCATION OF FRANCHISE FEES.
The Board may enter into agreements with any city or county pro-
viding for the allocation of franchise fees where franchise ser-
vice areas cross city or county boundaries.
Section 11. 03. COMMERCIAL HAULING AND SELF - HAULING DISPOSAL
REGULATION AND FEES. The Board may require any franchisee or
other person to apply to the Public Works Department for a permit
before hauling and placing any solid waste in any landfill or
sanitary landfill in Deschutes County. Upon recommendation of
the Committee, the Board may adopt or modify landfill disposal
fees.
ARTICLE VIII. SOLID WASTE NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
Section 12. 01. CREATION OF NUISANCE BY ACCUMULATION OR
UNAUTHORIZED DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE.
1) Solid Waste Accumulation. Except as otherwise author-
ized under this ordinance, no person shall store, collect, main-
tain or display on private property, waste or solid waste that is
offensive or hazardous to the health and safety of the public or
which creates offensive odors or a condition of unsightliness.
Storage, collection, maintenance or display of waste or solid
waste in violation of this section is declared to be a public
nuisance which may be abated as provided in section 12. 02 of this
ordinance.
2) Unauthorized Disposal. Except as provided in Section
5. 02 of this ordinance and in the definition of " Disposal Site"
in Section 4. 01 of this ordinance, no person shall use or permit
to be used any land within the County as a public or private
disposal site without approval of the Board. The disposal of
waste or solid waste in or upon such land is declared to be a
public nuisance which may be abated as provided in Section 12. 02
of this ordinance.
29 - ORDINANCE NO. 85- 037
r
r, VOL 70 PAGE140
Section 12. 02. ABATEMENT OF SOLID WASTE NUISANCES.
1) Investigation. The Administrator, with or without a
written and signed complaint of any person, public agency or
public body, may investigate to determine whether a nuisance
exists under section 12. 01 of this ordinance. The Administrator
may reqest the assistance of the Deschutes County Sheriff for the
purpose of conducting an investigation.
2) Notice of Violation. After investigation, if the Ad-
ministrator finds reasonable cause to believe a nuisance exists,
the Administrator shall give written notice thereof to the Board
and to the alleged violator as provided in subsection ( 3) of this
section.
3) Show Cause. The Board may order that a notice be is-
sued and served upon the owner, tenant, occupant or person in
possession of the property or premises where the nuisance is
alleged to exist, describing the alleged nuisance and requiring
such person or persons to appear before the Board at the time and
place stated in the notice to show cause why a nuisance should
not be declared to exist. Unless the Board finds that there is
an immediate and serious hazard to the health or safety of the
public, the time set for the hearing shall not be less than 15
nor more than 40 days from the date of notice.
4) Public Hearing. At the time and place described in the
notice, the Board shall conduct a public hearing on the existence
of the alleged nuisance. The Administrator shall report the
findings from the investigation, and may submit evidence and the
testimony of witnesses. The persons served with notice shall be
permitted to cross- examine the Administrator or the Administra-
tor' s witnesses and may present evidence and call witnesses. Any
interested person, public agency or public body who requests the
opportunity shall be heard, subject to the right of the persons
served with notice to cross- examine.
5) Declaration of Nuisance. If the Board finds from the
record at the public hearing that a nuisance exists, it shall
declare the existence of a nuisance.
6) Order of Abatement. If a nuisance is declared, the
Board may order all responsible persons who were notified to
abate the nuisance within a reasonable time set by the Board.
Section 12. 03. CIVIL ACTION TO ABATE NUISANCES.
1) If a nuisance is declared to exist under Section 12. 02
of this ordinance and is not abated by the responsible persons,
the Board may:
a) Order a civil action to be brought in the name of
the County for its abatement.
30 - ORDINANCE NO. 85- 037
VOL 70 FADE141
b) Where a writ of abatement from an appropriate
court is obtained, remove from the subject prop-
erty or premises the waste or solid waste found to
be the cause of such nuisance. The cost of such
collection shall be paid by the person or persons
found by the Board and the Court to be responsible
for the creation or maintenance of the nuisance
and shall be a lien upon said property or premises
until paid. The County or its agents shall not be
liable for any trespass to, or conversion of, any
real or personal property reasonably required in
removing said waste or solid waste.
2) The provisions of this section are in addition to and
not in lieu of the penalties provided in section 13. 04 of this
ordinance.
Section 12. 04. UNAUTHORIZED DISPOSAL. No person shall dis-
pose of solid waste on or in any property or premises subject to
this ordinance of which such person is not the owner, occupant or
person entitled to possession, or which is not a disposal site
approved by the Board.
Section 12. 05. TRANSPORTATION OF SOLID WASTE. No person
shall transport waste or solid waste in or on a motor vehicle or
trailer upon a public road unless such waste or solid waste is:
1) Covered on the sides, top and bottom with a cover se-
cured to the vehicle or trailer; or
2) Securely tied to the vehicle or trailer in such a way
that such waste or solid waste is unlikely to sift, leak or other-
wise escape therefrom.
ARTICLE IX. APPEALS, ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
Section 13. 01. APPEALS FROM DECISIONS OF THE BOARD. All
decisions of the Board under this ordinance shall be reviewable
by the Circuit Court of the State of Oregon for the County of
Deschutes.
Section 13. 02. APPEALS FROM DECISIONS OF THE ADMINISTRATOR.
The Board, upon its own motion or upon the request of an inter-
ested person or affected public agency or public body, may review
the decisions of the Administrator made pursuant to this ordin-
ance and may uphold, modify, rescind or leave standing the
decision of the Administrator. The Board may hold a public
hearing with notice to interested persons, public agencies or
public bodies to review a decision of the Administrator.
Section 13. 03. ENFORCEMENT.
Board to enforce this ordinance.
31 - ORDINANCE NO. 85- 037
It shall be the duty of the
Section 13. 04. PENALTIES.
VOL ? Q FACE142
1) Any violation of sections 8. 04, 9. 01, 10. 01, 12. 01,
12. 04 or 12. 05 of this ordinance shall be deemed to be a mis-
demeanor and shall be punishable upon conviction by a fine of not
more than $ 500 or by imprisonment in the County jail for not more
than six months, or both.
2) Each day a violation described in subsection ( 1) of
this section continues constitutes a separate offense.
ARTICLE X. CONSTRUCTION, REPEAL OF CONFLICTING
ORDINANCES, EFFECTIVE DATE AND EMERGENCY
CLAUSE.
Section 14. 01. CONSTRUCTION. ( 1) Titles. The titles in
this ordinance are not a part of the contents or provisions of
this ordinance, but are solely for purposes of reference.
2) Severability. Any finding by any court of competent
jurisdiction that any portion of this ordinance is unconsti-
tutional or invalid shall not invalidate any other portion of
this ordinance.
Section 14. 02. REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES. Ordinance
CG - 4 and all amendments thereto, and any portions of any other
ordinance previously enacted by the County which are inconsistent
with the provisions of this ordinance, are hereby repealed.
Section 14. 03. EMERGENCY CLAUSE AND EFFECTIVE DATE. This
ordinance being necessary for the immediate preservation of the
public peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to
exist, and this ordinance takes
jefffect
on January 1, 1986.
tk
DATED this / 0 d y of ' 1985.
ATTEST:
Recording Secretary
32 - ORDINANCE NO. 85- 037
I
OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
CHUTES C NTY, OREGON
LAURLYDICE AX TUTTL , Chairman
LOIS BRISTOV RNANTE, Commissioner
LIN, Commissioner