l r
ti
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESC i, jOREGON
An Ordinance Amending Title 18 of the Deschutes
County Code, the DeschutesCounty Zoning
Ordinance, As Amended, to Amend Section *,_
18.48.020, and Declaring an Emergency.
ORDINANCE NO. 97- 023
WHEREAS, Ordinance 93-043 amended all of the underlying zones under Title 18, except the
Open Space and Conservation Zone, to include Class I, H and III Road Projects as a permitted or
conditional use; and
WHEREAS, the DeschutesCounty Planning Commission recommendedapproval of the proposed
change; and
WHEREAS, a hearing was held, after notice given in accordancewith law, before the Board of
County Commissioners; now therefore
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON,
ORDAINS as follows:
Section 1. Amendment. Section 18. 48. 020 of Title 18 is amended to read:
18. 48. 20. Uses permitted outright.
The following usesandtheir accessoryusesare permitted outright:
A. Farm use as defined in Oregon Revised Statutes 215. 203( 2).
B. Public and nonprofit agencies, museums and exhibits on lands where an
exception has been granted in accordance with Oregon Administrative Rules
chapter 660, Division 4.
C. Public wildlife reserve or management area, not including structures.
D. Class I and II road or street project subject to approval as part of a land
partition, subdivision or subject to the standards and criteria established by
Section 18. 116. 230.
E. Class III road or street project. ( Ord. 94- 041 § 1, 1994; Ord. 91- 020 $ 1,
1991)
Section 2. Severability. The provisions of this ordinance are severable. If any section,
sentence, clauseor phraseof this ordinance is adjudgedto be invalid by a court of competentjurisdiction,
that decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance.
KP N HED
PAGE 1 - ORDINANCE NO. 97- 023 ( 03/ 19/ 97)
A ® 1gg7
2 Jf
0156- 2352
Section 3. Codification. County Legal Counsel shall have the authority to format the
provisions contained herein in a manner that will integrate them into the County Code consistent with the
Deschutes County Form and Style Manual for Board Documents. Such codification shall include the
authority to make such changes, to make changesin numbering systems and to make such numbering
changes consistent with interrelated code sections. In addition, as part of codification of these ordinances,
County Legal Counsel may insert appropriate legislative history reference. Any legislative history
references included herein are not adopted as part of the substance of this ordinance, but are included for
administrative convenience and as a reference. They may be changedto correct errors and to conform to
proper style without action of the Board of County Commissioners.
Section 4. Repeal of Ordinances as Affecting Existing Liabilities. The repeal, express or
implied, of any ordinance, ordinance provision, code section, or any map or any line on a map
incorporated therein by reference, by this amending ordinance shall not release or extinguish any duty,
condition, penalty, forfeiture, or liability previously incurred or that may hereafter be incurred under such
ordinance, unless a provision of this amending ordinance shall so expressly provide, and such ordinance
repealed shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purpose of sustaining any proper action or
prosecution for the enforcement of such duty, condition, penalty, forfeiture, or liability, and for the
purpose of authorizing the prosecution, conviction and punishment of the person or persons who
previously violated the repealed ordinance.
Section 5. Emergency. This ordinancebeingnecessaryfor the immediatepreservationof the
public peace, healthand safety, an emergencyis declaredto exist, andthis ordinancetakeseffect on its
passage.
DATEDthis _Lj_ dayofMA,, d , , 1997.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
Ot DESCHtrfAS COUNTY, OREGON
Chair
i - I v , d
ATTEST: RO RT L. NIPPER, Commig 1 her
Recording Secretary LINDA L. SWE GEN, ssioner
PAGE 2 - ORDINANCE NO. 97- 023 ( 03/ 19/ 97)