89- 03828
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DE
An Ordinance Amending Ordi-
nance No. PL - 15, the Deschutes*
County Zoning Ordinance of
1979, as Amended, Revising
Provisions Concerning Manu-
factured Housing and Mobile
Homes, Providing for a Sunset
Clause and Declaring an
Emergency.
ORDINANCE NO. 89- 004
REVIEWED
LEGA CCUNSEL
00950630
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY,
OREGON, ORDAINS as follows:
Section 1. Section 1. 030, Definitions, Ordinance No. PL - 15,
Deschutes County Zoning Ordinance of 1979, as amended, is further
amended to read as follows:
68. Manufactured Home. A structure, transportable in
one or more sections, which, when erected on a site, is
seven hundred ( 700) or more square feet in area, and
which is built on a permanent chassis, and designed to
be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities,
and includes plumbing, heating and electrical systems
therein. A manufactured home is a home built on or
after June 15, 1976, to the standards and requirements
of the National Manufactured Construction and Safety
Standards Act of 1974.
68A. Manufactured Home Park. Any place where two or
more manufactured homes are parked within 500 feet of
one another on a lot, tract or parcel of land under the
same ownership, the primary purpose of which is to rent
space or keep space for rent to any person for a charge
or fee paid or to be paid for the rental or use of
facilities or to offer space free in connection with
securing the trade or patronage of such person.
68B. Manufactured Home Subdivision. A subdivision
intended to be occupied primarily or exclusively by
manufactured homes.
69. Mobile Home. A vehicle or structure constructed
for movement on the public highways, that is five
hundred ( 500) or more square feet in area, has sleep-
ing, cooking and plumbing facilities, is intended for
human occupancy and which was built in accordance with
the appropriate Mobile Home Code in effect at the time
of construction. " Single - wide" mobile home means a
KEYPUN , ORDINANCE NO. 89- 004
MICROFILMED
MAR - 1 1989
0095 0631
mobile home which consists of a single, separately
constructed section, excluding accessory buildings or
structures. " Double - wide" mobile home is a mobile
home consisting of two or more separately constructed
sections designed to be attached directly to each
other.
69A. Mobile Home Park. Any place where two or more
mobile homes are parked within 500 feet of one another
on a lot, tract or parcel of land under the same
ownership , the primary purpose of which is to rent
space or keep space for rent to any person for a charge
or fee paid or to be paid for the rental or use of
facilities or to offer space free in connection with
securing the trade or patronage of such person.
99A. Ramada. A stationary structure having a roof
extending over a mobile home or trailer, which may also
extend over a patio or parking space for motor vehi-
cles, and is used primarily for protection from sun
and rain."
Section 2. Section 1. 030( 92), " Prefabricated House",
Ordinance No. P1- 15, Deschutes County Zoning Ordinance of 1979,
as amended, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. Sections 5. 100, 5. 110, 5. 120, 5. 130, 5. 140 and
8. 090, Ordinance No. PL - 15, Deschutes County zoning Ordinance of
1979, as amended, are hereby repealed.
Section 4. Section 5. 150, Deschutes County Zoning Ordinance
of 1979, as amended, is further amended to read as follows:
A Mobile Home or Manufactured Home as a Temporary
Residence on an Individual Lot. A mobile home or
manufactured home may be authorized as a temporary
residence on an individual lot and shall comply with
the following additional provisions:
1. The mobile home or manufactured home shall be
placed upon a lot for which a building permit for
a housing unit has been obtained.
2. The mobile home or manufactured home shall be
occupied only during a period in which satisfact-
ory progress is being made toward the completion
of the housing unit on the same site.
3. Electric, water and sewer utility connections
shall be made to the mobile home or manufactured
home.
2 - ORDINANCE NO. 89- 004
0095 0632
114. The mobile home or manufactured home shall be
removed from the lot not later than eighteen
months following the date on which the building
permit for the housing unit is issued or not later
than two months following the completion of the
housing unit, whichever occurs first.
115. All evidence that the mobile home or manufactured
home has been on the lot shall be removed within
the thirty ( 30) days following the removal of the
mobile home or manufactured home."
Section 5. Article V, Supplementary Provisions, Ordinance
No. PL - 15, Deschutes County Zoning Ordinance of 1979, as amended,
is further amended to add the following:
Section 5. 095. MANUFACTURED HOME DESIGN CRI-
TERIA. A manufactured home is one which meets all of
the following design criteria:
111. has a minimum size of seven hundred ( 700) square
feet, excluding tipouts, hitches, etc.;
2. is sited on a permanent foundation or support
skirting system as described in Section 5. 115 of
this Ordinance;
113. has wheels, axles and hitch mechanisms removed;
4. was manufactured in accordance with Oregon Depart-
ment of Commerce requirements and manufacturer' s
specifications;
115. has siding material of a type customarily used on
site - constructed residences, such as clapboard,
horizontal vinyl lap - siding, horizontal aluminum
lap - siding, cedar or other wood siding, brick or
stone, and not including high - gloss finished
material, corrugated metal or fiberglass, or metal
or plastic panels;
116. has roofing materials of a type customarily used
on site - constructed residences, including wood
shakes or shingles, asphalt or fiberglass
shingles, corrugated mat finish colored metal, and
tile materials, but not including high - gloss
corrugated aluminum or fiberglass panels;
7. has a roof pitch of at least two in twelve or
greater; and
8. is in good repair and free of structural, mechani-
cal, electrical and plumbing defects."
3 - ORDINANCE NO. 89- 004
0095 C633
Section 5. 105. MOBILE HOME DESIGN CRITERIA. A
mobile home is one which meets all of the following
design criteria:
1. has a minimum area of 500 square feet, excluding
tipouts and hitches;
2. was manufactured in accordance with the State
Mobile Home Code, if any, in effect at the time of
construction;
113. is placed on a permanent foundation or support
system with skirting, as described in Section
5. 125 of this Ordinance;
114. has utilities connected in accordance with manu-
facturer' s specifications and Oregon Department of
Commerce requirements; and
115. is in good repair and free of structural, mechani-
cal and plumbing defects, any of which must be
corrected prior to placement."
Section 5. 115. MANUFACTURED HOME INSTALLATION
STANDARDS. Manufactured homes shall meet the following
installation standards:
111. Permanent Foundation With Enclosed Perimeter. If
a manufactured home is to be placed on a permanent
foundation with perimeter enclosure, it must be
set onto an excavated area, with foundations,
footings and crawl space or basement walls con-
structed in accordance with Oregon Department of
Commerce standards. The space between the floor
joists of the home and the excavated underfloor
grade shall be completely enclosed with the
permanent perimeter enclosure, except for required
openings.
2. Support System With Skirting. All manufactured
homes without a permanent foundation and perimeter
enclosure shall have an approved support system
with skirting enclosing the entire perimeter of
the home. Skirting and back- up framing shall be
of weather - resistant or self - extinguishing mate-
rials, which blend with or match the exterior
siding of the home. Below grade, the materials
shall be unaffected by decay or oxidation. The
skirting shall be installed in accordance with
manufacturer' s recommendations or approved equal
standards. The skirting shall be one- half ventil-
ated by openings, and such openings shall be a net
area of not less than one and one- half ( 1 1/ 2)
4 - ORDINANCE NO. 89- 004
0095 0634
square feet for each twenty- five ( 25) linear feet
of exterior perimeter. The openings shall be
covered with corrosion resistant wire mesh or
approved ventilation panels not larger than one
half ( 1/ 2) inch in any dimension. The underfloor
area shall be provided with an eighteen ( 18) inch
by twenty- four ( 24) inch minimum size access crawl
hole, which shall not be blocked by pipes, ducts
or other construction interfering with the acces-
sibility of the underfloor space, or another
approved access mechanism.
3. Accessory Structures:
a. Accessory structures ( garages, carports
and sheds) are allowed for all manufac-
tured housing.
b. Ramadas and snow roofs shall be con-
structed of any material.
C. Accessory structures such as decks,
porches, awnings, steps and carports are
permitted subject to meeting current
state building code requirements ( no
size limit) and design criteria for
manufactured housing, as set forth in
this Section.
d. Additional living area may be added to a
manufactured home but must meet the
current state building codes and satisfy
the design criteria for manufactured
housing."
Section 5. 125. MOBILE HOME INSTALLATION STAN-
DARDS.
1. Permanent Foundation With Enclosed Perimeter. If
a mobile home is to be placed on a permanent
foundation with perimeter enclosure, it must be
set onto an excavated area, with foundations,
footings and crawl space or basement walls con-
structed in accordance with Oregon Department of
Commerce standards. The space between the floor
joists of the home and the excavated underfloor
grade shall be completely enclosed with the
permanent perimeter enclosure, except for required
openings.
2. Support System With Skirting. All mobile homes
without a permanent foundation and perimeter
enclosure shall have an approved support system
5 - ORDINANCE NO. 89- 004
0095 0635
with skirting enclosing the entire perimeter of
the home. Skirting and back- up framing shall be
of weather - resistant or self - extinguishing mate-
rials, which blend with or match the exterior
siding of the home. Below grade, the materials
shall be unaffected by decay or oxidation. The
skirting shall be installed in accordance with
manufacturer' s recommendations or approved equal
standards. The skirting shall be one- half ventil-
ated by openings, and such openings shall be a net
area of not less than one and one- half ( 1 1/ 2)
square feet for each twenty- five ( 25) linear feet
of exterior perimeter. The openings shall be
covered with corrosion resistant wire mesh not
larger than one half ( 1/ 2) inch in any dimension.
The underfloor area shall be provided with an
eighteen ( 18) inch by twenty- four ( 24) inch
minimum size access crawl hole, which shall not be
blocked by pipes, ducts or other construction
interfering with the accessibility of the under-
floor space, or another approved access mechanism.
3. Accessory Structures:
a. Accessory structures ( garages, carports
and sheds) are allowed for all mobile
housing.
b. Ramadas and snow roofs shall be con-
structed of any material.
C. Accessory structures such as decks,
porches, awnings, steps and carports are
permitted subject to meeting current
state building code requirements ( no
size limit) and design criteria for
mobile housing, as set forth in this
Section.
d. Additional living area may be added to a
mobile home but must meet the current
state building codes and satisfy the
design criteria for mobile housing."
Section 5. 135. PLACEMENT STANDARDS FOR
MANUFACTURED HOMES AND CERTAIN DOUBLE - WIDE MOBILE
HOMES.
1. Placement of manufactured homes and double - wide
mobile homes over seven hundred ( 700) square feet
in size shall be permitted as follows:
6 - ORDINANCE NO. 89- 004
0095 0636
a. In the following zones, except where there is
a Conventional Housing Overlay Zone ( CH):
EFU- 320, EFU- 80, EFU- 40, EFU- 20, MUA- 10, F- 2,
F- 3, RR - 10, RSC, RSR - M, RSR - 5 as the primary
dwelling, and R - I as a caretaker' s residence.
b. In manufactured home parks and subdivi-
sions.
C. As permitted in Sections 5. 150 and 5. 155
of this Ordinance.
2. Manufactured homes and double - wide mobile homes
are not permitted in any historic district or on
any historic site."
Section 5. 145. PLACEMENT STANDARDS FOR SINGLE -
WIDE AND CERTAIN DOUBLE - WIDE MOBILE HOMES.
1. Placement of single - wide mobile homes and double -
wide mobile homes less than seven hundred ( 700)
square feet in size shall be permitted as follows:
a. on parcels ten ( 10) acres in size or
larger;
b. in subdivisions where more than 45% of
the total number of lots in the sub-
division ( including all developed and
undeveloped lots in all parts, phases
and units), have either single - wide or
larger mobile homes currently located
upon them;
C. in subdivisions where more than 60% of
the total number of lots with dwellings
currently located upon them have either
single - wide or larger mobile homes;
d. as a secondary accessory farm dwelling;
e. in mobile home parks and subdivisions;
f. as a temporary use, with a temporary use
permit under Ordinance No. 88- 005;
g. as a replacement for a mobile home
destroyed by fire or other natural act;
h. as an upgrade of an existing mobile
home; and
7 - ORDINANCE NO. 89- 004
Q095 063
i. as permitted in Sections 5. 150 and 5. 155
of this Ordinance.
2. Mobile homes are not permitted in any historic
district or on any historic site."
Section 5. 155. A MOBILE HOME OR MANUFACTURED
HOME AS A TEMPORARY RESIDENCE FOR MEDICAL CONDITION.
111. A temporary use permit for a mobile home or
manufactured home in a residential area may be
granted when a medical condition exists which
requires the temporary location of a mobile home
or manufactured home on the property in order to
provide necessary care for a member of the prin-
cipal occupant' s family. Such medical condition
must be verified by a doctor' s written statement,
which shall accompany the permit application.
2. The temporary use permit shall be reviewed
annually for compliance with the terms of this
section.
3. The mobile home shall be removed not later than
ninety ( 90) days following the date the medical
condition requiring the temporary use permit
ceases to exist."
Section 6. Except for the amendments contained in this
Ordinance to Sections 5. 150 and 5. 155 of Ordinance No. PL - 15, not
later than September 1990, the Board of County Commissioners
shall review this Ordinance, hold a public hearing, and determine
whether a public need exists to continue this Ordinance.
Section 7. This Ordinance being necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health and safety, an emergency
is declared to exist, and this Ordinance takes effect on its
passage.
DATED this
oVlt
day of , 1989.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
OF D : SCH17ES COUNTIY, OREGON
PRANTE, Chair
ATT T : tOMI T QOP . Co is s Toner
Recording Secretary EfICK MAUDLIN, mmissioner
8 - ORDINANCE NO. 89- 004