REVIEWED AS TO FORM REVIEWED
RL: iY ` f7c i? wJ
CODE REVIEW COMM.
01V3: 2or
LEGAL CC} UNSfL
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
An Ordinance Amending Chapter 18.88,
Wildlife Area Combining Zone, and * u,
Chapter 18. 128, Conditional Use, of Title * °°
18of the DeschutesCounty Code, and
Declaring anEmergency.-
Cr-
Fart :: c
ORDINANCE NO. 98- 013 flo
c
cJ' t
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTE9 COUNTY,
OREGON, ORDAINS as follows:
Section 1. AMENDMENT. Section 18.88.040, Uses permitted conditionally, is
amended to read as described in Exhibit " A," attached hereto and incorporated herein, with new
language underlined and language to be deleted in sttike 4ffough.
Section 2. AMENDMENT. Subsection 18. 128. 040( D), Church, hospital, nursing
home, convalescent home, retirement home, is amended to read as described in Exhibit " B,"
attached hereto and incorporated herein, with new language underlined and language to be deleted
in sttike- thfo .
Section 3. AMENDMENT. Subsection 18. 128. 040( E), Medical clinic, veterinary
clinic, club, lodge, fraternal organization, community center, grangehall, golf course, horse stable
and horse events requiring conditional uses, grounds and buildings for games or sports, country
club, swimming, boating, tennis clubs and similar uses, governmentstructuresand land uses, parks,
playgrounds, is amended to read as described in Exhibit " C," attached hereto and incorporated
herein, with new language underlined and language to be deleted in stile.
Section 4. AMENDMENT. Subsection 18. 128. 040( 0), Schools, is amended to read as
described in Exhibit " D," attached hereto and incorporated herein, with new language underlined
and language to be deleted in sttike .
Section 5. AMENDMENT. Subsection 18. 128. 040( AA), Bed and breakfast inn, is
amended to read as described in Exhibit " E," attached hereto and incorporated herein, with new
language underlined.
Section 6. FINDINGS. Findings to support this ordinance are set forth in the staff
report attached hereto as Exhibit " F," incorporated herein by this reference.
KEYrJE998i:
Pf;  ED
PAGE 1 oft - ORDINANCE NO. 98- 013 ( 1/ 28/ 98) 98
0163- 2092
Section 7. This Ordinance being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, an emergencyis declared to exist, and this Ordinancetakes effect on its
passage.
DATED this 2 day of lJ V , 1998.
ATTEST:
Marlin
PAGE 2 oft - ORDINANCE NO. 98- 013 ( 1/ 28/ 98)
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
DESCH S CO TY, OREGON
ROBF# f L. NIPPER, CommissTdfier
INDA L. S A E , Commissioner
EXHIBIT " A"
18.88.040. Uses permitted conditionally.
A. Except as provided in subsection ( B) of
this section, in a zone with which the WA Zone
is combined, the conditional uses permitted shall
be those permitted conditionally by the
underlying zone subject to the provisions of the
Comprehensive Plan, chapter section 18. 128 of
this title and other applicable sections of this
title.
B. The following uses are not permitted in
that portion of the WA Zone designated as deer
winter ranges, significant elk habitat or antelope
range: as eanditional uses.
1. Golf course, not included in a
destination resort;
2. Commercial dog kennel;
3. Church;
4. Public or private school;
5. Bed and breakfast inn;
6. Dude ranch;
7. Playground, recreation facility or
community center owned and operated by a
government agency or a nonprofit community
organization;
8. Timeshare unit;
9. Veterinary clinic;
10. Fishing lodge.
C. The following uses are permitted in that
portion of the WA zone designated as the
Bend/ La Pine Deer Migration Corridor as
conditional uses:
1. Church;
2. Public or private school;
3. Bed and breakfast inn;
4. Playground, recreation facility or
community center owned and operated by a
government agency or a nonprofit community
organization,
D. Use limitations. The uses listed in
subsection ( C) of this section are subject to the
applicable provisions of chapters 18. 116 and
18. 124 of this title and the following criteria:
1. The parcel shall be zoned RR - 10;
2. The parcel shall be located within one-
guarter mile of a rural service center and be
located adjacent to a rural collector or a rural
arterial identified on the Deschutes County
Transportation Plan;
3. The parcel shall be no less than one acre
and no more than 5 acres in size;
4. The parcel shall be farther than 100 feet
from identified wetlands, floodplains or riparian
areas.
0163= 2093
5. The property shall be outside areas
designated as " Existing High Use Migration
Areas" or " Important Connective Areas Through
Existing Developed Areas" on the 1997 ODFW
map submitted to the South County Regional
Problem Solving Group.
6. Fences developed as part of the
conditional uses listed in subsection ( C) of this
section shall be built from posts and poles or
smooth wire and shall have a minimum bottom
pole or wire height of 18 inches from therg ound
and a maximum top pole or wire height of 40
inches from the ground. Fences exempted from
these standards shall be constructed in
accordance with the provisions of subsection
18. 88. 070( B) of this chapter.
EE. Expansion of any use listed in
subsection tB) of this section that was lawfully
established prior to August 5, 1992, is allowed,
subject to provisions of Title 18 applicable to the
establishment of such uses. Expansion of golf
courses under this subsection shall be limited to
a final size of 18 holes.
ED. An application for a destination resort,
or any portion thereof, in a Wildlife Area
Combining Zone shall not be accepted pending
completion of the County' s Goal 8 Destination
resort mapping process. ( Ord. 98- 013 § 1, 1998;
Ord. 95- 075 § 1, 1995; Ord. 95- 001 § 3, 1995;
Ord. 92- 042 § 1, 1992)
PAGE 1 of 1 — EXHIBIT " A" to ORDINANCE 98- 013 ( 1/ 28/ 98)
EXHIBIT ` B" 0163'-`2094
F.T. S7
D. Church, hospital, nursing home,
convalescent home, retirement home:
1. Such a use shall be authorized as a
conditional use only upon finding that sufficient
area is provided for the building, required yards
and off- street parking. Related structures and
uses such as a manse, parochial school or parish
house are considered separate uses and
additional lot areas shall be required therefore.
2. The applicant shall address the
following issuesin the application:
a. Location of the site relative to the
service area.
b. Probable growth and needs thereof.
c. Site location relative to land uses in the
vicinity.
d. Conformity with Deschutes County
Road PublieWeFks Department standards for of
proposed access to and from principal streets
and the probable effect of the proposal on the
traffic volume of adjoining and nearby streets.
3. Such uses or related buildings shall be at
least 30 feet from a side or rear lot line.
4. Except in an A -H zone, such uses may
be built to exceed the height limitations of the
zone in which it is located to a maximum height
of 50 feet if the total floor area of the building
does not exceed the area of the site and if the
yard dimensions in each case are equal to at least
two- thirds of the height of the principal
structure.
5. Churches in the Wildlife Area
Combining Zone are subject to the provisions of
chapter 18. 88 of this title. ( Ord. 98- 013 § 2,
1998)
PAGE 1 of 1 — EXHIBIT " B" to ORDINANCE 98- 013 ( 1/ 28/ 98)
EXHIBIT " C" 01 % - 2oz
E. Medical clinic, veterinary clinic, club,
lodge, fraternal organization, community center,
grange hall, golf course, horse stable and horse
events requiring conditional uses, grounds and
buildings for games or sports, country club,
swimming, boating, tennis clubs and similar
activities, government structures and land uses,
parks, playgrounds. In considering the above,
the Planning Director or Hearings Body may
authorize the conditional use after it has been
determined that the following will be provided:
1. Access from principal streets subject to
Deschutes County Road D„ beWeFts
Department standards.
2. Off- street parking subject to section
18. 116. 030 of this title.
3. Building and site design provisions,
including landscaping, that will effectively
screen neighboring uses from noise, glare, odor
and other adverse impacts.
4. Playgrounds, recreation facilities and
community centers in the Wildlife Area
Combining Zone are subject to the provisions of
chanter 18. 88 of this title. ( Ord. 98- 013 § 3,
1998)
PAGE 1 of 1 — EXHIBIT " C" to ORDINANCE 98- 013 ( 1/28/ 98)
EXHIBIT " D"
0163- 2096
O. Schools.
1. Nursery schools shall provide and
maintain at least 100 squarefeet of outdoor play
area per child. A sight -obscuring fence at least
four feet but not more than six feet high shall
separatethe play areafrom adjoining lots.
2. Secondary schools shall provide a site
area of 10 acres plus one additional acre for each
100 pupils of predicted ultimate enrollment.
3. Notwithstanding paragraph subseetion
t2) of this subsection, private academic
secondary schools with an enrollment of fewer
than 50 students shall provide a minimum site
area of one acre for every 10 students of
predicted ultimate enrollment, with a minimum
site area of not less than two acres.
4. Schools in the Wildlife Area Combining
Zone are subject to the provisions of chapter
18. 88 of this title. ( Ord. 98- 013 § 4, 1998; Ord.
97- 022 § 1, 1997)
PAGE 1 of 1 — EXHIBIT " D" to ORDINANCE 98- 013 ( 1/ 28/ 98)
EXHIBIT " E"
0163= 2Q9i
AA. Bed and breakfast inn.
1. Bed and breakfast inns shall be
restricted to owner - occupied single-family
residences.
2. Bed and breakfast inns located in farm
or forest zones shall utilize existing dwellings or
dwellings conforming to the requirements of
those zonesrelating to single-family dwellings.
3. No more than three sleeping rooms shall
be available for the accommodation of inn
visitors.
4. No more than eight guests shall be
accommodated at any one time.
5. Occupancies shall be limited to not
more than 30 consecutive days.
6. Breakfast shall be the only meal
provided to inn guests.
7. The exterior of the building shall
maintain a residential appearance.
8. The bed and breakfast inn shall be
operated in a way that will prevent unreasonable
disturbance to area residents.
9. One off- street parking space shall be
provided for each guest room in addition to
parking required for the residence.
10. Approval shall be conditional upon
compliance with all applicable state building
code requirements and state sanitation
requirements.
11. Bed and breakfast inns in the Wildlife
Area Combining Zone are subject to the
provisions of chapter 18. 88 of this title. ( Ord.
98- 013 § 5, 1998)
PAGE 1 of 1 — EXHIBIT " E" to ORDINANCE 98- 013 ( 1/ 28/ 98)
o 63- 2098
Exhibit
Page — L_ of to
Ordinance - 04 3
DESCHUTES COUNTY PLANNING DIVISION
STAFF REPORT
FILE NUMBER: TA - 97- 6
APPLICANT: Cascade Bible Church
P. O. Box 580
La Pine, OR 97739
REQUEST: A text amendment to Chapter 18.88, Wildlife Area Combining
Zone, of Title 18 of the Deschutes County Code to allow a usethat
is currently prohibited.
STAFF CONTACT: Barbara J. Rich, Assistant Planner
I. APPLICABLE CRITERIA:
A. Title 18of the DeschutesCounty Code, the County Zoning Ordinance.
1. Chapter 18.88, Wildlife Area (WA) Combining Zone
2. Chapter 18. 60, Rural Residential ( RR - 10) Zone
3. Chapter 18. 128, Conditional Use
B. Title 22 of the DeschutesCounty Code, Development ProceduresOrdinance.
C. The DeschutesCounty Comprehensive Plan and ResourceElement
D. OAR 660. 23. 040. 110
II. FINDINGS OF FACT:
A. PROPOSAL: The applicant proposes to amend the text of Title 18 of the Deschutes
County Code, Chapter18.88.040 to allow churchesunderspecific circumstancesin the
Bend/ La Pine Deer Migration Corridor. The applicant proposes to limit church sites to:
1. parcels no smaller than one acre and no larger than five acres in size;
2. parcels adjacent to a rural collector or arterial;
3. parcels zoned RR - 10; and
4. properties not in the areas designated as corridors on the 1997 South Co. Regional
Problem Solving map
The applicant further proposes to limit future uses of properties developed as church sites
so that commercial or other non - permitted uses can be established on a former church
site.
TA - 97- 6
0163-- 2®9
habit
Page 2 of =
Ordinancei3-
FINDING: The only arterial in the south county areais Highway 97. None of the
propertiesadjacentto Highway 97 meet the other criteria proposedby the applicant.
Therefore, the reference to arterials will be dropped.
The requirement that future development of the property be limited so that commercial or
other non -permitted usescan be established on the former church site is a function of the
site plan review process and the day to day screening process performed at the public
counter. It is not appropriateto make this requirementa condition of approvalfor a
church or other permitted uses.
B. LOCATION: Areas designatedas being within the Bend -La Pine Deer Migration
Corridor. Theareasaffectedby this amendmentarelocatedbetweenSunriverandLa
Pineandareto thewestof androughlyparallelto Highway97.
C. PUBLIC AGENCY COMMENTS: The Planning Division sent notice of the
application to the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife. The full extent of the
comments are attached hereto and incorporated by reference herein. An important
elementintroducedbythesecommentsistheexpansionof theproposaloutlinedbythe
applicants to include all of the other prohibited useslisted in 18.88.040(B). ODFW does
notfeeltheycanjustify continuingtheprohibitionontheotherlisteduseswhileopening
specific areas to the development of churches. ODFW recommends that these other uses
also be allowed under specific circumstances. Verbal comments from ODFW indicate
thattheDepartmentis willing to considertheexpansionof theusesin specificareas, i.e.
alongcollectors, becausethosecorridorsarealreadyadverselyimpactedandareof
questionable use for migrating deer. Significant differences between the applicant' s
proposal and comments from ODFW are as follows:
Propertieswithin 100 feet of identified wetlands or riparian areasor identified
floodplains should be excluded for these uses under the text amendment;
FINDING: The areasproposed for this text amendment do not include any areaszoned
Flood Plain or areasadjacent to the Deschutes or Little DeschutesRiver except possibly
in the Spring River area.
Expansionof golf coursesfalling under sectionB shall be limited to actual
coursenecessaryfor expansionof playing field. Individual dwellings should
be prohibited aspart of golf course expansionswithin the mule deer migration
overlay.
FINDING: The definition of golf courseand accessoryusesto golf coursesdo not
include dwellings, individual or otherwise. Therefore, an expansion of an existing
lawfullyestablishedgolfcoursecouldnotincludedwellingsaspartoftheexpansion.
Fencesbuilt in associationwith any of the listed uses shall exceedthe
requirementsof section 18.88.070 by being built from postsand poles or
smoothwire andwill haveaminimum bottompoleor wire heightof 18inches
fromthegroundandamaximumtoppoleorwireheightof 40inchesfromthe
ground. These fence requirements will be applicable from the time of
applicationof anyuseonthepropertyuntilsuchtimetheyaredeemedby
DeschutesCountyto beunwarranted.
FINDING: The applicantexpressedconcernthat the exemptionprovisions found in
section18.88.070beretainedin thisareabecausethenewpermittedusescouldhavea
play areafor children as an accessoryuse. These areas need to be securely fenced
TA - 97- 6
0163_, 210lage
t F
age _ A—. of ' 6
Ordinance q8' O'
because of the requirement that such uses locate adjacent to roads classified as
collectors..
III. CONCLUSIONARY FINDINGS:
A. Conformance with state statute and administrative rules:
FINDING: Goal 5 refers to fish and wildlife managementplans adopted by the Oregon
Wildlife Commission. The Goal 5 program is implemented by the specific ESEE process
see: OAR 660- 23- 040 and 110). Therefore, the critical element in reviewing this
proposal is the Fish and Wildlife Inventory ESEE analysis for the Deschutes County
Comprehensive Plan. The discussion of the ESEE analysis follows below.
B. Conformance with the Deschutes County Comprehensive Plan:
Fish and Wildlife Policies (pa eg157):
The following policies pertain specifically to the deer migration corridor:
3) In the Bend/ La Pine deer migration corridor identified in the comprehensive
plan resource element, new land division, where the underlying zone is Rural
Residential - 10, shall be cluster developments.
FINDING: The proposed amendment limits proposed uses to existing ( as of August 5,
1992) parcels that are between one and five acres in size. Because of the minimum lot
size of the RR -10 zone and the proposed restrictions on parcel sizes ( 1-5 acres) for the
proposeduses, the amendmentwill not impact or be impacted by this policy.
14) The county shall maintain an inventory of county -owned property in the
Bend/ La Pine deer migration corridor. Prior to sale or exchange of county
owned property in the corridor, the county shall consult the Oregon
Department of Fish and Wildlife to determine the value of the land for deer
migration and make reasonable efforts to consolidate properties to maintain
habitat characteristics important to preserving the migration corridor.
FINDING: The proposed amendment pertains to privately owned property that will be
used for a church site. This policy doesnot prohibit specificusesin the deermigration
corridor. Therefore, this policy does not apply to this proposal.
ResourceElement - Big Game (page 62):
FINDING: The Resource Element states, in general terms, the need to protect wildlife
habitat. Specific recommendations are found in the Goal 5 ESEE analysis adopted as
Exhibit A to Ordinance 92- 041.
The ESEE analysis identifies the conflicting usesspecific to the deer migration corridor.
These include dwellings, roads and dogs. Supporting documentation for the ESEE,
ODFW Central Region Administrative Reports Nos. 86- 2 and 92- 1, illustrate the negative
impacts of development on the use of an areaby deer. These studies use the presenceof
dogtracksasan indicatorof developmentandso comparedthe incidenceof dog tracks
with the incidence of deer tracks. The studyfound a strongcorrelationbetweenthetwo
in that asdog tracks increasedin frequency, deertracks decreased.
TA - 97- 6
F-
0163- 2101 PagePage 4- of
Ordinance as - o 3
Theareasspecifiedby theapplicantandODFWfor theexpansionof usesarelimitedto
areasimmediatelyadjacenttoruralcollectors (asstatedabove, arterialsareleft outof the
discussionin this staff reportbecausethe only arterial in 96tuthCountyis Highway 97)
thatareheavilyparcelizedandzonedfor ruralresidential (RR -10) development. Based
ontheexistingandpotentialdevelopmentin theseareas (whichis in turnbasedon the
uses permitted outright in the RR -10 zone) and the amount of traffic supported by the
collectors, these areas are of questionable value as deer habitat. The intent of the
proposed restrictions on the uses listed in 18.88.040(B) is to provide some flexibility in
the types of land uses permitted while limiting such development to areas already
adversely impacted by development.
In addition, the Programto Achieve the Goal for the deermigrationcorridor doesnot
specificallyprohibitanyuses. Therecommendationmadein theESEEisto protectdeer
migration corridor( s) by applying the siting and fencing standards. A specific
recommendation to prohibit certain usescan be found in the Antelope Habitat and Deer
Winter Range portions of the ESEE. The Program to Achieve the Goal to conserve
antelope habitat states that " the uses conflicting with antelope habitat should be
specificallylimitedby theapplicationof theWildlifeAreaCombiningZone. ...This zone
limits specific conflicting usesincluding schools, golf coursesand churches."
Basedon thesefindings, theproposalasdescribedby the applicantandODFW doesnot
conflict with the ESEE analysis for fish and wildlife resourcesin DeschutesCounty.
C. Conformance with Title 18:
1. Chapter 18 60 Rural Residential ( RR10) Zone
FINDING: This proposal will amend an overlay zone. The overlay zones serve to
increasethe restrictions on usespermitted in the basezone. Chapter 18.88, Wildlife Area
WA) CombiningZonecurrentlyprohibitsthefollowing uses:
1. Golf course, not included in a destination resort;
2. Commercial dog kennel;
3. Church;
4. Public or private school;
5. Bed and breakfast inn;
6. Dude ranch;
7. Playground, recreationfacility or communitycenterownedandoperatedby a
government agency or a nonprofit community organization;
8. Timeshare unit;
9. Veterinary clinic;
10. Fishing lodge.
Theseusesareprohibited in the WA zoneregardlessof what the underlyingzoneis or
what uses that underlying zone permits.
The applicant proposes that eligible properties must be located in the RR10 zone. A
review of the uses permitted in the RR10 zone, either outright or conditionally shows
that, of the useslistedabove, commercialdogkennels, veterinaryclinics, andfishing
lodgesarenotlisted. Thesethreeusesarepermittedin otherzonesthatunderlietheWA
zone. Fishinglodgesarelistedin theForestUsezones (F1and172) asaconditionaluse.
Dogkennelsarepermittedasaconditionalusein theMultipleUseAgricultural (MUA)
Zone and on non -high value farmland in the Exclusive Farm Use ( EFU) Zone.
TA - 97- 6
Exhibit F
Page . 5 of ( o
Ordinance 48 - 013
VeterinaryclinicsarelistedasaconditionaluseintheMUAzone. Typicalinterpretationofthezoningcodespecifiesthatif auseislisted, eitheraspermittedoutrightorconditionally, inonezonebutnottheotherthenthatuseisnotpermittedinthezonewhere it is not listed. Followingthisreasoning, fishinglodges, dog kennels and
veterinaryclinicsarenotpermittedintheRR10zone. Therefore, thescopeofconditionalusesthatcouldbepermittedintheBend/LaPineDeerWinterRangecannotincludethesethree uses.
2. Chanter18.128, ConditionalUses
FINDING:
Section18.128.040oftheConditionalUsechapterprovidesthespecificusestandardsforthefollowing:
D) -
Church, hospital, nursinghome, convalescenthome, retirementhome. E) Medical clinic, veterinary clinic, club, lodge, fraternal organization,
communitycenter, grangehall, golfcourse, horsestableandhorseeventsrequiringconditionaluses, groundsandbuildingsforgamesorsports, county club, swimming, boating, tennisclubs and similar activities, governmentstructuresandlanduses, parks, playgrounds. 0) Schools.
S) Dude ranches.
AA) Bed and breakfast inn.
Areviewofthespecificusestandardsforduderanchesshowsthata40 -acreminimumlot size is required in order to site this use. Therefore, it isnotappropriatetoincludeduderanchesinthelistofconditionalusespermittedintheBend/LaPineDeerMigrationCorridor.
Thespecificusestandardsforschoolsstatethata10 -acreminimumlotsizeisrequiredforsecondaryschools, howeveranelementaryornurseryschoolwouldstillbefeasibleon a 1-5 acreparcel.
Staffrecommendsthat, inordertofacilitateadministrationandenforcementoftheProposedamendmentby the PlanningDivision, subsections ( D), ( E), ( 0) and (AA) be
amendedtorefertothestandardsforthedeermigrationcorridorintheWildlifeAreaCombiningZonechapter.
Section 18.128.080 provides specific use standards for time- share units. Paragraph18. 128.080( B)(
1) requiresthatnewtime-shareunitsbedevelopedonaminimumof10acres.
Becausetheapplicanthasproposedtolimitparcelsizesfornewchurchesinthe
fiveacres, it doesnotmakesensetoincldeermigration corridor to a maximum of
udetime-shareunits on the list of conditionalusespermitted. Noamendmentsto thissectwould then be required. ion
D. Administration/ Enforcement:
FINDING:
Theproposedlimitationswillprovideclearandobjectivestandardswithwhich to administerand/or enforce theseprovisions.
The recommendedchangesto
Chapter18.128, ConditionalUse, willservetoalertPlanningDivisionstaffandthedevelopmentcommunitytotheincreasedrestrictionsintheWAzoneforthelisteduses.
TA - 97- 6
Exhibit F -
Page of
01.63- 2103 Ordinance a 8 - 0 13
IV. CONCLUSIONS:
The proposedtext amendment will provide added flexibility in land use in an areathat is
alreadyimpactedby parcelizationandexistingandpotentialresidentialdevelopment.
The proposed amendmentwill limit the added usesto areasadjacent to roads designated
ascollectorson theCountyTransportationPlan. These areasare adversely impacted by
development and traffic currently. Therefore, staff believes that increasing the scope of
usespermittedconditionallyin theseareaswill havemarginalimpacts.
V. RECOMMENDATION:
Adoption of a text amendment to Chapter 18.88, Wildlife Area Combining Zone, and
Chapter 18.128, Conditional Use, as shown in the proposed amendments.
Respectfully submitted,
DESCHUTES COUNTY PLANNING DIVISION
Barbara J. Rich, Assistant Planner
BJR: bjr
TA - 97- 6