F.
q P3 967
REVIEWED
LEGAL COUNSEL
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
An Ordinance Amending Chapter :....,.
15. 04, Building and Construction * `
Codes and Regulations, Deschutes
County Code and Declaring an
Emergency.
ORDINANCE NO. 91- 046 -- a
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, Ok ON';
ORDAINS as follows:
108
Section 1. Chapter 15. 04, Building and Construction Code and
Regulations, Deschutes County Code, is amended to add the following
new section:
15. 04. 105. Expedited Construction Start
A. Notwithstanding any other provision set forth in this
Chapter, the Deschutes County Community Development Department is
authorized to allow the commencement and undertaking of certain
construction work for certain types of single- family residences
served by sewer and certain types of garages prior to the issuance
of building permits. The Building Safety Director shall have the
discretion to limit the kind of construction project to which this
section applies and the extent to which such construction can
proceed before building permits must be issued. Such discretion
shall be exercised in a manner calculated to protect public safety
and to limit applicability to projects with a very high probability
of gaining ultimate approval under applicable land use and building
codes.
B. In all cases, owners or their authorized representatives
shall have applied for required building permits. Before
commencing construction under this section, owners and any general
contractor employed by the owner shall be required to sign a form
of agreement with the County, acting by and through the Building
Official or the Director of the Community Development Department or
such other persons as the Board of County Commissioners may
designate, by which the owner and any general contractor agree at
a minimum to assume all risks associated with proceeding before
building permits are issued, agree to call for required inspections
under the applicable Building Code and to correct any construction
deficiencies noted, agree to take remedial action, including but
not limited to removal of construction work, in the event that the
plans submitted for approval are ultimately not approved by the
Community Development Department, and to indemnify the County for
any damage suffered by reason of commencing and undertaking
construction under this section.
1 - ORDINANCE NO. 91- 046 ( 11/ 27/ 91) ,. Clql ,
j f. 9
0108 0492
C. Any owner wishing to proceed with construction under this
section shall apply to the Community Development Department for
approval and pay an application fee in an amount determined by the
Board of Commissioners.
D. For purposes of enforcement, violation of any provision of
the agreement authorized by this section by any owner or contractor
who is a party to such an agreement shall be treated as if it were
a violation of a provision of this Chapter. Enforcement under this
chapter shall be in addition to any remedies set forth under the
Agreement.
Section 2. This Ordinance being necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health and safety, an emergency
is declared to exist, and this Ordinance takes effect on its
passage.
DATED this day of November, 1991.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
OF DES TES COUNTY, OREGON
2 - ORDINANCE NO. 91- 046 ( 11/ 27/ 91)
c. mmissio er
5C ANGEN, Commiss
N, Chairman