REVIEWED
LEGAL COUNSEL
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
An Ordinance Amending Title 18 of
the Deschutes County Code to Adopt
an Ordinance Regulating the Siting of
Destination Resorts and Declaring
an Emergency.
92- 05048
ORDINANCE NO. 92-
004r"
t
0108 1415
WHEREAS, Deschutes County has determined to implement LCDC
Statewide Planning Goal 8; and
WHEREAS, Goal 8 requires the County to adopt certain criteria
regulating the siting of destination resorts in the County;
and
WHEREAS, public hearings have been held in conformance with
state law to implement the. Goal 8 ordinance requirements; now
therefore,
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Section 18. 040. 030, Definitions, is amended to
replace the definition of " Destination Resort" with the definition
set forth in Exhibit A, attached hereto and by this reference
incorporated herein.
Section 2. Section 18. 040. 030, Definitions, is amended to add
the definitions set forth in Exhibit B, attached hereto and by this
reference incorporated herein.
Section 3. Chapter 18. 16, Exclusive Farm Zones, is amended to
add a new section 18. 16. 035 as follows:
18. 16. 035. Destination Resorts.
In the EFU- 40 and EFU- 20 zones, destination resorts may be
allowed as a conditional use, subject to all applicable
standards of the DR zone.
Section 4. Chapter 18. 32, MUA Zone, is amended to add a new
section 18. 32. 035 as follows:
18. 32. 035. Destination Resorts.
Destination resorts may be allowed as a conditional use, subject
to all applicable standards of the DR zone.
V`vPAGE 1 - ORDINANCE N0. 92- 004
0108 1416
Section 5. Section 18. 40. 030, F- 2 Conditional Uses Permitted,
is amended to delete subsection ( K), Destination Resorts.
Section 6. Chapter 18. 40, F- 2 Zone, is amended to add a new
subsection 18. 40. 35, as follows:
18. 40. 035. Destination Resorts.
Destination resorts may be allowed as a conditional use,
subject
to all applicable standards of the DR zone where mapped.
Section 7. Section 18. 44. 030, F- 3 Conditional Uses Permitted,
is amended to delete subsection ( K), Destination Resorts.
Section 8. Chapter 18. 44, F- 3 Zone, is amended to add a new
subsection 18. 44. 35 as follows:
18. 44. 035. Destination Resorts.
Destination resorts may be allowed as a conditional use,
subject
to all applicable standards of the DR zone where mapped.
Section 9. Section 18. 48. 030, OS& C Conditional Uses Permitted,
is amended to read as follows:
18. 48. 030. Conditional Uses Permitted
The following uses may be allowed subject to Chapter 18. 128 of
this title:
A. Commercial, private picnic or campgrounds.
B. Commercial, private group camping facility.
C. Utility facility except landfills.
D. Public or private golf courses.
E. Water supply and treatment facility.
F. Commercial recreation use including marina, riding stable,
destination resort] gun club, recreation camp, and dude ranch.
G. Public marina, recreation camp or resort.
H. Public or private rockhound sites.
I. Excavation, grading and fill and removal within the bed and
banks of a stream or river or in a wetland subject to Sections
18. 120. 050 and 18. 128. 040( W).
Section 10. Section 18. 60. 030, RR - 10 Conditional Uses
Permitted, is amended to delete subsection ( B), Destination Resort.
Section 11. Chapter 18. 60 is amended to add a new subsection
18. 60. 035 as follows:
18. 60. 035. Destination Resorts.
Destination resorts may be allowed as a conditional use, subject
PAGE 2 - ORDINANCE NO. 92- 004
0108 1417
to all applicable standards of the DR zone.
Section 12. Section 18. 128. 040( S) is amended to exclude any
reference to the term " Destination Resort".
Section 13. Title 18 of the Deschutes County Code, the County
Zoning Ordinance, as amended, is further amended to adopt a new
Chapter 18. 113, Destination Resorts, attached hereto as Exhibit C and
by this reference incorporated herein.
Section 14. The Board of County Commissioners adopts as its
findings and conclusions in support of this amendment the findings
and conclusions of the Board of County Commissioners dated February
7, 1992, attached hereto as Exhibit D and by this reference
incorporated herein.
Section 15. This Ordinance being necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health and safety, an emergency is
declared to exist, and this Ordinance takes effect on its passage.
DATED this 1 day of February, 1992.
TES
Recording Secretary
PAGE 3 - ORDINANCE NO. 92- 004
9 • OUNTY COMMISSIONERS
LSIM CITES COUNTY, OREGON
l IiIII ' sI
Chairman
0108 1418
EXHIBIT A
Destination Resort. A self- contained development providing
visitor - oriented accommodations and developed recreational facilities
in a setting with high natural amenities. To qualify as a " major
destination resort" under Goal 8, a proposed development must meet
the following standards:
1. The resort is located on a site of 160 or more acres.
2. At least 50 percent of the site is dedicated to permanent
open space, excluding yards, streets and parking areas.
3. At least two million dollars ($ 2, 000, 000) ( in 1984 dollars
is spent in the first phase on improvements for on- site
developed recreational facilities and visitor - oriented
accommodations, exclusive of costs for land, sewer and
water facilities, and roads. Not less than one- third of
this amount shall be spent on developed recreational
facilities. Developed recreational facilities and key
facilities intended to serve the entire development and
visitor - oriented accommodations must be physically provided
or be guaranteed through surety bonding or substantially
equivalent financial assurances prior to closure of sale of
individual lots or units. In phased developments,
developed recreational facilities and other key facilities
intended to serve a particular phase shall be constructed
prior to sales in that phase or guaranteed through surety
bonding.
4. Visitor - oriented accommodations are provided, including
meeting rooms, restaurants with seating for 100 persons,
and 150 separate rentable units for overnight lodgings.
Accommodations available for residential use will not
exceed two such units for each unit of overnight lodging.
5. Commercial uses limited to those types and levels necessary
to meet the needs of visitors to the development.
Industrial uses are not permitted.
TT
NPS
DM
PAGE 4 - ORDINANCE NO. 92- 004
0108 1419
EXHIBIT B
Developed Recreation Facilities. With respect to destination
resorts, means improvements constructed for the purpose of
recreation. These include, but are not limited to, golf courses,
tennis courts, swimming pools, marinas, equestrian trails and
facilities and bicycle paths.
Overnight Lodgings. With respect to destination resorts, means
permanent, separately rentable accommodations that are not available
for residential use. Overnight lodgings include hotel or motel
rooms, cabins and timeshare units. Individually - owned units may be
considered overnight lodgings if they are available for overnight
rental use by the general public for at least 45 weeks per calendar
year through a central reservation and check- in service. Tent sites,
recreational vehicle parks, mobile homes, dormitory rooms and similar
accommodations do not qualify as overnight lodgings for the purpose
of this definition.
Self - Contained Development. With respect to destination
resorts, means community sewer, water and recreational facilities
provided on site and limited to meet the needs of the resort or
provided by existing public sewer or water service as long as all
costs related to service extension and any capacity increase are
borne by the development. A " self- contained development" shall have
developed recreational facilities provided on site.
Visitor - Oriented Accommodations. With respect to destination
resorts, means overnight lodging, restaurants and meeting facilities
designed to provide for the needs of visitors rather than residents.
TT
NPS
Dt',T j1
PAGE 5 - ORDINANCE NO. 92- 004
EXHIBIT " C"
CHAPTER 18. 113 0108 1420
DESTINATION RESORTS
18. 113. 010 PURPOSE
A. The purpose of the DR zone is to establish a mechanism
for siting destination resorts and review of destination
resorts to ensure compliance with LCDC Goal 8 and the
county comprehensive plan. The destination resort
designation is intended to identify land areas which are
available for the siting of destination resorts but
which will only be developed if consistent with the
purpose and intent of this chapter and Goal 8.
B. The DR zone is an overlay zone. The DR zone is intended
to provide for properly designed and sited destination
resort facilities which enhance and diversify the
recreational opportunities and the economy of Deschutes
County. The DR zone will ensure resort development
that compliments the natural and cultural attractiveness
of the area without significant adverse effect on
commercial farming and forestry, environmental and
natural features, cultural and historic resources and
their settings and other significant resources.
C. It is the intent of this chapter to establish procedures
and standards for developing destination resorts while
ensuring that all applicable county comprehensive plan
policies are achieved.
D. It is the intent of this chapter to ensure that all
elements of a destination resort which are proposed are
financially secured in a manner which will protect the
public' s interest should the development not be
completed as proposed.
E. It is not the intent
developments that are in
whose primary purpose is to
the area.
18. 113. 020 APPLICABILITY
of this chapter to site
effect rural subdivisions,
serve full- time residents of
A. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to proposals
for the development of destination resorts, as defined
in this Title, in areas designated DR by the County
zoning maps. The provisions of this Chapter shall not
apply to any development proposal in an area designated
DR other than a destination resort.
0108 1421
B. When these provisions are applicable, they shall
supercede all other provisions of the underlying zone.
Other provisions of the zoning ordinance, made
applicable by specific map designations, such as the
SMIA, AH, CH, FP or LM, or otherwise applicable under
the terms of the zoning ordinance text shall remain in
full force and effect, unless otherwise specified
herein.
C. The provisions of this chapter apply to destination
resorts sited through the Goal 2 exception process.
18. 113. 025 APPLICATION TO EXISTING RESORTS
Expansion proposals of existing developments approved as
destination resorts shall meet the following criteria:
A. Meet all criteria of this Chapter without consideration
of any existing development; or
B. Meet all criteria of this Chapter for the entire
development ( including the existing approved destination
resort development and the proposed expansion area),
except that as to the area covered by the existing
destination resort, compliance with setbacks and lot
sizes shall not be required.
If the applicant chooses to support its proposal with any
part of the existing development, applicant shall demonstrate
that the proposed expansion will be situated and managed in a
manner that it will be integral to the remainder of the
resort.
18. 113. 030 USES IN DESTINATION RESORTS
The following uses are allowed, provided they are part of,
and are intended to serve persons at, the destination resort
pursuant to this section and are approved in a final master
plan:
A. Visitor - oriented accommodations designed to provide for
the needs of visitors to the resort:
1. Overnight lodging, including lodges, hotels,
motels, bed and breakfast facilities, time share
units and similar transient lodging facilities;
2. Convention and conference facilities and meeting
rooms;
3. Retreat centers;
0108 1422
4. Restaurants, lounges and similar eating and
drinking establishments; and
5. Other similar visitor - oriented accommodations
consistent with the purposes of this chapter and
Goal 8.
B. Developed recreational facilities designed to provide
for the needs of visitors and residents of the resort:
1. Golf courses and clubhouses;
2. Indoor and outdoor swimming pools;
3. Indoor and outdoor tennis courts;
4. Physical fitness facilities;
5. Equestrian facilities;
6. Wildlife observation shelters;
7. Walkways, bike paths, jogging paths, equestrian
trails;
8. Other similar recreational facilities consistent
with the purposes of this chapter and Goal S.
C. Residential accommodations:
1. Single- family dwellings;
2. Duplexes, triplexes, fourplexes and multi - family
dwellings;
3. Condominiums;
4. Town houses;
5. Living quarters for employees;
6. Time- share projects.
D. Commercial services and specialty shops designed to
provide for the visitors to the resort:
1. Specialty shops, including but not limited to
delis, clothing stores, book stores, gift shops and
specialty food shops;
2. Barber shops/ beauty salons;
0108 1423
3. Automobile service stations limited to fuel sales,
incidental parts sales and minor repairs;
4. Craft and art studios and galleries;
5. Real estate offices;
6. Convenience stores; and
7. Other similar commercial services which provide for
the needs of resort visitors and are consistent
with the purposes of this chapter and Goal 8.
E. Uses permitted in open space areas generally include
only those uses that, except as specified herein, do not
alter the existing or natural landscape of the proposed
open space areas. No improvements, development or other
alteration of the natural or existing landscape shall be
allowed in open space areas, except as necessary for
development of golf course fairways and greens, hiking
and bike trails, lakes and ponds, and primitive picnic
facilities including park benches and picnic tables.
Where farming activities would be consistent with
identified pre- existing open space uses, irrigation
equipment and associated pumping facilities shall be
allowed.
F. Facilities necessary for public safety and utility
service within the destination resort.
G. Other similar uses permitted in the underlying zone
consistent with the purposes of this section.
H. Accessory Uses in Destination Resorts:
1. The following accessory uses shall be permitted
provided they are ancillary to the destination
resort and consistent with the purposes of this
chapter and Goal 8:
a. Transportation - related facilities excluding
airports;
b. Emergency medical facilities;
C. Storage structures and areas;
d. Kennels as a service for resort visitors
only;
e. Recycling and garbage collection facilities;
f. Other similar accessory uses consistent with
the purposes of this chapter and Goal 8.
18. 113. 040 APPLICATION SUBMISSION 0108 1424
The authorization of a permit for a destination resort shall
consist of three steps.
Conceptual Master Plan and Conditional Use Permit For
Destination Resort
1. A conceptual master plan ( CMP) shall be submitted
which addresses all requirements established in
this section. The CMP application shall be
processed as if it were a conditional use permit
under Chapter 22 of the Deschutes County Code,
shall be subject to Sections 18. 128. 010, 18. 128. 020
and 18. 128. 030 of the Deschutes County Code and
shall be reviewed for compliance with the standards
and criteria set forth in this chapter.
Final Master Plan
2. The applicant shall prepare a final master plan
FMP) which incorporates all requirements of the
county approval for the CMP. The Planning Director
shall review the FMP to determine if it complies
with the approved CMP and all conditions of
approval of the conditional use permit. The
Planning Director shall have the authority to
approve, deny or return the FMP to the applicant
for additional information. When interpretations
of the Planning Director involve issues which are
discretionary the FMP approval shall be treated as
a land use permit in accordance with Chapter 22 of
the County Code.
Site Plan Review
3. Each element or development phase of the
destination resort must receive additional approval
through the required site plan review ( Chapter
18. 124 of the County Code) or subdivision process
Title 17 of the County Code). In addition to
findings satisfying the site plan or subdivision
criteria, findings shall be made that the specific
development proposal complies with the standards
and criteria of this chapter and the FMP.
18. 113. 050 REQUIREMENTS FOR CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT AND
CONCEPTUAL MASTER PLAN APPLICATIONS
0108 1425
The CMP provides the framework for development of the
destination resort and is intended to ensure that the
destination resort meets the requirements of this chapter.
The CMP application shall include the following information:
A. Illustrations and graphics to scale, identifying:
1. The location and total number of acres to be
developed as a planned destination resort;
2. The subject area and all land uses adjacent to the
subject area;
3. The topographic character of the site;
4. Types and general location of proposed development
uses, including residential and commercial uses;
5. Major geographic features;
6. Proposed methods of access to the development,
identifying the main vehicular circulation system
within the resort and an indication of whether
streets will be public or private;
7. Major pedestrian, equestrian and bicycle trail
systems;
8. Important natural features of the site, including
habitat of threatened or endangered species,
streams, rivers, wetlands and riparian vegetation
within 200 feet of streams, rivers and wetlands.
9. All uses proposed within Landscape Management
corridors identified by the comprehensive plan or
zoning ordinance.
10. The location and number of acres reserved as open
space, buffer area, or common area. Areas
designated as " open space", " buffer area", or
common area" should be clearly illustrated and
labeled as such;
11. All proposed recreational amenities.
12. Proposed overall density.
B. Further information as follows:
1. A description of the natural characteristics of the
site and surrounding areas, including a description
of resources and the effect of the destination
resort on the resources; methods employed to
0108 1426
mitigate adverse impacts on resources; analysis of
how the overall values of the natural features of
the site will be preserved, enhanced or utilized in
the design concept for the destination resort; and
a proposed resource protection plan to ensure that
important natural features will be protected and
maintained. Factors to be addressed include:
a. Compatibility of soil composition for proposed
development( s) and potential erosion hazard;
b. Geology, including areas of potential
instability;
C. Slope and general topography;
d. Areas subject to flooding;
e. Other hazards or development constraints;
f. Vegetation;
g. Water areas, including streams, lakes, ponds
and wetlands;
h. Important natural features;
i. Landscape management corridors;
j. Wildlife.
2. A traffic study which addresses ( 1) impacts on
affected county, city and state road systems and
2) transportation improvements necessary to
mitigate any such impacts. The study shall be
submitted to the affected road authority ( either
the County Department of Public Works or the Oregon
Department of Transportation, or both) at the same
time as the conceptual master plan and shall be
prepared by a licensed traffic engineer to the
minimum standards of the road authorities.
3. A description of how the proposed destination
resort will satisfy the standards and criteria of
Sections 18. 113. 060 and 18. 113. 070 of this chapter;
4. Design guidelines and development standards
defining visual and aesthetic parameters for:
a. Building character;
b. Landscape character;
C. Preservation of existing topography and
vegetation;
0108 14, 7d. Siting of buildings; and
e. Proposed standards for minimum lot area,
width, frontage, lot coverage setbacks and
building heights.
5. An open space management plan which includes:
a. An explanation of how the open space
management plan meets the minimum standards of
this Chapter for each phase of the
development;
b. An inventory of the important natural features
identified in the open space areas and any
other open space and natural values present in
the open space;
C. A set of management prescriptions that will
operate to maintain and conserve in perpetuity
any identified important natural features and
other natural or open space values present in
the open space;
d. Deed restrictions that will assure that the
open space areas are maintained as open space
in perpetuity.
6. An explanation of public use of facilities and
amenities on the site.
7. A description of the proposed method of providing
all utility systems, including the location and
sizing of the utility systems;
8. A description of the proposed order and schedule
for phasing, if any, of all development including
an explanation of when facilities will be provided
and how they will be secured if not completed prior
to closure of sale of individual lots or units;
9. An explanation of how the destination resort has
been sited or designed to avoid or minimize adverse
effects or conflicts on adjacent lands. The
application shall identify the surrounding uses and
potential conflicts between the destination resort
and adjacent uses within 660 feet of the boundaries
of the parcel on parcels upon which the resort is
to be developed. The application shall explain how
any proposed buffer area will avoid or minimize
adverse effects or conflicts; 0. 08 1428
10. A description of the proposed method for providing
emergency medical facilities and services and
public safety facilities and services including
fire and police protection.
11. A study prepared by a hydrologist, engineering
geologist or similar professional certified in the
State of Oregon describing:
a. An estimate of water demands for the
destination resort at maximum buildout,
including a breakdown of estimated demand by
category of consumption, including but not
limited to residential, commercial, golf
courses and irrigated common areas;
b. Availability of water for estimated demands at
the destination resort, including ( 1)
identification of the proposed source; ( 2)
identification of all available information on
ground and surface waters relevant to the
determination of adequacy of water supply for
the destination resort; ( 3) identification of
the area that may be measurably impacted by
the water used by the destination resort
water impact area) and an analysis supporting
the delineation of the impact area; and ( 4) a
statistically valid sampling of domestic and
other wells within the impact area.
C. A water conservation plan including an
analysis of available measures which are
commonly used to reduce water consumption.
This shall include a justification of the
chosen water conservation plan. The water
conservation plan shall include a waste water
disposal plan utilizing beneficial use of
reclaimed water to the maximum extent
practicable.
For the purposes of this section, beneficial
uses shall include, but are not limited to:
1) Irrigation of golf courses and greenways;
2) Establishment of artificial wetlands for
wildlife habitation.
12. An erosion control plan for all disturbed land, as
required by ORS Chapter 468. This plan shall
include storm and melt water erosion control to be
Ok pq
implemented during all phases of construc ion,
permanent facilities or practices for the
continuing treatment of these waters. This plan
shall also explain how the water shall be used for
beneficial use or why it cannot be used as such.
13. A description of proposed sewage disposal methods;
14. Wildfire prevention, control and evacuation plans;
15. A description of interim development including
temporary structures related to sales and
development;
16. Plans for owners' associations and related
transition of responsibilities and transfer of
property;
17. A description of the methods of ensuring that all
facilities and common areas within each phase will
be established and will be maintained in
perpetuity;
18. A survey of housing availability for employees
based upon income level and commuting distance;
19. An economic impact and feasibility analysis of the
proposed development prepared by a qualified
professional economist( s) or financial analyst( s)
shall be provided which includes:
a. An analysis which addresses the economic
viability of the proposed development;
b. Fiscal impacts of the project including
changes in employment, increased tax revenue,
demands for new or increased levels of public
services, housing for employees, and the
effects of loss of resource lands during the
life of the project;
20. A solid waste management plan;
21. A description of the system to be used for the
management of any individually owned units that
will be used for overnight lodging and how it will
be implemented, including proposed rental contract
provisions to assure that any individually - owned
lodging facilities will be available for overnight
rental use by the general public for at least 45
weeks per calendar year through a central
reservation and check- in service.
22. If the proposed
combining zone,
be addressed;
23. If the proposed
Combining Zone,
be addressed.
0108 1430
destination resort is in a SMIA
Chapter 18. 56 of this Title shall
destination resort is in a LM
Chapter 18. 84 of this Title shall
24. A survey of historic and cultural resources
inventoried on an acknowledged Goal 5 inventory.
25. Other information as may reasonably be required by
the Planning Director to address the effect of the
proposed development as related to the requirements
of this ordinance.
18. 113. 060 STANDARDS FOR DESTINATION RESORTS
The following standards shall govern consideration of
destination resorts:
A. The destination resort shall, in the first phase,
provide for and include as part of the CMP, the
following minimum requirements:
1. At least 150 separate rentable units for
visitor - oriented lodging.
2. Visitor - oriented eating establishments for at least
100 persons and meeting rooms which provide seating
for at least 100 persons.
3. The aggregate cost of developing the overnight
lodging facilities and the eating establishments
and meeting rooms required in subsections ( 1) and
2) shall be at least two ( 2) million dollars ( in
1984 dollars).
4. At least two ( 2) million dollars ( in 1984 dollars)
shall be spent on developed recreational
facilities.
5. The facilities and accommodations required by this
section must be physically provided or financially
assured pursuant to Section 18. 113. 110 of this
chapter prior to closure of sales, rental or lease
of any residential dwellings or lots.
B. All destination resorts shall have a minimum of 160
contiguous acres of land. Acreage split by public roads
or rivers or streams shall count toward the acreage
limit, provided that the CMP demonstrates that the
0108 1431
isolated acreage will be operated or managed in a manner
that will be integral to the remainder of the resort.
C. All destination resorts shall have direct access onto a
state or county arterial or collector roadway, as
designated by the comprehensive plan;
D. A destination resort shall, cumulatively and for each
phase, meet the following minimum requirements:
1. The resort shall have a minimum of 50% of the total
acreage of the development dedicated to permanent
open space, excluding, yards, streets and parking
areas. Portions of individual residential lots and
landscape area requirements for developed
recreational facilities, visitor - oriented accom-
modations, or multi - family or commercial uses
established by Chapter 18. 124. 070 shall not be
considered open space;
2. Individually - owned residential units shall not
exceed two such units for each unit of visitor -
oriented overnight lodging. Individually - owned
units shall be considered visitor - oriented lodging
if they are available for overnight rental use by
the general public for at least 45 weeks per
calendar year through one or more central
reservation and check- in service( s).
E. Phasing. A destination resort authorized pursuant to
this section may be developed in phases. If a proposed
resort is to be developed in phases, each phase shall be
as described in the CMP. Each individual phase shall
meet the following requirements:
1. Each phase, together with previously completed
phases, if any, shall be capable of operating in a
manner consistent with the intent and purpose of
this chapter and Goal 8.
2. The first phase and each subsequent phase of the
destination resort shall cumulatively meet the
minimum requirements of this section and Section
18. 113. 070.
3. Each phase may include two or more distinct non-
contiguous areas within the destination resort.
F. Destination resorts shall not exceed a density of 1 1/ 2
dwelling units per acre including residential dwelling
units and excluding visitor - oriented overnight lodging.
G. Dimensional Standards:
0108 1432
1. The minimum lot area, width, lot coverage, frontage
and yard requirements and building heights other-
wise applying to structures in underlying zones and
the provisions of chapter 18. 116 relating to solar
access shall not apply within a destination resort.
These standards shall be determined by the Planning
Director or Hearings Body at the time of the CMP.
In determining these standards the Planning
Director or Hearings Body shall find that the
minimums specified in the CMP are adequate to
satisfy the intent of the comprehensive plan
relating to solar access, fire protection, vehicle
access, visual management within landscape
management corridors and to protect resources
identified by LCDC Goal 5 which are identified in
the comprehensive plan. At a minimum a 100'
setback shall be maintained from all streams and
rivers. Rimrock setbacks shall be as provided in
this Title. No lot for a single family residence
shall exceed an overall project average of 22, 000
square feet in size.
2. Exterior setbacks.
a. Except as otherwise specified herein, all
development ( including structures, site -
obscuring fences of over 3 feet in height and
changes to the natural topography of the land)
shall be setback from exterior property lines
as follows:
i) 350 feet for commercial development
including all associated parking areas;
250 feet for multi - family development
and visitor - oriented accommodations
except for single- family residences)
including all associated parking areas;
iii) 150 feet for above - grade development
other than that listed in subsections
i) and ( ii) ;
iv) 100 feet for roads;
v) 50 feet for golf courses; and
vi) 50 feet for jogging trails and bike
paths where they abutt private developed
lots and no setback for where they abutt
public roads and public lands.
0108 1433
b. Notwithstanding subsection ( a)( iii)
above - grade development other than that listed
in subsection ( a)( i) and ( ii) shall be set
back 250 feet in circumstances where state
highways coincide with exterior property
lines.
C. The setbacks of this section shall not apply
to entry roadways and signs.
H. Floodplain requirements. The floodplain zone ( FP)
requirements of Chapter 18. 96 shall apply to all
developed portions of a destination resort in a FP zone
in addition to any applicable criteria of this chapter.
Except for floodplain areas which have been granted an
exception to LCDC Goals 3 and 4, floodplain zones shall
not be considered part of a destination resort when
determining compliance with the following standards;
1. 160 acre minimum site;
2. Density of development;
3. Open space requirements.
A conservation easement as described in this Title shall
be conveyed to the county for all areas within a
floodplain which are part of a destination resort.
I. The Landscape Management Combining Zone ( LM)
requirements of Chapter 18. 84 shall apply to destination
resorts where applicable.
J. Excavation, grading and fill and removal within the bed
and banks of a stream or river or in a wetland shall be
a separate conditional use subject to all pertinent
requirements of this title.
K. Timeshare units not included in the overnight lodging
calculations shall be subject to approval under the
conditional use criteria set forth in Chapter 18. 128.
Timeshare units identified as part of the destination
resort' s overnight lodging units shall not be subject to
the timeshare conditional use criteria of Chapter
18. 128.
18. 113. 070 APPROVAL CRITERIA
In order to approve a destination resort the Planning
Director or Hearings Body shall find from substantial
evidence in the record that:
0108 1434
A. The subject proposal is a destination resort as defined
in Section 18. 040. 030 of this title.
B. All standards established by Section 18. 113. 060 of this
chapter are or will be met.
C. The economic analysis demonstrates that:
1. The necessary financial resources are available for
the applicant to undertake the development
consistent with the minimum investment requirements
established by this chapter.
2. Appropriate assurance has been submitted by
lending institutions or other financial entities
that the developer has or can reasonably obtain
adequate financial support for the proposal once
approved.
3. The destination resort will provide a substantial
financial contribution which positively benefits
the local economy throughout the life of the entire
project, considering changes in employment, demands
for new or increased levels of public service,
housing for employees and the effects of loss of
resource land.
4. The natural amenities of the site considered
together with the identified developed recreation
facilities to be provided with the resort, will
constitute a primary attraction to visitors, based
on the economic feasibility analysis.
D. Any negative impact on fish and wildlife resources will
be completely mitigated so that there is no net loss or
net degradation of the resource.
E. Important natural features, including but not limited to
significant wetlands, riparian habitat, and landscape
management corridors will be maintained. Riparian
vegetation within 100 feet of streams, rivers and
significant wetlands will be maintained. Alterations to
important natural features, including placement of
structures, is allowed so long as the overall values of
the feature are maintained.
F. The development will not force a significant change in
accepted farm or forest practices or significantly
increase the cost of accepted farm or forest practices
on surrounding lands devoted to farm or forest use.
G. 1. Destination resort developments that significantly
affect a transportation facility shall assure that
0108 1435
the development is consistent with the identified
function, capacity and level of service of the
facility. This shall be accomplished by either:
a. Limiting the development to be consistent with
the planned function, capacity and level of
service of the transportation facility;
b. Providing transportation facilities adequate
to support the proposed development consistent
with OAR Chapter 660, Division 12; or
C. Altering land use densities, design
requirements, or using other methods to reduce
demand for automobile travel and to meet
travel needs through other modes.
A destination resort significantly affects a
transportation facility if it would result in
levels of travel or access that are inconsistent
with the functional classification of a facility or
would reduce the level of service of the facility
below the minimum acceptable level identified in
the relevant transportation system plan.
2. Where the option of providing transportation
facilities is chosen, the applicant shall be
required to improve impacted roads to the full
standards of the affected authority as a condition
of approval. Timing of such improvements shall be
based upon the timing of the impacts created by the
development as determined by the traffic study or
the recommendations of the affected road authority.
3. Access within the project shall be adequate to
serve the project in a safe and efficient manner
for each phase of the project.
H. The development will not create the potential for
natural hazards identified in the county comprehensive
plan. No structure will be located on slopes exceeding
25 percent. A wildfire management plan will be
implemented to ensure that wildfire hazards are
minimized to the greatest extent practical and allow for
safe evacuation.
I. Adequate public safety protection will be available
through existing fire districts or will be provided
onsite according to the specification of the state fire
marshal. If the resort is located outside of an
existing fire district the developer will provide for
staffed structural fire protection services. Adequate
public facilities to provide for necessary safety
0108 1436
services such as police and fire will be provided on the
site to serve the proposed development.
J. Streams and Drainage. Unless otherwise agreed to in
writing by the adjoining property owner( s), existing
natural drainages on the site will not be changed in any
manner which interferes with drainage patterns on
adjoining property. All surface water drainage changes
created by the development will be contained on site in
a manner which meets all standards of the Oregon State
Department of Environmental Quality ( DEQ). The erosion
control plan for the subject development will meet all
standards of ORS Chapter 468.
K. Adequate water will be available for all proposed uses
at the destination resort, based upon the water study
and a proposed water conservation plan. Water use will
not reduce the availability of water in the water impact
areas identified in the water study considering existing
uses and potential development previously approved in
the affected area. Water sources shall not include any
perched water table. Water shall only be taken from the
regional aquifer. Where a perched water table is
pierced to access the regional aquifer, the well must be
sealed off from the perched water table.
L. The wastewater disposal plan includes beneficial use to
the maximum extent practicable. Approval of the CMP
shall be conditioned on applicant' s making application
to DEQ for a Water Pollution Control Facility ( WPCF)
permit consistent with such an approved wastewater
disposal plan. Approval shall also be conditioned upon
applicant' s compliance with applicable Oregon
Administrative Rules regarding beneficial use of waste
water, as determined by DEQ. Applicant shall received
approval of a WPCF permit consistent with this provision
prior to applying for approval for its Final Master Plan
under this Chapter.
M. The resort will mitigate any demands it creates on
publicly owned recreational facilities on public lands
in the surrounding area.
N. Site improvements will be located and designed to avoid
or minimize adverse effects of the resort on the
surrounding land uses. Measures to accomplish this may
include establishment and maintenance of buffers between
the resort and adjacent land uses, including natural
vegetation and appropriate fences, berms, landscaped
areas and similar types of buffers; and setback of
structures and other developments from adjacent land
uses.
0108 1437
O. The resort will be served by an onsite sewage system
approved by DEQ and a water system approved by the
Oregon State Health Division except where connection to
an existing public sewer or water system is allowed by
the county comprehensive plan such service and will be
provided to the resort.
P. The destination resort will not alter the character of
the surrounding area in a manner that substantially
limits, impairs or prevents permitted or conditional
uses of surrounding properties.
Q. Commercial, cultural, entertainment or accessory uses
provided as part of the destination resort will be
contained within the development and will not be
oriented to public highways adjacent to the property.
Commercial, cultural and entertainment uses allowed
within the destination resort will be incidental to the
resort itself. As such, these ancillary uses will be
permitted only at a scale suited to serve visitors to
the resort.
The commercial uses permitted in the destination resort
will be limited in type, location, number, dimensions,
and scale ( both individually and cumulatively) to that
necessary to serve the needs of resort visitors. A
commercial use is necessary to serve the needs of
visitors if:
1. Its primary purpose is to provide goods or services
that are typically provided to overnight or other
short- term visitors to the resort, or the use is
necessary for operation, maintenance, or promotion
of the destination resort; and
2. The use is oriented to the resort and is located
away from or screened from highways or other major
through roadways.
R. A plan exists to ensure a transfer of common areas,
facilities such as sewer, water, streets, and
responsibility for police and fire protection to owners'
associations or similar groups if contemplated. If such
transfer is not contemplated, the owner or responsible
party shall be clearly designated. Adequate open space,
facility maintenance and police and fire protection
shall be ensured in perpetuity in a manner acceptable to
the county.
S. Temporary structures will not be allowed unless approved
as part of the CMP. Temporary structures will not be
allowed for more than 18 months and will be subject to
all use and site plan standards of this Title.
0108 1438
T. The open space management plan is sufficient to protect
in perpetuity identified open space values.
U. A mechanism to ensure that individually - owned units
counting toward the overnight lodging total remain
available for rent for at least 45 weeks per calendar
year through a central reservation and check- in service.
Such a mechanism shall include all of the following:
1. Designation on the plat of which individually -
owned units are to be considered to be overnight
lodging as used in this Chapter;
2. Deed restrictions limiting use of such identified
premises to overnight lodging purposes under this
Chapter for at least 45 weeks each year;
3. Inclusion in the CC& R' s of an irrevocable provision
enforceable by the County limiting use of such
identified units to overnight lodging purposes
under this Chapter for at least 45 weeks each year;
4. Inclusion of language in any rental contract
between the owner of the unit and any central
reservation and check- in service requiring that
such units be made available as overnight lodging
facilities under this Chapter for at least 45 weeks
each year; and
5. A requirement that each such unit be registered and
a report be filed on each such unit yearly by the
owner or central booking agent on January 1 with
the Planning Division as to the following
information:
a. who the owner or owners have been over the
last year;
b. how many nights out of the year the unit was
available for rent through the central
reservation and check- in service; and
C. how many nights out of the year the unit was
rented out as an overnight lodging facility
under this Chapter.
18. 113. 075 IMPOSITION OF CONDITIONS
The standards made applicable by this Chapter may be met by
the imposition of conditions calculated to insure that the
standard will be met.
0108 1439
18. 113. 080 PROCEDURE FOR MODIFICATION OF A CONCEPTUAL
MASTER PLAN
Any substantial change, as determined by the Planning
Director, proposed to an approved CMP shall be reviewed in
the same manner as the original CMP. An insubstantial change
may be approved by the Planning Director. Substantial change
to an approved CMP, as used in this section, means an
alteration in the type, scale, location, phasing or other
characteristic of the proposed development such that findings
of fact on which the original approval was based would be
materially affected.
18. 113. 090 REQUIREMENTS FOR FINAL MASTER PLAN
It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to provide a
Final Master Plan ( FMP) which includes text and graphics
explaining and illustrating:
A. The use, location, size and design of all important
natural features, open space, buffer areas, common
areas;
B. The use and general location of all buildings, other
than residential dwellings, and the proposed density of
residential development by location;
C. Preliminary location of all sewer, water, storm drainage
and other utility facilities and materials, and
specifications and installation methods for water and
waste water systems;
D. Location and widths of all roads, streets, parking,
pedestrian ways, equestrian trails and bike paths;
E. Methods to be employed to buffer and mitigate potential
adverse impacts on adjacent resource uses and property;
F. Building elevations of visitor - oriented accommodations,
recreational facilities and commercial services
sufficient to demonstrate the architectural character of
the proposed development;
G. A description of all commercial uses including
approximate size and floor area;
H. The location of or distance to any emergency medical
facilities and public safety facilities;
I. When a phase includes a residential subdivision, a
0108 1440
general layout of the subdivision which include the
number of lots, minimum and maximum lot sizes, and
approximate location of roadways shall be included.
J. A description of measures taken, with copies of deed
restrictions, CC& R' s and rental contracts, to implement
the measures identified in this Chapter assuring that
individually - owned lodging units considered to be
overnight lodgings for at least 45 weeks per calendar
year through a central reservation and check- in service.
K. A description of measures taken, with copies of deed
restrictions and a final management plan, to implement
the open space management plan required by this Chapter.
L. The status of all required off- site roadway
improvements.
M. Methods to be employed for managing automobile traffic
demand.
N. A copy of an WPCF permit issued by DEQ consistent with
the requirements of Chapter 18. 113. 070( L).
18. 113. 100 PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF FISP
A. The FMP shall be submitted in a form approved by the
County Planning Director consistent with Title 22 of the
Deschutes County Code for a development permit. The
Planning Director shall review the FMP and if the
Planning Director finds that all standards of the CMP
have been met, the FMP shall. be approved in writing
without notice. If approval of the FMP involves the
exercise of discretion, the FMP shall be treated as a
land use action and notice shall be provided in
accordance with Title 22 of the Deschutes County Code;
B. If the Planning Director finds evidence in the FMP of a
substantial change from the CMP, the Planning Director
shall advise the applicant to submit an application for
modification or amendment of the CMP.
18. 113. 110 PROVISION OF STREETS, UTILITIES, DEVELOPED
RECREATIONAL FACILITIES AND VISITOR - ORIENTED
ACCOMMODATIONS
A. The Planning Director or Hearings Body shall find that
all streets, utilities, developed recreational
facilities and visitor - oriented accommodations required
by the FMP are physically provided or are guaranteed
through surety bonding or substantial financial
0108 1441
assurances approved by the county prior to closure of
sale of individual lots or units.
B. Financial assurance or bonding to assure completion of
streets and utilities, developed recreational facilities
and visitor - oriented accommodations in the FMP shall be
required pursuant to the security requirements for site
plan review and subdivision review established by the
Deschutes County Code.
GJR: mjz
TT
NPS
DM
0108 1442
Exhibit D
FINDINGS IN SUPPORT OF DESTINATION RESORT
ORDINANCES 92- 001, 92- 002, 92- 003, and 92- 004
1. On April 19, 1991, the County accepted an application from Eagle
Crest Partners, Ltd. for a legislative amendment to the
Deschutes County Comprehensive Plan and the Deschutes County
Zoning Ordinance to implement the provisions of LCDC Statewide
Planning Goal 8 relating to destination resort siting on
resource lands.
2. Goal 8 sets forth two components for Counties seeking to
implement the Goal' s destination resort siting program. First,
the County must identify those areas in the County available for
destination resort siting after identifying and excluding
certain farm and forest resource lands, wildlife habitat areas,
and areas including inventoried Goal 5 resources fully protected
under the County' s acknowledged comprehensive plan. The second
component is to implement regulations that will at a minimum ( 1)
maintain identified natural features, such as threatened or
endamgered species, streams, river and significant wetlands; ( 2)
provide buffers and setbacks between improvements and activities
taking place within destination resorts in order to avoid or
minimize adverse effects of destination resorts on surrounding
lands; ( 3) limit uses occurring within the destination resort to
those permitted by Goal 8; and ( 4) provide assurance that the
required developed recreational facilities, visitor - oriented
accommodations, and other key facilities are physically provided
or are guaranteed through surety bonding or other substantially
equivalent financial assurances prior to closure of sale of
individual lots or units.
3. The Planning Commission held several public hearings and
worksession at which destination resorts and their impacts were
generally reviewed; policies were reviewed for determining which
of the resource lands in the County should be made available for
destination resort siting; data concerning certain classes of
resource lands required to be excluded from destination resort
siting was reviewed; and a proposed ordinance regulating siting
of destination resorts was reviewed.
4. Based upon their extensive review of the issues and the data,
the Planning Commission issued a report recommending a
destination resort package to the Board of County Commissioners,
which included a proposed map for siting destination resorts, a
proposed zoning ordinance regulating destination resort siting,
and certain policy recommendations.
5. The Board of County Commissioners held a public hearing on the
PAGE 6 - ORDINANCE NO. 92- 004
108 1443
Planning Commission' s recommendations on January 8, 1992.
6. Based upon its extensive review of the record, including the
record developed before the Planning Commission, the Board made
a tentative decision on a destination resort map and ordinance
provisions governing the siting of destination resorts.
7. Based upon the Board' s tentative decision, County staff
assembled a package of ordinances to implement the Board' s
decision. Those ordinances are as follows: Ordinance 92- 001,
amending the Comprehensive Plan to adopt Goals and Policies
regarding development of the County' s destination resort map and
the County' s zoning ordinance regulating destination resort
siting; Ordinance 92- 002, amending the Comprehensive Plan to
adopt a countywide destination resort siting map and amendments
to the resource element of the Comprehensive Plan describing the
mapping process; Ordinance 92- 003, amending the County zoning
ordinance to adopt zoning maps to show which County lands are
available for destination resort siting; and Ordinance 92- 004,
amending the text of the County zoning ordinance to adopt new
provisions regulating the siting of destination resorts on lands
identified on the destination resort map as available for
destination resort siting ( hereinafter collectively referred to
as " destination resort siting package").
8. The Board finds that other than the process Goals set forth in
LCDC Statewide Planning Goals 1 and 2, Statewide Planning Goal
8 ( and its associated codification in state statute -
hereinafter collectively referred to as Goal 8) provide the the
only criteria for reviewing the County' s destination resort
package.
9. The Board finds that the County' s destination resort package
meets the requirements of Goal 8 for the following reasons:
a) The County has adopted as part of its comprehensive
plan a county - wide destination resort map and a series of large
scale enlargements of that map ( hereinafter collectively
referred to as " destination resort map" or simply " the map")
indicating where destination resorts may occur in the County on
certain EFU- 20 and EFU- 40 lands as well as certain exception
areas. The County finds from the discussion set forth in
Exhibit A to Ordinance 92- 002, which discussion is incorporated
herein by reference, that the map meets Goal 8' s requirement
that areas available for destination resorts be mapped and that
certain resource areas not be included on such a map. That map
has been adopted as part of the County' s zoning maps by
Ordinance 92- 003.
b) The County has adopted by Ordinance 92- 001 amendments
to the text of its Comprehensive Plan Goals and Policies
designed to provide for the implementation of Goal 8, including
PAGE 7 - ORDINANCE NO. 92- 004
0108 1444
a recitation of Goal 8 requirements. This ensures that County
ordinances drawn to implement Goal 8 will comply with Goal 8 and
that completion of the County' s destination resort map will
comply with Goal 8.
C) The Goal 8 requirement that uses and activities in
destination resorts be limited to those that are consistent with
the Goal are satisfied by provisions in the zoning ordinance,
adopted by Ordinance 92- 004. Those provisions include Sections
18. 113. 030 and 18. 113. 070( Q) of the Deschutes County Code, as
amended by the destination resort additions. Uses allowed in
the destination resort are limited to those, such as visitor -
oriented accommodations and developed recreational facilities,
that are defined by Goal 8 to be elements of destination
resorts, or are limited in scope to serve only the needs of the
visitors to the resort. All definitions of component parts of
destination resort duplicate or are more stringent than those
found in the Goal.
d) The Goal 8 requirement that important natural features
be maintained is satisfied by inclusion in the zoning ordinance
at Section 18. 113. 070( E) of language duplicating that found in
the Goal.
e) The Goal 8 requirement that buffers and setbacks be
required to avoid or minimize adverse effects on land uses,
particularly intensive farming operations, on surrounding lands
is satisfied by the setback requirements set forth in Section
18. 113. 060( G)( 2). These setbacks require that most recreational
activites be setback at least 50 feet from property lines, that
residential structures be set back at least 150 feet, that
multifamily development be set back 250 feet, and that
commercial development be set back 350 feet. The setback
specified in the current acknowledge County zoning ordinance
from intensive farming operations is 100 feet.
f) The Goal 8 requirement that a mechanism be included to
assure that developed recreational facilities, visitor - oriented
accommodations, and key facilities intended to serve the entire
development are physically provided or are guaranteed by surety
bonding or similar financial assurances prior to closure of sale
of individual lots is satisfied by Sections 18. 113. 060( E) and
18. 113. 110, which duplicate the Goal 8 provisions and allow the
County to require security through existing provisions in the
County' s subdivision ordinance.
10. The Board finds that Goal 1, Citizen Involvement, has been met
by the series of hearings held before both the Planning
Commission and the Board of County Commissioners on the
destination resort package. The Planning Commission serves as
the County' s Citizen Involvement Committee.
PAGE 8 - ORDINANCE NO. 92- 004
0108 1445
11. The Board finds that Goal 2, Land Use Planning, is satisfied by
this destination resort package with respect to requirements for
setting forth the factual base for its decision. The Board has
provided an extensive discussion of the process by which its
destination resort map was produced.
PAGE 9 - ORDINANCE NO. 92- 004