REVIEW
96- 30862 LEGALCOUNSEL
U0
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
An Ordinance Amending Section 18.116.040(c), * 9
Accessoryuses, of the DeschutesCounty
Code and Declaring an Emergency. * ':
ORDINANCE NO. 96- 057
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON,
ORDAINS as follows:
Section 1. Amendment. Section 18. 116. 040( c), Accessoryuses, is amendedas set forth in
Exhibit A attached hereto and incorporated herein, with new language set out in red -line and language
to be deleted is in strike - out.
Section 2. Severability. The provisions of this ordinance are severable. If any section,
sentence, clause or phrase of this ordinance is adjudged to be invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, that decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance.
Section 3. Codification. County Legal Counsel shall have the authority to format the
provisions contained herein in a manner that will integrate them into the County Code consistent with
the DeschutesCounty Form and Style Manual for Board Documents. Such codification shall include
the authority to make such changes, to make changes in numbering systems and to make such
numbering changesconsistent with interrelated code sections. In addition, as part of codification of
theseordinances, County Legal Counselmay insert appropriatelegislativehistory reference. Any
legislative history referencesincluded herein are not adoptedaspart of the substanceof this ordinance,
but are included for administrative convenience and as a reference. They may be changed to correct
errors and to conform to proper style without action of the Board of County Commissioners.
Section 4. Repeal of Ordinances as Affecting Existing Liabilities. The repeal, express
or implied, of any ordinance, ordinanceprovision, codesection, or any map or any line on a map
incorporatedthereinby reference, by this amendingordinanceshallnot releaseor extinguishanyduty,
condition, penalty, forfeiture, or liability previouslyincurredor that may hereafterbe incurredunder
such ordinance, unless a provision of this amending ordinance shall so expressly provide, and such
ordinance repealed shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purpose of sustaining any proper
action or prosecution for the enforcement of such duty, condition, penalty, forfeiture, or liability, and
for the purpose of authorizing the prosecution, conviction and punishment of the person or persons
who previously violated the repealed ordinance.
s '
i(AIUOFILMID
PAGE 1 - ORDINANCE NO. 96- 057 ( Date) `~ a Go —
AUG2 8 1996
0155- 1612
Section 5. Emergency. This ordinance being necessaryfor the immediate preservation of
the public peace, health and safety, an emergencyis declared to exist, and this ordinance takes effect
on its passage.
DATED this ( day of , 1996.
ATTEST:
Recording Secretary
PAGE 2 - ORDINANCE NO. 96- 057 ( Date)
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
Exhibit
18. 116. 040. Accessory uses.
An accessory use shall comply
with all requirements for a
principal use, except as this
title specifically allows to
the contrary, and shall comply
with the following limitations:
A. The primary use of
the property must be
established or applied for
prior to issuance of any
building or land use permits
for an accessory structures.
1. Exception:
a. Building permit for a
ramada or carport may be issued
without establishment or
application of primary use if
all other criteria for issuance
are met.
b. Land use, building or
environmental health permits or
extensions of such permits
sought to correct existing code
violations for the subject
property shall be issued if all
other criteria for issuance are
met.
yard may be reduced to five
feet for an accessory structure
erected more than 65 feet from
a front lot line, provided the
structure is detached from
other buildings by five feet or
more and does not exceed a
height of one story nor an area
of 450 square feet.
C. Boats and trailers,
travel trailers, pickup campers
or coaches, motorized dwellings
0155- 1613
A
and similar recreational
equipment may be stored on a
lot but not used as an
accessory use in any zone
provided that:
1. In a residential
zone, parking or storage in a
front yard or in a side yard
adjoining a street other than
an alley shall be permitted
only on a driveway.
2. Parking or storage
shall be at least three feet
from an interior side lot line.
D. A manufactured home
may be stored on an individual
lot subject to obtaining a
zoning approval from the
Planning Division and subject
to the following:
1. Storage period shall
not exceed one year.
2. No utilities other
than electric may be connected.
3. The mobile home shall
not be inhabited.
4. The subject lot is
not located in a CH,
Conventional Housing Combining
Zone. ( Ord. 95- 077 S 1, 1995;
Ord. 95- 075 S 1, 1995; Ord.
91- 038 § 1, 1991)
96- 057]