NANCY BLANKENSHICOUNTYP. CLERK Cd 20031349
                                                         COMMISSIONERS * JOURNAL          = 44 /34/2003 08:42:56 aN

bee
Waa MedLEGAL COUNSEL
                                                         AT
                                                         2003-1349

           REVIEWED
            wa
  CODE REVIEW COMMITTEE

                                                                        For Recording Stamp Only

BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON

An Ordinance Amending the Deschutes County Code

                                                            &
Chapter 2.04 by Adding Section 2.04.055 Establishing                    ORDINANCE NO. 2003-037

                                                            *
the Chain of Succession for Executive Responsibility

                                                            &
in an Emergency, and Declaring an Emergency.

                                                            *
       WHEREAS, Deschutes County Code (“DCC”) Chapter 2.04 sets out the workings of the
Board of County Commissioners; and

        WHEREAS, the Board of County Commissioners finds it in the best interest of the
County to establish the chain of succession for executive responsibility for the county in the
event of an emergency; now, therefore,

      THE BOARD   OF COUNTY                COMMISSIONERS           OF     DESCHUTES         COUNTY,
OREGON, ORDAINS as follows:

        Section 1. That Deschutes County Code Chapter 2.04, Board of County Commissioners,
is amended by adding Section 2.04.055 to read as follows:

2.04.055    Executive Responsibility-Chain of Succession — State of Emergency.

A. The Chair of the Board of County Commissioners is the chief executive local authority for the
   unincorporated area of the county and is principally responsible for assuming centralized
   control over all county departments, divisions and offices once the Board declares a state of
   emergency. If circumstances prohibit the timely action of the Board of County Commissioners,
   the Chair of the Board of County Commissioners may declare such a state of emergency,
   provided the Chair seeks and obtains approval from a majority of the Board at the first
   available opportunity.

   A state of emergency exists whenever the unincorporated area of the county or any part thereof
   is suffering or is in imminent danger of suffering an event that may cause injury or death to
   persons, or damage to, or destruction of property to the extent that extraordinary measures must
   be taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare. Such an event shall include, but not be
   limited to the following:

PAGE 1 OF 3                                                                ORDINANCE NO. 2003-037
         A civil disturbance or riot;
   —_
    2.   A disaster such as flood, windstorm, snow or ice storm, earthquake, volcanic eruption or
         related activity, fire, explosion or epidemic;

    3.   The declaration of a war-caused national emergency;

   4.    Any major disruption of community services such as transportation, power supply, water
         supply, sanitation or communications; and/or

    5.   A health hazard, whether natural or manmade.

    The Chair of the Board of County Commissioners is also responsible for performing the Board
    of County Commissioner’s duties to declare a state of emergency, designate emergency area(s),
    and/or impose regulations when the Board of County Commissioners is unable or unavailable
    to perform such duties.

B. In the event that the Chair of the Board of County Commissioners is unable or unavailable to
    perform his/her duties under this section, the duties shall be performed by:
    1.   The vice chair of the Board of County Commissioners; or,
   2.    If the vice chair of the Board of County Commissioners is unable or unavailable to
         perform, the third member of the Board of County Commissioners; or

    3.   Ifno member of the Board of County Commissioners is able or available to perform, then
         the Sheriff of Deschutes County; or

   4.    Ifno member of the Board of County Commissioners is able or available to perform, and
         the Sheriff is unable or unavailable to perform, then the Undersheriff; or

    5.   Ifno member of the Board of County Commissioners is able or available to perform, and
         the Sheriff and Undersheriff are unable or unavailable to perform, then the County
         Administrator.

C. The powers of the successor to the Board of County Commissioners or the Chair of the Board
shall be limited to those set forth in this section and the duration of succession shall be until such
time as the person of higher priority as set out in this section is able and available to perform
such duties.

     Section 2. EMERGENCY. This Ordinance being necessary for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist, and this Ordinance
takes effect on its passage.

PAGE 2 OF 3                                                               ORDINANCE NO. 2003-037

                               |
DATED this A4         aay of        Oehtye           , 2003.

                                            BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
                                            OF DESCHUJES COUNTY, OREGON

                                            DENNIS R. LUKE, Chair

                                            TOM DEWOLF,        Commissioner

Date of 1° Reading:     AT          day of Oohbur   , 2003.

Date of 2" Reading:     A      i day of Octyer-2003.

               Record of Adoption Vote
Commissioner                  Yes      No           Abstained      Excused
  Dennis R. Luke                —“
  Tom DeWolf                                                         aa
  Michael M. Daly                     aia

Effective date:          A      7    day of Oo tptoue               2003.

ATTEST:

Recording Secretary

PAGE 3 OF 3                                                                 ORDINANCE NO. 2003-037

eee