REVIEWED
LEGAI! COUNSEL
COUNTY
NANCYUBLANKENSHIP,FC UNTY CLERKDS
COMMISSIONERS' JOURNAL
A211RIZAli ~$3Z55 AM
2011-2
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
An Ordinance Repealing and Adding Certain
Chapters of Deschutes County Code Title 23, the * ORDINANCE NO. 2011- 003
County Comprehensive Plan.
WHEREAS, the Board of County Commissioners (" Board") requested an extensive update of the
County Comprehensive Plan (" Plan"); and
WHEREAS, after notice was given in accordance with applicable law, public hearings were held before
the Deschutes County Planning Commission on November 18, 2010 in Bend, December 2, 2010 in Sisters,
December 9, 2010 in La Pine and December 16, 2010 in Bend, to consider the revised draft County
Comprehensive Plan; and
WHEREAS, on January 13, 2011 the Planning Commission forwarded to the Board a recommendation
of approval to adopt changesto the Comprehensive Plan; and
WHEREAS, after notice was given in accordance with applicable law, public hearings were held before
the Board of County Commissioners on March 29, 2011 in Bend, March 31, 2011 in La Pine, April 5, 2011 in
Sisters, May 11, 2011 in Bend and May 31, 2011 in Bend and concluded that the public will benefit from
changes to the Comprehensive Plan; and
WHEREAS, the Board finds it in the public interest to adopt the updated Comprehensive Plan; now,
therefore,
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON, ORDAINS
as follows:
Section 1. REPEAL. The following Deschutes County Code (" DCC") Title 23, Chapters are hereby
repealed;
23. 04 Preface
23. 08 Introduction
23. 12 Definitions
23. 16 Existing Conditions and Concerns
23. 20 ComprehensivePlanning Process
23. 24 Rural Development
23. 40 Unincorporated Communities, * except 23. 40.030 Terrebonne and Tumalo Community Plans and
23. 40.064 Deschutes Junction policies
23. 44 Regional Problem Solving for south Deschutes County
23. 48 Urbanization
23. 52 Economy
23. 56 Housing
23. 68 Public Facilities and Services
23. 72 Recreation
23. 76 Energy
23. 80 Natural Hazards
PAGE 1 OF 2 - ORDINANCE NO. 2011- 003
23. 88 Agricultural Lands
23. 92 Forest Lands
23. 96 Open Spaces, Areas of Special Concern, and Environmental Quality
23. 100 Surface Mining
23. 104 Fish and Wildlife
23. 108 Historic and Cultural
23. 112 Water Resources
23. 116 Deschutes River Corridor
23. 120 Goal Exception Statement
23. 124 Citizen Involvement
23. 128 Plan Flexibility and Updating
23. 132 Things Yet to be Done
23. 136 Implementation
23. 140 Concluding Remarks.
Section 2. ADD. Chapter 23.0 1. 010 is added to the Deschutes County Code as described in Exhibit
A," attached and incorporated by reference herein
Section 3. ADOPTION. The Board hereby adopts the Deschutes County Comprehensive Plan, attached
as Exhibit " B" and incorporated by reference herein.
Section 4. FINDINGS. The Board adopts as its findings Exhibit " C," attached and incorporated by
reference herein.
Dated this 106 of 72011 BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
OF DES_ CHUTESCOUNTY, OREGON
T
ANTHONY DEBONE, Vice- Chair
ATTEST:
5~ 6_ x_~ ALAN UNGER, Commissioner
Recording Secretary
Date of Is` Reading: 0// day of , 2011.
Date of 2ndReading: day of 12011.
Record of Adoption Vote:
Commissioner Yes No Abstained Excused
Tammy Baney
Anthony DeBone t! _
Alan Unger
Effective date: day of 0/~ 011.
PAGE 2 OF 2 - ORDINANCE NO. 2011- 003
Chapter 23. 01. 010 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
23. 01.010. Intro.
The Deschutes County Comprehensive Plan, adoptedby the Board in Ordinance 2011- 003 and
found on the Deschutes County Community Development Department website, is incorporated
by reference herein.
Ord. 2011-003 § 3, 2011)
PAGE 1 OF 1 - EXHIBIT " A" TO ORDINANCE 2011- 003
Document Reproduces Poorly
Archived)
pescku.tes cou.wt~
covwprehews~ve T> Lpt&
Page 1 0 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance 2011- 003
Page 2 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance 2011- 003
Table of Cowtewts
Preamble, Vision and Use of this Plan
Chapter I Comprehensive Planning
Section 1. 1 Introduction 2
Section 1.2 Community Involvement 9
Section 1.3 Land Use Planning 13
Primary References 21
Chapter 2 Resource Management
Section 2.1 Introduction 2
Section 2.2 Agricultural Lands 4
Section 2.3 Forest Lands 13
Section 2.4 Goal 5 Overview 18
Section 2.5 Water Resources 21
Section 2.6 Wildlife 44
Section 2.7 Open Spaces, Scenic Views and Sites 54
Section 2.8 EnergyResources 57
Section 2.9 Environmental Quality 64
Section 2. 10 Surface Mining 69
Section 2. 11 Cultural and Historic Resources 71
Primary References 74
Chapter 3 Rural Growth Management
Section 3.1 Introduction 2
Section 3.2 Rural Development 3
Section 3.3 Rural Housing 5
Section 3.4 Rural Economy 9
Section 3.5 Natural Hazards 17
Section 3.6 Public Facilities and Services 27
Section 3.7 Transportation 33
Section 3.8 Rural Recreation 34
Section 3.9 Destination Resorts 41
Section 3. 10 Area Specific Plans and Policies 42
PrimaryReferences 51
Chapter 4 Urban Growth Management
Section 4.1 Introduction 2
Section 4.2 Urbanization 4
Section 4.3 Unincorporated Communities 10
Section 4. 4 Sunriver 12
Section 4.5 Terrebonne Community Plan 24
Section 4.6 Tumalo Community Plan 25
Section 4.7 Resort Communities 26
Section 4.8 Rural Service Centers 33
DESCHum COUNTY Con REHENsmPLAN- 2011
TALE of CONTENTS
Page 3 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance 2011- 003
Primary References ............................................................................................................................37
Chapter 5 Supplemental Sections
Section 5.1 Introduction .....................................................................................................................2
Section 5.2 Glossary and Acronyms ................................................................................................3
Section 5.3 Goal S Inventory - Water Resources ........................................................................7
Section 5.4 Goal 5 Inventory -Wildlife Habitat
Section 5.5 Goal 5 Inventory - Open Spaces, Scenic Views and Sites ...................................23
Section 5.6 Goal 5 Inventory - EnergyResources .....................................................................26
Section 5.7 Goal 5 Inventory - Wilderness, Natural Areas and Recreation Trails ............28
Section 5.8 Goal S Inventory - Mineral and AggregateResources .........................................29
Section 5.9 Goal 5 Inventory - Cultural and Historic Resources ...........................................36
Section 5. 10 Goal Exception Statements ......................................................................................40
Section S. I I Goal 5 Adopted Ordinances .....................................................................................43
Section 5. 12 legislativeHistory ......................................................................................................44
N DRAFT DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2010
TA u of CONTPm
Page 4 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance 2011- 003
preavu.bLe, v~ s~ow awd Ltse of this flaw
Preamble
The Deschutes County ComprehensivePlan is a statement of issues, goalsand policiesmeant
to guide the future of land use in this County. This ComprehensivePlan is intended to
recognize the expectations and rights of property owners and the community as a whole.
Community Vision
As a result of community outreach, a vision emergedthat defines what peoplecare about in
Deschutes County.
The highquolity of life in Deschutes Countystems from:
The beauty, bounty and richness of a healthy natural
environment
A community of caring people
A strong and diverse economy
Access to a wide variety of outdoor recreational opportunities
The rural character of the region
Maintaininga balance between property rights and community interests
Use of this Plan
The Comprehensive Plan is a tool for addressing changing conditions, markets and technologies.
It can be used in multiple ways, including.
To strengthencommunication with the public.
To guide public decisions on land use policy when developingland use codes, such as
zoning or land divisions.
As a basis for the development of public programs and budgets.
As a basis for the measurement and evaluation of changesin the physical, social,
environmental or economic makeupof the County. Modifications of the Plan itself may
result from this process.
To promote inter- governmentcoordination, collaboration and partnerships.
This Plan does not prioritize one goal or policy over another. Implementation of this plan
requires flexibility because the weightgiven to the goalsand policieswill vary based on the
issue beingaddressed.
The Plan is not intended to be used to evaluate specific development projects. Instead, the Plan
is a 20-yearblueprint to guide growth and development
McHuTES COLNVTY ComnuwENSNE PUN - 2011 In
PREAMBLE. VISION AND USE of THis RUN
Page 5 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance 2011- 003
t
o v~
M
is ~ = 1= ~
v
aom. prehewsWe
PLa ww~wg
PL- A
Page 6 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance 2011- 003
Sect%ow Iwtrooluct%ow
Background
The purpose of the Deschutes County ComprehensivePlan is to provide a blueprint for land
use conservation and development. This is accomplishedthrough goalsand policies that tell a
cohesive story of where and how development should occur and what placesshould remain
undeveloped. The Plan provides a legalframework for establishingmore specific land use
actions and regulations such as zoning. The goals and policies are based on existing conditions
and trends, community values and the statewide planningsystem.
This Plan covers a 20- year period from 2010- 2030. To remain useful over that time, the Plan
must provide clear policy direction yet remain flexible. As Deschutes County conditions
change, legislativeamendments will ensure the Plan remains relevant and timely.
The unincorporated areas of the County are covered by this
Plan. The cities of Bend, La Pine, Redmond and Sisters each
maintain their own comprehensive planswithin their
respective Urban Growth Boundaries ( UGBs). The cities and
County use intergovernmentalagreements to coordinate
land use within UGBs.
In Oregon, comprehensive plans must comply with the
statewide planning system, which was adopted in 1973 to
ensure consistent land use policiesacross the State. While compliancewith the statewide
system is required, it is also important for a comprehensive plan to reflect local needs and
interests. This Plan balances statewide requirements and local land use values.
Purpose of this Chapter
This chapter clarifies the reason for comprehensive planning, addresses the role of the
community in planningprocesses and discusses basic land use principles. The chapter is divided
into three sections.
Introduction ( Section 1.1)
Community Involvement ( Section 1.2)
Land Use ( Section 1.3)
Snapshot of Deschutes County
Deschutes County lies in the heart of the State of Oregon and encompasses a total of 3, 054
square miles. The County was created in 1916 from a portion of Crook County and was named
after the Deschutes River.
Deschutes County is defined in part by the variety and beauty of the natural landscape. On the
western side of the County, largesnow- cappedvolcanoes tower over pine forests dotted with
mountain lakes. The eastern side is characterized by highdesert, sagebrushand largebuttes.
The Deschutes River runs north through the County, fed by numerous smaller rivers, creeks
and springs.
2 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 7 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance 264
I COMR KNSIVE PLANNING SECTION 1. 1 INTRODUCTION
Approximately 80 percent of the land in the County is publiclyowned by the federal, state or
local governments. Many of these lands are managedfor public use and provide easy access for
both residents and visitors to participate in hiking, biking, hunting, fishing, canoeing, skiing and
other outdoor activities.
These natural amenities make Deschutes County an attractive
placeto live. The U.S. Census in 2010 estimated Deschutes
County's populationat 157,733. Accordingto Deschutes
County's PopulationForecast, the populationwill grow to
240,811 by 2025. Extrapolatingthe forecast out five years, the
Countyanticipates a 2030 populationof 266,538. Of that
number, 88, 748 peopleare expectedto reside in the unincorporatedareas covered under this
Plan. Chapter 4 contains more detailed population information.
Legal Framework
In 1973 the Oregon Legislatureadopted a statewide planningsystem that draws
a bright line between urban and rural land uses, channelinggrowth into urban
areas while protecting farm and forest lands. Public outreach around the State
led to the adoption of 19 Statewide PlanningGoals ( Statewide Goals). These
Statewide Goals are implementedthrough local governments' adopted
comprehensive plans. Local comprehensive plans are reviewed for compliance with the
Statewide Goals by the Oregon Land Conservation and DevelopmentCommission ( LCDC), a
seven- member committee appointed by the Governor and staffed by the Department of Land
Conservation and Development (DLCD). The comprehensive plansare, in turn, implemented
through zoning, land division ordinances and other techniques.
The majority of the Statewide Goals are written broadly, with specific regulations codified
either in Oregon Revised Statute ( ORS) or Oregon Administrative Rule ( OAR). LCDC adopts
the OARs, which clarify and implement the Statewide Goals. Over time, the rules, regulations
and case law definingthe Statewide Goals have become more detailed and complex, and are a
significant factor in determining the elements of a comprehensive plan.
Statewide Planning Goals
Goal 1 Citizen Involvement: To develop a citizen involvement program that insures the
opportunity for citizens to be involved in all phasesof the planningprocess.
Goal 2 Lend Use Planning: To establish a land use planning process and policy framework as
a basis for all decisions and actions related to use of land and to assure an adequate factual base
for such decisions and actions.
Goal 3 Agricultural Lands: To preserve and maintain agriculturallands.
Goal 4 Forest Lands: To conserve forest lands by maintaining the forest land base and to
protect the state's forest economy by making possible economically efficient forest practices
that assure the continuous growing and harvesting of forest tree species as the leading use on
forest land consistent with sound management of soil, air, water, and fish and wildlife resources
and to provide for recreational opportunities and agriculture.
Goal S Natural Resources, Scenic and Historic Areas, and Open Spaces: To protect
natural resources and conserve scenic and historic areas and open space.
ccDucHum
CouNw
CoiemtR,mssm
PLAN
n-o2N01111app
P ~~ E~" 13 ZCi iJiZlTnance NJ1- U~sUCflON
Goa16 Air, Water, and Land Resources Quality. To maintain and improve the quality of
the air, water, and land resources of the state.
Goal 7 Areas Subject to Natural Hazards: To protect people and property from natural
hazards.
Goal 8 Recreational Needs: To satisfythe recreational needs of the citizens of the state and
visitors and, where appropriate, to provide for the siting of necessary recreational facilities
includingdestination resorts.
Goal 9 Economic Development: To provide adequate opportunities through the state for a
variety of economic activities vital to the health, welfare, and prosperity of Oregon's citizens.
Goal 10 Housing: To provide for the housing needs of citizens of the state.
Goal 11 Public Facilities and Services: To plan and develop a timely, orderly and efficient
arrangement of public facilities and service to serve as a framework for urban and rural
development.
Goal 12 Transportation: To provide and encourage a safe, convenient and economic
transportation system.
Goal 13 Energy Conservation: To conserve energy.
Goal 14 Urbanization: To provide for an orderly and efficient transition from rural to urban
land use, to accommodate urban population and urban employment inside urban growth
boundaries, to ensure efficient use of land, and to provide for livable communities.
Note: Statewide Planning Goals IS- 19 do not apply to Deschutes County.
History of Planning in Deschutes County
Deschutes County's first Comprehensive Plan, ComprehensivePlan to 1990, was
adopted in 1970. To comply with newly adopted statewide planningregulations , r`' jESeo
a new plan was adopted in 1979, Deschutes CountyYear 2000 Comprehensive
wAl ~
Za
Plan ( 1979 Plan). In 1981, the 1979 Plan was acknowledgedas being in o j
compliance with the Statewide Goals. Along with the 1979 Plan, the County
adopted a backgrounddocument and map. The Deschutes CountyComprehensive
Plan Resource Element ( ResourceElement) contained valuable information pertaining to resources
and demographics. The map depicted the long-term generalland use categories for all lands in the
County.
Over time, the County amended the 1979 Plan to comply with changesinitiated by the State,
the Board of County Commissioners or property owners. Periodic Review, a plan update
process once required by the state, started in 1988 and was completed in 2003. Periodic
Review included major additions and amendments to the 1979 Plan to keep the Plan and its
policies consistent with evolving State planning regulations and local conditions. The 1979 Plan
was codified as Title 23 in the Deschutes County Code.
Unintentionally, the additions, amendments and codification of the Plan led to a document that
was no longer cohesive or user friendly. Some of the originalchapters remained static and
contained outdated information. New chapterswere added that were not formatted to match
earlier ones. In order to provide consistent and clear land use direction, the County initiated a
4 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 9 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance 20514
I COMMIENENSIVE PLANNING SECTION 1. 1 INTRODUCTION
major updateand rewrite of the 1979 Plan in 2008. This Plan, Deschutes CountyComprehensive
Pion, is a broad revision of the 1979 Plan.
Summaryof Deschutes CountyComprehensivePans
1970 Comprehensive Plan to 1990
1979 ComprehensivePlan to 2000
1988. 2003 Periodic Review
2011 ComprehensivePlan to 2030
Creating the Plan
Land use is a key component of a community's quality of life. Historically, regulationwas
initiated in this country to mitigate the negative impacts to communities that stemmed from
incompatible" land uses, like renderingplantsnext to homes. Yet findingthe balance between
controlling impacts for the publicwelfare and allowingindividual property rights remains
challenging. The United States Supreme Court in 1926 ruled in support of zoning in Villageof
Euclid, Ohio v Ambler Reality. In that case they held that land use is a reasonable extension of
police powers, the idea that the state may regulate behavior and enforce order to promote
generalwelfare, morals, health and safety.
The challengeis that most people want impacts from their neighbors' land uses controlled, but
they also want the right to use their own properties without restrictions. This makes land use
decisions often deeplypersonal and highlycontroversial. While consensus may not be possible,
one strategy is to search for common ground by buildingon community values.
In 2008, Deschutes County initiated public meetings to listen to
community values about land use issues. This plan integrates the
values communicated through those meetings with numerous
A&Lmm
studies documentingcurrent conditions and trends. It has been
reviewed for compliance with the Statewide PlanningGoals,
ORS's, OAR's and local ordinances.
Two sections were undertaken as complementaryprojects to the Plan update. the
TransportationSystem Plan (TSP) and destination resort mapping. In addition, two community
planswere initiated for areas that would benefit from local approaches to address specific
issues.
TransportationSystemPlan (TSP)
Destination Resort Remapping
Deschutes junction Policies
Terrebonne Community Plan
Tumalo Community Plan
Community Conversations
In May 2008 County staff and the Deschutes County PlanningCommission initiated a
community input process called CommunityConversations. Pour community involvement goals
evolved.
Encouragethe community to get involved in setting land use policy
Ensure the updated plan addresses community interests and values
DiscHurEs Counmr CompmmEmsrw PLAN - 2011
F9 e 9 % i i`6 RceiJ"%,fn0
N
Create significant and continuing opportunities for informal land use discussions
Familiarize the publicwith the purposes and processes of state land use regulations
SteeringCommittee Appointed
During the summer, the Board of County Commissioners designatedthe seven- member
PlanningCommission as the SteeringCommittee for the Comprehensive Flan. The Steering
Committee hosted 12 informal publicmeetings to review and discuss chapters from the existing
Plan. At each meeting the discussion focused on a current ComprehensiveFlan chapter, the
state requirements and current conditions. Some of these meetings included paneldiscussions
with stakeholders and experts.
CommunityAwareness
In the fall, a flyer was sent to 42, 500 households in the
unincorporatedareas of the County with their annual 2008
tax bills announcing upcoming SteeringCommittee meetings.
This flyer was also handed out at publicmeetings and events.
Additionally, a website was launched and continuallyupdated
to reflect each community conversation and steering
committee meeting. Other media outreach with radio,
television, and the local newspaper, the duf etin, maximized
awareness of the Flan update.
Stakeholder Outreach
w. ~,... r., rw.urr» e.. r
aa. i ur- grr
c„~~. N~aror
w, r s e. s,: n. wa.. a c> m+-~r. a- wd.. i bow br
w D- tl.Y Cary 4 M - e t0~ Y.
mu~ b~~. ~
olnwlm~.. p
Letters were sent to more than 150 governmental/ quasi-governmental agenciesand local
organizations offeringstaffs availability to meet with the agencies and organizations and/or
conduct a presentation for their members. The goal was to inform stakeholders about the Plan
update and discuss to any issues they would like the Plan update to address.
CommunityOutreach
Informal meetings were scheduled around the County to hear from the community. Staff
organized the County into seven management areas and held community listeningsessions in
five areas with rural populations (two areas were unpopulated Federal lands). Additional
meetings were held in Terrebonne, Tumalo and Deschutes Junction. Planners also staffed a
booth at the spring and fall 2009 Home and Garden Shows, to get input from members of the
community who traditionally do not attend land use meetings.
Draft ComprehensivePlan
On September 30, 2009 an updated draft ComprehensivePlan was released to the public. Ten
additional Steering Committee meetings and six open houses were scheduled in locations
around the County to gather public input on the draft Flan. The PlanningCommission spent the
next twelve months reviewing and revising the draft goalsand policiesin depth. A revised draft
was completedin fall of 2010 and notice of the first evidentiary hearingwas sent to the DLCD
on September 30, 2010.
Hearingsand Adoption
The PlanningCommission held public hearings on November 18, December 2 and December 9,
2010 and continued the hearings to December 16, 2010. Deliberations took place starting on
6 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 11 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance 2S" j
COMMMHENSIVE PLANNING SECTION 1.1 INTRODUCTION
December 16 and continued to January 6 and January13, 2011, when they voted to forward to
the Board of County Commissioners a recommendation to adopt the draft Comprehensive
Plan as modified.
The Board of County Commissioners held public hearings on the PlanningCommission
recommended Plan on March 29, March 31 and April 5, 2011. The hearings were continued
until May I I and May 31, 2011, at which time the hearing was closed. Deliberations and first
reading took placeJuly 6, the second reading was July25, with an effective date of October 24,
2011.
Data Collection
Creating a comprehensive plan also requires an understandingof current conditions and
anticipated trends. County staff worked with various state and federal agenciesto identify
updated information and policies. For many topics, detailed studies already existed. In other
arras, staff identified further research to be completed when resources become available.
Additionally, staff assembled reports relevant to the update. The primary documents and
websites used in gatheringinformation for the updatedPlan are referenced at the end of each
chapter.
As noted earlier, the Resource Element was adopted in 1979 to provide background
information on County resources and demographics. The Resource Element has been amended
over time, adding such studies as the Geothermal Element Qanuary 1985) or the Deschutes
County/City of Bend River Study (April 1986).
Plan Organization
Deschutes County Comprehensive Plan 2030 is organized into five chapters:
Chapter I Comprehensive Planning
Chapter2 Resource Management
Chapter3 Rural Growth Management
Chapter 4 Urban Growth Management
ChapterS SupplementalSections
Chapters 1-4 contain the following:
Background: Information providing context for the reason and process for includingthe goals
and policies.
Gods: A general description of what Deschutes County wants to achieve. The County will
direct resources and/or support partner agenciesand organizations to implement the goals
over the 20- yearPlan timeframe.
Policies: Statements of principles and guidelinesto aid decision makingby clarifying and providing
direction on meeting the Goals.
References: A list of resources used in the preparation of each chapter is included at the end of
each chapter.
Additionally, an action plan will be created under a separate process to implement the Plan
Goals and Policies.
DEscHuns CouNTY CompmENsiw PLAN- 2011 7
Fg e W YM " 4 '- 6 Rce' 4"-%f °
N
The land use Goals and Policies in this Plan are anticipatedto be completed over the next 20
years.
Future Updates
In order to keep pace with changing needs, environmental conditions, economics and
community values, this planneeds to be updatedand amended periodically. The State calls for a
periodic review to ensure the planstays current with changesin ORS and OARS. Although the
State Periodic Review process is no longer a requirement for Oregon counties, the entire plan
should be updatedat least every 20 years, with reviews occurring every five years. All Plan
update processes will take place with the benefit of a full range of community involvement,
includingpublic hearingsbefore the Deschutes County Planning Commission and the Board of
Commissioners. The procedures for amending the Comprehensive Plan are outlined in
Deschutes County Code, Chapter 22.
8 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 13 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance 291 "I I COMMNENSIVE PLANNING SECTION I. 1 INTRODUCTION
SECti.Ow 2. 2 COMvu.uwitU IwV01. VCVU,Cvvt
Background
Involvingthe publicin planningis a critical part of Oregon's land use system. Statewide Planning
Goal I, Citizen Involvement, is intended to ensure that the public has the opportunity to be
meaningfully involved in all phasesof the land use planningprocess. To participate in land use
decisions, the publicneeds to be notified of the proposalor project, understand the legal
framework for the decision and understand the implications of the decision.
Minimum land use noticing requirements and proceduresare written into Oregon Revised
Statute ( ORS) and County Code.
The legalframework for planningin Oregon starts with the Statewide PlanningGoals and
associated statutes and rules. The State land use program was intended to set some general
parameters for land use planningand protect resources, such as farm and forest lands that were
the Oregon's primary economic drivers. Althoughthe Statewide Goals have equal value, they
do not all provide the same level of detailed direction. Over time, State regulationshave been
amended or interpreted through changes to ORS, Statewide Goals, Oregon Administrative
Rules and case law. These changesand interpretations have provided legaland technical clarity,
but they have created a complex set of land use rules that are confusingto the public.
State land use regulations are implemented by local governments through Comprehensive Plan
policies, which in turn are implemented, in part, through land use codes such as zoning codes.
Writing new policies and code language is often referred to as the Legislative process because
this is where policydirection is set and regulationsare adopted. Local decision makers
determine within the State planningstructure, what policiesand codes best meet the needs and
values of the community.
Policyimplementationoccurs when land use codes are applied to specificprojects or proposals.
This is referred to as the Quasi-judicial process, because it is where the project or proposalis
judgedfor compliancewith existing codes based on findings. This is often the stage where the
public gets involved. An individual property owner proposes to do something with his or her
land. The decision to allow the proposal will be based solely on whether the proposal meets
the existingcriteria. The reasoning behind the existing regulationsis not the primary focus of
the discussion because that has been established through the adoption of the policy or code.
This can lead to the perception that community concerns are not beingheard. Involvingthe
public in land use policy setting and code writing helpsensure that they reflect community
values.
The final step, understanding the implications of a land use policy or a proposed project, is
achieved through planningstaff reports and Hearing Officer decisions that are written in clear
languagewith all technical terms explained and findings firmly established.
Advisory Committees
Advisory Committees provide a vital link between County government and its citizenry. The
descriptions below summarize the Deschutes County land use related advisory committees.
Du cHuTEs Cwm Comi Rw msm PLAN - 2011
Deschutes CountyPlanningCommission
The Deschutes County PlanningCommission provides recommendations to the Board of
County Commissioners on land use, primarily legislativecode changes, for the unincorporated
areas of the County. They also operate as the Goal I committee for community involvement.
The Deschutes County PlanningCommission is composed of seven volunteer members
appointed to four-year terms by the Board of County Commissioners ( Board). The Planning
Commission is established pursuant to ORS 21 S. 020 and 215. 030 and governed by County
Code 2. 52.
Membership of the commission is representative of the various geographic areas of the County.
As much as possible, members are selected through an open process that looks to balance the
diverse views of Deschutes County residents.
Historic Landmarks Commission
The Historic Landmarks Commission serves as a hearings body for matters concerning
historical districts, buildings and structures and sites within the County (and the cities of Bend,
La Pine, Redmond and Sisters). The Landmarks Commission is composed of nine voting and a
number of non- votingex- officio members who have demonstrated expertise in historic
preservation related disciplines. Commissioners serve four-year terms ( see also Section 2. 11).
Other Land Use Related AdvisoryGroups
Project Wildfire is a committee formed to coordinate, develop and implement strategies to
mitigate the effects of losses due to natural disasters that strike Deschutes County. Project
Wildfire is composed of IS to 27 members who reside or represent agencieswithin Deschutes
County. All members are appointed by the Board and serve four years ( see also Section 3.5).
The Deschutes Provisional Advisory Committee ( PAC) is one of 12 in the Western U.S. to
facilitate the successful implementationof the 1994 Record of Decision for Amendments to the
Forest Service and Bureau of Land ManagementPlanningDocuments within the Rangeof the
Northern SpottedOwl. Each PAC provides advice regarding implementation of a
comprehensive ecosystem management strategy for federal land within a province. Each PAC is
comprised of approximately 29 members and meets about four times annually, includingone or
two field trips, which give participants a broad perspective of Northwest Forest Plan provincial
accomplishments.
The Deschutes River Mitigationand Enhancement Programhelps achieve Oregon Department
of Fish and Wildlife ( ODFW) habitat and management goalsand objectives within the Upper
Deschutes River sub- basin, consistent with an agreement between the Central Oregon
Irrigation District ( COID) and ODFW. As part of that agreement COID provides ODFW with
funds to develop and implement a fish and wildlife habitat mitigation and enhancement program
for the Upper Deschutes River Basin. The Deschutes River Mitigationand Enhancement
Committee has seven voting members appointedto three-year terms by the Board ( see also
Section 23).
Community Involvement Program
Statewide PlanningGoal I requires a citizen involvement program with six components. The
required components and the primary methods of County implementation are described
below.
10
LC
DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 15 of 238 - Exhibit B to OrSrn~ E~ L ? raor
E PLANNING SECTION 1.2 COMMUNm INVOLVEMENT
Citizen Involvement - Provide for widespreadcitizen involvement.
The PlanningCommission acts as the committee for community involvement.
Communication - Assure effective two- way communications between local officials and
citizens.
This is accomplished through a variety of techniques, including newsletters, email lists,
displayads or mailings.
Citizen Influence - Provide opportunities for citizens to be involved in all phasesof the
planningprocess
Deschutes County Code Title 22 describes land use noticing and procedures.
Technical Information - Assure technical information is available in an understandable
form.
Clearly written staff reports assure all information is available and comprehensible.
Feedback mechanisms - Assure that citizens get responses from policy makers.
A written record is maintained for all formal proposals and proceduresensure that
those who participate and request notification are notified of the decision.
Financial support - Ensure adequate funding for the citizen involvement program.
Fundingand staffingare maintained for the PlanningCommission and for sending
required notices.
The list above describes the minimum requirements. Deschutes County takes a more active
stand, maintaining an updated website, holding public meetings around the County and reaching
out to the community.
DtscHuTEs CouNTY ComPREHENsivE PLAN- 2011 11
F" & " N M1i MMMe1MA° BlIrY
1NvoLvEMrIT
Sectiow 2. 2 Covu.w~.uwitl~ IwvolvCvu.Cwt Pol. ici.Cs
Goal and Policies
Goal I Maintain an active and open community involvement program that is
accessible to all members of the community and engages the
community during development and implementation of land use
policies and codes.
Policy 1. 2.1 This section serves as the Community Involvement Program.
Policy 1. 2.2 The PlanningCommission will be the Committee for Community Involvement,
with County support.
a. Maintain funding and staffing.
b. Provide regularupdates, speakers, panel discussions and handouts on land use
law and policy.
c. Appoint members through an open and public process to reflect the
geographicareas and diverse values of Deschutes County residents.
d. Meet with the Board of County Commissioners at least once a year to
coordinate planning policiesand activities.
e. Complete an annual report on community involvement implementation for
the State Citizen Involvement Advisory Committee, the Board of County
Commissioners and the public.
Policy 1. 2.3 Encouragecommunity participation in planningthrough a variety of tools and
techniques, including:
a. Post all planningapplications, decisions, projects and plans on the County
website;
b. Provide staff reports for comprehensive planand zoning text amendments to
the public in a timely manner;
c. Write all County planningdocuments to be accessible and understandable to
the general public, with acronyms spelled out and technical language
explained;
d. Hold area. specificcomprehensive plan and zoning text amendment public
hearings in locations and at times convenient to area residents, as
appropriate;
e. Requirepre- applicationmeetings for comprehensive plan and zoning text
amendments; and for major or potentially contentious projects encourage the
applicantsto hold an informal community meeting before submittingan
application.
Policy 1. 2.4 Reach out to the community to discuss and respond to land use concerns in a
timely manner.
Policy 1. 2.5 Ensure effective, efficient planningprocedures.
12 /~
R Lc p
DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 17 of 238 - Exhibit B to Or~ af1C@ LQ~I - WNSIVE
BANNING SECTION 1.2 COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT
ec %ow ~..3 LQ VIA Vse PLa V%,wLwg
Background
This section establishes the overall framework for the development and implementationof
plans and policies for land use within the County. Statewide planningguidelinesrequire each
county to establish a land use planningprocess based on current issues and factual information.
The policies in this section assure that the County's land use policies are current, fact- based
and responsive to change. The policies recognize the need for coordination between the cities
and the County and provide full public access to Plan documents and the information upon
which land use decisions are based.
As noted throughout this Plan, there are two important things to remember. First, the Oregon
land use system draws a bright line between rural and urban lands and promotes new growth
and infrastructure in urban areas. Growth on rural lands is limited in order to protect farms,
forests, open spaces and natural resources. Deschutes County is required to planin compliance
with the State planningsystem in order to promote orderly and efficient growth and protect
the resources important to Oregonians.
Second, land use is often controversial because ultimately it can intermix community values
with private property rights and expectations. A property owner may choose to keep pigs, or
start a day care center or build a windmill. For each of those uses there may be impacts on the
neighborsin the form of odors, traffic or blocked views. Land use regulationsattempt to
achieve a balance between giving property owners the freedom to use their property however
they choose while maintaining the livability of the neighborhoodand wider community. This
Plan recognizes those tensions that occur when creating land use policies.
Land Use
Statewide PlanningGoal 2 Land Use Planning, requires a fact- based land use planningprocess
and policy framework to guideland use decisions. It requires comprehensive planning that
identifies issues and complies with Statewide PlanningGoals. Goal 2 also addresses the process
to allow exceptions to Statewide Goals ( see also Section S. 10).
In 1979 the County compliedwith the Statewide planningsystem by writing a Comprehensive
Plan. From 1988. 2003 the County underwent State mandated Periodic Review to ensure the
Plan was still in compliancewith changingState regulations. The 2008- 2011 update was done
outside of Periodic Review, which is no longer required for Oregon counties. Instead, the
County recognizedthat to remain valid the ComprehensivePlan needed to be completely
rewritten and updated. For historic reference, a copy of the ComprehensivePlan replacedby
this Plan will remain available on the County website. This Plan is a polity document based on
existing facts and community values. No specific land use designation changes are included in
the 2008- 2011 Plan update. Instead, this Plan revisits each Statewide Goal, its existing Goals and
Policies, community values and new issues requiring policy direction. It lays out a blueprint for
the future and defines what matters to County residents and businesses through updated Goals
and Policies.
DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPR04ENSM PLAN - 2011 13
R RMH i t 59FORce1 0&
The Comprehensive Plan is implemented primarily through zoning and the zoning code must be
regularlyreviewed for compliancewith the Plan. However, there are other tools for
implementation, such as capitalimprovement plans, partnershipsor incentive programs. To
assure this Plan remains useful, an action plan identifying various ideas for implementing
ComprehensivePlan policies will be created. The action plan will be annually updated and
reviewed to identify and prioritize work plansfor the coming year.
Land Ownership and jurisdiction
When considering land use in Deschutes County two important factors are the amount of
public ownership and which lands are under County jurisdiction. Table 1. 3.1 shows nearly 80%
of land in the County is publically owned. The implications of the largetracts of public land
range from the loss of tax revenue to having vast open lands available for recreation for both
tourists and residents.
Table 1. 3.1 - Public Land in Deschutes County 2010
Ownership Aare* Percent
Total County Acres 1, 913,482 100%
Federal Government 1, 466,06 6. 6%
State Government 53,051 2. 8%
County Government 10,434 0. 6%
Total Public Lands 1,5 9, 552 179. 9%
Acres of orcels - does not includ e roads. right- ol-ways. lakes. riven or other muWcly-owned parcels such
u dties or park districts -
Source ounty Geographical Information System
Table 1. 3.2 shows jurisdictional responsibilities. Note that the federal government, primarily
through the Bureau of Land Managementand the U.S. Forest Service, owns over 76% of the
land in the County. Federal lands are not required to conform to local regulations, such as
zoning. They rely on their own resource plans. This means a majority of lands in the County are
not under County jurisdiction. However, they remain in this Plan to encourage
intergovernmentalpolicy coordination.
Table 1. 3.2 - 2010 Land jurisdiction in Deschutes County 2010
jwris* ction Acres* Percent
Total County Acres 1, 913,482 100%
Federal Government 1, 466,06 6. 6%
Bend Urban Growth Boundary 17,534 0. 9ye
La ine Urban Growth Boundary 4, 00E 0. 2%
Redmond Urban Growth Bounds 10,733 0. 6%
Sisters Urban Growth Boundary 1, 023 0. 1%
Total cities 33, 298 1. 1%
Total Other jurisdiction 1, 499,365 4%
Acres of parcels - does not includes roads. riwaef. ways. lakes vW river s
Source: County Geographical Infwmason System
In addition to Federal lands, four cities have primary jurisdiction over less than 2% of lands in
the County. This includes lands outside the incorporated city boundaries, but inside urban
growth boundaries. The urban growth boundaries define a municipality's 20-yearland supply to
accommodate future growth. These lands are managedby the cities through intergovernmental
14 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 19 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance 2011 _~trlllt
I COM REHENSIVEPLANNING SECTION 1.3 LAND USE
agreements between the cities and the County. The bottom line is that the County has land use
jurisdiction over approximately 22% of the land base.
Comprehensive Plan Map Designations
The ComprehensivePlan Map (Map) illustrates the County's goatsand policies. The Map
describes land use categories that provide for various types of developmentand conservation
for the rural area during the 20-yearplanningperiod.
Each Comprehensive Plan map designationprovides the land use framework for establishing
zoning districts. Zoning defines in detail what uses are allowed for each area. The Deschutes
County Comprehensive Plan and Zoning Maps exist in official replica form as an electronic map
layer within the County GeographicInformation System. Other maps illustratingvarious
ComprehensivePlan areas, such as rural commercial properties, are available to the public for
informational purposes.
The Comprehensive Plan map designations are defined below.
Agriculture: To preserve and maintain agricultural lands for farm use.
Airport Development To allow developmentcompatiblewith airport use while mitigating impacts
on surroundinglands.
Destination Resort CombiningZone. To show lands eligiblefor siting a destination resort.
Forest To conserve forest lands for multiple forest uses.
OpenSpaceand Conservation. To protect natural and scenic open spaces, includingareas with
fragile, unusual or unique qualities.
Rural Residential ExceptionAreas. To provide opportunities for rural residential livingoutside
urban growth boundaries and unincorporated communities, consistent with efficient planningof
public services.
SurfaceMining. To protect surface mining resources from development impacts while protecting
development from mining impacts.
Resort Community. To define rural areas with existing resort developmentthat are not classified
as a destination resort, based on Oregon Administrative Rule 660-22 or its successor.
Rural Community. To define rural areas with limited existing urban-style development, based on
Oregon Administrative Rule 660- 22 or its successor.
Rural Service Center. To define rural areas with minimal commercial development as well as
some residential uses, based on Oregon Administrative Rule 660.22 or its successor.
Urban UnincorporatedCommunity. To define rural areas with existing urban development, based
on Oregon Administrative Rule 660-22 or its successor.
Rural Commercial. To define existing areas of isolated rural commercial development that do not
fit under Oregon Administrative Rule 660-22.
Rural Industrial: To define existing areas of isolated rural industrial developmentthat do not fit
under Oregon Administrative Rule 660-22.
McHuTts COUNTY CQMMMHENsra PLAN- 2011 Is
RM!'" Merl 1ff WJ
Urban Growth boundaries: To define land that providesfor urban developmentneeds and
identifies and separates urban and urbanizable land from rural land
Bend Urban Area Reserve: To define lands outside of Bend's Urban Growth Boundarybut within
its General Plan area that are expected to be brought into the Urban Growth Boundary.
Redmond Urban Reserve Area: To define Redmond's additional 30-yeargrowth boundary for
lands expected to be brought into the Urban Growth Boundary.
Comprehensive Plan Map Designations and Associated Zoning
Table 1. 3.3 lists existing ComprehensivePlan designations and related Zoning districts. Some
Plan designationsapply County-wide and some only apply to designated areas of existing
development. The Destination Resort designationis a combining zone that supplements the
underlyingzoning. Most of the area- specificdesignationsfall under the State rules for
Unincorporated Communities and are detailed in Chapter 4 of this Plan. The Rural Commercial
and Rural Industrial areas are detailed in Chapter 3 under Rural Economy.
Table 1. 3.3 - Comprehensive Plan and Zoning Code Designations
Comprehensive Plan Designation Associated Deschutes CountyZoning Code
Agriculture Title IS -All IN subiones
Airport Development Tide 18 - AD, AS
Destination Resort CombiningZone OR
Forest Title 18 - - 1, F-2
Open Spaceand Conservation Tide IS: OSgC
Rural Residential Exception Area isle 18 - RR- 10 and MUA-10
Surface Mining itte 18 - SM
Area specificdesignations
Resort Community
Title 18 - AN tack Butte Ranch and Inn of the 7th
Mountain/Wid ' Creek subzones
Rural Community Title 18 - AN umalo and Terrebonne subzones
Rural Service Center Tide IS - AN KSC zones
Urban Unincorporated Community le 18 - AN Sunriver subzonesfit
Rural Commercial Tide 18 - Rural Commercial
Rural industrial Tide 18 - Rural Industrial
Eland Urban Growth Area ide 19 - LIAR. 10, SM, SR 2 ' h, PF, FP
Redmond Urban Growth Area Title 20 - UH- 10
Sisters Urban Growth Area itle 21 - LIAR. 10, OA, FP
Redmond Urban Reserve Area Title 18 - RU
Source County GeoV20ial Information Srstern and Desdiuces County Code
Intergovernmental and Other Coordination
RegionalCoordination
Deschutes County is responsiblefor coordinatingall planningactivities affectingland uses within
the County.
Coordinatingpopulation forecasts
Coordinating with special districts, includingirrigation districts, park districts, school
districts, sewer districts, and water districts
16 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 21 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance 2011 SffM
I COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING SECTION 1.3 F ANo UsE
Establishing Cooperation Agreements with special districts that provide an urban service
in a UGB
Coordinating with the U.S. Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management
Joint Management Agreementswith municipalities for managingurban growth areas ( areas
outside city limits, but inside a UGB)
EstablishingUrban Reserve Areas
The County recognizes the importance of working closelyand cooperatively with the cities of
Bend, La Pine, Redmond and Sisters, as well as special districts and state and federal agencies, to
ensure a coordinated approach to future growth and conservation.
CooperativeAgreements
Cities are required to enter into a cooperative agreement with each special district that
provides an urban service within a UGB. The appropriate city may also enter into a cooperative
agreement with any other special district operating within a UGB.
Urban Service Agreements
Deschutes County has the responsibility for negotiating urban service agreements with
representatives of all cities and special districts that provide, or declare an interest in providing,
urban services inside an Urban Growth Boundary. Urban service means:
Sanitary sewers;
Water;
Fire protection;
Parks;
Open space;
Recreation; and
Streets, roads and mass transit.
Special Districts
SpecialDistricts
Specialdistricts are defined in ORS 198. 010 and are recognized as government bodies. Special
districts include the following.
Table 1. 3.4 - Special Districts
Utility district Rural fire Protection district
Water supplydistrict rri tion district
Cemetery maintenance district Drainagedistrict
rk and recreation district organized Water improvement district
Mass transit district Water control district
Metropolitan service district organized Vector control district
Specialroad district 9- 1-1 communications district
Road assessment district Geothermal hatin district
Highwaylightingdistrict Transportationdistrict
Health district Libra district
Sanitarydistrict Soil S water conservation district
nitary authority, water authority or joint
water and sanitary authority
DEscHu ES COUNTY COMMtEHENSM RAN - 2011 17
G" e &09r- Mi fib" i" 1ARMIl 0&
Other Coordination
Besides intergovernmentalcoordination, Deschutes County generallysupports coordination
and partnershipswith non- profitsand other organizations that are working with residents to
improve the quality of life in the County. There are groups working to address issues from
affordable housingto clean rivers, from economic developmentto fire- free neighborhoods.
Two examples of community projects that were completed from 2006- 2010 are the Bend 2030
Plan and the Deschutes County Greenprint, both created after extensive public outreach. Note
that the nature and extent of the County's role will vary based on County priorities at any
given time and that coordination on a project does not ensure County support of every action
undertaken on that project. Still, partnering is an efficient and effective method of addressing
important issues.
County-Owned property
When considering land use it is important to consider County-owned lands, which are managed
through Deschutes County Code Title 11. As of 2009 there were nearly700 individual parcels
owned by the County, totaling almost 8, 000acres. Managementof these properties consists of
definingappropriate uses for different parcels, cleaningup illegaldumpsites, fire hazard
reduction and public auction. Many of these properties were acquired through foreclosure for
non- payment of property taxes. It is anticipated that the County will continue to acquire lands
through foreclosure.
Startingin 1994 the County beganto designatecertain sensitive properties alongrivers, creeks
or streams or with wildlife, wetlands or other values, as park lands. The intent was not to
develop these lands for park use but rather to preserve lands with valuable resources. The park
designation means that the lands would be retained in public ownership unless there was a
public hearing and the Board of County Commissioners determined that sellingwas in the best
interest of the public. ORS 275. 330 governs the disposal of these lands, stating that if they are
sold the proceeds must be dedicated to park or recreation purposes. As of 2009, there were
approximately70 properties designated as park lands under the following Orders.
Order #
94. 138
96- 071
97- 147
97. 151
96- 127
2004-001
2004-037
2006.019
18 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 23 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance 2011 StTM
I CoMnrEHENWA PLANNING SECnoN 1.3 LANo UsE
sect' o vt, 2. 3 La &ol e to ww~v~,r~ T> oLLoLes
Goals and Policies
Goal 1 Maintain an open and public land use process in which decisions are
based on the objective evaluation of facts.
Policy 1. 3.1 Protect the limited amount of privately-owned land in Deschutes County
through consideration of private property rights and economic impacts to
property owners and the community when crating and revising land use policies
and regulations.
a. Evaluate tools such as transfer of development rights programs that can be
used to protect private property.
Policy 1. 3.2 Consider sustainability and cumulative impacts when creating and revising land
use policies and regulations.
Policy 1. 3.3 Involve the public when amending County Code.
Policy 1. 3.4 Maintain public records which support the Comprehensive Plan and other land
use decisions.
Policy 1. 3.5 Review the Comprehensive Plan every five years and update as needed, in order
to ensure it responds to current conditions, issues and opportunities, as well as
amended State Statute, Oregon Administrative Rules and cue law.
Policy 1. 3.6 Maintain and enhance web- based property-specific information.
Policy 1. 3.7 The Deschutes County Comprehensive Plan Map will be retained in official
replica form as an electronic map layer within the County Geographic
Information Systemand is adoptedas part of this Plan.
Policy 1. 3.8 Implement, as appropriate, recommendations in the Final Report from the
Oregon Task Force on Land Use Planningdated January2009.
Policy 1. 3.9 A list of actions to implementthis ComprehensivePlan shall be created,
maintained and reviewed yearlyby the Community DevelopmentDepartment
and the Board of County Commissioners.
Goal 2 Promote regional cooperation and partnerships on planning Issues.
Policy 1.3. 10 Regularlyreview intergovernmentaland urban management agreements, and
update as needed.
Policy 1. 3.11 Participate in and, where appropriate, coordinate regional planning efforts.
a. Provide affected agencies, includingirrigation districts, an opportunity to
comment and coordinate on land use policies or actions that would impact
their jurisdictions.
Policy 1. 3.12 Support non- profit or public acquisition of lands determined through an
extensive public process to have significant value to the community.
Policy 1. 3.13 Support implementationof the Bend 2030 Plan and incorporate, as appropriate,
elements from the Bend 2030 Plan into this Plan.
DEScmuTts COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011 19
F 41Rg M 6& Rd% ff-%&
Goal 3 Manage County owned lands efficiently, effectively, flexibly and in a
manner that balances the needs of County residents.
Policy 1. 3.14 Where feasible, maintain and manage County owned properties as follows:
a. Managedesignated park lands to preserve the values defined in the park
designation;
b. Permit public access to County owned lands designatedas parks unless
posted otherwise;
c. Encourageproperties located alongrivers, streams or creeks or containing
significantwildlife, scenic or open space values to be designated as park land.
20 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 25 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance 2011 _~bTER
I COMMEHENVA PLANNING SECnoN 1.3 LANo UsE
chapter s PrLvu.an tz.e ferewces
References'
1. Oregon Department of Land Conservation and Development. Goal I: Citizen
Involvement. Oregon's Statewide PlanningGoals and Guidelines.
2. Puttingthe People in Planning: A Primer on Public Participationin Planning, produced by
Oregon's Citizen Involvement Advisory Committee - Third Edition - May 2008
3. Oregon. Department of Land Conservation and Development. Goal 2: Land Use Planning.
Oregon's Statewide PlanningGoals and Guidelines.
4. Oregon Task Force on Land Use Planning, Final Report to the 2009 Oregon Legislature,
January2009
S. Oregon Revised Statute 197, particularly:
a. 197. 173-197. 200 Comprehensive PlanningResponsibilities
b. 197. 201-197. 283 Goals Compliance
c. 197. 610-197- 65 I Post- AcknowledgementProcedures
6. Oregon Administrative Rules Chapter 660, particularly:
a. 660- 003 Acknowledgementof Compliance
b. 660- 004 Goal 2 Exceptions Process
c. 660- 015 Statewide PlanningGoals and Guidelines
d. 660- 018 Post- AcknowledgementAmendments
7. Bend 2030 at http:// bend2030.oEg
8. Oregon's Playground Prepares for the Future: A Greenprint for Deschutes County. The
Trust for Public Land. 2010
The references listed are provided for the convenience of the public and are not legally adopted into this Plan.
McHUTES COUNTY CompREHENsivE RM1- 2011 21
45-
Er Am6AA
011 , rc~
r
COMpR6ht6NSfVE
CYPLAN LtT? DATE
Page 27 of 238 - Exhibit i3 to Ordinance 2011- 003
sect' Love, 2.:. 1vvtroolu.ct'ovti
Background
Resource lands are essentially available assets. In 1973 Oregon passedlegislationwith the intent
of providing statewide protection to many of Oregon's land use resources. At that time,
farmingand wood products were the primary economic drivers for the State, so farm and
forest lands were specificallynoted for protection and are often referred to as resource lands.
Other resources were also identified. The structure for protecting Oregon's lands is provided
by five of the 19 Statewide Planning Goals and the associated Oregon Revised Statutes ( ORS)
and Oregon Administrative Rules ( OAR). This chapter includes resources protected through
the Statewide Goals.
Farm lands are protected by Statewide Goal 3, Agricultural Lands, ORS 215 and OAR 660- 033.
Goal 3 requires all counties to inventory and protect farm lands. The ORSs and OARS further
define which land should be designatedfarm land and what uses are permissible. The State
regulationsfor managingfarm lands are comprehensive and complex.
Forest lands are protected by Statewide Goal 4, Forest Lands, various sections of ORS and
OAR 660- 006. The Goal again requires all counties to inventory forest lands and adopt policies
that will conserve forest lands for forest uses.
Statewide Goal 5, Natural Resources, Scenic and Historic Areas and Open Spaces, establishes a
process for inventorying and evaluatingmore than a dozen natural and cultural resources. The
process is defined in OAR 660. 016 and OAR 660- 023. If a resource is found to be significant,
local government can protect it, allow uses that conflict with it, or find a balance. These are
often referred as Goal 5 resources.
Two additional goals are associated with resource protection but do not apply to specific lands.
Statewide Goal 6, Air, Water and Land Resources Quality, requires compliancewith Federal
and State regulations regarding air, water and land quality. Statewide Goal 13, Energy, requires
land to be managedand controlled to maximize the conservation of energy based on sound
economic principles. These two goalsprotect our air, water, land and environment.
Purpose
The concept of sustainabilityis that resources used today should be managed so that there are
still resources available for future generations. Sustainability encourages balancingeconomic,
environmental and social concerns. The Deschutes County ComprehensivePlan has long
acknowledged this through policies that require new development to consider the carrying
capacity of environment.
The purpose of the Resource Management chapter is to effectivelymanage Deschutes County's
agricultural, forest, natural and cultural resources to meet the needs of today while retaining
their value for future generations. These resources include:
Resource Lands
Agricultural lands ( Section 2.2)
Forest lands ( Section 2.3)
2 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 28 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance 26
2 RESOURCEMANAGEMENT SECTION 2.1 INTRooucnoM
Other Resources
Goal 5 Overview ( Section 2.4)
Water Resources ( Section 2.S)
Wildlife ( Section 2.6)
Open Spaces, Scenic Views and Sites ( Section 2.7)
EnergyResources ( Section 2.8)
Environmental Quality (Section 2.9)
Mineral and AggregateResources ( Section 2. 10)
Historic and Cultural Resources ( Section 2. 11)
Key Issues
This chapter generated considerable discussion during the publicoutreach for the 2008- 2011
Plan update. There was strong community support for protecting the natural resources that
define Deschutes County, including its water and wildlife. Yet there was also concern
expressed over the intrusive nature of government regulations. There is an inherent tension
between resource protection and private property rights. A regulation written to protect a
riparian area does so by restricting the uses allowed on that property. Often there is limited
agreement over whether or how much regulationis necessary.
Chapter 2 providesrecommendations to protect State and locally defined community
resources that are important to the local economy and region's quality of life. Yet, the policies
in this chapter also acknowledgethat sometimes the appropriate government action is to
create incentives or remove obstacles.
DESCHUrES COUNTY COMINHINSPA
PLAN-2011
C pp ~ p
PareZJA CI WbV61%%aL "?% N
5ecti oo, 2. 2 Ag r% aL tu. ra L La viAs
Background
Protectingfarm lands and the economic benefits of agricultureis one of the primary goalsof
the Oregon land use system. Statewide PlanningGoal 3 establishes farmland identification and
protection standards which must be met by local governments. The Goal requires farm lands to
be preservedfor farm uses, consistent with existing and future needs for agriculturalproducts,
forest and open space. Additional criteria for Goal 3 can be found in Oregon Revised Statute
ORS) 215 and in Oregon Administrative Rule ( OAR) 660-33. These criteria spell out in
considerable detail which lands shall be designated as farm lands and what uses are permissible.
The main concept is that local governments must inventory and protect farm lands though the
use of Exclusive Farm Use ( EFU) zones that provide primarily for the continuation of
commercial-scale agriculture, including farm operations, marketing outlets and the agricultural
support system. To provide a science based method of identifyingfarm lands, Statewide Goal 3
defines agriculturallands primarily through soil classifications. However, other lands can, and
often must, be classified for farmingbased on the criterion ` suitable for firm us*' or beingnear
agriculturallands.
Excerpt from Statewide Planning Goal 3
AgriculturalLand in eastern Oregonis land of predominantlyOass I, It, III, IV, V
and VI soils as identified in the Soil CapabilityClassificationSystemof the United States
Soil Conservation Service, and other lands which are suitable for farm use taking into
consideration soil fertility, suitability for grazing climatic conditions, existingand future
availabilityof water for farm irrigation purposes, existingland- use patterns,
technologicaland energy inputs required, or acceptedfarming practices. Lands in other
classes which are necessary to permit form practicesto be undertaken on adjacentor
nearbylands, shall be included as agriculturalland in any event.
More detailed soil data to define agriculturalland may be used by local governments if
such data permits achievement of this goal.
Agriculturalland does not include land within acknowledgedurban growthboundaries
or land within acknowledgedexceptionsto Goals 3 or 4."
Besides Statewide Goal 3, farming is protected in Oregon by "right- to-farm" law ( ORS 30. 930-
047). This law protects commercial farms from nuisance suits brought about by generally
accepted farmingpractices, such as noise, dust or odors.
County Agricultural Designations
Farm land designations in Deschutes County have been and continue to be highlycontroversial.
In designatingfarm lands in the late 1970s, the County was hamperedby the limited availability
of soil maps. Where soil maps existed those were consulted, but the County also included
irrigated lands and lands receiving farm deferrals for the previous five years. Ultimately, seven
separate agriculturalareas were identified, each specifying minimum lot sites. In general, non-
urban, non- forest, undevelopedand uncommitted lands were determined to be farm lands.
4 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 30 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance
ouacE MANAGEMENT SEcnov 2.2 AGNUCULTURAL LANDS
Despite designating many agriculturalareas by default, the 1979 Resource Element noted that
based on agriculturaldeterminants of soils, water, climate and economics, profitablefarmingin
the County remained difficult. The findingsfor protecting non- profitableagriculturalland noted
the aesthetic value of farm land, the costs and hazards of allowing local development and the
economic importance rural open space.
In 1992 a commercial farm study was completed as part of the State required periodic review
process. The study concluded that irrigation is the controlling variable for defining farm lands in
Deschutes County. Soil classifications improve when water is available. Seven new agricultural
subzones were identified based on the factual data provided in the 1992 study and minimum
acreages were defined based on the typical number of irrigated acres used by commercial farms
in that particular subzone (with the exception of the Horse Ridgesubzone).
Uke the 1979 Resource Element, the 1992 farm study noted the challengesof local commercial
farming. The highelevation ( 2700-3500 feet), short growing season ( 88- 100 days), low rainfall
and distance to major markets hamper profitability. The 1992 study resulted in minimum lot
sizes that are smaller than the State requirement of 80 acres for firm land and 160 acres for
range land. These minimum lot sizes are unique in Oregon and were acknowledged as in
compliance with Goal 3 by the Oregon Land Conservation and Development Commission. In
general, County farm designations are effectively protecting farm lands while allowinglimited
land divisions.
Deschutes County Agricultural Sub- Zones
As noted above, the County maintains a unique set of farm sub- zones based on the average
number of irrigated acres for each type of farm land as determined in the 1992 farm study.
Irrigated land divisions in each sub- zone must result in parcels that retain the acreages shown in
Table 2. 2.1.
Table 2. 2.1 - Exclusive Farm Use Subzones
Subzone Name
Minimum
Acres profile
Lower Bridge 130 lrri ted field crops, hay and pasture
Sisters/ Cloverdale 63 Irrigatedalfalfa, hay and pasture, wooded grazing
and some field crops
Terrebonne 35 Irritated hayand pasture
umalo/ Redmond/Bend 23 Irri ted pasture and some hay
A61-fa 36 Irri ted ha and ture
La Pine 37 Riparianmeadows, in and meadow hay
Horse Ride East 20 RangelandVwing
r_ rer_cc Deschutts aunty arm Study
Irrigation Districts
As shown in the 1992 farm study, irrigation and irrigation districts are instrumental factors for
Deschutes County agriculture. Irrigation districts in Oregon are organizedas SpecialDistricts
under ORS Chapter 545. The districts are created for the purpose of deliveringwater to their
patrons. As such they are effectively non-profit water user associations. In addition to
irrigation, these districts also supply a number of other uses, includingmunicipal, industrial, and
DESCHUTES COUNTY
CoMPRIMENSSIVIE
PLAN
p-
2011
C
fAL (
ANDS
Prd~~rL3 ~ Td C7T~ f11
pond maintenance. However, by and largethe districts exist for
the purposes of delivering irrigation.
Seven districts, which withdraw their water supplyfrom the
Deschutes River Basin, have formed an intergovernmental unit
called a " board of control" under ORS 190. 125. This
organizationalstructure allows the districts to work together as
a unit in implementingwater conservation projects, providing
educational resources, utilizing equipment and for other joint
purposes. A keygoalfor the Deschutes Basin Board of Control
is to preserve agriculturaluses in those areas where irrigation
improves soils to class VI or better.
The six irrigation districts listed below serve residents or have facilities within Deschutes
County and are members of the Deschutes Basin Board of Control.
Arnold IrrigationDistrict
The present Arnold Irrigation District was first organizedas the Arnold Irrigation Companyon
December 27, 1904 and became official on January 9, 1905. As of 2010 the district manages
approximately65 miles of canals, ditches and pipes in an area of approximately 18, 560 acres.
Central OregonIrrigation District
The Central Oregon Irrigation District ( COID) was established in 1918. The District provides
water for approximately45, 000 acres within an 180,000 acre area in Central Oregon. More
than 700 miles of canals provide agriculturaland industrial water to irrigate Terrebonne,
Redmond, Bend, Alfalfa and Powell Butte areas. In addition, COID provides water to the City
of Redmond and numerous subdivisions. In Bend, many parks and schools receive water
through the COID system. COID is also the managingpartner in the operation of the 55, 000
acre foot Crane Prairie Reservoir, located on the east side of the Central Cascades.
North Unit IrrigationDistrict
The North Unit Irrigation District ( NUID) was organizedin 1916. As part of the Reclamation
Act of 1902, Congressapproved the Deschutes Project and in 1927 beganconstruction of the
project under the direction of the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation. The project was completed in
1949 allowing NUID to serve nearly S0, 000 acres. Today NUID is the second largestirrigation
district in Oregon, serving approximately 59, 000 acres in Jefferson County. NUID maintains
facilities in Deschutes County, including Wickiup Dam, Bend Headworks and the North Unit
Irrigation Canal. NUID has a long- standingrelationship with the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation as a
result of the Deschutes Project
SwalleyIrrigation District
The Swalley Irrigation District was organized as the Deschutes Reclamation and Irrigation
Company (DRIC) in 1899. In 1994 the shareholders of the DRIC voted to incorporate as an
irrigation district and took the name of SwalleyIrrigation District. The District has 28 miles of
canals and laterals providingwater to 667 customers.
6 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 32 of 238 - Exhibit B to OrdinancVMPI
OURCE MANAGEMENT SECTION 2.2 AGRICULTURAL LANDS
Three Sisters IrrigationDistrict
The Three Sisters Irritation District ( formerly Squaw Creek Irrigation District) was founded in
1917 from the Squaw Creek Irrigation Company and the Cloverdale Irrigation Company. They
were founded in 1891 and 1903 respectively, making Three Sisters Irrigation District one of the
oldest such districts in Oregon. The District serves approximately 175 water users over
approximately7, 568 acres.
Tumalo Irrigation District
Originally known as the Tumalo Project, Tumalo Irrigation District started in 1904. In 1922 the
Project reorganized as an irrigation district under Oregon state laws. The District serves
approximately 60 square miles, irrigating approximately8, 093 acres, and has over 80 miles of
canals, laterals and ditches serving 635 landowners.
Deschutes County Agriculture 2007 - 2009
The following statistics provide a snapshot of farming in Deschutes County.
Source. CountyGIS data
Approximately 36% of the County or more than 700,000 acres are designated as
Agriculture on the ComprehensivePlan map. Of that acreage, 69% is public, primarily
Federal ownership leavingapproximately224,000 acres privatelyheld.
160,078 acres of privatelyowned farm lands in the County receive specialtax assessment
for farm use.
Of the acres receiving farm tax assessments, 44, 221 are irrigated.
In 2008 there were 3, 725agriculturalparcels less than five acres.
Source. OregonState UniversityExtension OregonAgriculturalInformation Network, Deschutes County
AgriculturalCommoditySales for 2009 ( preliminaryestimate)
19, 792,000 in agricultural sales, a drop from the 2008 preliminary estimate of
25, 991,000. This follows slight upturns in sales between 2006- 2008.
62% of agriculture sales are in crops and M in livestock. The primary crops are hayand
alfalfa hay while the primary livestock is cattle. The biggestdownturns for 2009 are non-
alfalfa hay and cattle.
Source. United States Department of Agriculture, National AgriculturalStatistics Service 2007 Census
of Agriculture
There are 1, 405farms in Deschutes County residing on 129,369 acres
Average farm size 92 acres
Approximately 24% of farms are under 10 acres and 78X are under 50 acres
Total net cash farm income is negative
59% of farmers list their primary occupation as ' Other' rather than farming
The above data highlightsthe fact that farming in Deschutes
77
County is generallynot commerciallyprofitable. Fora
majority of farmers, farmingis not a sustaining economic
activity, but rather a lifestyle choice. Livingon a farm and
farmingas a secondary economic activity acknowledgea
shift from commercial farmingtowards the benefits of a
rural lifestyle.
DiscHUTis COUNTY COMMttHENsm ftAN - 2011
Farm Trends 2010
Whatever the challenges, agricultureis part of Deschutes County's culture and rural lifestyle.
During the public input process, various ideas were discussed on how to preserve agricultural
lands, open spaces and rural character of the County, while enablinglandowners to make a
living. The following ideas identify current trends that could be promoted by the County in
conjunction with the local extension service and other agenciesand organizations. It is
important to emphasize that new uses must conform to State regulations.
Alternative energy. Development of small alternative energy projects would promote local
energy self- sufficiency, using Central Oregon's sun, wind, thermal, hydropower and biomass
resources. Largeragricultural parcels could be used as commercial wind or solar farms to
provide renewable energy as well as income to landowners.
Alternative uses: There is interest in allowingnon- farm uses on farm lands to take advantageof
agrarian lifestylesand Central Oregon's setting. Ideas being discussed include agri- tourismor
hostingweddings. Nonetheless, new non- farm uses must be evaluated to ensure they are
compatiblewith ORS and OARS as well as existing land uses and zoning.
Local markets: Products from small farms are often sold to local markets. Additionally local
consumption saves on transportation and energy, allowingbetter trackingof food sources
thereby increasing food safety and improving freshness and quality. Buyinglocal is a current
trend that could benefit the County's many small farmers. Community Supported Agriculture is
one popular method, where farmers obtain paid subscriptions from customers, who then
receive fresh produce every week for the season. Farmers markets and farm stands are another
aspect of the local food movement.
Conservation easements: Many states are using programs to put permanent conservation
easements on farm lands. As an example of a program that is not yet available in Oregon is the
Purchase of Agricultural Conservation Easements ( PACE). Funded by the federal government
and a combination of other sources, PACE purchases development rights from farmers.
Niche markets: Small quantities or specialized products can be raised to meet particular markets,
like organic products or peppermint oil.
Value- added products. Processing crops can increase profitability. An example would be making
jam or jelly out of locallygrown berries.
Farm Councils: Farm councils are being initiated around the country to promote local sustainable
food. The Central Oregon Food PolicyCouncil ( COFPC) formed in 2010 to lead the effort to a
sustainable and just food system. The COFPC is made up of 12-15 volunteers including
representatives from agricultural production, publichealth, government and others interested
in the local food system. Identified strategies include supporting access to local healthy food,
advocatingfor public policies that increase sustainable food production and connecting
stakeholders in the food systems field.
Big Look
In 2005 a task force was appointed by the Oregon Governor, Speaker of the Mouse and Senate
President to review the current land use system. The Oregon Task Force on Land Use Planning
was a 10- membergroup representing various perspectives, chargedwith conductinga
comprehensive review of the Oregon Statewide PlanningProgram. Called the Big Look Task
8 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 34 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinan&'01
OURCE MANAGEMENT SECTION 2.2 AGRIc mRAL LANDS
Force, this group was asked to make recommendations for any needed changesto land-use
policy to the 2009 Legislature.
After three years of extensive input from experts and citizens throughout the State, the task
force developedits findingsand recommendations. One of the primary conclusions reached
was that Oregon needs a more flexible land use system that responds to regional variations.
Two of the primary recommendations from the Task Force addressed agriculturaland forest
lands, recommending:
Counties be allowed to developregional criteria for designatingfarm and forest lands, if
they also protect important natural areas and assure that development is sustainable.
Counties be allowed to propose specialized rules to decide what lands are designated as
farm or forest land.
2009 Legislature / House Bill 2229
House Bill (HB) 2229 beganas the vehicle for legislativerecommendations for the BigLook
Task Force. However, by the time the Legislatureadjourned, very little of the Task Force's
recommendations remained. HB 2229 does authorize counties to reevaluate resource lands
and amend their comprehensive plan designationsfor such lands consistent with definitions of
agricultural land" and "forest land." For example, the County could add irrigated lands to the
regionaldefinition of farm lands to acknowledge the results of the 1992 farm study. Anything
that does not qualify as farmland or forestland may be rezoned for non- resource use, subject
to conditions that development in the non- resource zones be rural in character, not
significantlyconflict with surroundingfarm and forest practices, and not have adverse affects on
such things as water quality, wildlife habitat, and fire safety. County rezoning activities must be
pursuant to a work plan approved by the Oregon Department of Land Conservation and
Development. This effectively means the work will be done similar to periodic review with the
Land Conservation and Development Commission expressly given exclusive jurisdiction to
review a county decision.
Future of Deschutes County Farm Designations and Uses
Statewide PlanningGoal 3 requires counties to preserve and maintain agriculturallands.
However, in discussions on the future of agriculture in Deschutes County, there are still
differences of opinion over which lands should be designated farm lands and what uses should
be allowed. Farm lands contribute to the County in a number of ways. Agriculture is part of the
ongoing local economy. Wide-open farm lands offer a secondary benefit by providing scenic
open spaces that help attract tourist dollars. Farm lands also contribute to the rural character
that is often mentioned as important to residents. Finally, it should be noted that agricultural
lands are preserved through State policy and land use law because it is difficult to predict what
agriculturalopportunities might arise, and once fragmentedthe opportunity to farm may be
lost.
On the other hand, there seems to be widespread agreement that much of the local farm land
is marginal, particularly without irrigation. The climate, especially the short growing season,
makes commercial farmingchallenging. Statewide PlanningGoal 3 does not really account for
the conditions in Deschutes County, resulting in agricultural zoning being applied to land with
no history of farming and limited potential for profitable farming. The small size of agricultural
parcels adds to the challenges. It has been argued that preserving farm lands benefits the wider
DESCHUTES COUNTY ComPREHENSsM PLAN- 201 1
C ~
P9Me3' J A C- 'EMX W%(7 %9Af J NTf_ ffiy-AL
LANDS
public at the expense of agricultural landowners. There is considerable pressure to convert
agriculturalland to residential or other uses.
The debate is complicated because there are impacts to the farmingcommunity from
converting agricultural lands to other uses. It can be challengingfor a farmer who has
residential neighbors because farmingactivities can have noise, odor or dust impacts.
The right- to-farm law discussed earlier offers some protection to farmers, but as
residential uses grow there is pressure to convert, leadingto a greater loss of
agricultural lands.
The goals and policies in this Section are intended to provide the basis for evaluating the
future of agriculture in the County over the next twenty years. They are intended to
provide, within State guidelines, flexibility to the farming community. County farm lands
will be preserved by ensuring a variety of alternative paths to profitability.
10 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 36 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinan&l~VII ? j%° uRci
MANAGimiNT SECTioN 2.2 AGiucuLTURAL LANDS
seot%ovk, 2. 2 Ae r' uAh- . ra L Ln vOs I> ol.i c%es
Goals and Policies
Goal I Preserve and maintain agricultural lands and the agricultural industry.
Policy 2. 2.1 Retain agricultural lands through Exclusive Farm Use zoning.
Policy2. 2.2 Exclusive Farm Use sub- zones shall remain as described in the 1992 Farm Study
and shown in the table below, unless adequatelegalfindingsfor amendingthe
sub- zones are adopted or an individual parcel is rezoned as allowed by Policy
2. 2.3.
Exclusive Farm Use Subzones
Subzone Name
Minimum
Acres Propte
Lower Bridge 130 Irrigated field crops, hay and pasture
Sisters/ Cloverdale 63 Irritated alfaft hay and pasture, wooded grazing
and some field crops
Terrebonne 35 Irrigated hay and pasture
Tumalo/ Redmond/Bend 23 Irritated pasture and some ha
Alfalfa 36 Irrigated hay and pasture
La Pine 37 Riparianmeadows, grazing and meadow hay
Horse RidgeEast 320 Rangelandgrazing
Policy2. 2.3 Allow comprehensive plan and zoning map amendments for individual EFU
parcels as allowed by State Statute, Oregon Administrative Rules and this
Comprehensive Plan.
Policy2. 2.4 Develop comprehensive policy criteria and code to provide clarity on when and
how EFU parcels can be converted to other designations.
Policy2. 2.S Uses allowed in Exclusive Farm Use zones shall comply with State Statute and
Oregon Administrative Rule.
Policy2. 2.6 Regularlyreview farm regulationsto ensure compliancewith changesto State
Statute, Oregon Administrative Rules and case law.
Polity 2. 2.7 Encouragewater projects that benefit agriculture.
Policy2. 2.8 Support a variety of methods to preserve agriculturallands, such as:
a. Support the use of grant funds and other resources to assist local farmers;
b. Work cooperatively with irrigation districts, public agenciesand
representatives and land owners;
c. Encourageconservation easements, or purchase or transfer of development
rights programs;
d. Control noxious weeds;
e. Encouragea food council or ' buy local' program.
CDHbSCHum
COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE
PLLAN~-
2011 ~
t uRA~
Pa 2 AE[ Sts`x nlDliW%6f%9 11 ~JNlfl1~ UU3
LANDS
Goal 2 Promote a diverse, sustainable, revenue- generating agricultural
sector.
Policy2. 2.9 Encouragefarmingby promoting the raising and sellingof crops, livestock and/or
poultry.
Policy2.2. 10 Support stakeholders in studying and promoting economically viable agricultural
opportunities and practices.
Policy 2. 2.11 Encouragesmall farmingenterprises, including, but not limited to, niche markets,
organic farming, farm stands or value added products.
Policy2. 2.12 Review County Code and revise as needed to permit alternative and
supplemental farm activities that are compatiblewith farming, such as agri-
tourism or commercial renewable energy projects. When a preferred alternative
or supplemental use identified through a public process is not permitted by State
regulations work with the State to review and revise their regulations.
Goal 3 Ensure Exclusive Farm Use policies, classifications and codes are
consistent with local and emerging agricultural conditions and
markets.
Policy2. 2.13 Identifyand retain accurately designatedagriculturallands.
Policy2. 2.14 Explore new methods of identifyingand classifyingagricultural lands.
a. Apply for grants to review and, if needed, update farmland designations.
b. Study County agriculturaldesignationsconsideringelements such as water
availability, farm viability and economics, climatic conditions, land use patterns,
accepted farm practices, and impacts on public services.
c. Lobby for changesto State Statute regardingagriculturaldefinitions specific to
Deschutes County that would allow some reclassification of agricultural lands.
Policy2. 2.15 Address land use challengesin the Worse Ridgesubzone, specifically.
a. The largenumber of plattedlots not meeting the minimum acreage;
b. The need for non- farm dwellingsand location requirements for farm
dwellings;
c. Concerns over the impact on private property from off- road vehicles,
facilities, and trails located on adjacent publiclands.
Policy2. 2.16 Work with the State to review and revise accessory farm dwellingrequirements
to address the needs of local farmers.
Policy 2. 2.17 Encourage coordination between fish/ wildlife management organizations and
agricultural interests.
12 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 38 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinan&rVJ
OURCE MANAGEMENT SECTION 2.2 AGRICULTURAL LANDS
sectwovx. 2. 3 ForeSt t_.a v AS
Background
Protectingforests and their economic benefits are primary goalsof the Oregon land use
system. Statewide PlanningGoal 4 establishes forest identification and protection standards
which must be met by local governments. The Goal requires forests to be protected primarily
for the growing and harvestingof trees, with environmental and recreational uses also being
considered. Additional criteria for Statewide Goal 4 can be found in Oregon Revised Statue
ORS) 215 and Oregon Administrative Rule ( OAR) 660- 006. The key concept is local
governments must inventory forest lands and protect them through local regulations.
County Forestry Designations
In 1979 in order to meet the Statewide Goal 4 inventory requirement for forest lands, the
County worked with the Oregon Department of Forestry to review timber productivity based
on soils information. A resultingtimber productivity map was created and three categories of
forest lands were identified based on forest uses identified in Statewide Goal 4.
In the 1990s, the Land Conservation and DevelopmentCommission initiated the Forest Rule,
OAR 660. 006, defining allowed uses, siting conditions and minimum lot sizes in forest zones. In
1992, as part of State mandated Periodic Review, Deschutes County revised its forest
designations, reducing forest designations and associated regulationsto two ( F-I and F-2).
County Forests 2007 - 2009
The following statistics provide a snapshot of forests in Deschutes County.
Source: CountyGIS data
Approximately 52% of the County or over I million acres are designated as forest on the
Comprehensive Plan map. Of that acreage, 92% is public, primarily federal, leaving
approximately 78, 000 acres privately held.
There are 475 forest special assessment accounts.
The largestprivately owned forest land is the 33, 000 acre Skyline Forest, formerly Bull
SpringsTree Farm.
Source: OSU Extension Service Silviculture and Fire Education Specialist
Total public and private timber harvest in the County in 2007 was 22.5 million board feet,
in 2008, 36.1 million board feet and in 2009, 14.7 million board feet.
Source. Deschutes CountyForester
Since 2002 approximately 130,000 acres of publicand private forest lands have burned in
Deschutes County at a firefighting expense of approximately $60 million.
Forest Trends 2010
As timber harvestingdecreases, other uses for forest lands are emerging. State regulations
permit five generaltypes of uses, includingforest operations; environmental, agricultural or
recreational uses; two types of dwellingsand locallydependent uses. Permitted uses are defined
CCDEHSCHUTES
COUNTY
COMMIEHEN~SNIVEERLANp-N2011~p ~~~p~ pp
P" A S~ bE TU° ~ d1U'1'f= W
s
and clarified in OAR 660- 006. The following uses are becoming more prominent and likely to
gain importance over the next 20 years.
Secondaryforest products (forest operations): There is an increasing use of secondary forest
products, such as hog fuel ( chipped wood) or wood slash, which can be used for everything
from animal bedding to presto logs to biomass fuel. There is some concern that those uses will
lead to increased loggingand degradationof forests. However, there is considerable agreement
that the highbuild up of debris in local forests increases the risk of forest fires. The use of
secondary forest products can contribute to the health of the forest as well as the local
economy.
Recreation ( environmental, agriculturaland recreation uses): The proximity of federal forests for
hiking, mountain biking, skiing, hunting, fishing, wildlife viewing and other outdoor recreation
draws tourists and residents alike. ( see Section 2.6 for data on the economic impacts of wildlife
tourism.)
Alternative energy ( locadonolly dependent): Commercial alternative energy projects are often
locationally dependent. Forestry-related biomass plants and associated infrastructure are being
considered in Central Oregon.
Future of Forest Uses
Most of the forest land in Deschutes County is owned and managedby the Federal government
under Federal regulations. Forest practices on State or private forest lands are regulated by the
Oregon Departmentof Forestry. The primary role of the County is to limit the impacts of
developmenton private property in forest zones.
Although most forest lands are not owned or managedby Deschutes County, forests
contribute immeasurably to livability. Timber management and recreational tourism provide
economic benefits and employment Forests provide an impressive diversity of recreational
opportunities. Forests also play a large role in maintaining clean air and water and they provide
scenic beauty and habitat for a wide variety of plantsand animals. It is important for the County
to work cooperatively with forest landowners, includingpublic agencies, non-profit
organizations and private land owners.
Residential Development
The primary concern over changingforest uses is that as timber becomes less profitable, the
pressure to developforest lands for residential uses increases. State regulationslimit the
development of housingin forest zones, recognizing that fragmentingforests decreases
productivity. The biggest challengeposed by residential fragmentationof forests is the danger
posed by wildfire in heavily wooded areas. Fire dangerhas increased as dry conditions and
disease have impactedthe health of forest lands. Years of fire suppression and limited logging
have contributed to a build up of wildland fuel that can spread fires quickly. In these conditions,
residential uses in forests create conditions dangerous to homeowners and firefighters. Section
3.4, Natural Hazards, has more information on wildfire prevention. The second challengeposed
by forest fragmentation is the threat to fish and wildlife. This is addressed in the Water and
Wildlife sections of this Chapter.
14 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 40 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance 201~IR
2 RESOURCE MANAGEMENT SECTION 2.3 FOREST LANDS
Skyline Forest
There is a unique opportunity to preserve a large
privatelyheld working forest. SkylineForest consists of Skyline Forest
approximately 33, 000 acres of privately held forest
lands at the base of the Three Sisters Mountains.
Historically, this property has been logged, but still
holds important recreational, scenic and wildlife habitat
value. The non- profit Deschutes Land Trust has been
working to purchase Skyline Forest from the owners,
who represent a largefinancial company. In 2005 the
Board of County Commissioners approvedcreating a
Community Forest Authority, a quasi- municipal
corporation that has the authority to issue tax- exempt
bonds to pay for purchasing the forest. The bonds will be repaid with revenue from logging.
The logging revenue is not anticipated to cover all the bond costs, but combined with other
grants and contributions can ensure the bonds are repaid.
HD 2228
As noted above, the goal of the Deschutes Land Trust is to purchase and manage as much of
the Skyline Forest as possible for sustainable logging. wildlife, recreation and scenery. HB 2228,
adopted by the 2009 Legislature, allows the owners of this land the right to build a clustered
community of up to 282 dwelling units and associated services on 1, 200acres. An additional
1, 800acres must be in a conservation easement as a buffer to maintain wildlife habitat and
minimize wildfire danger. In exchange for waiving State and local land use regulations to allow
this development, the remaining 30, 000 acres of the Skyline Forest and additional property in
Deschutes and Klamath counties must be sold to a land trust and protected with a
conservation easement. There are additional requirements attached to the Statue that provide
more detail on items such as road access, master planningand permitted uses.
DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011 Is
FrfeWN V 61%QA~9 ~
s
seotWw 2. 3 Forest Lavi,ds 1> ol,%o es
Goals and Policies
Goal 1 Protect and maintain forest lands for multiple uses, including forest
products, watershed protection, conservation, recreation and wildlife
habitat protection.
Policy 2. 3.1 Retain forest lands through Forest I and Forest 2 zoning.
Policy2. 3.2 To conserve and maintain unimpactedforest lands, retain Forest I zoning for
those lands with the following characteristics:
a. Consist predominantlyof ownerships not developed by residences or non-
forest uses;
b. Consist predominantly of contiguous ownerships of 160 acres or larger;
c. Consist predominantly of ownerships contiguous to other lands utilized for
commercial forest or commercial farm uses;
d. Are accessed by roads intended primarily for forest management; and
e. Are primarily under forest management.
Policy2. 3.3 To conserve and maintain impacted forest lands, retain Forest 2 zoning for those
lands with the following characteristics:
a. Consist predominantly of ownerships developed for residential or non- forest
uses;
b. Consist predominantly of ownerships less than 160 acres;
c. Consist of ownerships generally contiguous to tracts containing less than 160
acres and residences, or adjacent to acknowledgedexception areas; and
d. Provide a level of public facilities and services, includingroads, intended
primarily for direct services to rural residences.
Policy 2. 3.4 Notwithstandingany other quasi-judicial plan or zone changecriteria, lands
designated as Forest under this Plan and zoned Forest 2 may upon application be
redesignatedand rezoned from Forest 2 to Exclusive Farm Use if such lands:
a. Do not qualify under State Statute for foresdand tax deferral,
b. Are not necessary to permit forest operations or practices on adjoininglands
and do not constitute forested lands that maintain soil, air, water and fish and
wildlife resources,
c. Have soils on the property that fail within the definition of agricultural lands
as set forth in Goal 3,
d. Are a tract of land 40 acres or less in size,
e. Do not qualifyunder State Statute and the terms of the Forest 2 zone for a
dwelling, and;
f. Were purchased by the property owner after January1, 1985 but before
November 4, 1993.
Such changes may be made regardless of the size of the resultingEFU zoning
district. Such changesshall be processed in the same manner as other quasi-
judicial plan or zoning map changes.
16 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 42 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance 201J
R 2 RESOURCE MANAGEMENT SECTION 2.3 FOREST LANDS
Policy 2. 3.5 Uses allowed in Forest zones shall complywith State Statute and Oregon
Administrative Rule.
Policy 2. 3.6 Coordinate and cooperate with the U.S. Forest Service, the Bureau of Land
Managementand other public agenciesto promote sustainable forest uses,
includingrecreation, on publicforest land, including.
a. Usingthe Deschutes National Forest Land and Resource ManagementPlan, or
its successor, as the basis for mutual coordination and cooperation with the
U.S. Forest Service;
b. Using the Prineville Bureau of Land Management Upper Deschutes Resource
Management Plan, or its successor, as the basis for mutual coordination and
cooperation with the Bureau of Land Management.
Policy 2. 3.7 Notify affected agencies when approving development that could impact Federal
or State forest lands.
Policy 2. 3.8 Support the maintenance of the Skyline Forest as a CommunityForest.
Policy 2. 3.9 Support economic development opportunities that promote forest health.
Policy2.3. 10 Provide input on publicforest plansthat impact Deschutes County.
Policy 2. 3.11 Apply for grants to review forest lands based on ORS 215. 788-215. 794 ( 2009 HB
2229).
Policy 2. 3.12 Coordinate with stakeholders to support forest management projects that
a. Contribute to publicsafetyby treating wildland hazardous fuels particularlyin
the designated Wildlland Urban Interface as identified in the Community
Wildfire Protection Plans described in Section 3.5 of this Plan;
b. Retain fish and wildlife habitat.
Goal 2 Adequately address impacts to public safety and wildlife when allowing
development on forest lands.
Policy 2.3. l3 Review County Code and revise as needed to ensure development in forest
zones mitigates impacts, particularlyimpacts on fish and wildlife habitat and
public fire safety.
CDESCHUTES
COUNTY
COMMEHINESSIVVESEPLLA~INO-N201
11 17
FWOWA [, Sts C~ isTO ( 7f41f1a d 1" f-ll[ 1-3-~ p~ps
5eot~ow 2. 4 crow 5 overv'ew
Background
Many County resources are protected through Statewide PlanningGoal 5, Natural Resources,
Scenic and Historical Areas and Open Spaces. Further direction on protecting these resources
is provided in Oregon Administrative Rule ( OAR) 660. 023. It is important to note that OAR
660- 016 provided direction when the County did an extensive review of Goal 5 resources
primarily in the early 1990s. In 1996 OAR 660- 023 replacedOAR 660- 016 for all listed
resources except cultural resources. The Goal and OAR require local governments to
inventory various resources and determine which items on the inventory are significant. For
sites identified as significant, an Economic, Social, Environmental and Energy (ESEE) analysisis
required. The analysisleads to one of three choices: preserve the resource, allow proposed
uses that conflict with the resource or strike a balance between the resource and the
conflicting uses. A program must be provided to protect the resources as determined by the
ESEE analysis.
Deschutes County completed Goal 5 inventories and the ESEE analysisduring Periodic Review,
a State process for updatingcomprehensive planswhich lasted from 1988- 2003. The County
Goal 5 inventories and programs were acknowledgedby the Department of Land Conservation
and Development as beingin compliancewith Goal S. Therefore, the acknowledgedGoal 5
inventories, ESEEs and programs are retained in this Plan (although one historic resource is
being modified).
OAR 660- 023 requires speck Goal 5 resources to be reviewed and amended at each periodic
review. However, counties are no longer required to do periodic review. This Plan update is
not being done under those regulations.
The following resources are required to be inventoried at each periodic review:
Federal Wild and Scenic Rivers
Oregon Scenic Waterways
Groundwater resources ( limited application)
Natural areas ( on the Oregon State Registerof Natural Heritage Resources list)
In addition, the following list includes resources the County inventoried during its last periodic
review.
Riparian corridors
Wetlands
Wildlife habitat
Approved Oregon Recreation Trails
Wilderness areas
Mineral and aggregate resources
Energysources ( updated as new sites are proposed)
Historic resources
Open spaces
Scenic views and sites
Cultural areas
s DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 44 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance SMffi- W
ESOURCE MANAGEMENT SECTION 2.4 GOAL 5 OVERVIEW
Purpose of Goal 5
The purpose of identifyingGoal 5 related lands is to effectivelymanage Deschutes County's
natural and cultural resources to meet the needs of today while retaining their value for future
generations. These resources are addressed in the following sections:
Natural Resources
Water Resources ( Section 2.5)
Wildlife ( Section 2.6)
Open Spacesand Scenic Views and Sites ( Section 2.7)
Energy (Section 2.8)
Other Statewide PlanningGoal S Resources
MiningResources ( Section 2. 10)
Historic and Cultural Resources ( Section 2. 11)
Future Goal 5 Inventories
Although the 2008- 2011 Plan update was not completed under periodic review and no updates
to the Goal S resources were made, the County recognizes the importance of revisiting its
Goal 5 resource list. To ensure the appropriate protection of Goal 5 resources, upon adoption
of this Plan the County will initiate a Goal 5 technical committee to review its existing
inventories and programs. The review will include consideration of existing inventories and
programs as well as the cumulative effects of growth on our Goal 5 programs. The complete
acknowledged Goal 5 inventory lists as of 2010 can be found in Chapter S. An incomplete list
of County Goal 5 Ordinances can also be found in Chapter S. Research will continue to identify
and list all adoptedGoal 5 Ordinances.
Some issues for the Goal 5 review are listed below.
There are some discrepancies between mapped and listed acknowledged Goal 5
inventories that need to be reconciled.
Many Goal 5 resources, like wilderness areas, are located on Federal lands and are
protected by Federal programs.
Unlike other Goal 5 resources, amendments to the mining and historic inventories are
generallyinitiated by property owners for specificsites.
An inventory of Goal 5 wildlife resources was providedby an interagency team made up
of Oregon Departmentof Fish and Wildlife, U.S. Fish and Wildlife, U.S. Forest Service and
the Bureau of Land Management. This report was prepared at the request of staff and as
part of the Goal 5 review the updated inventories will be reviewed by a technical
committee and eventually be recommended for adoption.
Consider the Deschutes County Greenprint data and community values when reviewing
the Goal S inventories.
DEscmvrEs Couwy ComPRENENspa PLAN - 2011 19
Pgre (' i ~ CS r t i i49ffi Wrvisw
seot%ov% 2. 4 coal 5 overview PoUo%es
Goads and Policies
Goal I Protect Goal 5 resources.
Policy 2. 4.1 Initiate a review of all Goal 5 inventories and protection programs.
Policy 2. 2.2 Until the County initiates amendments to the Goal 5 inventories and programs,
all existing Goal 5 inventories, ESEEs and programs are retained and not
repealed, except as noted in the findingsfor Ordinance 2011- 003.
Policy 2. 4.3 Review Goal 5 resources when a new Goal 5 resource is verified through the
applicablestate and county process, but at least every 10 years.
Policy 2. 4.4 Incorporate new information into the Goal 5 inventory as requested by an
applicant or as County staff resources allow.
Policy2. 4.5 As federal lands are sold to private owners, review the impacts to Goal 5
resources.
20 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 46 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance SMfflWESOURCE
MANAGEMENT SECTION 2.4 GOAL 5 OVERVIEW
sectbovl. 2. 5 Water rz. esou.roes
Background
Water resource management is impacted by land use planningand includes numerous
components from groundwater to river systems and water availability to water quality.
Unpolluted water is essential for biodiversity and for human, animal and plant survival. Besides
consumption and irrigation, water is also needed for maintaining the river and stream
ecosystems that are a largepart of Deschutes County's quality of life and economy.
Management of this shared resource is a regional priority.
The primary state regulatorof water availability is the Oregon Water Resources Department
OWRD). The Oregon Departmentof Environmental Quality (DEQ) has the primary role in
monitoring and enforcing water quality standards. The Oregon DEQ is required to comply with
the Federal Environmental Protection Agency.
In addition to those agencies, there are two Statewide PlanningGoals relating to the protection
of water resources. Statewide PlanningGoal 5, Natural Resources Scenic and Historic Areas
and Open Spaces, requires an inventory of the following defined water resources. Once
inventoried, the Goal requires protection measures. These inventories have been completed
and acknowledgedby the Land Conservation and DevelopmentCommission ( See Sections 2.4
and 5.3).
Riparian Corridors, includingwater, riparian areas and fish habitat
Wetlands
Federal Wild and Scenic Rivers
State Scenic Waterways
Groundwater Resources
Statewide PlanningGoal 6, Air, Land and Water Resources Quality, requires comprehensive
plans to be consistent with state and federal pollution regulations.
The policies in this section provide the framework for evaluating land use actions and dune the
responsibility of the County to work in partnership with cities, agencies, non- profits and others
to achieve efficient use of water resources and effective management of water qualityin the
Upper Deschutes Basin.
It is important to underscore that the primary water resource management process occurs
outside of the state land use planning system. Oregon land use and water management are not
integrated. There are no overarchingadministrative rules that consider statewide water
management in conjunction with land use planning.
Regional Water Coordination
Cities, irrigation districts, farmers, non- profits, fisherman and rural residents all have a stake in
ensuring adequate quantities of water. Water availability and quality are tied together and are a
regional priority. The following are the primary agencies and organizations involved in water
management.
DFscHUTEs COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE RAN- 201 1 21
FWeW THSFEM~f~, , V ENT61KRAMMV- PMOURCEs
Oregon Water Resources Commission and Water Resources Department
The Water Resources Commission oversees the Oregon Water Resources Department that
manages the amount of water flowing through, and being diverted from Oregon's water bodies.
Surface and groundwater rights are administered through this department
The Water Resources Department, together with the Departmentof Environmental Quality,
Department of Fish and Wildlife, Department of Agriculture, and stakeholders and partners
from around Oregon, is developingthe state's first Integrated Water Resources Strategy.
OregonDepartment of Environmental Quality
The Department of Environment Quality (DEQ) regulateswater quality permits, administers
onsite sewage system programs, implements (jointly with Departmentof Health Services) the
statewide drinking water source assessment and protection program, certifies drinking water
protection plans for public water supply systems, and administers an underground injection
control and an undergroundstorage tank program.
The DEQ is also responsible for carrying out the State's obligation under the federal Clean
Water Act Section 303(d) of the Federal Clean Water Act requires states to identify and list
water bodies that do not meet water quality standards. The State will set a total maximum daily
load ( TMDL) for water bodies that do not meet the quality standards, and the TMDL will
calculate the maximum amount of pollutants that can be dischargedinto the water body while
still meeting water quality standards.
Deschutes Water Alliance
The Deschutes Water Alliance ( DWA) was formed in 2004 to plan for long-term water
resource management in the Deschutes Basin. It is comprised of the following stakeholders:
The Deschutes Basin Board of Control: an association of 7 irrigation districts that includes
North Unit, Central Oregon, Swalley, Tumalo, Three Sisters, Arnold and Ochoco
The Confederated Tribes of Warm Springs: located in Jefferson County, they are focused
on managingwater resources as sustainable assets
Deschutes River Conservancy (DRC): a non- profit organization with a mission to restore
streamflow and improve water quality in the Deschutes Basin
Central Oregon Cities Organization (COCO): includes representatives from the cities of
Bend, Culver, La Pine, Madras, Metolius, Prineville, Redmond, and Sisters
Deschutes County, JeffersonCounty, Crook County
Oregon Departmentof Environmental Quality, Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife,
Oregon Water Resources Department and the Bureau of Reclamation are unofficial
members.
The vision of the Deschutes Water Alliance is to balance water resources to serve and sustain
agriculture, urban and ecosystem needs. To achieve this vision, the mission is to:
Improve stream flows and water quality in the Deschutes Basin for the benefit of fish,
wildlife and people.
Secure and maintain a reliable and affordable supplyof water to sustain agriculture.
Secure a safe, affordable, and high quality water supply for urban communities.
22 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 48 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinanc~ f a& OURCE
MANAGEMENT SECTION 2S WATER RESOURCES
Deschutes Basin Hydrogeology
The Deschutes River Basin, from its headwaters to the Columbia River, encompasses 10, 400
square miles of the north central part of the State. Nearly 91 % of Deschutes County lies within
the Deschutes Basin. The upper Deschutes River Basin is characterized by recent volcanic
activity and strong and rapid groundwater flows. The geologicconditions lead to a strong
connection between surface and ground water ( see also Section 3. 10).
Groundwater flows eastward from the Cascade Rangethrough permeable volcanic rocks out
into the basin and then generallynorthward. Groundwater recharge comes from precipitation
in the Cascade Range, inter- basin flow and leakingirrigation canals. No long-term water- level
declines attributable to groundwaterpumping were found in the upper Deschutes Basin.
Approximately one- half of the ground water flowing from the Cascade Rangedischarges to
spring-fed streams along the margins of the range. The remaining groundwater flows through
the subsurface, and eventually discharges to streams near the confluence of the Deschutes,
Crooked, and Metolius Rivers.
The large amount of groundwater discharge in the confluence area is primarily caused by
geologicfactors. The Deschutes River flows north through permeable rock until it hits a region
of tow- permeablerock near the confluence area. There the permeable rock strata terminates,
forcing water to the surface. Virtually all of the regional groundwater in the upper Deschutes
Basin dischargesto streams south of the area where the Deschutes River enters this low-
permeability terrain, at roughlythe location of Pelton Dam.
Assessment of water resources of the upper Deschutes Basin confirms that human activities
have significantly altered the flow regime in the basin, but on balance have led to the
consumption of only a relativelysmall amount of available water. These impacts do appear to
have had a seasonal impact in the lower Deschutes River ( in the early months of the calendar
year), the reach where all the changesin storage, diversion and surface- groundwater
interactions come together in one place. Yet the most dramatic modifications to the water
resources regime are clearly seen in terms of low flows below irrigation district diversions in
Bend during the summer and below Wickiup Reservoir in the winter.
Reservoir storage and releases for irrigation have highlyaltered flows in five of the seven water
qualityimpaired reaches in the basin. The upper Deschutes River reach does not often meet
target flows in the winter due to upstream reservoir storage at Crescent Lake, Wickiup and
Crane Prairie reservoirs. Irrigation diversions have reduced summer flows in six of the seven
water quality impaired reaches. Most reaches experience low summer flows due to irrigation
diversions. Prior to current restoration efforts, sections of Whychus Creek and Tumalo Creek
typically went dry during the irrigation season due to extensive diversion.
Water Rights
The appropriation and use of water in the State of Oregon are regulatedunder ORS by the
Oregon Water Resources Department. Permits issued by OWRD provide for the necessary
and allowed points of diversion for water to be diverted from or released to a water body. All
water is publicly owned, and with some exceptions, cities, farms, factory owners, and other
water uses must obtain a permit or water right from the OWRD to beneficiallyuse water from
any source - whether it is underground, or from lakes or streams. Generally speaking,
DiiscHms CouNTY
ComPREHEN~sNiw
PLAN- 20111 22
Pa l~ S~ Xf11DIiWZOT61%9cAa9ftTMOURCES
landowners with water flowing past, through, or under their property do not automatically
have the right to use that water without a permit from the OWRD.
Oregon's water laws are based on the principle of prior appropriation. This means the first
person to obtain a water right on a stream is the last to be shut off in times of shortage. During
water shortages, the water right holder with the oldest date of priority can demand the water
specified in their water right regardless of the needs of junior users. If there is a surplus beyond
the needs of the senior right holder, the water right holder with the next oldest priority date
can take as much as necessary under their right, and so on down the line until there is no
surplus or until all rights are satisfied. The date of application for a permit to use water usually
becomes the priority date of the right.
Water Availability
Water AvailabilityConstraints
The availability of surface water for irrigating agriculture in Central Oregon began in the 1860s
and accelerated at the turn of the century. Surface water rights in the Deschutes Basin have
been limited since the early 1900s. Except for very highflow periods during winter and spring
run-off, there is no surface water available for any out- of-stream use in the Deschutes River
basin. The lack of surface water availabilityled new developmentin the I Ms to turn to
groundwater for new water needs. The growing demand for groundwater raised concern that
the groundwater permitting process ignored the connection between groundwater and surface
water.
In 1995 a moratorium on further groundwater permit approvals was instituted by the Water
Resources Commission pending the outcome of a collaborative examination of groundwater in
the Upper Deschutes Basin. The study, carried out by the U.S. Geological Survey and the
OWRD confirmed that snowmelt infiltrates into the ground and recharges the underlying
aquifers. The study also confirmed that aquifer discharge provides much of the surface water to
streams in the Deschutes Basin. The results verified the potentialfor groundwater withdraws
to impact surface water flows and cause injury to surface water holders.
ExemptGroundwater Users
Groundwater wells for domestic needs in rural areas are generally classified as an exempt use
by the OWRD. Exempt use means water right permits are not required if domestic use is less
than 15, 000 gallonsper dayand irrigation is less than one- half acre, or commercial use is less
than 5, 000gallonsper day. A 2006 study for the Deschutes Water Alliance ( Future Ground
Water Demand in the Deschutes Basin) estimated a 2006 total of 20, 000 exempt wells in Crook,
Deschutes and Jefferson counties, growing to 32, 000 by 2025.
Exempt wells do not currently have to mitigate for their groundwater withdraws. Presentations
by the Water Resources Departmentstaff indicate that the subsurface water supply in
Deschutes County rechargesat the rate of approximately 3, 500cubic feet per second ( cfs) and
existing exempt wells use in the aggregate only 3-4 cfs. This suggests that additional regulation
is not needed at this time. However, future policy discussions may need to consider how
exempt wells fit into the overall water picture.
24 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 50 of 238 - Exhibit B to OrdinanCSHt" 68YOURCE
MANAGEMENT SECTION 2.5 WATER RESOURCES
Water Banks
Besides exempt wells, new water is needed for other uses, from satisfyingincreased demand in
cities to destination resorts. To address the limited availabilityof new water rights, two
systems have been set up, both managedby the Deschutes River Conservancy. First the
Deschutes Water Alliance set up a voluntary Water Bank as a cooperative, coordinated,
transparent and voluntary system to identify and meet the water needs of qualifiedbuyers. It
operates in conformance to ORS and through a water marketplace. The Bank facilitates
transfers of water rights between different users, including the Deschutes River and its
tributaries.
The second system is the Groundwater Mitigation Bank. The Water Resources Commission
approved rules for the Deschutes Groundwater Mitigation Program in 2002 under OAR 690-
505. Under the Mitigation Program, applicantsfor new groundwater permits are informed of
their mitigation obligationby the OWRD during the first phase of the groundwater permit
application process, and that they must provide mitigation before their permit can be issued.
Applicants can provide either permanent or temporary mitigation credits. Mitigation credits can
be established through instream transfers, aquifer recharge, storage release or conserved water
projects.
Water Conservation
Water conservation playsa major role in ensuring adequatewater availability. Promotingwater
conservation leads to an efficient and cost- effective use of resources. Generally, conservation is
seen as a win for the community, the economy and the environment.
OregonState Policyon Conservation and Efj< icientWater Use
The Oregon Water Resources Commission adopted state policy addressingconservation and
efficient water use. Rules to carry out the policy are presented in the OAR 690- 086.
The conservation policy stems from a number of factors including.
increasinglyfrequent summer water shortagesin many Oregon regions
Expandingwater needs for municipalities due to population growth
In- streamflow demand in response to state or federal listingsof sensitive, threatened or
endangeredspecies that depend on streamflow and water quality
The link between healthy ecosystem functions, water quality, recreation and the Oregon
economy
The polity rules were developed to provide a process to facilitate efficient water use and water
supplyplanningconsistent with capabilities of the water supplier and the OWRD. Major water
suppliersand water users are encouragedby the policy to prepare water management and
conservation plans. Implementation of conservation projects can help restore streamflows,
stabilize water supplies that provide for economic development and growth.
Irrigation Districts Conservation
Agriculture is estimated to use approximately90Y. of the surface water in the Upper
Deschutes Basin. Therefore irrigation district conservation efforts can have a significant impact
on water availability. Water savingsfrom water conservation projects undertaken by irrigation
districts or their patrons can be transferred to instream use for the Allocation of Conserved
Water ( ORS 537. 455 to 537.500, OAR 690. 018).
CDEHSCHuTEEs
COUNTY COMPREHENSIVEPLAN - 2011 25
Pa 3T~~ ip Uf afl MV- PMOURCEs
A major conservation initiative by irrigation districts is the piping and liningof irrigation canals.
Water seeps out of canals into the permeable rock layer below and is lost to irrigation uses.
Pipingand liningprojects provide benefits such as improving water deliveryefficiency, reliability
and freeingwater for other uses. Concerns have been expressed that the water that leaks from
the canals rechargesthe aquifer, and piping and lininghave the potential to lower the water
table. Additionally, some residents with open irrigation canals on their properties appreciate
the aesthetic and wildlife benefits of the canals.
A number of irrigation district efficiency improvements have been completed since 1997. These
improvements, through reducing seepage losses in conveyance systems and improving on- farm
efficiency, have reduced water losses by 45, 360 acre-feet on an annual basis in the Upper
Deschutes Basin. It is estimated that 110,268 acre- feet could be saved annually, based on a
Deschutes Water Alliance report ( Irrigation District Water EfficiencyCost Analysisand
Prioritization). Certain districts have been able to reduce piping project costs by incorporating
hydroelectric facilities in suitable reaches.
In 2009 Swalley Irrigation District, Three Sisters Irrigation District and Central Oregon
Irrigation District were awarded $ 3.1 million, $1. 3 million and $4. 2 million respectively to
improve water conservation. Tumalo Irrigation District was awarded ; 1. 8 million in 2010. For
Swalley, the funds are the final piece to complete a $14.5 million project involvingthe piping of
S.I miles of a 12- mile canal and the construction of a 0. 75-megawatt hydroelectric plant.
SwalleyIrrigation District returned 28 cubic feet per second to the Deschutes River as a result
of its piping project, the single largest permanent contribution of water back to the Deschutes
River.
Three Sisters Irrigation District will be using its funds to launch the first of a three- phase, $12
million pipelineproject that will boost stream flows in Whychus Creek by reducingwater loss.
The first phase will include converting more than three miles of exposed canal to buried pipe,
and replacing aging head gates and monitoring equipment with automated, remotely operating
units. The completed project should boost summer stream flows in Whychus Creek by 25 to
30 percent. The final phase of the project will be the construction of 1. 5-mega-watt
hydroelectric plant similar to the one beingbuilt by the Swalley Irrigation District.
Central Oregon Irrigation District utilized the funds to assist in piping a 2.5 mile section of its
Pilot Butte Canal permanently conserving 19.6 cubic feet per second to the Deschutes River
and for the construction of a 5.0 megawatt hydroelectric facility.
On- Farm Efficiency
Irrigation districts in cooperation with consultants, Soil and Water Conservation Districts and
the National Resources Conservation Service have compiled and implemented water
conservation plans furthering the goal of improving and identifyingon- farm efficiency
opportunities. Analysis of on- farm conservation opportunities based on a 1997 Reclamation
study show that an additional 112,410 to 146,698 acre- feet of water could be saved if on- farm
efficiency were improved to 70- 80y across all districts.
Other Conservation Efforts
Since water resources in Deschutes County are shared, there is a responsibility for all residents
and visitors to use water wisely. Irrigation districts and cities are the primary water users in
26 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 52 of 238 - Exhibit B to OrdinanCSHl" 68fOURCE
MANAGEMENT SECTION 2.5 WATER RESOURCES
Deschutes County and have their own plansfor water conservation. Although not actively
involved in those efforts, the County can be open to partnershipsas requested. Partnerships
can also be an option for small water districts outside city limits that are interested in water
conservation efforts. Individual water users are often rural residents who get their water from
exempt wells. A coordinated regionaleffort to promote conservation could go far in increasing
public awareness.
One action the County can take to promote individual water conservation is to ensure County
facilities employ water efficient tools and techniques. Trackingand advertising the savingscan
show the public the benefits of water conservation. Examplesof water conservation tools that
the County could initiate include xeroscaping ( using plant selection and watering techniques to
promote water efficient landscapes), wastewater reuse ( reusing wastewater for landscaping) or
efficient irrigation (such as using drip irrigation or smart controllers).
Deschutes Basin Ecosystem
Deschutes County constitutes 26% of the Deschutes River Basin, a major watershed in Central
Oregon. The Deschutes River is the major waterway drainingthe Basin and flows north to the
Columbia River that culminates in the Pacific Ocean. Five sub- basins feed the main stem. Most
of Deschutes County is contained by parts of three. the Upper Deschutes River Sub- basin, the
Middle Deschutes River Sub- basin, and the Lower Crooked River Sub- basin. The remainder of
the County is located in the Upper Crooked River Sub- basin and in the Goose and Summer
Lakes Basin.
The Deschutes River is a vital, multi- purposewaterway that touches the lives of thousands of
people alongits banks and throughout Central Oregon. An important historical, economic, and
cultural resource, the Deschutes provides natural beauty, abundant wildlife, and varied
recreational opportunities. Most of the upper flow of the Deschutes River is through public
land, although portions flow past private holdings.
Wild and Scenic Waterways
The federal Wild and Scenic Rivers Act created a program designed to protect the character of
free- flowingrivers. Enacted in 1968, the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act created several categories
of rivers with different levels of protection for each category. Section 7 of the Wild and Scenic
Rivers Act provides minimal protection for instream flows and prohibits Federal assistance or
licensingof water resource developmentprojects within listed sections of river. Additionally,
Section 7 prohibits Federal agenciesfrom recommending any activities that will negatively affect
the unique characteristics of a listed reach without adequately notifying Congress, the
Secretaryof Agriculture, and the Secretary of the Interior.
Individual states administer management programs for each listed reach within their
boundaries, and the federal government has authorization to acquire land alongeach reach to
maintain the character of the river ( 16 U. S.C. 1271-1287). However, the Wild and Scenic
Rivers Act does not authorize Federal regulation of water diversions, nor does it authorize
Federal acquisition of instream water rights.
Three stretches of rivers in the Upper Deschutes Basin are in the Wild and Scenic River
System.
DEscHUTES
COUNTY
CO~M~yPREEHENSIVE
PLAN -
N2011
PW2 A c6EMAhi/F&%T61K9 4ftT fftPURCES
Table 15.1 - Wild and Scenic Rivers in Deschutes County
Waterway Description
Upper Deschutes River
Deschutes River From Wickiup Dam to the Bend Urban Growth
Boundary
Middle Deschutes River From Odin Falls to the upper end of Lake Billy Chinook
Whychus Creek Source to USGS Gage14075000
Source. National Park Service
OregonScenic Waterways
In 1970, Oregon voters passed an initiative that created the Scenic Waterways Act, which
initiated the Scenic Waterways program. The State lists waterways in order to protect their
unique scenic beauty, recreation, fish, wildlife, or scientific features ( OAR 736-040). The
program lists waterways under six categories, each of which defines different management
goals and activities to occur along and adjacent to the river.
The Oregon Parks and Recreation Departmentadministers the Scenic Waterways program.
Landowners wishing to pursue a new activity within a quarter mile of a Scenic Waterway may
need to notify the Parks and Recreation Commission, and the Commission may deny this
activity if it impairs the unique qualities of the waterway. Many of the listed waterways unique
qualities depend on adequate instream flows ( ORS 390.835). The Scenic Waterways program
prohibits new activities in a Scenic Waterway area if those activities would impair flow and if
that impaired flow would harm the unique qualities of the waterway. Oregon Senate Bill 1033,
passedin 1995, added groundwater pumping to these regulatedactivities.
Table 2. S.2 - Oregon Scenic Waterways in Deschutes County
From Little Lava Lake to Crane Prairie Reservoir
From the gaugin station below Wickiup am to General Patch BridleUpper From Harper Bride to the COID diversion structure near river mile 171
Deschutes Robert SawyerPark to umalo State ParkRiver
From Deschutes Market Road Bridgeto Lake Billy Chinook ( excluding the Cline
Falls hydroelectric facility near RM 145
Riven and Streams
Inventoried rivers and streams in Deschutes County are summarized below:
Table 2. 5.3 - River Miles in Deschutes County
Little Deschutes River 42
Whychus Creek ( lower 6- miles are in jeMersonCounty 39
Tumalo Creek 16
Paulina Creek 10
Fall River 8
Crooked River 7
Source: Deschutes County / City of Bend River Study (1916)
2e DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 54 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinanc JFfafsouRcEMANAGEMENT SECTION 2.5 WATER RESOURCES
Besides rivers and creeks listed in Table 2. 5.3, there are numerous perennial streams as shown
in Table 2. 5.4. All of these streams, except portions of Indian Ford Creek, Cache Creek and
Dry Creek, are located on federal land and are subject to either the Deschutes National Forest
or the Bureau of Land Management Resource ManagementPlans.
Table 2. 5.4 - Perennial Streams in Deschutes County
Bottle Creek Full Creek SpringCreek
BridgeCreek Goose Creek Three Creek
Brush Draw Indian Ford Creek S umalo Creek
Bull Creek jack Creek NF Whychus Creek
Cache Creek Kaleemn Creek Soda Crater Creek
Charlton Creek Metolius Creek NF Trout Creek
Cultus Creek Park Creek EF NF Tumalo Creek
Cultus River Park Creek WF M Tumalo Creek
Deer Creek Pole Creek First Creek
Dry Creek Rock Creek SoapCreek
Fall Creek Snow Creek Todd Lake Creek
Source: Deschutes County/City Send River Study 1986
Riparian Areas
Riparian areas are areas adjacent to rivers, streams, lakes or ponds where there is vegetation
that requires free or unbound water or conditions that are more moist than normal. Riparian
areas form an interconnected system within a watershed. At the waters edge they define the
transition zone between aquatic and terrestrial systems. Riparianareas often contain a diversity
of vegetation not found in upland areas. Riparian areas are limited in Deschutes County and are
important habitats for both fish and wildlife.
The Deschutes County ComprehensivePlan, adopted in 1979 and revised, mapped riparian
areas along the following rivers and streams.
Table 2. 5.5 - Riparian Acreage in Deschutes County
Streams Riparian Acres
Deschutes River 1, 440
Little Deschutes River 2, 920
Paulina Creek 846
Indian ord Creek 573
Tumalo Creek 50
Wh thus Creek 47
FaH River 43
Crooked River 38
TOTAL 5,%6
Source: Deschutes County/City of Send River Sally 1986
Significant riparian habitat is located in one or more of the following three areas:
The area within 100 feet of the ordinary highwater mark of an inventoried river or
stream. The 100 foot wide area may contain both riparian vegetation and upland
vegetation.
DEEscHUTEs COUNTY
COMP~REHENSIVE
PLAN - 2011 29
F2 J NWYMA IiWW6f41r1~f MWf-% OURCES
Wetlands and flood plain are also frequentlywithin 100 feet of a stream or river. In some
cases the riparian vegetation may extend beyond 100 feet from the ordinary highwater
mark if it is a designatedwetland or flood plain.
The area adjacent to an inventoried river or stream and located within a flood plain
mapped by the Federal EmergencyManagementAgencyand zoned Flood Plain by the
County. The flood plain may extend beyond 100 feet from the ordinary highwater mark
of the stream and may contain wetland.
The County has not conducted an inventory of riparian areas adjacent to lakes and ponds on
private land. However, many of these areas are included in National Wetland Inventory Maps
and are subject to County, State and/or Federal wetland fill and removal regulations. Riparian
areas adjacent to the many lakes on federal lands are managed and protected under federal land
and resource management plans and are not included in the County inventory.
Wetlands
Wetlands are those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at a
frequency and duration sufficient to support, under normal conditions, a prevalence of
vegetation typically adaptedfor life in saturated soil conditions. Deschutes County Ordinance
92- 045 adopted all wetlands identified on the U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service National Wetland
Inventory (NWI) Maps as the Deschutes County wetland inventory. These mapped wetlands
are subject to County, state and federal fill and removal regulations.
The NWI Mapshows an inventory of wetlands based on high- altitudeaerial photos and limited
field work. While the NWI can be useful for many resource management and planning
purposes, its small scale, accuracy limitations, errors of omission that range up to 55 percent
existing wetlands not shown on NWI), age (I 980s), and absence of property boundaries make
it unsuitable for parcel-based decision making. A Local Wetland Inventory (LWI) would greatly
improve Deschutes County's ability to conserve wetland resources, which are vital to
maintaining water quality and healthy fish and wildlife populations in the Upper Deschutes basin.
Fish speciesdependent on riparian and wetland areas in the County include: Bull Trout,
Redband Trout, and Summer Steelhead.
With the exception of narrowly defined riparian buffers ( 100 ft from top of bank for all Class I
and Class 2 streams), Deschutes County does not protect wetlands; instead development
activities proposed in a NWI are required to initiate a land-use procedure and notify the
Oregon Departmentof State Lands ( DSL). Accordingto the County's zoningrequirements, no
person shall fill or remove any material or remove any vegetation, within the bed and banks of
any stream or river or in any wedand, unless approved as a conditional use or exception. All
necessary state and federal permits must be obtained as condition of approval.
If jurisdictional wetlands are located in the near- stream environment, Oregon's Removal-Fill
Law directs DSL to regulateremoval or placement of fill in " Waters of the State." The DSL, in
concert with the US Army Corps of Engineers, requires that any impacts to wetlands be
mitigated so there's no ' not loss' of the resource. The Oregon Departmentof Fish and Wildlife
ODFW) and Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) do not have direct permitting
authority on wetland fills, but instead review and provide technical advice on wetland
applications. The DSL gives notice of the permit applications to ODFW and DEQ, among other
agencies, for suggestions on reducing impacts to fish, wildlife, and water quality. However,
30 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 56 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinanc~ "65SOURCE
MANAGEMENT SECTION IS WATER RESOURCES
various agenciesresponsible for processing permits for individual projects have limited ability to
consider larger scale community needs or values. Only through an adopted Goal 5 or Goal 6
wetlands plan can a community impose its local control and direct agencies not to issue a fill
permit that is contrary to its plan.
The foundation of wetland planning is the LWI, which includes a comprehensive survey and
map of all wetlands in the study area, and a document compilingkey information about each
site. The inventory must provide sufficient information to support local wetland planning
decisions, and present the information in a manner accessible to citizens. For these reasons, a
set of specifications for LWI products was established as an OAR. In addition to the wetland
locations and descriptions, local plannersneed information on what functions and values each
wetland provides. This assessment of wetland qualities is conducted concurrently with, and is
part of, the inventory. As of 2010 Deschutes County has initiated a LWI for south county.
Replacingthe NWI with an LWI ( reviewed and approved by the DSL) will determine
jurisdictional wetland characteristics in portions of the upper Deschutes basin. It will examine
spatial information, includingFEMA floodplains, aquatic soils, areas with depths to groundwater
less than two feet, and riparian areas for wetland type and function.
Floodplains
Federal EmergencyManagementAgencyMaps
The Federal EmergencyManagement Agency (FEMA) maps flood-plains adjacent to the
following rivers and streams in Deschutes County. The floodplainalongthese rivers and
streams is recognized in a Flood Plain zone by the County.
Table 2. 5.6 - Floodplains Adjacent to Rivers and Streams
Deschutes River • LongPrairie
Little Deschutes River • D River
Whychus Creek • Sprint River
Crooked River • Indian Ford Creek
Paulin Creek
Source: Deschutes County GIS
Foodplainsare defined as the lowland and relativelyflat areas adjoininginland waters including
at a minimum, that area subject to a one percent ( 100-year recurrence) or greater chance of
flooding in any one year. Generally, river floodingalongthe Deschutes River has not historically
been a serious problem in Deschutes County. This is due to the porous nature of the local
geology, irrigation diversion canals and reservoir retention. Studies completedby the U.S. Army
Corp of Engineers have resulted in designatinga 100 year flood-plain for the Little Deschutes
River and WhychusCreek. Regularfloodingevents have occurred near the headwaters of
Tumalo Creek and in the Tumalo community. AlongWhychus Creek, the city of Sisters
frequentlyexperiences flooding, with the most significantevent occurring in 1964 (see also
Section 3.5).
Instream Water Rights
Oregon was one of the first states to acknowledgethat instream uses were beneficial and
create a framework for instream flow protection. Instream flows are those required to
McHUTEs COUNTY COMMIEHENSIVE PLAN ~-
N2011
11
p
Fare A CT& MffWSE7fKRA ZU AMOURCES
maintain ecosytem or other public needs. In 1987 the Oregon Legislature passedthe Instream
Water RightsAct and created the statutory framework necessary to establish instream water
rights. OWRD holds these rights in trust for the public, but they can be purchased, leased, or
gifted to the state by anyone ( OAR 690-077). The rights are intended to provide public
benefits such as fisheries enhancement, pollution abatement or recreation. OWRD regulates
instream rights in the same manner that they regulatetraditional water rights. instream flow
rights may not injure other water rights holders, cause the enlargementof a water right, and
exceed the flows necessary to increase public benefits ( OAR 690-077).
EstablishingNew Instream Water Rights
The majority of instream water rights held by the state of Oregon are junior water rights.
These junior rights are not often met during the summer irrigation season. Three state
agencies can apply for new instream water rights. The Department of Environmental Quality
DEQ), Department of Fish and Wildlife ( ODFV1) or Parks and Recreation Department
OPRD) can determine that instream flow rights are not adequate to provide specified public
benefits and can apply to OWRD for additional instream flow rights (ORS 537.336). In general,
instream water rights cannot exceed the estimated average natural flow of a stream.
EstablishingSenior Instream Water Rights
Three techniques in OAR 690 allow individuals or agenciesto create senior instream water
rights. First, individuals or organizations can lease an existing water right for instream use.
Individuals may lease all or part of their water right for instream use during all or part of the
year ( OAR 690-077). In the Deschutes Basin, the majority of leased water comes from
irrigation districts and their customers. Water rights created through instream leases have the
same priority date as the original water right. Leasingwater instream provides a flexible, low-
cost technique for improving instream flows, but it does not permanently protect water
instream.
Second, water right holders may permanently transfer existing water rights instream ( OAR
690.077). Permanent water transfers allow individuals to transfer water off of their land while
improving instream flows in the basin. They are often associated with a changein the character
of the land from agricultureto other uses. As with temporary transfers, instream water rights
created through permanent transfers have the same priority date as the originating water right
that was transferred instream.
Oregon's Conserved Water program provides a third technique for creating senior instream
water rights (OAR 690-018). This program is relativelyunique within western water law.
Oregon adopted its Conserved Water rules in 1987 to encourage water conservation and to
promote local cooperation in instream flow improvement. To be eligible for the Conserved
Water program, a water rights holder needs to satisfy the use listed on their permit with less
water than they have the right and ability to divert. Water rights holders who implementwater
conservation projects can lease, sell, or transfer a portion of their conserved water. At least
25% of the conserved water goes to the state, which transfers the water instream.
The water rights holder receives a proportion of the remaining conserved water that depends
on project funding. The proportion depends upon on what percentage of the Conserved Water
project is funded through public sources and on any special agreements that financing partners
have made with the water rights holder. Unless otherwise agreed upon, the water rights holder
32 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 58 of 238 - Exhibit B to OrdinancsLU" Ir p" OURCE
MANAGEMENT SECTION IS WATER RESOURCES
usuallyreceives between 25% and 7S% of the total conserved water. Instream water rights
created through the conserved water program usuallyhave the same priority date as the
originating water right. The three techniques, leasing, transfers and conserved water can be
used to place existing junior or senior water rights instream.
Instream Mows
Increasing the water flow on rivers and streams is important because low flows raise water
temperatures which provides inhospitable habitat for fish and aquatic life.
Irrigation
Stream flows in most of the upper Deschutes River Basin are controlled by the influence of
reservoir regulation and irrigation diversions near Bend. Storage reservoirs were constructed
by the irrigators for the purpose of storing water from the river during the non- irrigation
season to serve as a supplement to the natural flow of the river during the irrigation season.
Three reservoirs, Crane Prairie, Crescent Lake, and Wickiup were constructed by the Bureau
of Reclamation in the 1920s and 1940s, financed by loans secured and repaid by the irrigation
districts. The three reservoirs have a combined storage capacity of 347,550 acre- feet. Seven
irrigation districts distribute water to productive parts of the County, however not all of these
districts irrigate land completely within it Summer release from the reservoirs provide
instream benefits for wildlife, navigation, and water quality. Recreational use at many of the
projects is also significant
Nearly 90X of the streamflow from the Deschutes River in Bend is diverted through irrigation
canals during the irrigation season which typically runs from April through October. During the
summer months, the diversions cause a dramatic reduction of streamflow in the middle
Deschutes sub- basin. The porous, volcanic soil characteristic of this region causes as much as
SOX of the water that is diverted from the river in irrigation canals to seep into the ground
before it reaches the farm. As a result, irrigation districts need to divert twice the amount of
water they need to serve their patrons. These seasonal flow disruptions have contributed to a
decline in the overall health of rivers and streams includingdegraded fish habitat and poor
water quality.
Fisheries and water quality drive instream flow restoration in the Upper Basin. The reaches
historically supported salmon and trout populations. Anadromous ( fish that migrate between
fresh and salt water) salmon re- introductionefforts have drawn attention to water quantity
issues in the basin. Prior to current restoration efforts, sections of Whychus Creek and Tumalo
Creek typically dried up during the irrigation season due to extensive diversion.
Voluntary, market- based approaches, enabled by statutory law, provide the greatest
opportunity for restoring instream flows in the Deschutes Basin. Tools available include
instream transfers, leases, storage leases and allocation of conserved water. The Deschutes
River Conservancy, local irrigation districts and state and federal partners are working together
to restore water to reaches by using these tools.
Federal and state regulatoryapproaches also have the potential to affect instream flow
allocation. Federal approaches include the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act, the Clean Water Act,
and the EndangeredSpeciesAct. State approaches include the State Scenic WaterwaysAct and
instream flow rights to support aquatic life.
CDEESCHUTESC~ODUNM
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011 33
P9TO &L3t5S~ b i0 M ZU Irf -Pd~f
URCES
Fish and Aquatic Habitat
A discussion in the Wildlife section highlightsthe economic benefits that fishinggenerates for
Deschutes County. Protectingand enhancinglocal fish habitat can ensure those benefits
continue.
Naturally spawning populations of native rainbow trout and whitefish alongwith introduced
populationsof rainbow, brown and brook trout and kokanee salmon are present in streams and
reservoirs. Most natural lakes were historicallybarren of fish populationsbut today nearly all
suitable lakes are stocked annually with fingerling or legalsized rainbow, brook, brown and
cutthroat trout and kokanee, coho and Atlantic salmon. Lake trout have been introduced into
BigCultus Lake and have established a natural producing population. Most lakes do not provide
suitable spawning habitat and populations can only be maintained by continued stocking. It is
important to sustain the naturally reproducingpopulationsand to balance stocking programs
with the proper habitats.
Federal EndangeredSpeciesAct
As discussed in the Wildlife section of this Plan, species identified as threatened or endangered
by the National Oceanic Atmospheric Administration ( NOAA) Fisheries or the U.S. Fish and
Wildlife Service ( USFWS) are offered some protections under the EndangeredSpeciesAct
ESA). The act prohibits federal actions that jeopardize listed species and private actions that
result in a " taking" of listed species. The ESA protects threatened or endangered populations
or habitat of listed salmon and trout in the Deschutes Basin.
The Deschutes River and its tributaries provide spawning habitat for several populations of ESA
listed fish. Both wild summer steelhead and bull trout are currently listed as threatened under
the ESA. Historically, these two species thrived throughout the Basin. However, flow
modification and habitat degradationhave reduced available spawning habitat and limited
population sizes. Steelhead trout were historically present in waterways within Deschutes
County, includingportions of the Deschutes River, Crooked River, and WhychusCreek.
Historically, bull trout were found throughout the Deschutes River, the Little Deschutes River,
and the Lower Crooked. In Deschutes County, documented bull trout have been found in the
Middle Deschutes, but no documented spawning has occurred.
Bull Trout
Bull trout are currently listed as threatened under the Federal ESA in the Deschutes River
Basin. Bull trout are a cold- water fish of relatively pristine stream and lake habitat in the Pacific
Northwest. They have specific habitat requirements, including the " Four C' s". Cold, Clean,
Complex, and Connected habitat. Bull trout require the coldest water temperatures of any
northwest salmonid; they require the cleanest stream substrates for spawning and rearing; they
require complex habitats, including streams with riffles and deep pools, undercut banks and lots
of largelogs; and they need migratory routes from main river, lake, and even ocean habitats to
headwater streams for annual spawning and feedingmigrations. Critical habitat for Bull Trout is
located north of Lower Bridge Road below BigFalls on Bureau of Land Management land.
34 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 60 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinanc~ nT 88soURcE
MANAGEMENT SEcnON 2.S WATER RESOURCES
Steelhead Trout
The construction of the Pelton Round Butte dam complexwest of Madras in 1964 blocked the
migration of salmon and steelhead to the ocean. In 2005 a re4icensingagreement for the Pelton
Round Butte hydroelectric project included the establishment of the Pelton Round Butte Fund.
The fund is intended to support resource protection measures to mitigate project-related
impacts, includingthose that enhance and improve wetlands, riparian and riverine habitats, and
riparian, aquatic and terrestrial species connectivity.
The multi- organizationagreement for relicensingPelton Round Butte lays out a comprehensive
fish passage program that includes a solution to assist in juvenile fish collection and passage
efforts over the project's three dams. The plan facilitates the return of spring Chinook and
sockeye salmon to the Metolius River and steelhead to the Crooked River ( to Bowman Dam)
and the Deschutes River ( Big Falls north of Lower Bridge Road). As part of the plan, 200,000
steelhead fry were released into Whychus Creek in 2007. It is difficult to estimate when the
fish will return to WhychusCreek as adults ready to spawn and restore the natural cycle to the
stream, but it is estimated to be three to five years.
ESA and Deschutes County
The ESA requires the appropriate federal agency, NOAA or USFWS, to issue regulationsas
deemed necessary and advisable to provide for the conservation of the species. Deschutes
County is evaluating whether its local government policies and practices are sufficiently
protective of steelhead trout and their habitat. Specifically, Deschutes County desires to avoid a
take" of reintroduced steelhead trout, and reduce the potential of ESA- related enforcement
actions and third- party lawsuits. The County does not authorize or participate in high-risk
activities, such as water diversions, so there is minimal risk that the County's activities could
direcdy cause steelhead trout mortality. The County's practices, however, can indirectly affect
steelhead trout through changes in riparian habitat, floodplain function, erosion control, or
other practices that could negatively impact steelhead populations or habitat.
It is important to note that reintroduced steelhead trout are blocked from upstream
movement to the Upper Deschutes River at Big Falls, approximately 30 miles downstream from
Bend. As a consequence, there is minimal risk that the County's activities in areas alongthe
Deschutes River or its tributaries above BigFalls could have a direct impact on steelhead trout
populations or aquatic habitat. The County's practices, however, can indirectly affect steelhead
trout in the Deschutes River downstream of BigFalls through changes in water quality. Loss of
riparian shade through the applicationof County policies, for example, could increase water
temperatures in downstream portions of the Deschutes River.
The irrigation districts in the region, alongwith other local governments at a greater risk of
steelhead take, are preparing a Habitat Conservation Plan (HCP) to address the risks posed to
steelhead. An HCP is a five to six year process undertaken by entities whose otherwise lawful
activities are at risk of resultingin an accidental take. The plan outlines potential impacts these
activities pose to the ESA- listed species and identifies specific steps taken to minimize and
mitigate accidental take. If the plan is approved by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the
National Marine Fisheries Service, the entity is permitted to proceed with their activities,
provided the terms and conditions identified in the HCP are followed. The local HCP process
relating to steelhead was initiated in 2008 and expected to be completed by 2014.
DEEscHUTEs COUNTY
COMMM4EN~SNIVVEE
PLAN- 2011 35
P9yeWA" 9S6EM ~i0& ffh%~g NTf IftOURCES
Through a risk assessment conducted in 2008- 2009, it was determined that the potential risk
posed by Deschutes County governmental activities was minimal and did not require County
participation in the HCP. The risk assessment also provided recommendations for the County
to minimize exposure to a " take". Many of these recommendations to land use and stormwater
have been incorporated throughout this ComprehensivePlan.
Deschutes River Mitigation and Enhancement Program
The Deschutes River Mitigation and Enhancement Programwas created in 1991 as a result of a
Central Oregon Irrigation District ( COID) Hydroelectric Project (FERC License Application
No. 3571) and Conditional Use Permit 87-2. The program helps achieve ODFW habitat and
management goals and objectives within the Upper Deschutes River sub- basin, consistent with
the COID/ ODFW agreement. A condition of both the FERC license and conditional use permit
is that COID will provide ODFW with funds to develop and implement a fish and wildlife
habitat mitigation and enhancement program for the Upper Deschutes River Basin. On
October 7, 2008 the Deschutes River Mitigation and Enhancement Committee adopted an
Upper Deschutes River Restoration Strategydevelopedjointly by ODFW, Upper Deschutes
Watershed Council and the Deschutes River Conservancy.
Upper Deschutes River Restoration Strategy
The Upper Deschutes River Restoration Strategy (the Strategy) outlines necessary steps to
restore the structure and function of the Deschutes River between Wickiup Reservoir and
North Canal Dam. Activities have been identified to help achieve a restoration vision for the
upper Deschutes River and a clear set of actions and recognizable outcomes that will be
necessary for success.
Flows in the upper Deschutes River were remarkably stable under natural conditions. Irrigation
storage in Wickiup and Crane Prairie Reservoirs now largely dewater this reach between
October and April and artificially increase flow in the reach during the late spring, summer, and
early fall. The shift from a naturallystable flow pattern to a highlyvariable one has limited fish
populations in the Deschutes River. The 2004 Deschutes Sub- basin Plan identified that " stream
flow extremes, especially low or intermittent flows, are probably the most significant factors
limiting fish production in much of the Deschutes River sub- basin (sic) today." The ODFW
identifies improving redband trout and whitefish populations and determiningthe feasibility of
re- introducingbull trout as goalsfor the upper Deschutes River.
Restoration StrategyElements and Recommended Actions
As stated earlier, streamflow is the greatest limitingfactor in the upper Deschutes River.
Streamflow restoration and related actions have the greatest potential for improving ecological
conditions in the long-term. However, improving intra- and inter- annual flow patterns alone will
not be sufficient to achieve the restoration vision. There is a need for strategically determined,
short- term, local scale habitat enhancement and long-term, reach scale channel reconstruction
to complement streamflow restoration in the upper Deschutes River. Comprehensive
restoration monitoring will help to document current status and trends while improving actions
in the future. There is also a need for a research program to document emerging issues in the
upper Deschutes River, including water quality issues related to plant growth and nutrient
inputs. The high priority recommendations are summarized below.
36 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 62 of 238 - Exhibit B to OrdinanCSH"T 38souRcsMANAGEMENT SKTION 2S WATER RisouRCEs
Hi Priority Actions
Identifythe desired dimension, pattern, and profile of the upper Deschutes River.
Identifytarget hydrographand benchmarks.
Restore individual components of the hydrograph through temporary and permanent
water transactions.
Identify high-value, at- risk riparian areas.
Establish a comprehensive monitoring plan.
Support community organizing and information sharing.
Establish a research program to study emerging water quality issues.
Groundwater Quality
Generally, groundwater quality in Deschutes County is generally classified as being 'good,'
providing high quality drinking water to most of its residents. However, several productive
aquifers lie in shallow alluvial sediments that are vulnerable to contamination from human
activities and development.
The Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) Laboratory and Water Quality Divisions'
Groundwater QualityReportfor the Deschutes Basin (March 2006) identifies areas of concern for
groundwater contamination based on various sources of data and groundwater qualitystudies.
Based on collected data, development patterns and the geology of the underlyingaquifer, the
report makes recommendations for a couple of areas in the County. The report notes the
groundwater aquifer in the Redmond area is vulnerable to contamination from human activities
and recommends further study by the DEQ. The La Pine aquifer in the southern portion of the
county from the Sunriver area to the Klamath County line between Newberry Caldera and the
Cascades is an area of particular concern because of data collected through several studies and
the high level of development in the area. The report also identifies underground injection
systems that could contaminate the aquifer with pollutants from stormwater drywells or
sewage drillholes.
In South Deschutes County, the concern for groundwater quality arises from nitrate
contamination associated with on- site wastewater treatment ( septic) systems dischargingto the
shallow unconfined aquifer. The issue is small lots with highlypermeable rapidly drainingsoils
and a highgroundwater table with relatively cold water temperatures. Combined with the fact
that the majority of lots are served by on- site wastewater treatment systems and individual
wells, concern arose that nitrates from the septic systems could contaminate local wells and
the river system.
Considerable work has gone into studyingthe groundwater in South County. In 1999
Deschutes County and the Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) identified the need for
a better understanding of the processes that affect the movement and chemistryof nitrogen in
the aquifer underlying the La Pine area. In response, the U.S. GeologicalService ( USGS), in
cooperation with Deschutes County and DEQ, began a study to examine the hydrologicand
chemical processes that affect the movement and chemical transformation of nitrogen within
the aquifer. A primary objective was to provide tools for evaluatingthe effects of existing and
future residential development on water quality and to develop strategies for managing
groundwater quality.
GCDEsciwms
COUNTY COMntE*NsvE
SE
RAN - 2011 37
F'" A 9~ gtfi061%9cAa YMTf
URCES
Field research from the USGS study shows that in a 250- square-mile study area near La Pine
the groundwater underlying the La Pine sub- basin is highlyvulnerable and being polluted by
continued reliance on traditional onsite systems. Environmental impacts from residential
developmentinclude highernitrate concentrations in groundwaterthat is tapped for domestic
water supply and discharges to rivers. Nitrates are regulated by the federal Environmental
Protection Agencyand DEQ as a human health concern. Vulnerability of the shallow aquifer to
contamination led to concern that wastewater from septic systems poses a threat to the
primary drinking water supplyand local river systems. The Upper Deschutes and Little
Deschutes Sub- basins have abundant, natural sources of phosphorusfrom volcanic soils and
rocks so the rivers are naturally nitrogen limited. Nitrogen-limited rivers are sensitive to low
concentrations of available nitrogen until some other component becomes limiting, and that
may lead to ecological impacts.
In 2008 the County used the research on nitrates to adopt a ' local rule' that required South
County residents to convert their septic systems over a period of 14 years to alternative
sewage system technologydesignedto reduce nitrates. New septic systems were also required
to use alternative technologies. The County created a process to assist residents in funding the
conversions.
Many South County residents expressed concern over the costs involved with converting their
septic systems and disputed the science behind the rule. Placed on the ballet by petition, the
local rule was rescinded by voters in March 2009.
As of 2010 the DEQ is leading the effort to address nitrates in South County, with the full
cooperation of the County. One solution beingconsidered is creating a sewer system or
extending Sunriver's to serve some of the nearby areas. Sewer systems are tightly restricted on
rural lands by Statewide PlanningGoal I I and OAR 660-11, so the Department of Land
Conservation and Developmentis also involved in these efforts.
Surface Water Quality
The federal Clean Water Act requires identifying rivers that do not meet water quality
standards for several parameters. The DEQ periodicallyevaluates water bodies in Oregon
based on federally-approved water quality standards. A list of water quality impaired water
bodies is produced from this analysisand referred to by the section of the CWA, as 303(d)
listings. The list is the basis for developingstate standards for each pollutant entering a water
body. These Total Maximum Daily Loads ( TMDL) are used with Water Quality Management
Plans to outline how agenciesand individuals will meet water quality standards for those listed
water bodies.
The TMDL Water Quality Management Plans identify Designated ManagementAgencies (DMA)
that are required to develop and implement them. A DMA can be a federal, state or local
governmentalagency that has legal authority to address the contributing pollutants. A TMDL
implementation plan must indicate how the DMA will reduce pollution in order to address load
allocations.
Compliancewith Land Use Requirements
It is helpfulto coordinate TMDL implementation with local land use plans, such as this
Comprehensive Plan. That will ensure maximum coordination in addressing water quality
38 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 64 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ord inanC51!!'dTT?I" OURCE
MANAGEMENT SECTION 2.5 WATER RESOURCES
issues. To provide evidence that a TMDL implementationplan is in compliancewith local land
use requirements, in most cases the planshould:
Identify applicable acknowledgedlocal comprehensive plan provisions and land use
regulations, and
Explainhow the implementationplan is consistent with local planningrequirements or
what steps will be taken to make the local planningrequirements consistent with it.
The following are identified on the federal Clean Water Act 303(4) List for 2006 for not
meeting water quality standards. This list is regularly amended by DEQ so specificsegments are
not listed.
Rivers
Upper Deschutes River
Middle Deschutes River
Little Deschutes River
Tributaries
Indian Ford Creek
Tumalo Creek
Whychus Creek
Lakes
Lava Lake
Water and Land Use
There are some water issues that can be managedthrough County Codes, such as wellhead
protection or stormwater ordinances.
Water ManagementPlans
Water ManagementPlans can be useful tools for understanding water use for large projects.
Setting goals for water use, determining how much water will be needed, assessingoptions
such as the reuse of graywater for landscapingand ensuring implementation of the plan can go
a long way towards efficient use of water in new development. Water ManagementPlans
would not be needed for singlefamilyhomes or other small projects.
Well Head Protection
Wellhead protection ( WHP) is a plan designedto protect groundwater resources of Public
Water Systems (PWS) from contamination. A community's source of drinking water is an
extremely important resource, contributing to both the human and economic health of the
area. WHIP involves determining the area around the well most susceptible to contamination,
inventorying potential contaminant sources and implementing management strategies to reduce
the risk associated with those sources. WHIP is an investment in the future.
In Oregon it is recommended that an area large enough to encompass 10 years of groundwater
travel time be delineated so that if the aquifer becomes contaminated upgradient, there will be
sufficient time to devise a plan to deal with the contamination. Delineations as described may
extend in excess of several thousand feet away from a wellhead. Currently Deschutes County
does not have a wellhead protection plan.
CiEsCHuumsCouuNTYCoMnm%HtNs.~PA PP~LAN -X20111
a p
Stormwater
In 2005 the cities and counties of Central Oregon joined forces to protect local water
resources from polluted urban runoff, manage urban flooding, and meet new state and federal
regulatory requirements by developing comprehensive stormwater management guidancefor
the region. This new partnership provides opportunities to work more efficiently and
effectivelyand provide consistency and clout for the region.
The first major project the partnership undertook was the development of a regional
stormwater management manual. The Central Oregon Stormwater Manual provides
stormwater guidance for each participating jurisdiction. It was funded primarily through
jurisdictional contributions, and was coordinated by a committee of participating cities,
counties and the Central Oregon Intergovernmental Council.
Central OregonStormwater ManagementProject
The Central Oregon Stormwater Manual adopts best available stormwater management
guidance from Oregon and Eastern Washingtonto create a reference for engineers, builders,
and local government staff on the design and construction of runoff treatment and flow control
facilities. The Best Management Practices ( BMPs) that make up the core of the Manual are
intended to comply with all federal and state regulations. They are suitable to the unique
climatic and hydro- geologicconditions of the region, and will protect both water quality and
natural runoff patterns. In contrast to historic practices, non- undergroundinjection methods of
managingstormwater are encouragedand pre- treatment required for water injected
underground.
40 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 66 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinanc~ m 65youRCE
MANAGEMENT SECTION 2.5 WATER RESOURCES
sectLovi, 2. 5 Water Resource 1> oUcLes
Goals and Policies
Water Coordination, Availabilityand Conservation
Goal I Develop regional, comprehensive water management policies that
balance the diverse needs of water users and recognize Oregon water
law.
Polity 2. 5.1 Participatein Statewide and regional water planningincluding:
a. Work cooperatively with stakeholders, such as the Oregon Water Resources
Department, the Deschutes Water Alliance and other non- profit water
organizations;
b. Support the creation and continual updating of a regional water management
plan.
Polity 2. 5.2 Support grants for water system infrastructure improvements, upgrades or
expansions.
Policy2. 5.3 Goal 5 inventories, ESEEsand programs are retained and not repealed.
Goal 2 Increase water conservation efforts.
Policy2. 5.4 Promote efficient water use through targeted conservation, educational and, as
needed, regulatory or incentive programs.
a. Review County Code and revise as needed to ensure new development
incorporates recognized efficient water use practices for all water uses.
b. Encouragethe reuse of grey water for landscaping.
Polity 2. 5.5 Promote a coordinated regionalwater conservation effort that includes
increasing public awareness of water conservation tools and practices.
Policy 2. 5.6 Support conservation efforts by irrigation districts, including programs to
provide incentives for water conservation.
River and RiparianEcosystemsand Wetlands
Goal 3 Maintain and enhance a healthy ecosystem in the Deschutes River
Basin.
Polity 2. 5.7 Work with stakeholders to restore, maintain and/or enhance healthy river and
riparian ecosystems and wetlands, including the following:
a. Encourageefforts to address fluctuatingwater levels in the Deschutes River
system;
b. Cooperate to improve surface waters, especially those designatedwater
quality impaired under the federal Clean Water Act;
c. Support research on methods to restore, maintain and enhance river and
riparian ecosystems and wetlands;
d. Support restoration efforts for river and riparian ecosystems and wetlands;
e. Inventory and consider protections for cold water springs;
DEScHUTEs COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011 41
Pa A CEEM b'% 51%9c[ 1CL YffiTIiOURGEs
f. Evaluate waterways for possible designation under the Scenic Waterways
program;
X. In collaboration with stakeholders, map channel migration zones and identify
effective protections;
h. Develop comprehensive riparian management or mitigation practices that
enhance ecosystems, such as vegetation removal criteria.
Policy 2. 5.8 Support studies on the Deschutes River ecosystem and incorporate watershed
studies that provide new scientific information on the Deschutes River
ecosystem, such as the 2010 Local Wetland Inventory.
Policy 2. 5.9 Support educational efforts and identify areas where the County could provide
information on the Deschutes River ecosystem, including rivers, riparian areas,
floodplainsand wetlands.
a. Explore methods of ensuring property owners know and understand
regulations for rivers, riparian areas, floodplainsand wetlands.
Policy2.5. 10 Support the high priority actions from the Deschutes River Mitigation and
Enhancement Committee's 2005 Upper Deschutes River Restoration Strategy.
Goal 4 Maintain and enhance fish populations and riparian habitat.
Policy2. S.1 I Coordinate with stakeholders to protect and enhance fish and wildlife habitat in
river and riparian habitats and wetlands.
Policy2.S. 12 Promote healthy fish populations through incentives and education.
Policy 2. 5..13 Support healthy native fish populations through coordination with stakeholders
who provide fish habitat management and restoration.
a. Review, and apply where appropriate, strategies for protecting fish and fish
habitat.
b. Promote salmon recovery through voluntary incentives and encouraging
appropriate species management and habitat restoration.
Policy 2. 5.14 Review Habitat Conservation Plans for species listed under the Endangered
SpeciesAct, to identify appropriate new policies or codes.
a. Spawningareas for trout should be considered significanthabitat and should
be protected in rivers and streams.
b. Cooperate with irrigation districts in preserving spawning areas for trout,
where feasible.
Policy2. 5.15 Use a combination of incentives and/or regulationsto mitigate development
impacts on river and riparian ecosystems and wetlands.
Groundwater and SurfaceWater Quality
Goal S Protect and improve water quality in the Deschutes River Basin.
Policy2. 5.16 Support plans, cooperative agreements, education, water quality monitoring and
other tools that protect watersheds, reduce erosion and runoff, protect the
natural water systems/ processesthat filter and/or clean water and preserve
water quality.
42 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 68 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance l T a" OURCE
MANAGEMENT SECTION 2.S WATER RESOURCES
Policy2. 5.17 Coordinate with the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality and other
stakeholders on regional water quality maintenance and improvement efforts
such as identifying and abating point and non- point pollution or developing and
implementing Total Maximum Daily Load and Water Quality Management Plans.
Policy 2.5. 18 Coordinate with stakeholders to address water- related publichealth issues.
a. Support amendments to State regulationsto permit centralized sewer
systems in areas with high levels of existing or potential development or
identified water quality concerns.
b. If a public health hazard is declared in rural Deschutes County, expedite
actions such as legislativeamendments allowing sewers or similar
infrastructure.
Policy 2. 5.19 Work with the community to expand the range of tools available to protect
groundwater quality by reviewing new technologies, includingtools to improve
the quality and reduce the quantity of rural and agricultural stormwater runoff.
Policy 2. 5.20 Explore adopting new ordinances, such as a wellhead protection ordinance for
public water systems, in accordance with applicable Federal and/or State
requirements.
Land Use and Water Policy
Goal 6 Coordinate land use and water policies.
Policy2. 5.21 Coordinate with other affected agencieswhen a land use or development
applicationmay impact river or riparian ecosystems or wetlands.
Policy2. 5.22 Encourageland use patterns and practices that preserve the integrity of the
natural hydrologic system and recognize the relationshipbetween ground and
surface water.
Policy2. 5.23 Ensure water impacts are reviewed and, if necessary, addressed for significant
land uses or developments.
Policy2. 5.24 Evaluate methods of modelingthe cumulative impacts of new land uses or
developments on water quality and quantity.
Policy2. 5.25 Explore an intergovernmentalagreement with the irrigation districts for ensuring
irrigated land partitions and lot line adjustments are not approved without notice
to and comment by the affected district
Policy 2. 5.26 Exploreincorporating appropriate stormwater management practices into
Deschutes County Code.
Policy 2. 5.27 Support wastewater facilities and improvements where warranted.
Policy 2. 5.28 Support regulations, education programs and cleaning procedures at public and
private boat landings.
Policy 2. 5.29 Consider adoptingregulationsfor dock construction based on recommendations
of the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife and the Deschutes River
Mitigation and Enhancement Program.
DEHSCHUTEs
COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE
ELAN -
2011 43
Pa~~ IDIi tS TO ~fi~ f1C M - UU3-URCES
Sect%ow 2. 6 W' U01U,
Background
Wildlife diversity is a major attraction of Deschutes County. It was mentioned in many
Comprehensive Plan meetings in 2008 and 2009 as important to the community. Healthy
wildlife populations are often a sign of a healthy environment for humans as well as other
species. The key to protecting wildlife is protecting the habitats each species needs for food,
water, shelter and reproduction. Also important is retaining or enhancingconnectivity between
habitats, in order to protect migration routes and avoid isolated populations.
Wildlife is tied to land use planningbecause human developmentimpacts habitats in complex
ways. Wildlife protections are provided by federal, state and local governments. Oregon land
use planning protects wildlife with Statewide Planning Goal 5, Open Spaces, Scenic and
Historical Areas and Natural Resources and the associated Oregon Administrative Rule ( OAR)
660- 023 ( this Rule replaced 660- 016 in 1996). Statewide Goal 5 includes a list of resources
which each local government must inventory, includingwildlife habitat.
The process requires local governments to inventory wildlife habitat and determine which items
on the inventory are significant. For sites identified as significant, an Economic, Social,
Environmental and Energy (ESEE) analysisis required. The analysisleads to one of three
choices: preserve the resource, allow proposed uses that conflict with the resource or strike a
balance between the resource and the conflictinguses. A program must be provided to protect
the resources as determined by the ESEE analysis.
In consideringwildlife habitat, counties rely on the expertise of the Oregon Department of Fish
and Wildlife ( ODFW) and U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service ( USFWS). Those agenciesprovide
information for the required wildlife inventory and recommendations on how to protect
wildlife habitat on private lands. Note that this section focuses on wildlife, while fish are
covered in the Water Resources section of this Plan.
Wildlife Designations
ComprehensivePlonninffor Wildlife
Plan 2000, the Comprehensive Plan adopted in 1979, included a Fish and Wildlife Chapter with
policiesaimed at protecting wildlife. That Plan also noted the controversial nature of wildlife
protections. To implement the Plan policies, the Wildlife Area Combining Zone was adopted.
This overlayzone was intended to protect identified big game habitat through zoning tools such
as appropriate lot sizes and setbacks. In 1986 a River Study was completed and adopted into
the Resource Element. Goals and policies from that study, including wildlife goals, were added
to Plan 2000.
As part of State mandated Periodic Review, the County took another look at wildlife
protections to further comply with the requirements of Goal 5 and the then prevailing OAR
660.16. The County worked with the ODFW to obtain the most recent inventory information
on fish and wildlife resources in the county and to identify uses conflictingwith those
resources. This information was used to update the inventories and amend the ESEEanalyses.
M DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 70 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance 2011- 06HAmR
2 RESOURCE MANAGEMENT SECTION 2.6 WILDLIFE
In addition, ODFW provided information to support zoning ordinance provisions to resolve
conflicts between fish and wildlife resource protection and development. The County adopted a
Sensitive Bird and Mammal CombiningZone which identified and protected specific bird nests
or leks and bat hibernating or nursery sites.
Ordinances for Compliancewith Coal 5
During periodic review in 1992, Deschutes County met the requirements of Goal 5 by:
The adoption of Goals and Policies in Ordinance 92- 040 reflectingGoal 5 requirements,
including a Sensitive Bird and Mammal CombiningZone to identify and protect specific
bird nests or Ieks and bat hibernatingor nursery sites;
The adoption of Ordinance 92- 041 amended the comprehensive planto inventory each
Goal 5 resource, analyze conflictinguses, and analyze the ESEE consequences of protecting
or not protecting inventoried fish and wildlife resources;
The adoptionof zoning ordinance provisions in Ordinance 92- 042, as applied to
inventoried sites by the map adoptedby Ordinance 92- 046.
Wildlife Snapshot 2008- 2009
Source: CountyOS data
There are 816,649 acres in Deschutes County's Wildlife Area Combining Zone.
There are 40 sites protected by the Sensitive Bird and Mammal Habitat Combining Zone.
76% of County land is owned and managedby the Federal government through the U.S.
Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management.
Source: Fishing, Hunting, Wildlife Viewing, and Sheli ishingin Oregon, 2005 May 2009 Preparedfor
OregonDepartment of Fish and Wildlife byDean RunyanAssociates
Nearly $70 million was spent in Deschutes County on travel generated expenditures on
wildlife viewing, fishing and huntingby people from over 50 miles away.
Over 60% of the $70 million noted above was spent for wildlife viewing, with fishing
second with nearly 30% and nearly I OX on hunting.
a Over $ 8 million in revenue from fishing, hunting and wildlife viewing came from people
who live in the County or w' i 50 miles of the County.
Over 60% of the $8 million noted above was spent on fishing, over 20% was spent on
huntingand under 20% was spent on wildlife viewing.
All total, over $ 78 million was spent in Deschutes County on fishing, huntingand wildlife
viewing.
Deer MigrationCorridor
The Bend/La Pine migration corridor is approximately 56 miles long and 3 to 4 miles wide and
parallels the Deschutes and Uttle Deschutes Rivers. The corridor is used by deer migrating
from summer range in the forest along the east slopeof the Cascades to the North Paulina
deer winter range. Deschutes County adopted a " peer MigrationPriority Area" based on a
1999 ODFW map submitted to the South County RegionalProblem SolvingGroup. This
specific sub- area is precluded from destination resorts.
DESCHUTES COUNTY COMMIENENsivE PLAN- 2011 45
Deer Winter Range
The ODFW identified the Metolius, Tumalo and North Paulina deer winter ranges during
Deschutes County's initial comprehensive plan. The boundaries of these winter ranges are
shown on the BigGame Sensitive Area map in the 1978 ComprehensivePlan and have been
zoned with the Wildlife CombiningZone since 1979. The winter ranges support a population of
approximately 15, 000 deer.
In 1992, ODFW recommended deer winter range in the northeast corner of the county, in the
Smith Rock State Park area, be included in the Deschutes County inventory and protected with
the same measures appliedto other deer winter range. This area was officiallyincluded and
mapped on the Wildlife CombiningMapwhen Ordinance 92- 040 was adopted by the Board of
County Commissioners.
Elk Habitat
The Land and Resource ManagementPlan for the Deschutes National Forest identifies 6 key
elk habitat areas in Deschutes County. The ODFW also recognizes these areas as critical elk
habitat for calving, winter or summer range. The following areas are mapped on the Big Game
Habitat Area map and in the Deschutes National Forest Land and Resource ManagementPlan:
Tumalo Mountain
Kiwa
Ryan
Crane Prairie
Fall River
Clover Meadow
Antelope Habitat
The Bend and Ochoco District offices of the ODFW provided maps of the antelope range and
winter range. The available information is adequate to indicate that the resource is significant.
The antelope habitat is mapped on Deschutes County's BigGame Habitat- Wildlife Area
CombiningZone Map.
Sensitive Birds
Nest sites for the northern bald eagle, osprey, goldeneagle, prairie falcon, great grey owl, and
great blue heron rookeries are inventoried in Ordinance No. 92- 041. The area required for
each nest site varies between species. The minimum area required for protection of nest sites
has been identified by the ODFW in their management guidelines for protecting colony nesting
birds, osprey, eaglesand raptor nests.
Federal and State Wildlife Protections
Federal Protections
The primary federal protection for wildlife is the EndangeredSpeciesAct ( ESA), which sets the
preservation of biodiversity as its highestpriority. Under ESA, National Oceanic Atmospheric
Administration ( NOAA) Fisheries or the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service ( USFWS) list species as
threatened or endangered. ESA prohibits both federal actions that jeopardize listed species and
private actions that result in the " taking" of listed species. Court rulingshave explicitly
46 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 72 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance 2011- 0eAmR
2 RESOURCE MANAGEMENT SECTION 2.6 W LouFE
determined that habitat modification can lead to a "°taking," even if the modification does not
affect a specific individual member of the species. ESA authorizes civil and criminal suits be
brought against entities that violate its substantive or procedural provisions.
There are two fish species and one bird species listed as federally threatened or endangered in
Deschutes County. Fish are discussed under the Water Resources section of this chapter and
the bird, the Northern Spott--J Owl, has not been found on private lands.
State Protections
It is Oregon's policy "°to prevent the serious depletion of any indigenousspecies" (ORS
496. 012). The Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife maintains a list of fish and wildlife
species determined to be either threatened or endangered accordingto OAR 635. When a
species population is seriously depleted, recovery can be difficult and expensive as well as
sociallyand economicallydivisive. To provide a positive approach to species conservation, a
sensitive" species classification was created under Oregon's Sensitive Specie Rule ( OAR 635-
100-040). Table 2. 7.1 lists species in Deschutes County that are listed by either federal or state
wildlife agenciesunder the above mentioned laws.
Resides the listingsof endangered or threatened, species can be federallylisted as candidate
species or species of concern. State listingsinclude threatened, critical and vulnerable. Each
status has a definition specifyingdifferent actions.
DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011 47
PgeWN WEM i %'% T6 rQi 6* Y6h9yfD3
Table2.6.1- Special Status of Select Mammals, Birds, Amphibians, and Reptiles in
Deschutes County 2009
Species fete Status ederal Status
Mammals
California Wolverine Threatened Species of Concern
Fisher Critical
Frin led otis Vulnerable
Lon ared M Otis Speciesof Concern
Lon 1e ed M Otis Vulnerable Speciesof Concern
Pallid gat Vulnerable
Preble's Shrew Speciesof Concern
PygmyRabbit Vulnerable Species of Concern
Silver- haried bat Vulnerable Speciesof Concern
Small- footed Myotis Speciesof Concern
Spotted bat Vulnerable
Townsends western big- earedbat Critical Species of Concern
Yuma Myotis Speciesof Concern
81rds
American Peregrine Icon Vulnerable Delisted
Bald Ea a Threatened elisted
Black Tern Species of Concern
Black- backed Woodpecker Vulnerable
Ferru ' nous Hawk Vulnerable Speciesof Concern
Flammulated Owl Vulnerable
Great Gray Owl Vulnerable
Greater SateGrouse Vulnerable Speciesof Concern
Lewis' Woodpecker Critical Speciesof Concern
Lo erhead Shrike Vulnerable
Lon billed Curlew Vulnerable
Mountain Quail Vulnerable Speciesof Concern
Northern Goshawk Vulnerable Species of Concern
Northern Spotted Owl Threatened Threatened
Olive- sided Flycatcher Vulnerable Speciesof Concern
Pileated Woodpecker Vulnerable
Swainson's Hawk Vulnerable
Western Burrowing Owl Vulnerable* Speciesof Concern
White- head Woodpecker Critical Speciesof Concern
Willow Flycatcher Vulnerable Speciesof Concern
Yellow- breasted chat Species of Concern
Yellow- billed cuckoo Vulnerable Candidate
Amp nbans and Reptiles
Cascades Fro Vulnerable Species of Concern
Coastal tailed fro= Vulnerable Speciesof Concern
Northern Sagebrush Lizard Species of Concern
Oregon slender salamander Vulnerable Species o Concern
Oregon Spotted Fro Critical Candidate
Western Pond Turtle Critical
Western Toad Vulnerable
listed only for the Basin and RangeEcore ' on
Source: 2009 InteragencyReport and ODFW
48 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 74 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance 2011- OeAMR
2 RESOURCE MANAGEMENT SECTION 2.6 WILDLIFE
Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife
Oregon Conservation Strategy
In 2006 the Oregon Conservation Strategy (OCS) was adoptedby Oregon's Fish and Wildlife
Commission for the state of Oregon. Wildlife and habitat issues are often crisis- driven and
focused on individual species. The OSC is intended to provide a long-term, big- picturelook,
using the best available science, on how best to maintain and improve Oregon's species,
habitats and ecosystems.
This document is not intended to be a set of regulations, but rather it presents issues,
opportunities and recommended actions that can serve as the basis for regional collaborative
actions. The recommendations within the OCS can be used to address species and habitat
conservation needs, to expand existing partnerships and develop new ones, and to provide a
context for balancingOregon's conservation and developmentpriorities. The future of many
species will dependon landowners' and land managers' willingnessto voluntarily take action on
their own to improve fish and wildlife habitat.
The OCS works by defining ecoregions and offeringan overview of each region that covers a
variety of ecological, land use and economic issues. Parts of Deschutes County fall into three of
the ecoregions; East Cascade, Blue Mountains and Northern Basin and Range. For Deschutes
County this document offers a wealth of knowledgethat can be used to inform fish and wildlife
habitat policiesand protect and enhance ecosystems.
Fish and Wildlife Habitat Mitigation Policy
The ODFW's Fish and Wildlife Habitat MitigationPolicyprovides direction for their staff to
review and comment on projects that may impact fish and wildlife habitat. This policy
recognizes six distinct categories of wildlife habitat ranging from Category I - essential, limited,
and irreplaceable habitat, to Category 6 - low value habitat. The policy goal for Category I
habitat is no loss of habitat quantity or quality through avoidance of impacts by using
developmentaction if impacts cannot be avoided. The ODFW recommends avoidance of
Category I habitats as they are irreplaceable, and thus mitigation is not a viable option.
Categories2-4 are for essential or important, but not irreplaceable habitats. CategoryS habitat
is not essential or important, but has high restoration potential.
Interagency Report
In 2009 the USFW, ODFW, U. S. Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Management
collaborated to provide a report on Wildlife in Deschutes County, Updated Wildlife Information
and Recommendations for the Deschutes CountyComprehensivePlan Update (Interagency Report).
This report provided updated information to be used in revising the County Goal 5 inventory.
This update will be done as part of the Goal S review as described in Section 2.4 of this Plan.
The report also outlined numerous issues that the agenciesbelieve are important for the
County to address. The InteragencyReport generated debate over how best to protect wildlife
while also protecting the rights of property owners. Key issues from the report are touched on
below.
Economic benefitsof fish and wildlife. The report notes the ODFW report by Dean Runyan
regarding the economic benefits of fishing, huntingand wildlife viewing, includingthat Deschutes
County generated more freshwater fishing revenue than any other county in Oregon.
DESCHUTES COUNTY CompmHENSIvE PLAN - 2011 49
F9MeNWS~- MW1*W% T6f%9AWM49Y- ff03
Oregon Conservation Strategy. The report discusses the Oregon Conservation Strategydescribed
above and recommends that the County use it as a guide and reference for the maintenance
and enhancement of wildlife resources.
Threatened and EndangeredSpeciesand Speciesof Concern: The report recommends developing
and adopting measures to protect federal and state listed threatened and endangered species to
limit conflicting use.
Riparianand wetland areas for wildlife and fish: The report recommends completing and adopting
a Local Wetland Inventory. The current National Wetland Inventory was done at a scale so
that wetlands under 5 acres are not identified. Yet, those wetlands provide significanthabitat.
Note that as of 2010, the County has initiated a Local Wetland Inventory for South County.
OregonSpottedFrog. The report recommends adding an Oregon Spotted Froghabitat area to
the wildlife area combining zone and provides some specific ideas for protecting those areas.
The Oregon Spotted Frog can be found in the floodplains and wetlands along the Deschutes
River and Little Deschutes River, south of Bend. Riverine oxbows are particularly key habitat.
This frog is listed as a Federal Candidate and State Critical Species.
Shrub-SteppeHabitat: The report recommends the County consider impacts to wildlife and
habitat when developmentwill degradeshrub-steppehabitat. Shrub-steppehabitat provides
needed resources for numerous birds and mammals, including 12 Oregon listed sensitive
species, and one threatened species. Largeblocks of un- fragmentedhabitat with low human
disturbance are needed to support shrub-steppe wildlife. If avoidance of these areas is not
possible, providing for " no net loss' and a " net benefit" ( restoration) of shrub-steppe habitat
should be a vital component of any conservation plan.
Greater SageGrouse: The report provides recommendations for limiting conflicting uses near
sage grouse leks and habitat. The population management objective for sage- grouse in this
region (Prineville District), which includes portions of Deschutes and Crook counties, is to
restore sage grouse numbers and distribution near the 1980 spring breedingpopulationlevel,
approximately 3, 000birds. Many aspects of human developmenthave impacted sage grouse
populations and can be considered conflicting uses. Conservation efforts focused on maintaining
large expanses of sagebrush habitat, enhancingthe quality of existing habitat, and increasing
connections between suitable habitat patches would be most beneficial to maintaining healthy
sage- grouse populations. Breedingand nesting habitat is particularly important because it is
essential, limited and irreplaceable.
Critical Bird and Mammal Sites: The report does not recommend additional or modification of
existing protections for site specific sensitive bird and mammal sites, except for additional
protections for sage grouse. The report does provide a new inventory and site specific
recommendations that will be used to updatethe list of Goal 5 wildlife resources.
Game Species. The report does not recommend changesto the existing biggame winter range
or migration corridor maps. It does recommend that the County revise the uses allowed in
those areas to prohibit the following uses that generate activity, noise and habitat alteration:
Guest ranch
Outdoor commercial events ( i. e. Wedding Venues, Farmers Market)
OHV course
Paintball course
so DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 76 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance 2011 AiHArTER
2 RESOURCE MANAGEMENT SECTION 2.6 WILDLIFE
Shooting range
Model airplane park
BMX course
Sensitive Species: Table 2. 7.2 shows species considered sensitive to human disturbance. Mule
deer are the only species in decline.
Table 2. 7.2 - Big Game Population Estimates, Deschutes County (2009)
Specks Populaion
Mule Deer 9, 337*
Elk 1, 500
Pron orn 1, 000
Cougar 150
Black Bear 150
Silver Grey Squirrel 800
The management objective for the Paulin and Upper Deschutes Wildlife Management Units, primarily
in Deschutes County, is an April adult population of 18, 7000 mule deer.
Source: InwaSency Report
Fish and Wildlife Habitat MitigationPolicy: The InteragencyReport includes one recommendation
that is only from the ODFW. They recommend that the County require impact avoidance for
development that will impact Category I habitat and require a wildlife mitigation planfor
development that will impact habitat Categories2-5, to limit conflicting uses.
The InteragencyReport recommendations will be considered more closely when the Goal 5
review is undertaken.
Future of Wildlife and Habitat in Deschutes County
Coordination
Much of the wildlife habitat in Deschutes County is located on public lands. Federal lands make
up 76% of County lands with another 3% State or County owned. Federal lands are not subject
to County regulationbut as noted in the Forest section of this Plan, they are important
economic generators that also contribute to the community's quality of life, providing ample
opportunities for wildlife viewing, fishingand hunting. It should be noted that not all federal
lands are managedfor wildlife habitat.
Regardingpubliclands the County's role is to coordinate with the land management agenciesto
ensure development approved by the County does not impact wildlife.
Another area for coordination is with the Trust for Public Lands ( TPL). In 2009 this non- profit
group initiated a Greenprint effort that will identifyspecific areas needing protection, including
wildlife habitat. A survey done by this organization identified protecting wildlife habitat as
important to County residents.
Rural Development
The loss of wildlife species and habitat may lead to decliningrecreational opportunities, tourist
dollars and quality of life. Yet, many species are sensitive to human development, with some
species benefiting and some harmed by land disturbance. New structures or infrastructure can
fragment habitats. Barriers such as roads, dams or housing can interfere with migration routes
and connectivity leading to isolated and unhealthy populations. Development can also increase
DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVEPLAN- 2011 51
fte A ST W% T6fRRAMftiiuft3
non- native and invasive species. Most Deschutes County residents consider the local wildlife as
one of the benefits of livingin this region. With careful planning, many of the impacts to wildlife
habitat can be mitigated.
S2 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 78 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance 2011- OeAFTER
2 RESOURCE MANAGEMENT SECTION 2.6 WILDLIFE
sect-Low 2. 6 wil. dl,ife Polic6es
Goals and Policies
Goal I Maintain and enhance a diversity of wildlife and habitats.
Policy 2. 6.1 Goal 5 wildlife inventories, ESEEs and programs are retained and not repealed.
Policy 2. 6.2 Promote stewardship of wildlife habitats and corridors, particularlythose with
significant biological, ecological, aesthetic and recreational value.
Policy2. 6.3 Ensure Goal 5 wildlife inventories and habitat protection programs are up- to-
date through public processes and expert sources, such as the 2009 Interagency
Report.
Policy2. 6.4 Support incentives for restoring and/or preserving significant wildlife habitat by
traditional means such as zoning or innovative means, includingland swaps,
conservation easements, transfer of development rights, tax incentives or
purchase by public or non- profit agencies.
Policy 2. 6.5 Assist in providing information and education on wildlife and habitat protection.
Policy2. 6.6 Review the Oregon Conservation Strategywhen amendingthe Wildlife section
of this Plan.
Policy 2. 6.7 Use a combination of incentives, regulations and education to promote
stewardship of wildlife habitat and address the impacts of development.
Policy 2. 6.8 Balance protection of wildlife with wildland fire mitigation on private lands in the
designated Wildland Urban Interface.
Goal 2 Promote the economic and recreational benefits of wildlife and
habitat.
Policy2. 6.9 Encouragewildlife related tourism.
Policy 2. 6. 10 Coordinate with stakeholders to ensure access to significant wildlife and riparian
habitat through public or non-profit ownership.
Goal 3 Support retaining populations of Federal and State protected
endangered species.
Policy2. 6.11 Developlocal approaches, in coordination with Federal and State agencies, for
protecting Federal or State Threatened or EndangeredSpecies or Speciesof
concern.
DEscmuTES COUNTY COMMUNENSIVE PLAN - 2011 53
F eWATMSYM iii fW%T6f% ~ MY~u-ff03
sect~ow 2. 7 open spaces, scewL'c views Awd saes
Background
Open spaces are generallyundevelopedareas that are beingmaintained for some other
purpose, such as farms, parks, forests or wildlife habitat. Besides the value that stems from the
primary use of the land, open spaces provide aestheticallypleasingundevelopedlandscapes.
Because these areas are undeveloped they also provide additional benefits such as water
rechargeand safety zones from natural hazards like flooding.
Deschutes County has a rich abundance of open space. With public land ownership at close to
80X and extensive farms and forests, open spaces are an important draw for visitors and were
often mentioned as important to the area's qualityof life. Along with the open spaces, scenic
views were identified as important to residents. The backdrop of the Cascade Mountains, with
its vast forest and sagebrush landscapesand riparian and wetland habitats, all provide an
inspirational setting for visitors and residents alike. Statewide PlanningGoal S recommends, but
does not require, creating an inventory and protections for open spaces, scenic views and sites.
Oregon Administrative Rule ( OAR) 660- 023 defines open space designationsas parks, forests,
wildlife preserves, nature sanctuaries and golf courses.
Open Space and Scenic View Designations and Protections
The 1979 Resource Element contained a list of open spaces and areas of special concern, the
majority of which were in Federal and/or State control. As part of State Periodic Review in
1992, the list was updated. The Goal S review directed by Section 2.4 of this Plan will initiate an
update of that inventory.
As of 2010, open spaces are protected through an Open Spaceand Conservation map
designationand zoning district. Scenic view protection is implemented through the Landscape
Management Combining Zone regulations, with the list of landscapemanagement roads and
rivers in the Goal 5 resource list in Chapter 5 of this Plan.
Deschutes County Open Space and Views 2009
Source: CountyGIS data
There are 70, 634 acres in the Open Spaceand Conservation Zone
Nearly 6S% of the Open Spaceand Conservation Zone land is Federallyowned and
another nearly 12% is State owned
There are 32 roads/ road segments in the LandscapeManagement Overlay Zone
The Landscape Management Overlay Zone also applies to major rivers and streams
Future of Open Spaces, Scenic Views and Sites
Open Space
In Deschutes County, approximately76% of the land is owned and managedby the Federal
government and is not subject to County regulations. These lands remain mostly undeveloped
and contribute greatly to the open space in the County, including areas such as the Newberry
National Monument or the Three Sisters Wilderness Area and numerous high mountain lakes.
In addition, there are three state parks and three state scenic viewpoints that contribute open
S,
R Q ~~ y
DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 80 of 238 - Exhibit ~ Iff1(% 3iRffR8AC""G b!
NT SECTION 2.7 OPEN SPACES, SCENIC VIEWS AND Srm
space. Finally, private forest and agriculture lands act as open space, as do the numerous golf
courses throughout the County.
It can be expected that over the 20- year life of this Plan, most of the Federal lands will remain
undeveloped and will continue to function as open space. The State parks are also anticipated
to remain ( see Section 3.8). The County can work closely with federal and state agenciesto
protect these special areas. On private lands the County can lend support to voluntary
conservation easements and land trusts. As of 2010 private lands suitable for open space
designation were eligiblefor special property tax consideration ( ORS 308A. 300-330), because
they maintain high quality scenic environments for the benefit of the public.
Scenic Views and Sites
Scenic views can be found in nearly every part of the County. View issues generallyinvolve a
fine balancingact between the conflictingrights of property owners, neighbors and the wider
community. The following list presents some of the issues that have arisen recently.
A landowner cuts the swath of trees that block his/ her mountain views, thus impacting their
neighbors' views of forest lands.
A cell tower is proposed that will provide the cell phone service many people depend on,
but the heightof the tower impacts a neighbor's views.
A landowner wants to be energy self- sufficient and proposes a wind turbine, but the turbine
heightimpacts a neighbors views.
Views from roads and rivers have long been protected by a landscapemanagement overlay
zone. There have been questions as to the effectiveness and usefulness of this protection.
There have also been questions as to the right way to balance other scenic view areas.
DesignDevelopment
The scenic resources in the County include high mountain peaks, open meadows, riparian
corridors, wetlands and forests. These areas contribute to the highquality of life for county
residents. Developmentwill inevitably occur within some of these areas and the type and
placement of it can have a profound effect on the visual landscape. Appropriately placed and
designedbuildingscan complementthe natural environment and can serve as an extension to
the natural landscape. For example, keepingbuilding heights below the forest canopy and using
materials that blend with the forest can help maintain its visual dominance.
It is the goal of this Plan to encourage development designthat fits with the natural landscape.
It is not the intent of this element to dictate the type of design that should be used. In fact,
there are many types of architectural and site designstylesthat can complement the
surroundings.
Deschutes County Greenprint
One avenue the County can take is to identifyspecificsites or views that still need to be
protected. This work was undertaken in 2009 through the Deschutes County Greenprint. The
Trust for Public Land ( TPL) initiated the public process to create a Greenprint which identified
a number of values, including; open spaces, scenic views, wildlife habitat, forest land, farm and
ranch land, trails and water quality. TPL will also work with partners to identify sources of
fundingthat can be used to help purchase specific lands. Working with the TPL will provide the
County with important information that can be incorporated into this Plan.
CDEHSCHHuTEEsI~C~OODUNRTYCOMPRO41N~UV~EE
PLAN - 2011 55
PareW& cszsSIEM1&LO (7ra~n~Ag 5M 1= 9M SCENIC VIEWS AND SITES
sectiow 2. 7 opeo, spaces, scewic v% ews avid
Sites pol. icLes
Goal and Policies
Goal I Coordinate with property owners to ensure protection of significant
open spaces and scenic views and sites.
Policy 2. 7.1 Goal 5 open spaces, scenic views and sites inventories, ESEEs and programs are
retained and not repealed.
Policy 2. 7.2 Cooperate with stakeholders to establish a comprehensive system of connected
open spaces.
Policy2. 7.3 Support efforts to identify and protect significant open spaces and visually
important areas includingthose that provide a visual separation between
communities such as the open spaces between Bend and Redmond or lands that
are visually prominent.
Policy 2. 7.4 Encouragea variety of approaches that protect significant open spaces and scenic
views and sites.
Policy2. 7.S Encouragenew developmentto be sensitive to scenic views and sites.
Policy2. 7.6 Review County Code and revise as needed to protect open space and scenic
views and sites, including:
a. Provide incentives to locate structures in forests or view corridors so as to
maintain the visual character of the area;
b. Work with private property owners to provide incentives and mitigations for
protecting visually important areas from developmentimpacts;
c. Maintain and revise if needed, the LandscapeManagement CombiningZone
code to effectively protect scenic views while minimizing impacts on property
owners;
d. Review County Code, including sign and cell tower code and proposed wind
turbine code, to effectivelyprotect scenic views while minimizing impacts on
property and business owners;
e. Review County Code for ways to mitigate for developments that significantly
impact scenic views.
56 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 82 of 238 - Exhibit q( F('3iA1ffR&g" jN16b1NT
SECTION 2.7 OPEN SPACES. SCENIc viEws ANo SITES
sectiow 2. 2 EK.erguResources
Background
Land use decisions often have a direct effect on energy use and conservation. How
communities and buildingsare designedand what transportation and utility options are available
all impact energy usage. Energyis addressed in the Oregon land use system through Statewide
PlanningGoal 13, Energy, which requires land uses to be managedfor energy conservation,
based on sound economic principles.
A prime method of managingland for energy conservation is to design communities to be
compact and walkable, so as to limit the need for automobiles and conserve fossil fuel. For a
rural county, these types of transportation related energy savingsare limited. Instead the
County can focus on other conservation measures.
The second energy issue to be addressed is how to promote alternative energy generation,
while managingthe inevitable impacts. The impacts and problems stemming from traditional
fossil fuel energy sources such as oil and coal are clear, but little agreement exists over a
solution. As of 2010 there is an emphasis on promoting sustainable, alternative power
generation from wind, solar, biomass, hydroelectric or geothermal.
Energy Conservation
Energyconservation frees existing energy resources for other uses and saves money. It is
generally seen as a win- win, where the environment benefits from lowered demand for power,
and households benefit from lower electric bills. Conservation is also beingincorporated into
other sections of this Plan, includingWater Resources and Environmental Quality.
There are a few ways the County can work proactively to conserve energy. One is to apply
energy conservation techniques at County facilities, then track and publicizethe energy saved.
The County can also support local utility companies that provide energy audits. These
educational tools can alert the community to individual actions that can save money as well as
energy. Education could also be directed to address thermal ratings for new buildingsand to
promote more efficient lay- outs. Another option is to strengthenregulations, such as amending
subdivision standards.
The County has long promoted energy conservation through a passive solar code that requires
new structures to be sited so that they do not block the sun from falling on adjacent
properties. This code effectively ensures that all structures are able to obtain passive solar
energy. Various studies have shown that solar orientation can create significantenergy savings.
During implementation of the passivesolar code some simplerevisions have been identified
that could create exemptions for small lots and provide a variance procedure. These changes
would provide some flexibility to the existing code while retaining the benefits of passive solar.
Siting Energy Facilities
In general, cities and counties have siting authority over energy projects below a certain size or
generating capacity. This includes individual projects powering or supplementinghomes and
businesses or small commercial projects which produce energy for sale. Larger facilities are
McHuTEs COUNTY COMPREHENSIVEPLAN - 2011 57
PareVA C'EM ( 7f&%M Wff YOM
OURCES
regulatedby the Oregon EnergyFacilitySitingCouncil. The thresholds for SitingCouncil
jurisdiction are determined by the Legislature and are dsfined in Oregon Revised Statutes
ORS) 469. 300. The SitingCouncil does not regulate hydroelectric development. Instead, the
Oregon Water Resources Commission has the authority to issue licenses for hydroelectric
development.
Counties may face planningdecisions for the following types of energy projects:
Thermal power or combustion turbine electric generation projects having a nominal
electric generating capacity of less than 25 megawatts.
Wind or solar electric generating projects having a peak generating capacity of less than 105
megawatts.
Geothermal electric generating projects with a peak generating capacity of less than 38.8
megawatts.
Electric transmission and distribution lines carrying less than 230 kilovolts and less than 10
miles in length.
Biofuel production facilities, if the fuel producedis capable of being burned to produce the
equivalentof less than six billion Btu of heat a day or if the facility is otherwise exempt from
SitingCouncil jurisdiction under ORS 469. 320(2).
Althoughthe County is considered rich in alternative energy sources, a study of potential sites
would provide more specific information on where these sources exist. The map would also
allow a comparison between the energy sites and other protected resources.
Home and Business Alternative Energy Generation
The following are known viable sources of alternative energy production for individual homes
and businesses in Deschutes County. Impacts to be managed from these uses are increasingly
understood and are limited by the size of the projects. In 2010 the County is in the process of
creating code to permit small wind turbines for home or business use.
Wind
Small electric wind turbines for residential or small commercial use convert the energy of the
wind to electricity. A small wind turbine can produce from 500 watts to 100 kilowatts of
electricity, typically producing up to 10 kilowatts. Small turbines range in height from 60- 100
feet in height. Unobstructed access to a consistent wind resource is necessary for safe, efficient
operation of wind turbines. Oregon law allows landowners to secure a "wind energy
easement" to ensure the undisturbed flow of wind across a site ( ORS 105. 900 -.9 15).
The electricity generatedcan be stored in batteries for times of limited wind. If there is a
connection to a traditional power grid and excess electricity is produced, it is sometimes
possible to sell the excess to the local utility. The primary impacts from small wind generation
that need to be considered include: height of the structure, lot size, setbacks, noise, aesthetics,
abandonment and wildlife impacts.
Solar
Generally, small solar electric generating systems use photovoltaic cells on the roof of a
buildingto produce electricity from the radiant energy of the sun. The impacts from individual
solar projects are regulated through building regulations, rather than land use regulations. The
58 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 84 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance 1d - 10' SOURCE
MANAGEMENT SECTION 2.8 ENERGY RESOURCES
main issue with home or business use of solar energy is that as of 2010 it is not competitively
priced and requires subsides. This is anticipated to change as the technologyimproves.
Biomass
Biomass is solar energy stored in organic material from living plants. The most common and
most widely used source of biomass is firewood used to heat homes and to a lesser extent
small businesses. Additionally, biomass materials are being produced from waste products, such
as crop residue or forest thinning. The primary impact from home or business use of biomass is
air pollution. Although considered carbon neutral since the carbon release through burning was
carbon that was absorbed during the growth of the material and would be released as the
material decays, the particles caused by the burningmay impact air quality. Regulationslimiting
the burning of firewood are often enacted in urban areas, but are not as useful in rural
communities.
Commercial Energy Generation
The State oversees construction and approvalof largecommercial energy facilities, as noted
above. However there is a role for local governments to oversee smaller commercial projects.
Commercial energy generation is considerablymore complex than permitting small projects for
homes and businesses. From a land use perspective, the scale, extended time frame, investment
required and required off- site components all complicate the approval process. For example, to
move the electricity generated at an alternative energy facility to market there is often a need
for approval of roads, transmission lines or substations. The accessory facilities may or may not
be in place at the same site as the main facility, but are an integralpart of the project and are
currently reviewed separately, based on State regulations.
Although the commercial alternative energy systems listed below have some similarities, there
are often different requirements, advantagesand impacts to be considered. The primary impact
they all share is that they are large industrial structures that will impact the land through the
construction process, causing noise, dust, erosion, the spread of noxious weeds and similar
damages. These impacts can generallybe controlled through proper management of the site.
Other types of impacts to be noted are listed below.
Wind EnergyGeneration
There is a growing interest in commercial wind farms. As of 2010, a wind farm is undergoing
approval in Crook County, with some accessory uses to the wind farm being approved in
Deschutes County.
Wildlife impacts. Construction of wind energy projects may have both temporary and
permanent impacts on wildlife habitat. Bird or bat fatalities from collision with turbine towers
or blades have been reported. Requiringan applicant to conduct appropriate pre- construction
wildlife surveys as well as post- constructionmonitoring can address wildlife concerns.
Visual impacts: The need for high towers and exposure to open terrain is inherent in the
function of wind turbines, and therefore some visual impact is unavoidable. Careful placement
with a thought to nearby roads and homes can aid in limiting the visual impacts.
McHum CouNTY CompREHENsm KAN - 2011 st
Rr a VA SIEN W%r61%i % a4 °
uacEs
Solar EnergyGeneration
Various technologies assist in capturing, converting and distributing solar energy. State officials
have declared solar energy a priority sector in developingthe Oregon's economy. One of the
key regions for developing the solar power industry is Central Oregon, due in part to its
plentifulcool and sunny days, and the number of solar power companies alreadydoing business
here.
Wildlife impacts: The concentrated sunlightreflected by solar panelsor mirrors could kill or
injure wildlife, and in a sensitive habitat - such as a desert ecosystem - the environmental
effects might be significant. Similar to wind turbines, requiring the applicant to conduct
appropriate pre- constructionwildlife surveys and post- constructionmonitoring would also be
important.
Visual impacts. Solar facilities can stretch for miles and create visual impacts. Thoughtfuldesign
and placement are important for solar facilities.
Commercial Biomass
Commercial biomass uses organic material such as wood, agricultural waste or crop residues to
power boilers to generate heat. Accordingto the Oregon Forest Resources Institute an
estimated 4. 2S million acres ( about I S% of Oregon's forestland) have the potential to provide
useful woody biomass through thinningto reduce the risk of uncharacteristic forest fires. A
potential long-term use is converting woody biomass to biofuels and bioproductsto replace
fossil fuels.
Identified biomass opportunities include:
Warm Springs
Gilchrist
La Pine
Transportationimpacts. Biomass materials need to be transported to a central location, generating
traffic and air pollution. Buildinga biomass facility as close as possible to an available source will
mitigate this somewhat.
Visual impacts: A biomass plant is an industrial use with tall smokestacks, so visual impacts are
unavoidable. Similar to wind facilities, appropriate siting can go a longway towards mitigating
this concern.
Air qualityimpacts. There is potential for air qualityimpacts. These impacts will be managedby
the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality rather than the County.
Geothermal EnergyGeneration
Geothermal energy is a form of renewable energy derived from heat in the earth. This heat is
transferred to water through various means and the steam produced is used to produce
electricity.
Geothermal energy is completely dependent on the location of geothermal resources. Central
Oregon may contain some of the best prospects for geothermal exploration in the continental
United States. As of 2010 the area around Newberry Crater is beingexplored for potential
geothermal energy. This exploration is in the Deschutes National Forest and therefore does
60
t
DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 86 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordfinance % t
sOURCE MANAGEMENT SECTION 2.8 ENERGY RESOURCES
not need County approval. However, accessory uses such as substations or transmission lines
might potentially require County review.
A 1984 a Geothermal Study was adopted into the Resource Element of the Comprehensive
Plan and led to more specific regulations for geothermal energy generation beingadopted into
the Zoning Code in 1991.
HydroelectricEnergyGeneration
Irrigation canals in Central Oregon are now beinglooked at as more than just a way to
distribute water from the Deschutes River to farmers and ranchers. With energy costs rising
and the desirabilityor renewable energy sources, the power of water rushingthrough the
canals is seen as a source of power and revenue. Hydropower projects that are currently
constructed include:
Central Oregon Irrigation District ( COID) has installed two hydropower projects totaling
10.5 megawatts ( MW). The Siphon Power Project (5.5 MW) in the south part of Bend and
the juniper Ridge Power Project (5.0 MW) approximately 5 miles north of Bend.
SwalleyIrrigation District has installed a hydropower project totaling 750 kilowatts ( kW) in
their main canal S. I miles below an existing diversion.
Additionally, Tumalo Irrigation District received a grant with which they conducted a
hydroelectric feasibility study.
In 1986 a River Study was adopted into the Resource Element of the ComprehensivePlan and
led to more specificregulations for hydroelectric energy generation being adopted into the
Conditional Use section of the Zoning Code in 1991.
Future of Energy
Energyconservation is likely to be an ongoing issue over the next few decades and the County
can continue to promote more efficient energy use. As for alternative energy facilities, the State
of Oregon promotes these through a requirement that utility suppliers include renewable
energy in their portfolios. Additionally, the State offers numerous tax credits and other
incentives for both commercial and individual alternative energy projects.
The Rural Renewable EnergyDevelopmentZone is another State initiative. These zones
encourage investment in alternative energy throughgranting tax exemptions, similar to an
enterprise zone. This idea should be investigatedfurther as an option for the County.
Looking at County regulations in place in 2010, the acreage needed to allow a utility facility is
likely on farm or forest lands. Farm and forest land is highly regulated through ORS and OAR.
State requirements for utility facilities and accessory uses have been incorporated into the
County Zoning Code. Additionally, utility facilities and accessory uses are permitted in most
non- farm or non- forest zones, subject to the general conditional use and site plan
requirements. The County has additional conditional use regulations for geothermal and
hydroelectric facilities, but not for wind or solar energy. The geothermal and hydroelectric
regulations are over a decade old and may no longerbe effective given the growth of the
industry and technology.
In considering existing or potential new regulations, thought should be given to not just the
energy generation facility, but also the necessary accessory uses, such as transmission lines,
DEESCHUTESCOUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011 61
Fgre llDli ti i0 C7fglfRAY % T- W
u ROES
roads or substations that are necessary to market the energy produced. Regulationsshould
also acknowledge that some forms of alternative energy are dependent on the location of the
power source, such as geothermal and hydroelectric. Another area to consider for the
regulations is how to provide incentives to energy providers to encourage them to first offer
the energy they generate to local utility companies. The review of regulations should also
consider how other protected resources would be impacted by the developmentof alternative
energy facilities.
In reviewing regulations, the County should coordinate with agencies, organizations and
businesses with expertise in the alternative energy field. For example, an Interagency Working
Group (Working Group) comprised of Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife, United States
Fish and Wildlife, United States Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Management created a
report ( InteragencyReport, see Section 2.7 of this Plan) that includes a number of
recommendations for protecting wildlife when approving alternative energy facilities. A review
of these recommendations will provide valuable information on managingwildlife impacts from
new energy facilities.
New regulationsshould ensure that the County's are in compliance with State requirements,
are flexible and minimally intrusive so as to encourage interest, provide incentives where
feasible and still manage impacts to the rural community and natural environment.
62 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 88 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance 16I T- 5E'OURCE
MANAGEMENT SECTION 2.S ENERGY REsoURCEs
seo ova 2. 2 EvvereN POU'u11es
Goals and Policies
Goal I Promote energy conservation.
Policy 2. 8.1 Incorporate energy conservation into the building and management of all County
operations and capital projects using regularenergy audits to refine the results.
Policy 2. 8.2 Reduce energy demand by supporting energy efficiency in all sectors of the
economy.
Policy 2. 8.3 Encourageenergy suppliers to explore innovative alternative energy
conservation technologiesand provide energy audits and incentives.
Policy 2. 8.4 Support stakeholders that promote energy conservation.
Policy 2. 8.5 Review County Code and revise as needed to ensure effective energy
conservation regulations, such as revising County Code on solar energy to
create flexibility and permit exceptions for small properties and sites with
specific anomalies.
Goal 2 Promote affordable, efficient, reliable and environmentally sound
energy systems for individual home and business consumers.
Policy2. 8.6 Review County Code and revise as needed to permit alternative energy systems
for homes and businesses and mitigate impacts on neighboring properties and
the natural environment.
Policy 2. 8.7 Support incentives for homes and businesses to install alternative energy
systems.
Goal 3 Promote affordable, efficient, reliable and environmentally sound
commercial energy facilities.
Policy 2. 8.8 Review County Code and revise as needed to develop an efficient permitting
process and effective siting standards for commercial renewable energy projects
that address all project components as well as environmental and social impacts.
Policy2. 8.9 Supportcommercial renewable energy projects, includingthe following:
a. Review the concept of Rural Renewable EnergyDevelopment Zones;
b. Support studies that identify and inventory potential significant commercial
energy resource sites;
c. Examine alternatives to protect identified significantcommercial energy
resource sites;
d. Supportthe use and marketing of methane gas from County Landfills.
Policy2.8.10 Encouragecommercial renewable energy providers to supply local power.
Policy 2. 8.11 Goal 5 energy inventories, BEES and programs are retained and not repealed.
DESCHUTES CouNTY ComPRe FNsnii PLAN
p-X20111
C
gre W ATM C-
Sectiow 29 eV. vivowvu.CwtAl, GvtAl.itu
Background
Environmental quality is addressed in Statewide PlanningGoal 6, Air, Water and Land
Resources Quality, which requires local governments to comply with applicable state or federal
environmental regulationsregardingwaste and process dischargesfrom the combined effect of
new and existing development. The Oregon Departmentof Environmental Quality (DEQ) is
the regulatorystate agency primarily responsible for monitoring and enforcing both federal and
state environmental regulations. They issue and enforce permits for pollution control and
monitor air, water and land quality.
Still, a DEQ fact sheet ( DEQ 06- OD-001 1/ 09) shows that more than 80% of land, air and
water pollution comes from the daily activities of Oregonians, such as driving cars and fertilizing
lawns. Because the majority of pollution comes from everyday actions, there is much that can
be done locally. There is a growing awareness that seemingly small individual actions, such as
employingreusable grocery bagsor dumpingused motor oil down the drain, can cumulatively
impact the environment, either positively or negatively.
The concept of sustainable developmentthat meets the needs of today without compromising
the needs of future generations, provides a context for thinking about future growth. It is a
common sense way to be sure that the consequences of collective actions are understood.
Two primary methods for the County to promote careful stewardship of the environment are
by setting a good example through County actions and by providing information to the
community on a variety of environmental issues. Additionally the County can thoughtfully
manage the impacts of growth on the environment in cooperation with other agencies,
organizations and jurisdictions.
Clean Air
Deschutes County air is monitored by the DEQ and is generallygood quality. One of the
primary air qualityissues nationally and locally, is the pollution from automobiles. Deschutes
County is somewhat limited in addressingthis issue since rural homes are spread out over long
distances, makingalternatives to the automobile such as bicyclesor transit challenging. One
way to address this is to cooperate with cities in promoting smart growth in urban areas. Smart
growth uses thoughtfuldesignto build compact neighborhoodswith a variety of transportation
alternatives such as transit or trails.
Forest fires are the other primary sources of air pollution in this area. The County is actively
working to prevent and control forest fires, but this issue is multi- jurisdictionaland involves
cooperation and education ( see Section 3.5).
Another air quality issue that has been raised is the potential problems that come from allowing
new residential uses to locate near existing mining or industrial uses. One way to deal with this
issue is to consult DEQ on these approvals so they can make recommendations for siting the
residential use based on prevailing winds.
64 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 90 of 238 - Exhibit B to 0rdin9flCe d
CE MANAGEMENT SECTION 2.9 ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
Clean Water
Water quality issues cannot be separated from the issues of water availabilityand the health of
rivers and streams. Concerns over water quantity and quality were noted frequently in public
meetings as a key issue for the County going forward. Water issues are addressed in this Plan
in Section 2.5 Water Resources and Section 3. 10 under South Deschutes County's Regional
Problem Solving.
Clean Land
Land provides essential food, shelter, raw materials and plant and animal habitat. Maintaining
healthy and productive land is key to every section of this Plan. Yet, land quality is generally
discussed in relationshipto specificdevelopedsites with possiblepollution, such as gas stations,
land fills or dry cleaners. DEQ maintains a list of potentiallypolluted sites in Deschutes County
and works with property owners to enforce state and federal regulations.
Any developmenthas an impact on the land and many of those impacts can be controlled
though understanding, education and if needed, regulation. The following issues have been
raised:
Noxious Weeds
Noxious weeds are a serious issue in Deschutes County. These non- native and sometimes
poisonous species overrun native vegetation, shelter undesirable insects, consume scarce water
and infest crops. They can and do grow anywhere, but thrive on disturbed surfaces. Roadsides,
former farmlands, inactive surface mines and non- landscapedareas around construction sites
are all prime sites. Weeds on any one property have a major affect on the maintenance of
others.
The County has a Weed District as defined by Oregon Revised Statute ( ORS) 570. 500-600,
with a Board that oversees education and active weed eradication. Enforcement procedures
have been initiated that include citations and fines. A review of opportunities to regulateweeds
through the Zoning Code should be explored. These regulationsshould require not just
eradication but also restoration, to prevent further infestations.
Sustainable Green Building
Both during construction and over time, buildingsimpact the environment. Green building
focuses on design, construction and operation of buildingsthat efficiently use energy, water and
materials, while promoting a clean environment. Environmentallyfriendly developmentcan be
extended to include utility facilities/lines and roads. There are industry accepted standards that
have been developedfor creating low impact and efficient buildings, such as those of Leadership
in Energyand Environmental Design (LEED).
Additionally innovative, environmentally-friendly buildingtechniques, like straw bale
construction are regularlybeing proposed. The County can review the State buildingcode to
promote flexibility and safety in reviewing design innovations. Another step is to continue to
advocate green buildingby providing information to the public.
Noise and Light Pollution
Noise is often defined as unwanted sound. It can vary in frequency, duration and intensity. In
Deschutes County noise is regulated in the Health and Safety section of County Code.
DESCHuTEs COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011 65
FI9rVAFWSYM W% TaffiA%Q9 " 11?
NTAL QUALITY
However, often noise issues arise out of specific land uses. As a rural county, some noise from
farming and forestry practices is normal and permitted. Still, in 2010 attempts to increase the
types of uses allowed on rural residential and farm lands have raised the question of how much
noise is appropriate. Noise travels long distances in rural areas and can impact the quality of life
for rural residents. The County will continue to address noise concerns as specific land uses are
proposed and regularlyevaluate the current noise restrictions.
In Deschutes County night skies are expansive and in the rural darkness the stars and Milky
Way are brightly visible. The University of Oregon maintains the Pine Mountain Observatoryto
take advantage of these conditions. In 1994 Deschutes County adopted an outdoor lighting
ordinance to allow residents to light their properties as needed, but to ensure the lightingdoes
not illuminate outside the owners property. This ordinance needs to be retained and reviewed
regularlyto ensure adequate protection of the nighttime darkness.
Solid Waste / Recycling / Hazardous Waste
Oregon law establishes a hierarchyfor managingsolid waste with a goal of minimizing waste
disposal. The first step is to prevent waste generation, followed by reuse, recycling, composting
and energy recovery. Only if those options are not available does disposal come into play.
Although recyclingprograms frequently have an economic cost, they provide environmental
benefits though conserving energy and landfill space. The key to successful recyclingis the
availability of markets for recycled goods.
Deschutes County's Solid Waste Department, in response to State Statute and community
demand, continues to refine existing recycling programs and explore new programs and
opportunities. As of 2010 programs include education, curbside recyclingand free and
convenient drop off sites. Also available, although more limited, is free disposal of hazardous
waste and electronic waste. One aspect of recyclingthat could be strengthenedis recycling of
construction waste. Deschutes County's task is to continue to manage waste in a manner that
is fiscally responsible, environmentally thoughtful and in compliance with state and federal
regulations.
Area of Critical State Concern
The Oregon legislature first authorized the designationof an Area of Critical State Concern
ACSC) as part of the legislationcreating the statewide land use program ( Senate Bill 100) in
1973. At that time, several areas were identified as possiblywarranting state protection in the
face of uncontrolled development, includingthe Columbia River Gorge, areas of the Oregon
Coast, and portions of the Metolius basin. Several of these areas were later protected through
federal action, or through special state land use goals.
On July 15, 2009 the LegislativeAssembly enacted HB 3298. House Bill 3298, designatesthe
Metolius basin and an adjoining area as the Metolius Area of Critical State Concern ( Metolius
ACSC) and approves an accompanying management plan submitted by the Land Conservation
and Development Commission ( LCDC). The legislatureapproved the management plan and
directed the LCDC to adopt the plan, by rule, with specified changes.
HB 3298 approves the designation of the Metolius Area of Critical State Concern as
recommended by LCDC. This area includes the Metolius drainagebasin and an adjoining area
Areas I and 2 in the management plan), which are located in portions of Jefferson and
Deschutes Counties ( near Black Butte). The prohibition of new destination resorts applies to
66 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 92 of 238 - Exhibit B to OrdinRflCed" r
MANAGEMENT SECTION 2.9 ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
eligible lands mapped previouslybyJeffersonand Deschutes Counties in the Metolius Area of
Critical State Concern.
The following uses are prohibited in the Metolius Area of Critical State Concern management
plan approved under HB 3298:
Any new destination resort, as defined by Statewide PlanningGoal 8 or ORS 197. 435 to
197. 467.
Any new golf course.
Certain new residential, commercial, industrial or new uses exceeding a stated number of
dwelling units, or exceeding an average annual consumptive use of water, depending
whether the land is in Area I or Area 2.
ccDESCHu
ES
Co~~uNTYC~omr
rENssPA PLAN -
N2011
NTrv QuAU7YPa Clfl3t3 t i W% 6% a li ~g "10
sectiov11 2.9 evvvLrovxwt.ewtaL aaxo[ , its T>oL
I
b a. Les
Goals and Policies
Goal 1 Maintain and improve the quality of the air, water and land.
Policy 2. 9.1 Support environmental stewardship in County operations and capital projects,
including where feasible, using resource- efficient building techniques, materials
and technologiesin County building projects.
Policy 2. 9.2 Maintain County noise and outdoor lightingcodes and revise as needed.
Policy 2. 9.3 Where research identifies environmentallysensitive areas, work with agencies
and stakeholders to protect those areas or minimize adverse land use or
development impacts.
Policy 2. 9.4 Be a leader in the control of noxious weeds and invasive species through
education and regulations.
a. Support education for the community and for County departments on how to
recognize and report on noxious weeds.
Goal 2 Promote sustainable building practices that minimize the impacts on
the natural environment.
Policy2. 9.5 Review County Code and revise as needed to promote the use of resource.
efficient building and landscapingtechniques, materials and technologiesfor new
construction and renovation projects.
Goal 3 Encourage and increase recycling.
Policy 2. 9.6 Encourageand support reuse through education and recycling through the
Recycling Program.
a. Provide convenient recycling at all County events and in all County facilities.
b. Provide convenient opportunities to recyclematerials and compost green
waste in locations at transfer stations and through home pick up.
c. Provide convenient opportunities for disposalof hazardous waste and e-
waste.
d. Aim for 80% recyclingof construction waste in all County buildingprojects.
e. Promote 20X recycling of construction waste in all projects requiring a
building permit.
L Support businesses and industries that utilize recyclable materials.
68 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 94 of 238 - Exhibit B to OrdinC'cMa
A
SCE
MANAGEMENT SECTION 2.9 ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
5ect~oj,4. 2. j0 surface Ml,V L
Background
Surface mining providesnon- renewableresources, such as pumice, cinders, buildingstone, sand,
graveland crushed rock. The extraction of these materials providesemploymentas well as
products important to local economic development. Yet mining of mineral and aggregate
resources creates noise, dust and traffic and potential pollution that can conflict with
neighboring land uses, particularlyresidential uses. This conflict can be aggravatedby delayed or
incompletereclamation of the land. Surface mining is protected through Statewide Planning
Goal 5, Natural Resources, Scenic and Historic Areas and Open Spacesand the associated
Oregon Administrative Rule ( OAR) 660- 023 ( this rule replaced660- 016 in 1996). Mineral and
aggregate resources are included on the list of Statewide Goal 5 resources that the County
must inventory and protect.
Surface Mining Designations
In the 1979 Plan, the County had a chapterdiscussingdemand for aggregate, based on
anticipated population growth. In 1990 after a lengthylegalchallengeand additional research, an
updated inventory, mining analysisand revised regulationswere adopted. County sites were
designated under OAR 660- 016 and continue to be regulatedunder those rules. Since that
time, additional sites have been added to the inventory under the OAR Safe Harbor
regulations, at the request of property owners and after a Goal 5 Economic, Social,
Environmental and Energy (ESEE) analysiswas completed as required by OAR 660. 023. The
inventory of surface mining sites can be found in Chapter S. It is unclear if sites on this list are
still beingactively mined, exhausted or beingheld for future mining. This list will be reviewed as
part of the proposed Goal 5 analysisaddressed in the Goal 5 section of this chapter (Section
2.4).
Surface Mining in 2009
Source. CountyGIS and ComprehensivePlan information
There are 9, 452acres in the Surface Mining Zone.
There are 57, 908 acres in the Surface MiningImpactArea CombiningZone.
62 surface mine sites on the County GIS mapping system.
112 surface mine sites in the Comprehensive Plan inventory.
Several sites in the County appear to be no longer mined, and are either abandoned or have
been officially reclaimed, but have not rezoned.
Future of Mining in Deschutes County
Surface mining provides an important product but also can create conflicts between mines and
residences. Additionally, surface mining plays a role in spreading noxious weeds and impacting
water quality, and should be examined for potential control measures. A review of County
regulations can insure that the Code is adequately protecting the resource and the community,
in conjunction with the Oregon Department of Geologyand Mineral Industries.
DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVEPLAN
pp-
2011
M
Pa Xr11Dli t i3r1~d A66TINING
SCO 0V1, 2. 10 Svwface M" V." V%,o T>oLL es
Goals and Policies
Goal I Protect and utilize mineral and aggregate resources while minimizing
adverse impacts of extraction, processing and transporting the
resource.
Policy2. 10.1 Goal 5 mining inventories, ESEEs and programs are retained and not repealed.
Policy 2. 10.2 Cooperate and coordinate mining regulationswith the Oregon Departmentof
Geologyand Mineral Industries.
Policy2. 10.3 Balance protection of mineral and aggregate resources with conflicting resources
and uses.
Policy 2. 10.4 Review surface mining codes and revise as needed to consider especially
mitigation factors, imported material and reclamation.
Policy 2. 10.5 Review surface mining site inventories as described in Section 2.4, including the
associated Economic, Social, Environmental and Energy (ESEE) analyses.
Policy 2. 10.6 Support efforts by private property owners and appropriate regulatory agencies
to address reclamation of Goal 5 mine sites approvedunder 660- 016 following
mineral extraction.
70 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 96 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance fMrR) JKEsouRCE
MANAGEMENT SECTION 2. 10 SURFACE MINING
5ecti ova. 2- ti aR tRo L a wol WstorLc Resources
Background
Historic buildingsand sites connect us to the past and teach us how people in different eras
managed resources and worked within their surroundings. Interesting information can be
gleanedthrough an examination of significantbuildings, rock shelters, cemeteries and individual
graves, ranches, trails, wagon train routes, townsites, mill sites, fish hatcheries, river crossings,
bridges, canals, dams, historic roads and other unique resources. These resources enrich the
community by providingtangibleevidence of our heritage.
Historic resources are recognized by Statewide PlanningGoal 5, Natural Resources, Scenic
Views and Historic Areas and Open Spaces, and Oregon Administrative Rule ( OAR) 660. 023.
The Statewide Goal and OAR recommend, but do not require, the County to inventory and
protect historic and cultural sites.
Historic Designations
In 1979 the County inventoried potential historic and cultural sites in the Resource Element.
The 1979 Plan included goalsand policies for protection of historic resources as well as
provisions that the County establish a Historical Landmarks Commission and adopt an
ordinance to protect designatedhistoric sites.
On September17, 1980 the Board of County Commissioners adopted Ordinance PL-21, which
established a Historical Landmarks Commission and created a process to evaluate, designate
and regulate historic structures.
The Historic Landmarks Commission subsequently, and over time, evaluated proposed historic
sites. The resultinginventory of historically designated sites can be found in Chapter 5. This
inventory will be reviewed as part of the Goal 5 review as described in the Goal 5 section of
this Plan. Startingin 1997, all historic and cultural designationshave been initiated at the
request of property owners through the ComprehensivePlan text amendment process.
Cukural and Historic Resources 2010
Source: CountyGIS and ComprehensivePlan Information
36 Historic or Cultural sites in the ComprehensivePlan Inventory
6 Sites in Deschutes County on the National Historic Register
Future of Cultural and Historic Resources
Deschutes County supports the voluntary preservation of significantcultural and historical
sites. Going forward there are a few issues regarding cultural and historical resources that need
to be addressed. The first is to clarify that the County's role is to cooperate with the Historic
Landmarks Commission. That body contains persons with expertise in historic and cultural
preservation.
Another concern is that the current County inventory is old and contains incomplete
information on some of the sites. Additionally it does not include sites on the National Register
of Historic Places. Adding these sites to the list would not require any action from the property
DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN-N2201
1 71
F I~ RTFt~ 2~CE~ M r~ 7T0TUS~QIf1Qdf1C~ 12% TMAND
HIsTORIC RESOURCES
owner or County, but would ensure the list is useful to the public. These issues can be
managedduring the Goal 5 review.
Another concern is that when cultural resources are discovered at a project site it can create
significant delays. This can be addressed by creating a proactive process in conjunction with
local tribes, for protecting cultural resources while not impacting on- goingwork.
72 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 98 of 238 - Exhibit ~ rgT&aRESF R84LU1pUR~~~y"b! rENT
SECTION 2- 11 CULTURAL AND HISTORIC RESOURCES
SeotLov% 2.: 1:1 CkLtkrnL awol KstorLc R. esokrces
POLLC' es
Goal and Policies
Goal I Promote the preservation of designated historic and cultural
resources through education, incentives and voluntary programs.
Policy2.1 1.1 The Historic Landmarks Commission shall take the lead in promoting historic
and cultural resource preservation as defined in DCC 2. 28.
a. Support incentives for private landowners to protect and restore historic
resources.
b. Support the Historic Landmarks Commission to promote educational
programs to inform the public of the values of historic preservation.
c. Support improved training for the Historic Landmarks Commission.
Policy2. 11.2 Coordinate cultural and historic preservation with the Oregon State Historic
Preservation Office.
a. Maintain Deschutes County as a Certified Local Government.
b. Encourageprivate property owners to coordinate with the State Historic
Preservation Office.
Policy2.1 1.3 Encouragethe preservation of lands with significanthistoric or cultural
resources.
a. Develop and maintain a comprehensive list of sites on the National Register
of Historic Places.
b. Review County Code and revise as needed to provide incentives and
adequate regulations to preserve sites listed on the Statewide Goal 5 historic
and cultural inventory.
Policy 2. 11.4 Goal 5 historic inventories, ESEEsand programs are retained and not repealed,
except for the amendment noted in Ordinance 2011- 003.
DEsCHu'rEs COUNTY COM/ REHENSMPLAN - 2011 73
5gyeWA KIEM W% T6f%9Ag j ~SqVMAND HISTORIC RESOURCES
ctiapter 2 T> r~vu. arH R.e ferewces
References
1. Oregon Department of Land Conservation and Development. Goal 3: Agricultural Lands.
Oregon's Statewide PlanningGoals and Guidelines.
2. Oregon. Department of Land Conservation and Development. Goal 4: Forest Lands.
Oregon's Statewide PlanningGoals and Guidelines.
3. Oregon. Department of Land Conservation and Development. Goal 5: Open Spaces,
Scenic and Historic Areas and Natural Resources. Oregon's Statewide PlanningGoals and
Guidelines.
4. Oregon. Department of Land Conservation and Development. Goal 6: Air, Water and
Land Resources Quality. Oregon's Statewide PlanningGoals and Guidelines.
5. Oregon. Department of Land Conservation and Development. Goal 13: Energy. Oregon's
Statewide PlanningGoals and Guidelines.
6. Oregon Task Force on Land Use Planning, Final Report to the 2009 Oregon Legislature,
January2009
7. Oregon Revised Statute 197 and 215
8. Oregon Administrative Rules Chapter 660 particularly:
a. 660- 006 Goal 4 Forest Lands
b. 660- 016 Complyingwith Statewide Goal 5
c. 660- 023 Procedures and Requirements for complying with Goal 5
d. 660- 033 Agricultural Land
9. Deschutes County GeographicInformation System
10. Deschutes County Resource Element
11. Deschutes County Agricultural Resource Lands Project (June 1992)
12. Oregon State UniversityExtension Economic Information Office, Agricultural
Commodity Sales Deschutes County 2008 preliminary Findings
13. U.S. Bureau of Reclamation Water 2025 ChallengeGrant Action Plan. Newton
Consultants. August 7, 2009
14. Long-RangeWater Resources Managementin Central Oregon: BalancingSupply and
Demand in the Deschutes Basin. DWA Final Report. August2006
15. Irrigation District Water Efficiency Cost Analysis and Prioritization. DWA Final Report,
August 2006
16. Growth, Urbanization and Land Use Change: Impacts on Agriculture and Irrigation
Districts in Central Oregon. DWA Final Report, August20062
1
The references listed are provided for the convenience of the public and are not legally adopted into this Plan.
74 DESCHUTEs COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
CHATTER 2 RESOURCE MANAGEMENT REFERENCES
Page 100 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance 2011- 003
17. Instream Flow in the Deschutes Basin: Monitoring, Status and Restoration Needs. DWA
Final Report, August 2006.
18. Reservoir Management. DWA Final Report, August 2006
19. Future Ground Water Demand in the Deschutes Basin. DWA Final Report, August
2006
20. Gannett, M. W., and Lite, K.E., Jr., 2004, Simulation of regionalground-water flow in the
upper Deschutes Basin, Oregon: U.S. GeologicalSurvey Water- Resources Investigations
Report 03- 4195, 84 p.
21. Oregon DEQ, Oregon's TMDL Priorities and Schedule. May 18, 2006
22. Oregon DEQ, TMDL Implementation Plan Guidance - for State and Local Government
DesignatedManagement Agencies. May 2007
23. Jones, Leslie, 2007, Nitrates in La Pine Aquifer and Potential EcologicalResponse of the
Upper Deschutes and Little Deschutes Rivers: Upper Deschutes Watershed Council
Bend, Oregon: 2007,4 p.
24. Amos, Adell, 2008, Freshwater Conservation in the Context of Energyand Climate
Policy: AssessingProgressand IndentifyingChallengesin Oregon and the Western
United States: University of Denver Water Law River, Volume 12, Issue I, Fall 2008.
25. Oregon Department of Environmental Quality Fact Sheet: Working with Oregon
Communities and Businesses to Protect Water, Air and Land and the Health of
Oregonians. DEQ 06- OD-001 updated 1/ 09
26. Ground Water Hydrology of the Upper Deschutes Basin, Oregon Water Resources
Investigations Report 00- 4162, Portland, Oregon, 2001
27. Water Rightsin Oregon, March 2008, Oregon Water Resources Department Internet
Site, http:// www.wrd. state.or. us/OWRD/ PUBS/aguabook. shtml
28. USGS Fact Sheet 2007- 3103, Questions and Answers About the Effects of Septic
Systemson Water Quality in the La Pine Area, Oregon
29. Aquifer-scale controls on the distribution of nitrate and ammonium in ground water
near La Pine, Oregon, USA. Journal of Hydrology (2007) 333, 486- 503
30. Morgan, D.S., Hinkle, S.R., and Weick, R .J., 2007, Evaluation of approaches for managing
nitrate loadingfrom on- site wastewater systems near La Pine, Oregon: U.S. Geological
Survey Scientific Investigations Report 2007- 5237, 66 p.
31. Lite, K. E., Jr., and Gannett, M. W., 2002, Geologicframework of the regional ground-
water flow system in the upper Deschutes Basin, Oregon: U.S. GeologicalSurvey
Water- Resources Investigations Report02-4015, p. 44.
32. Hinkle, S.R., Morgan, D.S., Orzol, L.L., and Polette, D .J., Ground water redox zonation
near La Pine, Oregon- Relation to River Position within the Aquifer- Riparian Zone
Continuum: U.S. Geological Survey Scientific Investigations Report 2007- 5239, 30 p.
z
The references listed are provided for the convenience of the public and are not legally adopted into this Plan.
DESCHUTES Coupm Comnw* Nsivs RM - 2011 75
CHA/ ret 2 RESOURCE MANAGEMENT REFERENCES
Page 101 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance 2011- 003
33. U.S. Bureau of Reclamation Water 2025 ChallengeGrant Action Plan. Newton
Consultants. August 7, 2009
34. Oregon Department of Environmental Quality - Water Quality Program:
http:// www.orelon. gov/DEQfWQ/
35. USGS Oregon Water Science Center: http:// or.water. usgs.gov/
36. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency - Introduction to the Clean Water Act:
http:// www.epa. crov/watertrain
37. National Marine Fisheries Service, Northwest and Southwest Regions, A Citizen's Guide
to the 4(d) Rule For Threatened and EndangeredSalmon and Steelhead on the West
Coast. 2000
38. ODFW, Deschutes River Conservancy, Upper Deschutes Watershed Council, Upper
Deschutes River Restoration Strategy. October 2008
39. An Interagency Working Group Jennifer O' Reilly (USFW), Glenn Ardt ( ODFW), Jan
Hanf ( BLM), Rick Demmer ( BLM), Lauri Turner ( USFS), Updated Wildlife Information
and Recommendations for the Deschutes County ComprehensivePlan Update: July 6,
2009
40. Deschutes County/City of Bend River Study Prepared by River Task Force Committee,
April 1986
41. Deschutes County PlanningDivision River Study Staff Report. May 21, 1986
42. BLM, Proposed Upper Deschutes Resource Management Plan and Final Environmental
ImpactStatement, Volume 1 - Executive summary and Chapter I, 2, and 3 and Volume 3
ProposedUpper Deschutes Resource Managementplan and Appendices
43. BLM, Proposed Upper Deschutes Resource Management Plan and Final Environmental
ImpactStatement, Volume 3 - Ordinance No. 92- 040. Updateto Deschutes County
ComprehensivePlan and implementingordinances, for fish and wildlife resources to
assure compliance with Statewide Land Use PlanningGoals
44. Ordinance No. 92- 041. Updateto Deschutes County Comprehensive Plan to review
and implementingordinances for fish and wildlife resources to assure continuing
compliancewith Statewide Land Use PlanningGoals.
45. Ordinance No. 92- 042. Update to Deschutes County ComprehensivePlan to review
and implementingordinances for fish and wildlife resources to assure continuing
compliance with Statewide Land Use PlanningGoals.
46. Ordinance No. 92- 045. Update to Deschutes County Comprehensive Plan to review
and implementing ordinances for Goal 5 resources to assure continuing compliance with
Statewide Land Use PlanningGoals.
47. Ordinance No. 92- 046. Update to Deschutes County Comprehensive Plan to review
and implementing ordinances for Goal 5 resources to assure continuing compliance with
Statewide Land Use PlanningGoals.
3
The references listed are provided for the convenience of the public and are not legally adopted into this Plan.
76 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVEPLAN - 2011
CHANTER 2 RESOURCEMANAGEMENT REFERENCES
Page 102 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance 2011- 003
48. ICF Jones & Stokes, Central Oregon ESA Risk Evaluation: Deschutes County Findings
and Recommendations. September 20094
49. Oregon. Department of Fish and Wildlife. Riparian Tax Incentive Program. ORS
308A. 350-308A. 383.
50. Oregon. Department of Fish and Wildlife. ComprehensiveWildlife Conservation
StrategyOverview. 2004.
51. USDA, USFS, Deschutes National Forest: Upper Deschutes Wild and Scenic River and
State Scenic Waterway ComprehensiveManagementPlan. July 1996
52. Deschutes County Riparian Area Cumulative Effects Analysesfor Land Use Actions, July
1986- December 1992. Deschutes County PlanningDivision. September13, 1994
53. Fishing, Hunting, Wildlife Viewingand Shell fishingRecreation in Oregon: 2008 Trip
Characteristics and County ExpenditureEstimates. Dean Runyan and Associates, May
2009
54. Oregon Conservation Strategy. Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife, February
2006.
55. Geothermal Element for the Deschutes County Comprehensive Plan & Zoning
Ordinance Preparedby Eliot Allen & Associates, January 30, 1985
56. Deschutes County Ordinances 1985-001 and 1986-019
57. Oregon Department of Energy: A Model Ordinance for EnergyProjects. Version 2: July
2005
58. A SpecialReport of the Oregon Forest Resources Institute: Woody Biomass Energy - A
Renewable Resource to Help Meet Oregon's EnergyNeeds. 2007
59. Deschutes National Forest Geothermal website:
http:// www.fs. f*d. us/r6/ c*ntraloregon/ geology/info/ geothermal.shtmi
60. Oregon Office of Energy: http:// www.oregon. Sov/ENERGY/
61. Oregon Solar EnergyHome Page: http:// www.orgon. Sov/ENERGY/ RENEW/Solar/
62. U.S. Department of energy Wind Power America Program:
http:// www.windpoweringamerica.gov/
63. U.S. Department of the Interior and U.S. Department of Agriculture, Geothermal
EnergyResources and Policies of the Western United State. July2009
64. Oregon Health Division and Department of Environmental Quality: Wellhead
Protection Fact Sheet, July 1994
65. Oregon. Department of Environmental Quality, Air Quality Division. Finding Solutions
to Noise Problems. 2003.
66. Oregon Dark Skies. The Rose City Astronomers. 2003.
4
The references listed are provided for the convenience of the public and are not legally adopted into this Plan.
DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011 77
CHAPTER 2 RESOURCE MANAGEMENT REFERENCES
Page 103 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance 2011- 003
67. Light Pollution. Campaignfor Dark Skies. A joint commission of the British
Astronomical Association and the International Dark-Sky Association. 2004
s
68. Oregon. Department of Environmental Quality, Land Quality Division. Land Quality
Programs, Resources, and Databases.
69. Oregon. Department of Human Services, Health Services Groundwater Coordinator.
Oregon's Drinking Water Protection Program.
70. Oregon. Department of Land Conservation and Development. Summary of Oregon's
Statewide Goal 5 Process Relating to Aggregate Resources. 2003.
71. Oregon. Department of Land Conservation and Development. Rule Amendments
RegardingSignificantMineral and AggregateResources. 2004.
72. Oregon State University. The Oregon Natural Heritage Program. Oregon State Register
of Natural Heritage Resources. 2002.
5
The references listed are provided for the convenience of the public and are not legally adopted into this Plan.
78 McHUTEs COUNTY COMPREHENSIVERAN - 2011
CHAPTER 2 RESOURCE MANAGEMENT REFERENCES
Page 104 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance 2011- 003
i
ce
M V e vu
LI
in COMMC- Ft6NSIVE
COYP( AN ltMATC-
Page 105 of 238 - Exhibit i3 to Ordinance 20119-003
SCOUOw 3. 1 101trool "ati ova
Back=round
People move to rural communities in Deschutes County for many different reasons, but the
high quality of life was mentioned repeatedly in community meetings. Residents noted that rural
living provides peace and quiet, room to breathe and a connection with the land, the natural
world and a caring community. Retainingwhat people love about rural living while allowing
growth can be challenging. This chapter looks at the functional and quality of life aspects of
rural living and complements Chapter 2, Resource Managementthat discusses resource lands.
This chapter is divided into eight sections. Seven Statewide PlanningGoals applyto this chapter,
alongwith associated Oregon Administrative Rules ( OARS) that provide more specific guidance
on implementingthe Goals. The first four sections are Rural Development, Rural Housing,
Rural Economy and Natural Hazards.
State regulationsfor housing can be found in Statewide PlanningGoal 10, Housingand OAR
660- 008. Economic growth is considered in Statewide Goal 9, Economyof the State and OAR
660. 009. Both Goal 10 and Goal 9 are intended to apply primarily inside Urban Growth
Boundaries. Statewide Goal 2, Land Use and Goal 14, Urbanization, and OARs 660- 004 and
660. 014 address specific aspects of urban development on rural lands. Statewide Goal 7, Areas
Subjectto Natural Disasters and Hazards provides guidance on how to effectivelyprotect
development from natural hazards.
The next two sections are Public Facilities and Services and Transportation. These areas are
addressed in Statewide Goal 11, Public Facilities and Services and Statewide Goal 12,
Transportation and associated OAR 660- 011 and 660- 012. The next two sections of this
chapter are Rural Recreation and Destination Resorts. Statewide PlanningGoal 8, Recreational
Needs and Oregon Revised Statue 197. 435-467 regulate these chapters. The final section
discusses plansor policiesto address site specificrural development issues.
Purpose
The purpose of the Rural Growth Managementchapteris to coordinate with other chaptersof
this Plan to maintain the quality of life enjoyed by rural residents. This chapter is organized as
follows:
Rural Development (Section 3.2)
Rural Housing (Section 3.3)
Rural Economy (Section 3.4)
Natural Hazards ( Section 3.5)
Public Facilities and Services ( Section 3.6)
Transportation SystemPlan (Section 3.7)
Rural Recreation ( Section 3.8)
Destination Resorts ( Section 3.9)
Area specific Plans and Policies ( Section 110)
2 , DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 106 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordina cMl'~C@i GRowTH MANAGEMENT SECTION 3.1 INTRODUCTION
sect' ovL 3. 2 R. u.raL DeveLopmevut
Back=round
Oregon's land use system primarily directs growth into urban growth boundaries, to preserve
rural lands for farming and forestry. Recent growth in the unincorporated areas of the County
consists predominantly of residential development on lots existing prior to the adoption in the
1970s of the statewide planning program and Deschutes County's Comprehensive Plan. New
commercial, industrial or residential uses on rural lands are regulatedby Statewide Planning
Goals for farms, forests, urbanization and public facilities. State law restricts most rural
commercial and industrial uses, so no significantgrowth in those areas is anticipated.
Yet many people choose to live in rural areas. To understand demand, in 1979 the County
noted that there were over 17, 000 platted, but undevelopedlots and concluded that there was
ampleroom for growth. In 2004 the County adoptedDeschutes County Coordinated
PopulationForecast 2000- 2025 ( see Section 4.2). As part of the populationforecast, the
County used GeographicInformation Systems (GIS) to analyzethe potential for new
development based on existing and potential dwellings. That analysisshowed the County could
serve anticipated rural population with existing lots. However, it was noted that the number of
growth- dependentvariables over potential new development made the analysis inexact.
Growth Potential
As of 2010, the strong population growth of the last decade in Deschutes County was thought
to have leveled off due to the economic recession. Decides flatter growth patterns, changesto
State regulations opened up additional opportunities for new rural development. The following
list identifies generalcategories for creating new residential lots, all of which are subject to
specific State regulations.
New lots can be created in destination resorts
Some farm lands can be subdivided to permit one or two ' non- farm' parcels
New lots can be created based on the property rightslegislationknown as Measure 37
and Measure 49
New lots can be created through the addition of sewer systems
New lots can be created in Unincorporated Communities ( see Chapter 4)
2009 legislationpermits a new analysisof agricultural designated lands
Existinglargeforest or rural residential lots can be subdivided
Exceptionscan be grantedfrom the Statewide PlanningGoals
Some farm lands with poor soils that are adjacent to rural residential uses can be rezoned
as rural residential
Some farm lands with poor soils can be rezoned into a new agricultural category with a
smaller acreage requirement
It is difficult to estimate how many additional lots could be created through these categories.
Most of these possibilities are extremely site- specificrequiring an analysisof each property. In
community meetings for the 2008- 2011 Plan update, the primary concerns raised over new
growth were the impacts of destination resorts and non- farm dwellings.
DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVEPLAN - 2011 3
Ply"'er "" ging8 W iOEVfQIITae f 1= DEVELOPMENT
The wildcard in rural housing development is destination resorts ( see Section 3.9). These
developments are permitted on rural lands without taking a goal exception and are intended to
attract tourists. State Statute on resorts allows them to have two houses for every overnight
lodgingunit, so the potential exists to add a considerable amount of new housing to rural
Deschutes County. The challengeis that it is hard to analyzeimpacts from resort housing
because it is not clear whether the housingis being used for full- time residences or second
homes. Additionally, some of the second homes may become full- time residences when
property owners retire.
Non- farm refers to allowing one or two new parcels of up to five acres to split off of farm
parcels as long as the remaining farm parcel retains the required acreage. This provides
flexibility by allowingthe creation of new rural housingwhile retaining the basic agricultural
character of the area.
Property rights Measure 37 could potentially have added a sizeable number of new lots, but as
modified by Measure 49 the number is down considerably and at this point nearly impossibleto
track.
Increased growth potential could follow the addition of sewer systems in south Deschutes
County or in existing unincorporated communities, which could lead to smaller lot sizes. New
lots can also be created in Unincorporated Communities, but only Tumalo and Terrebonne
have the potential to add a substantial number of new lots. However, residents in those
communities have expressedan interest in keeping their rural character ( see Sections 4.S and
4.6).
Another opportunity for rural growth is found in Section 2.2 of this Plan, within a policy to
initiate a study evaluating existing agricultural lands to determine which lands are unsuitable for
farming and could be available for residential development.
Other potential categories for new residential lots are not anticipated to add substantial new
development.
4 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 108 of 238 - Exhibit B to 0rSPm31wftywrH
MANAGEMENT SECTION 3.2 RURAL DmLowaw
SeGt'W* v%. 3. 3 Ru. rCI L Ftov-sLvt,0
Background
Housingis a basic need that provides not just shelter, but connection to a wider community. A
variety of housingtypes and price points ensures options for people at different life stages and
needs. Oregon's statewide planningprogram directs cities to retain an adequate amount of land
to accommodate residential growth. Generally counties are directed to protect farms, forests
and other rural resources like wildlife while limiting new rural development. This section of the
Plan looks specifically at housing on existing and potential new parcelsand how the County can
support a diverse and affordable housingsupply.
Housinginside urban growth boundaries is addressed in Statewide PlanningGoal 10, Housing
and OAR 660- 008. Statewide Goal 2, Land Use and Goal 14, Urbanization both have sections
that address rural housing, supplementedby OAR 660- 004 and 660. 014. These rules refine
how new rural residential lots can be crated. The Deschutes County housing policies provide
the framework for residential development. These policiesassure that services, such as water,
sewage disposaland access, are adequate for residential development. The policies further
delineate the role of the County in facilitatingthe availability of an affordable and qualityhousing
stock within both urban and rural communities.
Rural Residential Exception Areas
In Deschutes County most rural lands are designated for farms, forests or other resources and
protected as described in the Resource Managementchapter of this Plan. The majority of the
land not recognizedas resource lands or Unincorporated Community is designatedRural
Residential Exception Area. The County had to follow a process under Statewide Goal 2 to
explain why these lands did not warrant farm or forest zoning. The major determinant was that
many of these lands were plattedfor residential use before Statewide Planningwas adopted.
In 1979 the County assessed that there were over 17, 000 undevelopedRural Residential
ExceptionArea parcels, enough to meet anticipated demand for new rural housing. As of 2010
any new Rural Residential ExceptionAreas need to be justified through takingexceptions to
farm, forest, publicfacilities and services and urbanization regulations, and follow guidelinesset
out in the OAR.
Rural Residential Exception Areas 2069
Source: CountyGS data
71, 000 acres of Rural Residential ExceptionArea ( including right- of-way)
64, 000 acres of Rural Residential ExceptionArea ( excluding right- of-way)
24, 750 Rural Residential ExceptionArea lots
a
18, 100 Rural Residential ExceptionArea lots that are developed
Future of Rural Housing in Deschutes County
In looking rural housing growth, it is important to find the balance between protecting rural
values and protecting property rights. In community meetings some people expressed concern
over the level of new development that has been allowed while others highlighted the
DucwuTEsCouu1NYC~ OhinHt,wEEpNssmhNm-E201
3 (~11
Pa ~ T [SSR tXtll~ fZ is iOE fC111ia 8 Nl fftHOUSING
restrictions on their property that do not permit it. Too much developmentcan lead to the
destruction of the qualitiesthat bringpeopleto Deschutes County, while too many restrictions
keep out people who would choose a rural lifestyle.
HousingLegality, Public Health and Safety
One issue meriting attention is the need to be sure housingis legallydeveloped. A house built
without proper land use permits may not meet required setbacks or other regulations, causing
legaldisputes between neighbors. A house built without proper buildingpermits could be
constructed shoddily, causingsafetyissues. Land use and buildingpermit requirements
therefore are intended to safeguardthe rights of property owners and neighbors.
Historically, there have been problemsin the County with substandard housing. Over the years
substandard housinghas become less of an issue. However, there are still areas where
development has occurred without land use or buildingpermits, leadingto numerous code
complaints. An area of south County, known as Section 36, has been identified as one place that
the County could work closely with local residents to address health and safetyissues.
Another health and safety issue that came up in public meetings is the need to regulate large
animals on residential lots. The idea is to control odors and flies that can accumulate and
impact neighbors. Research on how largeanimals are regulatedin other counties would provide
some direction on this issue.
HousingDiversity
A challenge for the County given rural housingrestrictions is how to support a diversity of
housing to meet the needs of the community, while retaining the rural character important to
residents. Deschutes County requires a 10 acre minimum lot size for new rural residential lots
in order to protect the rural quality of life and its resources. Yet, the 10 acre minimum raises
the cost of rural housingand may limit the rural lifestyle to households at the upper end of the
income spectrum. Additionally much of the new rural housing being built is located in high-end
destination resorts. This slant towards high priced rural housing is mitigated somewhat by the
thousands of small lots that were platted before land use laws were enacted. These smaller lots
provide an opportunity for less expensive housing.
One way the County can address the need for housingoptions is to promote the idea of
housingalternatives such as co- housingor accessory dwellingunits. Currently these alternatives
are not permitted by State regulationsthat protect rural lands. Co- housinginvolves creating a
community through clustered housing. Accessorydwellingunits, sometimes known as granny
flats, are small units accessory to the main housing. Regulatedcorrectly, housingalternatives
could provide flexibility in rural housing. The first step in permitting housing variety is to initiate
a discussion with the State on how and where these types of housing would be appropriate.
Another way to support a diversity of housingis to work closely with agencies and jurisdictions
that promote it. The public corporation responsible for promoting affordable housing initiatives
in Deschutes, Jeffersonand Crook Counties is the Central Oregon RegionalHousingAuthority,
also known as HousingWorks. Organizedunder the Oregon Housing Authority Law ( ORS
456), this agency provides affordable housingservices to low income households. They also
engage in public/ private partnershipsto provide and manage affordable housing. Cities are also
involved in providing a diversity of housing. Promotinga variety of housing choices and mix of
6
NA~•
DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 110 of 238 - Exhibit B to OrdinaCTlCe- FMRLW GROWTH MANAGEMENT SECTION 3.3 RURAL HOusiNG
price points can be achieved through cooperating with Housing Works and local cities, the
donation of County property, or other means.
D~E{SCHUTESCOUN,V Cpopr~~n~U, nMMSIVPLAN -
Fgre LSSRtXf11gR - l7~ Ql~ I fftHou&NG
sect' LOv113. 3 R. u.rUIL H- ou.s~ wg POLLOes
Goals and Policies
Goal I Maintain the rural character and safety of housing in unincorporated
Deschutes County.
Policy3. 3.1 The minimum parcel size for new rural residential parcels shall be 10 acres.
Policy 3. 3.2 Incorporate annual farm and forest housing reports into a wider system for
tracking the cumulative impacts of rural housingdevelopment.
Policy 3. 3.3 Address housing health and safety issues raised by the public, such as:
a. The number of largeanimals that should be permitted on rural residential
parcels; or
b. The properties south of La Pine, in Township 22S, Range IOE, Section 36,
many of which are not in compliance with planningand buildingcodes.
Policy3. 3.4 Encouragenew subdivisions to incorporate alternative development patterns,
such as cluster development, that mitigate community and environmental
impacts.
Policy 3. 3.5 Maintain the rural character of the County while ensuring a diversity of housing
opportunities, including initiating discussions to amend State Statute and/or
Oregon Administrative Rules to permit accessory dwellingunits in Exclusive
Farm Use, Forest and Rural Residential zones.
Goal 2 Support agencies and non- profits that provide affordable housing.
Policy3. 3.6 Support Central Oregon RegionalHousingAuthority and other stakeholders to
meet the housingneeds of all Deschutes County residents.
a. Assist as needed in coordinating and implementing housing assistance
programs.
b. Support efforts to provide affordable and workforce housing in urban growth
boundaries and unincorporated communities.
Policy 3. 3.7 Utilize block grants and other fundingto assist in providingand maintaining low
and moderate income housing.
DESCHUTES
COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 112 of 238 - Exhibit B to OrdinacY I =8 GROWTH MANAGEMENT SicnoN 3.3 RuptAL HousiNG
SeCUOVI, 3. 4 R. u.raL F00w0MLj
Background
Economic developmentis critically important to maintaining qualityof life. When the Statewide
Planningsystem was initiated, farmingand forestry were strongly protected because they were
the State's primary economic drivers. Statewide PlanningGoal 9, Economic Developmentand
Oregon Administrative Rule ( OAR) 660- 009 apply to areas inside urban growth boundaries and
are intended to ensure an adequateland supplyfor business and employmentgrowth. The Rule
defines the preparation of Economic Opportunity Analyses (EOA) to identify and promote a
diverse economy.
Rural Economy 2008- 2009
Source: Economic Developmentfor Central Oregonwebsite
The top three economic sectors in 2009 were: retail trade, leisure and hospitality,
educational and health services
Median income for a familyof four in 2008 was $ 63, 500
A 2009 list of top private employersshows Sunriver at # 3 and EagleCrest at # 12 and
Black Butte Ranch at # 15
2009 unemployment ranged from approximately 13%-l6% - up from S. 3% in 2000
Source: Fishing, Hunting; Wildlife Viewingand Shell fishingin Oregon„ 2008, May 2009, Preparedfor
the OregonDepartment of Fish and Wildlife by Dean RunyanAssociates
A total of $78 million was spent in Deschutes County in 2008 on fishing, huntingand
wildlife viewing
Source: OregonState UniversityExtension OregonAgriculturalInformation Network, Deschutes County
AgriculturalCommoditySoles for 2008 and 2009
Over $ 26 million in crop and livestock sales in 2008 ( revised estimate)
Over $ 19 million in crop and livestock sales in 2009 ( preliminary estimate)
Source: CountyQS
There are S developed Rural Commercial lots
There are 4 developedRural Industrial lots
Economic Trends
Deschutes County's economy was initially built around farmingand logging. As those sectors
declined, recreation and tourism increased as people were drawn to the beauty and
opportunities to recreate on public lands. The high quality of life became a draw for employers
and employees alike. Until recently, the buildingsector boomed as new housingwas built to
meet both increased housing demand and the real estate speculation that followed. Housing
prices rose so highthat workforce housing became a limiting factor in economic growth. The
period of strong growth ended with the national recession that began in late 2007, leading to
fallinghousingprices and rising unemployment.
DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011 9
CHA TER 3 RURAL GROWTH MANAGEMENT SECTION 3.4 RURAL ECONOMY
Page 113 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance 2011- 003
A partner for the County in promoting a healthyeconomy is Economic Developmentfor
Central Oregon (EDCO). This private non- profit organization is dedicated to diversifyingthe
tri- countyregionaleconomy by attracting new investment and jobs. This organization also
tracks the local economy. As noted above, statewide land use goals and rules direct growth
primarily in urban areas. Still, there are economic opportunities that can be supported by the
County.
Farmingand forestry and related businesses
Economic opportunities in these sectors are discussed in the Agriculture and Forest
sections of this Plan.
Recreation and tourism
These sectors include revenue from hunting, fishingand wildlife viewing that are discussed
in the Wildlife section of this Plan. Also included here are Mt Bachelor ski resort and
other area resorts. This sector is anticipated to continue growing.
UnincorporatedCommunities
New commercial and industrial uses are permitted in unincorporatedcommunities. These
uses are limited in size. See Chapter 4 for more information.
Home- based businesses
Although not a major economic player, for many rural residents the opportunity to run a
small business out of their home provides extra income. Home businesses are regulated
tightly on agricultural land by the state, and by the county through the home occupation
code.
Green Employment
New initiatives for green energy take advantageof the local abundance of resources. See
the Energysection of this Plan.
Bend Airport
The Bend Airport is owned and managedby the City of bond as a municipal airport with
supporting aviation associated businesses. Aviation industries are also a major focus of
EDCO. As of 2010 the City of Bend and Deschutes County are working to create a new
master planfor the area that will promote future aviation related business while
protecting the nearby rural residences from aviation- related impacts.
Coordination
The County can support and coordinate with agencies, organizations and juridictions in
promoting economic development such as coordinating on the RegionalEconomic
Opportunity Analysisfor Un- Met Large-Lot Industrial Sites due to be completed in 2011.
The County can support farmingas a contributor of the economy by promoting a diverse,
sustainable, revenue- generatingagricultural sector, including emerging agricultural
conditions and markets.
Environment
Deschutes County's quality of life is increasinglyrecognized as an important factor in
economic development and can be viewed as a strategic resource to be managedfor its
long-term contributions as a tourist destination, to employeeretention, and locational
decisions for industrial recruitment.
10 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 114 of 238 - Exhibit B to OrdinSc l IftGRowTH
MANAGEMENT SECTION 3.4 RuikAL EcoNomy
Rural Commercial and Rural Industrial
In Deschutes County there are a handful of properties zoned Rural Commercial and Rural
Industrial. These designationsrecognize uses that predated State land use laws. New
commercial or industrial sites are controlled by State regulation and additional development is
anticipated to be minimal and only for specificsites, such as around the Bend Airport
Rural Commercial
The Rural Commercial plandesignation appliesto specific exception areas located outside
unincorporatedcommunities and urban growth boundaries. The rural commercial uses and
services in these areas are limited in size and scope to those that are less intensive than uses
allowed in UnincorporatedCommunities. The uses and densities are limited by the zoning,
thereby maintaining rural integrity.
The Rural Commercial designationappliesto the following acknowledgedexception areas:
Deschutes ) unction
Deschutes River Woods Store
Pine Forest
Rosland
SpringRiver
As a part of State required Periodic Review, a Rural Commercial designationwas applied to
Deschutes Junction, Deschutes River Woods Store and Spring River. These areas had
previously been designatedRural Service Centers, but a new Unincorporated Communities
Rule ( OAR 660.022) defined " rural service centers" in such a way that these areas no longer
matched the criteria.
The Rural Commercial plan designation and zoning brings each of these three areas into
compliance with state rules by adoptingzoning to ensure that they remain rural and that the
uses allowed are less intensive than those allowed in unincorporated communities as defined in
OAR 660- 022.
The County recently applieda new Rural Commercial plan designation to Rosland ( 2002) and
Pine Forest ( 2007) commercial centers which historicallywere committed to commercial uses
prior to the adoption of zoning regulations.
Rural Commercial DesignatedAreas
The Deschutes Junction Rural Commercial boundary includes 1. 77 acres, bounded by Tumalo
Road on the South, Highway 97 on the East, with the remainder surrounded by Agricultural
EFU) and Rural Residential ( MUA-10) lands.
The Deschutes River Woods Store Rural Commercial boundary includes 4. 99 acres bounded
by Baker Road on the North, Highway97 on the East, railroad tracks and CheyenneRoad on
the West and MorningstarChristian School on the South. The surroundingland is zoned Rural
Residential ( RR-10). The Deschutes River Woods residential subdivision is adjacent to this
property.
DtscHms COUNTY Comntwmsm IRAN - 2011
CHArm 3 RURAL GROWTH MANAGEMENT SECTION 3.4 RURAL ECONOMY
Page 115 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance 2011- 003
The Pine Forest Rural Commercial boundary includes approximately2.0 acres bounded by Pine
Forest Drive and BurgessRoad. The remainder is surrounded by exceptions land zoned RR. 10.
The Rosland Rural Commercial boundaryincludes approximately4.S acres near the
intersection of Burgess and River Pine Roads. The remainder is surrounded by exceptions land
zoned RR-10.
The SpringRiver Rural Commercial boundary includes 9. 16 acres bounded by SpringRiver
Road on the North, Lunar Drive on the East and additional commercial and residential uses on
the South and West. The surroundingland is zoned Rural Residential ( RR-10).
Rural Industrial
The Rural Industrial plan designation appliesto specific exception areas located outside
unincorporated communities and urban growth boundaries. The Rural Industrial plan
designation and zoning bringsthese areas into compliance with state rules by adoptingzoning
to ensure that they remain rural and that the uses allowed are less intensive than those allowed
in unincorporated communities as defined in OAR 660- 022.
The Rural Industrial designationapplies to the following acknowledgedexception areas.
Redmond Military
Deschutes junction
Bend Auto Recyclers
Wickiup junction
Rural Industrial DesignatedAreas
The Redmond Military site consists of tax lot IS 13000000116 and is 3S.42 acres, bounded by
the Redmond Urban Growth Boundary to the west and agricultural lands ( EFU) surrounding
the remainder of the property.
The Deschutes junction site consists of the following tax lots: 1612260000107 ( 9. 05 acres),
161260000106 ( 4.33 acres), 161226C000102 ( 1. 41 acres), 161226C000114 ( 2. 50 acres),
portions 1612260000300 ( 12.9 acres). 161226C000301 ( 8. 93 acres), 161226AO00203 ( I. S
acres) and those portions of 161226A0001 I I located west of the BurlingtonNorthern- Santa Fe
railroad tracks ( 16.45 acres). Generally, the Deschutes junction site is bordered on the west by
Highway97, on the east by the BurlingtonNorthern Railroad, on the north by Nichols Market
Road ( except for a portion of 1612226AOOO I 11), and on the south by EFU- toned property
owned by the City of Bend.
Bend Auto Recyclersconsists of tax lot 1712030000111 and is 13.41 acres, bounded by
Highway 97 to the west, and Rural Residential ( MUA-10) lands to east, north and south.
Wickiup junction consists of tax lot 2110360000104 and is 12.67 acres, bounded by Rosland
Road on the southwest with forest lands surrounding the remainder of the property.
Future of Deschutes County Economy
A key to economic growth in Deschutes County is to recognize and protect the natural
resources that contribute to the quality of life that draws both employers and employees as
well as tourists to the area. A 2010 report on Deschutes County's economy by Headwaters
Economics and Economic Development for Central Oregon outlined a number of
12 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 116 of 238 - Exhibit B to OrdinWAe-ZUI Ift0kowTN
MANAGEMENT SECTION 3.4 RuRAL ECONOMY
recommendations to increase economic diversityand resiliency. Areas where the County can
consider focusingits attention are: promoting housingdiversity, local amenities, better
transportation access and highereducation. Accordingto the report, public incentives are also
helpful.
Given the State emphasison economic developmentinside cities, the County's primary role is
to cooperate with them and EDCO. Coordinatingwith cities, agencies and organizations that
are actively promoting economic development can be an effective use of resources. As an
example of local partnering, in 2010 the County initiated a Regional Economic Opportunity
Analysisto identify the need for large-lot industrial sites.
From a rural perspective, working with the agriculture and forest sectors to encourage new
uses as discussed in those sections of this Plan is another option. Others are supporting
sustainable recreation, tourism and commercial alternative energy projects. Finally, home based
businesses that minimize impacts on rural neighbors can also be encouraged.
McHums COUNTY COMntEMENVA PLAN- 201 1
CHAPTFA 3 RURAL GROWTH MANAGEMENT SECTION 3.4 Ru1LAL ECONOMY
Page 117 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance 2011- 003
sect' ovL 3. 4 Ru. Yat C- coyLommPOLLC' es
Goal and Policies
Goal I Maintain a stable and sustainable rural economy, compatible with
rural lifestyles and a healthy environment.
Policy3. 4.1 Promote rural economic initiatives, includinghome- based businesses, that
maintain the integrity of the rural character and natural environment.
a. Review land use regulationsto identifylegaland appropriate rural economic
development opportunities.
Policy 3. 4.2 Work with stakeholders to promote new recreational and tourist initiatives that
maintain the integrity of the natural environment.
Policy 3. 4.3 Supporta regionalapproach to economic development in concert with
Economic Developmentfor Central Oregon or similar organizations.
Policy 3. 4.4 Supportregionaleducational facilities and workforce training programs.
Policy3. 4.5 Supportrenewable energy generation as an important economic development
initiative.
Policy3. 4.6 Supportand participate in master planningfor airports in Deschutes County.
Policy 3. 4.7 Within the parameters of State land use regulations, permit limited local serving
commercial uses in higher-densityrural communities.
Lands Designatedand Zoned Rural Commercial
Policy 3. 4.8 Updatethe policiesfor lands designated Rural Commercial as needed.
Policy 3. 4.9 Rural Commercial designated lands located outside of urban growth boundaries
shall allow uses less intense than those allowed in unincorporated communities
as defined by Oregon Administrative Rule 660-22 or its successor.
Policy3.4. 10 Rural Commercial zoning shall be appliedto Deschutes Junction, Deschutes
River Woods Store, Pine Forest, Rosland and SpringRiver.
Policy3. 4.11 In SpringRiver there shall be a Limited Use CombiningZone.
Policy3. 4.12 County ComprehensivePlan policies and land use regulationsshall ensure that
new uses authorized on Rural Commercial designated lands do not adversely
affect agriculturaland forest uses in the surrounding areas.
Policy3. 4.13 Zoning in the area shall ensure that the uses allowed are rural as required by
Goal 14, Urbanization, and less intensive than those allowed for unincorporated
communities as defined in OAR 660-22. New commercial uses shall be limited to
those that are intended to serve the surroundingrural area or the travel needs
of people passingthrough the area.
Policy 3. 4.14 New commercial uses shall be limited in size to 2, 500square feet or if for an
agricultural or forest related use, 3, 500square feet.
14 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 118 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordin~d~ ~ tGROWrw
MANAGimiw SEcnoN 3.4 RURAL ECONOMY
Policy 3.4. 15 A lawful use existing on or before November 5, 2002 that is not otherwise
allowed in a Rural Commercial zone, may continue to exist subject to the
county's nonconforminguse regulations.
Policy 3. 4.16 An existing lawful use may expand up to 25 percent of the total floor area
existing on November 5, 2002.
Policy 3. 4.17 The Rural Commercial zoning regulations shall allow a mixed use of residential
or rural commercial uses.
Policy 3.4. 18 Residential and commercial uses shall be served by DEQ approved on- site
sewage disposalsystems.
Policy3. 4.19 Residential and commercial uses shall be served by on- site wells or public water
systems.
Policy 3. 4.20 Community sewer systems, motels, hotels and industrial uses shall not be
allowed.
Policy3. 4.21 Recreational vehicle or trailer parks and other uses catering to travelers shall be
permitted.
Lands Designatedand Zoned Rural Industrial
Policy3. 4.22 Updatethe policies for lands designatedRural Industrial as needed.
Policy3. 4.23 To assure that urban uses are not permitted on rural industrial lands, land use
regulationsin the Rural Industrial zones shall ensure that the uses allowed are
less intensive than those allowed for unincorporated communities in OAR 660-
22 or any successor.
Policy3. 4.24 Limited Use Combiningzones shall be applied to the Redmond Military (Tax lot
1513000000116), Deschutes Junction (Tax lot 161226C000301, Tax lot
1612260000300, Tax lot 16122600001 I I and Tax lot 161226A000203) and
Wickiup Junction (fax lot 2110360000104) to ensure permitted uses are
compatible with surrounding farm and forest lands.
Policy3. 4.25 To ensure that the uses in Rural Industrial zone on tax lot I & 12. 26C-301, as
described in Exhibit " C" and depicted on Exhibit " D" attached to Ordinance
2009-007 and incorporated by reference herein, are limited in nature and scope,
the Rural Industrial zoning on that site shall be subject to a Limited Use
Combining Zone which will limit the uses to storage, crushing, processing, sale
and distribution of minerals.
Policy 3. 4.26 To ensure that the uses in the Rural Industrial Zone on Tax Lot 300 on
Assessor's Map 16- 12-26C- 300 and Tax Lot 203 on Assessor's Map 16- 12-26A-
300 and portions of Tax Lot I I I on Assessor's Map 16. 12-26C- I I I as described
in Exhibit ' D' and depictedin Exhibit ' E' attached to Ordinance 2010-030 and
incorporated by reference herein, are limited in nature and scope, the Rural
Industrial zoning on the subject parcel shall be subject to a Limited Use
CombiningZone, which will limit the uses to storage, crushing, processing, sale
and distribution of minerals, subject to conditional use and site plan approval.
DESGNuTEs COUNTY COMPIUMENSRVE MN - 2011
CHATTER 3 RURAL GROWTH MANAGEMENT SECTION 3.4 RURAL ECONOMY
IS
Page 119 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance 2011- 003
Policy3. 4.27 Land use regulations shall ensure that new uses authorized within the Rural
Industrial sites do not adversely affect agricultural and forest uses in the
surroundingarea.
Policy 3. 4.28 New industrial uses shall be limited in size to a maximum floor area of 7, 500
square feet per use within a building, except for the primary processing of raw
materials produced in rural areas, for which there is no floor area per use
limitation.
Policy3. 4.29 A lawfullyestablished use that existed on or before February2, 2003 not
otherwise allowed in a Rural Industrial zone may continue to exist subject to the
county's non- conforminguse regulations.
Policy3. 4.30 A lawfullyestablished use that existed on or before FebruaryZ 2003 may be
expanded to occupy a maximum of 10, 000 square feet of floor area or an
additional 25 percent of the floor area currently occupied by the existing use,
whichever is greater.
Policy3. 4.31 Residential and industrial uses shall be served by DEQ approved on- site sewage
disposal systems.
Policy 3. 4.32 Residential and industrial uses shall be served by on- site wells or public water
systems.
Policy3. 4.33 Community sewer systems shall not be allowed in Rural Industrial zones.
Policy3. 4.34 A 2009 exception (Ordinance 2009-007) included an irrevocably committed
exception to Goal 3 and a reasons exception to Goal 14 to allow rural industrial
use with a Limited Use CombiningZone for storage, crushing, processing, sale
and distribution of minerals.
Policy3. 4.35 A 2010 exception (Ordinance 2010-030) took a reasons exception to Goal 14
with a Limited Use CombingZone for storage, crushing, processing, sale and
distribution of minerals.
16 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 120 of 238 - Exhibit B to OrdinWAZU-I TftQo
TH MANAGEMENT SECTION 3.4 RUML ECONOMY
SCOU' Ova, 3. 5 N atura L ~folza rots
Background
The need to address natural hazards has been elevated due to the population growth in the
region. The majority of Deschutes County lies within a large basin. While this location makes
the county less vulnerable to certain natural disasters such as landslides and windstorms, it does
not protect the area from wildland fires, severe winter storms and the low probability of
earthquakes and volcano eruption. Recently, Deschutes County has experienced a high number
of wildland fires. These fires have impacted environmental health and economic well- being as
well as the safety of peopleand structures.
Natural hazards are addressed in Statewide PlanningGoal 7, Areas Subject to Natural Hazards.
Goal 7 lists potential natural hazards, such as wildfire or floods, and directs communities to
enact comprehensive plan policiesand implementingregulationsto reduce the risk to people
and property. Local governments are directed to respond to new information provided by
federal or state agencies in cooperation with other local governments and in a defined
timeframe.
Informed by an understanding of natural hazards, Deschutes County can reduce the risks to
property, environmental quality, and human safetyby planningfor land use patterns and site-
specificdevelopment. The policies in this section of the Plan provide the framework for
evaluatingland use actions for their exposure to potential harm from natural hazards. The
policies guide the identification of areas subject to natural hazards, regulation and protection of
citizens, property and the environment. The protection methods prescribed by these policies
include prevention and preparedness, land use regulation, use of natural systems to mitigate
hazards, public education, and collaboration with other organizations.
Deschutes County Hazard Mitigation Plans
The County maintains plans for natural hazards. In 2004 the County created a Forestry
Specialist position to coordinate forest issues, includingaddressingfire prevention. The 2006
Deschutes County Natural Hazard Mitigation Plan was written collaborativelyand adoptedby
the Deschutes Board of County Commissioners as the official assessment of potential natural
hazards. It was the first pre- disasterplan, approved by the Federal EmergencyManagement
Agencyin Oregon.
Both the 2006 Natural Hazard Mitigation Plan and its update in 2010 were prepared in close
collaboration with partners such as the U.S. Forest Service, Oregon Departmentof Forestry,
local fire districts and municipalities. As Table 3. 4.1 indicates, wildfire and severe winter storms
are the natural hazards most likely to occur in Deschutes County. Each identified natural hazard
is discussed below.
DESCHUTES COUNTY
CpoompmEprum
PLAN - 2011 17
FVfe tXfll is iOECJfQIITanCeI MM-AL
HAZAIIDs
Table I& I - Natural Hazard Identification for Deschutes County
Hazard Probability of Occurrence Vulnerability Assessment Priority
Wildland Fire Hi High I
Severe Winter
Storms
Moderate High 2
Flooding Moderate Moderate 3
Volcanic
Eruption
Low Low 4
Earthquake Low Low 4
Source: 2010 Deschutes County Natural Nand Miciption Flan
Wildfire
Wildland fire is historically a natural and necessary component of forest ecosystems. About 100
years ago these fires were halted to promote livestock grazing, loggingand other activities.
Forests and other wildlands are now significantly altered due to fire prevention and suppression
efforts, resultingin overgrown forests with closed canopies and decayingfuels that burn more
intensely than in the past.
In addition, the recent increase in population has led to increased developmentin the Wildland
Urban Interface ( WUI), the area where residential and commercial developmentis intermixed
with forested lands. The demand for housing has pushed areas of highdensityresidential
developmentfurther into sites traditionally covered by wildland vegetation. Between fire
controls and populationgrowth, Deschutes County experienced a significantnumber of large,
fast- movingdestructive wildland- urban interface wildfires in the last quarter century.
Current land managers are working to restore the open ponderosa pine habitat and its
resiliencyto fire. Thinningstands to reduce the overall densitymakes it possible to reintroduce
low- severityprescribed fire. These controlled surface fires open the forest floor and recycle
nutrients, renewing the native diversity of grasses, shrubs and wildflowers. Additionally, a
network of federal, state and local efforts are beingdirected to preventing wildfires.
Deschutes County Fire Hazard Zones
Lepnd
Q- R. 6
civ
Oo~ wq.
An Howd
Pb
Yes
is DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 122 of 238 - Exhibit B to OrdiT(af1 I
OWTH MANAGEMENT SECTION 3.5 NATURAL. HAZARDS
Federal Healthy Forests Restoration Act
The Healthy Forests Restoration Act directs federal agenciesto collaborate with communities
in developinga Community Wildfire Protection Plan (CWPP), which includes the identification
and prioritization of areas needinghazardous fuels treatment. It further provides authorities to
expedite the National Environmental Policy Act process for fuels reduction projects on federal
lands. The act also requires that 50% of fundingallocated to fuels projects be used in the
Wildland Urban Interface. For the first time communities have the opportunity to direct where
federal agencies place their fuels reduction efforts. With a CWPP in place, community groups
can apply for grants to treat hazardous fuels and address special concerns to reduce the risk of
catastrophic loss as a result of wildland fire.
The Healthy Forests Restoration Act requires that the applicable local government, fire
departments and state entities responsible for forest management agree to the Community
Wildfire Protection Plans. These Plans outline the priorities, strategies and actions for fuels
reduction treatments in a specific planning area. Additionally, CWPPs also address special areas
of concern and make recommendations for reducingstructural vulnerabilityand creating
defensible spaces in sub- regionswithin the planningarea. They are intended to be a living
vehicle for fuels reduction, education, and other projects to decrease overall risks of loss from
wildland fire. As of 2010 there are seven adopted CWPPs that cover all the land in Deschutes
County.
Deschutes CountyCommunityWildfire Protection Plans
Greater Bend
Greater La Pine
Greater Redmond
Greater Sisters
Sunriver
Upper Deschutes River Coalition
Walker Range
OregonForesdand-Urban InterfaceFire Protection Act
The Oregon Forestland-Urban Interface Fire Protection Act, often referred to as Senate Bill
360, enlists the aid of property owners toward turning fire- vulnerableurban and suburban
properties into less- volatile zones where firefightersmay more safelyand effectivelydefend
homes from wildfires. Basically, the law requires property owners in identified forestland-urban
interface areas to reduce excess vegetation which may fuel a fire, around structures and along
driveways. In some cases, it is also necessary to create fuel breaks alongproperty lines and
roadsides.
Forestland-urban interface areas are identified in each county by a classification committee. A
committee is composed of five members - three appointed by the county, one by the state fire
marshal and one by the state forester. The process of identifyingforestland-urban interface
areas is described in Oregon Administrative Rules 629- 044-1005 through 629- 044-0145 and
includes:
Lands within the county and also inside an Oregon Departmentof Forestry protection
district.
Lands that meet the state's definition of ` forestland."
DESCHur~s~sRCouNTYCpoompR(wEpNS~nn<
PLAN - 20111
N,/~
Fgre l3 fT L i! CXIIIUIi ~ tS iOEClPC1iMSNAS1 Vt HAZARDS
Lands that meet the definition of "suburban" or " urban"; in some cases, " rural" lands may
be included within a forestland-urban interface area for the purpose of maintaining
meaningful, contiguous boundaries.
Lots that are developed, that are 10 acres in size or smaller, and which are grouped with
other lots with similar characteristics in a minimum densityof four structures per 40
acres.
Once foresdand-urban interface areas - are identified, a committee appliesfire- risk classifications.
The classifications range from " low" to " extreme," and are used by a property owner to
determine the size of a fuel break that needs to be established around a structure. Oregon
Department of Forestry supplies information about the acts' fuel- reductionstandards and mails
each property owner a certification card, which may be signedand returned to that agency
after the fuel- reduction standards have been met.
Deschutes County is one of two counties in Oregon that has fully implemented the Act. Senate
Bill 360 requirements have been applied county-wide. Residents can maintain their defensible
space through incentive programs such as the spring and fall Fire Free Clean Up days. Local fire
departmentsand the Fire Prevention Co-op provide education. Monitoring is conducted by
visits to the area and ongoing educational campaignsfor homeowners.
Firewise Communities
The national Firewise Communities program is a multi-agencyeffort designed to involve
homeowners, community leaders, planners, developers, and others in the effort to protect
people, property, and natural resources from the risk of wildland fire - before a fire starts. The
Firewise Communities approach emphasizescommunity responsibilityfor planningin the design
of a safe community as well as effective emergency response, and individual responsibility for
safer home construction and design, landscaping, and maintenance. The Central Oregon
District has eight Firewise Communities USA neighborhoodsnationally recognizedin the state
of Oregon: Fall River in 2004, Caldera Springs and Wildriver in 2007, Cascade Meadows, Aspen
Lakes, Awbrey Glen and River Meadow in 2009 and Crosswater in 2010. Working closelywith
communities is key in achieving defensible space.
ProjectWildfire
Project Wildfire is the result of a Deschutes County collaborative effort to create long-term
wildfire mitigation strategies and provide for a disaster- resistant community. Created through
Deschutes County Code 8. 24.0 10 and governed by a SteeringCommittee appointed by the
Board of County Commissioners, Project Wildfire coordinates and implementsstrategies to
mitigate the effects of losses due to natural disasters. This group reaches out to the community
with FireFree, a fire education program. They also facilitate Community Wildfire Protection
Plans. FinallyProject Wildfire coordinates the implementation of fuel reduction programs and
renewable uses for the materials that are removed.
Project Wildfire Duties
To reduce potential loss of life and property through natural and human disasters by
enhancing public awareness, expanding community partnerships and prioritizing potential
hazard mitigation projects, using stakeholder and citizen input.
Advise the Board of County Commissioners, ProjectWildfire staff and the Deschutes
County Office of Emergency Management and other agencies and programs on adoption
20 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 124 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordf MR Jd" OWTH MANAGEMENT SECRON 3.5 NATURAL HAZARDS
and implementationof wildfire mitigation and other natural hazard projects, includingbut
not limited to Hazard Mitigation programs approved by the Federal Emergency
ManagementAgency.
Project Wildfire Advisory Responsibilities
To make suggestions to stakeholders concerning disaster response plans, needed changes
in state or local laws and provide assistance to implement such suggestions.
To make recommendations on disaster planning as appropriate or as requested by the
Board of County Commissioners or other stakeholders.
Partnerships
Project Wildfire builds partnerships, sharingresources and eliminatingredundancies that allow
the community to succeed where other solo organizations or individuals cannot
Table 13.2 - Project Wildfire Partner Organizations
Deschutes County Oregon Office of State Fire Marshal
Deschutes County Rural Fire Protection
District No. 2
Deschutes National Forest - USFS Redmond
Fire and Rescue
Oregon Department of Forestry Jefferson ours Fire District
Bureau of Land Man ement La Fine Rural ire Protection District
Central Oregon ire Prevention Cooperative Sunriver Fire Department
Keep Oregon Green Sisters-Ca Sherman ire District
Bend Chamber of Commerce Southeast Bend Nei borhood Association
Bend Radio Group Deschutes River Woods HOA
Combined Communications Awbrey Butte Nei borhood Association
Horizon Broadcasting City of Bend Fire Department
ry Idea Ponderosa Pines H OA
Redmond Chamber of Commerce Sunriver
Awbrey Glen HOA illicum Villa HOA
Woodside Ranch HOA
2005- 2010 Accomplishments
Project Wildfire has had many accomplishments, such as those listed below.
Successfullycompeted for approximately 88.3 million from a variety of grant funds
Successfullytreated over 2, 000acres of private and county owned lands utilizing National
Fire Plan Fuels Treatment grants
Treated 63, 805 acres of private lands for wildland fuels treatment
Implemented a Low Income Fuels Treatment Assistance program
Collected 238,562 cubic yards of FireFree woody debris
Developeda partnershipwith a biomass company ( T2) to grind woody debris from
FireFree defensible space efforts and the fuels treatment contracts that the county
administers, to produce clean electricity
Conducted outreach and education seminars
As liaison with federal and state partners, treated an average of 18, 000 acres annually of
within the WUI as identified by the CWPPs
In partnership with Oregon Department of Forestryimplementedthe Oregon Foresdand-
Urban Interface Fire Protection Act of 1997
cDEscHurEs
COUNTY COMPREHENSIVEPLAN 20111 21
PC~2 OT L3SRtXf11DR 13 Z~ ErQIWAI
HAZARDS
Upper Deschutes Basin Fire LearningNetwork
The Nature Conservancy, U.S. Forest Service, and the Departmentof Interior, together with
state and local agencies, businesses, landowners, scientists, community groups and
conversationalists, created a national Fire LearningNetwork to catalyze fuel reduction and
restoration projects across the county. The Upper Deschutes Watershed, containing 2- million
acres is one of the project sites in the first phase of this national network. The Upper
Deschutes Fire LearningNetwork is developingnew vegetation maps, forest condition maps
and action maps prioritizing treatable areas.
The Upper Deschutes Fire LearningNetwork is developinga common vision for the landscape
utilizing the best available science and incorporating values through collaborative partnerships.
The team will also integrate community planningefforts like CommunityWildfire Protection
Plans with agency and government efforts to generate a vision for future land management. The
landscape's products are timed to complementDeschutes National Forest restoration strategy
plans.
Winter Storms
Severe winter storms are the second priority in the Natural Hazard Mitigation Plan because of
the risk to life and property by creating conditions that disrupt essential regionalsystems such
as public utilities, telecommunications, and transportation routes. Severe winter storms can
produce rain, freezingrain, ice, snow, cold temperatures, and wind. Severe winter storms
involvingheavy snow fall and cold temperatures occur more often than incidences of rain,
freezingrain and ice storms. Increased population, includingnew residents less familiar with
cold, snowy winters make Deschutes County more vulnerable to severe winter storms.
A severe winter storm is generally a prolonged event involving snow and cold temperatures.
The characteristics of severe winter storms are determined by the amount and extent of snow,
air temperature, and event duration. Severe storms have various impacts in different parts of
the county. There may be a 20 degree temperature difference from Terrebonne in the north
part of the county and La Pine in the south. The recurrence interval for severe winter storms
throughout Oregon is about every 13 years, however, there can be many localized storms
between these periods accordingto the Oregon Natural Hazard Assessment Plan.
Blooding
The third priority natural disaster is flooding. Generally, rimer floodingalongthe Deschutes River
has not historically been a serious problem in Deschutes County. This is due to the porous
nature of the geology, irrigation diversion canals and reservoir retention. Studies completedby
the U.S. Army Corp of Engineershave resulted in designatinga 100 year flood plain for the Little
Deschutes River and Whychus Creek. Regularflooding events have occurred near the
headwaters of Tumalo Creek and in the Tumalo community. AlongWhychusCreek, the city of
Sisters frequentlyexperiences flooding, with the most significantevent occurring in 1964.
A second area of concern focuses on the potential of flooding related to the failure of glacial
moraine dams that impound high- altitudelakes around the three Sisters and Broken Top. Much
of the Deschutes River Canyon is cut in basaltic lava flows, ash flows, or sedimentary rocks of
the Deschutes formation. These rock types are generally stable, but in many placesthe canyon
walls are steep to vertical. Mountain streams that beginin glaciallakes behind dams of ice or
moraines can occasionally be emptied rapidly and result in flash floods with accompanying mud
22 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 126 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ord a2~t '
oWTH MANAGEMENT SECTION IS NATURAL HAZARDS
flows. In the event of volcanic, earthquake or a largeavalanche of rock or ice into the lakes,
these dams could release floods of water and debris whose major impact would be restricted
to the hazard zone but which could inundate areas adjacent to streams.
Carver Lake, which lies in the headwaters of the South Fork of WhychusCreek, and the lake
on the east side of Broken Top that drains to SparksLake by way of Crater Creek and Soda
Creek, are judgedthe most likely lakes to generate future floods or debris flows large enough
to affect areas beyond the proximal hazard zone. Others of less hazard include several small
lakes in the headwaters of Whychus Creek and the basin below Collier Glacier at the head of
White Branch.
A third potential exists for sheet floodingoccurring on frozen or impervious ground. These
events are rare and generally found in localized areas and may occur during winter months and
after significantrain. Flash flooding may occur in areas of moderate to steep slopes with sparse
vegetation. With the occurrences of thunderstorms, these areas become susceptible to flooding
and subsequent soil erosion. This situation would be typifies) by the eastern part of Deschutes
County and areas without permanent streams.
U.S. Geological Survey scientists and U.S. Corp of Engineerstudies indicate the county is at a
low level of risk for catastrophic flooding. Studies of Carver Lake estimate the probability of a
lake flash flood to be approximately 1- 5X annually. Potentially, the Little Deschutes and
WhychusCreek are most vulnerable, however greater risks are related to future volcanic
eruptions which U.S. GeologicalSurveyscientists place at a low level of risk.
Volcanic Eruption and Earthquakes
Volcanic eruption and earthquakes are tied for fourth priority. The complex geology of
Deschutes County, with geologically recent eruptions, increases the potential for these types of
natural disasters.
Vokonic Eruptions
Two long-lived volcanic centers, Three Sisters to the west and Newberry Volcano to the south,
and many tens of smaller volcanoes have hosted numerous eruptions in geologicallyrecent
times that range widely in size and character. Some covered sizable, currently developedareas
with lava flows or swiftly moving flows of searing ash and pumice. Others only managedto
producesmall volumes of ash that blew downwind and were barely detectable in the geologic
record, or they produced lava flows in areas now protected as wilderness.
Largesnow- covered volcanoes of the Three Sisters volcanic center dominate Central Oregon's
landscapebetween Santiam Pass in the north and Willamette Pass in the south. Rapidly
developingareas in Deschutes County occupy the eastern border of the region. No eruptions
have occurred in Deschutes County duringthe past 1, 000 years, however the millennium
before experienced numerous eruptions, including several at South Sister, many eruptions in
the McKenzie Pass and Belknap Crater areas, and one eruption at Newberry Volcano.
Two types of volcanoes exist in the Three Sisters region and each pose distinct hazards to
peopleand property. South Sister, Middle Sister, and Broken Top are major composite
volcanoes clustered near the center of the region and have erupted repeatedly over tens of
thousands of years. These volcanoes may erupt explosively in the future. In contrast, mafic
volcanoes, which range from small cinder cones to largeshield volcanoes like North Sister and
DtscHUTts COUNTY CompmHENsm PLAN-
2011~
23
e'~ I'2 RR-P 99T0 nR 5  a nT~Sr, N~ l =
t~ 1~
U
HAZARDS
Belknap Crater, are typically short- lived ( weeks to centuries) and erupt less explosively than do
composite volcanoes. Hazardous events include eruption triggered events such as fallout of
volcanic ash or lava flows as well as non- eruptionevents such as landslides from the steep
flanks of large volcanoes or floods.
Earthquakes
Earthquakesare possible from four sources, though expert opinions vary regardingthe degree
of susceptibility from each. The four sources are:
the off- shore Cascadia Fault Zone,
deepintraplate events within the subductingJuan de Fuca Plate,
shallow crustal events within the North American Plate, and
earthquakes associated with renewed volcanic activity.
All have some tie to the subducting (diving) of the dense, oceanic Juan de Fuca Plate under the
lighter, continental North American Plate.
Volcanic earthquakes are commonly smaller than about magnitude2.5, roughly the threshold
for shakingfelt by observers close to the event. Swarms of small earthquakes may persist for
weeks to months before eruptions, but little or no damagewould occur to buildingsin
surroundingcommunities. Some volcanic related swarms may include earthquakes as large as
about magnitudeS. For the communities of Bend, La Pine, and Sunriver, shallow earthquakesin
the magnitude 4-5 range that are located beneath Newberry volcano would cause wails to
rattle or windows and dishes to vibrate.
Tectonic earthquakesoccur periodically in south- central and southeast Oregon, and they are
capable of exceeding the magnitude of volcanic earthquakes. Newberry Volcano lies in an area
whose land forms result from earthquake activity. Tectonic earthquakes as large as magnitude 7
may strike areas south and east of Newberry. Statistically speaking, Central Oregon residents
are far more likely to feel earthquake shakingthan to witness an eruption in the area.
The Cascadia Subduction Zone located off the Oregon Coast generates an earthquake on
average every 500- 600 years. However, as with any natural processes the average time
between events can be misleading. Some of the earthquakesmay have been 150 years apart
while some closer to 1, 000years apart. Establishinga probability for crustal earthquakes is
difficult given the small number of historic events in the region.
The Deschutes County Sheriffs Office EmergencyServices has been working closely with the
Red Cross on earthquake preparedness in the event of a major quake on the Cascadia
Subduction Zone. The focus is less on local earthquake damage, which is anticipated to be
minimal, than on secondary impacts. An earthquake could damagethe roads that are needed to
supply Central Oregon and as the roads re- open could lead to an influx of refugeesfrom west
of the Cascade Mountains. Planningahead allows the County to manage these impacts.
24 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 128 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ord9m2~~ xtftowTH MANAGEMENT SwnoN 3.3 NATURAL HAZARDS
seatLov%. 3. 5 N atkra L ~taza rots T' oU* r, es
Goal and Policies
Goad 1 Protect people, property, infrastructure, the economy and the
environment from natural hazards.
Policy3. 5.1 Adopt by reference the most recent Deschutes County Natural Hazards
Mitigation Plan into this Plan.
a. Review and evaluate this Section of the Comprehensive Plan every five years.
b. Adopt by reference Community Wildfire Protection Plans and revisions into
this Plan.
Policy3. 5.2 Cooperate and coordinate with stakeholders to:
a. Analyze and address natural hazards;
b. Raise public awareness of natural hazards;
c. Support research or studies on natural hazard issues and solutions.
Policy 3. 5.3 Coordinate with emergency service providers when new developmentis
proposed.
Policy3. 5.4 Provide incentives and if needed regulations, to manage development in areas
prone to natural hazards.
Policy 3. 5.5 Development should be designed to minimize alteration of the natural land form
in areas subject to slopeinstability, drainageissues or erosion.
Policy3. 5.6 Critical facilities ( schools, churches, hospitalsand other facilities as defined by
the Federal EmergencyManagementAgency) should be located outside highrisk
natural hazard areas, where possible.
Policy 3. 5.7 Address wildfire dangerparticularly in the wildland urban interface.
a. Survey and map wildfire hazard at risk areas using the Wildfire Hazard
Identification and MitigationSystem.
b. Survey and map all areas not protected by structural fire protection agencies.
Policy3. 5.8 Support forest management practices that reduce severe wildfire hazard areas,
as identified by the Wildfire Hazard Identification and Mitigation System, to a low
or moderate rating, particularlyin areas with development.
Policy3. 5.9 Support local fire protection districts and departments in providing and
improving fire protection services.
Policy3.5.10 Regulatedevelopment in designatedfloodplainsidentified on the Deschutes
County Zoning Map based on Federal EmergencyManagementAct regulations.
a. Participate in and implement the Community RatingSystem as part of the
National Flood Insurance Program.
b. Cooperate with other stakeholders to identify alternatives for acquiring
and/or relocating existing structures prone to flooding.
cMscm
m COUNTY COMrREHENSM PLAN - 2011 25
Rre - CXf11 EUf41PT8 ~@ I Vt
HAZARDS
Policy 3. 5.11 Review and revise County Code as needed to:
a. Ensure that land use activities do not aggravate, accelerate or increase the
level of risk from natural hazards.
b. Address wildfire concerns to and from development, through consideration
of site location, buildingconstruction and design, landscaping, defensible
space, fuel management, access and water availability.
c. Requiredevelopment proposals to include an impact evaluation that reviews
the ability of the affected fire agency to maintain an appropriate level of
service to existing developmentand the proposeddevelopment.
d. Minimize erosion from development and ensure disturbed or exposed areas
are promptly restored to a stable, natural and/or vegetatedcondition using
natural materials or native plants.
e. Ensure drainage from development or alterations to historic drainage patterns
do not increase erosion on- site or on adjacent properties.
f. Make the Floodplain Zone a combiningzone and explore ways to minimize
and mitigate floodplainimpacts.
S. Require new subdivisions and destination resorts to achieve FireWise
Standards from the beginningof the projects and maintain those standards in
perpetuity.
26 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 130 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ord9 RJdy "OWTH
MANAGEMENT SECTION 3.5 NATum HAZARDS
seou' ovu 3.& T->L-cbU* 0 i= acULU' es om'd servtoes
Background
Public facilities and services provide the basic infrastructure for urban and rural development.
These systems include water and sewer systems, police and fire protection, health and social
services, schools, and libraries. Transportation is also a publicfacility and is addressed
separately (see Section 3.7).
Most peoplehave an expectation that the publicfacilities and services that support our lives,
from law enforcement to electricity, will be available. Generally, the provision of facilities and
services is more efficient and cost- effective in compact urban areas than in scattered rural
development. In some areas of the County, particularly east County, available services are
limited due to the large properties and distance from urban centers. Many of the people who
choose to reside there consider the limited availabilityof services and facilities as an acceptable
trade off for the ranching lifestyle.
Statewide PlanningGoal 11, Public Facilities and Services and the associated Oregon
Administrative Rule 660- 011 specify that facilities and services should be appropriate for, but
limited to, the needs and requirements of rural areas to be served. Public facilityplans are not
required for rural areas as they are for urban development (except for certain Unincorporated
Communities). In fact, Goal I I and the associated rule define limits to the provision of sewers
and water systems in rural areas, in order to limit rural growth.
There are several important issues relating to the provision of public facilities and services.
Meetingthe needs of county residents while supporting the protection of resource lands
Maintaininghealth, safety, and security throughout the county
Cooperatingand collaboratingamong the various providers of publicservices
Although counties must ensure public facilities and services are plannedfor, the facilities and
services need not be provided by county government. The discussion below highlightswho
provides the services listed and how the County can manage developmentimpacts on existing
facilities and services.
County Facilities and Services
Law Enforcement: The Deschutes County Sheriffs Office is a full service organization providing
patrol, traffic team, criminal investigations, corrections, civil and search and rescue. Special
operations include a Marine Patrol, K-9 units, and Forest Patrol. The Sheriff is an elected public
official who serves a four year term. A 2006 vote created two taxing districts to permanently
fund Sheriff Office operations.
Solid Waste Disposal. The County manages Knott Landing landfill and four transfer stations,
Negus, Northwest, Alfalfa and Southwest. Knott Landinglandfill receives the transfer and
recycling waste from the four transfer stations ( see Section 2.9 for recycling). Knott Landfill is
anticipated to last until 2029 at which time it is planned to be reclaimed as park land. A
replacement site will be identified approximately10 years prior to the proposed closure date.
DESCNUtss CouNTY Compmi msiw PLAN - 2011 27
F'gre " Hf3 FAaunts AND SERVICES
As of 20 10 an issue that has been discussed is creating a landfill overlayzone to prevent
conflicts between landfills and homeowners.
CountyHealth Department: The County health department promotes and protects the health of
the community through collaboration, education, prevention and the delivery of compassionate
care through a variety of supportive programs.
Government Administration Buildings: The County provides government functions pertaining to
the County Recorder and Licensing, Assessor and Finance departments.
Fairgrounds: The County maintains the County Fairgroundsand ExpoCenter. With panoramic
views of the snow- cappedCascade range, the Deschutes County Fair and ExpoCenter is
situated on the outskirts of Redmond just off of Hwy 97 and adjacent to the Redmond
Municipal Airport. Due to its central location, the fairgrounds also serves as an emergency
center. The fairgrounds hosts the annual County Fair and numerous other events throughout
the year.
Other Agency Facilities and Services
Where other agenciesprovide facilities and services, the County role is to coordinate with
these agenciesand work cooperativelyon projects and proposals that benefit County residents.
Where there are gaps in the coverage for specific areas, the County can work with providers
to fill them. For example, there are taps in coverage by fire districts that leave some areas
unprotected.
Central OregonIntergovernmentalCouncil. COIC beganserving the residents and communities of
Central Oregon in 1972 as a Council of Governments organized under ORS 190 by Crook,
Deschutes and Jefferson Counties and Bend, Culver, Madras, Metolius, Prineville, Redmond and
Sisters. COIC provides a wide variety of educational and economic developmentservices such
as workforce training, alternative high school education, business loans and public
transportation. COIC continues to evolve to meet the needs of Central Oregon.
COIC is governedby a I S- memberboard made up of elected officials who are appointedby
each of the member governments as well as appointed representatives of key economic sectors
business and industry, tourism and recreation, agribusiness and agriculture, timber and wood
products, and the unemployed/ underemployed. The respective county court or commission
makes each appointment.
School Districts: There are three school districts in Deschutes County: Bend-La Pine ( SD 1),
Redmond ( SD 2J) and Sisters ( SD 6). Additionally, since the school in Brothers closed for lack
of students, some residents in the eastern parts of the County attend schools in Crook County
School District ( SD IS). East County residents have expressed interest in additional, but
limited, rural development, to facilitate the reopening of Brothers School. The High Desert
Education Service District ( ESD) partners with the districts to provide support services such as
special education, school improvement, administrative and legalservices.
Fire Districts: The following fire districts support rural residents: Bend Fire Department, Black
Butte Ranch Rural Fire Protection District, Cloverdale Rural Fire Protection District, Crooked
River Ranch Rural Fire Protection District, Deschutes County Rural Fire Protection District # I
and #2, La Pine Rural Fire Protection District, Sisters-Camp Sherman Rural Fire Protection
District, and Sunriver Service District. Public lands are protected by federal agencies. There are
28 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 132 of 238 - Exhibit Ngp6eG~b19 ptbUNACEMENTSECTION 3.6 Pusuc fACiunis AND SEavicts
some areas in Deschutes County not covered by a fire district. ( See Section 3.5 for more on
fire protection.)
Irritation Districts. Irrigation districts in Oregon are organized as Special Districts under ORS
Chapter 545. They are thus publiccorporations under Oregon Law, with prescribed rules for
purpose, boards, elections, staffing, charges, etc. The districts are created for the purpose of
deliveringwater to their patrons. As such they are effectively non- profit water user
associations. In addition to irritation uses, these districts also supply a number of other uses,
including municipal, industrial, and pond maintenance, warranting coordination with
municipalities.
Libraries: Deschutes Public Library has branches in Bend, Redmond, Sisters, La Pine and
Sunriver. They also operate a bookmobile program that focuses on children and parenting
books and a program for supplyingbooks to homebound residents.
HigherEducation: Located in Bend, Central Oregon Community Collegeand the Oregon State
University Cascade Campus provide secondary educational opportunities. As of 2010 there is
considerable discussion about the need for a full four-year university.
Deschutes CountyExtension and 4- H Service District: In Oregon, 4- H is part of the Oregon State
University Extension Service. It is a youth education program with membership available to all
Oregon youth in grades 4- 12. The 4- H Programin Deschutes County involves approximately
300 volunteer leaders working with about 1, 200youth. Additionally, the Oregon State
University Extension Service roaches over 400 youth through non- traditionalprograms on a
continuing basis.
Soil and Water Conservation District: Soil and Water Conservation Districts are uniquely
authorized by the State of Oregon to provide for the conservation of its soil and water
resources. Working in cooperation with stakeholders, the districts address issues such as
control and prevention of soil erosion, conservation and development of water resources,
water qualityand preserving wildlife. The Deschutes Soil and Water Conservation District is a
legallydefined subdivision of the state government, but, like all soil and conservation districts,
functions as a local unity led by a locallyelected board of directors who serve without pay.
Mixed Public and Private Facilities and Services
Water Districts: Water districts include both publically-owned and privatelyawned Public Water
Systems. Public Water Systemsare defined as those that have more than three connections,
supplywater at last 60 days/year and are used by at least 10 persons/day. All water systems
are regulatedunder the federal 1974 Safe DrinkingWater Act and 1981 Oregon Drinking
Water Quality Act. Public Water Systemsserving over 3, 300people are overseen by the
Oregon Departmentof Human Services DrinkingWater Program. The County acts as a
contractor for the Department of Human Services to monitor approximately 180 Public Water
Systems. Some privately owned systems are, for various reasons, regulated by the Public Utility
Commission, which sets rates and rules for public utilities.
Privately Owned Facilities and Services
Utilities. Electricity is provided by Pacific Power around Bend and Redmond. Central Electric
Cooperative and Midstate Electric provide service in the rest of the County.
DEHSCHiCmss CouyN,TYCompRmaNS~m PLAAyN-20(1~, y~i
FNYOTES 8L9S tXf11 Wb iOEV , Q S&%p@ " dS
FACILMES AND SERVICES
Phone service is providedby Qwest and numerous cell phoneproviders. Cable is provided by
Bend Cable and satellite providers. Internet is provided by variety of servers.
Hospitals: Cascade Healthcare Community manages two hospitals: St. Charles Bend and St.
Charles Redmond. Additionally there are numerous health providers and clinics.
Sewer Districts. Creatingor expanding existing sewer systems outside an urban growth boundary
or unincorporated community is governed by Statewide Goal I I and OAR 660- 011-0060. In
order to protect rural areas from urban-style development, the rules regulate where and when
rural sewers are appropriate. Some sewer districts, such as Oregon Water Wonderland Unit 2,
have used the Statewide Goal 2 exception process to create or expand a sewer system.
Vector Control District Four Rivers Vector Control District was formed in 1985 to combat
seasonal infestations of mosquitoes. Using environmentally sensitive chemicals, the District
fightsapproximately22 different species of mosquitoes. The district is located between
Sunriver and La Pine. They are the only district in Deschutes County that does aerial mosquito
spraying.
Individual Facilities and Services
Private wells: Most rural properties are served by private wells that are approved and managed
by the Oregon Water Resources Department. The County currently does not track the
number of wells. 2009 legislationrequires new well diggersto provide a map of the well
location and pay $300 that will be used for monitoring groundwater. Wells existing as of the
date of the legislation are not required to comply.
Individual septicsystems. Most rural properties are served by septic systems that are approvedby
the County Environmental Health Division.
Coordination on Facility and Service Planning
The County role in planning for facilities and services involves coordination, to assure that as
new growth is approved, facilities and services are available. Some specific areas for
coordination are listed below.
Schools. ORS 195. 110 requires large school districts, cities, and counties to plan for the future
and coordinate with one another to assist school districts with obtainingland. Districts are
generally required to prepare a 10-yearcapital improvement plan for sites and facilities. Cities
and counties are generallyrequired to helpthe districts protect or obtain sites and through
land use policiesand development codes. In specificcircumstances, cities and counties may
deny applicationsfor residential developmentif adequate school capacity is not available. The
law includes mandates for each entity and delineates responsibilities.
Other Jurisdictions: There are instances where other jurisdictions facilities are located in
unincorporated lands. For example, the City of Bend wastewater treatment plant and Airport
are sited on lands regulatedby the County. Close coordination with cities goes a longway in
ensuring adequate operation and maintenance for those facilities.
Service Districts. Close coordination with service providers will assure that as new development
is approved adequate facilities and services are available.
30 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 134 of 238 - Exhibit ' i~ '~eG~b JINAa"~
SECTION 3.6 rutuc FAciutits AND SERvicEs
Facility Issues 2010
As of 2010 there is controversy over the siting of power facilities and cell towers. These
facilities generallyprovide community-wide benefits with area- specificvisual impacts. A review
of County Code and how other jurisdictions regulatethese uses can identify potential siting and
designstandards that can be adopted to minimize impacts.
DEscHu7Es COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011 31
Fq J SRtXI111 tS TDEIJICIIa @ 1Ul " 6 FACILITIESAND SERVICES
Seotl,Ow 3. 0 T> u.bU* r, i= nrLUt%es avi,ol servLoes
PoU' oits
Goal and Policies
Goad 1 Support the orderly, efficient and cost- effective siting of rural public
facilities and services.
Policy3. 6.1 Encourage the formation of special service districts to serve rural needs rather
than have the County serve those needs.
Policy 3. 6.2 Encourageearly planningand acquisition of sites needed for public facilities, such
as roads, water and wastewater facilities.
Policy3. 6.3 Support community health clinics.
Policy3. 6.4 Where possible, maintain County offices in locations convenient to all areas of
the county.
Policy 3. 6.5 Support the County Fairgroundsas a community gathering place, event facility
and home to the annual County Fair.
Policy3. 6.6 Maintain the County Fairgroundsas an emergency readiness location.
Policy3. 6.7 Before disposingof County-owned property review whether the land is
appropriate for needed public projects such as schools, health clinics, fire
stations or senior centers.
Policy3. 6.8 Coordinate with rural service districts and providers to ensure new
development is reviewed with consideration of service districts and providers
needs and capabilities.
Policy 3. 6.9 New development shall address impacts on existing facilities and plansthrough
the land use entitlement process.
Policy3. 6. 10 Support education districts, library districts and recreation districts in meeting
community needs, such as meeting spaces.
Policy3. 6.11 Where possible, locate utility lines and facilities on or adjacent to existing public
or private right- ofways and to avoid dividing farm or forest lands.
Policy 3. 6.12 Review publicfacilities and services to minimize impacts of the facilities on the
larger community.
a. Review and revise as needed County Code to require screening of public
facilities including power generating facilities and sewage treatment plants, and
to address impacts from cell towers.
Policy 3. 6.13 Support the creation of a landfill overlay zone.
Policy3. 6.14 Guide the location and design of rural development so as to minimize the public
costs of facilities and services.
32 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 136 of 238 - Exhibit(:diglb~Al~ g e1M- btjNAGEMENTSECTION 3.6 rusuc FAc t mo ANo SERvicEs
5ectiov. 3. 7 Tina wsportatLov.
The Transportation System Plan is beingadopted as a separate project and will be incorporated
here when adopted.
CDNEscHuTEsCouNTGY
ComPREHENsm PL
m~ $-~2201
11
7'
PaC~~ SR- CXt11bR~tS iOEIlfQ11T %gNAJ' f-I' Ii~ORTATION
Sect'W* VL 3. 8 lZROL R, ecreat'ow
Back=round
Recreation is an important qualityof life issue for Deschutes County and recreational tourism is
an important part of the economy ( see Section 3.4). Both residents and visitors are drawn by
the extensive public lands, seasonal climate and wide variety of activities and settings.
Recreation opportunities include places set aside for specific activities such as campgrounds or
sports fields as well as passivespaces such as natural areas. The primary focus of recreation in
rural Deschutes County is outdoor recreation.
Outdoor activities promote healthy communities by encouraging people to enjoy an active
lifestyleand by providing opportunities to reconnect with the natural world. The Central
Oregon Visitor Association, a regional voice for the tourist industry, reported in their 2008
Annual Report that 2.5. million visitors came to Central Oregon in 2006, approximately 60% of
whom were here for destination resort vacation travel. That report showed that in 2007 travel
impacts for Deschutes County totaled over $ 470 million and supported over 5, 400jobs.
The Oregon Parks and Recreation Department is the agency responsible for overall
coordination on park planning. That agency regularly produces a Statewide Comprehensive
Outdoor Recreation Plan (SCORP) which helps in planningand rankingrecreation needs.
Statewide PlanningGoal 8, Recreation and Oregon Administrative Rule ( OAR) 660- 034 address
recreation, but do not require local governments to provide park and recreation services. The
County does not have a parksdepartment. Instead it coordinates with the federal and state
agencies, local park districts and private entities that provide park and recreational
opportunities. Coordination assures that resources are used efficiently and duplication is
avoided.
Federal Recreation
Recreation Opportunities on Federal Lands
The federal government, primarily the U.S. Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management,
govern over 76Y. of the lands in the Deschutes County. Those lands are managedfor a mix of
uses, including recreation. They provide opportunities for a wide variety of outdoor activities
such as hiking, hunting, off- road vehicle riding, rock climbing, kayakingor skiing.
Deschutes National Forest - Sustainable Recreation
The Deschutes National Forest is developinga strategy for sustainable recreation. A national
team has been working on this concept and has drafted a framework. Recreational lands
provide an opportunity to improve health through physical activity, contribute to local
economies, provide needed environmental services such as clean water and preserve important
national treasures.
At the same time, there are unprecedented challengesto providing quality recreation including
deteriorating recreation facilities, degradednatural areas, growth in demand for recreational
spaces and facilities and inadequate funding.
34 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 138 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ord9
R
Jd4J" OwTH
MANAGEMENT SECTION 3.8 RURAL RECREATION
By focusingon the three spheres that frame sustainabiilty - environmental, social and economic,
and investing in a community's ability to lead, a recreation program for the Deschutes National
Forest has the potential to greatly contribute to the agency's mission.
The majority of the National Forest lands are available for outdoor recreation including the
defined areas listed below.
Winter Recreation Areas - such as Crescent Lake Area, McKenzie Pass Area or Three
Creek Lake Area
Resorts with SpecialUse Permits from the Deschutes National Forest such as Cultus Lake
Resort, Elk Lake Resort or Paulina Lake Resort
Three Sisters Wilderness Area
Bureau of Land Management (dLM)
The Upper Deschutes Resource Management Plan was completed by the Bureau of Land
Managementin 2005. The Plan directs management of approximately 400,000 acres of land in
Central Oregon. It describes the overall vision and goals for the planning area and includes
area- specificplansand objectives.
The majority of the Bureau of Land Management lands are available for outdoor recreation
includingthe defined areas listed below.
Recreation Areas - such as Cline Buttes Recreation Area, La Pine Recreation Area or
Millican ValleyOHV Area
Oregon Badlands Wilderness Area
Other Federal Recreation Sites
The Newberry National Volcanic Monument ComprehensiveManagement Plan covers the
Newberry National Volcanic and Newberry Crater National Monuments. The
Upper Deschutes Wild and Scenic River and State Scenic Waterway Comprehensive
ManagementPlan governs the federal and state wild and scenic rivers ( Upper Deschutes River,
Upper Whychus Creek).
Stage Recreation
OregonStatewide ComprehensiveOutdoor Recreation Ilan ( SCORP)
The SCORP, prepared by the Oregon Parks and Recreation Department (ORPD) was most
recently competedand acceptedby the National Park Service in 2008. The planconstitutes
Oregon's five-year planfor outdoor recreation ( 2008-2012). It also provides guidance for the
Land and Water Conservation Fund ( LWCF), a federal program that provides grants to state
and local governments for land acquisition for outdoor recreation, and other ORPD grant
programs. In most years, all states receive LWCF grant funds based on a national formula,
with state population beingthe most influential factor. To qualify for stateside LWCF funding,
each state must prepare a SCORP every five years. The primary purpose of the SCORP is to
provide recommendations to the Oregon State Park System operations, administration,
planning, development, and recreation programs. It also provides guidance for other OPRD-
administered grant programs includingthe Local Grant, County Opportunity Grant,
Recreational Trails and All- Terrain Vehicle Programs.
Oregon's Scenic WaterwaysAct declares recreation, fish, and wildlife as the highest and best
water uses in scenic waterways ( ORS 390. 835 ( 1)). The Scenic Waterways Act and case law
govern protection of these areas.
McHuns COUNTY COMPREHENSIVERAN - 2011 33
FffeTF . 8f. hSRCCXf11UR § iOEt1f%( ?N2bJfftRECREATION
State Parks
Cline Falls State Scenic Viewpoint
La Pine State Park
Pilot Butte State Scenic Viewpoint
Smith Rock State Park ( Internationally acclaimed rock climbingsite)
Tumalo State Park
OregonScenic Waterways
Upper Deschutes River
Middle Deschutes River
OregonScenic Byways
Cascade Lakes Scenic Byway
McKenzie Pass - Santiam Pass Scenic Byway
Local Recreation
There are four local park and recreation special service districts established in Deschutes
County. Each is governed by an elected five member Board of Directors. Together they
provide a variety of parks and recreational programs for their respective communities.
Bend Park and Recreation District
Bend Park and Recreation District maintains and operates more than 2, 000acres of developed
and undeveloped parkland, that includes 74 parks and open spaces and 56 miles of trails. Over
770 recreation programs are offered and a number of special community events are held. In
2006, Bend Park and Recreation District received the National Gold Medal Award for
excellence in Park and Recreation management. This award is given to the best park and
recreation agency in the nation for its population category.
La Pine Park and Recreation District
The La Pine Park and Recreation District was established in 1990 and covers 8S square miles in
south Deschutes County, includingthe City of La Pine. The first Board of Directors was elected
at the time of formation, but a tax rate was not established or approved by voters until May,
2009. Before the tax was approved the district was managedby committed volunteers. The first
director was hired in January, 2010 allowingthe district to build a solid foundation for future
growth.
Redmond Area Park and Recreation District
Redmond Area Park and Recreation District was established in 1975. The district's facilities
include the Cascade Swim Center ( CSC) and CSC Park, the RAPRD Activity Center, the High
Desert SportsComplex, Borden Beck Park, and undeveloped parks at Majestic Ridge in
Redmond and outside the city limits at Tetherow Crossing. The district sponsors a wide variety
of recreation programs.
Sisters Park and Recreation District
The Sisters Park & Recreation District was established in 1998 under the name of an earlier
non- profit called Sisters Organizationof Activities and Recreation ( SOAR). The district serves
Sisters and the outlying areas of about 14, 000 residents. In 2009 the name of the organization
was changed from SOAR to Sisters Park & Recreation District.
36 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 140 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ord5fMj F" OWTH
MANAGEMENT SECTION 3.8 RURAL RECREATION
County Parks
The only public parks the County maintains are a section of the County Fairgrounds and the
Worrell Wayside in downtown Bend. However, althoughthere is no County parks department,
there are County-owned properties which are designated as park lands. Starting in 1994 the
County beganto designatecertain sensitive properties alongrivers, creeks or streams or with
wildlife, wetlands or other values, as park lands. The intent was not to develop these lands for
park use but rather to preserve lands with valuable resources. The park designationmeans that
the lands would be retained in public ownership unless there was a public hearingand the
Board of County Commissioners determined that selling was in the best interest of the public.
ORS 275. 330 governs the disposalof these lands, stating that if they are sold the proceeds must
be dedicated to park or recreation purposes. As of 2009, there were approximately70
properties designatedas park lands. These lands were designatedto protect resources such as
water, wildlife or rivers ( see Section 1.3).
Private Recreation
Private recreational sites are generally open to the public for a fee. They include destination
resorts ( see Section 3.9) and resort communities ( see Section 4.7). Additionally there are 23
golf courses within an hour of Bend/ Sunriver includingaward-winninglayouts designedbyjack
Nicklaus, Tom Fazio, David McLayKidd, Peter Jacobsen and Tom Doak.
A different type of recreation is provided by the High Desert Museum. The nationally acclaimed
High Desert Museum is dedicated to broadeningthe understandingof the High Desert's
wildlife, culture, art and natural resources. In doing so, it strives to promote thoughtful decision
makingto sustain the region's natural and cultural heritage.
Notable Local Sites and Activities
The following are just a sample of the sites and activities available in Deschutes County.
Mt. bachelor
Mt. Bachelor Ski Resort with a summit of over 9, 000feet, has over 3, 700acres of varied terrain
for skiers, snowboarders and Nordic skiers. Mt. Bachelor also offers restaurants, ski shops and
numerous activities, from snowshoeingin the winter to hiking in the summer.
Phil's Trailhead System (Central OregonTrail Alliance)
The Deschutes National Forest and Bureau of Land Management - Prineville District are
recognized for having some of the best mountain biking in the nation. The Central Oregon Trail
Alliance, in partnership with those agencies and other land managers build and maintain trails
throughout Central Oregon. Central Oregon is a year- round destination for professional and
amateur mountain bikers.
Cascade CyclingClassic
The Cascade CyclingClassic is the longest consecutively run elite stage race in the country and
has attracted most of North America's top cyclists and teams over the years. The qualityof the
race courses, the beauty of Central Oregon and the fun atmosphere of the race has made it a
perennialfavorite and has the competitors returning year after year.
McHuTEs COUNTY
CpooMrµRpEHE,pNsswEPLAN -
2011 37 4~
1R~ 3~ R- CXnIDRti IOELIrQ1AS(RS 1 gfftRECREATION
FlyFishing
The Upper Deschutes River offers fly fishingopportunities for Brook, Brown and Rainbow
trout. The Upper Deschutes River has easy access either by foot, boat or SUV. Fall River, a
spring fed high mountain stream 25 miles southwest of Bend is a fly fishingonly river in an
attractive setting.
Off HighwayVehicles
The Deschutes National Forest and Bureau of Land Managementoffer numerous challengingoff
road vehicle trials.
Pole Peddle Paddle
The annual Pole, Pedal, Paddle event draws approximately 2, 800participants competing as
teams, tandems and individuals in a race that includes both alpine and Nordic skiing, cycling,
running, paddlingand sprinting from Mt. Bachelor Ski Resort to Bend's Les Schwab
Amphitheater.
Deschutes River Paddle Trail
The Deschutes Paddle Trail, sponsored by the Bend Paddle Trail Alliance includes the navigable
sections of the Deschutes River and the Little Deschutes River in Deschutes County, alongwith
nine of the largestCascade lakes in the County.
Althoughthe Deschutes Paddle Trail has sections that everyone can safetyenjoy, the levels of
difficulty include everythingfrom placid easy sections ( Class 1) to very difficult ( and dangerous)
sections ( Class V) that are for experts only.
Recreational Trends
As of 2009 there were two groups working on separate aspects of recreation planning.
Ad Hoc Committee on Recreational Assets: This committee was crated in 2007 to promote
economic development, local quality of life and health and wellness. County Commissioner
TammyBaney was co- chair of this committee. The committee identified and prioritized specific
improvement projects that will enhance the County's recreational assets based on the following
principles:
Restore healthyforests in the area bounded by the Deschutes River, Elk Lake and Skyline
Forest
Promote accessible, dispersed recreation to diverse activities and skill sets;
Promote connectivity between towns
Leverage project investment with user group contributions
Coordinate with the Trust for Public Lands
Deschutes CountyfGreenprintThe non- profit Trust for Public Lands led a collaborative County-
wide effort in 2007- 2010 to identify lands with important natural resource, open space or
recreational value. They also provided strategies for obtaining the fundingneeded to purchase
and manage the lands recommended for preservation. Deschutes County was a partner in this
effort ( see Section 1.3).
38 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 142 of 238 - Exhibit B to OrdM& Rldy"OWTH
MANAGEMENT SECTION 3.8 Rum RECREATION
Future Opportunities
With federal and state agencies as well as four local park and recreation districts, it is important
to work cooperatively to assure wise use of scarce resources. The results of the Recreation
Assets Committee and the Trust for Public lands will be useful in providing guidance on priority
recreational projects and lands. One potential area for cooperation that came out of the public
outreach for this Plan was working with federal and state agenciesto ensure safe and
convenient access to rivers and streams.
Trails are an element of park and recreation planningwhere the County has the potential for
active involvement. Many of the initiatives identified by the Committee on Recreational Assets
are related to trails. There are numerous trails throughout the County and region that have
been created and are maintained by various agencies and organizations. The goal is to tie these
trails together to make movement between areas possible. Besides connecting trails, there also
needs to be work done to minimize the conflicts between hikers, equestrians and bicyclists.
Each of these groups has different needs from a trail system.
Recreation planningalways needs to address the concern that growth will lead to overuse and
degradation of the assets that attract user groups. The demand for recreation can lead to
crowds at wilderness areas, trails and mountain lakes, impacting the experience. Working
cooperativelywith all stakeholders will assure that recreation planningminimizes these
potential conflicts and maximizes the available recreational opportunities.
DESCHUTESCOUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011 39
Payees SRtXCllt) Rl3lOElIlC111 &(RgN RECREATION
seotLow : 3. g 1Zt44-rnL Reorent~ ovi,1> oLLoLes
Goal and Policies
Goal 1 Promote a variety of passive and active park and recreation
opportunities through a regional system that includes federal and
state parks and local park districts.
Policy3. 8.1 Cooperate with public agenciesand local park districts to provide park and
recreation lands, facilities and opportunities.
a. The Statewide ComprehensiveOutdoor Recreation Plan and State Park
Master Plans shall serve as a basis for coordination on County-wide park and
recreation issues.
b. Support exceptions to Statewide PlanningGoals for urban fringe areas owned
or acquired and operated by park and recreation districts.
Policy3. 8.2 Work cooperativelywith public agencies to promote standards for consolidation
of public land access and to ensure recreational entry to those lands, especially
alongrivers and streams.
Policy3. 8.3 Encouragecoordination between the U.S. Forest Service, the Bureau of Land
Managementand off- road vehicle organizations to regulate use of motorized
vehicles, includingmotorbikes, ATVs and snowmobiles in order to minimize
environmental degradation, agricultural fragmentation and user conflicts on
private property.
Policy3. 8.4 Participatein federal recreation planningon federal lands and state park planning
on State lands.
Policy 3. 8.S Support accessible park and recreation opportunities in compliance with the
Americans with Disabilities Act.
Policy3. 8.6 Support efforts to coordinate recreation planningbetween park and recreation
districts, school districts, irrigation districts and cities.
Policy3. 8.7 Work with UnincorporatedCommunities that express an interest in parks, open
spaces and community centers.
Policy3. 8.8 Coordinate trail designand fundingwith transportation system plans and support
efforts to provide and manage rural trail segments and bicycle routes.
Policy 3. 8.9 Support the Committee on Recreational Assets in identifyingpriority
recreational projects, includingincorporating as appropriate, elements of the
Committee on Recreational Assets into this Plan.
Policy 3.8. 10 Update County Code as needed to define rural recreational uses such as private
parks.
40 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 144 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordq I RJdd" OWTH
MANAGEMENT SECTION 3.8 RUML RECREATION
sect%oo, 3.9 Dest' L'wat' Lov, Resorts
Note - the existingdestination resort comprehensiveplansection is beingretained.
DE~SCHUTES
COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 145 of 238 - Exhibit B to 6 Ilia a [ ( b& ~ ~ - ~
MANAGEMENT SEcnoN 3.9 DESTINATION REsoRTs
sect~ow 3. 10 area specLf~c paws Awd ~ol~ c~es
Back= round
There are rural areas around the County experiencing specific challengesthat could benefit
from a more detailed review. Usingpublic outreach and in- depthanalysis, the County can
respond to the unique values and issues in defined areas. This can be done through community
plansor simplyadding specific policies.
Three areas have been identified as of 2010 for area specific plans or policies; South County,
Deschutes Junction and the Oregon Military site. Other areas where community plansor
policies might be initiated are Deschutes River Woods and east County. Deschutes County is
committed to cooperating with residents on creating specific community plans or policies as
requestedand as resources permit.
South Deschutes County
South Deschutes County residents have expressed interest in a community plan. The 1979
ComprehensivePlan contained a section on La Pine, which was an Urban Unincorporated
Community. That section has been removed because La Pine incorporated in 2006. The
County remains interested in working with residents on South County issues.
South County is also addressed in the RegionalProblem Solvingfor south County section of
this Plan. In 1998 an extensive public process led to the adoption of this section. It was created
following State regulationsfor regionalcoordination. Over 20 agencies/ organizationswere
involved and the process resulted in memorandums of understanding with IS of those
atencies/ organizations. The primary issue addressed through this process was groundwater
quality, althoughwildfire, wildlife, transportation and other issues were discussed. Some of the
policies adopted were intended to use market forces to guide rural development into La Pine
neighborhoodsthrough a transfer of development rights program.
Follow-up actions introduced to protect groundwater were controversial in the south County
community. An attempt to require specialized nitrogen-reducingseptic systems was defeated in
2009 through a ballot initiative. During the Plan update process, requests were made to
remove the RegionalProblem Solving section from this Plan, claiming it was inaccurate and
outdated. Other residents recommended waiting until local groundwater issues are dealt with
at the State level before initiating a community planningprocess.
The regionalproblem solvingsection has been retained for the following reasons:
An extensive public and agency process was used to write this section
The section was created through a State- defined process and acknowledged as in
compliance with State land use regulations
The section is broader than just septic systems that have generated the most controversy
A new review of south County has not yet been initiated
That said, there is general consensus that there needs to be a new effort to engage the south
County community and create an updated community plan for the area to replace this section.
42 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 146 of 238 - Exhibit B to 6pnn A8J2bI" FDbr
MANAGEMENT SECTION 3. 10 AREA SrEaRc rouaEs
As of 20 10 the Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) is leading an effort to find
solutions for the groundwater quality issues and the County is committed to actively
cooperating in that effort.
Regional Problem Solving for south Deschutes County
In the 1960s and early 1970s, before statewide planningoccurred in Oregon, over 15, 000 lots
were created in subdivisions platted south of Sunriver. Most of these parcels are less than two
acres in size and use on- site septic systems to dispose of sewage. Many of them are located in
areas where development is now restricted, such as floodplains, wetlands and areas with a high
groundwatertable where septic approval is unlikely. Since 1989, Deschutes County has been
the fastest growing county in the state on a percentage basis. The rural character, attractive
location on or near the Deschutes and Little
Deschutes Rivers, and relatively inexpensive land
prices in South Deschutes County have led to a
burgeoningpopulation. The current estimated
populationof up to 16, 000 residents ( over 10, 000
permanent) would make this area the second largest
city in Oregon east of the Cascades were it J` - 1
incorporated, exceeded only by the city of Bend. r
Impacts to groundwater, the source of drinking;
r
water in this area, air quality, wetlands and mule deer
migration and the risks to human life and property
from wildfires have increased significantlyover time.
In 1996, Deschutes County and the Department of
Land Conservation and Developmentrecognized that
significantconsequences could occur from the
pattern of development and began a collaborative
project known as Regional Problem SolvingProject
for South Deschutes County. The RegionalProblem
Solving (RPS) project area encompasses
approximately42 square miles between Sunriver to the north and La Pine to the south, and
includes thousands of small- subdivided lots, and some larger parcels, throughout southern
Deschutes County.
The RIPS project area is a landscape with a geologic history that produced sediments of volcanic
origin that were depositedin a basin over past eons. These conditions are the result of lava
flows from the west ( Cascades) and east ( Newberry) that periodically dammed and shifted the
course of the Deschutes River, creating the La Pine Basin, where the deposition of sediments
has occurred, sometimes buryingolder forests. Volcanic eruptions such as the one at Mt.
Mazama ( Crater Lake) approximately6, 800years ago have contributed significantlyto the
volume of sediment deposited in the basin. The Mt. Mazama eruption is the source of volcanic
material that has formed the predominant soil in the area.
At an elevation of 4200 feet, the climate in the region is one of cool nighttimetemperatures
with a short frost- free summer that averages less than 100 days annually and a winter period of
five or six months where snow can reside on the ground at any time. The rivers receive
DiscHuTn CouNTY
CpoomPKEyHENs~ivE
PLAN -
E201
11 43
Fa e8MSR tXnIDR~nEVfaI1Ta 6 `
Q
1 I
SPEpHC1bUpE4
significantinput from cool spring fed waters. The groundwater is mostly derived from
snowmelt in the highCascades to the west, and is also relatively cool.
The development of thousands of small lots in the RPS project area is therefore superimposed
upon highlypermeable, rapidly draining soils and a highgroundwater table with relatively cold-
water temperatures. The overwhelmingmajority of the lots are served by on- site sewage
disposal systems ( septic systems), includingstandard drain fields, cap and fill systems, and more
recently sand- filter systems. Nitrates, a by- productof septic systems and an indicator of human
pathogens, are poorly retained in the fast drainingsoils and do not easily break down due to
the cool groundwater temperature. As a result, loadingof nitrates occurs in the shallow
groundwateraquiferthat underlies this region. The presence of a highlevel of nitrates is of
great concern because this same aquifer is the source of drinking water for the residents in the
area.
A recent US Geological Survey study of groundwaterin Central Oregon concludes that
groundwater in the area is connected to nearby surface waters, includingthe Deschutes and
Little Deschutes Rivers. Through the sampling of numerous wells in the RPS project area the
Oregon Departmentof Environmental Quality (DEQ) is predicting that nitrate in the
groundwater will approach unsafe levels, principallyas a result of the cumulative effect of
sewage disposal with on- site septic systems, in the near future. Levels of nitrate are elevated in
several localized areas within the RPS project area. However the majority of wells show very
low nitrate levels at this time and surface water contamination has not been documented.
Due to the existing pattern and density of developmentDEQ is predictingthat nitrate levels
will continue to increase over time, even if measures were taken now to alter the development
pattern in the RPS project area. If measures are delayed much longer, the consequences could
become more serious, possibly resultingin unsafe levels of nitrates in groundwater and drinking
water. More definitive information is expected to be available in the next few years, regarding
the timing of nitrate movement in groundwaterand the overall impact of nitrate from septic
systems to groundwater and possiblesurface water pollution. The DEQ and Deschutes County
will complete additional groundwater investigations and testing of innovative sewage treatment
and disposal systems to reduce the impact on groundwater from nitrogen in household sewage,
with grants from the US Environmental Protection Agency. The results from these studies will
not be known for several years. Studyingdifferent approaches to on- site sewage treatment and
disposal may lead to affordable technologicaladvances that can be applied to new and possibly
existing systems. In the meantime, the region will continue to grow and nitrate loadingfrom
on- site systems will continue to increase.
Some measures may need to be implemented in the future to address groundwater pollution
and other impacts that could result from the development of the thousands of small size
subdivided lots in South Deschutes County. The creation of a new neighborhood between La
Pine and Wickiup junction as an alternative to buildingfewer houses on the remaining vacant
small lots appears to hold much promise. A market- driven transferable development credits
program could assist in the redirection of growth from the existing subdivisions into this new
neighborhood.
A developmentstandard or sewage disposal rule that requires an effective lot area of 1.5 acres
for new dwellingsserved by an on- site septic system may need to be considered. The acreage
requirement would need to be based on the long-term balance between nitrate loading from
44
DD~E{SCHUTES
COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 148 of 238 - Exhibit B to (~f41f1aA22T" 6B
MANAGEMENT SECTION 3. 1© AREA SpFaRc FouciEs
septic systems and dilution from precipitation that infiltrates the land. An effective lot area
should include contiguous or non- contiguousvacant land within a specified distance from the
proposed buildingsite.
For these reasons, Deschutes County has determined that it is appropriate to adopt
comprehensive plangoals and policiesto recognize the importance in protecting groundwater
and other resources and the need to continue to work on the RPS project for South
Deschutes County.
Nitrates - Health and groundwaterimpacts, septicsystem impacts and studies
High levels of nitrates in drinking water are a cause of methemoglobinemia (blue baby
syndrome) in infants and have been linked to cancer and weakeningof immune system in the
elderly. Recent epidemiologicstudies indicate that chronic long-term exposure to low levels
2.5 mg/L) of nitrates can increase the risks for certain types of cancers. Nitrate levels are often
used as an indicator for the transmission capabilities of other pathogenicagents. Surface waters
are very sensitive to eutrophication by the addition of nutrients; nitrate is an indicator of
nutrient loading.
A natural background level of nitrates would be less than I mg/L. The Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) has set the safe water drinkingstandard ( Maximum Contaminant Level or MCL)
for nitrate at 10 mg/L. The DEQ is required to declare a region a Groundwater Management
Area if nitrate concentration reaches 7 mg/L. This would require a plan to protect and restore
groundwater quality. Deschutes County Planningand Environmental Health are only slightly
ahead by starting and developingtheir plans proactively.
On- site septic systems are the only significant source of nitrates in the La Pine sub- basin. The
La Pine sub- basin has many conditions that allow for little denitrifiation of wastewater to
occur: rapidly drainingsoil, shallow, well oxygenated groundwater, very short growing season,
cold temperature, not much hydraulic gradient. Most of the development has taken place in the
very bottom of the sub- basin over shallow groundwater and on small lots served by wells from
an unconfined aquifer.
In 1980-81 contamination of the aquifer from septic systems had alreadyoccurred in the La
Pine core area. ( La Pine Aquifer ManagementPlan, Century West, 1982). A community sewer
system was required to remedy the situation. A 1995 well monitoring study by DEQ showed
that after I I years of sewer, the nitrate levels in the La Pine core area had receded but were
still at " unsafe levels." This is an indication that the recovery time for the aquifer is lengthy.
The 1995 monitoring study also revealed the existence of five areas in the RPS project area,
not including the core area of La Pine, where nitrate levels are greater than usual background
levels. Nitrate levels are as high as 4.8 to 5.9 mg/L in three of these areas and as high as 3 mg/L
in the other two.
The 1995 monitoring study was part of a modeling effort by the DEQ to estimate the impact of
septic systems on the groundwater. The initial results of the model indicate that at existing
1994) developmentthe aquifer would reach nitrate levels of 7 mg/I by 2005. Since the
collection of samples in 1994 there are approximately 700 additional residences in the RPS
project area using on- site septic systems. The model is limited because it is two- dimensional
and does not account for flow in or out of its boundaries.
DEscHuTEs COUNTY COMPREHENSIVEPLAN - 2011 45
F§ 4VWM9RTRAA dE i~&n gN2bJ9 3srEapcrouaEs
A grant from the US Environmental Protection Agencywill allow significantwork to begin in
1999 to help with a solution to the problem of highnitrate levels. The primary purpose of the
grant is to study new technologiesin on- site septic systems. Part of the grant will be used to
continue increasing the groundwater monitoring network and complete additional analysisof
nitrate movement in the groundwater using a three dimensional model.
The innovative septic system program was started in 1998 through the RPS project and DEQ
grant funding and is expected to increase significantly with the new federal grant. The purpose
is to try new technologiesthat appear to be capable of reducingnitrate levels. Besides nitrate
reduction there are many other aspects of new technologythat need to be examined before
widespreadapplications for the general public can occur.
Over the past five years the USGS has developed a groundwater flow model of the entire
Upper Deschutes Basin. The model will be used as the basis for an analysisof the impacts of
nitrates from on- site systems to help answer the following three questions:
Where should additional monitoring wells be set up for continuous monitoring of nitrate
plumes from residential development?
What density does development need to be set at to minimize impact on groundwater
quality?
What variations of impact due to location are there in the La Pine sub- basin?
The DEQ rules require a minimum of an acre for standard system and a half- acre for pressure
or sand filters in rapidlydrainingsoils. This is a statewide rule and the authors were probably
looking at rainfall amount from a typicalWillamette Valleyyear to provide dilution. Mixing
wastewater from a typicalsingle-family residence with the rechargeprovidedby yearly
precipitation in Southern Deschutes County, it requires 2.5 acres for a standard system and 1.5
acres for a sand filter to maintain a rechargeconcentration at or below 7 mg/l. This estimate is
on the conservative side because it does not account for inflow, outflow, or upflow from other
areas.
Areas such as Fall River Estates, Wild River and Ponderosa Pines do not require as much
acreage to achieve an adequate amount of mixing and dilution of nitrates because they are
located in areas of higherprecipitation at the western edge of the aquifer. Also, the aquifer
gradient is steeper resultingin more dilution due to highergroundwater flow rates. La Pine and
portions of Oregon Water Wonderland and StageStop Meadows subdivisions served by sewer
systems are also not contributing to the overall nitrate-loadingproblem in the region.
Legislation
In October 1998, Congress passed legislationto assist Deschutes County in purchasinga S40-
acre tract of land from the Bureau of Land Management. This tract is located between La Pine
and Wickiup junction, west of Highway 97 and east of Huntington Road. A sewer line between
the communities of La Pine and Wickiup junction runs through the property. This property is
intended to be the site of a new neighborhood that will be serviced by sewer and water
systems, and pavedroads. Residential use will predominate, although community needs such as
a senior center, library, assisted livingfacility and limited neighborhood commercial uses may be
developed. A designprocess known as a " charrette" occurred in November 1998. This design
workshop occurred over a three-day period with the participation of over 80 people from the
community.
46 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 150 of 238 - Exhibit B to 6rcgm2Jt2b d9yM
MANAGEMENT SECTION 3. 10 AREA SPECIFIC rouaEs
The initial designencompasses a neighborhoodprimarily residential in character with sewer,
water and a road network of paved streets and access roads without curbs. A setback of 300
feet from Highway 97 has been incorporated into the eastern boundary of the design. A senior
center and assisted living facilities are included in the southern part of the property adjacent to
the community of La Pine. This preliminary designwill be evaluated to determine lot sizes and
density, development costs, phasing of development and the ability to use transferable
developmentcredits as a tool for the overall development of the new neighborhood.
TransferableDevelopmentCredits
A TDC ( Transferable Development Credit) Programhas been developed to redirect some of
the future development of residential dwellingsfrom lots served by on- site sewage disposal
septic) systems to the residentiallyzoned districts in the Neighborhood PlanningArea in the
La Pine UUC that will be connected to water and sewer systems. A TDC is a severable interest
in real property that represents the right to construct a single-family dwelling and an on- site
sewage disposal system. The TDC program code has been adopted in compliance with the
provisions of ORS 94. 531.
The essential elements of the TDC program are to be codified in DCC Title 11, County
Owned Land and Property, of the County Code. The TDC program is intended to redirect
some of the future residential growth from existing subdivisions in South Deschutes County,
also identified as the " sending area" where TDC's are allocated to eligiblelots, into the
Neighborhood PlanningArea, also referred to as the " receiving area" where TDC's are
required to be redeemed based on a net developableacreage formula. If successful the TDC
program will reduce the overall impact from developmentin flood plains, wetlands, deer
migration corridors and areas susceptible to groundwater pollution from nitrates. It will also
help to maintain open space and preserve the rural character of the area by reducingthe
overall density of developmentthat would otherwise exist in the future if a dwellingwere built
on every legallot
In the sending area the TDC program will operate in a voluntary,
market- driven manner. Those property owners who choose to sell their
TDC's will retain ownership of the underlying land on which certain
uses, such as camping, wood cutting, vegetation management,
agriculturaluse and construction of a small storage structure will be
allowed. A Conservation Easement will be placedon the property that
will prohibit the construction of a single-family dwelling and on- site
sewage disposal system on the property. Property owners who sell their
TDC's and enter into a Conservation Easement restricting future uses
on their property may elect to sell the deed for the underlying property
to a willing buyer.
Public Participation
RGRONAL iROBlGAi1 SOLV"
FOR SOVTW OiSCWVW COUNTY
FINAL REPORT
FOR
THE OREGON LAND CONSERVATION &
July 1999
DESCHUTES COUNTY
COMMUNITY DEMOPMENT DEPART MEW
E
The RPS project has involved all aspects of the community, includingproperty owners, interest
groups, public agenciesand government at the local, state and federal levels. Over 20
stakeholder meetings and 5 public forums were held. Eightnewsletters and other mailings have
been sent out to an extensive mailing list of property owners and other interested individuals,
community organizations and local governments. The local press has covered this topic with a
CDESCHUTES
CouNTY
CpoomPREH[Nssm
PLAA
5-E201119
Pa e J R~T L3SRtXfllW ibEVrC]iARgN = pU35rECINC
rouC1Es
number of articles and news reports on several occasions. According to written surveys the
top three priorities for the residents of South Deschutes County are: 1) to retain open space
to maintain the rural character of the area; 2) to not allow septic systems in areas of high
groundwater; and, 3) to allow for experimentation with alternative methods of sewage disposal.
Among the least favored options was extendingsewer throughout the region due to the high
cost associated with this expansion. However, several small sewer systems exist in the region
and peoplecommented and testified at public meetings and hearingsthat the option of using
sewer systems to dispose of sewage should continue to be explored.
To ensure that public involvement was as great as possible regardingproposed amendments in
1998 to the comprehensive plan and zoning ordinance, an additional newsletter was mailed that
contained a notice of public hearingsbefore the Deschutes County PlanningCommission and
the Board of County Commissioners. The newsletter also described various aspects of the RPS
program, characterized design elements of the new neighborhood as a result of the design
charette and encouraged people to attend a community workshop held in early December to
learn more about the amendments. This newsletter was mailed to over 5, 000property owners,
includingthe owners of all lots in the RPS project area which are zoned RR-10 and less than 2
acres in size, and the stakeholders, interest groups, agencies, etc., who had previously
participatedor expressedan interest in the RPS project. More detailed information about the
RPS project including information on nitrates, experimental on- site technology, alternative
solutions, transferable development credits and a bibliography of the studies and other sources
of information used to analyze the region's problems and to formulate solutions was made
available at the hearings.
LCDC Acknowledgement
In September 2000 the Oregon Land Conservation and DevelopmentCommission ( LCDC)
conducted a hearing and approved the County's request to expand the La Pine UUC to include
the area formerly recognized as the Wickiup Junction Rural Service Center and the New
Neighborhood area. The Neighborhood area includes a tract of land the County purchased
from the Bureau of Land Managementand a privately owned parcel. LCDC also approved the
County's comprehensive plandesignationand rezoning of the area added to the La Pine UUC
from resource lands zoned exclusive farm use to various planningdistricts that allow for the
creation of a residential subdivision served by municipal water and sewer systems and paved
roads.
Other Area Specific Policies
OregonMilitarySite
The Oregon Military Departmenthas real property interests in lands outside Redmond that is
used for military training. Concerns were raised by that departmentthat the noise of their
operations could disturb neighboringproperties and the use of the land could be questioned.
Developingan overlay zone that requires the military be notified of new development and new
developmentbe notified of the military's right to continue operations, would protect the
interests of both parties.
Deschutes Junction
A community planwas initiated for the Deschutes function area, which includes lands
designated Rural Industrial and Rural Commercial. There has been some discussion about
4e
DD~ESCHUTES
COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 152 of 238 - Exhibit B to ~ fQIf1aRC@ U( J3
MANAGEMENT SECTION 3. 10 AptEA SREcinc PouaEs
whether this area should have been designated as a Rural Service Center duringthe
unincorporated community evaluations.
As of 2010 policies for Deschutes junction are beingprocessed in a separate but concurrent
legislative process and will be incorporated into this Plan when adopted.
Crooked River Ranch
Crooked River Ranch, a rural subdivision located between the Deschutes and Crooked Rivers,
straddles Deschutes and Jeffersoncounties. It has the largesthomeowner association in Oregon
and contains approximately 4, 000people. Access to this development occurs in Deschutes
County, underscoringthe importance of coordinatingregularlywith its residents and Jefferson
County to assure safe, convenient travel routes.
S. Deschutes/N. Klamath Groundwater Protection Project
The Oregon Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ), the US Geological Survey and
Deschutes County have determined that the safetyof the groundwater in southern Deschutes
and northern Klamath counties is threatened by nitrate contamination from traditional onsite
septic wastewater treatment systems. The groundwateraquiferprovidesthe drinking water
source for most residents in this area. As of 2010, the DEQ and a steering committee of local
area residents are now working with the community to And the best way to protect the
groundwater.
DEESCHUTES COUNTY
ComPR~(EyH~EpWssm
PLAN- 2011 ~,
y~
F9 "8MSR CXf11DR-ti I61M,1 SRJ AJ9" SPEpRC
POUaEs
sect~ow 3. 20 . 4reA specLf~c Po~~c~es
Goals and Policies
Goal I Create area specific land use policies and/ or regulations when
requested by a community and only after an extensive public process.
Policy3. 10.1 Maintain a list of communities interested in area specificpoliciesand as
resources permit, initiate public processes to address local issues.
South Deschutes County
Policy3. 10.2 Developa south county community plan and adopt it as a subsection of this Plan.
Policy3. 10.3 Supportthe leadershipof the Departmentof Environmental Quality in working
with the community to address groundwater protection issues.
Policy3. 10.4 To the maximum extent allowed by law, reinvest net proceeds from the
development or sale of County-owned real property in the La Pine
NeighborhoodPlanningArea, now in the City of La Pine, into future
improvements such as roads, parks, open space developmentand maintenance,
publicbuildingsand on- site and oft- site water and wastewater facility
improvements or expansion, in the City of La Pine or Regional Problem Solving
study area.
RegionalProblem Solving
Goal 2 Preserve water and air quality, reduce wildfire hazards and protect
wildlife habitat.
Goal 3 Ensure that domestic water derived from groundwater meets safe
drinking water standards.
Goal 4 Develop an equitable, market- driven system, that reduces the
potential development of existing lots In fl©© dplains, wetlands, mule
deer migration corridors and areas susceptible to groundwater
pollution.
Goal 5 Create a new neighborhood, primarily residential in character,
between La Pine and Wickiup junction, that provides services
efficiently, sustains economic development and reduces adverse
Impacts to groundwater quality in South Deschutes County.
Goal 6 Explore innovative sewage treatment and disposal methods.
Policy3. 10.5 The County shall continue to work with landowners, citizens, community
organizations and governmental agenciesat the local, state and federal level to.
a. Continue collaborative work on the RegionalProblem Solvingproject.
b. Develop, review and implement land use policiesand development standards
that will ensure that agreed-upon solutions from the RegionalProblem Solving
project are enacted to the maximum extent possible.
c. Acquire land from the Bureau of Land Managementbetween La Pine and
Wickiup junction, west of Highway 97, to develop as a new neighborhood.
so
DD~ESCHUTES
COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 154 of 238 - Exhibit B to u En @ ZOTI=~CJ3 MANAGEMENT SECTION 3. 10 AREA $P anc FOUCIES
d. Conduct feasibility studies regardingdevelopmentof a new neighborhood.
Such studies may include, but are not limited to: a master designplan,
developmentcosts and fundingoptions, water and sewer system feasibility,
traffic impacts, and zoning codes and governance issues.
e. Install and monitor innovative on- site sewage treatment and disposal (septic)
systems on privatelyowned parcels in the Regional Problem Solvingproject
area as part of the La Pine National Decentralized Wastewater Treatment
Demonstration Project funded by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
and in cooperation with the Oregon Departmentof Environmental Quality.
f. Work cooperatively with the U.S. Geological Survey and Oregon Water
Resources Departmentduring well water samplingand analysis to advance
three- dimensional groundwater and nutrient fate and transport modeling in
the south Deschutes County area.
Policy3. 10.6 The County shall implement and monitor in accordance with DCC 23. 44.030( D),
a Transferable Development Credit program as a means to redirect potential
growth away from residential lots in subdivisions throughout the region into the
La Pine NeighborhoodPlanningArea. The County shall establish a Transfer of
DevelopmentCredit Review Committee to assist in analyzingand
recommendingany changesdeemed appropriate to the Transfer of Development
Credit program.
Policy 3. 10.7 The County shall continue to evaluate means to reduce nitrate loadingfrom on-
site sewage disposal systems by exploring innovative on- site sewage treatment
and disposal technology, retrofitting of existing substandard or inappropriately
located disposal systems, expansion of sewer systems, development of standards
such as an effective lot area or variable lot area requirements, or other measures
that will accomplish the goals.
Policy3. 10.8 New residential subdivisions and partitions in the La Pine Urban Unincorporated
Community shall be connected to a community water system and either the La
Pine SpecialSewer District sewage treatment system or a community waste
water treatment facility that meets Oregon Department of Environmental
Quality standards.
Oregon Military Site
Policy3. 10.9 Support an overlayzone for property owned and/or utilized by the Oregon
Military Departmentto protect the military site and neighboring properties from
noise and land use conflicts.
Regional Coordination
Policy3. 10.10 Coordinate with JeffersonCounty and Crooked River Ranch residents as
needed.
Deschutes junction
These policiesare goingthough a separate process and will be incorporatedwhen adopted.
MwHUTEs COUNTY COM MENSIVE PLAN - 2011 51
F9 e
EW&'- hgRTan ftE JNZbig"S"aNC PouaES
chApters PriwtiAr~ R.e ferewces
References'
1. Oregon Department of Land Conservation and Development. Goal 7: Areas Subjectto
Natural Disasters and Hazards. Oregon's Statewide PlanningGoals and Guidelines.
2. Oregon Departmentof Land Conservation and Development. Goal 8: Recreation
Needs. Oregon's Statewide Planning Goals and Guidelines.
3. Oregon Department of Land Conservation and Development. Goal 9: Economic
Development. Oregon's Statewide PlanningGoals and Guidelines.
4. Oregon Department of Land Conservation and Development. Goal 10: Housing.
Oregon's Statewide PlanningGoals and Guidelines.
S. Oregon Department of Land Conservation and Development. Goal 11: Public Facilities
and Services. Oregon's Statewide PlanningGoals and Guidelines.
6. Oregon Department of Land Conservation and Development. Goal 12: Transportation.
Oregon's Statewide PlanningGoals and Guidelines.
7. Central Oregon RegionalHousingAuthority ( Housing Works) website at
http:// www.oregonhousingyvorks.ore
8. Economic Developmentfor Central Oregon website at
http:// www.edcoinfo. com
9. ImprovingDeschutes County's Competitiveness: Business Location and Retention
Factors. A report by Headwaters Economics in partnership with Economic
Developmentfor Central Oregon. July 2010.
10. Oregon Departmentof Land Conservation and Development. Natural Hazards
Program. 2003
11. Oregon Departmentof Land Conservation and Development. Planningfor Natural
Hazards: Oregon Technical Resource Guide. 2002
12. 2006 Deschutes County Natural Hazards MitigationPlan
13. 2010 Deschutes County Natural Hazards Mitigation Plan
14. Deschutes County Community Wildfire Protection Plans
IS. Upper Deschutes Fire Learning Network. Upper Deschutes Basin website at
http:// www.tncfire. org
16. D.R. Sherrod, L. G. Mastin, W.E Scott, S.P. Schilling. Volcano Hazards at Newberry
Volcano, Oregon. U.S. GeologicalSurveyOpen-File Report 97- 513
17. W. E. Scott, R. M. Iverson, S.P. Schilling, B .J. Fisher. Volcano Hazards in the Three Sisters
Region, Oregon. UISI Geological Survey Open-File Report 99- 437
The references listed are provided for the convenience of the pubic and are not leply adopted into this Plan.
52 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 156 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance 2011- 003CHAmR
3 Rutuu. GRowTH MANAGErerrr REFERENCES
IS. Oregon Revised Statute 197. 435-197. 467 Siting of Destination Resorts
19. Oregon Administrative Rules Chapter 660 particularly:
a. 660- 008 Interpretation of Goal 10 Housing
b. 660. 009 Economic Development
c. 660- 011 Public Facilities
d. 660- 012 Transportation
2
The references listed are provided for the convenience of the public and are not legally adopted into this Plan.
DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVEPLAN - 2011 53
3~ RI~tSbEi~ l 1- 003
u'
e,V
a
o~~ GON1PR6ff6N51V~
PLAN LtTLfAT6
Page 158 of 238 - Exhibit 8 to Ordinance 205 5- 003
SeOUOVAI.4.1. 1V tr00! "0t%0w
Background
A major emphasis of Oregon's land use planningprogram is directing new developmentinto
urban areas. Statewide Planning Goal 14, Urbanization, requires cities, in cooperation with
counties, to create Urban Growth Boundaries ( UGBs). The UGBs are legal lines that contain
lands that are anticipated to urbanize over a 20- yearperiod. UGBs allow cities to adequately
plan for future urban facilities and services. State laws require that UGBs be adopted by both
the city and the county.
Besides the UGBs which define the land needed for city expansion over 20 years, some cities
adopt Urban Reserve Areas ( URAs), which define land needed beyonda 20 year horizon,
typically representing an additional 10 to 30 year land supply. By adopting an URA a city can
better plan for expansion and growth. Like UGBs, URAs are done in a partnership between a
county and the city.
Deschutes County has four incorporated cities. Bend, Redmond and Sisters were incorporated
before 1979. The City of La Pine incorporated on November 7, 2006. Bend, Redmond and
Sisters' Comprehensive Plans are coordinated with the County. Certain elements are adopted
into the County's. In addition, the cities and the County maintain urban growth area zoning
ordinances and cooperative agreements for mutuallyadministering the unincorporated
urbanizing areas. These areas are located outside city limits but within UGBs. As of 2010, La
Pine has adopted a Comprehensive Plan and UGB. Until La Pine adopts its own land use
regulations, County land use regulations will continue to be applied inside the City limits though
a joint management agreement.
In addition to cities and the associated UGBs and URAs, there are rural locations around the
County that contain urban level development. These areas generally existed before the Oregon
land use system was enacted in the early 1970s. In 1994 the Land Conservation and
DevelopmentCommission wrote a new Oregon Administrative Rule ( OAR), 660-22, to classify
and regulatethese unincorporated communities. The OAR created four categories of
unincorporatedcommunities and required the County to evaluate existing rural developments
under the new Rule.
Purpose
The Urban Growth Managementchapter, in concert with the other chapters of this Plan,
specifies how Deschutes County will work with cities and unincorporated communities to
accommodate growth while preserving rural character and resource lands.
The following issues are covered in this chapter:
Urbanization ( Section 4.2)
Unincorporated Communities Overview ( Section 4.3)
Sunriver Urban Unincorporated Community (Section 4.4)
Terrebonne Rural Community Plan (Section 4.5)
2 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 159 of 238 - Exhibit B to OrdinaTiC@ N V8" GROWTH MANAGEMENT SECTION 4.1 INTRODUCTION
Tumalo Rural Community Plan (Section 4.6)
Black Butte Ranch and Inn of the 7' Mountain/Widgi Creek Rural Resorts ( Section 4.7)
Rural Service Centers ( Section 4.8)
Goal 14 recognizes the following.
Statewide Planning Goal 14 Urbanization
To provide for an orderly and efficient transition from rural to urban land use, to
accommodate urban population and urban employmentinside urban growth
boundaries, to ensure efficient use of land, and to providefor livable communities."
Excerpt from Goal 14 Planning Guidelines
Plans should designatesufficient amounts of urbanizable land to accommodate the
need for further urban expansion, taking into account ( 1) the growth policyof the area,
2) the needs of the forecastpopulation; (3) the carryingcapacityof the planning area;
and (4) open space and recreational needs."
DEscHUTES COUNTY
CpOyyM~PRRWENSIVA
PLAN - 2011
µ~
p Par@1E~UVL3RtXf1I[ 31t0 Vfaln@~~~~-UU3©
Seoti ovt, 4. 2 Lotrbava' ZAti ow
Background
This section describes the coordination between the County and the cities of Bend, La Pine,
Redmond and Sisters on Urban Growth Boundaries ( UGBs) and Urban Reserve Areas ( URAs).
Statewide PlanningGoal 2 recognizes the importance of coordinatingland use plans.
City, county, state and federal agency and special district plans and actions
related to land use shall be consistent with the comprehensiveplans of cities and
counties and regionalplansadopted under ORS Chapter 268."
Oregon Revised Statute 197. 015(5) goes further to define comprehensive plancoordination.
A plan is "coordinated" when the needs of all levels of governments, semipublic
and private agenciesand the citizens of Oregon have been considered and
accommodated as much as possible."
Population
An important basis for coordinatingwith cities is adopted populationprojections. Wavingan
estimate of anticipated population is the first step to planningfor future growth and
conservation. ORS 195. 025(1) requires counties to coordinate local plans and population
forecasts. The County oversees the preparation of a population forecast in close collaboration
with cities. This is important because the population of the County has increased significantlyin
recent decades and a coordinated approach allows cities to ensure managedgrowth over time.
Table 4. 2.1 - Population Growth in Deschutes County 1980 to 2000
Sources 1980 1900 2000 2010
PopulationResearch Center July I estimates WOO 75. 600 116,600 172,050
US Census Bureau April I counts 62, 142T74-,958 115,36 157,73T
Source: As noted above
In 1996 Bend, Redmond, Sisters and the County reviewed recent population forecasts from the
Portland State UniversityCenter Population and Research Center ( PRC) and U.S. Census
Bureau, Departmentof Transportation, Woods and Poole, Bonneville Power Administration
and Department of Administrative Services Office of Economic Analysis. After reviewing these
projections, all local governments adopted a coordinated population forecast. It was adopted by
Deschutes County in 1998 by Ordinance 98. 084.
The results of the 2000 decennial census and subsequent population estimates prepared by the
PRC revealed that the respective populations of the County and its incorporated cities were
growing faster than anticipated under the 1998 coordinated forecast. The cites and the County
re- engagedin a coordination process between 2002 and 2004 that culminated with the County
adopting a revised population forecast that projected populationto the year 2025. It was
adopted by Ordinance 2004-012 and upheld by the Land Use Board of Appealson March 28,
2005.
The following table displays the 2004 coordinated population forecast for Deschutes County
and the UGBs of the cities of Bend, Redmond, and Sisters.
4 [
H
DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 161 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordina fTC@niI IIf
N GRowTH MANAGEMENT SECTION 4.2 UIIEANIZATION
Table 4. 2.2 - Coordinated Population Forecast 2000 to 2025
Year Bend UGB Redmond UGB Sisters UGB Uni
Co
rrorrated
Cunty
Total County
2000 52, 800 15, 505 975 47, 320 116,600
2005 69,004 19, 249 1, 768 53, 032 143,053
2010 81, 242 23, 897 2, 306 59,127 166,572
2015 91, 158 29,667 2, 694 65, 924 189,443
2020 100,646 36, 831 3, 166 73,502 214,145
2025 109,389 45, 724 3, 47 81, 951 240,811
Source: 2004 Coordinated Population Forecast for Deschutes County
The process through which the County and the cities coordinated to developthe 2000-2025
coordinated forecast is outlined in the report titled " Deschutes County Coordinated
Population Forecast 2000- 2025: Findings in Support of Forecast."
The fourth city in Deschutes County is the City of La Pine. Incorporated on November 7,
2006, the City of La Pine's 2006 population estimate of 1, 590was certified by PRC on
December 15, 2007. As a result of La Pine's incorporation, Deschutes County updatedits
Coordinated Population Forecast with Ordinance 2009- 006.
The purpose of this modification was to adopt a conservative 20 year population forecast for
the City of La Pine that could be used by city officials and the Oregon Department of Land
Conservation and Developmentto estimate its future land need and a UGB.
The following table displays the coordinated population forecast for Deschutes County, the
UGBs of the cities of Bend, Redmond, and Sisters, and La Pine from 2000 to 2025. By extending
the growth rate to the year 2025, La Pine's population will be 2, 352. The non- urban
unincorporated population decreases by 2, 352from its original projection of 81, 951, to 79, 599.
Table 4. 2.3 - Coordinated Population Forecast 1000 to 2025, Including La Pine
Year
Bend
UGB
Redmond
UGB
Sisters
UGB
La pine
UGB
Unincorporated
County
Total County
2000 52,800 15, 505 975 47, 320 116,600
2005 69, 004 19, 49 1, 768 53, 032 143,053
2010 81,242 23, 897 2, 306 1, 697 57, 430 166,5n
2015 91,1 8 2907 2, 694 1, 892 64, 032 189,443
2020 100,646 36,831 3, 166 2, 110 71, 392 214,145
2025 109,389 4 , 4 3, 747 2, 35 79, 599 240, I
Source: 2004 Coordinated oFx atian for Deschutes Co unty - undated 200 9
2030 Population Estimate
This Comprehensive Plan is intended to manage growth and conservation in the
unincorporated areas of the County until 2030. Because the official population forecast extends
only to 2025, County staff used conservative average annual growth rates from the adopted
population forecast to estimate population out to 2030. The following table estimates
Deschutes County populationby extending the adopted numbers out an additional five years.
DESCHUTES COUNTY CompmENSNE PLAN - 2011
G9a Ud~1~2°~ x i i "f~'~8 3' d~nJ rV88dY6bT'Z
T' 0N
Table 4. 2.4 - Deschutes County 2030 Population Forecast
Year
Bend Redmond Sisters La Pine Unincorporated Total CountyUGB UGB UGB UGB County
2030 119,009 51, 733 4, 426 2, 632 88, 748 266, 538
Source: C ounty estimates based on the 2004 Coordinated Peculation e ast as shown below
Bend's average annual growth rate from 2025 to 2030 is 1. 70%
Redmond's average annual growth rate from 2025 to 2030 is 2. 50%
Sisters' based their population on forecasted rates of buddinggrowth, residential housing units, and persons per dwelling unit
La Fines avenge annual growth nu from 2025 to 2030 is 2. 20%
Deschutes Counts unincorporated area avenge annual growth rate from 2025 to 2030 is 2. 20%
As the pie chart below indicates, if population occurs as forecasted, 67X of the County's
populationwill reside in urban areas by 2030.
In 2030
Unincorporated Figure 4.1 Deschutes County 2030
Area BMW Estimated Population33% 45% `
i
Sisters
2%
I.
I
La fine - Redmond
1% 19%
Such growth will undoubtedly require strategicallymanagingthe provision of public services and
maintaining adequate amounts of residential, commercial and industrial lands. Growth pressures
will also require programmatic approaches to maintain open spaces, natural resources, and
functional ecosystems that help define the qualities of Deschutes County.
Urban Growth Boundary Amendments
Bend
The City of Bend legislatively amended its UGB as part of a periodic review acknowledgmentin
December 2004. The Bend City Council and the Board of County Commissioners adopted
concurrent ordinances that expanded the Bend UGB by 500 acres and satisfied a 20 year
demand for industrial land.
In July 2007, the Bend-La Pine School District received approvals to expand the City of Bend
UGB to include two properties for the location of two elementaryschools, one at the Pine
Nursery, the other on Skyliner Road.
Sisters
The City of Sisters legislatively amended its UGB in September 2005 when its City Council and
the Board of County Commissioners adopted respective ordinances. The Sisters UGB
expansion covered 53 acres and satisfied a 20 year demand for residential, commercial, light
industrial, and public facility land. In March 2009, Sisters amended their UGB to facilitate the
establishment of a 4- acre fire training facility for the Sisters/Camp Sherman Fire District.
6 ,
DN
ESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 163 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordina cH~tTCeL~pRlI IIfT, i~ ~
GROWTH MANAGEMENT SECTION 4.2 URBANIZATION
Redmond
The City of Redmond legislativelyamended its UGB in August2006 when its City Council and
the Board of County Commissioners adoptedrespective ordinances. The Redmond UGB
expansion covered 2, 299acres and satisfied a 20 year demand for residential and neighborhood
commercial land.
La Pine
In 2010 La Pine adopted its first Comprehensive Plan. La Pine established a UGB that matches
the city limits, because the City contains sufficient undeveloped land for future housing,
commercial and industrial needs over a 20- yearperiod. The Plan map includes land use
designationsintended to provide an arrangement of uses to ensure adequate and efficient
provision of public infrastructure for all portions of the City and UGB.
Urban Reserve Area
Redmond
In December 2005, Redmond City Council and the Board of County Commissioners adopted a
5, 661 acre URA for the City. It is the first URA in Central Oregon because most cities find
planningfarther into the future than the 20- year UGB timeframe, challenging.
Coordination
As noted above, Statewide Goal 2 and ORS promote land use planningcoordination. The
purposes of the urbanization goals and policies in this section are to provide the link between
urban and rural areas, and to provide some basic parameters within which the urban areas of
Deschutes County can develop, although the specific comprehensive planfor each community
remains the prevailing document for guiding growth in its respective area. These policies
permit the County to review each city's comprehensive plan to ensure effective coordination.
The Redmond and Deschutes CountyCommunityDevelopmentDepartments received the Oregon
Chapterof American PlanningAssociation's ( OAPA) ProfessionalAchievement in PlanningAward in
2006 for the "Redmond Urban Reserve Area / Urban Growth Boundary
ExpansionProject."
The followingquote taken from the OregonChapterof the American
PlanningAssociation's 2006 Awards Programshows why the Redmond
CommunityDevelopmentDeportmentwas chosen for this award.
An outstandingeffort to address Redmond's rapid populationgrowth,
includingthe successfuldesignationof an Urban Reserve and the
imminent designationof an Urban Growth Boundary, a " Framework
Plan" with a requirementfor master planning, and the establishment of
Great NeighborhoodPrinciples."
DESCHUTES CouNTY COM REHENSPAPLAN - 2011
XW
Sect%ow 4. 2 Lkrbaw1'zatLow POLLOLes
Goals and Policies
Goal I Coordinate with cities, special districts and stakeholders to support
urban growth boundaries and urban reserve areas that provide an
orderly and efficient transition between urban and rural lands.
Policy 4. 2.1 Participate in the processes initiated by cities in Deschutes County to create
and/ or amend their urban growth boundaries.
Policy4. 2.2 Promote and coordinate the use of urban reserve areas.
Policy 4. 2.3 Review the idea of using rural reserves.
Goal 2 Coordinate with cities, special districts and stakeholders on urban
growth area zoning for lands inside urban growth boundaries but
outside city boundaries.
Policy4. 2.4 Use urban growth area zoning to coordinate land use decisions inside urban
growth boundaries but outside the incorporated cities.
Policy 4. 2.5 Negotiateintergovernmental agreements to coordinate with cities on land use
inside urban growth boundaries and outside the incorporated cities.
Policy 4. 2.6 Develop urban growth area zoning with consideration of the type, timing and
location of public facilities and services provision consistent with city plans.
Policy4. 2.7 Adopt by reference the comprehensive plans of Bend, La Pine, Redmond and
Sisters, as the policy basis for implementing land use plans and ordinances in
each city's urban growth boundary.
Goal 3 Coordinate with cities, special districts and stakeholders on policies
and zoning for lands outside urban growth boundaries but inside
urban reserve areas.
Policy 4. 2.8 Designatethe Redmond Urban Reserve Area on the County Comprehensive
Plan Mapand regulateit through a Redmond Urban Reserve Area (RURA)
Combining Zone in Deschutes County Code, Title 18.
Policy4. 2.9 In cooperation with the City of Redmond adopt a RURA Agreement consistent
with their respective comprehensive plans and the requirements of Oregon
Administrative Rule 660- 021-0050 or its successor.
Policy 4. 2. 10 The following land use policies guidezoning in the RURA.
a. Plan and zone RURA lands for rural uses, in a manner that ensures the
orderly, economic and efficient provision of urban services as these lands are
brought into the urban growth boundary.
b. New parcels shall be a minimum of ten acres.
c. Until lands in the RURA are brought into the urban growth boundary, zone
changesor plan amendments shall not allow more intensive uses or uses that
8
CF
DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 165 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordina kmii I- WITS- -
N GROWTH MANAGEMENT SECTION 4.2 UFMANIZATION
generate more traffic, than were allowed prior to the establishment of the
RURA.
d. For Exclusive Farm Use zones, partitions shall be allowed based on state law
and the County Zoning Ordinance.
e. New arterial and collector rights-of-way in the RURA shall meet the right-of-
way standards of Deschutes County or the City of Redmond, whichever is
greater, but be physically constructed to Deschutes County standards.
f. Protect from development existing and future arterial and collector rights-of-
way, as designated on the County's Transportation System Plan.
g. A single familydwellingon a legalparcel is permitted if that use was permitted
before the RURA designation.
Policy 4. 2.1 1 Collaborate with the City of Redmond to assure that the County-owned 1, 800
acres in the RURA is master planned before it is incorporated into Redmond's
urban growth boundary.
DiscmuT s C© UNTYCOMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
fteqW&M x W i'~'' ' dTn&VeQ° djy f'~ uznnoN
SeatWV. - 4. 3 L. tw&vuoorporateol Cowl mkiA LtLes
Background
Besides the four incorporated cities in Deschutes County, there are a number of
unincorporated communities. These consist of areas developedwith urban uses in rural areas.
Generally, unincorporated communities were developed prior to the Oregon planningsystem
and recognizedas rural service centers in the 1979 version of this plan. Subsequently, to
control their growth, the State initiated unincorporated community classifications and
regulationsto define allowable uses.
The 1979 comprehensive plan designated the following rural service centers ( RSC): Alfalfa,
Brothers, Hampton, Millican, La Pine, Whistle Stop, Wickiup Junction, Terrebonne, Wild Hunt,
Tumalo, Deschutes Junction and Deschutes River Woods. These areas were designated in that
plan as exception areas from Goals 3, Agricultural Lands and 4, Forest Lands. Zoning under the
ComprehensivePlan allowed for a mix of residential and commercial uses to support nearby
residential developments. Until the early 1990s the scope of those uses was never much of an
issue since there was little developmentpressure.
In 1994 LCDC adopted a new administrative rule, OAR 660.22 to clarify what uses could be
allowed in "unincorporated communities" without violatingStatewide PlanningGoals I I and 14
relatingto public facilities and urbanization. The rule identifies four different kinds of rural
communities as shown below.
Urban Unincorporated Community (UUC)
Rural Community
Resort Community
Rural Service Center ( RSC)
In response, Deschutes County reviewed its RSCs to determine which areas fit those four
classifications. In addition to the original RSCs listed above, additional developmentswere
identified as communities for review includingBlack Butte Ranch, Inn of the Seventh
Mountain/Widgi Creek and Sunriver.
In reviewing these areas for conformance with OAR 660-22, some did not fit within the
parameters of any of the four unincorporatedcommunity definitions and were instead zoned
Rural Commercial or Rural Industrial. These areas are discussed in the Rural Economysection
of this Plan.
Unincorporated Communities
Table 4. 3.1 below shows the Deschutes County unincorporated communities as of 2010. La
Pine is not listed because on November 7, 2006, the residents of the La Pine Urban
Unincorporated Community voted to incorporate. The City of La Pine has adopted a
comprehensive plan and is completing associated zoning and other codes. Policies for each
unincorporated community can be found in the remaining sections of this plan.
UU3,~DESCHUTES
COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 201110 ~
jp, y ~ y~ y
Page 167 of 238 - Exhfi ~O~ E~ 6(~~~1" tl(Tia~~pRL l
GEMENT SECTION 4.3 UNINCORPORATED COMMUNITIES
Table 4. 3.1 - Deschutes County Unincorporated Communities 2010
Community Type Approval Date
Sunriver Urban UnincorporatedCommunity 1997
Terrebonne Rural Community 1997
Tumalo Rural Community 1997
Black Butte Ranch Resort Community 2001
Inn of the 7th Mountain/
Widgi Creek
Resort Community 2001
Alfalfa Rural Service Center 2002
Brothers Rural Service Center 2002
Hampton Rural Service Center 2002
Millican Rural Service Center 2002
Whistlestop Rural Service Center 2002
Wildhunt Rural Service Center 2002
Source: Deschutes County PlaminSDivision
The policies for unincorporated communities are based on extensive, relatively recent public
input and are for the most part still relevant as of 2010. Consequently, only minor changeshave
been made to those sections of this Plan. The exceptions are the Community Plans for Tumalo
and Terrebonne which are beingadopted separately. These will be incorporated into this plan
as Sections 4.5 and 4. 6.
Discmutts CouNTY CoMPREHENsm PLAN - 20111
C
I I
Pa U( 7N~! VXR1J31CC aUfQln~pe ~ U~,UyUffORPOMTED
COMMUNITIES
sect%OvL 4. 4 . SL- t.v" river
Background
In the fall of 1994 the Oregon Land Conservation and Development Commission adopted a
Oregon Administrative Rule ( OAR) 660-22, Unincorporated Communities. The new rule
required counties to update land use plansand regulationsfor areas with urban-style
development on rural lands. As part of Periodic Review, the County updated the
Comprehensive Plan and implementingregulations for Sunriver to comply with the rule.
Under OAR 660-22, Sunriver meets the definition for both an " Urban Unincorporated
Community" and a " Resort Community." With the help of a stakeholder advisory committee
comprised of key members of the community who represented a multitude of property owners
and development interests, the decision was made to proceed with the planning process for
Sunriver as an Urban Unincorporated Community. It was the consensus of the committee that
the provisions allotted for Urban UnincorporatedCommunities under the rule offered the
greatest practical degree of flexibility for future growth and development in Sunriver.
Subsection OAR 660. 22.010( 8) defines " Urban UnincorporatedCommunity" as
a] n unincorporated community that has the following characteristics:
Includes at least I SO Permanent dwelling units including manufactured homes;
Contains a mixture of land uses, including three or more public, commercial or industrial
land uses;
Includes areas served by a community sewer system; and,
Includes areas served by a community water system.
Sunriver met the definition because it historically included land developed with a mixture of
residential, commercial and industrial uses. Sunriver utilities operate both a community sewer
and water system which serve the existing development. Sunriver has its own fire and police
departments and also essential services, such as an elementaryschool. The Comprehensive Plan
designatedSunriver as an Urban UnincorporatedCommunity, enablingit to plan for future
growth and development.
Location and History
Sunriver is located in the central portion of Deschutes County, approximately 15 miles south of
Bend. Sunriver lies in the Upper Deschutes River Basin, with the Deschutes River generally
forming the western boundary of the community. Sunriver includes approximately 3, 745 acres
which are bounded by the Deschutes National Forest on the east, west and north sides. Small
lot residential subdivision development and destination resorts are the predominant land uses
to the south of the community boundary.
Development of Sunriver began in 1967 and the first subdivision plat within Sunriver was filed in
1968. Development in Sunriver beganduring a period of time when the unincorporated areas
of Deschutes County were not zoned. In 1972, when the County first adopted a zoning
ordinance ( PL-5) and Comprehensive Plan, the area identified as Sunriver was zoned A- I -T and
designated "planned development" on the ComprehensivePlan map. In 1973, a zone change to
planned development (PD) was applied for and granted. As part of the zone change application,
a "Master Plan" was developed. The Master Plan consisted of a map showing the proposed
12 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 169 5 L3t5 4& PA&(jfQ0W& 171 ~Ce Lb" I' It9gN4.4
SUNRPARURBANUNINCORPORATEDCOMMUNITY
development of Sunriver. The original area of Sunriver encompassed approximately 5, 500 acres.
Development occurred in accordance with the PD Zone of PL-5 and the density of
development was determined to be 1.5 units per acre overall.
In 1977 approximately 2, 200 acres of property originally contemplated for development as part
of Sunriver were sold to the U.S. Forest Service. Followingthe sale, a revised Master Plan for
Sunriver Phase 11was prepared for its undevelopedportion. In October 1978 the County
approved the revised Sunriver Phase II Master Plan with the same PD Zoning designation. In
1980 after a land use application submitted for development within Sunriver generated
controversy, the viability of the Sunriver Master Plan was called into question. This was
compounded by the fact that PL. 15, the County Zoning Ordinance adopted in 1979 to replace
PL-5, did not include any provisions for " planned communities." As a result, the developer of
Sunriver agreed to develop a Planned Community (PC) zoning ordinance text and new Master
Plan for Sunriver subject to County review and approval. In November 1982, the County
amended PL-15 to add a section providing for the Planned Community (PC) Zone, including
seven separate Sunriver district designations. A new Sunriver Master Plan was also approved.
Between 1982 and 1997 the PC Zoning Ordinance Text and Master Plan remained relatively
unchanged and were the guiding documents for the majority of development.
In 1997 the 1982 Master Plan was repealedby Ordinance 97- 076 and replacedby
comprehensive plan findings and policies for the Sunriver Urban Unincorporated Community.
The Sunriver Urban Unincorporated Community zoning districts were adopted at this time and
multi- family residential development was allowed in the Commercial District. In 2008
amendments were made to the Sunriver comprehensive plan and zoning text to provide
guidelines for restructuring the core commercial area of Sunriver. This was done through the
creation of a new Town Center District. As of 2010 the Town Center District had not been
applied to any actual property.
Populationand Growth
2010 County GIS data showed Sunriver having4, 138residential tax lots. Of those lots 3, 182
were developedwith single-family homes and 774 with condominiums. 182 residential lots were
vacant. While the number of residential lots within the community can be determined with
some degreeof accuracy, the current and future rate of population growth is difficult to
estimate due to the large number of vacation and second homes. The Sunriver Owners
Association estimates the number of homes with permanent residents at 475, based on the
number of owners who have the Sunriver Scene delivered to a Sunriver zip code. They further
suppose that approximately 1, 500housing units are short term rentals, which leaves about half
the homes in Sunriver vacant for extended periods of time.
The Deschutes County 2004 Coordinated PopulationForecast estimates 1.9
persons/ household, a number that was adjusted to account for the number of second homes in
the County. Using the estimate of 475 full- time dwellings, that suggests a permanent population
of around 900 persons. During the peak tourist months of July and August, the majority of
dwellings are occupied with owners and tourists. The Sunriver Owners Association estimates
the peak population at between 8, 000and 12, 000. Thus, there is a fluctuating population
comprised of both year- round and part-time residents as well as tourists.
DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVERAN- 2011 13
FFi/,~ TE~U~ ILD0RQW[!~ I' j/~U~~ FM
S
njpgD djfterR
URBAN UNINCORPORATED COMMUNITY
CommunityBoundary
2010 County GIS data showed Sunriver had approximately 3, 745 acres of land inside the
community boundary. Within this area, there were 4, 447total tax lots, includingcommon
areas. The community boundary is generally formed by the Deschutes River on the west, Spring
River Road/ South Century Drive on the south and the Deschutes National Forest on the north
and east.
During the 1997 update, the Sunriver Urban UnincorporatedCommunityboundarywas
amended to add 375- acres alongthe eastern boundary of the Sunriver Urban Unincorporated
Communityto be used for sewage effluent storage and disposal.
This area, once part of the Deschutes National Forest, was changedfrom a comprehensive plan
designationof Forest to a comprehensive plan designation of Urban Unincorporated
Community Forest. It was added per Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
requirements. The effluent and storage capabilities of the existing sewage system were at or
near capacity seasonally at that time. Thus, this expansion of the community boundary was
necessary to provide adequate sewage disposal services to the existing communities being
served at their build- outs.
ExistingLand Uses
The predominant land use in Sunriver is residential, the majority of which is single-family
residential development. However, since Sunriver was originally developed as a planned
community, a number of other uses exist, makingit somewhat self- reliant. Uses which support
the residential components include a commercial core which contains a variety of retail
businesses developed in a pedestrian mall setting, as well as a business park. A largecomponent
of development in Sunriver includes resort related amenities such as golf courses, lodge,
convention facilities and overnight accommodations. A fire station, police station and public
works facility have also been developedto support these uses.
Land bordering Sunriver on the north, east and west is zoned Forest Use (F-1) and is within the
Deschutes National Forest. The National Forest land remains undeveloped and is primarily
used for recreational purposes such as hiking, hunting, fishing, snowmobiling, etc. The forest
lands and the recreational opportunities that they offer enhance the resort component of
Sunriver. Land to the south of Sunriver includes private property which is zoned Rural
Residential ( RR-10). The majority of the RR. 10 properties include small lot ( one-half to one
acre parcels) subdivisions which were created prior to any zoning laws. There are two newer
developments to the south, Crosswater and Caldera Springs. Crosswater, a 600- acre pre- Goal
8 Destination Resort was approved in 1990. Caldera Springs, a 390- acre Goal 8 Destination
Resort was approved in 2005.
ComprehensivePlan Designations
The 1997 Deschutes County ComprehensivePlan for the Sunriver Urban Unincorporated
Communitycreated eight comprehensive plandesignations. In 2008 a ninth plan designation,
the Town Center District was added to the plan. The comprehensive plan designations for the
Sunriver Urban Unincorporated Community, except for the Town Center District which will
be added at a later date if the County receives an application for such a designation, are shown
on a map on the County website.
14 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 171 Synt 4E&c~ t i I ia~i~ " 1E99N
4.4 SUNIRPAR URBAN UNINCORPORATED COMMUNITY
I . Residential District The Residential District designationon the Comprehensive Plan Map
includes the SingleFamily Residential and Multiple Family Residential Districts as shown on
the Zoning Mapfor the Sunriver Urban Unincorporated Community. This plan designation
includes all properties which were previously designated for residential development
under the previous Planned Communitydesignation. No change to residential boundaries
was made in 1997.
2. Commercial District The majority of the land designatedCommercial includes the
commercial core of Sunriver which is commonly referred to as the Sunriver VillageMall.
An additional Commercial District is located at the north end of the community and is
developed with a grocery store and gas station. The Village Mall is developed as an
outdoor pedestrian mall and includes a variety of commercial uses. Many of the existing
commercial uses support the tourist component of the community and residents living
within Sunriver. In 1997, this plandesignationincluded all areas formerly designated for
commercial use. When the Town Center District was added to this Plan in 2008 it was
anticipated that much of the VillageMall area would be re- designatedto the new district.
As of 2010, that re- designationhas not taken place.
3. Town Center District. The Town Center District was created in an effort to preserve and
enhance the area around the commercial core of Sunriver. The objective for the Town
Center District is to combine a mixture of complementary land uses that may include
retail, offices, commercial services, residential housingand civic uses to create a vital
commercial core that will support the tourist component of the community and residents
livingwithin Sunriver. The Town Center District is designedto strengthenthe commercial
core area of Sunriver as the heart of the community, to improve the community's
economic base and enhance the appearance of the area through high-qualitydesign.
4. Resort District In general, the Resort plan designation includes properties which are
developed with amenities such as the Sunriver lodge and Great Hall, golf courses, the
equestrian and marina facilities and the nature center. These amenities have been
developedto foster the recreation and tourist component of Sunriver. For the most part,
this designationincludes the properties which are owned and managedby Sunriver Resort
S. Business Park District The Sunriver Business Park lies at the southern end of the
community boundary and is physically separated from the remainder of the community by
SpringRiver Road. This plandesignationwas originallycreated to accommodate light
industrial development to support the employment needs of the community and
surrounding area. Since the inception of zoning regulationsfor this area, development has
been primarily commercial in nature rather than industrial. The zoning ordinance was
modified in 1997 to reflect the existing businesses and the trend for commercial
development while still allowing for industrial uses to develop.
6. Community District. The Communityplan designation includes properties which are
primarily developed with public service uses which support all facets of the community.
Developmentincludes the fire station, elementary school, community center and
corporation/public works facilities. Properties with this designation are primarily owned
and administered by the Sunriver Owners Association.
DESCHUTEs COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011 Is
I~ arr~lyt, UR12 0 X I i tS i5, Vf ragpQ~61~
R URBAN UNINCORPORATED COMMUNITY
7. Airport District. The Airport plan designationincludes areas which in 1997 were
developed with airport related amenities, such as runways, hangars, fuelingstations and
maintenance facilities. This district also includes areas surroundingthe actual airport
development which are considered to be in the sphereof influence of the airport and in
which airport- related impacts and risks are associated. Development in the airport district
shall be limited with respect to heightsof structures, publicgatheringplacesand other
potential risks to persons or property related to those uses.
8. Utility District. This plan designationincludes properties which in 1997 were developed
with amenities such as sewage pump stations, water treatment facilities, water distribution
facilities and associated utility improvements. The utility plan designationis intended to
provide for the developmentand expansion of necessary utility facilities on properties
which are alreadydevoted to such uses.
9. Forest District. The previous boundary for Sunriver was expanded in 1997 by
approximately 366- acres to include land alongthe eastern boundary that has historically
been zoned for forest uses and within the Deschutes National Forest. A recent decision
by the U.S. Forest Service to permit an effluent storage pond and effluent irrigation site on
approximately50 acres and a potential land transfer to the Sunriver Utilities Company
now Sunriver Water LLC/ EnvironmentalLLC) prompted inclusion of this area within the
community boundary. By includingthis area, future expansion of the sewage disposal
system would permit the application of biosolids with the effluent irrigation site and
storage pond. This will enable Sunriver to meet Oregon Department of Environmental
Quality regulations for treated wastewater storage and disposal stemming from build-out
within the community. An exception to Goal 4 was not taken because the only uses
allowed in the expansion area are permitted in the Forest zone.
Public Facility Planning
Water and Sewer
The Sunriver Utilities Company was established as a private water and wastewater company
and has provided water and sewer services within the community boundary since 1969. It is the
largestprivate water/ wastewater company in the State of Oregon. In June of 1998 Sunriver
Utilities Companysplit into two separate LLC's. Sunriver Water LLC (SRWLLC) which is under
the jurisdiction of the Oregon Public Utility Commission ( PUC) for rate structure and the
Oregon Departmentof Human Services for water quality and Sunriver Environmental LLC
SRELLC) which is under the jurisdiction of the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
DEQ). Sunriver Water and Environmental serve not just Sunriver, but also Crosswater,
Caldera Springsand seven lots in Vandevert Ranch, with a build-out of 5, 400equivalent dwelling
units.
Water: SWLLC in 2010 operates three main wells which are capable of pumping over 7.8
million gallons of water each day. In addition, reservoir capacity for water storage is 2 million
gallons. This volume of water production and storage exceeds the needs of the community
within the boundaries of Sunriver. As of 2010, SRWLLC serves a total 4, 307water customers.
This total includes the following types of service connections: 4, 034 residential and
condominium units; 147 commercial; 126 for irrigation purposes and 485 fire hydrants. All
service connections are metered to measure the amount of water that is being used. The meter
16 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 1736 -~ E~ c~N~ ti ( if Qo i Iii 'a~ AgPlUi1! 99N
4.4 SUNRIVER URBAN UNINCORPORATED COMMUNITY
service sizes range from typical 3/ 4" residential lines to 6" lines for irrigation, commercial and
industrial uses.
Sewer. SRELLC's wastewater treatment facilities are capable of handling/treating an average of
1.5 million gallons of wastewater per day. This includes the 1997 expansion of effluent storage
ponds on a parcel along the eastern boundary of Sunriver that is now owned by Sunriver
Environmental LLC. The design and flow accommodations will facilitate build out of all 5, 400
lots within the communities served.
Effluent from the wastewater treatment facility is used to irrigate the golf course and hay fields.
Biosolids from the wastewater facility are used with recycled yard debris and wood chips from
forest thinning to make agriculturalcompost.
In 2009 Deschutes County and the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality
commissioned a study by SRELLC to examine the feasibilityof constructing a new treatment
plant east of Sunriver to serve their current customers as well as approximately 4, 000potential
new customers south of Sunriver, where there are concerns regarding nitrate contamination of
groundwater from septic systems. The study concluded that such an expansion was physically
and financially feasible. As of 2010 a decision regardingexpansion of the Sunriver sewer system
is being evaluated by the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality.
Public Services
Police and Fire: In 2002 the Sunriver Service District was established to oversee the police and
fire departments. A five- member board appointed by the Board of County Commissioners
works with the Police and Fire chiefs to provide service to Sunriver.
Sunriver's police department is responsible for law enforcement within the boundary of the
Sunriver Urban Unincorporated Community.
Sunriver's fire department serves all areas within the boundary of the Sunriver Urban
Unincorporated Community, except for the Business Park. The Business Park is provided with
fire protection by the La Pine Rural Fire Protection District. Through a mutual aid agreement
with the Forest Service, Sunriver's fire department also responds to wildland fires within five
miles of Sunriver. Ambulance services are provided to a 360- mile area centered on Sunriver.
The department has a mutual aid agreement with the La Pine Rural Fire Protection District to
provide secondary services within each others service boundaries on an as needed basis. The
La Pine Rural Fire Protection District has a fire station located alongSouth Century Drive
approximately I''/2 miles south of the community boundary.
Schools
Three Rivers Elementary School, which is under the direction of the Bend-La Pine School
District, is currently the only school within the boundary of the Sunriver Urban
Unincorporated Community. Three Rivers Elementary offers schoolingfrom kindergarten
through 8th gradeand as of 2010 had an enrollment of 396 students. The school accepts pupils
from both inside and outside the boundary of the Sunriver Unincorporated Community.
Sunriver Owners Association ( SROA)
The Sunriver Owners Association has the day- to-day responsibility of overseeing the majority
of the community operations. The association is governed by a Board of Directors and a
DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVEFLAN - 2011 1i
F1gre "4y( pnpaR(~X F11 J"8 T' nSJg1g~6JftrR
URBAN UNINCORPORATED COMMUNITY
General Manager. The services and departments operated by the Sunriver Owners Association,
as well as the primary function of each, include:
I . AccountingDepartment - This department is responsible for SROA's financial
transactions includingowner maintenance fees and accounts payable and receivable. It also
maintains the property owners database and works with the Finance Committee on
budgetsand reserves.
2. Administration - The administrative offices oversee the day- to-day functions of each
component of the association.
3. Communication Department - This department publishes a monthly newspaper ( Sunriver
Scene) that is distributed to members of the association and the public. Other duties
include programming community access TV channel 4 and publishinga resident directory
and map.
4. Community Development - This departmentworks with the DesignCommittee to
review new structures to ensure compliance with designand development standards.
S. Environmental Services - This department administers fire and fuels regulations as well as
other environmental issues of the community.
6. Public Works Department - This department is responsible for maintenance of roads,
recreational paths and amenities as well as fleet maintenance.
7. Recreation Department This department offers a variety of recreational activities and
programs for property owners and visitors and manages pools and tennis courts.
Transportation Planning
Background/Existing TransportationFacilities in Sunriver
The Sunriver Urban Unincorporated Community is accessed via public roadways. These include
South Century Drive and Cottonwood Road. Both of these roadways lie within public rights-of-
way and are maintained by Deschutes County. South Century Drive and Cottonwood Road
connect to Highway97, which is the primary corridor for vehicular travel throughout Central
Oregon. South Century Drive enters Sunriver near the southern community boundary and
extends to the residentially developed areas to the south and west. Cottonwood Road enters
Sunriver near the northern Sunriver boundary and ends within the community.
Internal roads within Sunriver, except for Venture Lane within the Business Park, are private,
open to the public, and maintained by the Sunriver Owners Association. These roads are paved
and are generally20 feet in width. Venture Lane is a public road maintained by the County. The
internal roadway network was developedas part of the originaldesignand master plan for
Sunriver. The network consists of a series of internal traffic circles or roundabouts, from which
spur roads lead to various areas within the community.
A bicycle/ pedestrianpath system has been developed and integrated throughout the
community. Aside from the recreational opportunities provided by the path system, the paths
serve as an alternative to vehicular travel as they connect the residential, commercial, school
and recreation areas of the community. The paths are paved, maintained in good condition by
the Sunriver Owners Association and are used extensively.
Recent Improvements
Road wideningimprovements were completedin 1996 by the County for the segment of South
Century Drive between Highway 97 and the entrance to the Sunriver Business Park.
18 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 175SyjWgPA ( gt?0 VrC7171~~C@ U~ ~E TqN
7.4 SUNRIVER URBAN UNINCORPORATED COMMUNITY
Improvements to the entrance of the Business Park itself were also completed. The County's
first roundabout was constructed at the intersection of South Century/Abbot Drive in 2007.
The improvements were done to improve the safety and longevityof the roadway. Other
improvements to County roads outside of Sunriver, included paving and upgrading the old
Forest Service 40145 Road, now called River Summit Drive in 2006. 2007 and a grade- separated
interchange at South Century Drive and Highway 97 in 2008.
Future TransportationNeeds
The existing privately maintained roads and bicycletpedestrianpathsadequatelyserve the travel
needs of the residents and visitors of Sunriver. The existing roads and pathways provide access
to all platted and developed areas within the community. There is no projected need for future
roads to serve the anticipated development, except possibly within the Sunriver Business Park.
Currently there is only one ingress/egress point from South Century Drive to the Business
Park. Future developmentwithin the Business Park may warrant an additional entrance or
improvements to the existing entrance.
South Century Drive and Cottonwood Road are both operating at levels within their vehicular
capacity. In the area between the entrance to the Sunriver Village Mall and the Business Park,
the 2009 average daily traffic figures for South Century Drive were approximately 6, 748trips
per day. This figure is below the general capacity of 9, 600trips per day. Many of the vehicles
travelingthis roadway are passingthrough the community, not necessarily to Sunriver, as this
road provides a direct link from Highway 97 to the surroundingrural subdivisions. Cottonwood
Road, which only extends between Highway 97 and the community boundary, is not subject to
the same volume of pass through traffic that occurs on South Century Drive. Thus, the traffic
figures for this roadway are much lower at approximately 3, 298 trips per day in 2009.
DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVEPLAN- 201 1 19
FF, IfaPTF,14VO?" PRQYY~h~ ~ nS QDI* ~ VER URBAN UNINCORPORATED COMMUNITY
SectLow 4. 4 SL4_VJ Ver T> oLLO~es
Goals and Policies
No goals have been defined for the Sunriver Urban Unincorporated Community.
Policy 4. 4.1 Land use regulations shall conform to the requirements of OAR 660 Division 22
or any successor.
Policy 4. 4.2 County comprehensive planpoliciesand land use regulationsshall ensure that
new uses authorized within the Sunriver Urban Unincorporated Community do
not adversely affect forest uses in the surrounding Forest Use Zones.
Policy 4. 4.3 To protect scenic views and riparian habitat within the community, appropriate
setbacks shall be required for all structures built on properties with frontage
along the Deschutes River.
Policy 4. 4.4 Open space and common area, unless otherwise zoned for development, shall
remain undeveloped except for community amenities such as bike and
pedestrianpaths, and parksand picnic areas.
Policy 4. 4.5 Public access to the Deschutes River shall be preserved.
Policy4. 4.6 The County supports the design review standards administered by the Sunriver
Owners Association.
Residential District Policies
Policy 4. 4.7 Areas designated residential on the comprehensive plan map shall be developed
with singlefamily or multiplefamilyresidential housing.
Commercial District Policies
Policy 4. 4.8 Small-scale, low- impactcommercial uses shall be developed in conformance with
the requirements of OAR Chapter 660, Division 22. Larger, more intense
commercial uses shall be permitted if they are intended to serve the community,
the surrounding rural area and the travel needs of peoplepassingthrough the
area.
Policy 4. 4.4 No additional land shall be designated Commercial until the next periodic
review.
Policy 4. 4. 10 Multiple-family residences and residential units in commercial buildings shall be
permitted in the commercial area for the purpose of providing housing which is
adjacent to places of employment. Single-family residences shall not be permitted
in commercial areas.
Policy 4. 4.11 Approval standards for conditional uses in the commercial district shall take into
consideration the impact of the proposed use on the nearby residential and
commercial uses and the capacity of the transportation system and public
facilities and services to serve the proposed use.
20 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 177STAMR4M1 W?O V f ft~ ff jbj ?99N
4.4 SUNRIVER URBAN UNINCORPORATED COMMUNITY
Town Center District Policies
Policy 4. 4.12 Small- scale, low- impactcommercial uses shall be developed in conformance with
the requirements of OAR Chapter660, Division 22. Larger, more intense
commercial uses shall be permitted if they are intended to serve the community,
the surrounding rural area or the travel needs of people passingthrough the
area.
Policy 4. 4.13 Development standards in the town center district should encourage new
development that is compatible with a town center style of development that
serves as the commercial core of the Sunriver Urban Unincorporated
Community. The following policies should guide developmentin the Town
Center District in Sunriver:
a. Combine a mixture of land uses that may include retail, offices, commercial
services, residential housing and civic uses to create economic and social
vitality and encourage pedestrian use through mixed use and stand alone
residential buildings.
b. Developa commercial mixed-use area that is safe, comfortable and attractive
to pedestrians.
c. Encourageefficient land use by facilitating compact, high- densitydevelopment
that minimizes the amount of land that is needed for development.
d. Provide both formal and informal community gathering places.
e. Provide visitor accommodations and tourism amenities appropriate to
Sunriver.
f. Provide design flexibility to anticipate changes in the marketplace.
Z. Provide access and public placesthat encourage pedestrian and bicycle travel.
h. Provide road and pedestrian connections to residential areas.
i. Facilitate development (land use mix, density and design) that supports public
transit where applicable.
j. Developa distinct character and qualitydesign appropriate to Sunriver that
will identify the Town Center as the centerpiece/focal point of the
community.
Policy4. 4.14 Developmentwithin the Town Center ( TC) District will be substantiallymore
dense than development elsewhere in Sunriver. This increased density will
require changesto existing topography and vegetation in the TC District to
allow for screened, underground parking. The requirements of the County's site
plan ordinance shall be interpreted to reflect this fact.
Resort District Policies
Policy 4. 4.15 Areas designatedresort on the comprehensive plan map shall be designated
resort, resort marina, resort golf course, resort equestrian or resort nature
center district on the zoning map to reflect a development pattern which is
consistent with resort uses and activities.
ft
COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE RAN - 201111 ~
v
a "'+'UgnoR X I I CS IO n f1C@ (~ j UU3lR
R URIIAN UNINCORPORATED COMMUNITY
Business Pork District Policies
Policy 4. 4.16 A variety of commercial uses which support the needs of the community and
surroundingrural area, and not uses solelyintended to attract resort visitors,
should be encouraged.
Policy4. 4.17 Allow small-scale, low- impactcommercial uses in conformance with the
requirements of OAR Chapter 660, Division 22. Larger more intense
commercial uses shall be permitted if they are intended to serve the community,
the surrounding rural area and the travel needs of people passingthrough the
area.
Policy4. 4.18 Small-scale, low- impactindustrial uses should be allowed in conformance with
the requirements of OAR Chapter 660, Division 22.
CommunityDistrict Policies
Policy4. 4.19 Areas designated community on the comprehensive plan map shall be designated
community general, community recreation, community limited or community
neighborhood district on the zoning map to reflect a development pattern which
is consistent community uses and activities.
Policy 4. 4.20 Lands designated community shall be developed with uses which support all
facets of community needs, be they those of year- round residents or part-time
residents and tourists.
Policy 4. 4.21 Development shall take into consideration the unique physical features of the
community and be sensitive to the residential development within which the
community areas are interspersed.
Airport District Policies
Policy 4. 4.22 Future development shall not result in structures or uses which, due to extreme
height or attraction of birds, would pose a hazard to the operation of aircraft.
Policy4. 4.23 Future development should not allow uses which would result in large
concentrations or gatheringsof people in a single location.
Utility District Policies
Policy 4. 4.24 Lands designated utility shall allow for development of administrative offices,
substations, storage/repair yards, distribution lines and similar amenities for
services such as water, sewer, telephone, cable television and wireless
telecommunications.
Forest District Policies
Policy4. 4.25 Uses and developmenton property designatedforest that are within the
Sunriver Urban Unincorporated Communityboundary shall be consistent with
uses and developmentof other lands outside of the community boundary which
are also designated forest on the Deschutes County comprehensive plan map.
22 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 179ST 4& c'ti4&( jf?0W& Iai ~ ffjtI ! ERgN4. 4
SUNRIVERURBANUNINCORPORATEDCOMMUNITY
Policy4. 4.26 Forest district property shall be used primarily for effluent storage ponds, spray
irrigation of effluent, biosolids application and ancillaryfacilities necessary to
meet Oregon Department of Environmental Quality sewage disposalregulations.
Policy 4. 4.27 The development of resort, residential or non- forest commercial activities on
Forest district lands shall be prohibited unless an exception to Goal 14 is taken.
General Public FacilityPolicies
Policy 4. 4.28 Residential minimum lot sizes and densities shall be determined by the capacity
of the water and sewer facilities to accommodate existing and future
development and growth.
Policy 4. 4.29 New uses or expansion of existing uses within the Sunriver Urban
Unincorporated Community which require land use approval shall be approved
only upon confirmation from the Sunriver Utility Company that water and sewer
service for such uses can be provided.
Policy 4. 4.30 Expansion of the Sunriver Water LLC/ Environmental/LLC Water and Sewer
District outside of the historic Sunriver boundaries shall adequately address the
impacts to services provided to existing property owners.
Water FacilityPolicies
Policy 4. 4.31 Water service shall continue to be provided by the Sunriver Utilities Company.
Sewer FacilityPolicies
Policy 4. 4.32 Sewer service shall continue to be provided by the Sunriver Utilities Company.
TransportationSystemMaintenance Policies
Policy 4. 4.33 Privately- maintainedroads within the Sunriver Urban Unincorporated
Community boundary shall continue to be maintained by the Sunriver Owners
Association.
Policy 4. 4.34 The bicycle/ pedestrianpath system in Sunriver shall continue to be maintained
by the Sunriver Owners Association or as otherwise provided by a maintenance
agreement.
Policy4. 4.35 The County will encourage the future expansion of bicycle/ pedestrianpaths
within the Sunriver Urban Unincorporated Community boundary in an effort to
provide an alternative to vehicular travel.
Policy 4. 4.36 All public roads maintained by the County shall continue to be maintained by the
County. Improvements to County maintained public roads shall occur as
described the County TransportationSystem Plan.
DEEscmuUTE-s
COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011 23
C
UjT-UU3 -
R URMN UNINCORPORATED COMMUNITY
Pa~e'I t3UutL3P~ X I I tS iOZJT Tnjqg
Sectiovt. 4.5Terrebovi. vtie Covu.vu.uwitU Pl, aI&
Background
Terrebonne Community Plan is beingadopted as a separate project and will be incorporated
here when adopted.
24
UR~/~N GRp ~, p~ D~ESCHUTES
COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
f'(] ItTaf1CELU"I I - ~
GEMENT SECTION 4.5 TERREBONNE COMMUNITY PLAN
Page 181 of 238 - Exhib " Vft
Sectiow 4. 6 Tuvu,al,o Covu.wt.uwit~ PLAw
Background
Tumalo Community Plan is being adoptedas a separate project and will be incorporated here
when adopted.
DRAFT DEscHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSNE PLAN - 2010 25
FFMU MPR W i "MnSJhJIgD df jrftO COMMUNITY PLAN
SCOU' Ov- 4. 7 ResOYt Cov K& Lkw~tLes
Background
A Resort Community is characterized as an unincorporated community that is established
primarily for, and continues to be used primarily for, recreation and resort purposes. It includes
residential and commercial uses and providesfor both temporary and permanent residential
occupancy, includingovernight lodgingand accommodations.
In the fall of 1994 the Oregon Land Conservation and DevelopmentCommission adopteda
new administrative rule, OAR 660, Division 22, entitled UnincorporatedCommunities. This
Rule provided guidelines for defining and regulating areas with urban style growth outside of
urban growth boundaries. As part of periodic review Deschutes County updated the
Comprehensive Plan and implementing zoning regulations for Black Butte Ranch and the
Inn/ WidgiCreek to comply with the rule.
Black Butte Ranch and Inn of the 7' Mountain/Widgi Creek met the definition of "resort
community" because they have historically developedwith a mixture of residential and
recreation or resort amenities. Commercial-type uses also exist, such as the restaurant and
stables. Other retail operations, such as the golf pro shopsand retail sales at the tennis shop
are associated with specific recreation activities and are not designed as stand alone retail
operations intended by themselves to attract the traveling public to Black Butte Ranch or Inn of
the 7' Mountain/Widgi Creek.
Black Butte Ranch
Background
Black Butte Ranch is located in the northwestern portion of Deschutes County, eight miles
west of the city limits of Sisters. Black Butte Ranch is in the Indian Ford Creek watershed, a
tributary to Whychus Creek, itself a tributary to the Deschutes River, and is surrounded by
lands within Deschutes National Forest. Since the late 1800s Black Butte Ranch has been a
cattle ranch. Cattle operations continue today.
Black Butte Ranch includes 1, 830acres developedin the early 1970s as a planned residential
development with both permanent and vacation homes on 1, 253lots and three separate
condominium areas. Recreation amenities include two I8- hole golf courses, four swimming
pools, 23 tennis courts, horse stables, a sports field, basketball courts and trails for bicycling,
jogging and cross country skiing. Conference rooms, a restaurant, loungeand property sales in
the Main Lodge, a general store and pro shops at both golf courses provide additional amenities
for residents, guests and visitors.
Black Butte Ranch allows public access to its restaurant, golf courses and horse stables, but is
primarily oriented to its year- round residents and seasonal guests. Black Butte Ranch is
considered by many peopleto be a " destination resort", however development at Black Butte
Ranch preceded the adoption of Statewide Goal 8 and the County's mapping of lands for the
siting of destination resorts. Approximately 96 percent of the area within Black Butte Ranch
community boundary is developed.
26 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 183 of 238 - Exhibit B to OF&ramg96wWwTH
MANAGEMENT SECTION 4.7 RESORT COMMUNITIES
Development of Black Butte Ranch beganin 1970 and the first subdivision plat within Black
Butte Ranch was filed in 1970. In 1972, when the County first adopted a zoning ordinance ( PL-
5) and comprehensive plan, the area identified as Black Butte Ranch, althoughsmaller than
today, was zoned " Planned Development" and designatedas a " Destination Resort" on the
comprehensive plan map. In 1979 the County adoptedrevised zoning and comprehensive plan
maps. In 1992 Black Butte Ranch was designatedas a rural residential exception area on the
comprehensive plan map. Black Butte Ranch was zoned Rural Residential ( RR-10), and was
designated "Destination Resort" on the comprehensive plan map.
The population of Black Butte Ranch is difficult to ascertain due to the largenumber of vacation
and second homes within the community that are occupied for only part of the year. In 2001, the
Black Butte Ranch Association estimated the number of full- time, year- round residents at 337
persons. During the peak tourist season, the population, includingguests who do not own
property but are renting residences within the community, is estimated to rise to 5, 000persons.
Black Butte Ranch operates both a community sewer and water system that are in place and
serve the existing development. Black Butte Ranch also has its own fire and police departments.
Land Use
The Black Butte Ranch community boundary includes a total of 1, 912acres consisting of 1)
1, 830acres includingthe main resort development, the resort's recreational amenities, and the
residential areas, and 2) 82 acres located contiguous to the northwest corner used for
industrial uses in support of Ranch operations. The community boundaryabuts Highway20 on
the northeast. National Forest Service lands and private landholders bound it on the south and
west.
The predominantland use in Black Butte Ranch is residential, the majority of which is single-
family residential development. However, since Black Butte Ranch was originally developed as a
planned community, a number of other uses exist which make Black Butte Ranch a community
that is somewhat self- reliant. Uses that support the residential components include a
commercial core, which contains a variety of retail businesses developed in a pedestrian mall
setting, as well as a business park. A significant component of developmentin Black Butte Ranch
includes recreation amenities such as golf courses, and resort facilities, includinga lodge,
meeting facilities and a restaurant. A fire station and public works facilities for sewage treatment
and water delivery have also been developed. The Black Butte Fire Department serves all areas
within the boundary. Utility services will continue to be provided in the current manner.
Inn of the 7' Mountain/W/idgi Creek
Background
The Inn of the Seventh Mountain and Widgi Creek Golf community are located approximately
five miles southwest of the Bend Urban Growth Boundary on Century Drive. They are both
bounded by the Deschutes River to the south.
The Inn of the Seventh Mountain ( Inn) has been developedsince the late 1960s and has
historically been considered to be a stand- alone resort community with overnight lodgingand
recreation facilities for tourists. It has 230 condominium units, spread among 22 buildings. The
initial boundary was established in 1972 and encompasses 22.65 acres. The Inn includes horse
stables, tennis courts, golf course, skating rink, swimming pools and other recreation amenities,
cDEESCHUTES
COUNTY COMPREHENSIVEPLAN -
520111
Pa MM txflI I OL~ QIf'i R ~1d?p
T COMMUNITIES
and a restaurant, meeting rooms and multi-story lodging units for resort guests. Manyof the
dwelling units at the Inn are occupied seasonally but some residences are year round.
Commercial uses open to overnightguests and the public include the restaurant, skatingrink
and golf course, guided raft trips on the Deschutes River and a retail/ rental sport shop.
Widgi Creek was approved in 1983 as a 237- acre expansion to the Inn and includes a golf
course with surrounding residential lots consisting of 107 for single-familydwellingsand 103 for
condominium units.
The use of the site as a destination resort was initiated previous to implementation of the
statewide planninggoals in Deschutes County. Upon implementation of the statewide planning
goals, the property was designated as " forest" in compliancewith Goal 4, and the use continued to
be permitted as a destination resort. However, in 1993 HB 3661 prohibited destination resorts as
a use in the forest zone except as allowed under Goal 8. This property was not approved as a
destination resort pursuant to Goal 8 until the year 2001. At that time a " built and committed"
exception based on Statewide ManningGoal 2 was taken for the entire Inn/ Widgicommunity.
Almost all of the residential uses at the Inn of the Seventh Mountain cater to tourist
accommodations. During the peak tourist season, the population, includingguests who do not
own property but are renting residences within the community, is estimated to be
approximately S00 people. In 2001, the number of full- time and part-time residents at Widgi
Creek is approximately 120, consisting of 80 single-family residents and 39 condo residents.
Since there are only four condo units available for rental, there is no significantincrease in the
population during the peak tourist season. As currently planned, when the developmentis fully
built out, the population will increase to a total of 200 full- time and part-time residents
distributed in 107 single-family homes and 46 condominium units.
The Inn/ Widgisewer service ( except approved on- site septic systems) and fire protection are
provided by the City of Bend, water by on- site wells, security service by the Inn/ Widgi Resort
Communityand police services by Deschutes County Sheriff.
Land Use
The Inn of the Seventh Mountain/Widgi Creek community boundary includes 260 acres ( 23 for
the Inn and 237 for Widgi Creek). The property is used for recreational amenities, rental and
residential units. The western boundary is Century Drive. The southern boundary is generally
the Deschutes River canyon. The entire resort community is bordered by the Deschutes
National Forest.
The predominant land use at the Inn is resort use with overnight lodgingand recreational
facilities for tourists, in addition to a restaurant, meeting rooms and a retail/ rental sport shop.
The predominant land use is residential, with single-family residential development and
condominium units, in addition to a golf course.
28 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 185 of 238 - Exhibit B to ORAaAg9" WWTHMANAGEMENT SECTION 4.7 RESORT COMMUNITIES
SBct'Ww 4. 7 RCSOrt Cowt.vu.uV, LtU Pol. ici.Cs
Goals and Policies
No goals have been defined for Black Butte Ranch or Inn of 7th Mountain / Widgi
Creek Resort Communities
General Resort CommunityPolicies
Policy 4. 7.1 Land use regulations shall conform to the requirements of OAR 660 Division 22
or any successor.
Policy 4. 7.2 Designatedopen space and common area, unless otherwise zoned for
development, shall remain undevelopedexcept for community amenities such as
bike and pedestrian paths, park and picnic areas. Areas developedas golf courses
shall remain available for that purpose or for open space/ recreationuses.
Policy 4. 7.3 The provisions of the LandscapeManagementOverlay Zone shall apply in Resort
Communities where the zone exists along Century Drive, Highway 26 and the
Deschutes River.
Policy 4. 7.4 Residential minimum lot sizes and densities shall be determined by the capacity
of the water and sewer facilities to accommodate existing and future
development and growth.
Policy4. 7.5 The resort facility and resort recreation uses permitted in the zoning for Black
Butte Ranch and the Inn of the Seventh Mountain/Widgi Creek shall serve the
resort community.
Black Butte Ranch General Policies
Policy4. 7.6 County comprehensive plan policies and land use regulations shall ensure that
new uses authorized within the Black Butte Ranch Resort Community do not
adversely affect forest uses in the surrounding Forest Use Zones.
Policy4. 7.7 The County supports the designreview standards administered by the
Architectural Review Committee.
Policy 4. 7.8 Residential, resort and utility uses shall continue to be developedin accordance
with the Master Designfor Black Butte Ranch and the respective Section
Declarations.
Policy 4. 7.9 Industrial activities, including surface mining, shall only occur in the area zoned
Black Butte Ranch Surface Mining, Limited Use Combining District ( Black Butte
Ranch SM/LU) located in the northwest corner of Black Butte Ranch.
Policy 4.7. 10 Employeehousing shall be located in the area zoned Black Butte Ranch-
Utility/ LimitedUse Combining District ( Black Butte Ranch-U/LU).
Policy 4. 7.1 1 Any amendment to the allowable use(s) in either the Resort Community District
or the Limited Use CombiningDistrict shall require an exception in accordance
with applicable statewide planninggoal(s), OAR 660- 04-018/ 022 and DCC
18. 112 or any successor.
DEESCHU~TES~COUNTY
COMPREHENSIVEPLAN - 2011 29
C
Pay'' t " Oi wxRlI O VfalnSS9 ~Ul T= Q03TCOMMUNITIES
Policy 4. 7.12 The westerly 38- acres zoned Black Butte Ranch Surface Mining, Limited Use
Combining District ( Black Butte Ranch SM/LU) shall be used for the mining and
storage of aggregate resources. Uses that do not prevent the future mining of
these resources, such as disposal of reclaimed effluent and woody debris disposal
from thinning and other forest practices may be allowed concurrently. Other
resort maintenance, operational and utility uses, such as a solid waste transfer
station, maintenance facility or equipment storage may be allowed only after
mining and reclamation have occurred.
Policy 4. 7.13 The 18.5 acres zoned Black Butte Ranch- Utility/Limited Use CombiningDistrict
Black Butte Ranch-U/LU) may be used for the disposal of reclaimed sludge.
Policy 4. 7.14 The area west of McCallister Road and east of the area zoned Black Butte Ranch
may be used for largeequipment storage, generalstorage, maintenance uses, RV
storage, telephone communications, administration offices, housekeeping
facilities and employee housing.
Policy4. 7.1 S Employeehousing shall be set back at least 250 feet from the eastern boundary
of the area zoned Black Butte Ranch Surface Mining, Limited Use Combining
District ( Black Butte Ranch SM/LU).
Policy4. 7.16 Surface mining within the Black Butte Ranch community boundary shall adhere
to the following Goal 5 ESEE "Program to Meet Goal" requirements:
a. Only the western most 38 acres of the site shall continue to be mined.
b. Setbacks shall be required for potential conflicting residential and other
development. A minimum 50- foot setback shall be maintained from the
perimeter of tax lot 202 for all surface mining activity.
c. Noise impact shall be mitigated by buffering and screening.
d. Hours of operation shall be limited to between 7: 00 a. m. and 6: 00 p. m.
weekdays. No operations shall be allowed on weekends and holidays.
e. Processing shall be limited to 45 days in any one year, to be negotiated with
Deschutes County in the site plan process in consultation with the Oregon
Department of Fish and Wildlife ( ODFW).
f. The conditions set forth in the August 10, 1989, letter of ODFW shall be
adhered to.
g. Extraction at the site shall be limited to five acres at a time with on- going
incremental reclamation ( subject to DOGAMI review and approval).
h. Mining operations, siting of equipment, and trucking of product shall be
conducted in such a manner that applicable DEQ standards are met and
minimizes noise and dust.
i. DOGAMI requirements for a permit once mining affects more than five acres
outside the 8. 6-acre exemption area shall be met.
j. A conditional use permit shall be obtained from Deschutes County, under the
provisions of section 18. 128.280. Surface mining of resources exclusively for
on- site personal, farm or forest use or maintenance of irrigation canals,
before mining activity affects more than five acres outside the 8. 6-acre
exempt area.
30 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 187 of 238 - Exhibit B to OF&a%% g9" 6ffWTH
MANAGEMENT SECTION 4.7 RESORT COMMUNITIES
Black Butte Ranch Public FacilityPolicies
Policy 4. 7.17 Police protection services shall be provided by the Black Butte Ranch Police
Services District.
Policy 4. 7.18 The Black Butte Ranch Water Distribution Company and the Black Butte Ranch
Corporation shall confirm the water and sewer service, respectively, can be
provided for new uses or expansion of existing uses that require land use
approval.
Policy4. 7.19 The Black Butte Ranch Water Distribution Company shall provide water service
for the Black Butte Ranch Resort Community.
Policy 4. 7.20 The Black Butte Ranch Corporation shall provide sewer service for Black Butte
Ranch.
Policy 4. 7.21 The Black Butte Ranch Fire Protection District shall provide fire protection
services for Black Butte Ranch.
Policy 4. 7.22 The roads and the bicycle/ pedestrianpath system within the Black Butte Ranch
Resort Community boundary shall be maintained by the Black Butte Ranch
Owners Association.
Inn of the 7th Mountain Widgi Creek General Policies
Policy4. 7.23 Any amendment to the allowable uses in either the Resort Community District
or the Widgi Creek Residential District shall require an exception in accordance
with applicable statewide planninggoal(s), OAR 660- 04-018/ 022 or any
successor, and DCC 18. 112 or any successor
Policy 4. 7.24 The County shall encourage and support land exchangesefforts by and between
private property owners, public agenciesand public trusts for the purpose of
fostering public access to and protection of natural resources, such as rivers,
streams, caves, areas/ features of historical importance and other natural
features.
Inn of the 7" MountainlWtdgiCreek Public FacilityPolicies
Policy4. 7.25 Police protection services shall be provided under contract with the Deschutes
County Sheriff.
Policy 4. 7.26 Water service shall be supplied by on- site wells for the Inn/ WidgiResort
Community.
Policy 4. 7.27 New uses or expansion of existing uses that require land use approval shall be
approved only upon confirmation from the City of Bend that sewer service can
be provided.
Policy 4. 7.28 Fire protection services for the Inn/ Widgishall be provided through a contract
with the City of Bend until such time as Inn/ Widgidevelopsanother planto
provide adequate fire protection.
Policy4. 7.29 The Resort Community, not Deschutes County, shall maintain roads in the
community.
DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011 31
nVhTgIf~d?j ~ lT COMMUNITIES
Policy4. 7.30 The bicycle/ pedestrianpath system shall be maintained by the Inn/ WidgiOwners
Association.
Policy 4. 7.31 Emergency access between Widgi Creek and the Inn of the Seventh Mountain
shall be provided in accordance with the approved development plan for the
Elkai Woods town homes. The respective resort property owners shall maintain
emergency access between the Inn and Widgi Creek.
32 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 189 of 238 - Exhibit B to OgffaTACgIVMT6ffwTH
MANAGEMENT SECTION 4.7 RESORT COMMUNITIES
sect~ov. 4. 2 R. u.raL service Cewters
Background
A Rural Service Center is characterized as an unincorporated community consisting primarily of
commercial or industrial uses providing goods and services to the surroundingrural area or
persons traveling through the area, but which also includes some permanent residential dwellings.
In order to comply with OAR 660- 022, Deschutes County updatedthe Comprehensive Plan
and implementingzoning regulationsin 2002 for the communities of Alfalfa, Brothers, Hampton,
Millican, Whistlestop and Wildhunt. The Comprehensive Plan and zoning map boundaries for all
of the Rural Service Centers were amended to comply with the requirements of the
administrative rule and to reconcile historic mapping inconsistencies between the plan
designation and zoning and inconsistencies between community boundaries and historic
development patterns.
The predominantland uses in the areas surroundingthe Alfalfa, Brothers, Hamptonand Millican
Rural Service Centers are farmingand ranching. The predominant land uses in the areas
surroundingWhistlestop and Wildhunt are forest, ranching and rural residential. The
unincorporated rural service centers serve the needs of the surrounding areas as well as the
needs of the travelingpublic. Three of the communities are located on Highway20 east of
Bend; Millican is 26 miles, Brothers 42 miles and Hampton 64 miles. Alfalfa is located
approximately I I miles east of Bend on Willard Road. Whistlestop is located approximately 30
miles southwest of Bend on BurgessRoad. Wildhunt is located approximately 26 miles south of
Bend at the junction of Highway 97 and Highway 31.
The communities of Alfalfa, Brothers and Hampton have approved public water systems that
serve the school and combination store/ cafe/post office in Brothers and the stores in Alfalfa and
Hampton. The Central Oregon Irrigation District provides water for agriculturaluses
surrounding Alfalfa. Largeranches and BLM land surround Millican, Brothers and Hampton.
Most of the land is used for dry land grazing. Well water provides irrigation for land adjacent to
Hampton. Millican, Brothers and Hampton are surrounded by land that is designatedas
antelope habitat. The area surroundingthese communities is sparsely populated. Each
community has a few residences within its boundary.
Community Boundaries
The Alfalfa Rural Service Center boundary includes 21.83 acres, with Willard Road as the
predominant northern boundary and the remainder surrounded by agriculturallands zoned
Exclusive Farm Use (EFU).
The Brothers Rural Service Center boundary includes 48. 95 acres. Highway20 bisects the
community from east to west, while Camp Creek Road enters from the north and connects
with the highway. The entire community is surrounded by agriculturalland zoned EFU.
The Hampton Rural Service Center boundary includes 35. 37 acres. Highway20 forms the
southern boundary with the remainder surrounded by agricultural lands zoned EFU.
The Millican Rural Service Center boundary includes 29.55 acres. Highway20 forms the northern
boundary with the remainder surrounded by agricultural lands zoned EFU.
cDEHSCHuTESCoo/uNNTYCporimEmEE,Nysiw
PLAN - 2011 33
Pa~ 2uOTL3~ RtXlll?3It tS i0 VfQltldflCS@(~TT=
SERVICE CENTERS
The Whistlestop Rural Service Center boundaryincludes 7. 93 acres. BurgessRoad runs
east/ west and dissects the community from north to south with forest and rural residential uses
to the north and east.
The Wildhunt Rural Service Center boundary includes 11.29 acres. Highway 97 forms the
western boundary. Highway 31 forms the southern boundary, with forest and rural residential
uses to the north and east.
Land Use Planning
The existing land uses in the eastern Rural Service Centers of Alfalfa, Brothers, Hamptonand
Millican are commercial and residential, surrounded by agriculture. In addition to a few
residences each of the communities includes commercial development. Alfalfa has a store/gas
station and a church/ communityhall. Brothers includes a school, a combination
market/cafe/post office/gas station, a state highway maintenance field office, and a highway rest
area. Hampton has a cafe and recreational vehicle park. Millican has a market/gas station.
The existing land uses in the rural Service Centers of Whistlestop and Wildhunt are
commercial and residential, surrounded by forest.
34 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 191 of 238 - Exhibit B to &6If1a 9" 1G8Qr
MANAGEMENT SECTION 4.8 RURAL SERVICE CENTERS
Seat" ovi, 4- 2 rzu. rn L servLae Cevuter T> oUaes
Goals and Policies
No goals have been defined for the Rural Service Centers.
Policy4. 8.1 Land use regulations shall conform to the requirements of OAR 660, Division 22
or any successor.
Policy 4. 8.2 Rural Service Center zoning shall be applied to Alfalfa and Brothers and shall
consist of three districts: Commercial/Mixed Use; Residential; and Open Space.
Policy 4. 8.3 Rural Service Center zoning shall be applied to Hampton, Whistlestop and
Wildhunt and shall consist of a single Commercial/Mixed Use District.
Policy 4. 8.4 The area in the Brothers Rural Service Center Boundary that is north of
Highway20 and east of CampCreek Road shall be zoned as Rural Service
Center - Open Space District ( RSC-OS).
Policy4. 8.5 In April 2002, Alfalfa area residents expressed a desire to keep the community
the way it is" and to limit commercial activity to 2- acressouth of Willard Road
that is the site of the Alfalfa CommunityStore and the community water system.
These two acres are designated as a mixed used commercial district in the
Comprehensive Plan and shall be zoned mixed use commercial. The remaining
20 acres of the Rural Service Center will continue to be zoned Rural Service
Center - Residential District, with a 5- acre minimum lot size. Since the Board of
County Commissioners finds it may be necessary to accommodate the need for
future commercial expansion 2 acres north of Willard Road are being designated
on the ComprehensivePlan for future commercial uses. A zone changeto mixed
use commercial can be considered only for a specific use and upon findings that
the existing commercial area is fully developed.
Policy 4. 8.6 County Comprehensive Plan policies and land use regulations shall ensure that
new uses authorized within the Alfalfa, Brothers, Hampton, Millican, Whistlestop
and Wildhunt Rural Service Centers do not adversely affect agriculturaland
forest uses in the surroundingareas.
Policy 4. 8.7 Zoning in the area shall promote the maintenance of the area's rural character.
New commercial uses shall be limited to small-scale, low impact uses that are
intended to serve the community and surroundingrural area or the travel needs
of people passingthrough the area. The commercial/mixed use zoning
regulations shall allow a mixed use of residential or small- scale commercial uses.
Policy 4. 9.8 Residential and commercial uses shall be served by DEQ approved on- site
sewage disposal systems.
Policy 4. 8.9 Residential and commercial uses shall be served by onsite wells or public water
systems.
Policy 4. 8. 10 Community water systems, motels, hotels and industrial uses shall not be
allowed.
DEESCHUTES
CouNTYComPREHEENpsswE
PUN- 2011
s
Fg e U00NE.R X I 1 is i0% TnSjR1dfR _T ft
SERVICE CENTERS
Policy 4. 8.11 Recreational vehicle or trailer parks and other uses catering to travelers shall be
permitted.
Policy4. 8.12 The County shall consider ways to improve services in the area consistent with
the level of population to be served.
Page
COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 201136
ASTER 44
WPage193 of 238 - Exhibit B to C] If1af1C~ WjG80.i
MANAGEMENT SECTION 4.8 RURAL SERvIcE CENTERS
Chapter4 prLvv,arUR.e ferewces
References'
1. Oregon Department of Land Conservation and Development. Goal 14: Urbanization.
Oregon's Statewide PlanningGoals and Guidelines.
2. Oregon Administrative Rule 660 particularly:
a. 660- 004 Goal 2 ExceptionProcess
b. 660-22 Unincorporated Communities
3. Bend Joint Management Agreement 98- 12331
4. La Pine IntergovernmentalAgreement2009-044
5. Redmond Joint ManagementAgreement2007-110
6. Sisters Joint ManagementAgreement November 9, 1998
7. Ordinance 2004-006, Adoption of Deschutes County Coordinated Population Forecast
8. Ordinances 2005-023 and 2005-024 Redmond Urban Reserves
9. Ordinances 2005-035, 2005-036, 2005-037, 2005-038, 2005-039, 2005-040, 2005-045
Sisters Urban Growth BoundaryAmendments
10. Ordinances 2006-018 and 2006-019 Redmond Urban Growth BoundaryAmendments
11. Ordinance 2009- 006 Adoption of a Coordinated Population Forecast for the City of La
Pine
12. Document 2009-051 Sisters Urban Growth Boundary Amendment for a Fire Training
Facility
13. City of Bend Community DevelopmentDepartment Bend ComprehensivePlan
14. City of Sisters Community Development Department Sisters ComprehensivePlan
15. City of Redmond Community DevelopmentDepartment Redmond ComprehensivePlan
The references listed are provided for the convenience of the public and are not legally adopted into this Plan.
DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011 37
CHAPTER 4 URtAN GROWTH MANAGEMENT REFERENCES
Page 194 of 238 - Exhibit 6 to Ordinance 2011- 003
j
j GOMPREt- fENSIVE
N' PLAN iLl7- D.4TE
Page 195 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance 2011- 003
J`^ eotiow5.:L Iwtroolu.Cti,Ow
Background
This chapter provides material that supplements the other chapters of the Plan. There are no
goals or policies in these sections.
Purpose
The purpose of this chapter is to provide a glossary, list all acknowledgedGoal 5 resources in
one location ( see Section 2.4) and list all Goal Exceptions. The final section in this Chapter is a
table to track all amendments to this Plan. This table will ensure a clear legislativehistory is
maintained.
The following information is covered in this chapter.
Glossary and Acronyms (Section 5.2)
Goal 5 Water Resources ( Section 5.3)
Goal 5 Wildlife Resources ( Section 5.4)
Goal 5 Open Spaceand Scenic Views and Sites Resources ( Section 5.5)
Goal 5 EnergyResources ( Section 5.6)
Goal 5 Wilderness, Natural Areas and Recreation Trails ( Section 5.7)
Goal 5 Surface Mining Resources ( Section 5.8)
Goal 5 Cultural and Historic Resources ( Section 5.9)
Goal Exception Statements ( Section 5. 10)
Goal 5 Adopted Ordinances ( Section 5. 11)
Ordinance History (Section 5. 12)
2 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 196 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinance 21 5 SunrrE *wAL SECnoNS SECTION 5.I INTRODUCTION
sect~ow 5. 2 e, LossarUawd . 4cvowUvu.s
Glossary
Note: Terms defined in Deschutes CountyCode 18.04 ( Zoning Code) are not repeated here, but have
the same meaning as DCC 18. 04.
Agricultural-tourism" or " Agri- tourism" means a commercial enterprise at a working farm or
ranch, operated in conjunction with the primary farm or ranch use, conducted for the
enjoyment and/or education of visitors, that promotes successful agriculture, generates
supplemental income for the owner and complies with Oregon Statute and Rule.
Aquifer" means a water-bearingrock, rock formation or a group of formations.
Common Area" means ` common property' as defined in the Oregon Planned Communities
Act at ORS 94. 550(7).
Community facilities" means public or privately owned facilities used by the public, such as
streets, schools, libraries, parks and playgrounds; also facilities owned and operated by non-
profit private agencies such as churches, settlement houses and neighborhoodassociations.
Comprehensive Plan" means a generalized, coordinated land use map and policy statement of
the governing body of a state agency, city, county or special district that interrelates all
functional and natural systems and activities relatingto the use of lands, includingbut not
limited to sewer and water, transportation, educational and recreational systems and natural
resources and air and water quality management programs. " Comprehensive" means all-
inclusive, both in terms of the geographicarea covered and functional and natural activities and
systems occurring in the area covered by the plan. "Generalized" mean a summary of policies
and proposals in broad categories and does not necessarily indicate specific locations of any
area, activity or use. A plan is "coordinated" when the needs of all levels of governments, semi-
publicand private agenciesand the citizens have been considered and accommodated as much
as possible. "Land" includes water, both surface and subsurface, and the air.
Conservation" means limiting or minimizing the use or depletion of natural resources,
includingsuch things as land, energy, water or wildlife habitat.
Ecosystem" means the physicaland biologicalcomponents and processes occurring in a given
area, which interact to create a dynamic equilibrium.
Findings" means a fact, determination or reason, based on existing information, which, by itself
or in conjunction with other findings, leads to a particular conclusion or course of action.
Goal Exception" means a land use process through which a local jurisdiction justifies, based on
factual evidence, that a policy embodied in a particular statewide planninggoal should not apply
to a particular property or set of properties.
Green design" means design and construction practices that significantly reduce the negative
impacts of buildingson the environment and occupants.
DESCHuTEs
CUouNTY
COM REHENsivEPLAN- 22011
xAp~
PareOT MN1nA i tS iO~ VfQIf1aT1 ~ UU3DACRONYMS
Groundwater" means water beneath the earth's surface between saturated soil and rock that
supplieswells and springs.
Habitat" means a place that provides seasonal or year- round food, water, shelter and other
necessities for an organism, community or population of plants and animals.
In- stream" as defined in ORS 537.332, means within the natural stream channel or lake bed or
place where water naturally flows or occurs.
Instream flow" means the minimum quantity of water necessary to support the public use
requested by an agency.
Police power" means the inherent right of a government to restrict an individual's conduct or
his use of his property in order to protect the health, safety, welfare and morals of the
community. In the United States, this power must relate reasonablyto these ends and must
follow due processes of the law; but unlike the exercise of the State's power of eminent
domain, no compensation need be paid for losses incurred as a result of police power
regulation.
Post- acknowledgementplan amendment" means an amendment to an adopted and
acknowledged Comprehensive Plan.
Resort community" means an unincorporated community that was established primarily for
and continues to be used primarily for recreation and resort purposes. It includes residential
and commercial uses and provides for both temporary and permanent residential occupancy,
including overnight lodging and accommodations.
Riparian:(zone, habitat, or vegetation)" means of or pertaining to the bank of a river, or of a
pond or small lake. Riparian habitat is riverbank vegetative cover and food for many wildlife
species.
Rural lands" means those lands outside recognized urban growth boundaries which are
necessary and suitable for such uses as:
A. Exclusive farm use;
B. General agriculture;
C. Forest;
D. Rural residential;
E. Rural service center;
F. Destination resort, dude ranch, planned community;
G. Landscapemanagement;
H. Special interest;
1. Open space;
J. Fish and wildlife protective area;
K. Recreation;
L. Surface mining.
Industrial, commercial and urban and suburban residential uses are not generally appropriate on
rural lands.
Rural service center" means an unincorporated convenience- commercial and residential
center of a nature and size only as required to serve the convenience- commercial needs of the
4 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 198 of 238 - Exhibit B to Or& 184PNt6rALSECTIONS SECTION S.2 GLOSSARY AND ACRONYMS
surrounding rural lands. Planningarea boundaries are not the boundaries for rural service
centers.
Special District" means any unit of local government, other than a city or county, authorized
and regulatedby statute, which includes but is not limited to water control, irrigation, port
districts, fire, hospital, mass transit and sanitary districts, as well as regionalair quality control
authorities.
Statewide Planning Goals" means the 19 statewide planning standards adopted by the Land
Conservation and Development Commission pursuant to OAR 660- 015 to express Statewide
policies on land use and related topics. Local comprehensive plans must be consistent with the
statewide planninggoals.
Surface mining" means all or any part of the process of mining by removal of the overburden
and extraction of natural mineral deposits.
Urban Growth Boundary" (UGB) means a boundary established to identify for each city, the
land area needed to accommodate 20 years of growth for the city, which is determined to be
necessary and suitable for future urban uses capable of being served by urban facilities and
services.
Urbanized lands" means those lands within the urban growth boundaries which can be served
by urban services and facilities and are necessary and suitable for future expansion of an urban
area.
Urban Reserve Area" means a boundary established to identify for each city, the land area
needed to accommodate from 20- 50 years of growth for the city.
Frequently Used Acronyms
BLM" stands for Bureau of Land Management
CCI" stands for Committee for Community Involvement
DCC" stands for Deschutes County Code
DLCD" stands for Oregon Departmentof Land Conservation and Development.
DEQ" stands for Oregon Departmentof Environmental Quality
TOGAMI" stands for Oregon Department of Geologyand Mineral Industries
ESA" stands for the federal EndangeredSpeciesAct
ESEE" stands for Economic, Social, Environmental and Energyin regards to required Goal 5
analyses
FEMA" stands for Federal EmergencyManagement Agency
CDC" stands for Oregon Land Conservation and DevelopmentCommission
NOAA" stands for National Oceanic Atmospheric Administration
OAR" stands for Oregon Administrative Rules
ODFW" stands for Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife
ORS" stands for Oregon Revised Statute
DEESCHUTESCOUNTY COMPREHENSIVERaw 22011
X p~
Pa~ O~- tRfffQI t5 iOSVECt aT J0My~~"I l bff
ACRONYMS
OWRD" stands for Oregon Water Resources Department
RPS" stands for RegionalProblem Solving
TSP" stands for Transportation System Plan
UGB" stands for Urban Growth Boundary
URA" stands for Urban Reserve Area
USES" stands for United States Forest Service
USFWS" stands for United States Fish and Wildlife Service
USGS" stands for United States Geological Survey
6
E~ pp~
DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 200 of 238 - Exhibit B to Or&ymr 2 1SUvl "I "TTAL
SECTIONS SECTION S.2 GLOSSARY AND ACRONYMS
SCCtLOw 5. 3 GOAL5 IwVCnt0Yu
water Resources
Background
This section contains information from the 1979 Deschutes County Comprehensive Plan as
revised and the 1986 Deschutes County/City of Bend River Study. It lists the water resources
in Deschutes County. These inventories have been acknowledged by the Department of Land
Conservation and Development as complying with Goal S. No changeshave been proposed for
the 2010 Comprehensive Plan update.
Goal 5 requires the following water resources be inventoried and the inventories are listed
below.
Riparian corridors, including water and riparian areas and fish habitat
Wetlands
Federal Wild and Scenic Rivers
State Scenic Waterways
Groundwater Resources
Also included in these inventories are SignificantLakes and Reservoirs.
Riparian Corridors
Inventories
Table 5. 3.1 Deschutes County River Miles
Waterway Miles
Deschutes River 97
Uttle Deschutes River 42
Whychus Creek ( lower 6 miles in JeffersonCounty) 39
umalo Creek 16
Paulina Creek 10
II River 8
Crooked River 7
Source. Deschutes County/City of Bend River Study I M
Table 5. 3.2 Deschutes County Goal 5 Riparian Inventory
Streams Riporien Acres
Deschutes River 1, 440
Uttle Deschutes River 2, 920
ulina Creek 846
Indian Ford Creek 573
Tumalo reek 50
Fall Creek 47
Source: 1979 Deschutes County Comprehensive Plan as revised and Deschutes County/City of Bend River Study 1986
Diyscmuns
COUNTY
COMPR04EpN~SPA
PR/w 2011 7
Pa~ 2ZU1sOTL AIC31itf iOSVfalf JMJ~ N61ITOlUE3
Table 3. 3.3 Deschutes County Goal 3 Floodplains Adjacent to Riven and Streams
eschutes River Little Deschutes River
Crooked River Spring River
Dry River Paulin Creek
Indian Ford Creek Lon Prairie
Whychus Creek
Source: 1979 Deschutes County Comprehensive Plan as revised and Federal EmergencyManagement
Agency maps
Table S. 3.4 Deschutes County Goal S Perennial Streams
Bottle Creek Full Creek Spring Creek
BridgeCreek Goose Creek Three Creek
Brush Draw Indian Ford Creek SF Tumalo Creek
Bull Creek Jack Creek NF Whychus Creek
Cache Creek Kaleetan Creek Soda Crater Creek
Charlton Creek Metolius Creek NF Trout Creek
Cukus Creek Park Creek EF NF Tumalo Creek
Cukus River Park Creek WF MF Tumalo Creek
Deer Creek Pole Creek First Creek
Dry Creek Rock Creek Soap Creek
Fall Creek Snow Creek Todd Lake Creek
Note: AM of these streams, except portions of Indian Ford Creek. Cache Creek and Dry Creek, are located on federal land and
are subject to either the Deschutes National Forest or the Bureau of Land Management Resource Management Plans.
Source: 1979 Deschutes County Comprehensive Plan as revised
Table 3. 3.3 Deschutes County Riparian Ownership
River or Stream Ownership
Deschutes River Private/ Federal
Little Deschutes River Private/ Federal
Fall River Private/ Federal
Tumalo Creek Private/ Federal
Three Creek Private/ Federal
Whychus Creek Private/ Federal
Trout Creek Private/ Federal
Dry Creek Private/ Federal
Cache Creek Private/ Federal
Indian Ford Creek Private/ Federal
Cukus River Federal
Charlton Creek Federal
Deer Creek Federal
Cukus Creek Federal
Quinn Creek Federal
Fall Creek Federal
Moore Creek Federal
Source: 1979 Deschutes County Comprehensive Plan as revised
8
5
DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 202 of 238 - Exhibit B to OrdinanCCCKM" U
MENTAL SECTIONS SECTION 5.3 WATER INvENTOR1Es
Wetlands
Inventory: In 1992 Deschutes County Ordinance 92- 045 adopted all wetlands identified on the
U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service National Wetland Inventory Mapsas the Deschutes County
wetland inventory. As of 2010 a Local Wetlands Inventory was beingpreparedto provide more
detailed accurate information for south Deschutes County.
Federal Wild and Scenic Rivers
Inventory: The following segments of the Deschutes River have been designatedas Federal
Recreation and Scenic rivers by the passage of the 1988 Omnibus Oregon Wild and Scenic
Rivers Act of 1988. Congressmandates the US Forest Service to prepare a management plan
for these segments of the Deschutes River.
Table 5. 3.6 Deschutes County Wild and Scenic River Segments
Waterway Description
Deschutes River From Wickiup Dam to Fall River ( 22 miles)
Deschutes River Fall River to N boundary Sun River ( 20 miles)
Deschutes River N boundary Sun River to Bend UGB 13 miles)
Whychus Creek ( formerly
Squaw Creek)
Includes all tributaries within the Three Sisters Wilderness, Soap Creek
and the main stem from the wilderness boundary to the stream flow gauge
station
Source: County Ordinance 92- 052
Oregon Scenic Waterways
Inventory. The following segments of the Deschutes River have been designated as State Scenic
Waterways by the State Legislature or a 1988 Ballot.
Table 5. 3.7 Deschutes County Oregon Scenic Waterway Segments
Waterway Des ion
Deschutes River From Little Lava Lake to Crane Prairie Reservoir ( 12 miles)
Deschutes River* From Wickiu Dam to General Patch Bridle 28 miles)
Deschutes River From Harper Bride to the COI diversion ( 21 miles)
Deschutes Rivee From Sawyer Park to umalo State Park (5 miles
Deschutes River From Upper Deschutes Market Road to the County line ( 28 miles)
Little Deschutes 12 miles
Source: County Ordinance 92- 052
Groundwater Resources
Inventory: Groundwater in the Deschutes River Basin in Deschutes County connects with
surface water accordingto the U.S. GeologicalSurvey.
Landscape Management Rivers and Streams
Inventory: Please see Section 5.5 of this Plan for the list of LandscapeManagement Rivers and
Streams.
Significant Lakes and Reservoirs
Inventory: The following lakes are significant open space resources in the county. The land
adjacent to the lakes is also an important open space and a recreational resource. All of the
inventoried lakes and reservoirs except parts of Tumalo Reservoir are under federal ownership
and management.
DtseHum CowNm CoMnw4msrvE PLAN -
20111y
F9TeT ~"8M"~ tAf ~ SC71gTf1a11~MJ 16MTOPIII
Table 3. 3.8 Deschutes County Significant Lakes and Reservoirs
River or Stream Township Ran Section
Bobby Lake T 22S R 06E 14
Chariton Lake T 21S R 06E 14
Crane Prairie Reservoir T 21 R 08E 16
Cultus Lake T 20S R 07E 24
Deer Lake T 20S R 07E
Devils Lake T 18S R 08E NWI/2 SEC. 10
Davis Lake T 22S R 07E
East Lake T 21S R 13E 31
Elk Lake T 18S/ 19S R 07E 5
Hosmer Lake T 19S R 08E 4
Lava Lake T 19S R 08E 22
Little Cultus Lake T 20S R 07E
Little Lava Lak T 19S R 08E 22
North Twin Lake T 21 S R 08E 28
Paulin Lake T 21 S R 12E 84
South Twin Lake T 21S R 08E 28
SparksLake T 18S R 08E 23
Three Creeks Lake T 17S R 09E 14
Todd Lake T 18S R 09E 8
Upper umalo Reservoir T 16S R HEE 33
Winopee Lake T 19S R HEE 33
Wickiup Reservoir T 22S R 09E 7
Source: UeSChutel County Urdinance 92- 052
10 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 204 of 238 - Exhibit B to OrdinanCB b~ IM.EMENTAL SECTIONS SECTION S.3 WATER INVENTORIES
sect Low 5. 4 coal 5 Iwvewtor~
w' UdLLfeftaUtat
Background
This section contains wildlife resource information from the 1979 Deschutes County
Comprehensive Plan as revised. These inventories have been acknowledged by the Department
of Land Conservation and Development as complyingwith Goal S. No changeshave been
proposed for the 2010 Comprehensive Plan update. However, an updated inventory has been
provided as described in Section 2.6 of this Plan and will be incorporated at a later date.
Table 5. 4.1 - Bird Inventory
Birds
Selected Ust 1992
Use Period
S = Summer
W = Winter
X = Year round
Relative Abundance
A = Abundant
C = Common
F = Few
R = Rare
U = Unknown
American Avocet S F
American Bittern S F
American Coot X C
American Goldfinch S C
American Destrel X C
American Widgeon X C
Anna's Hummingbird S F
Ash- throated Flycatcher S F
Bald Eagle X F
Bank Swallow S F
Barn Owl X C
Barn Swallow S C
Barred Owl X U
Belted Kingfisher X
Bewick's Wren X F
Black- backed Woodpecker X
Black- billed Ma ie X C
Black-cappedChickadee W F
Black- chinned Hummingbird S F
Black- crowned Night Heron S F
Black- headed Grosbeak S F
Black- throated Grey Warble S F
Blue Grouse X F
Blue- wingedTeal S F
Bohemian Waxwing W F
Boreal Owl X F
Brewer's Blackbird X C
Brewers Sparrow S
Brown Creeper X F
CCDEHuuTis
Cour m CommmtNsPA PLAN
220./1y1y~~ ~ y~
RTONTJ 0~ AIDliltfiOS67&AaT1C@ZM" NTORIES
Birds
Selected List 1992
Use Period
S = Summer
W s Winter
X = Year round
Relative Abundance
A = Abundant
C = Common
F = Few
R = Rare
U = Unknown
Brown- headed Cowbird S C
Buff ahead X C
Burrowing Owl S R
California ValleyQuail X C
Calliope Hummingbird
Canada Goose X C
Canyon Wren X C
CaspianTern S F
Cassin's Finch X C
Cedar Waxwing X C
hippingSparrow S C
Chukar Partridge X R
alifornia Gull X C
Clark's Nutcracker X C
Cliff Swallow S
Common Bushitit X C
Common Crow X R
Common Loon S R
Common Merganser X C
Common Nighthawk S C
Common Raven X C
Common Snipe S F
Coopers Hawk X C
Dark - eyed junco X A
Dipper X F
Double- crested Cormorant S C
owny Woodpecker X C
Dusky Flycatcher S F
Eared Grebe W F
Eastern Kingbird S F
EveningGrosbeak X C
Ferru inous Hawk S F
Flammulated Owl S
Fox Sparrow S C
Franklin's Gull S F
Gadwall W F
olden Eagle X
Golden- crowned Kinglet X F
Goldeneye X C
Goshawk X F
GrayJay X C
Gray Partridge X R
House Sparrow X C
12 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 206 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinan(?Ml'I~-
EMENITAL SECTIONS SECTION 5.4 WILOUFE INVENTORIES
Birds
Selected List 1992
Use Period
S = Summer
W = Winter
X = Year round
Relative Abundance
A = Abundant
C = Common
F = Few
R = Rare
U = Unknown
House Wren S F
Killdeer X C
Lark Sparrow S F
Lazuli Ben in S F
Least Sandpiper S F
Lesser Goldfinch X R
Lesser Scaup W C
Lewis' Woodpecker S F
Lincoln's Sparrow X F
Loggerhead Shrike X F
Long-billed Curlew S R
Lon - billed Marsh Wren S F
Lon - eared Owl X F
MacGillivray's Warbler S F
Mallard X C
Merlin W R
Mountain Bluebird X C
Mountain Chickadee X C
Mourning Dove X C
Nashville Warbler X F
Northern Harrier X F
Northern Oriole S F
Northern Phalarope S F
Three- toed Woodpecker X F
Olive- sided Flycathcer S C
Oran e- crownedWarbler S F
Osprey S C
Per ine Falcon X R
Piloted Woodpecker X F
Pine Grosbeak X R
Pine Siskin X C
Pinon Jay X C
Pintail W C
Prairie Falcon X C
Purple Finch X F
PygmyNuthatch X C
PygmyOwl X F
Red Crossbill X F
Red- breasted Nuthatch X C
Redhead W F
Red- shafted Flicker X C
Red- tailed Hawk X C
Red- wingedBlackbird X C
CDEESCHUTES
COUNTY
COMSMIEEHHENSWE
PLAN - 2011 13
PHVOrMNTEAkAf1L t5NSLOSVfQIf1a71C@Z[ 7 (
TORIES
Birds
Selected List 1992
Use Period
S = Summer
W = Winter
X = Year round
Relative Abundance
A = Abundant
C = Common
F = Few
R = Rare
U = Unknown
Ring-billed Gull X C
Ring-neck Duck W F
Ring- necked Pheasant X F
Robin X C
Rock Dove X C
Rock Wren S C
Rosy Finch X R
Rough-legged Hawk W C
Rough-winged Swallow S F
Ruby- crownedKinglet X F
Ruffed Grouse X F
Rufoous Hummingbird S F
Rufous- sided Towhee X F
SageGrouse X F
SateSparrow S R
Sale Trasher S C
Sandhill Crane S F
Son Sparrow X F
Sora S F
Spotted Owl X F
SpottedSandpiper S F
Starlin X C
Steller's Jay X F
Swainson's Hawk S R
Swainson's Thrush S F
Townsend: Solitaire X C
Tree Swallow S C
Turk X C
Turkey Vulture S C
Varied Thrush X F
Vaux s Swift S F
Vesper Sparrow S F
Violet - green Swallow S C
Virginia Rail S F
Warbling Vireo S
Water Pipit X F
Western Bluebird S F
Western Flycatcher S F
Western Grebe S C
Western Kingbird S
Western Meadowlark S C
Western Sandpiper S F
Western T er S F
14 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 208 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinange 1U"I U
MENTAL SECTIONS SECTION SA WILDl1FE INVENTORIES
Birds
Selected List 1992
Use Period
S = Summer
W = Winter
X = Year round
Relative Abundance
A = Abundant
C = Common
F = Few
R = Rare
U = Unknown
Western Wood Pewee S F
White- breasted Nuthatch X F
White- crowned Sparrow S F
White- headed Woodpecker X F
Wigeon X F
Williamson's Sapsucker X F
Willow Flycatcher R
Wilson's Phalarope S R
Wilson's Warbler S F
Winter Wren X F
Wood Duck S F
Yellow Warbler S F
Yellow bellied Sapsucker X F
Yellow- headed blackbird S F
Yellowthroat S F
Source: 1979 Deschutes County Comprehensive Plan as revised
Table S. 4.2 - Amphibian and Reptile Inventory
Amphibians and Reptiles
Selected List 1992
Use Period
S = Summer
W = Winter
X = Year round
Rotative Abundance
A = Abundant
C = Common
F = Few
R = Rare
U = Unknown
Bullfrog X F
Cascades Fro X F
N. GrasshopperMouse X F
Northern Water Shrew X F
Norway Rat X F
N. Pocket Gopher X U
Ord's KangarooRat X C
cific Mole X U
Pallid Bat S U
Pine Marten X C
Pinon Mouse X F
Porcupine X C
PronghornAntelope X C
Raccoon X C
Red Fox X F
River Otter X C
Rocky Mtn Elk X C
Roosevelt Elk X C
Sagebrush Vole X C
CDEESCHUTESCuOUNTYNC~Oq~MPREMEpN/SSPA
PLAN - 2011 Is
P9C20~- CXr11Qli n iOsVfQIf1aT1C@Z[TTORIES
Amphibians and Reptiles
Selected List 1992
Use Period
S = Summer
W = Winter
X = Year round
Relative Abundance
A = Abundant
C = Common
F = Few
R = Rare
U = Unknown
Shorttail Weasel X F
Silver- haired Bat S U
Small- footed M otis S U
Snowshoe Hare X F
Striped Skunk X C
Townsend Ground Squirrel X C
Townsends Big- earedBat X F
Trowbridge Shrew X F
Vagrant Shrew X U
Water Vole X C
Western Gray Squirrel X C
Western Harvest Mouse X C
Western jumping Mouse X F
Western Pipistrel S U
Whitetail jackrabbit X R
Wolverine X R
Yellow Pine Chipmunk X C
Yellow- bellied Marmot X F
Yama Myotis X F
Common Garter Snake X F
Ensatina X R
Gopher Snake X C
Great Basin Spadefoot Toad X
Long-toed Salamander X F
Night Snake X U
Northern alligator Lizard X F
Pacific Tree Fro X C
Racer X F
Red-leggedFro X F
Roza skin Newt X R
Rubber Boa X F
SagebrushLizard X F
Sharp-tailed Snake X U
Short- horned Lizard X R
Side- blotched Lizard X U
Spotted Frog X F
StripedWhipsnake X U
Tailed Fro X F
Western Fence Lizard X C
Western Rattlesnake X
Western Skink X F
Western Toad X
Source. 1979 Deschutes County Comprehensive Plan as revised
16 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 210 of 238 - Exhibit B to OrdinanWIffl'h-
MNTAL SECTIONS SECTION 5.4 WILDLIFE INVENTORIES
Table 5. 4.3 - Goal S Fish Distribution Inventory
e
10 C
OA
u ac
ae O
Tyee Creek
Hell Creek 2
Spring River 2 2 1 2 1
Tumalo Creek 1 2
Bridge Creek 2
Fall Creek 2
Satan Creek 2
Soda Creek 2
Crater Creek 2
Goose Creek 2
Indian Ford Creek 1 2 2
Trout Creek I
Alder Creek I
Whychus Creek I 2
Pole Creek 2
Snow Creek I 2
Deschutes River 3 2 2 3 1 2 1
Utde Deschutes River 1 2 2 I 2 2 1
Park Creek 2
Three Creeks Creek 3 3
Sink Creek 2
Deer Creek 1 2
Quinn River 2 2 1 2 1
Quinn Creek 3 2
ultus Creek 2
Cukus Lake, Big 3 2 2 1 2 1
Cultus Lake, Uttle 2 3
Cukus River 2 2 1
Moore Creek 2
Charlton Creek 2
Long Prairie Slough 2 2
Browns Creek 2 2 2 I 1
A River 2 2 I 2 1
Paulin Creek 3 2 1
Cache Creek 1
Crane Prairie Res. 2 1 2 2 1
Wickiup Reservoir 3 3 I 2 1
three Creeks lake 3 3
Dews Lake 3 2
Hosmer Lake 3 3 I
Irish Lake 3
I - Native, naturally reproducing
2 - Introduced, naturally reproducing
3 - Introduced, periodic stocking required to maintain population
I and 3
2and3
Source: 1979 Deschutes County ComprehensivePlan as revised
DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVEPLAN - 2011 17
gaT S8~ NT~1 I
I
16M~t
IV +
IfE INTONESF E,t
Table S. 4.4 Recommended Minimum Flows for Fish Life
Stream Jan Feb Mar Apr M June July Au Sept Oct Nov Dec
Deschutes River ( 1) 200 200 200 200 200 200 200 200 200 200 200 200
Deschutes River ( 2) 400 400 400 400 400 400 400 400 400 400 400 400
Deschutes River ( 3) 660 660 660 660 660 660 660 660 660 660 660 660
Deschutes River ( 4) 300 300 300 300 300 300 300 300 300 300 300 300
Deschutes River ( 5 80 80 80 80 80 80 80 80 80 80 80 80
Deschutes River ( 6) 40 40 60 60 60 40 40 40 60 60 60 60
Wh thus Creek ( 7) 20 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10/ 20 30 20 20
Whychus Creek ( 8) 10 10/20 30 30 30 20 10 10 10 10 10 10
Indian Ford Creek 4 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3/4 6 4 4
Tumalo Creek 35 35 47 47 47 5 10 10 10/35 47 35 35
SpringRiver 300 300 300 300 300 300 300 300 300 300 300 300
little Deschutes River 80 80 80 200 200 150 100 100 100 100 200 200
Fall River 70 70 100 100 100 70 50 50 50 100 100 100
Browns Creek 15 15 25 25 25 15 15 15 25 25 25 25
Quinn River 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20
Cultus Creek 20 20 32 32 32 20 5 5 5/ 20 32 20 20
Cultus River 0 50 50 50 50 50 50 50 70 70 70 70
Snow Creek 1 15 30 30 30 20 IS 15 15 30 30 20
Quinn Creek 20 20 20 12 12 12 12 12 35 35 3
Soda Creek 20 20 20 6 6 6 6 6 31 31 31
II Creek 35 35 35 20 20 20 20 20
E20/35
46 46 46
Goose Creek 7 7 7 4 4 4 4 4 10 10 10
hree Creek 7 7 10 10 10 7 2 2 10 7 7
Rows are expressed in cubic feet Der se cond. Th e recomme nded flo ws shoul d arrive at t he point of recomme ndation an d continu e to the mo uth of
the stream or to the next point for which a different flow is recommended. Stream flows recommended in Appendix I are designed for fame fish
production and are not necessarily adequate for wildlife, especially waterfowl and furbearers. Neither would they necessarily be recommended below
future impoundment.
1) Bend to Round Butte Reservoir
2) L. Deschutes R. to Spring River
3) Spring River to Bend
4) Widdip Dam to Little Deschutes River
5) Crane Prairie Dam to Wickiup Reservoir
6) At USGS Gate 14- 0500
7) Below USGS Gage 14- 0750
B) Below Camp Polk
Source: 1979 Deschutes County Comprehensive Plan as revised
18 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 212 of 238 - Exhibit B to OrdinancM WMENTALSECTIONS SECTION 5.4 WILDLIFE INVENTORIES
Table 5. 4.5 - Instream Water Right Program ( 311192) Database Summary Report
BASIN STREAM > PARENT UPSTREAM DOWNSTAIAM APP
0S STREAM LIMIT LIMIT
SPECIES
NO.
CERT;a DATE
Deschutes R > It6, BT,
05
Columbia R Crn Prairie Res Wickiup Res BR, CO, 070764 10/ 11/90
K
05
Deschutes R >
Little Lava Lk Crn Prairie Res
RB, BT,
070763 10/ 11/90Columbia R K, WF
05
Deschutes R >
193.0 190 0 MPS 59777 11/ 03/83
Columbia R
05
Deschutes R >
2270 193 0 MPS 59776 11/ 03/83Columbia R
05
Deschutes R >
190.0 165 0 MPS 59778 11/ 03/83Columbia R
05 Fall R > Deschutes R Gage 14057500 Mouth RB, BT, 070762 10/ 11/90
BR, WF
05
Indian Ford Cr > Whychus Headwaters Mouth RB 070760 10/ 11/90
05
Little Deschutes R >
Crescent Cr Mouth KB, BT, 070757 10/ 11/90
Deschutes R BR, WF
05 Metolius R > Deschutes R Metolius Spring CanyonCr BUT, K 070699 09/ 24/90
05 Snow Cr > Deschutes R Headwaters Mouth RB, BT 070756 10/ 11/90
05 Whychus Cr> Deschutes S k Whychus Indian Ford Cr KB, BT 070754 10/ 11/90
R Cf
05 Tumalo Cr > Deschutes R S Fk Tumalo Cr Mouth RBB, BT,
070752 10/ 11/90
B
Source: I! Deschutes County Comorehe nsive Plan as revised
Bird Sites - source: 1979 Deschutes County Comprehensive Plan as revised
Bald EagleHabitat Sites on Non- Federal Land or with Non- Federal Sensitive Habitat Areas.
Site # Taxlot Quarter Section Site Name
DE003S-00 15- 10400-1400 23NWNE Cloverdale NW
DE0035-01 I5- 10-00- 1400 23NENE Cloverdale NE
The Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife ( ODFW) has identified two bald eagle nests in
Township 15S, RangeI OE, Section 23, Tax Lot 1400. The ODFW identifiers for these sites are
DE0035-00 and DE0035-01. The sites are also known as Cloverdale. The sites are described
in the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife Central RegionAdministrative Report No. 93-1.
The sensitive habitat area is identified as the area east of Highway 20 that is within a 1/ 4-mile
radius of each nest site.
Site # Taxlot Site Name
DE0036-00 17S- I I E- 26-5900 Shevlin Park
The Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife ( ODFW) has inventoried a former bald eagle nest
site in Township 17S, Range1 I E, Section 26, Tax Lot S900. The ODFW identifier for this site
is DE0036-00. The site is also known as Shevlin Park. The site is described in the Oregon
Department of Fish and Wildlife Central RegionAdministrative Report No. 93-1.
DESCHUTEs COUNTY COMPREHENSIVEPLAN - 2011 19
Fgre "UrMf!V Afffiff% S678%M E(% V1NTORIES
Site # Taxlot Site Name
DE0037-00 22S- 09E404-4500 Wickiup Reservoir
The Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife ( ODFW) has identified a bald eagle nest in
Township22S, Range09E, Section 04, Tax Lot 500. The ODFW identifier for this site is
DE0037-00, Wickiup Reservoir. The site is described in the Oregon Department of Fish and
Wildlife Central RegionAdministrative Report No. 93-1.
Site # Taxlot Site Name
DE00383-00 22S- 09E-34- 500 Haner Park
The Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife ( ODFW) has identified a bald eagle nest in
Township22S, Range09E, Section 34, Tax Lot 500. The ODFW identifier for this site is
DE0038-00, Haner Park. The site is described in the Oregon Departmentof Fish and Wildlife
Central Region Administrative Report No. 93-[. The sensitive habitat area includes the area
within one- quarter mile of the nest site.
Site # Taxlot Site Name
DE0039-00 22S- 09E-06- 500 Wickiup Dam
The Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife ( ODFW) has identified a bald eagle nest in
Township22S, Range09E, Section 06, Tax Lot 500. The ODFW identifier for this site is
DE0039-00, Wickiup Dam. The site is described in the Oregon Departmentof Fish and
Wildlife Central Region Administrative Report No. 93-1.
Site # Taxlot Quarter Section Site Name
DE0046-00 20- 10-34- 3401 34NWSE Bates Butte
The Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife ( ODFW) has identified a bald eaglenest in
Township 20S, Range I OE, Section 34, Tax Lot 3401. The ODFW identifier for this site is
DE0046-00, Bates Butte. The site is described in the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife
Central RegionAdministrative Report No. 93-1. The sensitive habitat area includes the area
within one- quarter mile of the nest site.
Great Blue Heron Rookery - Black Butte Ranch
The Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife ( ODFW) identified a great blue heron rookery in
Township 14S, Range9E, Section 10 SENE. The County inventoried and adopted this site as a
Goal 5 resources in Ordinance 92- 041.
20 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 214 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinan j' _b
EMENTAL SECTIONS SECTION S.4 WILDLIFE INVENTORIES
Golden EagleSites
Table S. 4.6 - Golden Eagle Nest Site Inventory on Non- Federal Land or with Non- Federal
Sensitive Habitat Area
ODFW Site ax of Quarter Section General Location
DE- 000T-W 14- 13-11 - 1 1 r1SENW Smith Rock tats Park
Smith Rock State Park
DE- 0002- 02 14- 13-11- 100 1 I/ SENW Smith Rock State Park
DE- 0002-03 14- 13-11- 100 1 I/ NWNE Smith Rock tate ftrk
DE- 0002-04 14- 13-11- 100 1 I/ NWNE Rock Late ParkSmith
Smith Rock State Park
DE- 0002-06 14- 13-11- 100 1 I/ NWNE Smith Rock State r
6. i Deschutes
DE- 000W 15- 124M). 15 35/ SENE i Deschutes
DE- 0006-02 15- 124X)- 1502 35/ SENE Mid Deschutes
DE- 0006-04 15- 12-M 1502 79RWE i Deschutes
i Deschutes
DE- 0009-OU 14- 12-2213- 300 23/ NWSW N. Odin Falls
DE- 001 1- 00 15- 124)0- 100 I/ NWSE Radio ower esc utes
Radio Tower/ Deschutes
DE-00 17-M 15- 11-00- 800 37NIW Upper DM-Ca-n-yon
umao am
DE 0015-01 14- 114X)-400 3/ NENW c us Creek
W 14- 11-00- 400 3/ SESW imro Ranch
DE- 0029-00 20- 17-00- 3801 1671WM Twin Pines
DE- 0034-01 IS- 10- 00-1400 15/ SENW Lazy Z/ USFS
urce: es utes ounty ompre ensive an as rewse
Table 5. 4.7 - Prairie Fakon Nest Site Inventory on Non- Federal Land or with Non- Federal
Sensitive Habitat Area
ODFW Site ax of quarter action General Location
Dickerson at
DIE 003 1 -00 16.1 14) O.S600 201NESE umao am
DIE 003 1 -OF 16- 11-20- 40U 20/ SESW - umao am
Smith Rock State r
Source: H/ 7 Deschutes c= ountyc: omprenensiveman as revised
Table 5. 4.8- Osprey Nest Site Inventory on Non- Federal Land or with Non- Federal
Sensitive Habitat Area
LU
DESCHUTEs CouNTY
COMIuws
ppaW PLAN
22041
1 21
IES
8PYMN1hAfi f3 i~ SVfQIfIa11Cft"l 3NTORIES
Table 5. 4.9 - Upland Game Bird Habitat
Ring-neckedPheasant 200
Valley Quail 10, 000
Mountain Quail 50
Chukar Partridge 300
Turkey 50
Blue Grouse 900
SageGrouse 1, 800
Ruffed Grouse 100
Mourning Dove 8, 000
Source: 1979 Deschutes County Comprehensive Plan as revised
Table 5. 4.10 - Sage Grouse Lek Inventory on Non- Federal Lands or with Non- Federal
Sensitive Habitat Areas
ODFW Site ox of Quarter Section General Location
DE 0994ZT 20- 184)0. 700 05/ SWS Circle Reservoir
DE 0995-01 20- 19-M80U 06/ NWSE- Merril
DE 0996-01 22- 17-00- 600 06/ SWSW Dickerson Well
DE 0997-01 20- 16-00- 2 25/ SENW o It Ranch
DE 0997-02 16- M2400 o It anc Satellite
DE 0990-0 1 20- 144X)-400 vans e
DE 0998-02 20- l4-00- 40V__ WSWNW Evans Well Satellite
DE 099S- 6T 19- 14-00- 2206-- 26/ SESE i ican it
Source: 1777 Deschutes County Comprehensive Plan as revised
22 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 216 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinan(?MjJ_
MENTAL SECTIONS SECTION 5.4 WILDLIFE INVENTORIES
Sect~ow 5. 5 e~oA~ 6 Iwvewtor~
opew spaces, scewLc views awd sites
Background
This section contains information from the 1979 Deschutes County Comprehensive Plan as
revised. It lists the open spaces, scenic views and sites resources in Deschutes County. These
inventories have been acknowledgedby the Department of Land Conservation and
Developmentas complying with Goal 5. No changeshave been proposed for the 2010
Comprehensive Plan update.
To protect scenic views, landscapemanagement areas have been defined and a combiningzone
created. On lands outside urban growth boundaries and rural service centers alongthe
portions of roadways listed below, landscapemanagement zoning appliesand a case- by-case site
plan review is required. The area extends ' A mile on either side from the centerline of the
roadways and includes all areas designated as State and Federal Wild, Scenic or recreational
waterways and within 660 feet from either side of designated rivers and streams as measured
from the ordinary highwater level.
Landscape Management Roads, Rivers and Streams
Inventory. All land within one- quarter of a mile, as measured at right anglesfrom the centerline,
of any of the following designated LandscapeManagement Roadways. All land within the
boundaries of a state scenic waterway or a federal wild and scenic river corridor; and all land
within 660 feet of the ordinary high water mark of portions the following designated rivers and
streams which are not designated as state scenic waterways or federal wild and scenic rivers.
Table S. S. I - Deschutes County Landscape Management Areas
Landscape Management Roads Mites
U.S. Highway97 North County line to Redmond
UGB 7.S
U.S. Highway97 Redmond UGB to Bend U 12
U.S. Highway97 Bend UGB to South County line 3S
U.S. Highway20- 126 North County line to Sisters
UGB
I I
U.S. Highway 126 Sisters UGB to Redmond UGB 21.5
U.S. Highway20 Sisters UGB to Bend UGB 2
Smith Rock Road Highway9 to Smith Rock 3.
Sisemore Road Cloverdale to Bend UGB 19
SkylinerRoad I S.
Century Drive Bend to Mt Bachelor 2
South Century Drive 2
Cascade Lakes Highway 46
Waldo Lake Road 10
Cukus Lake Road 2
Little Cultus Lake Road 6
DESCHUTEs COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011 23
F1i/ T6~ S8r NINAfff $ la OIM$r
SCENIC VIEWS AND SITES INVENTORIES
Landscape Management Roads Miles
Twin Lakes Road 6
Keefer Road ( East Crane Prairie Road) 16.5
east Deschutes Road 14
Deschutes Road 9
Wickiup Road 4
PringleFalls Loop 8
La Pine Recreation Area Access Road 10
Paulina-East Lake Road 22.5
Lava Cast Forest Road 20.5
Highway 20 east to the County Line 25
Pine Mountain Road 7.5
Ford Road 6.5
Three Creeks Lake Road 16
Three Trappers Road 20.5
Dillon Falls Road 60
Matsen Road 2
State Highway31 2.5
Road to Benham Falls 4.5
State Highway242 McKenzie Highway
LandscapeManagement Riven and Strodn" miles
eschutes River
Cattle Deschutes River 43
Paulin Creek 19
II River 8
Sprin River 1.2
umalo Creek 16.3
Whychus Creek ( formerly Squaw Creek)
Crooked River 10
Source: Deschutes County Ordinance 92- 052
Areas of Special Concern Inventory
Inventory: The Resource Element of the Deschutes County Year 2000 Comprehensive Plan
1979) identified sites as Open Spacesand Areas of Special Concern. Table 5. 5.2, lists the
inventory of sites identified as Areas of SpecialConcern located on federal land.
Table 3. 3.2" 2A" Areas of Special Concern
ID N Name Location
9 Bachelor Butte I SS R09E SIC 29- 32
11 Pine Mt. Observatory T20S R I S SEC 33
13
Dry River
19S ISE S 191 30
T 19S R 14E SEC 2, 11, 13, 14 S 24
14 Arnold Ice Caves 19S R131 SIC 22
is Charcoal Cave 19S R13 S 22
16 Skeleton Cave 19S R13E S SCC 4
17 Wind Cave 19S R 13 NW IA SEC 23; SW S C 14
31 Tumalo Falls T 18S R 10 NW SEC 08
33 Lava River Caves I" RK-1 I S S C 26
24 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 218 of 2A~~ j11T~(~O~ Ib~E~ BE~
5.5 OPEN SPACE, SCENIC VIEWS AND SITES INVENTORIES
ID N Name Location
34 PringleFalls ExperimentalForest T2 IS R09E SEC 21- 23, 27 & 28
39 Benham Falls 19S RI I SW ' A SEC 9
45 Paulina Mountain T22S R 12E SEC 1-3 & 10-12
49 Lavacicle Cave 2S R 16E SENE SEC 05
50 Lava Cast Forest T20S R 12E SEC 15, 16, 21, 22, 27- 35
S I Lava Butte Geologic Area 19S R I I E SEC 18
52 Pine Mountain North Slope T20S R 15E EC 28, 29 & 33
54 McKenzie Summit I SS R07E SEC 17
55 Newberry Crater T21 R 12E SEC 34. 36
65 Bend Watershed T 17S R09E SEC 35 & 26
T18S R09E SEC I, 2, 3, 10, 11, & 12
66 Bat Cave T 19S R 13E SE IA SEC 14
68 Boyd Cave T 19S R 13F SENW SEC 8
69 Frederick Butte T22S R 19 SEC 32
Source:. Deschutes County Ordinance 92- 052
Land Needed and Desirable for Open Space and Scenic Resources
Inventory. The following list shows land needed and desirable for open space and scenic
resources:
Table 5. 5.3 Land Needed and Desirable for Open Spaces and Scenic Resources
State Parks Location Size
Smith Rock State Park T 14S, R 13 E, SEC 10, 11, 14 & 15 600 acres
Cline Its State Park T I S, R 12 S 14 9. 04 acres
umalo State Park T ITS, -R 12E, SEC 6 320.14 acres
Pilot Butte State Park T l S, R 12E, SEC 33 & 34 100.74 acres
T20S, R I O, SEC 33 & 34
La Pine State Recreation Area T2 I S, R I OE, SEC 3, 4, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 2, 333.12
T21 S, RI I E, SEC 7
acres
source: Deschutes county Ordinance 92- 052
MSCHUTES COUNTY COMrREHENSNE PLAN - 2011 25
PI &8 MhAl "i~ IftS6WMe0n-Y- Wc1Nie
MEWS AND Srm WvENTows
SCctLow 5. CV cj oaL 5 IwvBV,tor~
G- vLergyResources
Background
This section contains information from the 1979 Deschutes County Comprehensive Plan as
revised. It lists the energy resources in Deschutes County. These inventories have been
acknowledgedby the Department of Land Conservation and Development as complying with
Goal S. No changeshave been proposed for the 2010 ComprehensivePlan update.
Hydroelectric Resources of the Upper Deschutes River Basin
Inventory. Available information is adequate to indicate that the resource is significant. The City
of Bend/ Deschutes County River Study inventoried 16 proposed hydroelectric project sites in
Deschutes County. Twelve were located on the Deschutes River; two on Tumalo Creek; two
on Whychus Creek; and one on the Crooked River in Deschutes County. For a more detailed
discussion of the hydroelectric resources in Deschutes County see the Deschutes CounWCity
of Bend River Study. April 1986 ( River Study). Chapters2, 3, and 4. Also refer to the River
Studystaff report. The River Study and River Study staff report are incorporated herein by
reference.
Table 5. 6.1 Hydroelectric Resources of the Upper Deschutes Basin*
Deschutes River River We Capacity (mesewatts)
Crane Prairie 239 0.6
Wickiup Dam 226.8 7.0
PringleFalls 217 1.6
Lava Diversion 182.4 11.5
Dillon Falls 177.6 7.2
Aspen Diversion 175.2 3.2
Island Diversion 174.6 7.5
Arnold Flume 174.5 4.2
COI Siphon 170.0 63
North Canal Dam 164.8 2.0
Bend Canal Diversion 162.4 3.0
Tumalo Creek River Mile Capacity (metawetts)
Columbia Southern 9.5 9.3
Whychus Creek River Mile Capacity (innawarts)
Whychus Creek 25 0.6
Whychus Creek 30.5 3.5
Crooked River River Mile Capacity (me awaits)
Crooked River Drop 164.8 10.7
Source. Deschutes County Ordinance 92- 052
Note that the conflicting use analysisfrom the River Study and subsequent amendments
prohibit new hydroelectric facilities that are not physically connected to an existing dam,
diversion or conduit. ( Ord. 86-017, 86- 018, 86- 019, 92- 052)
The prohibition refers to the following:
26 DDESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 220 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinan& JRJb3SMMENTAI
SECTIONS SECTION 5.6 ENERGY INVENTORIES
1. Deschutes River, from its headwaters to River Mile 227, above but not including Wickiup
Dam, and from Wickiup Dam to River Mile 171 below Lava Island Falls;
2. Crooked River;
3. Fall River;
4. Little Deschutes River;
5. SpringRiver;
6. Paulina Creek;
7. Whychus Creek ( was Squaw Creek);
8. Tumalo Creek.
Geothermal Resources
Inventory. The County adopted Ordinance 85- 001 which complies with Goal 5 (OAR 660-016).
The ordinance amended the Comprehensive Plan and adopted a Geothermal Resource Element
includinga resource inventory and ESEE analysis.
CDEESCHUTES
COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN
2011
y
27
Pa~ s0~ C11[31i St7rffl ALAN ij
I
plUU3
T0111ES
tS IO
SEGti.Ow 6. 7 CjDAI. S IwVCwtOVu
WLI, OlCYVLPSS, NAtI. tYAI, fFYeAS AwG{ RCCVCAtI.OV1l
Background
This section lists wilderness areas, natural areas and recreation trail resources in Deschutes
County.
Wilderness Areas
Inventory. Wilderness areas are represented by all lands within the existing Mt. Washington and
Three Sisters Wilderness Areas as shown on the Deschutes National forest Land and Resource
Management Plan Map, and all lands included in the Bureau of Land Management's ( BLM) State
of Oregon Wilderness Status Map for Deschutes County and BLM Wilderness Study Areas
WSA) as shown on the Brothers / La Pine Resource ManagementPlan.
Table 5. 7.1 Wilderness Areas
Name Acres
Mt Washington Wilderness Area 13,543
Three Sisters Wilderness Area 92, 706
Badlands 32, 261
Hampton Butte 10, 600
Steelhead Falls 920
Source: Deschutes County Ordinance 92- 052
Ecologically and Scientifically Significant Natural Areas
Inventory. The following sites are the inventories ecologicallysignificant natural areas in
Deschutes County by the Oregon Natural Heritage Program and there is sufficient information
based on site reports from the Heritage Program to complete the Goal 5 review process.
Table S. 7.2 Ecologically and Scientifically Significant Natural Areas
Name Location Quality Quantity
PringleFalls Research Natural Area T2 I S, R9 S , 34 & 35 Excellent 1, 160acres
Horse Ride Research Natural Area T 19S, R 14S, SEC 1 & 22 Excellent 600 acres
West Hampton Butte T22S, R20E SEC 31 & 32 Good 1, 280acres
Uttle Deschutes River / Deschutes River
T20S, R l I E SEC 7 Excellent 400 acres
Confluence
Davis Lake 2S, R , SEC 2 & 26
Good 4 000 acres
T22S, ROE, SEC 31
Source: Deschutes County Ordinance 92- 052
Approved Oregon Recreation Trails
None listed
28
SS M p~
DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page LIZ OI ~ 3SVR f1 13 %~rpMS flalT&0o 4171
RNESS, NATURAL AREAS AND RECREATION INVENTORIES
sect~ow 5. 8 coal s twvewtorU
Nt- WueraLand ttggvegAte Resources
Background
This section contains information from the 1979 Deschutes County Comprehensive Plan as
revised. It lists the surface mining resources in Deschutes County. These inventories have been
acknowledged by the Department of Land Conservation and Developmentas complyingwith
Goal S. No changeshave been proposedfor the 2010 ComprehensivePlan update.
Table S. B. I - Deschutes County Surface Mining Mineral and Aggregate Inventory
Taxlot Name Type Quantity's Quality Access/ Location
151010-00-
246 00205, 207, Tewalt S & G 10, 000 Good Hwy 20
300, 302, 303
248
151012-00-
00100 Cyrus Cinders 30.2 M Excellent Cloverdale Road
151211-M
251 01400, 151214- Cherry S & G 125,000 Good
AO- 00800
252
151200-00-
04700, 04701 Thornburgh Rock 2.5 M Good
271
151036-00- Deschutes
S & G 2 M Mixed Harrington Loop
00800 County Road
151117-00- Deschutes Fryrear
273
00100 County
S & G 75, 000 Excellent Rd/ Redmond-
Sisters
274
151117-00- Deschutes
S & G Excellent Fryrear Road
00700 County
275
11100- 00-
02400
Deschutes
County
S & G 175,000 Good Fryrar Landfill
277
151011-00- Oregon State
S & G 100 000
ODOT
01100 Hwy Specs
151140-AO-
State of O278 00901, 151211-
Oregon
S & G 18, 000
SppeccsDO- 01200
282
171
00 Crown Pack Cinders 100,000 Fair
0 1
283
1710000
0-
Crown Pack Cinders 50 000 Fair
288
171111400- Tumalo
S & G 250 000 Good
00700 Irrigation
292
172-00-
RL Coats S & G 326,000 DOT
900 SP
17112-00-
293 00500, 600, RL Coats S & G 3 M ODOT
700, 800 Specs
DEScHUTEs COUNTY COMPREHENSIVEPLAN - 2011 29
FFbe ~4ZS8M"N ~
I
S5W&~g
l1
Cf
NG INVENTORIES
1 Taxfot Name Type Quantity* Quality Access/ Location
171100-00-
Crown Pacific Cinders 100 000 Excellent
Shevlin
02702 Park/ JohnsonRd
297
171123-00-
Crown Pacific Cinders 60, 000 Johnson
00100 Rdfrumalo
303 171207-00. Cascade
Pumice 750,000 Good
00300 Pumice
303
171207-M Cascade
S & G 00010 Good
00300 Pumice
313
171433-00. Deschutes
S & G 100,000 Good00600 County
313
171433-00. Deschutes
Storage
Dodds
00600, 120 County Road/ Alfalfa
314
171332-00. Deschutes
Dirt 150 000 Good01100 County
315
14
0
Stott Rock 93, 454 tons
O
Highway 20
0210 Sppeccs
316
140900-00- Black Butte
S 3 G 7 M Good00202 Ranch
317
140900-00. Willamette
Cinders 2 M1 Good01300 Ind
141200-00.
Lower
322
01801
Fred Gunner S & G 1.5 M Mixed Bridge/ Terrebonn
e
141200-00-
Lower
322
01801 Gunzner Diatomite 500, 000 Good Bridge/ Terrebonn
e
141200-00.
Lower
324
00702
ODVA S & G 490,000 Good Bridge/ Terrebonn
e
326
141236.00- US Bank
S & G 1.5 M Good
00300, 301 Trust
14132
330
00702, 703 Larry Davis Cinders 50, 000 Good
331
141329-00-
EA Moore Cinders 100 000 Good
00100, 103
332 141329-00.
RL Coats Cinders 2 M Good
Northwest
00102 Way/ Terrebonne
333
141319
00.0
Robinson Cinders 2.7 M Good
9
335
141333-00-
Erwin Cinders 100 000 Excellent
Pershall
00890 Way/ Redmond
336
141333-00. US Bank
Cinders 4 5 M Good
Cinder
00400, 500 Trust Butte/ Redmond
339 41132-00- Deschutes
Dirt 200 000 Fill
Goodard
01500 County Loop/Bend
341
161000-00. Young do
S & G I M Good00106 Morgan
30 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 224 of 238 - Exhibit B to UTQlllafl~ e-ZUTT- OU3 -
SECTIONS SECTION S.S SURFACE MINING INVENTORIES
Taxlot Name Type Quantity* Quality Access/ Location
22090040-
Crown Pacific Cinders 200 000 Good
00203
34S
161000400-
Crown Pacific Cinders 00050 Good
01000
346
161000 M
Crown Pacific Cinders 50 000 Good01000
347
1611014006 Deschutes
Dirt 10 000 Good00300 County
161112400-
Innes Mkt/ Innes351 01401, 1700, Gisler/ Russell Cinders 150,000 Good
Butte
2000
161136-D0.
3S7 00100, 161100- Tumalo
Cinders I M Johnson
00- 10400, Irrigation Road/ Tumalo
10300
161136-DO-
357 00100, 161100- Tumalo
S & G 500 000 Good
00- 10400, Irrigation
10300
161136•DO-
357 00100, 161100- Tumalo
pumice 500 000 Good
00- 10400, Irrigation
10300
358
161231-DO-
Gisler S & G 100,000
ODOT
Hwy 20fTumalo01100 Specs
361
161222-C0. Oregon State
Cinders 700 000 Good02800 Hwy
366
161230400- Oregon State
S & G 40, 000
ODO
00000 H Specs
368
16 2
20
S & G 570 000 Excellent
Twin
0 0 0 Le Brid es/ Tumalo
161231-DO-
Bend
370
00400 Aggregate Storage
Plant Site
379
181100400- Oregon State
S & G 500 000 ODOT
01600 Hwy Specs
181125-CO-
381 12600, 18112& Pieratt Bros Cinders 50, 000 Good
00- 01600
390
181214-00- Deschutes
Dirt 2 M Landfill
005001 100 County
391
181221400- Central OR
Cinders 500 000 Good00200 Pumice
392
181223-M
Rose Rock 10 M Est Mixed00300
392
183
00-
Rose Dirt 7 5 M Good
3
DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011 31
FFgre
Eg 8rMN16A fff WSSf5 &l Ij" Cf
NG INVENTORIES
1 Tax/ ot Name Type Quantity" Quality Access/ Location
393 181225-00- LT
Cinders 12.5 M Good Arnold Mkt Rd/SE
01400 Contractors of Bend
394
181200-00-
Windlinx Cinders 270 000 Coarse Hwy 97/ South of
04400, 04411 Bend
395
181200-00- Oregon State
Cinders 100,000 Good
04300 Hwy
400 5130 Eric Coats S & G 2.5 M
ODT
0 04502 Specs
404
191400-00-
Moon S & G 3 M1 Good
00200
191400-00• Hwy 20/ East of
404
00200
Moon Rock 800,000 - 2 M Good
Bend
405
191400-00- Oregon State
Aggregate 50, 000
ODOT
00600 Hwy Specs
408
191600-00-
RL Coats S & G 3 M Good
01500
413
201500-00- Deschutes
S & G 30 000
Good/Ex Hwy 20/ East of
01400 County cellent Bend
414 201500-00- Deschutes
S& G 30 000
Good/Ex Hwy 20/ East of
01500 County cellent Bend
415
201716-00- Deschutes
S& G 30 000
Good/Ex Hwy 20/ East of
00700 County cellent Bend
416
201716-00- Deschutes
S & G 30, 000
Good/Ex Hwy 20/ East of
00200 County cellent Bend
417
201716-00- Deschutes
S & G 30, 000
Good/Ex Hwy 20/ East of
00900 County cellent Bend
418
201716-00- Deschutes
S & G 30 000
Good/Ex Hwy 20/ East of
01000 County cellent Bend
419
2017164)0- Deschutes
S & G 30 000
Good/Ex Hwy 20/ East of
01300 County cellent Bend
421
212000
RL Coats S & G 500,000 Excellent Hwy 20fTumalo
00900 0
423
211106-CO-
RayRothbard S & G 100,000 Good
00700
426
211100-00- La Pine Redi- S & G I M Good
00702 Mix
427
21110040-
Bill Bagley S & G 40, 000 Good
00701
431
221100-00-
Russell
Cinders/
12 M/ 1.2 M Good FinleyButte
00600 Rock
432
22110040- State of
Cinders 160,000 Good
00500 Oregon
433
2113004X)- La Pine Lump l0 M Excellent
00101 Pumice Pumice
441
10903-00- Willamette
S& G I I M Good
00300 Ind
442
150 09- 00- Willamette
S & G 6 M Good
00400 Ind
32 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 226 of 238 - Exhibit B to CJfQlfla ISLUI l
SECTIONS SECTION 5.8 SURFACEMINING INVENTORIES
Tax/ at Name Type Quantity' Quality Access/ location
150917-00- Willamette
Rock 150 000 Fair00600 Ind
453 161209, 10. 00- Robert
S & G 704 000
ODOT
00600, 301 Fullhart Specs
4S9 141131400- Deschutes
Cinders S0 000 Good05200 County
141300-00-
461 01500, 1501,
1502, 1503,
Nolan S & G 350,000 Good
1505
141200-00-
461 01501, 1502, Franklin
Diatomite 2 M Good
1503, 1505, Nolan
1600
465
141333-00- Oregon State
Cinders 100 000 Good00900 Hwy
466 141333-00-
00600
Fred Elliott Cinders S.5 M Good
467
14133340- Knorr Rock
Cinders S M Good00601 Co
469
14 0 Deschutes
Cinders 2 M Fair0010 0 County
475
I51012-00-
00600
Deschutes
County
Cinders 200,000 Good Cloverdale Road
482
15 13004X)- Deschutes
Dirt 2 M Good NevusLandfill00103 County
161230-00-
488 00100, 600,
Ag= egate
S & G 400,000
Spy2000, 2100
496
191400-00.
00500 Taylor S & G 1.8 M Mixed Hwy 20
498
191400.00. Oregon State
S & G 200 000
ODOT
02200 Hwy Specs
499
191533400. Oregon State
S & G 50 000 ODOT
00200 Hwy Specs
500
191500-00- Oregon State
S & G 130 000
ODOT
00099 Hwy Specs
501
191500-M Oregon State
S & G 50 000 DOT
01600 Hwy Specs
503
19160040- Oregon State
S & G 200 000 O OT
01300 Hwy Specs
505
201600-M Oregon State
S & G 275 000
OD OT
00400 Hwy Specs
506
201600-00- Oregon Sate
S & G 36 000
ODOT
00600, 700, 800 Hwy Specs
508
201700.00- Sate of
S & G 100 000
O OT
01000 Oregon Specs
MscwnEs COUNTY CompptwwsivE PLAN - 2011 33
F1q/e'T6 V8 Nljt AAf
IONS S u C NG INVENTORIES
1 Taxlot Name Type Quantity* Quality Accesskocation
201801-00- Oregon State
S & G 100 000
ODOT
00100 Hwy Specs
522
211900-00- Oregon State
S & G 300 000
ODOT
01000 Hwy Specs
S24 212000-00' Oregon State
S & G 300 000
ODOT
01900 Hwy Sped
528 222110-00- Oregon State
S & G 45 000
ODOT
00600 Hwy Specs
529
2211004110- Oregon State
S & G 31 000
ODOT
00300 Hwy Specs
533
222100-00- Oregon State
S & G I M
ODOT
00800 Hwy Specs
141035-00-
02000, 2100,
541 2200, 2300, Cyrus Aggregate 528,000 Good
Inc Portions of TL
2400, 2500,
1800/ 1900
2600
542
151001-00-
Swarens Aggregate 80, 000 Good02700
543
151013-00-
00100 Cyrus Aggregate 1.1 M Good
600
191400-00•
Robinson S & G 3 8 M Good Hwy 20/ East of
00700 Bend
601
211100-00- La Pine Redi
S & G 479 000 DEQ Paulin Lake Road00700 Mix Specs
quantity in cubic yards unless otherwise noted
Source: 1979 Deschutes County ComprehensivePlan as revised
34 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 228 of 238 - Exhibit B to 6 l" a Ila1 ASY "%~I' L SECTIONS SECTION S.8 SURFACE MINING INVENTORIES
Table 5. 8.2 - Deschutes County Non- SignificantMining Mineral and Aggregate
Inventory
She Taxiot Name Type Quantity* Comments
Whychus
Creek
15- 10-13- 700 Irritation Silt, sand, 200,000 cy
Reservoir Size is
100 District dirt 80 acres.
Watson
Reservoir I.
Whychus
Creek
101 15- 10.13- 700 Irrigation
District
sand & dirt 600,000 cy
Reservoir size is
40 acres.
Watson
Reservoir 11.
Whychus
Creek
14- 11-33- 500 Irrigation Silt, sand, 100,000 cy
Reservoir size is
102 District- dirt 12 acres
McKenzie
Reservoir
Whychus
Creek
Irrigation Sand & 250 000 to
Reservoir
103 14- 11-33- 500 District
dirt 300,000 cy
expansion size is
McKenzie 20 acres
Reservoir
Expansion
Quantity in cubic yards unless otherwise noted
Source: 1979 Deschutes County ComprehensivePlan as revised
DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE RAN- 201 1 3$
F9TeT L3tf - tXI11DILItSiOSVfQlllall~
l "
NG
INVENTORIES
sect'V) VU 59 e, oaL 5 Iwvevutord
cultural awd htistoric Resources
Background
This section contains information from the 1979 Deschutes County Comprehensive Plan, as
revised. It lists the cultural and historic resources in Deschutes County. These inventories have
been acknowledgedby the Department of Land Conservation and Developmentas complying
with Goal S. One minor changehas been proposed to acknowledgean alreadyapproved and
existing changeto Number 30, the Tumalo Creek Diversion Dam and Headgateof the Feed
Canal.
Inventory
I. Alfalfa Grange: Grangebuilding and community center, built in 1930, located on Willard
Road, Alfalfa. 17- 14-26 TL 400.
2. Allen Ranch Cemetery: Oldest cemetery in Deschutes County. 30' by 40' fenced cemetery
plot. Situated 100 yards west of South Century Drive, one- half mile south of Road 42.
Two marble gravestones, two wooden markers. 20- 11-7 TL 1300.
3. Fall River Fish Hatchery "Ice House": The hatchery "Ice House" dates from the beginning
of fishery management in Oregon, circa 1920. It is an 18 foot by 18 foot improvement, the
only original building remaining on the property, and the only significantbuildingor
structure on the site. Located at 150SS S. Century Drive, E'/2; NE'/4; Section 32, Township
20S, Range10 E, Tax Lot 100. ( Ordinance 94- 006 §l, 1994).
4. Long Hollow Ranch - Black Butte: Headquarterscomplexof historic ranch, located on
Holmes Road in Lower Bridgearea, including headquartershouse, ranch commissary,
equipment shed, barn and bunkhouse. 14-11 -1 TL 101.
S. Swamp Ranch - Black Butte: The present day site of the Black Butte Ranch was part of the
vast holdingsof the Black Butte Land and Livestock Company in 1904. No buildings from
the period exist. 14- 9-10A, 10B, 1513, I SC, 16A, 21A, 218, 21C, 22A, 22B.
6. Brothers School: Only one- room schoolhouse currently in use in Deschutes County,
located on Highway 20 in Brothers. 20- 18-00 TL 3200.
7. Bull Creek Dam: The Bull Creek Dam, a component of the Tumalo Irrigation Project was
constructed in 1914 to form a water storage reservoir to increase the amount of irrigated
acreage at Tumalo. It is a gravity type of overflow dam. Two cut off walls are extended
into solid formation, one at the upper toe and the other at the lower toes of the concrete
dam. The dam proper is about 17 feet high from the foundation, although the completed
structure is about 25 feet. Located on Tumalo Reservoir- Market Road. 16- 11-33 TL 2700
SW-'/,; SW-'/4.
8. Bull Creek Dam Bridge (Tumalo Irrigation Ditch Bridge): Built in 1914, the bridge, which
spans the dam, consists of five continuous filled spandrel, barrel-type concrete deck arch
spans, each 25 feet long. The concrete piers are keyed into notches in the arch structure.
36
gU~ yDESCHUTES
COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 230 of 238 - ExhibiF~qp~ i0 F6PC11f1af1CeE~ W- r6pS
Ns St" ON 5.9 CULTURAL AND HISTORIC INVENTORIES
The structure is the oldest bridge in Deschutes County. On Tumalo Reserve- market
Road. 16- 11-33 TL 2700/ SW-'/,; SW-'/,.
9. CampAbbot Site, Officers' Club: Officers' Club for former military camp, currently
identified as Great Hall in Sunriver and used as a meeting hall. 20- 11-58 TL 112.
10. Camp Polk Cemetery. One of the last remaining pioneer cemeteries, located off Camp
Polk Road near Sisters. The site is composed of a tract of land, includinggravestones and
memorials, containing 2. 112 acres in the Southwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of
Section 27, Township 14 South, Range10 E. W.M., TL 2100, described as follows:
Beginningat a point North 20 degrees 06' 20" West 751 feet from the corner common to
Sections 26, 27, 34 and 35 in Township 14 South Range10 E. W.M. and running thence
South 88 degrees 30' West 460 feet; thence North I degree 30' East 460 feet; thence
South I degree 30' 200 feet to the point of beginning.
11. Camp Polk Military Post Site: One of the oldest military sites in Deschutes County.
Located on Camp Polk Cemetery Road. Site includes entire tax lots, listed as follows 14-
10-34 TL 100, 300.
12. Cline Falls Power Plant: Earlyhydropower site on the Deschutes River, located off
Highway 126 on White Rock Road west of Redmond. Site includes dam, penstock and
powerhouse. 15- 12-14 TL 901.
13. Cloverdale School: One- room school buildingin Cloverdale, located near 68515 George
Cyrus Road. First building built in Cloverdale. 15-1 1-7 TL 600.
14. Eastern Star Grange: Grangehall for earliest grange organized in Deschutes County,
located at 62850 Powell Butte Road. 17- 13-19 TL 1900.
15. Enoch Cyrus Homestead Hay Station and Blacksmith Shop: The Enoch Cyrus Homestead
was the original homestead of Oscar Maxwell, built in 1892 and purchased in 190 by
Enoch Cyrus. Important stage/store stop for early travelers. The homestead house,
includinga back porch and cistern, and the Blacksmith Shopare designated. 15- I I -10 TL
700.
16. Fremont Meadow: A small natural meadow on Tumalo Creek in Section 34, Township 17
South, RangeI I East, lyingwithin Shevlin Park. TL 5900. Campsite for 1843 Fremont
expedition. 17- 11-34 TL 5900.
17. Harper School: One- room schoolhouse, located west of South Century Drive, south of
Sunriver, moved halfwaybetween the Allen Ranch and the Vandevert Ranch from the
former townsite of Harper. 20- 11-17 TL 1900.
18. Improved Order of Redmond Cemetery: Historic cemetery used by residents of La
Pine/ Rosland area. Located on Forest Road 4270, east of Highway97. A 40- acre parcel
described as: The Southwest one- quarter of the Southeast one- quarter (SW-'/,; SE-1/4)
Section 7, Township 22 south, Range 11, East of the Willamette Meridian, Deschutes
County, Oregon.
19. Laidlaw Bank and Trust: One of the few remaining commercial buildings from the
community of Laidlaw, located at 64697 Cook Avenue, Tumalo. 16- 12-31 A TL 2900.
McHutts CouNTY Comm% HENsIvE PLAN- 2011 37
Fg TERASBrMNTeApl WOS lN~IE fI
ID HISTORIC INVENTORIES
20. La Pine Commercial Club: Buildingwas built in 1912 as a community center, serving as a
regular meeting place for civic organizations and occasionally served as a church. One of
the oldest and continuously used buildingsin La Pine. Located at 51518 Morrison Street,
La Pine. 22- 10-15AA TL 4600.
21. Lynch and Roberts Store Advertisement: Ad advertising sign painted on a soft volcanic ash
surface. Only area example of early advertising on natural material. Lynch and Roberts
established mercantile in Redmond in 1913. Roberts Field near Redmond was named for J.
R. Roberts. Site includes the bluff. 14- 12-00 TL 1501.
22. Maston Cemetery: One of the oldest cemeteries in County. Oldest grave marker is 1901.
About one- half mile from site of Maston Sawmill and Homestead. Site includes the
gravestones and memorials and the entire tax lot, identified as 22- 09-00 TL 1800.
23. George Millican Ranch and Mill Site: Ranch established in 1886. Well dug at or near that
date. Remains of vast cattle ranching empire. 19- 15-33 TLs 100, 300.
24. George Millican Townsite: Town established 1913. Site includes store and garage
buildings, which retain none of the architectural integrity from era. 19- 15-33 TL 500.
25. Petersen Rock Gardens: The Petersen Rock Gardens consist of stone replicasand
structures erected by Rasmus Petersen. A residence house and museum are part of the
site. The site has been a tourist attraction for over 60 years. Located at 7930 SW 77th,
Redmond. Site includes entire tax lot. 16- 12-11 TL 400.
26. Pickett's Island: After originallysettlingin Crook County, Marsh Awbrey moved to Bend
and then homesteaded on this island in the Deschutes River south of Tumalo. The site was
an early ford for pioneers. Located in Deschutes River near Tumalo State Park. 17- 12-6
NE-'/, TL 100. Portion between Deschutes River and Old Bend Road is designated.
27. Rease ( Paulina Prairie) Cemetery: Historic cemetery on Elizabeth Victoria Castle Rease
and Denison Rease's homestead. Earliest known grave is of their son, GeorgeGuy Rease,
born in 1879, who was also a homesteader on Paulina Prairie. GeorgeGuy Rease died of
smallpoxon the Caldwell Ranch on May 2, 1903. Other known burials are William Henry
Caldwell, 1841- October 15, 1910, died on the Caldwell Ranch of injuries sustained on a
cattle drive; Melvin Raper, 1892-1914, died in a tent of tuberculosis; Addie Laura Caldwell,
1909- November 16, 1918, died of the Spanishinfluenza epidemic; and Emma Nimtz
Deedon, 1886-April 15, 1915, died of complicationsfrom a pregnancy. There are several
unmarked graves. The cemetery is a county-owned one- acre parcel on the north edge of
Paulina Prairie, two miles east of Highway 97. 210-11- 29, SE-1/4; NW-'/+ TL 99.
28. Terrebonne Ladies Pioneer Club: The Club was organizedin 1910. The buildinghas been
a community-meeting place since 1911. Located at 8334 1 Ith Street, Terrebonne. 14- 13-
16DC TL 700.
29. Tetherow House and Crossing: Site is an excellent example of an early Deschutes River
crossing. Major route from Santiam Wagon Road to Prineville. Tetherow House was built
in 1878. The Tetherows operated a toll bridge, store and livery stable for travelers. Oldest
house in County. Site includes house and entire tax lot. 14- 12-36A TL 4500.
30. Tumalo Creek - Diversion Dam The original headgate and diversion dam for the feed
canal was constructed in 1914. The feed canal's purpose was to convey water from
38 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
FPage 232 of 238 - Exhibi R~ ~r
EI
Sr6WNSSECTION S.9 CULTURAL AND HISTORIC INVENTORIES
Tumalo Creek to the reservoir. The originalheadworks were replacedand the original
94.2 ft low overflow weir dam was partially removed in 2009/ 2010 to accommodate a
new fish screen and fish ladder. The remaining original structure is a 90 foot ( crest length)
section of dam of reinforced concrete. Tax Map 17- 11-23, Tax Lot 1600.
31. Tumalo Community Church: The buildingis the oldest church in the County, built in
1905. It stands in the former town of Laidlaw, laid out in 1904. Located at 64671 Bruce
Avenue, Tumalo. 16- 12-31 A TL 3900.
32. Tumalo Project Dam: Concrete core, earth- filled dam 75 feet high. First project by State
of Oregon to use State monies for reclamation project. On Tumalo Creek. 16- 11-29.
33. William P. Vandevert Ranch Homestead House: The Vandevert Ranch House stands on
the east bank of the Little Deschutes River at 17600 Vandevert Road near Sunriver. The
homestead was established in 1892, and has been recently relocated and renovated.
Vandevert family history in the area spans 100 years. 20-11 -00 TL 1900.
34. Kathryn Grace Clark Vandevert Grave: Kathryn Grace Vandevert, daughter of William P.
Vandevert, died of influenza during the epidemic of 1918. Her grave is located across a
pasture due south of the Vandevert House, 50 feet east of the Little Deschutes River. Site
includes gravestone and fenced gravesite measuring is approximately IS feet by 25 feet.
20. 11-00 TL 1900.
35. YoungSchool: Built in 1928, it is an excellent example of a rural " one- room" school
which served homesteaders of the 1920s. Located on Butler Market Road. 17- 13-19 TL
400.
36. Agnes Mae Allen Sottong and Henry J. Sottong House and Barn. House and barn are
constructed with lumber milled on the property in a portable sawmill run by the Pine
Forest Lumber Companyin 1911. Henry was awarded homestead patent 7364 issued at
The Dalles on Dec I, 1904. Henry was president of the Mountain States Fox Farm. A
flume on the Arnold Irrigation District is named the Sottong Flume. The structures are
also associated with William Kuhn, a president of the Arnold Irrigation District; Edward
and Margaret Uffelman, who were part of the group that privatized and developed the
Hoo Doo Ski Resort; and Frank Rust Gilchrist, son of the founder of the town of Gilchrist
and Gilchrist Mill and president of the Gilchrist Timber Company from the time of his
father's death in 1956 to 1988. Frank R. Gilchrist served on the Oregon Board of Forestry
under four governors and was appointed by the governors to serve as a member of the
Oregon Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee. He served on the Oregon State
University's Forest Products Research Lab and was a director and president of the
National Forest Products Association. T 18 R 12 Section 22, 00 Tax lot 01600.
Inventory note: Unless otherwise indicated the inventoried site includes only the designated
structure. No impact areas have been designatedfor any inventoried site or structure.
DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE MAN - 2011 39
FF a
E~ 8rMN,~Akh
I $
l&U 1l ID HISTORIC INVENTORIES
sect%ovv 5: 20 c, oaLExcepUowstatew- evLts
Background
The purpose of this section is to identify the lands where Deschutes County demonstrated an
exception to meeting the requirements of the Statewide PlanningGoals. The intent of goal
exceptions is to allow some flexibility in rural areas under strictly defined circumstances. Goal
exceptions are defined and regulatedby Statewide PlanningGoal 2 and Oregon Administrative
Rule 660- 004 ( excerpt below).
660- 004-0000( 2) An exceptionis a decision to exclude certain land from the requirementsof
one or more applicablestatewide goalsin accordance with the process specifiedin Goal 2,
Part 11, Exceptions. The documentation for an exceptionmust be set forth in a local
government's comprehensiveplan. Such documentation must support a conclusion that the
standards for an exception have been met
Statewide PlanningGoals with Deschutes County Exceptions
Goal 3 Agricultural Lands
Goal 4 Forest Lands
Goal I I Public Facilities and Services
Goal 14 Urbanization
Three types of exceptions are permitted by Oregon Administrative Rule 660- 004
Irrevocablycommitted
Physicallydeveloped
Reasons
The summary below identifies approved goalexceptions and identifies the adoptingordinance
for those interested in further information. The ordinances listed are incorporated by reference
into this Plan.
1979 Exceptions
ComprehensivePlan entire County - PL 20 - 1979
During the preparation of the 1979 ComprehensivePlan it was apparent that many rural lands
had already received substantial developmentand were committed to non- resource uses. Areas
were examined and identified where Goal 3 and 4 exceptions were taken. At this time
exceptions to Goals I I and 14 were not required.
The total area excepted was 41, 556 acres. These lands were residentially developed,
committed to development or needed for rural service centers.
Additional Exceptions
Bend MunicipalAirport - Ordinances 80- 203, 1980 and 80222, 1980
The Bend Municipal Airport received an exception to Goal 3 to allow for the necessary and
expected use of airport property.
La Pine UUC Boundary - Ordinance 98- 001, 1998
Exceptions to Goals 3, 11 and 14 were taken to allow lands to be included in the La Pine UUC
boundary and planned and zoned for commercial use.
40 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 234 of 238 - Exhibit B to c riritUTM jbj
SECTIONS SECTION S. 10 GOAL ExcEPTION STATEMENTS
SpringRiver Rural Service Center- Ordinances 90- 009, 1990, 90-0 10, 1990, 96- 022, 1996, 96- 045„
A reasons exception was taken to Goal 14 to allow the establishment of the SpringRiver Rural
Service Center on residentially designated lands.
BurgessRoad and Highway97 - Ordinance 97- 060, 1997
An exception was taken to Goal 4 to allow for road improvements.
Rural Industrial Zone - Ordinances 2010-030, 2010, 2009-007, 2009
Two separate ordinances for rural industrial uses. The 2009 exception included an irrevocably
committed exception to Goal 3 and a reasons exception to Goal 14 with a Limited Use
Combining Zone for storage, crushing, processing, sale and distribution of minerals. The 2010
exception took a reasons exception to Goal 14 with a Limited Use Combing Zone for storage,
crushing, processing, sale and distribution of minerals.
Prineville Railway - Ordinance 98- 017
An exception was taken to Goal 3 to accommodate the relocation of the Redmond Railway
Depot and the use of the site for an historic structure to be utilized in conjunction with the
Crooked River Dinner Train operations.
Resort Communities - Ordinance 2001-047, 2001
An exception was taken to Goal 4 for Black Butte Ranch and Inn of the 7' Mountain/Widgi
Creek during the designation of those communities as Resort Communities under OAR 660-
22.
BarclayMeadows Business Park - Ordinance 2003-11, 2003
A reasons exception was taken to Goal 3 to include certain property within the Sisters Urban
Growth Boundary.
Sisters School District # 6 - Ordinance 2003-11, 2003
A reasons exception was taken to Goal 3 to include certain property within the Sisters Urban
Growth Boundary.
Sisters Organizationof Activities and Recreation and Sisters School District # 6 - Ordinance 2003-017,
2003
A reasons exception was taken to Goal 4 to include certain property within the Sisters Urban
Growth Boundary.
OregonWater Wonderland Unit 2 Sewer District - Ordinances 2010-015, 2010, 2003-015, 2003
A reasons exception was taken to Goals 4 and I I to allow uses approved by the Board of
County Commissioners in PA- 02-5 and ZC- 02-3 as amended by PA- 09-4.
Gty of Bend Urban Growth BoundaryAmendment GuniperRidge) - Ordinance 97- 060. 1997
An exception was taken to Goal 3 to allow an amendment of the Bend Urban Growth
Boundaryto incorporate 513 acres for industrial uses.
JoyceCoats Revocable Trust JohnsonRoad and Tumalo Reservoir Road Properties - Ordinance 2005-
015, 2005
An irrevocablycommitted exception was taken to Goal 3 to allow a change of comprehensive
plan designation from Surface Mining to Rural Residential ExceptionArea and zoning from
Surface Mining to Multiple Use Agriculture for Surface Mine Sites 306 and 307.
DESCHuTEs COUNTY COMNIEHENsiw PUN - 2011 41
FFg/,'T * 8MNT Wgi
i
OS6M~ t%(~M4! bffnON
STATEMENTS
Watson/ Generation DevelopmentInc - Ordinance 2005-015
An exception was taken to Goal 3 to include a portion of agricultural property.
OregonDepartment of Transportation - Ordinance 2005-019, 2005
An exception was taken to Goal 3 to include a portion of agricultural property.
Conklin/Eady Property - Ordinance 2005-035, 2005
An exception was taken to Goal 3 to include a portion of agricultural property.
City of Sisters Property - Ordinance 2005-037, 2005
An exception was taken to Goal 4 to include a portion of forest property.
McKenzie Meadows Property - Ordinance 2005-039, 2005
An exception was taken to Goal 4 to include a portion of forest property.
Bend Metro Park and Recreation District Properties - Ordinance 2006- 025
A reasons exception was taken to Goal 3 to include a portion of agricultural property.
Harris and Nancy Kimble Propertyand Portion of CLR, Inc PropertyA. K.A. the Klippel Pit Property -
Ordinance 2008-001, 2008
An irrevocablycommitted exception was taken to Goal 3 to allow reclassification and zoning
from Surface Mine to Rural Residential Exception Area and Rural Residential 10 acre for
Surface Mine Site 294.
42 DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 236 of 238 - Exhibit B to fEc, Wclu1yw"
SECTIONS SECTION S. 10 GOAL ExcErnON STATEMENTS
seot% ova 5- 11 c o61L 5 Adoptedorol Ewa vices
As noted in Section 2.4 of this Plan, adoptedand acknowledged Goal 5 inventories, BEES and
programs are retained in this Plan. Generallythe Goal 5 inventories and ESEEs were adopted
into the previous ComprehensivePlan or Resource Element and the Goal 5 programs were
adopted into the Zoning Code. The County does not have a complete listing of Goal 5
inventory and ESEEordinances, but will continue to research those ordinances. The following
list is a start in listing all Goal 5 ordinances that are retained in this Plan.
80- 203 Misc. Goal 5
85- 001 Geothermal Resources
86- 019 Deschutes River Corridor
N 90- 025 Mining
90- 028 Mining
0 90- 029 Mining
92- 018 Historic and Cultural
92- 033 Open Space, LM
92- 040 Fish and Wildlife
92- 041 Fish and Wildlife ( wetlands and riparian)
a 92- 045 Wetlands RE
92- 051 Misc. including Goal 5
92- 052 Misc. Goal 5
92- 067 Mining
93- 003 Misc. Goal 5
94- 003 Misc. Goal 5
94- 006 Historic and Cultural
94- 007 Wetlands and Riparian areas
94- 050 Mining
95- 038 Misc. Goal 5
a 95- 041 Mining
a 96- 076 Mining
99- 019 Mining
99- 028 Mining
2001-027 Mining
a 2001-038 Mining
a 2001-047 Mining
2001-018 Fish and Wildlife
2003-019 Mining
a 2005-025 Historic and Cultural
2005-031 Mining
2007-013 Mining
2008-001 Mining
DESCHUTES COUNTY COM REHENsIvEPLAN - 2011 43
gy_T6 S~S8
6 N
AII% foS67NrVaMhGMLISdff
rTED ORDINANCES
sectiovl. 5.22 l. egisl.ative f- Fistor~
Background
This section contains the legislative history of this Comprehensive Plan.
Table S.1 I. 1 Comprehensive Plan Ordinance History
Ordinance Chapter/Section Amendment
Effective
All, except
Transportation, Tumalo
and Terrebonne
2011-003 xx- xx-201 I/ Community Plans, ComprehensivePlan update
Destination Resorts and
ordinances adopted in
2011
M DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN - 2011
Page 238 of 238 - Exhibit B to Ordinan y !) 1058~TAL
SECTIONS SECTION S. 12LEGISLATIVEHISTORY
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN UPDATE
2011- 2030)
DRAFT FINDINGS
September 30, 2010
Revised May 31, 2011
PAGE 1 OF 166 - EXHIBIT " C" TO ORDINANCE 2011- 003
TABLE OF CONTENTS
BACKGROUND 1
FINDINGS 3
TABLES: Statewide Goals & Comp Plan goals/ policies existing & updated
Goal 1 - Table 1 - Citizen Involvement
Goal 2 - Table 2 - Land Use Planning
Goal 3 - Table 3 - Agricultural Lands
Goal 4 - Table 4 - Forest Lands
Goal 5 - Table 5 - Goal 5 Overview
Goal 5 - Table 6 - Water Resources
Goal 5 - Table 7 - Wildlife
Goal 5 - Table 8 - Open Spaces, Scenic Views and Sites
Goal 5 - Table 9 - Surface Mining
Goal 5 - Table 10 - Cultural and Historic Resources
Goal 6 - Table 11 - Water Resources
Goal 6 - Table 12 - Environmental Quality
Goal 7 - Table 13 - Natural Hazards
Goal 8 - Table 14 - Rural Recreation
Goal 9 - Table 15 - Economic Development
Goal 10 -Table 16 - Housing
Goal 11- Table 17 - Public Facilities and Services
Goal 13 -Table 18 - Energy Conservation
Goal 14- Table 19 - Rural Development
Goal 14 -Table 20 - Urbanization
Goal 14 - Table 21 - Sunriver Urban Unincorporated Community
Goal 14 -Table 22 - Resort Communities
Goal 14 - Table 23 - Rural Service Centers
Table 24 - Area Specific Plans and Policies
PAGE 2 OF 166 - EXHIBIT " C" TO ORDINANCE 2011- 003
BACKGROUND
Ordinance 2011- 003 is an extensive update of the Deschutes County Comprehensive
Plan. The purpose of the Comprehensive Plan ( Plan) is to provide a blueprint for land
conservation and development. This is accomplished through goals and policies which
provide a legal framework for more specific land use actions and regulations such as
zoning. The goals and policies are based on community input and existing conditions
and trends. In Oregon, comprehensive plans must comply with the statewide planning
system, which was adopted in 1973 to ensure consistent land use policies across the
state.
This Comprehensive Plan Amendment covers the unincorporated areas of the County
from 2011- 2030. The cities of Bend, La Pine, Redmond and Sisters each maintain their
own comprehensive plans within their respective Urban Growth Boundaries ( UGBs). The
cities and County use intergovernmental agreements to coordinate land use outside of
cities but within UGBs. To remain useful over the approximately 20- year timeframe, the
Plan must provide clear policy direction yet remain flexible. As conditions change, future
legislative amendments will ensure the Plan remains relevant and timely.
Planning History in Deschutes County: Deschutes County's first comprehensive plan,
Comprehensive Plan to 1990, was adopted in 1970. To comply with newly adopted
statewide planning regulations a new plan was adopted in 1979, Deschutes County Year
2000 Comprehensive Plan ( 1979 Plan). In 1981, the 1979 Plan was acknowledged by
the Land Conservation and Development Commission ( LCDC) as being in compliance
with the Statewide Planning Goals. Along with the 1979 Plan, the County adopted a
background document and map. The Deschutes County Comprehensive Plan Resource
Element ( Resource Element) contained valuable resource and demographic information.
The map depicted the long-term general land use categories for all lands in the County.
Over time, the County amended the 1979 Plan to comply with changes initiated by the
State, the Board of County Commissioners or property owners. Periodic Review, a term
used in Oregon law ( ORS 197. 628-636) to describe the periodic evaluation and revision
of a local comprehensive plan, was initiated in 1988 and was completed on January 23,
2003. Periodic Review included major additions and amendments to the 1979 Plan to
keep the plan and its policies current with evolving state planning regulations and local
conditions. In 2007 the Oregon Legislature enacted a bill that eliminated the requirement
that counties participate in Periodic Review.
Unfortunately, the additions, amendments and eventual codification of the Plan led to a
document that was no longer cohesive or user friendly. In order to provide consistent
and clear land use direction, in 2008 the County initiated a major update and rewrite of
the 1979 Plan. This Plan, Deschutes County Comprehensive Plan - 2011, is a broad
revision of the 1979 Plan.
Plan Update Process: This Plan update was not done through the Periodic Review, but
rather a County initiated process. Over two years of extensive public input and Planning
Commission review was completed before this Plan amendment went to a formal public
hearing. Initial outreach included listening sessions around the county, letters to
stakeholders, press releases, flyers inserted in 42, 000 tax bills, Planning Commission
meetings, a booth at the Deschutes County spring and fall home and garden shows and
informal surveys. A draft Plan was prepared in fall, 2009 and public outreach was again
initiated. Open houses and additional Planning Commission meetings resulted in a
revised draft in fall, 2010. Only then were public hearings initiated.
PAGE 3 OF 166 - EXHIBIT " C" TO ORDINANCE 2011- 003
HEARINGS AND ADOPTION
The Deschutes County Planning Commission ( Commission) held a public hearing on
November 18, 2010 on Ordinance 2011-003, to consider legislative plan amendments to
Deschutes County Code ( DCC) Title 23, Deschutes County Comprehensive Plan.' The
hearing was continued to December 2, December 9 and December 16. The Commission
closed the hearing on December 16 and began deliberations. Deliberations continued on
January 6, 2011 and were completed on January 13, 2011. The Commission voted to
forward to the Board of County Commissioners ( Board) a recommendation to adopt the
draft Comprehensive Plan as modified.
The Board held public hearings on March 29, March 31 and April 5, 2011. The hearings
were continued until May 11 and May 31, at which time the hearing was closed.
Deliberations and first reading took place July 6, second reading July 25. The effective
date was October 24, 2011.
REVIEW CRITERIA
Deschutes County Comprehensive Plan - 2011 is a substantially revised and
reformatted Plan for the unincorporated areas of the county. It contains new goals and
policies as well as detailed background information for each section. While Deschutes
County lacks specific criteria in DCC Titles 18, 22, or 23 for reviewing a legislative plan
amendment, all post- acknowledgementplan amendments are required to demonstrate
compliance with statewide planning goals, relevant ORS, Oregon Administrative Rules,
and case law.
The proposed Comprehensive Plan amendments comply as described below, and
represent a revitalized path forward for implementing Oregon's Statewide Planning
Program in Deschutes County over the next twenty years. Following the findings are
tables comparing the proposed draft Comprehensive Plan goals and policies with the
goals and policies in the existing acknowledged Comprehensive Plan. These are
provided to assist the community in evaluating the draft Comprehensive Plan.
FINDINGS
Statewide Planning Goals: This Comprehensive Plan amendment will be evaluated by
demonstrating, through an adequate factual base and supportive evidence, consistency
with Statewide Planning Goals 1 through 14 ( Goals 15- 19 do not apply to Central
Oregon). For each Statewide Goal the County must comply not just with the language in
the Goal, but also any associated Administrative Rule, State Statute and case law. This
Plan must be considered as a whole to ensure internal consistency and compliance with
Statewide Goals.
Besides complying with the Statewide Planning program, this Plan responds to
community values and concerns that were raised in the extensive public input process.
Deschutes County recognizes the importance of working with the community on land
use issues.
The following findings list the first 14 Statewide Planning Goals and related Oregon
Administrative Rules ( OAR). Where one section of Oregon Revised Statute ( ORS) is
especially relevant that is also listed.
An Oregon Land Conservation and Development Department, 45- day Notice was sent on October 4, 2010.
A public notice was published in the Bulletin on November 7, 2010.
PAGE 4 OF 166 - EXHIBIT " C" TO ORDINANCE 2011- 003
Under each Statewide Goal is a list of where in Comprehensive Plan - 2011 and the
current 1979 Plan ( as revised) to find sections primarily corresponding to that Statewide
Goal. Also shown is the extent of the amendments for each section listed. Finally, there
are findings and sample policy references from Plan 2011.
The findings are supplemented by 24 tables which, for easy comparison, highlight goals
and policies in the 1979 Comprehensive Plan revised and goals and policies in the
updated Comprehensive Plan.
Many of the policies in the Plan refer to reviewing and/or amending Deschutes County
Code. Those policies will be implemented through a separate public process, and the
process and results must be in compliance with State land use law.'
Statewide Planning Goal 1, Citizen Involvement
Comprehensive Plan - 2011: Chapter 1, Section 1.2
1979 Plan revised. Deschutes County Code ( DCC) 23. 124
Amendments: Citizen involvement ( now Section 1.2) was completely rewritten.
Findings: The section listed above and this Plan as a whole, complies with Goal 1,
Citizen Involvement, as described below.
The adoption process for these amendments included public hearings before the
Planning Commission ( County's citizen review board for land use matters) and before
the Board of County Commissioners.
The updated goal and policies were based on an extensive two- year public/ Planning
Commission process that generated considerable public input which was incorporated
throughout this Plan.
Policies 1. 2.1 to 1. 2.5 continue implementing the required citizen involvement program
that provides opportunities for citizens to be involved in all phases of the planning
process.
The new policies recognize the Planning Commission as the required Committee for
Community Involvement.
This section complies with the following six components of Statewide Goal 1:
Citizen Involvement - To provide for widespread citizen involvement ( including a
citizen involvement program and committee) (Policies 1. 2.1, 1. 2.2);
Communication - To assure effective two-way communication with citizens ( see
Policy 1. 2.3);
Citizen Influence - To provide the opportunity for citizens to be involved in all
phases of the planning process ( Policies 1. 2.3, 1. 2.5);
Technical Information - To assure that technical information is available in an
understandable form ( Policy 1. 2.3 ( c));
Feedback Mechanisms - To assure that citizens will receive a response from policy
makers ( Policy 1. 2.4 and Goal 1);
Financial Support - To insure adequate funding for the citizen involvement program
Policy 1. 2.2( a)).
Statewide Planning Goal 2, Land Use Planning - OAR 660- 004
Comprehensive Plan - 2011: Chapter 1, Section 1.3 and Chapter 5, Section 5. 10
1979 Plan revised. No specific chapter
Amendments: Land use ( now Section 1.3) was completely rewritten; Goal exceptions
now Section 5. 10) are substantially retained, but edited.
PAGE 5 OF 166 - EXHIBIT " C" TO ORDINANCE 2011- 003
Findings: The sections listed above, and this Plan update as a whole, comply with
Statewide Planning Goal 2 as described below.
ORS 197. 610 allows local governments to initiate post- acknowledgementplan
amendments.
45- day notice was provided to the Land Conservation and Development Department
on October 4, 2010.
Overall the draft Plan contains detailed, factual background information to provide
context for the goals and policies.
Section 1.3 Goal 1 and associated policies recognize the importance of objective and
factual land use decisions.
Policies 1. 3.1 and 1. 3.2 recognize that when making land use regulations, private
property rights, economic impacts, sustainability and cumulative impacts all need to be
considered.
Policy 1. 3.5 requires review of the Plan every five years to ensure it stays current.
Section 1.3 Goal 2 and its associated policies support regional coordination.
There are no amendments to Comprehensive Plan map designations incorporated
into this Plan update, although definitions of existing designations are provided.
Section 5. 10 lists adopted and acknowledged Goal exceptions.
Goal 3, Agricultural Lands - OAR 660- 033 and ORS 215
Comprehensive Plan - 2011: Chapter 2, Section 2. 2
1979 Plan revised. DCC 23. 88
Amendments: Agriculture ( now Section 2.2) was completely rewritten, but existing
designations and regulations were retained.
Findings: The section listed above, and this Plan update as a whole, complies with
Statewide Planning Goal 3 as described below.
Deschutes County inventoried agricultural lands as required by Goal 3 in 1979 and
refined the agricultural land designations as a result of a farm study in 1992. Policies
2. 2.1- 2.2. 4 retain the existing Exclusive Farm Use Zoning and subzones. No map
changes are proposed as part of this Plan update.
Policies 2. 2.5- 2.2. 6 ensure our farm policies and codes remain compliant with State
regulations.
Policies 2. 2.7- 2.2. 11 support the business of agriculture.
Policies 2. 2.13- 2. 2.14 address ensuring agricultural lands are accurately designated
in compliance with State rules, while responding to local concerns that there are
Deschutes County farmlands that are incorrectly designated.
Policy 2. 2.17 encourages coordination between farmers and fish/ wildlife managers.
Goal 4, Forest Lands - OAR 660- 006 and ORS 215
Comprehensive Plan - 2011: Chapter 2, Section 2. 3
1979 Plan revised. DCC 23. 92
Amendments: Forest ( now Section 2.3) was completely rewritten, but existing
designations and regulations were retained.
Findings: The section listed above, and this Plan update as a whole, comply with
Statewide Planning Goal 4 as described below.
Deschutes County inventoried forest lands as required by Goal 4 in 1979 and refined
the forest land designations to conform to OAR 660- 006. Policies 2. 3.1- 2.3. 3 of this
PAGE 6 OF 166 - EXHIBIT " C" TO ORDINANCE 2011- 003
updated Plan retain the existing Forest 1 and Forest 2 Zoning. No map changes are
proposed as part of this Plan update.
Policy 2. 3.5 ensures forest codes are compliant with State regulations.
Policy 2. 3.6 recognizes the need for coordination with federal agencies.
Policy 2. 3.9 reflects the economic opportunities of forests.
Section 2.3 Goal 2 recognizes the importance of protecting forest health and fish and
wildlife habitat.
Goal 5, Open Spaces, Scenic and Historic Areas and Natural Resources - OAR
660- 016 and 660- 023
Comprehensive Plan - 2011: Chapter 2, Sections 2. 4-2. 7 and 2. 10-2. 11 and Chapter 5,
Sections 5. 3-5. 9, 5. 11
1979 Plan revised. DCC 23. 96, 23. 100, 23. 104, 23. 108, 23. 112, 23. 116,
Amendments: All Goal 5 sections in Chapter 2 were completely rewritten; Chapter 5
Goal 5 inventories ( as well as ESEEs and programs) were retained.
Findings: The sections listed above, and this Plan update as a whole, comply with
Statewide Planning Goal 5 as described below.
Each of the Chapter 2 Sections listed above address different Goal 5 resources. All
existing Goal 5 adopted and acknowledged inventories can be found in Chapter 5. All
adopted, acknowledged Goal 5 inventories, ESEEs and programs are retained, but for
one amendment to an historical resource, to recognize existing and approved changes
to the site.
Section 2. 4 Policies 2. 4.1- 2.4. 5 reflect the importance of protecting and updating Goal
5 inventories and programs.
Riparian Corridors, Wetlands, Federal Wild and Scenic Rivers, State Scenic Waterways,
Groundwater Resources
Water resources are addressed in Sections 2. 5 ( policies) and 5.3 ( inventories).
No Goal 5 inventory or program changes are incorporated in this update.
Section 2. 5 Goals 3 and 4 and associated policies support protection of river
ecosystems, including wetlands and riparian corridors.
Section 2. 5 Goals 1, 2, 5, support protection of groundwater resources and regional
groundwater coordination.
Policies 2. 5.4 - 2. 5.6 emphasize water conservation.
Policies 2. 5.4 and 2. 5.9 underscore public outreach and education on watershed
related issues.
Policy 2. 5.8 supports research to better understand watershed issues.
Policies 2. 5.11- 2.5. 14 highlight the importance of fish populations and habitats.
Wildlife Habitat
Wildlife habitat is addressed in Sections 2. 6 ( policies) and 5. 4 ( inventories).
No Goal 5 inventory or program changes are incorporated in this update.
Policy 2. 6.2 promotes stewardship of wildlife habitat.
Policy 2. 6.3 is directed at updating wildlife habitat inventories and protections through
future public processes.
Section 2.6, Goal 2 recognizes the economic value of wildlife tourism.
Section 2.6, Goal 3 addresses federal and state protected species.
Mineral and Aggregate Resources
Mineral and aggregate resources are addressed in Sections 2. 10 ( policies) and 5. 8
inventories).
PAGE 7 OF 166 - EXHIBIT " C" TO ORDINANCE 2011- 003
No Goal 5 inventory or program changes are incorporated in this update.
Section 2. 10 Goal 1 and associated policies continue protection of mineral and
aggregate resources while responding to public concerns through a future public
update process.
Energy Resources
Energy resources are addressed in Sections 2. 8 ( policies) and 5. 6 ( inventories).
No Goal 5 inventory or program changes are incorporated in this update.
Section 2. 8 Goal 1 and Policies 2. 8.1- 2.8. 5 support energy conservation
Section 2.8 Goals 2 and 3 and Policies 2. 8.6- 2.8. 10 promote local alternative energy
for both personal and commercial use.
Cultural Areas
See Historic Resources below.
Oregon Recreation Trails, Natural Areas, Wilderness
Oregon Recreation Trails, Natural Areas and Wilderness are addressed in Section
5. 7(inventories).
No Goal 5 inventory or program changes are incorporated in this update.
These areas are designated and managed by other government agencies and
included in the County inventories.
Historic Resources, Open Spaces, Scenic Views and Sites
Open spaces, scenic views and sites are addressed in Sections 2. 7 ( policies) and 5.5
inventories).
No Goal 5 open space, scenic views or sites inventory or program changes are
incorporated in this update.
Policy 2. 7.2 recognizes the importance of working with stakeholders to establish
connected open spaces.
Policy 2. 7.3 supports protection for visually significant areas.
Historic and cultural resources are addressed in Sections 2. 11 (policies) and 5. 9
inventories).
One minor amendment to the Goal 5 inventory is incorporated in this update.
Historic site # 30, the Tumalo Creek Diversion Dam, is being amended to reflect
current conditions. Because these changes have already been approved and
implemented, the proposed amendments simply reflect on the ground changes.
Goal 6, Air, Water and Land Resources Quality
Comprehensive Plan - 2011: Chapter 2, Section 2.5 and 2.9
1979 Plan revised. DCC 23. 96, 23. 112, 23. 116
Amendments: Environmental quality (now Sections 2.5 and 2.9) were completely
rewritten
Findings: The sections listed above, and this Plan update as a whole, comply with
Statewide Planning Goal 6 as described below.
Section 2.5 and Section 2. 9 support maintaining and improving air, water and land
quality, which goes beyond the requirements of Goal 6 to comply with State and
Federal regulations.
There are no map or zoning changes proposed in this update that would permit uses
with the potential to cause waste and process discharges that would trigger Goal 6.
Section 2.5 Goal 5 and Policies 2. 5.16- 2.5. 20 support protecting and improving water
quality.
Section 2. 5 Policies 2. 5.21, 2. 5.22, 2. 5.23, 2. 5.26, 2. 5.27, 2. 5.28 address impacts to
water quality from development.
PAGE 8 OF 166 - EXHIBIT " C" TO ORDINANCE 2011- 003
Section 2. 9 Goal 1 supports maintaining and improving air, water and land quality.
Section 2.9 Goals 2 and 3 support sustainable building practices and recycling.
Goal 7, Areas subject to Natural Disasters and Hazards
Comprehensive Plan - 2011: Chapter 3, Section 3.5
1979 Plan revised. DCC 23. 80
Amendments: Natural hazards ( now Section 3.5) was completely rewritten
Findings: The section listed above, and this Plan update as a whole, comply with
Statewide Planning Goal 7 as described below.
Deschutes County has been proactive on addressing natural hazards, creating and
updating a Natural Hazards Mitigation Plan that identifies local potential hazards. That
Plan is incorporated into this Plan ( Policy 3. 5.1).
Policy 3. 5.3 refers to coordinating with emergency service providers when approving
development.
Policies 3. 5.7- 3.5. 9 highlight the importance of managing wildfire hazards.
Policy 3. 5.11 underscores the importance of reviewing County Code and revising as
needed to address natural hazards.
Goal 8. Recreation Needs - OAR 660- 034 and ORS 197. 435-197- 467
Comprehensive Plan - 2011: Chapter 3, Section 3. 8
1979 Plan revised: DCC 23. 72, 23. 84, 23. 116
Amendments: Recreation ( now Section 3.8) was completely rewritten; destination resort
section 23. 84 is retained and not incorporated in this update, but will be inserted intact
as Section 3.9
Findings: The sections listed above, and this Plan update as a whole, comply with
Statewide Planning Goal 8 as described below.
Policy 3. 8.1 addresses the need for cooperation in recreation planning
Policy 3. 8.7 discusses working with Unincorporated Communities that express interest
in parks.
Policy 3. 8.8 refers to a coordinating trail designs with Transportation System Plans
The destination resort chapter was recently revised and is under judicial review. That
chapter is not being amended as part of this update.
Goal 9. Economy of the State - OAR 660- 009
Comprehensive Plan - 2011: Chapter 3, Section 3.4
1979 Plan revised: DCC 23. 40, 23. 52
Amendments: Economy (now Section 3.4) was completely rewritten; Rural Commercial
and Rural Industrial policies were moved here largely intact from the unincorporated
communities chapter (was DCC 23.40)
Findings: The section listed above, and this Plan update as a whole, comply with
Statewide Planning Goal 9 as described below.
Goal 9 applies only within urban growth boundaries.
Policies 3. 4.1- 3.4. 7 provide guidelines on actions the County can take, within
Statewide planning regulations.
Policies 3. 4.9- 3.4. 21 and 3. 4.23- 3.4. 35 are retained from the 1979 Plan. These policies
govern existing Rural Commercial and Rural Industrial designated properties. These
properties were previously evaluated under OAR 660- 023 and determined to have
PAGE 9 OF 166 - EXHIBIT " C" TO ORDINANCE 2011- 003
pre- existingcommercial or industrial uses that due not fit into any of the
unincorporated community categories.
Policies 3. 4.8 and 3. 4.22 support updating rural commercial and industrial lands as
needed.
Goal 10, Housing - OAR 660- 007 and 660- 008
Comprehensive Plan - 2011: Chapter 3, Section 3.3
1979 Plan revised. DCC 23. 56
Amendments: Housing (now Section 3.3) was completely rewritten
Findings: The section listed above, and this Plan update as a whole, comply with
Statewide Planning Goal 10 as described below.
Goal 10 is primarily intended for cities, not counties.
Policies in Section 3. 3 address housing safety, housing diversity, rural character and
regional cooperation.
Policy 3. 3.3 addresses issues raised by the, public.
Policy 3. 3.5 discusses working with the State on potential rural housing alternatives.
Policies 3. 3.6 and 3. 3.7 refer to coordinating with cities on affordable housing.
Goal 11, Public Facilities and Services - OAR 660- 011
Comprehensive Plan - 2011: Chapter 3, Section 3.6
1979 Plan revised. DCC 23. 68
Amendments: Public facilities and services ( now Section 3.6) was completely rewritten
Findings: The sections listed above, and this Plan update as a whole, comply with
Statewide Planning Goal 11 as described below.
Goal 1 supports orderly, efficient and cost- effective siting of rural public facilities and
services.
Policies 3. 6.8 and 3. 6.9 support coordination with service providers when approving
new development.
Goal 12, Transportation - OAR 660- 012
Comprehensive Plan - 2011: Not part of this update
1979 Plan revised. DCC 23. 60, 23. 64
Amendments: Transportation Chapters DCC 23. 60 and 23. 64 are retained and not
incorporated in this update, but will be inserted intact as Section 3. 7. As of 2011 these
chapters are being updated separately
Findings: Amending the acknowledged Transportation System Plan is not part of this
Plan update.
Goal 13, Energy
Comprehensive Plan - 2011: Chapter 2, Section 2.8
1979 Plan revised: DCC 23. 76, 23. 116
Amendments: Energy (now Section 2.8) was completely rewritten
Findings: The sections listed above, and this Plan update as a whole, comply with
Statewide Planning Goal 13 as described below.
Section 2. 8 considers how energy conservation and alternative energy systems can
address energy needs.
Policies 2. 8.1- 2.8. 5 focus on energy conservation efforts.
PAGE 10 OF 166 - EXHIBIT " C" TO ORDINANCE 2011- 003
Goal 14, Urbanization - OAR 660- 021, 660- 022, 660- 024
Comprehensive Plan - 2011: Chapter 4, Sections 4. 2-4. 4 and 4. 57-4. 8
1979 Plan revised. DCC 23. 24, 23. 40, 23. 48
Amendments: Urbanization ( now Section 4.2) was completely rewritten; Rural
Development was incorporated throughout other sections; Urban Unincorporated
Communities, Resort Communities and Rural Service Centers ( now Sections 4. 4, 4. 7,
4.8) were retained with minor amendments; Rural Communities ( now Sections 4.5, 4.6)
were adopted separately as Ordinances 2010- 012 ( Terrebonne) and Ordinance 2010-
027 ( Tumalo) and are not part of this update.
Findings: The sections listed above, and this Plan update as a whole, comply with
Statewide Planning Goal 14 as described below.
Policies in Section 4. 2 discuss the importance of coordination between the cities and
the County on Urban Growth Boundaries and Urban Reserve Areas.
Sections 4.4, 4. 7 and 4. 8 regarding unincorporated communities have been mostly
retained from the adopted, acknowledged Plan, with some minor amendments to
address updated conditions or community concerns.
Sections 4. 5 and 4.6 are policies for the Rural Communities of Terrebonne and
Tumalo. These sections were adopted separately and are not part of this Plan update.
PAGE 11 OF 166 - EXHIBIT " C" TO ORDINANCE 2011- 003
This page is intentionally left blank
PAGE 12 OF 166 - EXHIBIT " C" TO ORDINANCE 2011- 003
o
s
C -
a
m a)
0 0
tC tl) ' p C OU
N m
V C
L m m N O
a m C L a)
o R- 7 °
L
c C_ C
21,
cu E 0 C:Q O
C + c
O > m
v7 co QE
m
U) 0
O O
O tU' a O O U)
o C a)U m ~- 0~ C: cm C:
C t+ U O U cn E Q m m
i
d m >
C O cn
Q 7 > C i U
O a)N O • C
O
E N
U U V
co
C
CL > E a)
C O d >
O
L N C N O 0 O
V
L C
O E Q O E Q~ Oui > cn c
a
a v -p ( j a cn E
E° Eo
Q o
CD - O E N U UL c
N
r + :
3 +
J
C_ m U OU
O acid E
mo o ° mm ° U~
0 _ 0
vi
Q
L ~ i
c N E E - Q
a ° U)
c
N o a) o Qa) °
O Qdc U 3Q co oa) Ocu
o
M U) .
a 4) +. r O_ 0- 0 O Q
L a) - O O_ C -
0
a u`_ni - 0~ c m _ aH
Ut; w E~
C1 N ( D U) EU c
0-~ o"c ° ° m -
E u) cu
H L m
co
E V O O i> o - 0 O o E - C: Q)
d 0 t)
m m
V
cn
U 3 ° E m E c
C
u)
L.
m c _ C ca) a) ° m M o~ ~- 0
O
C m _ C 04 c a) E- E c m c? " a am
C N N N C a) . C a) - 0
Q a) a) N
a -0
E•
cU) u) U
aE~ ~ c
cc 3 c- E T-E mo m
CR= vE•a-' cU) - > o
m °
QO uo EaE ~ m N~
pf ea c u U u m o
c Q m O° o o U o ° o o
d0
0
@NOoo s O - C>
ao Qc 2U U. U o
aoaU
Nsz U m._ oQa a P - Co C3 - a a; a w- 0 c6
C3 m ° o aci Cl)
E N u c 70 o N m ( n $
d d C C a) . 2 c
r C a) U U) CL m
d
p w E O } m O O O O c0 O 0 0
c CL O
C C
c~ a) -
C
m
m U - 0 L to
C N N Q Q L
vi O O U a)
U O UC m to co C
fl
co 0ca > CM
N
to
a ' C cm 0O LC U) m a) c a C CL
r+ dZ: C - U a) m o
m a)~:
C
O O) O C
v >
0~
E a) $ = E 7 o m O o c
C
c m O_
R • c ? O N
Co
Q U
Co a) N Y L
to
O S O
U C U a) > O
C j > U L
Q OL
L a)c ~. S c tea)
U
0E
c c m - umi ~Na~ aic`- o a) O- 0 Omo O c c
0 4- a)
V E a) - 0
L
co a cu 0 0 a) c`a c
O
c N
F- `~°~ a) nc Cc oEFu U) c o ooc mrA. U c O CL • C m C
C
L
L - p
CCL ( D 0r
cd mcu
to
OQ= o 0 o~ C: acn a) Q c m~
N E > M C: o 00 ~
sU) mo>,
v co C •DZcU a) a)O -- m -
O N Q- O C a) U > C C a) C o_ 2 N
C
C7 M C ,
O O O N - L= O
C~
t7 O C m X C _ C C
H N m' L- L - p a) m
4- m N A ( COU
N V) a) C O
C V a) j C O cn O E ip in C_ w, a) U C.
C sq ° E U) c a) r cL o$s• >,o - t o
E a) > L-
U) c
N O O . S O a) W a) N O m~ C ? L v_ 0
U)i0 = 3
d 4) Q U to Q C
O m CL Q
C m '- S O O U O Co - 0 > (
D a)
N O L L 0 0 O
U
O+
m m
N N Q " p m L 5
M U to
0
O
a) - . 0 U M C_ a) C a)
3 CN oN m ~ o~ Q LCC OL ~, X
L M
Ocn
d Q a) o m cn CS D m v0)
m c a)
a a
L
a) 0.0 om m cE v N0E o-0 a0 m
L
0mm~ ' Fu ~ E• m a) E U a tom a S d mD 0)
a C7N m 0~ t7 U CL FO-
o r N t~ Lt)C7
co a)
0)
co O C C/)
O U O)
C
O C
N Q)
0
o N Q)
C
X O Q)
E
ca O Q O
E
U
p O)
p
M Q
m
Q)
m
C U
ca
o>
0
C
U) o a co
0O O
N
0 CD
0) C
o0
C r
U
C c O
p 0
N
O i Uj O j
U 0-
V
CL C
ca
Q)
C
co m
Q)
N
0
C
O
Q) -
caa
U
vi
L
O
C r O' C
m
0 _ rZ C
ca
U j=
E C O
a~ r O C
U
O
0
OU -
C:
m Q)
D m c' a O Q C cn o
C
3
O Q) cum o ca C Q
C
N
cU m
E o
c ooo
0)" c U) O)
Q
d
t N
a
E s
U m p
O m Q) m O
C
C
p O U C C
Q)
N
U) OQ)
L
L N
m O
E
L
O
0 c O) Q
CL
U
C C Q C
Q)
C
C
Q
v
U
U)
C
m
Q) X
D
m
C
OU
Ca •
L
O
n
O ( a mO
C
C
E
m
C
a)
U
H O
Q)
Q
o
V . Q M
U) 0- 0) O
m
V
N
L
O Q) C U U
O
co Q C C
Q) Q)
U
Q)
N
EC
O
L tr
C- Z O)
C m c
Q)
Q
c
C U
m
E- C E
Q)
m C
Q)
O- 0 c0
U N
m
L m N - O
Q C O
m
LC)
i
O
L
a+
C
U)
Q) E Co
m U
U)
Q) m
in N
C
N
o
a)
L- m U a) co
r O C T
a~
Y
O U O N X
C-) 10
a) U U U
O
C
CU C 2 Q C (
D D
LL Q) - 0 M
o o o
u,
c
N ad 0 ai a Of a w
V m o
E m
t a N
U
a)
U to O j C-0 E
m
U)
L
Q)
0
C
O N
U
a
Q
C
N U
a)
D O C
C C
U
0
U
O
0- 0 0)
Q) -
C
2 coc
7 O m~
N O U
L
O -
p p
C
R U C : G
C a) N
a-
O O
L- C
O O O
U U- O
v
a m N m C
mH N a O N
m
a) c6 N ( a L
C 0
O U
O
W 4) co 0- 0
Co
N
N
U
C a) = 3
N ' U
a-
Q)
U)
Q) ' c E Q)
NDp N A C
r 0
y
0 0)a)
L
0
p
w
L
Q)CD c:
a E
a)
O t O W C U a
C: Q) =
L)V
O 7
O
D
0 L
C
U
a
0 O1 n
U
a) C
U m m = O
0
N
aE
m
0
Q)
t
U
a
Uc O CV v
O ON LO N Q
U U
OC
co
fa
0 p-
ca
m
U
C
v
ca
V O Q) C
U m a U ui Q) c N
C d N m
E s O U
U NE
L
C mO
U
U N
a
C
O
0
3
p
a
U
U
E
U m
NU
CD
U p a) U s v U m Q o U
C U
0- C
O'
c a)
N
Lm U) N
U
U U
Oa
0 U ~ O C V m
C
U c
E0)
m
a-
U
O
L- - 0
N M
m
U m
E a) _
a a p
tU
a Q) C
C
C V Q C>
0) U U E a) m
c A
7 ca 0. 9
v- R U C
tQ H fa 2 a) m
0 ca n
L- - C-
C Q) O E
C
ca O U C
a
p
C
im a $
a
CU
a)v
3n-- N
A t0, E
m O ca
v
a~
ca
u ~
a
0 5U
a
D
m va
s
3
a
m C E Q) V aC m
ca
C U a LLI
a 0
fa fa 0) 0) LL
ca
Q) C~ O C
m U O m C o m
s
CD
N Q)o S C C Q) m
fa 0
E 6> rnU v U > v m
2 °)U
O O> N O N . a O L O
E
U ca m p C. Q)
cfl a 1- U a co a~° a U~.et- • V . S 3 a
O
11 a= aa a o '
M
0
O
N
W
U
Q
z
O
O
U
C
W
I
w
O
W
Q
a
C
a
O
C
d
O
N 1
Q
V O
O
N
m ti
C
C
N
v
o
c
Q. L ^i
O L
E ,o
O v
H U o
C V
O
R
S
cC
C
L
O
la
A S
W L
N C. 4)
C~ o o 0c
r a) U c ca
t O7O A
mom
A of
O N
N
N fa C
C
la
IL
o N
3 4 ` o (
0O
N m
o~
cr a)
a) s
12
CU) O
V
cc
uj , o ca L) ' p)N
N U a
N
ti
N
0 oa O O
U) O-0
U
Co o
C.
O
c
t
o
C- a)
0U))N N co
CL 0) U Q-
L Q
cu o r•+ -
C
c
d
CL
E
D O EL- V
cu N co r_ Co
0)
O
O ' ry
ca
UQ O U O
C
O O
OU D
O N N V s N U
U>
r
U 3- C
U)
OO
C
O
CoO Q
et
p~
NN C
U) - 0 m 0) 0)
c Co
N
o a CO)
c f-)
c O Q
W N 3 =
o .
L
0 L N Z-. co
r =
2 : 3 Co 0)
7 U a N
0-- ~ O- Q
s
Q Ica Q- > hoc
M N NU) C6
U o mU) CCL 0
13
o C
4) c
O
Q~ 0 Eca~a)1 0a 0 O N ' p 7 o U N
cm
a E
co
Em
L)
N ca
QC L v
Eo
UL
CD
a m
o
2
L
C
0)i n
v
on
0 ca
o
a
oU) a)
i-. n m~
o
a
C C:
a. cc m
O N c cn Cc
O p M o L
O rn U Q
0
i
C
p ( n
N : 1
cin
0
M v
L-
c
ca
N
Ep O ,
L L
O
O
L - a+ LCL 0
V 0 O~ C)-CU M N Ca
O
C O
0
cn N
U cn
Q O C
p : p o
N 3' C-)
c N C3)
L m
cn
L C
D
0 a CA
c a)O
O
C d
L
C N
c
Z6 O
U O
t+
V
R
O
N Ntq
C O
Co N
C O
a)
cn
3
N
cn
c N
U Ecn
D E o p
C V a O
L
O L C O-'0
O
U O
U
O
t a
c N c CU QO C • N
LL 5 0
cQ
Q
p
e
O U Cn
c C am do o 3 a) c r 4= 00
N
R a c
0 cn
o
73
N O O
U 0
N O
0
N N
r a~
o
co Cam Q
U)
mo
O c J
c` i
M
Q E
QNE
C
to-
Z3 CM
E~ U)
C Q ai
m~0Nl t V d pCo
U
C C7)
Ca C
p OU
0
C L a
L
N
m z
O L Q)
to
C
O
O M
a)
E
U
L
N !
J
E
N
O E ' 2
CL 5 O Q 0 n 0 Ca
cn
o
co i N O N
3
O j
V N
d
O
o 0- 0
E c c
ca L
U ' O
C to
O
c:
O
C cn ca
s
C
N
N N C/) M O ca ~
ca 0) D C:
M M 0 O O T)
CL) N
3N
r N M L
O Q
70
M
Q)
N
O
cn p)
O C
co
Q
D U N
L
N
0
p
Q yo ca
E
O
M C
M
r
O c
C
E - 3 ca m
to
Co p 3
ci
N
O
O-
m
cn
UeG
N N c 0 r O p N N M Q d 3
0 U)
M L U p U
to N c6 ' O
C
M L
O
SL)
N Ucc M O
ccaM M Q 0 M C
L r
N
r i
O U O C r O r i
D
r C
Fa
C r. C C
N N
0
N p
Q
O L
W 3 V N V V C
0 0 CD
O o O
O O
J
O O ca N Q
ca E~ t7 cv a d a U a a o a Of c oOf
J.0
4-
A M
N d d
CO
r
N
c c
M M R
y ds
C1 N 9 p)
0 M Q
0
IM ' a
NC C.
cca E
M V
O
CL M o
N `oO
N
O
d
7 co
N U
S V
UN
N
N co
d O
O Z
H
M
O
0
0
N
W
z
0
O
H
CG
x
W
I
o
O
W
C7
d
a
s E
O
c o m
0 L
CD C p
a
O
C
C U) Q
N
Q
O C
U)
a+
t0 ca a) 0 !E
N CL
co C Q
C: U
E
L
U o
p w a) 0
U)
O
C
N v0 - C C c0
LL N j
c 0)
C U
en
C C Q.
3
O
a) CD
Vm
L
Q a) w
m
c
N D
6
C C U
C to
B
L
CU
C 0
Q
D
0 0
C: c
V
v
O IanCL
W cC
G L
IIC
D ( ncn YI C b
CL~
t.
0 V CL c C N
B
en cm
C E •L
E E
O
C M C N c0 O
0d
O C L
a)
C CD
L
c c a N
O
Q m
N M fn
Co m
0-
U o
d~ U Q
O
C
O
U
m
i? IC
evO
a Q
n E a) o M ca ai oy y
r ii
C U c toE C)
0 O
O C J 0 C: M
O O
tn O
p C N Q
O
to N L
E L) c L >' UL-
N
E c
O 0
C
C~
RS
G1 e- Q 0 ( D
E - 2
N M
J
CU 4
p i
Q
Q
cn
Nd
C
Q r-
E
0
a)
2 Uo
U)CU O
N 0
E o Q
N
a) ca w
N
4- u
V
CU c
2
Q) D Q) 0
a m p
O N
EIM N N U
C
cn
a
m
a ~
O N v 0
Q 3
cu
0
CV
t~ N
t/6~
i
ca O
U
L L
0_ LL
0- V 0 0 C
L
ca
C p
0
O
p
p
C m
ii O
4-
m
C
a) LO O ca co Z3 C _
0
to
C i C C
c6
U
O -
M 0
H 0 ti
CM
U
to
c0 F-
C C co
p ca p
r
Q
j
N ui
r
r
4
O C
Q.
C
c i m cli
U
Q
q
c'i c COri U- 0
C
C
i
L
C ai N N
CrA '
K. '
m
r C r c N Q-
L
r a) 0) r
o - a -
c-4 r
o vi
r O
ca E
r c6 O
o
c
O
3
m
c
0 O L
c Z! J
Q E D
CD
y,
0
U;
a
4) 0
o
0 D 0
Q
E o
o
a N COD) n
o
E- a E a CL a. a- Q Cl a co a m
J .0 w -
d v
CN
Z
M 75 co
Q
RN N
M M M
v.,
ao
v~~
a~ U
ms
m 0
CL s
cm 0 t3
r= a
c ca E c~a
j o
0
2
4) QL
N
Cm t V
t
N U) U
D V
m
4 o
O Z
I-
M
O
O
O
N
w
U
z
O
O
H
u
W
X
W
I
O
w
a
ca
a
nE
U
co
c
m
CO
ca
U
o n
O
E
U
0) a) Q U
r
ca c
2 x 4- ca
a) N
D O
O U
0
O_ Q V1 O O a
a)L
U 7
L a) O U
C) ! E
C
Q o
M
U)
c
E:F;
N°
c
O
6 a 0
c
2
co
c U a)
MCO vj
yd C O
c c
co C) L
a)
U
a)
Co CLNO
Q. U UOca c (
a
O
0
U
U
U c
M V a
O
c> co
a
c
O c c
cu
a
C O C Q)
C
0
o a
U) 0
L-
C c
O t0
a
d
0
U)
c
o°
N
N
c~
d 0
U
m
CD
Q
ai
c
L O
O) , 0
N =
N N
cm
7
0 Z3
c
V U)
0
CY)
m O 0
C c
O a)
O c J
a) m m d o m U)
a N t
O' >
U m a) a) N c
a
F5 0
CL)
v a)
o
ca _
Z
w
r
0
m
m o
U - 8-0
i.. a
Q. O
O O
o EO O M c
Y
a3 O U
O
C
4- . c O V
V
E
U
Q
U C
n
a) a)
c C
O
O
U N c
tl~ N
C/)
0 U
O 3
C 0
U
a)
U L
ca ~ c
U
L
wE
O 6
E co 00
f 6
0
a
C ( C
n O
w
o U
i- T a>',
Q)
0) i;_-
M
o
U
L
o U
O- ca
O O N 9--o M a) a) c ca
C v n
F
a) c
cm
O
CL CD U)
a m
cn
r.
ai
c
0
c vi
0- -
E v L ai ca a) a
CL 0-
T -E m
C i
N
O r ' L M d CCO ca f u)E
0
ca ~
O as
3
U V
o cn
Q c
a
V
o
0- 0
j cR V
a)
L
c ~ c
3 ca
a) o _
v 0 x
Q Q
O E Q a w o
a E a C/) a a co m c~ m a. ca
J 0
L. *
04-
N v
W
0 d
co
CL
N N
cv
L O
V N N
O R c O
CL 0
Im
O C. Q)Eea Em
QM o
0
0)
0
a U
om'
e0a' m
t U
t
H
V
U
d
N O
d O
O Z
H
M
CD
0
N
W
z
z
p
O
O
H
as
x
W
I
w
O
00
W
C7
Q
o..
7 o
O
ca L
N
cn c
C
cu
rn ca
0-
C
O Q
N
a)
E a)
0)
C
O
Q'o L
O
L N
a) _ 0
m
m CL ca I
3
a
L
C O cac o E 0 N U)
O) N
D :
30- C
V
N
C:
c0 D
C:
m O c
N
C - E
O C a) CO
O L
70
a)
0
ca
w
m ca O
0
a) E
ECl)
W_0 5 Z)
U)
a)
N O 4= f0 t E C Q0
R3 n ' O O
a)
a
a)
O 0 0 C ca C C
CL -.j
m ca 0 E
Q- c~ N N N c0 c0
C
E a)
B U) C 0 0
0
0) ( d
L
Q
m O
N L
O
j
L L L L
2=
L
If
z m a) o L-
E
L
Q U
Q)
S2 cn
cm
C ( Q
wQ
r
w L cN
cn
N
L m m LC) m co ti O
N
Ccn
O
CD N j 0 ON d C
cc m N co co
co N a)
y c~j V m N ~ -6 C C:
N
r-
L z
CL
L
CF)
O C O O0 Cn CL
O
N
Cl)
J U C N L O
O
C:
c6
0U
U
0 O C -
3 cm - 0
U)
O
Q
O
i
W
m
N 3
w m o
C. m D m° O C N
c cv
3 E 0
E
Q) z E O
E W N cn
J
C
co ( n ca a)
a) p a) a) ca
L U_
N
L
N
N
m
O p' O
U-
d N
CD
O
cm
0
to
CL
N m N
M 4-
j N Q m U
U)
C
O
0
p a)
N
N
E UO
I.. M C ia W C
V
A
v
in C/) a) O
O N j a coo c_
n
O C)
Q
p O C 0 O i
C
7E5 L- 70 ( D
K
i U
L ~ C9 a s a
O
a
x m c
w w N w
J U) H H Q O
L
LL
t w
EQ C
0
co
O N
M
c a) o~
C~ C
C° OL o~ tC N
0 CD N a) w N 7 N
Q - ca
a Z Co L C
CEa0 >
a) 0 D
c ai -o s o
d m c
ca rn
U) Q c
O a- cn
N ( D D 3G U)
3 L
R
d O
0 a)
C . N x W L
cn
LN c= N
4)
D O C k 04---
r o ( D > O
a
L
f0
3
U
p
o
a3
co o N C: > U)
V)
U)
L
N~
N
N N (C
C U U)
O
N
d J
S X
L U
C N
O L
C_
0
N
4
d L 5
O
U 0 V) Co
0 O
1) U - F
J
LL O
L
CA O ° N
CZ L
CL s a
s
W v E
L O
E
O •i
cm
ca 4-- N ca N o a) o a) a) U) N
O
V c
a) E
L-. L
S0), Fo c° L
a)
LL
Co
AQ N c
O
c
CA
c
L.
7$
a N
C OD Co
r W a) N c
7 co O C
C:
a) C
2 n
L O a) 3
O 0 Co
O O ( nO E a)
CD 0
N
CM 0
cu u O a) a) C °
C
C O C
U
L
X
a)
O
E ( D
C C c co 0 0
N E
CUC
sp a) N~ fa
ti Co
O N
p>,
C a)
E - a
C
cQ ~
U
N
Oc$
v a) - N 0) ' C N O C c ` ~ X
N
C C a)
U) a)
N a) n ° -
0 0 L a)
a) . L O to
cn c0
E
0 °
C W
C - 0 N A
v7
C t
p a) 3 cn ~
E
L C1 0
o 0)
n
to to °
0 a)
M a) -
in o
E a
0
E 0
C a)0 W . C N c N M m
O
tT N C- : 3
V C) Ln N
USU)
V CO
3
N V C :
r-
5 0
0
N V
U)
V
o
E UV-C V N
C O L a) C L- j C
CL Q N .N O CL J Q fn ca 3 d a. N a) a Z-0 ca .C a N~ a)
M
0
0
N
W
z
O
O
u
CQ
x
C
W
I
O
o,
W
Q
a
N
R ~
J = eo
V ; L
V
L .
i
L Q cc
4.. M c
V O C
M ~ C
ea
Ba Zw 4)
F-
c
a6+ ~
U)
C
m
0-
a)
N
c
a)
N
Q
O
U
c
m
U
O
C a) U
O_
L
p O
c)
m
U
c
U O cn
C;)
i Na) FD 3 3c~
U
0
O L CL a)
U)
C O
L
0 E U
U
0 m
U0 ° U O O
D 0
C aj
0- 0 U) a) L
LQ a)
0 V- cn D
L 40/ U m
cc
CD 3
U p)
Q)
a) _ rZ
m c OO_
N
C O m O
m O
c U
O
1)
N +
OU
O
L Q
U
a)
0 C a)
CL
U C
U)C
CO
U)
O ' O
U V
L
m
J
O
c
cn O
O cn N O 4-
CL O a) . c cma U
O
0
m m_ 0
L
o
E
a
c U c
L ( D
Q Q
4- 0
O a)
D LIJ
w
N
N
cn
C2
c a)
m
j 0
c
it E 0 LO a) tG
O
0 m ti 3 co
a)
N coj -O N C C.
U) N O N co
N Q C N
O Co N L O N M N t° N
U
O m
c 0
M a)
C U
m -
M CM v p UN U
oa)
cO ca O 0 O N O O D.
CL c 3 a cn a 0 a w CL U) co
O
IL
0 0
0 s
U
c cc
a)
V c U
L o c
a) U - LL
E
ca
s
w
O to i
C
c
O
0
0O
a) O OOO
S m
mC: CS
cc0
o U .c o
CL Ocnv
O
a)
UECU
w+
m
0a) mm
C2.cn
0
O Q
c ! n
Q L
a) U
tia) ca mn
a
o-
a)
co
E ca
co
c O O
a) c
C m m
U
0 m O
i
4) a)
4-0 p O
0 CO C
O O 0
QUA
L
L
U)
C
a)
O U
cn °
0. 0 N
CD
0 . N E
v Ua) a)c
Ca) m00a : L E a0)
co
O
a
Y U)
N cn c
c0L O ' L
CL L C- N
m )
7
c c E cn
O
c O c
c c Uca m o
N
a) U a) - Cc
0- - E cn
N
m ( t) LOO
m m
C[3 E
N a)
to
0 a) CU
m E= a)~
rno=
E. o U)
cm
m c c c c
O cON
L ~
L 0
m a) v
0 CL
o- QCUVa)c 0 c L
UmvQ
c
m
U
a)
U
C
a)
0)
m
U
C2
U
U
C
O L
ca
CO)
L- O
c
m
0
co
U
t0 >
a. m
O
o NU C/)
LO0-
L
O
a
O
a)
U
c
L
O
a)
0
ca E
U
m
2CL
CL
O
uj U
O
m :
3
U)
a)
O
C C U
O O
m n. a) o
to 0 U
CO 0) cnC
L O °
o
4°-
m
O N o a)
E E
M 0- m
O O - O
L- a) o N
W - 0 U W 0
ci - 0 ai U
c
o
o
U m
a m
a)a) cc- C
O
a)
O
L
Oco
L S: ,
v/° C;) LOa)
co
c a)U O2- a)
c a)
cN
U
Cl) cc a)
Oa) a)v
N O L
W O C 00U)
U) L-
LL
N W co a)
0 - r
a) to U)
a) ~
L
rn c
O m c
0
L
a) aa)) U c
j
c a)
O 0), m-
CD
mQ~ i c~
0
i vv
Cl Q N
L m
0 0 +>'+_a 0 to
L a)
m O U
m
LN
ONN a)
Q
E cn
U
L E
OO
OMO) OO
O
V
a)
c
m
co
U
CL L
Q)
G CO
L
Co J
R C
13
Q J
C L
R
d
V
C
O
Q
O CV
cV
O
CL. 0
O N
U co
C
CL
9
y
C N
J
S ~
L ~
CL
E O
V •c
O
co
UN
U
S Q
V
d
G
U U to ca
C
0 U O
U L
o O
co U a) a
O
N
7
U)
cn cn U) ca a m
O 71
m 0 N 6 c
m U)
Z3
c
a)
M-
O
U E ' 0
O
L - C
a)
C
cm
0
to
N
D
C:y
E
O
L
p
Q E ~
c6
N
L
cCa U
L
CD
N
0 p - O U C
C Ca
a)cm
C
ca
ca
4)
to
0 N 3 O
a N Ll
0
3
V t4
4_• to
3 c ca
y. a
a)
o
Q J
D
c
co c
O
C p~ A
63
C N C
N O
0-
O
U
c
N LA
C E
0 co O ca
a) a a)
0 C
O
ca ca
U
ca - O
O
U
cn o v E c
0
v
p 0
U
a 3 O Q ui
c 0 a) p a)
a)
m r- N O c
i0
a)
0 ( D vi _0 c
U a)
a) - 0 p' A) v co
C
o
N Q 0 N m m c`a c- vi via 0)
N cm 0) ( 6 Q U a) N p Q r 0 O
d N O 0
U
N D B
cn M d 7
N
O
R 13 M OR
E C: a) U)
L
S? A 3
I ON
O
0
N
C
0 a=-• O
C> i
O
D
L 'D
ca
N
p>
L
V
0
C
i E E Q)
O a) L U 0
U
O) p
C
a) o E E
L v
0
p
p
C 4w
C C2
O p E O o a)
0 c C U) co
vJ • V
E
L
Q
Y
C
N
0
w
OC
C O w
a) a)O
y s
2 M
a)
N to
E C C:
L .
L
p
O
o L
N C6
p+•
E
C U++
r
O
LA
r 3 0 p
0
L Q
N o N N E N a) O
cm
C:
UN O
DU
O
T ~ W= N C N C O coo
N m U N t! N m ~ j EN
3~ N U RS 4+
l
N O N C
Z., o a p O A
U 0- 5
U
p a) pN
U
N
c" A
O a
t0 . r.
p NU
L2 •
C
U
Q
p - 2
U
o-v U
3 N
V) C
U CV Q CV o
L•
O
a
c> O
w_ a
O p)
cn co
O
a
c cu
w E
o N
aly-, m
N o>
E
O C O
d w 0
O N
a_ 0
O X
a w M 0
EQ c .
a a E o O
M
M a) U N,~
U) c
o~ cac A2 a)0 caa
d
L
3 d C O
L p fa
CL 07 CL
U) a)
Q.
0
a) Q i 3E
U
D
C
0 0') 0
d C Q Oa)
LA
u) D A C E a)
W E
a)
C C
c
i
CL
s
0) U
c
N
o ~
NCO
U
m m
U -
aOa)
Q
L
o
O
f a) 0 c_
C
o o
Q o
U
a co C Q C
CL N m E a)
a)
Q
L
c CL
p
0 0- C-
a)
ca Ny
ca CY) C
A 0 ca
N C ( 0
0
O - Oa)
C
cc
O N
U O
N
c U ca E
M a) - 0 o
o
N -
C C
ca
o O c O
C-0co
c
U. C U
U
M Co
wN
Cc N
0 o
L- cc U
co
N
N c
U >
i
Q
N A j >
fa ca Ca
Aa) ca U U a)
c ' s co
O
a) C ( A p
U
ca
E U
Ca cL - c s
C N L_ 0 o
O N N a) ai s
c "L3 O
0O z
NN Q N 0)
0) U) CU
O0
Nc
01 o
O M
C 0 a)
M
ULA
c
A C C
o a)
C
n- N a a LL cLLv C U N
LA O0Q
4
C
CM 0)
L •L
N
0
E N
c
O . C a) o N
U W
r O)
U C
N •WO
E a) E • C
O
c c" E
M
N 0 a) U U X
oLu
a) ~
U-
o ( DN N
Q)
V cp
c) E
c c Or
N U
C
a)
a) Q m ) ED
0E
o
N
0
cam N
a- 0 4)
a a) c E
Co-0 od
U m O
o E
E
E ~U) o
a)n
c
M
co O-~ Ea)-c a)
C
v ca
0
c
00
a)
AO Co 0)
cn
0
a) E
0co
m 0 Cn 0 0 ca fn
0 CO
a a) 0
C
Q 0
ap o ia) a
v
u . a s CO
0 N2
0 3t0 0
c~ c
Q- a) jc_ 0
ca ~ i 0cEE ~ EEaXi 3
Ca o
L ns
a) Co 42
c N v
a
U
QO
a) c D
E a)
C
N.U
N
L E
HN
CE
J
o O fo
a) E a)
C Q
o
o E
cad C
C LA
co c aL
C E
o
H
O
m U ( a
0U) 2Q d LL.2 v i ca C E COCO) U)
M
0
0
O
N
W
z
qZ
a
O
O
E~
E-~C
W
I
w
O
N
W
Q
a
ui o o -( D- E
O- ~ U CO COQ
U
C U "
L
O)
Q L+ U c > -
C C a) N O Co V) -n Q
U U
a)
pU _ c c6 3 _
U( L
U (
D
D a) OL ' p C
0
C E E N
O
Q a) p C N p
L E
0 - too cm
0) to U-
L
O O cr E
C N
0 ' n 2M Z vi m ~ O C
C: m
CL --j o 0) 0)
0 - C.) U E
E ui -
0 C: ( D
cri O a) - 0 ca T= as Q 3
UC C U m - O CD U p Q
cm - ( D a) p L N c6 OO+
d-:i U U m u)
E Q C a) o
v o m
L o
o- - a o a) cn
3 ui
p Q m m a > o r n
v) Q cCOE ~ a) cn Lv a)~ ~- o( D
r U)
0) Qm O ° CC >, o Co
as ~ i - 4--
C C
o C
m a)
C:
t - O O o o a) _N CV C
to i C c0 O
C E U) C Q cacu - 0 =
O m E 0 o~ E o (
D
of C: v
V C6 m ca ui co o M O Q) ' L
L LIT a) u)
L
O)N cn 3 _ 0
L. U OL C U N C c6
C O) o m - 0 O ca
C C N-
a) E
C " m m = p O
CD m3 a) (
L6 C C
L > -
p U) O p m
J V V O U O L C O O CO a) U ti O U
a.. Q
L p r N r L r U
a) - 0 cn U) C
L Q
L
p U)
U5
U V N 12
a)
o)` N
N - q- a) N O)
M C
L U - . C N cn O C Q) N E N co m
a) U _ L _
0 a) 0
N
Q) ( D V N
3 p U V Y V p
C
V C 3 ca In - j In o O H - 0 U O o C 0 c 0)
i ci a Q ca cv a 2) a w o
Q c E
M • C r- 0
o
O o ui aj c c a)
o o `
mod. 00- 0 = U) aci Ecs o
COC) cu ca ca ~~()
y( n
g
oi
N U a) c w
H 0R a)~ Eoaa))~a) tea) vivccooo > CLa_a))~a)
Qi a a) N ai
to C U) N - 0 v7 a) N j E cLaL _
O
a M a) N(D N
O O
a)
a) - 0
O N
v
N U)4) CO a) co
ev O L a) o o -
C E s ` N U a) c
U) r-
U) ~ C a3 C -
co ~to C Q
L
U - p ( N6N O N
CO
sCCo r-
a`l )-oco
co C:
0) 0 ~ a~ CEv a~ voi~ca
L o cox ( D
v) O ? m `L° CO
0 0
N
N
0" U v0 ) ° Q C~E 4--
O
Ec s
L -n= 0) o. ( nN cocuiC ~ mca
O . U C a)
m C co a) L a) c m a) N o . s U)
L O U C $ N L- =
1 0 a) CD a) -
0 C:
O a)
co
a) a t1 cA Q _ 0 a) : 3 - 0 co
w
U
a) 0 a) c> cc
c c . N
C > 0- 0 " O
O
s L O O cn N N a) O
D ( na0 . a ca p
L E f0 f0 • N C E a) w L a) L
co ca )
N OL (D
L CD
0 a w
O a c
u) - 0 CMt U
x
c
O
0
O C"
V co a i) E ~ p o U ` p U L
Oto U) _ 0 a)
N t ( D a) O a) O C~ O U) ( D O
ca M O . C
V t O 4-- cn LON ( NO CO
U)
N = CO
O.
C • L O)
0 - C o O o
ca
CL. c is Q
CL
cLa
C N : 3
N m a o-•c
V
L N ca a) a) co
c S c) E m a) cm C M U = 3 ca N a) C
0
E C ~ a) o
0
O-
f0 c
s X O U N s U) U O N -0
cu E _I_- w cc U) cu
0 a) " t 0)
N O N a) " a - p c a) M C- 0 cos N(1)
N
N U O io 0 c`
c O$
co
C) v -
0 CD (
D 55U)
co
s_ a A N> A
N
Co 0
ca - coA
30 oa v >° os
v ciLoLC v E~ 2-cE0 0( p.XOO 0a) c - oQrn~ ' o ~ 2r
00 •
o o~ Lco~L
a) ( a = caIL cnEx=0 . 8--c a Qcu- a a a. a) -
co
n°> oc-caa n. ZEca00)Qn
0 C/3
cv c
co
Q
C ~
a~
N Q
y N
VJ c
C CL
m
J O
E U
O Q3
UC/)
5 -
J~?v
L Q • C
M C
V O C
L V
C 0
M . O C o
d
ca
5
o oc
B ( L 0 co
ca
N
U : 3
co • a) ' L
0 E2
co
N c
G1
L L
O m
C. M
p
U
c c co
m e
d
O 0 O Q a) N a
tC O
N
N
C cB
c
Q c
c9
E
s-~
c0
ac
O N
C
Q- O
EON`
ca a) M 00=)=L
C.
a)
cc 3
O co
O N O U-
W
E
U
c
0 m 0 CL
Q N p j
N to Q-
r
06
7 00
U N -
0
0 C) - 0
O
L 3
0
A? a) . r c0 O_
a)
caCo
O
N
M c
c m a)
C) a)
W V
c N O N N
N
U) 0 Q cu " O -
0- c3
p
1) 4--
U):=a) o L-0
0
CL E ~f
3
V
N
O
Co a
x- s O-0M
C
O cn
X
C N
c
C
r
O
N c0 0 U c
C ND
D CL
0 0 D M
r .
C a) cc
w V A O C to
0
O
O c0c u
O N :
3 0 z O 0 E V t1
L N co z O
O
IL
O U o
v a~.~ a
p
s
O N
a
O
a
ca a)
u.-
O
a
a)
s 0o- 0
M
O
0
O
N
w
z
QZ
a
O
O
U
C
w
O
W
O
M
N
W
Q
a
0 N
G as ' C c OO c!) m
a) 0 - O E N ca
E ° w a) n c
O
L C V L
O
co N
0
r- m LL
NA N M O O- O a) E c U)
O N O n fl
o U)
p o
C C C N - 0 N
O Q ~ O
L
N
O
0 ~
n ca ~
a)
N 042 ~ 0 Q
w 4) L: Q- C C a) co a) 0) - _ O c ca O
Z 4> > 0 p n C a) c U ca ca a)
j 73
C
E
v ~
0 O Om tD ! C i
L t RS -
0 O c O U co c
n U a)
O
a
3 m 0) E a) a
to ~ V E O L O O a) 3
V
CM
U) >
M - 0 = •
C'
C c O cn Q O a) 0) a) 0 m c U O a)
O o m
e c
cn n a)
c
0 ( D
u
L-
0`o r- ° Nc 0
0 o E Er- O
L. - C
N) m~ a+
M G.
0
t a) C)) c O O O~ c O
6. 0 o U)
CO 0 - a
C V N d d O C Q c rn c c c . v co c to c
cc 4) 0 _ U - 0
c N c c
ca " 0 - 0 cua) a)
J o~ dC c3
ca
Co w
70
EO -( D
E~ - a E
c
0
LpIM - Eu) E E E 0 - O- Eo
0 0 0U) CL ca m ~ y c a) o 0 0U) 0 U)
C co Ems cao00c a)0 0( D
L mo 0
U- - C v E o M . E- a o a a o a)
M cu c 0- n
J ! 0
0
O..0_ N O N ~ O n n 0
N N
O • n 0 _CD
U) O
cm c c 0) c . N CD ' C) O V O C)
c c
p N d p p to d _ a) _ 0 O L O" O _ V. 0 0
d(~
m
p N. 2 0~ Lc o 0 0 O
cU oU ~ C) 73 <
C 0
0 U c
O .
p
N ca C? a ca a a N ca - 0 ci _ 0 ( 1) a N M
LL
aceNV'~=L
4) ( 0
CL ~ NV~
C°
o~ mn ~ c-cati
I- 10 L) Q a 0 0 0 : ; Co
iii CL 0 0
c vi
L. d c
ca a)
Cl)
0 a :- r a LO ~ O
L-
a)
v4- 1 O
a
N
C
O' ' O d vi 0 v0iO . 2 C
iii (
a C U a) C rl_ a_a))
N
c O..>_ m 00 coa)E Lo "" 0.`
0- Mr
c~
0
c o o c a° ~ o - 0 o
f
ciN 0 a0
C w U)
M s M N N N- o 0
O N> 0
a) E ca
E ca
21 CD CU V) cr C)
da;° ooNQoL:- co0r0 a)
v
E a~ _ o 0 > 14- r LO
a) in 0 v m. 0)
0 LL U) a) a) o
H N C14 c c Cl) o a)
0Qc co
c° to 7~ U
L (
tea
co 00 D)
ca Cn - U c c 0
co CO
p a) c
M CM pNn a)U 0. NCUa1') ~u)) ca)a) 0a) ~ 0a)
CC
L-
A O. E
c? C VU~ 0Q ~ 2! U) r c _ 00 caps $ U
R m0 a) . s E t p D
0
o c cn
o
w o C 0) 0 ~ c-C c>a
U) ~ 5
2
0
0
G7 7
N c N CO - O
a) - ca a) L- Q a) Cj) •
L O a) " s
6- CL 8) o U) - C
d V V Cl) c n c W co C a) N~ ca
0) ca = 0) N
0
as
d 0 0
3 : 3 >
oQ cN
a) cv CD >,-0 0. S c
ca
n'sr, a) U N G
C.)
U " Fn U ° ti c U~= m 0N
u1) a) L) 4)
o$0) : 3H a) a) CO
N
ai~ Co ~
o$ 0
c ~
o
a
O N E s
c 3 c a)
c ch CoV
0. ~ s~ O A~ co O. c to w m o CO O H O 0 0
0 a 4) ~ p . v o Q' to . 2 0 N
o w 2 Q N 0 C O
C: - C
V $ a) N
CO) L- 0
a L a° 0 0o a° 0 acaO.S m cd~ 6 - v ai a° SoU)
U)
so
w U
Y ui E v N c
a)
ca 3 N cu U ( V O
M o •O CY) N 0LO Co00 D cn
a m 0) 0 a) in CV to E m O a'
to
a)0) ( DO N a) p LL O uiL
A N C a) 0)
L ~
0 a)0 c
T{ 1
402 (
n -
r- LOL
V/
a C) 0
E O
o~ c ~ aci o0 ~ cXa~-a o
O Cf ca v c c c E
a c
to c
p
U) 0
C C
C co to
N o p ~ p o co N cn
O_
L
U U N
V . a a
C _
O O U N
L~ `
F-
t6 U ' O cn
a) a)
O L C U
C U M OC N U O N U-
O
L O_ O)
U) J U) O a) ` lV C o 0 M 0 C NO C O U O O L O O L O= CO L
N U a) to O O M N ( 1) ~ UL s 3 - c0
o
o o
N _
o
L O ( j) a) a) C C N
w ' d L _
0 ( na
o
U
Q +~c 10 c U
cn o a p 3 s
CM c - Q)
tU N C 0 U - N ~
a 4-
OU t LO - Q
O)a O R
C:
a)
3
to t c 3 m c
p O C U O O C co - c cy) U
0 ` m ca
d O 0 C 4- a)
a) co
a) U +
s~ L- O c N Q
0) - 0 U .
U
fA N 0, cn
V a N N ( n Q O L Q O ca
U
CL cp
O Q L - p
O L
0- 0 U
L O
O U O O L
co
O
R d
O +
U = 70 C O 0O O LL N a) O Q C t7 a) Oi 0 U) U
J
40 O C L
C 4- U CD N° o o° C L
G4)
C
I 7 E O Co
U p
L
t[) O= O ( n U O co O a) - 0 M , C")
tna= ea~ o cv~ cm ~c > 4( n-0
C° mw EE~~
O
p
O
O 70 o 0 Co ( D - m°~ ~ 0E co o~ o - c r~ U)
15co >
C: M M a) U)
LL • O u E
rL 22) 4- cu 0- qrQ O c m . °
p_)
U U- c pJ 3
U U C M L O 0) 0)0
O O N~
co ° o c") co 'U a o 6 0 c w m (
D 0-
o a ` o m
s c~ a°i 5 N, =-0m.~ o co > a
cis
Ca: 0oUpa
0
tOAd C
C o o cu
XO
0 a) U U c 0 0 I - O cu c o O CO >O N=
N C
C~ H=.v
UU a)~.~ a p~ C)-X
cu tn= C° aC~ N» :
3
ci _ 0 a Z E: 3 w m - 0 ci o a) 07 w E
LL to d
d Et~ v:°3~
to ; rn
C A- C N v C UO U) d L U O C E v c
L L L
o
U 7 a)d O O co -
i. to N) r- O O O
N
O C v~
d 0
V .N d to to A N - p U U C U
Q C ' d o a) - a c L N o
3 s v 0 R N O O: 3 M C c O C) U O a)V O ( a Cfl co
s
10
y La o a
co E U) - 0
r
c =
3
L (
n
W
ma O a) c
Y/
4. 0 C O > > ~
co '-
0
N
a) - C co ° v con ° to
cn as Q
O = a N Lm c6 a) . c o
U O$ -
v Cl) to
r o *
r
C d c o
c c` c LL > CO O co0
cc
c 4-
aNi
s as c Q a) ~ to ~ m _
0)
L
U)
w. L d J O E C U cm O aU)
O C. co C
co
E to Q a) CL Q c vi
a)
o 0)E d - O O - O C C O O =
4-- Co
C~ C i 0 t=n U U co N O N
U U U U c
L0 = 3
O V L Lm o E C ~
N N iii ~ co
C,4 c '
y O O
O) C C C N -O M U " O
CO
O
H N r~ U) 0 N C cc to 3: 3: O L a)
C 3 i c M O U) o a) C Co ~>,'C
O O C 0 M -
0 0
4-
Q
C0
0I O N O CO O O Co
ca
E~ O c O (
1)
rn (ML-0
C -
co
N +. O N C
o e tn
Ua Q to O
E u)
Q N O N co
C: CU
c o~~ c8 + r
N
c = U)
v> c
cL O
C di O C c C C O a) O
a) U c cn c ` L X C, U)
O t E c E to E
E It E L Z= rn E
L
E o c
o
co - 0 o' X
C
V 0 N E CO a) a) to c O C - p a) a)
C1 U) ' O O U V
01 ' O C ~ S C p ~ co
a) a C C
d d U) N N C L
Q
C= O C 0 0 0 ~ O e- - 0 N N
0 - 0m Q
V Q' i 0- 4- co A
U
Op0 O" C Q. O C O ' O C N
U 0)0
a)
E
4--
N oO 0 U) 0 - 0 Ln co
V V! N ' y ' N N co Co de L
U a) N = • N N ~
O to
O Q d O U O O U 0 v - 2 a) O 0- CoN O tUn ~j 0 v
CL
0
CL U U oU 5Q ° a ' o
o >
U oU' tnU 9 cvn. 2 o X Nc co -
6 a O s cd - d tj $ a wc~ ci
o a)
C
LY r+
p N ( 6
O L
O a. i 3
E cc
cu j CU C
co l
U 42 ~
n cn 0
CD C
N
a) aj
U
ca
m a)' U
m
U
U O
O U a)
OCU O
E
r- E O
A U)
EO=
U)
a)
O O D
UE-00
L
a) Q a) O
E
0 cL
0
U o
0 co 10C C CD CO
0
Na)
L ( Q
a)1 w
L
V) a) CO Cl
C
i+ a) Q
a LL n " WC Q N
cumV N
0 0 l a. a N°
U) _
0O
n
M 0 W
L
0 LL
E
0 (
D
p
NL
d
N
a) 3 cno cv a)
Uj a) ( n
U
a)
t i C
m Q
V U
LL c
O
0)
O
LL
y.. ' C L O O i
V) c C: a)
E
H ' O V
O
V
CU Q. -
D V)
U c
0
N~ - 0- U) A
O
O_
Of _
L N ri
N
0 ° 0 a) 3 m O a) a _
0
U) o
C O
N 3
N
N O N
t c
r
n
C LL
ro
U
C
J Q
0 0 0 M o
t0 ( o
C
O
0 0 O
O
G
a0
c (
D ai 3~ aoio
n a) U)
0 E
N
N m N
m
a)
Q N N
O
C V N d d
O
C
9 Z
O C
O o ~
O E C
U)
a) +
j
C
a)
O
O EJ
V n
p
co c
pp
C U 0 0 V O a)
C
a)
W
O O O C O co
O
O C
O
70ca =
C
O D
0
r
O O w-
ZJ
U O 7 L
o
a- C> C C cm o C
U
to m C O
E . n
c E
U0
N
co a) co - 0C C C L C 0
ca E
0
C O O
LL
Lo Q) E 0 m O) p E a a) ooE ti D oo a) M o
J O oQ
M ~~
aa)i
a)
co
c a) Loa) CO)
0) C D
o(D
0
ri
L
r- ch N
4w
d t0 = O
N
C
N C M NN oM O
L NN N
N tQ
C
C U v -N o i N ~ c6 vtB o
O
o V a U QN O
i O
CD
U)
wp
o
n
U E 2 C_ CL
N i 0 0 O O O
E
O
O N m
a ( a =
m
a)
CL 0 CL U ° co s~ a z . a 1) LL a cn
C L
N_ L
co 0 O 'p 0
dLN~
42
O n
L C
0
O ( 1) C
c0~~ a.- 0 CO
Hew v=
4)
o
n N75LL C 73 C vi C
0
V O
V
O
55co0 4)
cai
0- 0 a- N O U a)
arn`
c
o
LL
3s
d w+ Ri v O
M nv w
0 C vO O
OCoC C cv ( n
L
Q C 7 E t
Q. N
C
L a O Q. O c6 N
to
ON
O
CU CL X
L
C N a)
w+
Oy O L a) a) a L~ Q N
0 N o o
lQ i C
cc
C
co
0C a
o
CO =D
C
L co O O
N L
C o co
rr a) C
CA
CD
c°~
a) C
sas
U) J
n - C
N L
aim- E
m
Cb a) t i~ N
C
d d d o U 0- a) N V c C LL °
0 O~ - O 3 co c
G
t~ C 2 Eai) UQ C~ ooO~ O, CEa) ten Cc Co N c
Q O
O N U) O= O a C uj O N L C 9 co
N Qi d
p tq N
d
A N
0)
3 ; U
C U
U ( o
a) c D C
n o
O C C
O LL ( 3) Co p
O
N U
s O
o
C 7 i C+j U M
O
O~ O ( n m p 0 p- (n • C ( L
L
a) E Z C O a) a) p
V C
ON
U
Oa
o0
0- a)
os U
O
C-) Z a)- O NpL
0 CU ( 1)
a0
a) 0) ca
Co ca
S~ c~
C
co
L
to -
0
a)
o
a
N
O
0Q
7
0
C
i
0aa))
o O
0 0
o0.~oc o
a N a)
C
m
C O
0
0 - O
c
C L
O
LL 0C s > C
U.- Cc 0
L
C O)
O C N C O M L
n ( n
C C
0 0
O
d V =
1
Q)2
v
0
E a)
a)
m o U)) a)
10 U)
N Ocu a) O) -
0 5 E
co
A N c=
C
o m
O O N D N U)
r
O
Y Q0- 0 a) a)
O N CU -OOco
C - 0
a3 N
co
y
U)
o
O
O
C C
co O
L
cA
O
LL
m 0) ~ii
C
0 C N 7N
d t0 E
OO
O U L
o
o a)
O0 : D - O o o C O OV N .
VOO
A
v
L A
v
O
L Y N N 6 2 A -- C c0 - O O ( n
rn C p
C p= V C
C
O
Qd
O' O
a))O
O O O
a) ~ s : 3 r
a) a)
ca
Co O M
v 0
O O N X
o 2~ to
Q ca E
m ~
2 a)
1- 0
Q
N
N
CL LL. a mtA m Ea.
O ( 1)
a z ULL~ w cv~
M
0
0
0
N
W
z
z
O
O
E~
W
i
o
w
O
O
N
W
Q
a
0 LO c
U a) C,5 C i
r+
3t4 o. r
a)
tU
t
NBC
O
U OOb
Q 9
a) d O ~
A i I~ c cn LO~Z) 0
Q)
O
L
CV
a)~o a)n
O s
U)
m
of ca ` t a)
c N ca
C
N
M
0 U)
0
0 ca
E
U)
a)
U)
o
Nm aa c
0 te
ca
4) ( D & Z CL
CL
U)
m
E
L
L cp
Q)
cu 12 Q i.0Z
p 3~ a~ n
0 t
D..
O, c~
V
a a) Ca
n=R: O V U
c
Q
D
o
Q-
0_
n C
4+ _ . L y M
cn
C O3 cn
N O
L a) O
4w
to
c
ca ca
CL
M C O to
N 3 4
tU N
4
n i o o
Q
Vi
n-
c}a N
t O c a)
cn
a) c
u
N Cf -
a
o 0 ai
0)~
p
CL p a a)
4-
E
C V N d d O
CO a)
N c En
U
E_
m
O
m~ E0
V a) CN
N Y 0 to a) a) N a)
p 0 d C Z3 ca 0 Cl)
to
N E p _
L CN Q
Q
c
O m
2
j Q C
O
0
i2
O U
U
V i O C= O o
r.
C o. c E E~
ca
O. O M
1m LL '
m °
o 3 a) 2!' E M 0
O
a
Iv M 0J
C7 p j N C,)
co
73 to 0-
n- O U w
O
M
0O
C
Q)
V O cap
4* 0
O C
N
V
t7
N O
0)
N
V
L O
O ~ cu N
a
N
f~aU) M
N L6 ca u Q o p
U
O
a
t-
30
O to s ca
CD O
a a
O
a
O_
Q N
O
a
O
U ; c ca C~ Q m a
ca
of 4-0 L
LL= Lcia L
et ' c M 4.#
3
a)
c to LO
co a)
ce
a i to 4
CM _0 0
P cu
0 IV . 4)
U
C
to
a
a)
O' v
CUmi~
fto t1 to d 0)
ca s-
C
C
r~
c
L
Cl) p a)
EE- ` y~~'
s_
Ny N
c U)
4- A
r ( 2
r CD r-
J
acCU LL
W
a)
U
a)
0)
c
LE . 64
s- O N
d a)
cL ccElu4-
t~
cL co
aT 0o=._ V
C L.O O
N co
C
lu v; N rn a0)
a) ~
C 7 r cvj 2 0 o c
M i0 Cf CN
4--
l~ c UV
a) o a)mc
0
N
U)
a> ' o N U a) N -
L
Ot. O n c
E - c ca
a~
0 rv
iu
s
N
tosa)
0
aca° oz
N to
U) Z m
p tnc M
s o a)
v in . a)
L-
L-
vO vO
E- c:
a 3:~ L'cn
to
cr
o C)
o
c U
ui ca cn
cn
o o
a> > tD
O)
N III L
O 0) 12 N ( n O
cn
CO
O
CL
O
c -
1) CL 0)
ca
cn
i
U)
Q
E
U)
O1
V
C
O
N o
t 6 to
CL
d
U
1)
LO
ca - O
O
C 0 0 Lu
U)O 1)
C CL Q LLI C NLO c 3
o
N
Q d to
Q C
D j
C O
a) U)
0LLJ 0o
L-0 ca cn
0
C Lo
a
cn 0 cn O
co
O
U)
N
L
Q)
C
d O
CL
co
o o
I~
C o U)
Co
3
N D
CD
v
D
3
o
O tn
U a'
a)
c O r_ ch M
mmw
N
aV:,
C\J
Q
C 0
cam
C
o
c
a)
aL o ui
o
Ea)~(D 3~ a
c~
N
n
o
rA LI EU v o mo~ u, m
d 0 L
O
S 3
U E 3 0
i. to
Q
U C ca
Q ~i
o o
0
U cu
2N m
4-
o ENo
n
1) S cn c~
U t
L. ,
C
Lf)
N
x
N C
Q
LO Q
3
N LO
to
O
0i C r N 0O (B - 0 N M N Ln C6 cq
N ~ 3) U N ca U ca CII U
tl>
C r
d
N
V
m N
V
a) E
m C C
N
N cm N
p
O_
Q
N
N
O O
VC
M 0) co : E5 O O M 4-
N
H O
C7
i,
a
p
s
p
a
c O+ -
D o-
O
a
O L p
L
U C
M
p
a
N
Q
L
U-)
L
C 4)
0 U)
4) 0
mV R CL
H IL
O
pZ
Nance
0
o
4) ~
U)to
C t 0
te
Mc= aEa
0. 2
Z c c U cam - o
LO d 0
o
0-
U m
H- 0O Sv
pim
V) v v
a iN
d ~
O
Z
M
O
0
0
N
w
z
a
O
O
u
W
X
W
I
w
O
00
N
w
Q
a
coo N cQ
t c
O
L L m
c
O
N
d
d
C
C
m
L
1) a U
0 f
m
7
O a)
Z
C C C
O
3 C
0
N Ma
O cn
N C
C
a) 0 C
N
C
O
o
U
0
p
0)
E O
O
coo
v
Q d
o
C(D
4)
D
m
cm ~
Q
0
L
0
C:
D
L N
C Q) tQ - a C N L
m
O
C ui
d c
m
CL Q. p
3 U
c m N
mL N
N O
0
E
CU
N p
pa
to
Q c O
0 0
L
O m La) a) cnw
0
U
U)
y p m c
U)
3
0
3
0
n ca M
N to
O
cyy~ cU
L
d
a)
m - O U ca O)
U)
V
y C yS C P U) C O O
L
O)
C
a)
U)
C
m s N Co O O 0
p a) 0
0 o c
Q c Q
O
rn
i '
0 u Y
O
U n m O
L
O
L R Z. o
t3 C -
7 N
r
to W
m cn
O
Q p v O N
W a) 3 0 m a) L1J L
m
N V
U E O m n U) O
V= y
d
U)
N> N m M
LLJ
i O
CM
a)
C>
1) N Q
U O
u
Q) V
C
O C/) Cco
O a) N
VM m
a) r C CL cn
O a) 3 E5 N O M
N 3 N
c
L cci3
0 o U
L)
L
U)
o
In NCM Lo Sri a) a)
C
m
Q
IZ a) m N m D
0 Q O CCL
CV V
C N N N a)
n d C V O N
C
Q m u Q Q cam) O
N
d V
O m
L N N O
ca
0 m O m
c ( n E 0
CL
3
m
O a 0 v p
p C9 c 3 a a c+3 a cn o a C7 a) C7 a a m
N
H C
0
O c
o o m D
t3
c 0 0
CZ v
a) 0- 0
o~
a)
N a_°i
0'
a~
c
vEun p
M CL sZ
L
O w
LL
N m c L
ca C
V L
m c C to
m m C a) c co O c
a) O
3
N U)0 N N s~: mv s C oU
vZ p 2 D m E m 0
to Sri
UV 0d L
m o ~
y
m
O. cn
3
L
m m
a) o
L
m C
U) o
O 1a
L
Q
c
C
M
O mtl) U Uc
L
cc
N
C cc
O
Q C O
m
N
E
O O
L
N
4) 0
M
i
3 O
Dt co
O U C
O
0
m
O a)
o U
m U N O
0
O O- U
y
0
Q
0. U O
co U fQ
N
U a s iv
O
O O O
U
m
L
of Q Q~ -z 0)
O
U) o a) Q a LCL
0)
a) m-C v
C
a ca co
0
U)
3: 3
a)
Co o
0 0
0
N C
C
RJ
C
O C _
V M R
O
U
L
w
s E c=
0 C
m a
O
C 0 m
O
c i
41
w V
m
3 N
O O
w U
0 n
O j v O
o
d V
d
er ~ n
c -
W Q)
P O a) N cm
D a)
V
0 0
a)
rn
U
CO O. . ca
3~
C U)
D
O m
N
U
O
O
CO O
u i
a)
i p p C- 0
m m
U~O cvi CO CO
V N N
N X
N O
cn
0 D
6
Q
C Q
0
L C 0 j a)
a
a)
m d
a) 0 te
cU
0 N
Ca
Z O' U V N
x
UJ
V C O C- U 0 m~ C c
U
0 U O v i '
3 0
0
N
m c) O U* Q
C m
o
0 p" O D j46
0 0 c
UO
m
L rn
cC_ O M : 3 O C
m U
w
to m
L cp O U L
m
0 w
m
0
a)- 0 t m E u) m > c E - Cc
c: cm
O O>, Cn o r_ C m
L
C
3
LL
a)
m C
3 E
0
oo o
a)
n
a) O
U)
a)
p
0 N a) C C _
A C
r
cn
COco
cc
P N
P U fn ca UU Co
C
n
U O co C- rn a)
m
Fa
3
O N
O
0
0
a) a)
CM
F-
m
U
Co
0
H
c t m a)
Cc
3 0 O
L D
O O a) p N;
v i m m a) a
m E a Wm N ci
M
O
0
0
N
W
z
Q~
O
O
U
X
W
1
w
O
N
W
Q
a
L
Q
L
cn
0
6
U E L
a
o
U O
C) CU d s a) a)
C: 70
N o O
CL
ca
o
c
o cm m
CQ
v c c
0
a) o-p a`))c E
a) ( D
cw I
ca c o w ~ Q
a)
N c
O to O U) m
s
s
to cn L
c N
L
C LO
0)
C:
D o c Q Q 0
L. U) V Q
V tp O
Q
m
o
C 0 O
L C
C m
4) c
m
CL Z V,° aci a) i>
co t
L c
0 a) ca m
N
o 0 a) n 0
M CU
3 n U E n o
O
r Q)
CC N N 6 cn 0
U 0 a) a a)
L
L
p d c~ o o
c
o w c
C: C:
ca+- vi a °i c o
t/1
m
O o • c a)
N
L
m°
O cS) L
E
a U) C
ca co w 3 O
N C U) N
m` 4Q
N a) m
3 N
Lc
p 3c`~
Q) O
n
a) >
3 L NCL
s N O O N
a)
N
U) 0
s- -
0 0 0 O
Q G1 a N
L O to
0
to L
O
s
a)
L
cn
N
a) 0
O s
C:
M cn Q
V
L
Q a)
U k
C a)
CO N O L- C
a)
p cc 0 a) o
0
n N
U) C
E
O C
E 0
1LLr CD 0 D1 - 0 N
O y O
I
V1
vJ
0 Q.
O
n ca c
L
u
C
L
a)
U) O ( n >
O•• O
N
L O N c cn
H U° a)
m m o ns
m Q Q s U) ° c
s c En U
a
a)
s a) _o
tr
E`
a)
OVm U
m s
0 0 0 a)
a) a) m 0 Of ' 0 Q)
a O a
M
M
O O
U
O Q) tt9 OU0- to C O C r
C6 a) to a)
1--.
N
L
C:
m a)
L
ca
Q ' C 3
Q
L
a) ( L6 LC) M a) LO tt9 s N Z3 m - 0 OL.
d a) N M 00
N a)
cn
N
a)
C N
C O U CL
L
Q Q M C
CO V
O N 3 C v ii Q
M
V Q) O Q
a
Q
a m w
a)
0 O p o
c
W 0 U 3 U) m U) 3
O O O c~
O
a
o
a
O
S m u) Q
M
C9 m
0
n. c7 - 6 a a a)
N L
0 to ca
N
O
C
O
D
c
ca D
a) c
C
W O rn Oy
LL V ca cucu a) CC c N Q
V
V L- C O L co 0
ca
U) N O
m
U)
a
to
N
V
a)
Q:
0
C C
i
L
o
t1
O s N
cc
m
Z
a~ Oa o
r
Ov O a) u-)
s
V
V1 vri i hOi4) o
LO QL
D
c
c) oa) we O c N 3N
a
N
ca
C
a) • t n a o ca
a)
0
tgm U) z Vo
N
Qc0C ca
a
a 0) c
O
0° s to
U)
4' E
a)
U) a) s
0V
L t t7
O
CU D
a)
C c a)
E
cc o
Q c
s f6
ct c~ cL a) v>w
c a * 1 E O c
O E
co
O O° icc c
ca a) mom' 00 Q
yc ia O ca ca d acio yccC"
E
ID Q v oQ co a
cn CO CO Q
V N 0 O
O
0 > 1 LL w 0
a)0) c Uca
CL N cxP
0)
ca a) 3 e} L O E Or
O
Q CO
O
v-
N
a)
U 0)N
a) L p
p d; Q
V O
d0
c_
Q1--
0
O
O
N wV
L cjC') COC) N N i
C
O
A N w
U E Q N L
O M a CO
a!E El E
N s3 rn U
v
a)
c
o
a L
a)
sr -
a)
c
3:C
N`
c
ca C:
cu a)
c
a
Z
X
CN Q ~ a C.) to U° V o C cUL•~ cc
c0~ p~ U
v i
Fa L ~
r
O~ N o C~ o~ ca~-A
v U NFU) 0- 0 ca
C C
avi cC c~ c~
U
0) cm a W E c
a p to O U
CL
0
p Q 0 E 7 O~
O O O c°
c O
C
O
9+ L
U
C
N
C
C a) co
U
a) - N M U tt to W) a
V W L
Q E u)
O
U
00
U a) O
0
C C O
0c[)
aS
I-
d9 6
LL Ua) H ca
i
O O o° O N O a)
t t 9 00)) 00 CL 0_ t U
0
0
N
w
z
O
O
H
H
w
i
O
0
M
w
Q
a
c
n
ca
cn U
O
O >
O c c
O
N c
o
o
co
Q ' ca
ca
o N
U
c
U)
o ui
V
a) N c a)
O-
O
L
O U
c:
U cop
O U
3
E U c o s
O~wtn
Y/ a) L
m
01
F
o
Ica)
c° ' S E
c3
3 a
r L
X
04 Lo
a) EEo a c a)
a
L
a
O c c C N J
3 p to a)
i
Q z D
c c a) O O C)
L O U
m
Q
N
C O
L
U
E N
N p
V
rp
U~t
Cp4
N c C
3
co
a) m
0
C
D
a)
0)
m
CN O 0
Q
r CD
L
Ern
c
CNm 0-CU
a) E0
O
0
M C LO 4 U a) c p C
3
Q O
C:)
N
B
Q
s N cNn in a N 3 o v°i
U)
c
N
Q
L
0
O a) 0lc to ' 5; E
a)
oV Q • a) a) E 0 a)
N
U) U)
N
co m U)
y O
U 1 m cn oL OC: o U A
u
C
r+
N)
Co g_- O
O) a) O U
U
cn a)
C _
0
c O U)
c Q C
c
D_ ( D 0
C:
C
Y
y
V
Q' E U
U) = 0
j_
V
N
0
O O
ECD
n
W
C
o c 00 0 i Q) O O
w
c r
4)
U
r
C V-
CL V
C6 O
ca
Q L L
N
En Lo
O a) c6 Oc vi
C
d
Q N N N
L
N N
c
N
R
Nv
d O U
N
A
Va) N
O U)
Q U O V a Xa0) U Q LU O c U
yL N W S 0 o
r- L
m
U)
u> o
CL
73 o Q
w o Q~ p co p
r
4-: 0) a U) 3 o S a Un om a U) ca c7 a
L
2o a
c O
c
Ut/)
C d o r a) c
c L
E m0) cc
C
ca
0
Q a) C:
M CL C
fa
u) E
O
O CL CC
O
C)m
a)
V a C O t O
0 C; U N
CD
N c to
4) R a p N p
0
a)
y
N
0 - 0•a L
V j 0 C O a)~ 0
0
vZ ac
co c
E~ sQ~ ais° Cc a)0 Uac)v
Y /
o to
2 W S O _
cn : 3
co - C CL
4
1
ma
a)
E
a ~
v
N a)
CD
a) v C V
t!i
C
v1
N D U co
te a i 0
N° p
Oca °
U)
U)
C oM" 0 L p 0 D 0- 0 p~ cLa
O
L9
m
Lm
d o 030
0) - a N
a) v) -o L N Q' - C
Q
Z a) D U
Q
a °
L a) a o 0 L) Co cap °O o
r
C M
OO N acid
O•
a3
E
N
3: V
fa
L
L CL
O CD
N
p
C ,
p C
ca co
i
L
pw
co : 3
O
O a) - 0
a)
O
N N
X
0
2 a)O
a1 = V - C Q O C O C- 0 - O a) L
a V cv c} a) m- 0 a) SL
c
O D~ N
C O ( n
a)
cPo~ c cn}A,
o rs
Q
S0 E o p m o
o
C i co p 0 Q ca a) d) O c0
3
f+ 3
t.
NV N
Q- a)
Q0-
O O
0)N
ca
r
E U)
a) O
c
c =
0
E
Z •
r+
H U V N
k
p
N p ca c ca U N O C D O 2 N
s Q U
W V
N Q O ( D O a °
D
i
CU
O 0 U)
U C
O N
H
U
C
V U
U) O O
s
ca U N O
CU .
m O EE Qo C a)
p
sE
U A N
N
B
m
O O N
U)
cCL C
ca Co
0
O 0)"_'
M
L-
N E t-
a)
o
0
w 0
0C
Q cn
cnp
C
U
a
0 C- 0 Lo a) O
Q Qcc
T 7 U
cc
0 -
P
N
A 7
a) C
CC A cn C
O Q O O L A p jC)
0
A p-
N ~ s
v
c p
0 a) U)
A°-°
v 0
a) v w N O
o
a m..~:
O cn
Q-° ii.
p O Q O x
ca ca L O
a Uc.~- EE~ s
O
a
s a) a) c
car
O
a
L V c
coca
en
O
0
N
zw
z
O
0
F
C
W
I
o
O
M
w
Q
a
D L
c
m L ui
0 0 0 cc
N 3 a L~
U)
co
m
L
o
C
U 0
m D
3:V
L m
D C
O a) a) c: ca U)
a) C
m
p)
cu
O
O y D 0
0C 0- a)
m
0 C
y v
4--
a)
C
C
m
L
o
0
C
0) m o
N
f
y co C N O a) m to
CL
U)
a)
L N 0 m
U
ca m N
0
QJ
E
N
cm
r- C - O
Q)
cm
C
u~
c a p U a) m D Cm a) P
En
m
L-
m a) M Uy co
O
V
C O
Z3 cm
m
M
a) c
a)
0
a
U) a) Z3 a)
0
CL
m 3 C
M
CCU
N
M
n
o
c:0 a) CQ
N' D 0
CL
Ec 0~ c~
a) o M o 0-
a) Q
o
O ja) m m p O L L m U) • r- 0 Q O
U) N~ a)
0 U)
am m- 0 O a)
U)
C 0 C C) M-0
CL
Q Nl
Q
cN O: 6 c: L a 0 0
a
C Z3
a) o
M C U)
C
L
d
V)
y-
Q y
os
C Q i L
p O~
Q U)
0-
mO
C
Q
U) C
C
U)
w
a) a 3
V Q O
U 0
C D
L7-
U)
N m
0
m
O C C
0 N C
L
CL V p k
W
O C
r m
O~ 4= _" O_ L 70 U
y
Q
C C.)
C
C
O M
Q U~ O
Q a) > U
D
Q
0
a)
U)
L~ ~ NU) 0 ( D 0
O
N O n m C Q C a O N U- U)
0
C O 3
0 m 3 m E
Rf
V
N
T
cn
T
zt~
m L s
M
U) n
U) m a)a
a) a) T C
m
ma
o u) uy a) m
0) 0
m L6 m
T
LQ-) C- 0 m L , n
E
L E a)
R
L
Q
N N C O NS
0 3
0 0
m N
3
a) a)
0) C 3
N U C L
n d Q tJ tom?Q a) O
0 U v Q) M o
m
0 0 p V m
N N o 0 a 3 M m
L
a)
p a~i c cn in U • O Um)
O
O
O
OL.
p
4
U- r- a a a U) U) c~ afl~ w M 0 a D 0 t9 C~
N L
m 0- 0
O
H1
y 0
C a)
C
m
L
a)
C C)
C~
O
v
CD
U a)
co
C
p
C
C
m
N a) j v o
a)
O y C a) Q V1
C.
a)
Z
J ( 1) a) t U
d d d N ~ C) ca
C
C a v m°
am
a U) co
vZ v aCO LO cow0) C
a)
M
m rn
V
C°
fn m O C o ca
OO O
o
V p
W pN O
a) 0 C ~ m
L co
o mo~m C~c0 Q°
9 L
cm
m a
C
cc
D v
Co D a
L ~ 4) cl: o VC
o
ca
w a
m ~
m
C L
a
caco Wa) C w m
CO C
Cc
3
cm 0 C
C co
a) 0- M 0 a)
ea c V~ csi
U0) ca
c°)~ 3 m a) D o a Ea v Nrrcn m o a C~
co
E~ 3 C~ 0a
O a)
ca
tQ O 7 Q 0) C - 0 0 Oa)
W
L
D
a
L
m
0 T~ O N
L • p L.
C
1 CYj COO c O N U C a) X L O N ca m" ' a 4N 3
L
4w
M 4)
L
O N U V
P
C) N s C
L am, C m
3 = 3 a)
O to O E O O C
Z 06 x Q
L C to N U U
p
p
a) m
N
moo W a) o L- ~
0- 0
N
U)
C~ c N O N
a)
0 CV)
N
U ca m M _ C
O ca ~ C M 0 F" a) vi
N
E
0
O
O) ~ w
ca
CU) N
a)
0 s N Q j canU C6 a)
O
N U W
U)
A v= C_
3 co
C N
C O
C
C ca
p N O O p
n
n
m
O C
O W T CCUP 0
S oD
P 0)O P
C
a m C w O
Z- 0- V U V C 0 U UU m V U a) m E a
CCC
j
U
m •
N
C 2 O
m a-
O
a
s o)
H
O
a
O
o
O
a
Ot O Q
m~ a
t
L
m N O
t- ° C co
O m
C9m
M
0
0
0
N
w
z
O
O
U
W
I
w
O
N
M
w
Q
a
c
i
c~ N
m d c -
a L
0 O
N Q)
Co N
c N 4) c0
O
LO
Ldd
Q.
V
yr Q Q)
O
G~
N a CL Q O
0
0 tC 0
N
Q. =
Co 0
p CD c
p c Q)
o 0(
D
c
0Em t!
C0 N C
o
C~
a
co y- ca
c O
aW Lp ' p ca O (
DLac M
M
L
LQ
rQ)
C
o cn 4 O c
co U)
L to c N
U) O)
O Q LD
co
LtC dU U
0
coQ +
0 ce
kL j
W1)
73 a =
M O
a) 0)
O >jr m C
o U) ~co o
N N - 0-
0 M •
V Ln ca c
DO
L
Q
U
E
0 v y
v
N
O c
o L M N p 0 0
0 O a
c~° N
L N 000) N a i. 0
c
C C c
O
N ca
2 N
O
m N s f6 fn
c
3 O
c A U) C O
Co V Z
v CL m
a) c$ ' O
a) U)
L) W
0 3 a) U c L O
a) U) Ln =2 N O 0- 0 N O O m
Co
O 0p
00
L p m v V co O c a) c o o a)
cn
a) O m• c 0
m
O LU t a) co a) U co a) a) E
O
O
i CO
N d N O 0 N cn
vii
C 0 a) a) M30 C1 L CL c 0 0
0
0 c L c c0 s+
L 00 M co a) : 3 CD
0-
C • a)
a)
c0
ca
L
y r-
C C CU Z
Oca
V
U 0 N
S ` 0
a)
p
00 r-
Ca O) fCA
L
C
a)
i c
L
a)
c
p
a) 0 O
N
E co a)O E
L L 0 3 O 00Mu a
d re1 04 ON
c
Q
0 L
V
0
m
N
to
4--
0
O
N j a) i 3 0 a)
n d
7P~ 0-> p.
C;) O 0 c c0 2 a)a O p a
a)~3
3
L CL 0 N
N
to L N U)
E~ 2.
2 16 E Om ' a E~ E c Co -
D m C) O U) 0 0 c
O
Co a) cm 0)
O
O O- O N a) : 3
cn z N C : 3
N
L ' C: CU N E
U)
I
t0cnQ Q
w
V
U
S
L
EE0
L ai`
s0
c a) c Q,
a)~
Y
i
o
C
U 0
Q
cLL`~
O
0
U)
ca
0) E
o
C
0
a) 0
0
to
av
o~i v
a
L a)
U
O
U
L
O
Q
0
a)
a) r -
C a)
P
O
U) : 3 L
O c Co E p a)
C
p U
O
0
a)N~
U
O
Ua)
r E
E
m
cp
m
d-
0 V
C m
Co W LL•° C~
r
sN
voE o a) 0
c
4- m
e
YUou U a) - a) R
N
0
0
c Ra
i
L
c L3 • 0 LC E
CE
V n a)
a) - Lc~
E C
o
U~ C' t
a) t9S~
3c
0
o
0
u
O
C9-= v 0
0 C9-
0 0
0
C7H O
C
C7oU
O
acd
M
0
0
N
W
z
O
0
U
CG
o
w
O
M
M
W
Q
N
N
V
L
O N
N m
c
U)
co Lo
v
O
ca a)
N+ = CDd N co
O O
o a
cv'a ac
Lr)
a)
Qd
V) Le U) N
Q ~ C Q
r V R
L O VE
0 , L)r
O
N
t
oea
Q V C
V N V
N
W v
N `
VOi= viac s C v
4-
p O
v
C
ID d O 0 LL $ cU F- of E 0 c o
C v ca ca
O
N O a) ca o
p
V L N m a U O C p C ca a) a) • C N pto
N
C
R
a) w. C
m E O C
0)
p ca O a) co E E C a) ca O
Co
G~Z
a i a a m o ov m o ° a o cn 0
E N
U) L6
0 0
0Lo
Q 4--
rncCac ° o C C N CL a)
c
o 0 a)S a i 1
U)
4) 0 d -
O
0) p U- 0 a) . Ln ; FU)
D U N a)
D
s O a) O O E a) "
O
0 C9 O c m O- O M
p O c~ - a- p C co N O- ~
p rn
L
O)i cc
U)O C O
E 0
a-
a O
M~
O a) a vr-
C O
to ca
O .c m
C Rf
ca
p C C
c ca ~
O p a)L
ca
O
c ca O
O•~s
C ca - ca
Co~ O~ O
ch
mN
a) a)a) .
QO` C)
N a)
C C V (
a fq
s
p UQ D o U in
0
co
M N
E
L ( n p U
OV
C p` p
r
o o 0
C
E
er a) 0- 0
0
o o O( i c a)
i
a
C a)CL O coo m
7n~ 0 W, CL
Os
o^.
L 0) U) E
ca
g3:
c O C u) .
v
E 040
cu m
fl. a) L`-
a)
ZtA
L' p
O ch~~M V " p
O
U`
O
C Q C am'
Jz: •OL O
O 2 . -0 U) tea OM
N
C
CL3
U c" Q-
CC U O
ca N C
O
a)
E
a)a-
Uoo E
0
cu
co C a)
ca U
N C LL
rn~ cUm d O woo
U N
s 0) 0.-- c ~
a i
O C E - p
N
D ca v> U N ca
C
Z
be
U WO
C N U_ 0 70 a to
o c + g i O
U C C
C Q
a) 7 E
m
N
LL
E E
U 5 fn C L
O
p • y C co
Ov U co p U
E p
LL ui 0)
0
Ev ~ a
W
Q' C
m cu
U C 0 0> - p
3
p 0
Q
Cf
C C U 1
ca
O L s
N
o of
O C U) ca
L)
to
N E
m
N
a) a) . E . V C D N C Up r 0 0` O
E
0 >
i
a) a) C E
U ' E O E
O' C
0- E
O
a) O
U~ L
L ( n p)
u) m 7> U7
C C
p ca
ca co
p O
D - 0 04--
W< 2WMOCa
a)
pQ= V
N
CL U)
m
v
co
a) a)a)~ C a) ONC a) ca
c40IL 3: ca U r N M 0 0~ 0 O i
IL cu m
0
0
N
W
z
z
O
O
U
F-~
PO
W
I
o
w
O
M
W
Q
a
N
V
L
N
Q
L. V) N
m
4)+ a CL Q. z~
tQ 0
CL r
0 D a s
0m sZ~
a . c
mm
t
d LI?
to
Q
s N
1
C L
L Q
M
L E U kCL 0
ooO N ~ L)
0
v,
MN
ca~~
o2N L
O
N
O
O
0
O C
O
CL
C
p
O N
d o
C V
N N
L
C 7
c0O
C
O O C O=O p O m
C
a).~
LO
p 0
O Ecu E
co
ca
a) cm
co 3
N
M w O U
E
a)
CL
co = N 2 N
a) CU COE OL'
R C c
p a a)
N~ L.
Co C
co Co
L _ a) a)
C C > No C O A
E ` ci
O
a) O
s U
Oo co `
4
UN) pa "
to L N
5
N O S
a) N W O= a) a) O s
vZ v
ri N o0 0. o v-a ci0 o m 3 a)~
N ` O U
N
O
O a) Q O O
p 0 D N p O
p N=
0 tl) 0 c0L ~
L p.=O O U F
m U
L N
L
N~N Q O Qca s
3
01 0mN
0 a)
C p
m a a) C~
L
n
E
L o o co
m
co
D O - 0
0 Coa)
co
a) " a
0) L) a) I
a)
a)
a) - o C
V
L
d a) co-0 NO L
O
CO
aC L O a) = fn t
L a)m
U c 7 O. N O
Om
L Q. C O> O O fo O
pto O 0)
y t C a) y Z
V
O . L
N '
a N
CL a) O
s = O
jU =O
cC E_ fn y0,
O U = x a)
co
L • U U a) _
O ' Op = t
U O >
M G) 3 O 0 co
N a C
N O = a) - O c
co - a a) w m
L' 0 L
CL
pc+ jMCO""
V N L
M
p) = p ' O
E o p.=' O a) O
a) W O._
m O a) . c co a) O
U
L
O
C L
o O
a) '
pco
D
M
U
co
a) o
c a) U)
ca3
cn U) CL r-
a) N0 O
0)
00 : 3
Z m V V k
N W N A C 0 OA co a) con
Q
O O L
U -
a) _ a)
s p co
CO Cl) V V
c__ E ' O
C ca Z! '
U)
U - 0 CO p0 a O( D a'O N
N O
NCD
pco0s
L
0 co0
0 0 ( D
S= p"cUa)
c
aCo
O_
U=a)
0 a) V-
C Q
0NC
0
U
O s L
rn
a) 0 a) O
0)
X- C
D a)a)
N c: c Co
N Co
o C
O
a) a)
C vi~N U
O ( o
s j a) a) p)
c
s O' co s s j
O O
CL Co
7
A
L)
N
0
C3 co co
UjQ
LL 0) :
5
cn ( 1) L) s
1)
a) L
r.
3
a) cn co O 0
0
U . 0 -
C CD U)
a) - 002 a a U
IL co ci
O
0
N
W
U
z
5
0
0
H
U
ca
X
W
i
w
M
W
Q
a
N
N
V
L
O N
N
vN
CL m W
a) co u~
U
NC
na°-
CL : 3
CL
N Cl) 0
O ( Cr cn
pU) 0
d i
r
C1 - O
C
cyy~ cB
U S NN
to lQ C 0 4
y
L
Q
t N
O
C
C i2
CL
wQ y
L
O
t
VO
Rf U ~
C v
Q ~ CV
V N V
N
0 v
N L
0 U)
N c
U 2)
Co O
O
0. 2 L c
o
U
O O
CA . C _
U co
to
O
C U O Oo a;
CL L C2 ca m s
N
C
Co
CO
oO -
N O
co
p t
O '
U
O_
X 0
0) Co - 0
C CA C
ca
O
U) C
c O
O O
R N
yj •
N O
O
R)
U O X
N 7
N O CU
O ( u ( a ° N
M c
D) - cn
v Z v
O
a
V)
CL C A a) o- o U m
In 7 O
0) L0
p 0
a Coa) CO
a) - 0
co a) M U) a)
M C • O N N O
a)
0 cu
CL
4) cu -
L M U UO) O L
U) U)
0) O d
Z3 L O
d O O
4)
U
0 w ccD 4-- O
i p C^
L B
C U O
U)
A-
v
n L t y ' CO O 7 q N 7 CO
LC N
O U U
L. 4)
L
i 0
C
U
4)
s
E
O U
o c
C 0- 0
O 015 c
0 O C ' tn O A L ca0
E
C 3
E (
0 co C U o- 0 - O j p C p>
to
a)
a) - O s
Nc to o r D c~a c°
0
0 ~V- o ca
U
N
4) r CO
U a) vi
p
O
U) c
m
0E
E m
0)
U)
C N
s ° O c
U0
If
O
1+
d
ZU1
o
Q'
E
o
0 - CU
Cl U c L 0 0 0 0
Vo
s Cl
a)
co
7 P P Q ( 7 C N U U U
E t
U
C
CL 2:
U)
co
C
ac cai rna)~ mc rL.+ - 3: o
3
C
C
U
L
i~+ +3
V N N
T- N O C C 0) C
E C C C O
CD L o M L E
Z
0 O U V 6 k
U 0 0 L
U'
t~ U L S L' m CL -_a C1 N oLO N O
U
SQQ LLj O U
j (
D Q Q , > L) C C
c
N
N t) U N 01-6
0 3 N~ f0 N Co
L-
O
0 U)
O 0
O
U O\ j~y
O co O T
C
G
0
D
L
to C fB U U) C 7 U
0-
p o 2 N~ 7 N C E N U
O
p
i f0N U
r~+ 'O A c O L
O p L C O
U
O
O
a) 0
Q
c G Loo V LE N a= 2 CLU~ U E L c
C
U
m
C
0)
oN E 0 U C C i
M E
a)
3
V O N CL
D ~ ' O m
N m O N
v
L U
0
N N
s U t U U U
n 0 ( n 3:::cs n
U
U
u)
00
a cd Q d
M
0
0
0
N
w
U
Q
z_
O
O
U
X
w
w
O
O
M
w
Q
a
N
s`
O t~
to m
CL m a; v,Ln
v mm~
m CL : o
Rt m to 0
oCo
CL r
Om as
oN
0
CL c
a iM a
Q 4) Q.
Q
S N
tm c t
CL
L U
W
N O
trA
ea
Q ' c
v U)
rn
O u >
N L-
O m
C
c 2 L
U)
m 0 cc
tin, Co 0 : v
c i ~ CL p~ CL
10
n
0~m'a a i n 0 Z c ap
a
o v
0L.
V m c ca a)
U) c Y y E c~o E
a c n o
oa-
a) n v o m EvZ v E 3 c u
0 60 co
t/) W = o`n o api 00
c f° c~ 0 m o v O ao
O N U- U co n rL c0 c, F O c ( c0
y
c C. s.
N m y
d O m
c : 3 . 7-- / O~m 0 N V
L: U) to
m e
ca O
O
O N U= 0) t 0 c L
c E N c • c O ' C N O
O O
U m
c m
L
m
o
o N
Co
c
a c u
M~ m
ca
0 o O N X CL c
O a) z 0
Z= a) co
U) MC
i
E
O_ cC
c
cD
p
M
O
a,~ o 0)
O
L c O L`0
CU 0)
0) O.co C
c C
O
s mV
m
c o m O D
0) a)
Co
y) U)
N C m m E Nm O i
0
t0
0V
0
r N c~ p " r
O E
U 2r O O a) . 2
O 0 Z L c m O N N
IL m
F+ N
c 0 v 0 umi
0 c
C- O
o
O m 0v- 0-0
O
0 Em
3:D C
r
V O ri M ( 0
Q
m N occ
v,
E
Ocu N c a) N m m c c
O c
m m o N O U O D u) m
e
N U) • U m E m O N m- U
O
cu
rn O 0 L
Z Um' UUNL m pO c
0 O N
m
N ~ L0 aN) m E E
N
3 p Q
CL
c Q
3
m U U 0 c N O
M
N
U M S C
a)
O~
Co
p O O M U- m c N
O
E
O
0 O O 0 U s O_ 4-- m cU' W
a D c
o
E4 m~ Um
c U- 0-0M ~ o0cam NCf) mm a
E
D
c cc w
N
a) 0
LL
v) c 0
D CO ~
c c
N a C7
p N
csvcc
o C.)
Cl)
V V
Q- 0
a) - 0
L p
C
CO) CL.-
O
X
1)
m m
Q
c
1)
N U)
v
U
U)
N
U m m p m
p O2
V m O E
Q) mO
a oo
O
a
coa) N o .
Ov a.~ o ~ O 3:° a
O
s d
M
O
0
0
N
W
z
pz
a:
O
O
E~
H
t4
W
I
o
w
O
M
W
Q
a
N
N
V
L
O N
N
v
U)
U)
fl
0 co LO
VL
N -
B
Q Z
N
Q
Co
C O
O
Om sz~
0 CL L
0'
ca - 0
C
co
N ~i vN
M C LO C!
t.
m
CV Co
Q d d ~ Q
Q OR
L UE C)
k
0 V~Wy
tN ~
c~U)
V ~
L V
CQ
V ~ V
N
N L'
O
d
N N a) c
c
C
d O 0 CU0 N C 0 E a) s m p~ co
0
cca) c c
N ca
a~ U
r-
m, cc
c a)
0 O C
L2: 0
a)
s
Ri , o 0 ca c~ U c0a) Uc 0C C ooN~ aa)ic' a) Ec
rV ns C 0
p
C 0 O
w> E " O
0 O C O
L
X
a) O
C
O
O)
U) ' c a)
T
O 0 O p
C>, OU
c
0
N
G>
M ~
0
0d
C
m
co
a~
N Lc 0
m
LL
N
s- 0
C 0- 0
0-
0 O C
0
r- 0
O 0 a)~~, CD
V Z a
Q OO
cO H Q pO O
0 ( n 2 j 0 0 s N N, E s
a) 0)a) 0V) 1f! 7 a)
CO U
0
C
0
O Q 0
co
N
co
Co
O co U
U
0
co
s a
N N
O
O
t
U
0
U CoC co
s
7
O
F- O a) co
c
0
nes N
nULC9 y j
4 U)U) - cu a)
Ni
E _
ue-
co
caO) •
c v.
L
d1 L
0a)
CC
s
CD
C
N
s c
O U
O s s O
N
co C
Q
a) O. ~
o F2
D
a) 0 c O c
0)
L
c U
M
F-a) co a)
C C
w p O O O O
0a) L- s
C
Co y Z
V N
O 0 0O C
m 0 .
C tOAO
O X 0 O
j
Y
co E
O= O p
E2 C_
0) U)
O c
U)
V a) - c C0 0
Q Lo
a)
a v
d w~, er~a) OC
Q
c
m3
a
0 ( D0
c OU cn C~ c
c i C` 0
0 0 0
E'
0c a) cc"n~C~ c
L C
E
Q co a)
FO- N
r
a) .
r O 0 m 0
y
O N
0
O
a)
a) DU C
a)
L
U N N O U s
N O
r
o
Q)
N U 0U
C
O 4N . r
N E E E
O O O
s a) O c
O
L o s
co U
O v c- Q L-
s
w
Z r
4~
M
0
k
3 QcuW
a) cn
c c
p X
U
s E E c
c
c` c U 0 0
s C 0-
y
Q c co
Q .
c c c E
O a) 2~
ca coc "
O O L> c U
c c
L
N co y a?
c
7
d
V U
U) O
p
U
a) s Op
U cc
N= 0 0U X O>
0
U:n o c0- 0 > Ud
O O
C)
N p
O 3N
yN+
0
O, pn Co f0N L
LE -c
i
O
O o
ON C LL
coEc
y+
0 O C 0 i3
0~ 0
a)
N
0
C
U
ao co
N
O
0 a) a)~
0
0 ' 0 - =
0
O
A
coCD
U co O~ a)
U • V
c
U
a) oss a)~ v)ca~ caco a) ) ccN~ v a)°) X>m~ 3()) a~
a S 0 H. S3 00 c 0La,- 0~CL a- : o
ci a co
M
O
n
0
N
W
u
z_
0
O
N
t~
W
I
w
O
M
W
Q
a.
N
m
U
7
O N
Q44)) C, 3Lo
v ca
CL r-L : J
R Qy
D o
o
O m 03
N ro
a
1)
V C N NU)
Q
R Lo Q
cj)L t N L
CL4) L E U
X
O
0 '
i U C/)
O
H
m
RN
cC V m
i ' C v
Q v C
v N v
N
O 4)
N L
d
N
0- 0
C
p
fff
U
O
cn
N
L
U) c O Co
O
U
r
O
7 E cu
C V a) cli
d caL N O
L fa o a) C O?r C
N O
L
R C U L
w m N
3
c r
0
C C O cn c
O
M
E
r- U)
3
0
a
co E
0)
Z' S U) D W cu
Z d a. F
ac°i p v Q-~ c
a o`O U
Q
S
m
X L
s N
L
4? ESri
0
im N a
A C
c j
O O d do mCD m
4)
Q s N
cB D
0
U)
o a) c O co
V C9
4)L. R
p
L
O a
L
p
O
O
H
5
O U N O
U
L
a)
C c NLO 0) a) Z ca c
C C V a) N V= 0 N O C N O c 5 a) p 5 p
R U C c O
N=
L O N
N U) - 0 T C Q c O N O
a ) c Q) c E o~ 0E 0 0 o 5M Q ot0 R O
O P O E a) c0 N
2- 2) co
C
p N N
a)
p CL
a
O
L
V N N i Q. O O C C
U i L
CL
L L
N N
N
m N N O
cv o 0UU rjU pa a)~
0
3 3 oo
ca
c
o 0 CD N U
Z N
c
r U U cV W co ca P a Z Co
rn
m c CM =
C: M
a)
tD ( q
Q +
U
N~ rj a) a) a)
co
a)-
Co
C 0 N
C
C C
D
owL-
C
a)
d
v
N O
s
N
N m
a) co
m
0
a
0) cn
P
C
V
000Uo U
a L
ca0 U L
N4-
a) C coo c c cc X a C3 Q)-Q D
c
G) 40-
O C o
M
Oa EC
L ( B
O
R a) a) 0 V N cu a)
p o
s U
O
s
c
0
O
L c
cu
r N0
a c O
C
0
N 7 N
D
j " O U) cr,
O ace O. c G O Qs L N O p c 0
O
0v n Oor-) 0 a m 0
M
0
0
N
zw
Az
P4
O
O
u
I~-I
X
W
I
w
O
o~
W
Q
a
N
m
V
L
O N)
N
v
Q
L N m UCQ
d+ d
Q Z3
y o
0 0
S O 0 2Z cm
a 0
a
4)
v
U)
Q
Q)
Q
scv Co
Q 4)
C L
L C
oQ
4) m
L
0
0
C~CL N'~
VCOWO L
N O
N
t
V
V m
L = U
Q Cv
y 4)
N
0 4) 4)
N L
3 4) 0 6 p O
c
Q~ O
C U
Y O
fu
L Cc
C
Co J)
ca a)
C cam
3
0
c O LL
04- U~o 0
Co >
U
C L) m
N
0- 0
m a)
aU' cn O s
O
L
a ( 0 COc c -
cu
O c
a) a)
LV C N
cu
Co Q_
a
0) cB a) N p
4--
N C~
co ca ' V N` N
N U
O C
E
ea
lQ L
O
0 C
Co
a) a)
U-
C
D N O
m N
cn
E
7 m U C L 0 0
p L 0 m N v ~
C
X
No. c
in t6
1
p
to
n v-U
4-
oC c
cc Q0
r-
o
m
0
t U
0
Cocn v
N ea H
ca
c~
C) c C
a
v, ca
Uai
a) CT a M o ca
s C~ '
C Coc0
0 0
L
0 O a~Z co
O a)
o f
cn
m
c 1
O m
s c 0 0)
o ff O
m
U)
e
ca
CD Q 0) Q
Q O 04- p~ U
L.
i c0 z a)0 O a) cn
m fl' - 0 CC cB
0
4"
0
cr3 CO
E Q)
CL
O)
U) a
ca co
c
0)
co o D
Ca) a)
5D OLT 0
0) - C Co ( D CO = 0 D Cc
C t0N O 15 co O N p N
a) O Q a)0 E C m U)
C) C C a)V ~
LZ
C 3 a)
o co o u EQ : 3 o o o 0 ov > : 3
o c
ai a~i o Qom 0 a-
CLa
o oNer 0) QL
C)
0
o
c
0 w
U)
c
0 ~ sUS
a 3 L
U
a) oR3 4) C) a 0 0- co o rna cOi. 0 0 O M co C ca8 c
co s os - M3
3
0 N N r L
PQ)
c0 p
s• N
U)ccu -
cu
sc
M U)
sELL a) c
u
s
4)^ ca c 0cn
scc>~: 3
N
sa)
Z UMW N A•~ OLL coA a) -
0s
U
c AQ. c
L-
N
A
cp tQOV•k
rr
C
L
Qa)
c
C
0
L
C ( 1) a) a) c
7
Q
ca C p 0" 0 N
ue= 0O
C
0N v V O
c cs > M p Q s 0
0 co U• 0 p
U U E U= ' O (
n
co E U Q a C U p p
4-
a)
D co a) 0 U~ CO C N N cn CO 0 N Ora N O
D O a)
0
o " 0U U a)
to c
0) s
O O
Cl
L
w
s
U O U
L
U O
tL
U a) " c
C
U c0 0 ca M U U
a3 L U>
O N " O 0 cN
C
U w co ~ O M M C s a) O)M
N ' C
C
ns
O c
O m
0 " O
ca
0
0
L
a) ~ N O s
D O W w $ U)
0O
D E C
0 0U a) m m" >,' C
Q D a s U) s L
O w
o
4-: Cb s
0
0
N
zw
d
z
0
O
U
as
w
I
w
O
0
v
W
Q
a
N
v
L
O U)
4)Q 4
V Q)
a+ aCL moo
d H
Q O
0 Cr
CL
U) E O
a
a?
M
v
cW
2
M cU
y C
Q
ea
m
cn CL
V) A SN Cj)
C
a) c aL L
a °
s..
R
Q)
E U x
0 VC/)Wy
U)
ea
V
L •C V
Q EV
V N V
U)
O+ ~
L L
O N!
U) a to
C G) O U Q) ~ N C N 0
3
0
m
v LA C
f° 0 E~ o
lC N
m
C
U)
q
c -
0- 0
c
0
O) N
0 D
s Q CO
G~ z
Oa 0
Q
0-- o o a)
N Z,
U) oLO c rnN c c 0 0a) cn
N N 10-0 o o c~ cu
o O o
d oas o mC7s 0 Cc
L.
L~ CD
cn
L oaf ~ oo
C m
c
E cu o N
Q-
a)
o
N ~
cn
U)
o
Z: CU a) CL r
L
c
a
m
oc E
C13 a)
a) t! s
0
c a c c
c
c
4)
Rt d
Q)o
P t
ca cCL
O ( 1f j O
1)
U N O a) co co 0
U N
C
o
0 ( 1) cc
L) U) C ca
N
c E
A
3
V N N
P N
L-
3
c Co ' 0
O
a
C)-
O co c
C c Q)
CU
s
m o) o
Z H
U) U V crj
U
U V CV W
CL
O
O
C N - O
O - Q
to
N
a N
0 a N
O O O
N
U N
N
w
C
c
c c0
0
Q)
C:
U
y
L
N O Oc i
V U O 3 : 3
O O o u c 0 O N
3 CL
O
0
U) - CU O O O 0
O 0 c
O
U
G c0 N`
0 '
Q s..
U
m
O ' c V O
a
N
aH E
cO N
3
6
CU
a C
CUl
ocnc
2) ~
s E
O)
2
C.)
LL cu Q. 7 i . 9 0)c
c
s.. ~ c
o
L Q)
a
2
0 Z)
E 0)
a) cc cc t ali
E c
M
O
0
0
N
w
z
z
O
O
U
E-+
w
w
O
w
a
0 U)
m m E
m : 3 c c
c
C. U)
M 3
c6 O
c I
L
i o CD
Q
f,
OE
cc
O p ca
O Q p c c 0 V
N
N
R
t O
M
U
O O
U
O
c
t6 N
CO 0 a) 0)
Q)
to O Q
Q
fl G>
0) r_
p p c
L
En
O CLL-
CL x
CD
C~c _ C
O U N N a) N O
d N SL
i
0 c0
c -
M - O
c
C
ON
N OJ O L
c
O
Q C
2
Q
m M L N LO E U
c 00 4) N. a
O
Q
N
U) O
O
p p O cn O M p
to
4) CV U)
Q o
co ° c)
N
c co c
U
CD
cc
N
c O
N W
W
L a)
Cu -
p p
Q
m L O
0 ~ m >
c
co
Q`
Y/
L U U 0 U Q L Oi! C
0
Q
M
CU
4? N
i
C
W
0) c-
pL
a)
W
p cn N N
O cn U
O
m
C/)
E 0)
O O
C Q
U
O
a L
O V
C
L
0-- N
L
0) O
i
O U) "
O
C
O N O
U E
U O
0)
O
co
to c
O ai
3
M
Z
D
m
03c
0)
c
G C r O CV O to c) CO M 07 V N E2 c c ' U Ln O
N C M
C
CO
O O
CO
Fu
U L c CO O-0
7
O c0
0
c
O O c
Q
tC Q
4C M
CV 3 q) CV O O N O
N C'4 o)
Q 0) N c
V
CL
V
Q
U O O
Q
O
N O
E N
N
0
V O
c
L _ Q O
0
U cn N
U)
v
N)
O
C9
M O p
C~
p
c
O
a 0~
L
O
d W m
O
M d
M m o
U) L -- o Q
O N o
CL Q Q-
0 L
a)
y
r
N_
7 7 rnLL CQ
c wM
ca N CDN
4)
C
ca c
rn 0- 0 LS
c c a°
O
L
CD
v a) m Q
a)~c i~ccNUc
aiD c
c ! P0 0
a
a) 0 cn
0
0 w
L
X"
n
o O ` 0 o
c
L C C
3t
C1
o
CO)
1)
iO c cnO a) NO to c
0)
r
y a v co
C
Ca
c ° c
O d i c 3: cn w O O O Q N
w
c c"
Ljj 7 N V G1 L a)
a
c
Q.
co
O
co
Q
0
01 tnQN N
0 0 OO~
Q O ca •po
Qc8 U LO c
CA= d Qc
Y/ O
U) E
Q L L L Q
y
a)
d
W
L 0 C
c
c to c O V O c O
L L
2L> O
Co
Co
O>
CL Z CO r- a)
3
0 Co 0) a)
C
0D
CO
c N
w - a) U)
L
O w O N s c QL A N 0 0 0
U
C) t
ca O O L c S O c
N
N
0 U) N - o
O co c w c
E 0
a)
CL ° cM C C
r y~+, d. co H
N U) W
N
c a~
O
2 v
cn
0 m 2 co . Co o O L
d v
cow
tL
a 0
C E v O
C~0
ao
c cCc M 0 20 ai
a)
UU)
N
cc
N
Q
Q N O) . c CO CL q)
N
CL
O
0
4. 0 C14
7 Q
N
c
ca
c
O
c m E a N c -O
U
r+
Rf
Z
t V O cu O Q
O
L) - O
C 0
OQ
O- cco O
m
c0 U c 0
0 N
N
n N
V U)
C c
C:
p O c O O a' C
CO
N Q H a)O= W N LO
c
O tLi)
0 E v w E
c
o o N M~
0
2
CL
a v a cC V
M
O O
H
O
c
c o
O- 0
H e
O
f- wE C:
L - p p) N
o
N c
c- Er- a)
c - o
N j M w 0 L
Cn $
p o
i
s D
j C O- p-0 c O
C fC CC j t0 ( ea 3: V
t
O) O ~ O ~ ~ N ' cn ) U O
O
t9
O
t7
Q-) O O o
C7 U
O m
C7
O N
7
O p 0
5 2 0 o • c 6. 2 O N
EQ 3 C a z a. 7o N 3 . c QN- a a
M
0
0
O
N
W
z
z
O
O
W
I
w
O
N
W
Q
a
o c
U)
R a
O
a)
y U
L
V
d U)
V O)
C
C a
E
O
C- G r..c
ca a 0
p
C
O Co a) 0
3
U)
CL
Fu o
y v E 0 cn c
2) a) to
ch c aioo
a)
N
O~ U) CD C:
T' N C3 L M ' O a) tII
C d
c
U) R
ns
a)
C
C O U)
M
tI,-
3 U) ca
c 0
4+= N
a) 0
U Q m
L
L
Q C
O
c a
c 0 C
c
R m e a)
c
o
a~ R
CL
co ca c
ca
p oa)
0)
L
CU m
t4 0 Co U) Cl) - 0 a)
LL U)
0
C pO
C
cV
N
c
L ca
L
D
70
L.
U
U O
6 U)
0
R C D N a} 3
c d L 0 0 C
0
U D
r~' R 0t a C o
cn 0- . 0
L
L OCl) Q D O
a
a) c C
U
N R
7
a)
LL
C v R
O O
C
ry
Q
v a) o
Iz O N
a)
U C
Q~•L U Q
4-
cu 0 o
L
J a
1) Ma p
C.)
O0
to 0 c
c L c
O
C
O
ca M 13) u 1)
U) O) O O_0 O
U
C/) C d
Q QO
L
C t
y '
c ca ca
c
U ( 1)
D- 0
d
3
co C U)
3 r
a) Q
C
t/1 V
cc
m
r
co n
ao
N Co Q cc co O ca d d to
o
O
4-
N
J O
N O a) Q N a) r N
N
OF N
Ca
m t'
d
M
N O_
u)
L
V 'C U N U ca O
V c O E A L) O a R V N
Z3
Q G~N
N to
c c
R O _O
R Q . a
O a)
V
v vi N
O
a
O O
a
U)
a
a) O
a
a
co
L R O
C9 a t ( L
C
w
O
a
O C 7 C
U as c7 U) a)
O
a
a)
o ca
L
a
y 0 d
4-
s c 0 c L
ca
v ic
W O
Lo
c?c o
3: a
co
ca
0.>.~~ aci
E° oN v
o~ mo~f° L Ca)
U s o
2 a) C~0- 6
aC- E
E
a-
O ~y=~
a- P ( a
N CU
o
L
O r
a) 7
0 a) O L to
U a
U) O L D
U)
0 CL
V 3
y
R L
a a
U a)
cca °
0
0
N oU) 0
co a) cy= 0
U) o L X
La O
o
0
w~
U)ca
c
m
yZv m Co
0
N
Emoo. a)
0) a-- v
0
V L
ci N
p
aU
aLU
o
cU
o ac~ a U L~ faa)~ U)
0
c
0 N
a)
C
O O
cn
N0
N U) - 0 0
cu 2oLoo
a- - Ca) ° Z aH
y O G1
L O C U N c a Q _ E O V O -
C'
L d
Q
a)
0- 0 O
Co
p O M U O
M
0
L ° N U ca
V G>
L. co co
o
U C c
a
co fa
o
L C
L
o
a
U) a) L
La)
o
co
C ca c
i U
a) O
a) O
O C R Ve t C
O D - Fn
0
C Q
U,> O N c00 c~+; N
W
a~
L N a) fa °
C o c P o ns
o E 3 oo°s oOCVico Na>,00 a) U 1) C
p V N
r
a) N N c
0
ca " O O N a) NL.
CV) oc"a v N CU~a aoYoc -
C 0
c
0a
Q
C\j
D c c v
c ~ Q 0 a
0
Zr U
N
0
N N
CU c O Om
a) Q
Q_
0
N
o
v a)E
ca a) 0
cN Qm cI) L cm U) E N
L a-
L Cm cn c
G> 0 U'°) Q) U) cc o°~ cUns~ 3 ns~} a~ E2 Qv
7
a
D C
C Aa)
s E
aC m. E~~a)
U N
N M O aa)L
ca E ca 0
7
c-
m cm U)
0-
M a) N
a) - 0 CL
a) O c- 0 tn a)
N
0
0 Q O a) wC
p M
N
V U V a)
c °
V
3
4) c a)
o
A
0
Co 0
2
A 0
7
O S ` U O O a) N O ca 0 O
U) p Q 00
X si ca ) O
ca
CL H a R a S U a m$ a u.. a U C E 2~: a C N
M
O
0
N
w
u
Z
W
O
O
H
U
GA
X
w
i
w
O
M
w
Q
a
N
d
V
L
H
vi
Q V
a,
m a
mo
Q
1, . w
O U)
L
CL r C)
0
c
0
o
a c)
C1 N 0
s
taQ m o a
2 m
L
0.
E
1-
G~
Q~ V o
O
en
L-
0=
U
L)
cn
c~
yam=
d = v
L.
V tQ
Q N 0)
V
W N W
0
N 0 N
a)
D
aL
o c Q-
c0
U)
cn cn >
a)
c
0)
c
E
p
O
O C
CO 0O O
v
a)
a a) cs
0 Y a
c
c0
N V
CO
C
a) 0
a c
a i - o
LL
U) c a) .
U) 0 -
a
c
a) a)
NNeQ eC C 0 0 ~a E v
c6a) co
a i 00
CL I
OL. ~
0. 52 N ui0)
L
Nd 0 0 p~ C-0 0 O
C: co
N c
CO
O
N
C-
O
Z N iQ 0_ a) a Q
c = c0c a)
N
O O C-0 s E 0
V
y cri ~
O
a
V
n
c-0
a i
w- 0 M N
0)) c
0 ~
c
0 C
O)
0 cn a)
a)
N
E w C
o c E N
rn
o w N
U cc0.U) o LLQo
Co om..c
c~uo D 0)
E!Gi(j 0a
CL
Nol
0
D)~
CC
CLoo a) U) a
E
a`) oU
a)
N ~ u) c
0 <
C o
C - c
a)
N
3
o
a cx-
E
cu
o~ odo
C
co
Aa - <U
E
c o
U)
E
04--
O c eo u c. 0 Cl) a) C airaa E a > aV o a) m r--0 C c a)
r It y a)
U
a
a) c cca a)O E )
ca Q0 a) a)
c
E° L
tea. v
X00
a) ° U)
0 cu a)c E cu a)
m
a) E o
c
o
o
N
Orjco Na N va
co ~-
0N Cc Q.0 o" W mNa Q- LU c 0
0O
L L
V N
e-
0
N
a)
OO)a) COm sC O to
46
cn O
o.-
L-a O
0
H- La) 0
C a)a)c
ca 2 U Ua
UN
a) U) „ r
N d7
a)CO
M4- > a) C
r .c
cc c
L c
aiF'
c c O)~ E
ca
O
w•
H O mm Oa) E° -
a 0 0 c c'- 00 Cl
0o
Z
s
U c m ~ o~ aciM ~ c"u ( 1)
0 u)
E r
c
c~a ~ f
by U)i p a) s L E E0 cano w rn~~ ° a)a
0 o° M cEa°a~'i co 2c ocm m~
0
a
Q W
5 0~O a) U O j 0 M N i)
c
co C vE ~
cc c 0 E ~ o
U
a
CO) a rn°)2 0
N CU
0
0 c
a) 0 a) cni
a)
oa
c ~
V a)
v F~ O cU CL
C - 0
o v cuC7~
CL
m E a
v Co ma a)
i
a0
O
m
a
6)
N
a) 2c.().LOa)
of mU
a
a) c 0
a)
0) a)
0
c0
a) ComI-- O s00Af0
o) m m c a ca a i- m CU U) a Q
0
0
N
w
z
z_
0
0
U
W
i
o
w
O
w
Q
a
N
V
L
N U)
H
Q V
d
m
Qa CL
O m to
O
r
0)S a
O a) to
crs co
a. L to t U
CO a to ~ u
C
L
L
G
UL.
O . y o
a = N
C
C
t
M a
fn ~
U
4)V y
L
0 V a) M ca
fo 7 d
0 to Q O co c
CD 1)sv, to L-
C
O
N tr-
0 Q ca ca 0
0 - C 0
a u C ( D ca M
O~
O O Z - 0 CU 8 °O s a) m ca
n
a) QN tT o
a)
s crs o
a t3
a'
L
c N c
O
cn rn
c
c C° o 0Co a) o ~
c
c 3 ca L
3 o
v~N a a) cc C N 0!' ECD°o a)ca 00 CA
Z V
a
i V O s c°O N N v N ii
A
V L
a)
p Uc
O E u i
O V
Q a)
L- to LL L U
c
O LOp O0
coca
a)
O0 O m ftf$- Q
3 - 0 A p U
N1 O
r- cu
o Ea>
L tea
Q
Qm
a)
CO
O co
i- p oc a
ca 11 C
v
Q~ a
0
V
L Df L M co
L
0O ` c
p w O
O
U
Co C
X
0
0 c4
E
t2
C 0 y
C m
O
N
N
X V N s
Q O 0 c
0
m e C a)
p i Q0 E
N C C
U
V p O U c U cc tL M 0) U O a c c
wav es°Q O~~
O o oa) E o~ CD(D a~° a)
4,-3 0 co a) aa) w 4) M c
0. 0
csaw000 a> ccc0
L- 0O UNP
CL U)
O C
0
Ec Ewc m
m : 3( D
3 3 aNiVri a)s x O 0 o m N a~ ~ cn
c c~U
CD O
Rj H
w+ U N O O +
r
C O `
p
3
N c
a)
c CL U)
o
N
N O L 0
c o 7
Z
p
0) E
U
c
O
E cmy
V C
Cs s
cc E
E
N M A caa)
Na ~ 0
s
L
0cc
s c Ua> ON N O p
a)
U
n. Oa)
a ~ p to rn c W
a) OO
v-. U)
o
N s -
D Co
C) C c
O O r c
7
Co C N t7 ~ L-0 Q c
O W
ty c t7 C.
O c m
4T C X s
O a) cnr
U a
r
U
o
c
o
o
oN c
do
r
A
cacaw
oU
r
V 0-
V
a) E V
a)
O
u)
M V a)Q) ' CU - Fu V
to :_..
r
cl)
cc
6 Til
V O
CL
2 : 3
IL H U CL Ha) d S 2 m N QCDa° H co c_°at a H 0. ch0
0
0
N
W
z
O
H
X
W
I
O
W
a
N
L
O
N N
1) O
U
N
CL (
OjN
c~a
N
c CL Q
N DE
O d R
a~
0
O a c"i
V t4 C OC
L U
Q
N d N
L EG~
Q L
0=o N
c 0
C v
Q N UV
vj N
O L cp - 0
to d
O N cg a)
c
c a) a5
Cl)
ca
N C
41 O
o
L
ca 0 0
E
U)
O O
U°
C CO
cc Ec
U) n 2
c
v
V
ca 0
s '
L
ca O
CD
N Q
Co : 3
s
U
0 0 fa
O
fa Co O
R= C c vca ' c
a C ncn
N J a) Z
a)
CL L)
C: - 0
c
v 3
er
a `o of o Ofa E
L-
Co cQ :
3
a a) Q
t ~RS
Q)
4) Z a) 4
ca O
Q a)
a)
3: Co
ca o) c cca
n ca O c m
O O
i
W
O
00•
L
0.~ 0 ca
0)
O
0 C
U
V O O N
a
C ( D 0_
mfA
V-0 E L- cc C:
N O L, O° s o CL Q
c
O 0 a) a) O ca L O U O O
L C)L m co
E
CL
LOO. C 0 2N U CU c a) Qa)
O tsi) C OO 0
3
Co a)a
0 cC c ca
N
o E r a)
c4) v)
Us
o
0 ° c s
rno a) 5°-
d
lu
r 0
a)
a
w"a
C
0O m
CL
a) E _ a N 3 s >
is n
CL O o o L N m cs
c
D a) M
c c
i- p O
O
C~ cV
Doc 0°°-' a) ca a
3
P
0UCo U~ c" m
CUN 4- 0 E
w a)
0
3 c0 w
h
a
0 r- a
Dso0 0 U) ~ c°. cM°Ns
c
ca O
4) 04)o
s
N O '
co
Oca C°
C r-
a ( a 0 N O- L
a
c m OF N
N O O CU) a) cn p j U vi N0
a)
c
V ON
c a
c : 2 rt , C o
O 0
c N ca
O
E-
C
at) c
U O
c0
r
c c
U
P 0 s ao
r
c
3
N
U) d7 c 0 @
r
p
fl N C N
U
oL) v
O
L) a) v
o
0 v C( a° v
O
U c? T
fa
u UL~ NEu)
f° O
i
a) a)
2C O c C) O 0 U O
0
s C
C
0O c
ca
visaO L U a t- ~ ca cL a H Fn a o a L
L
aF--C Z 0
ca
a H. o c caU
M
0
0
N
W
z
0
0
U
ca
w
I
o
o
0
10
W
Q
a
H
m
V
L
to
m
R H
CL
4 (J)
c CL CL
Q)V 0 N t~i
O30 av
0
G1 ~ ' G c~i
V ~ ~
CO
Q L N s U
V
d a)
L
M
C4)
O N
p = 0
C t
to - 0
N
C V
L d
Q N V
V N
O
11
N 0
U)
0)
U cn
ca
a) C
CA a)
a) : 3
O N
0 C
w fB U) O
LL
w0_- O Cj
V C ' C U) O c O
D U 0 ' i O O
O ca N a)
O E
U O U
Lr
V
R a
ca
a
a)
ic20 cu
cm s
C•..
4--
N
a)
m 0 L
c") a)
E CL
X00
cE
0 U) CU
cyas
0)
H d a i C O
0) tL L O O u-
E LL
Z V
co c
O U
O A Oro
U)
cav°i C C
0
C
a) 2 ns
a) O a U U C . s. L 2 a) 0 a)
N O U
4)
0 O~ C
N`= a) s 0sCo N s
tli O
10 C cU caa U)
i
V
as
Q O
C
0 0 cu
d M Q)
3 U C
C U
O N
a) p
U C
Co O f0 U) 0
C a)~
a
O c V C V V ca °
O N
O C
U co C O
M
N
O ca5
a)
O
O
U
O M O f0 C co
N
M CO
o a~ p.
3
ads
O
Q0 c
U
m n
0
CO
a)
ac ° co
CD
c°
o
U
ac
d v p a Es 0
Co o
0
o C cM 0 Co 0 U N a) c
O m
4) 0~ ri z V) 3 a)a U c.) °
CU L CA
E 0 c~ ' U
cB O
a
00a)
OV
N P
P
O I C C
L
D
L
i Q°w
s
c U c Uc
3
N V
4: U N p
O 0 CL
s
L
M 0
N
v
N 0 C M
N 0- 0
0 N
c
y o 0 cc N a)
C
a) c a) U As
Z
3
t M
U)7 7
2
L- a
C
0
c
E:
7 L - O - ( d f0 7
O
U a)
y N
U N
N O
a)
U C p) O
c
M M
c
0
U
0
0 •--y> C O 0 UU cn
0- 0
UC
d a m
U)
L
m0
O i
C 54-0) D v a) a) 3
7
ama)c O
CO O U
a)
0a)
W co c N
s :
U O Q O s
CM .
C 70 C N 0 s vi 6 0 C O
3
0 V
O C
L
C C
N
0
U M 2 a) to
M
6
CL N
L
w - 5 E co
a)
U)
2
0
CD
n
CD
U) CTm - 0 m
0 L- s to ~ O c0
C7 S c° a M US - 0 r N M
0
U)t s~ ~ 0100 O> v V)
M
O
N
w
z
z
O
O
U
Cq
W
0
W
Q
a
N
ai
V
L
O
N N
N R
R N
Q Vd N
a
d N Q-
C
0 4)
CL
Co
a~a 0
G1 R~ N
V N ~
Rf R R
M CC a
CL s
M
n Q
m
d N
C/)
E
0
UL4a
O N o
Na
2
N ~
Q N 4)
V N
L 4
O L
C
w.
O p
cn C A
N c
0) 0 cc
u
C - 0
C O
LLLL O 1
0)
t M N C C
a) a)
L
10w 0 03:
0) 2
co .
2 0 C o p C .S 1-N c E
OU) A c
R tL0C c C C:
M U
U ' U-
0 S C C
fl. N aN.C p) a5 O FuO O
V
1C
0 S 3
pC
Co CE ( Dm U
p cu C_
U U
N a a t A
O cu m 0- 0 U U w cu ~ 2 d
Z
p C LL C a) a 0 0 : 3
VV
U') Co 0
N
C
a) O
co ca
0
m
U) N U C
f, ft
N O C a c O C 0R N
N O t Q)
N NL-
N
UjM
0 U a O U C •
u N U)
a)
N
N
U)
L M
L
C
U,
70
a)
C
L C
O a) O
U)
C
R
cC Co
U U
7
V a)
C 3
G•
C
a) C
0)C
C
fu
L O> u - a U
c
a)
C
r+
O _
O
a) ' C
0) CL
N co 0)
0
uU
AN. O
y
Q
y
N U N O
Cl)
O L R uU Q cu a)
O C R V O
p 0 a) Q C
C p -Q
O C
0 0
U U
Cl) a~i -
a) a) 0
C cu cu
E c > o Qccuuu) cuJ Q- a~ a E a) c
s N
a
cn 3 rn Vy
4)
Ori co U)
C:
Co j.- a)
N a)R
N
t C_
a)a) sO c cLi - a O V N P
P s O C
s
ca 0cu
cc - o E u)
to
D
0 a)
O
ca
a
MV Oco r
N C v- CU U ~
7 ' C_
Cl)
a) M ' t~ a`n)
cn
O - c a) E 4
U
O
3Qcti c u) cu co c Es E c' c aNi a) O
N
R t U 0 0 C L
U 7 Y N O U O ! a C ( u O O fO C
C
a
N
Q. p
O
y Q U p
C O
U
Q Q CL U
M ' N L
L to a)
O
C U 0
0U
V U-
a-
m
Aco
p •
UM
G
a)
N C O C' U
r = a 0
U)
C 75
w>
0
0 O
L
p>
a) t
O
U)
C scnM cn~cn
a)
s~ E a~i
C
cc°
p a) a)
N
E E
c
cuLuo a 0 0 v
H m E~ N FD i
a) ca
E
C
E
C O 0
V _ 0
A
CL
C a) R c c
D _ a
O 2
CL
O
D- C
C co C. CL C>
a
C a) U Q- 0-0 N L t N s co U Q. N C O L cu 0 e
en
0
O
N
W
qz
f~4
O
O
H
C
W
I
w
O
W
Q
a
N
V
L
O
N to
d d
m CL a
a CL
V m N
CL
D
O 4)S CL
c
a~0 O
N
v
Cc Mca c o
aL ~ U
Q d N
C/)
L Q
0 0 0
L
Q N o
N
c ~ s
N =
L d
Q N
V
V N
4) 4)
2
N = 4)
0 U)
0
L
0
a
O ~
R3 c0 ~ C
Co c
dZ
L
0 ~
0
N
Q m
Le) Q) cts
U j 0- 0
d 0 ca
CL Z
co
E
0) j,
O c ca
Q
V s
D CU
i
N C C A CO
Q)
o
a) - 0 Co
a o a-
c
41 0
0 ( vi co
o ca . 5
L
3 NV~
a) CV) 0)
N m
co > L-
Z
m
y
s U
u
E O E
co V
b C) oCo M
co a)
U
N
E
w 0 $
w c
a) - Co
m
O
O
O
N
w
u
z¢
F- i
O
O
H
U
a~
i
o
w
O
W
Q
a
N c
O
m
a) ui
o m m
D C a M
O a)
O
V W cn m a)
C c
w
o o
U n
O n
v
CO w N U co3
U> m
V)
N
d O u
a
O O U
N m
CL
vi 4) CO m
0
o
O C
Qm
c
V F
N
N
C
m Q) Q=
d
O
c
n
p
0
N QW -
cn
o
CL
V)
d N
c
D U
a
O N
d
U
m t? m a)
0 c c cn
N)
Q
a
O af o 0 a
n
N CDo
Qc p
C
ai
M U Nc
L m
M 0
U) CU
tO C Q
O U U a
a)3
N
Q) O
L r m rZ
C>
O
Q
R
m
O
a . S Z)
7 _ 0 U) N
U
m
O
V
V
4)
L.
C
L
QQ-
CC
z3
L
a)
3 MO
M UL O
0
L
CL U)
C
O
Q
O
Nt
C
a) 0 U L
U
Q N
U
E
Cl)
y O
U
Q U
caC
to - p CD
U
m U)
0 ~
O 0
O
v
C"j
c
L. CL
ra Cc
CD MQ-M m
Cl) m
t mm
U)
c
o C: - 0
m: 3c
L-
m3
0 p CD
Q
0
a
L
0
a~t- CL
m E m
t - O
o
V
C~ d
r
D M
N O Q O OM O e m> Ln c co
C
V
m r, Q ti Z1 fl N E O- o V 1~ 0 ti
j N C v N O E N N c c N m N m N
N . 4+ N
r
r u>%
Lo -
Qc u ~ co E cam)o N u o u
0 is
O
O ~
O LM O O
0)
0 O O
C
O Z In N O c O c O
L
m 0 C7 U N a D n
O
a C) U
a
a U) >_ 0 of a w m a w a
N W
L N C a y
Fa
Oo N co E - mo o
U) ca D
D
0 Ca
O
C:
O
R C
y
C L
0) co
Ja) c - k
0 U)
p
N
C
a) C M. 0 a)m C E - C
a
O C Q
U)
L 0l w E X U) CD
a)
a) Uo:
C
Z U a R ~
s 3 U) a o cin
C y U V w N E U C O m= O
N ui
O O C Co
Co - Jc a~ v-m• a)
V O
i t~ j Q
a v) a)
o
cn
cn~
C: 0 Nm - 3
co m i)'
co
O~ Co C
d=
m m
4
m~ L
V-
oc'
O
cn
0.
o c c
C
a
co
N
C
ca CD
N O
v; w m ag
0
C c- o - 0
D
a)
N V_
N
Q1 C
EE N B j
O
4 O $ C CU
a)s
S t~ o LL c
O
E
0
a) m
L
C C V Q O
j
U)
0- 0 g L o - O a) 0
U)
0
m L
2:
d v CO
m
y Co
U
so °g v E.> m ~ Uca 0 N
c
y
d cm a ic
0
o
o W.~ m o-
N o~ m- ay E
om
L
co0
0
co c v
c o E
c
mU cr m C
a
m U CU
5
3
QV C
P M
m y
a)
O
m o U Na' O Um
L- 2 012
d O o V
C4 i i
C 0
m
co
U)
o~~s m m
co
0
c
s c~z Q)
Q
C
N
a m
NL
V)
3
s 0 U C
R
V m
G 4
N
U
O C . O. O
L
p)
C s s E r
U
0
m o
a)
c
V U O 0 N
V
to
C
L
Ca)
0 Z a)
m O m to
C
A
N
Z p~ O O U to
U
0 O " O a) U- O U c ' L C
ao N cd
C
4 0 a) OO Of W a) 4) * FD - 0
O C0 L
O to O( D a)
d U M
U
C
r
cn m O
L
O N U) >
L OC-
U C a)
a) o
m m N
a) O C
O V
E
O
Q V U V D aj E c N a m N V U a) m
m 0O
Q Q)
O co 6 L N = c
D 00 L 0 UCU- 2.- Fn O cc CL a) 0 2
M
O
0
0
N
W
U
z
O
O
Gq
X
w
w
O
O
v~
W
Q
a
N 3m L E
o 0Q L
O 6 a)
C:
m >
U)
E
O
co a)
O
0
E N a) . V
c
a)
V N
C/) CL
0) a) om v Q..
V) a~ c co > Le a) O
N taH dco
C) 4-
U) m' L)
c
a) C-)C: 3CL d
N
O
Q
cn
N
c CO
o 0 o o N
a)
o
V
C
a Q)
aj o
io
0 0
m
a) n cn
oO N m U U U a)CL
0
C
m a)
O
C o
L
o
L
m
r
n a)
0 p in
0 a) - Fn
3
a)
m
d
a)
N
r
a) p
a
O
O
Q
C L
O
L
O
a
Q d
0 J C
E
v 0 U) v~ N O N N M O
C N 0 p mN
m
L U)
a
t
Qt C
L m oO
Opa) Q a) Q m
V L
L
Q) N a C U cu
O
U U
V
L
4
E O
U
U~O O
O a)
E
Q C U O p c
a)a.
o. 2 O m O M
Q
O U
N
a
c
O
C
0 c o a) uUi
U O 4 O
C
m U)
N
C
O
O to
n ND C
a) O
c
U)
N
J
m
L .
U " O m
U
U
CU
2
O C Q
4--
0 N
V
N
3
c. E
U) m 00) 0)
c
0 0)
U_ 0 c
0
U co m
m v•c 3 5 0 c0ac- 0 E a)
QE aD
Nr.+ Nd m~ o~a
o a o0
E
E
a> io~
E
a>i cm
0)U yN v
m of Fn
4) 4) cn 0 S~ U O O
7 Q) a)
C
O
0 U)
U) r_
N
CD O
C) as
m c CO
C U o
i U
C c~cN oa o
a
C~
o 0
a)
co
C7
Ri Z U
c16
G
o
N V O O o
O
N
O m a) E
V L0 sCO = 7 J ate)C o
Cl) m o: a)
m
E
U)
m
L
C
N
m
C~E M
Em~
0 0
JC
a)
m
o CO o o
m
api
s a)
V[ V OLM
Va
N
r CO co
O
O m s
D
m
m a
m
L
a) v, O m a
N
dp O p c
z
0
y
f° crm c
CL v Q
W
o C: i~ C/5
cn
U
E
o m m
N i- O N
n
O
c
4 o 0 LL a) 2 O O
N
0 0
A ~ d
70 6 L% Of Of 75 0 - 0
Z pM 3 3: 3: L) o c j a~i o
cn 0
0
N 0
p 0
J J a) c Q
m U
02 E 2 g 2 s E
a) m o w J J L : 3
U
Q
0
a) E
O
N e
C
a) O
0
m
0
m
3
O
C a)
a)
N of U
co a)
co n fn U ! n U U
y
f- Y w o
ca 6 U o N 61 L E c O ci 6 L
M
O
O
0
N
W
Z
z
Q
O
0
H
cq
W
i
o
w
O
W
Q
a
to
m
V
u
v
N
Q 4)
m
r
U C,
Q~
Q 4) N U
Cj) C.
O
c
m
a
Q
0
p
m p
Nc
ai
U
U)
t0 ~
4) U)
Q
co
aAS LZ
Q L.L E0
v-
L
N
C)
No
U)
OCL 0 : E
0 M
V u
r_
cc N
r- U
W .
v
r
N d v
N
d N
L.
Q
4)
L
0 U) U) CL
U1
m O
w u as
L v
O O to c
G p
L
U) j m
a) c O
L
cp7
Q)
C V
L
O +
Co
U)
U)
C C U)
w
0 O
IL O
L O
d a O
U
v a o a) 0
Q c 0 N
w-+
d
L
d R) J A a) CY) -0 7
C1 i p p
CL
p
ca A m c c- O
U0
d
c
G R
co
p a)
ry
co o LM
cc
3
c° O_c
Q N
C
V a~'i
U 2 a) 0 ice'
v A
0n co ~ O U C
N N N N C~
p
N
X 0
c a)
0 cc -
Q
m a
0 0
a
Co
c
Y
0) a) >
cc
L- -
a)
c
o W
r LL ca ~
m
D
j
P Q o
W
U)
0
co E
Co
L
a
C d = CV)
4. 0 Q) c m U) N a) m
N
CL 0 C 0)
m
cq O. C C)
u J Q) J L
m
c J
e a-
m
LL
A to c)
X
Z
d Q Q fA U
a)
n
ca
U
c c a) c
c
a) 0a)
co N LL Ce W
0 o O
N O
N 0) J O N Q
d U c c U U)
w D 72 2 CM
m
m Q a` J a J a L°L c~ d ai o
C: : 3
MU) M
C6 j zi x IV m 0 0 a m a m m E m
M
O
O
O
N
w
z
a9
O
O
u
a~
X
w
I
w
O
W
a
N
v
C Q3
V
v
N N
o
d ~
C 13 ( 1)
C CL
rx 0 N D U
C
0
C 0 CL a
e=v- ai
O N c @
i N t
0 Q 4)
CL L. ~
O l
C O
N'~L N
j
G) w
C\
C. v' s
O m •o
M
c
N N v
N d v
N
d y
V N tea)
N s Yo cc
a)
O N C
0 O
0
C
O
a)
a) to
C U) ma
a) WU
o
7 E
L C U ? i
N
ns
a C ma)`a0. N Eo_~ caca U Q O
Q
a)
V
CA cc
L N
a) ( D
a
E a) ` .
M C cOi
0)- 0
C C cn_ $ to
U
L 0 x
s
r+
N
Z
ca c L
a U
a) ' C ca C
O C
a)
N m
O w a)
r
W
L d_ L
cu a)
L) S
0a)
E ys... N L~>
a) L . L CCD
Q)
M
Od
Q) i
d Q._ a)
a)ca o CL - C a)
CC ~
0
U
0
ED
ay
C
L i p p
N a) O to -
D- 0
Q
co ~ c
D Q cam L to
a)
a) ns CU E
0 SOC R
C C
O is
C
O Q
E
O 0 U
a) N a)
Ea) 0) 0 ca
U C_L. e0 Q a) a) C o O Q C V
N ~C
a)
LV CO _
0
o. U L a) i .
N a)
O to 0
a)
C ( D
0
H
0
0 oO
9v o m CU caa) a)Q o 0U) UJN
a)
4
4> C°
V z P
a) -
a) - 0 C
N
N 7
C O
C CU N
C ca
i a)7+
O 0 U j i
to
L
O 0 cW
0 CO
N N n 0 o o m4-- o,° Er;
7 Q N V > 0O)
D L
O0 cU 7 a)
V) t0 U N C
L: U_ 0 CL
Q 0 C70 Q
U) LO
EN L
N~ U
a)
0
a
M
te
L~ a) ca 4
N 0
N
aY. O~0) C13 4)
o ° M
a
Z
N
CO
L
O N
c : 3
a)
C Na
0
0CL - 0 c
o
0 N
fa N ? E
CU ca ca c
r
0 -
L
6 - i6 3, o
d
V m 0) Cp O N
c . A X N :
3
b i- 3e : 3 a)
O N • C = U C 0
Go
A
2 2 ca ~ C O Lc v N N~ N V 2>~ O ca V
CL C W
2
N
w+
a)
O>
a) - 0 C
0
O
O L.-
r-IL a) w CL 0 a H M 0M IL E - C
Scacao a
M
0
0
0
N
W
z
z
pa
O
O
E>C
w
I
w
O
w
Q
a
N
m
V
c
as
v
v) m
y c0 N m to
V N
CL
G1 N1 U
V) CL
0
c ' c
c a a
a
t O CO
O
pa-e ai
N i N th
L
L
Q
E
Q
CL
y N'~Uri
O V
o
C
C1 N o
v c=a
ca N
N rN,,
V
dN
N
C L
0 U) co
d 0 C r 4-
O m C
D C U a) E N C U
N V CO a)
O. Cw.
ca s
o N Q'ao oCo .
r- -C 0
U) w UU 0 O O a)
CD 0 a)
LL
3 U Co 0 0>
M
CL N
a)
U>
CU
4)a) Ca 4- ( D >
3: D
U O fn
O U- O
L' R3
z
O
I-
O to ~ U
C Co CL
a 0
Cf)
O C
cc z 0- 0 a
x
0
CO
0
D _
0
a) O a)
N O N
LL
V to ca O
a)c w
0
a) U »
E U
co4) C
C 0
0 0
U L im 0 0- 0
04-- h-
O O
O
CL
E
O
O~
O
Q
a 0
O d O Q a)
a) a) v0
C~ . Q O
C
C U c C O U $ 0"
0=
a)
L OZ a) m O 0 U~ a) c c
N
Q ca pV
N ' fa O
V
O aCL(o
O
a
m a) to
a) ca11 ~ 0
41 C la
E ca
O
Q)
NN
C 0 0- o
o c E 0
0
c U '
v
C r_ V Q O V
CO
i a) 4-OO- ca
0 co co
Q)
QjD - 0
CL U) > . in 0
m m O O a)
0 L) 0 ca t wa) - j
Q m
0
r
e a) C
O 0 0 0
O - 0 6 O
a) m L
c ca
U)
a) . r a) Va) v~ 0
O c
O O
G1 OLU C•z c ca o " =. 5 Q N rn
C.
o cu - o$ P ~L
W
V-
V - co ca
E O 0 M
c0
O ( a O s O Q
N N N
C
0 O y
d C co 0 ? a) a) a) C Q U) > U) Q- 0 O 7
L.
t O U 0- 0 a) CD
O
0
c
a)
L E u) c
N
W 0 U
Q C " C O
L ( 0 O U) D " a
0
n
N O
O O)
a)
L
0
0 ~ Cc
a) v a)C
6 -
C m~
Z
t
m X s O U)
O
c
f na 0
Q i a) - C O C O C O S9 O
o
G M
N
a) O p t
C ' o a) U)
Q
a
caC
0 Fn -0
1 0
O 0> - p
O
ca O Q M
L
U NO
L)
O C N~ - C a) p) CU)O
r N cD U) N
4 U
U
O C Q O
N U u
O)
A
C
0
P
A
c : 3
p
r O p a) O
C E OU O ' A
C O Co Na)
O C J
U
r
A
c a) ' O s V
U a) 3
N
y -a C
O V N a) C m C V
E' a) 2 a) a 0 O s 0 O v) > sC
a) O N ca
c 0) O
0-- a o a. c a) a 0- 0 a Q U) m 2 s~ s a m e OCO w a
M
O
0
0
N
W
z
z_
O
O
U
E~
X
W
w
O
W
Q
a
N
as
v
v
a
V ev 3
r- CL a.
4) N D U
Q
0
a i-z
C 0 a
5
a U
CL
r o
ea ~ ai
N i N
cco
s ~
V Q d
i Q))
L
CL Q
Q.
U)
N '
i U r:
NO
G~ N
CL s
o
m -o
M v cn
N 4 v
N r)
v
d
U) N
Q - 0
V M
0
0
U)) c a
co
a)
rt° 'm ca
A- a
N
d o co a)
a)
o ~ a)
cn s
SE
CO) O o a) p0' s
m
E: V O
C
i C
C U
m
U
e
O
m E - 6 a)
Cv L- M O
N -
F
L a) - 0O
U o . O
to O a)
O) a) Q 4) C CL
Er
RS Z
O a U a
a) CL
0
aU
N
c O N
U)
0) ~ O Qa)
c CL c co
O U 7
m c J
m N C to 00 a)
O Ca ~N
N U
0
U
o
U)
to O a) O~
L- 0)co
c CL
1 (
u
CD m
p CO> U) c s
G1
O
N a)
d
cc
a)
a)
m
C
ai i •-M c - c N " 0 ' Fn v
V 0 ~ 4
sv)~ cn
c~ NEwc c ° °ma = i Em~ a°i~ o
4)
m L
d0 z z U
a)
U
c~ E3 O O Q d c
0( D - C E
E a' . N
OL - L O m c
0ca 4) U) 0
C 3
CL co co
m
a) a) m U O o a) a) < W i>-' L Q_ a) a) c
Z- > CL D 0 - 0 a) C - 0 0
V C C 0 a) r Q O a
c a) O 0 a) P.
O O Z' O O O c
o L)
t) viE co
o m ( 0- 0 °- U > o~ c o c m c o o c
p 4.
d
w+
c
7 U
o
Q
v
a) 0)
c
L C: c a) Q m m
O m~
C - c
L a) cn
o a) a)
0to Q• c a)
cc >
P
o a EN
w
m
Q
E-v- N
U)
o N E
a._
a~i o
3
C
0~ 111 co a)
a 0
E
L-
m
a)
m~ U~
Aa~ c o
C
L~ U Q- >
O o
a.+ a)
40 0) CV)
U) 6
0 p)
L c a O • U L O c~
0
C a) ~ C O a)
L a
N OQ U
a)
C
to
O =
O
O ~ U Q
cn L C w Q
to
V o p
m C) U
O Q c m 0
Wc~ U
CD a) m
S m oO
c 0 a)
0 cco Co
Z
d 0) Q 0 a) a) c CL a)
w Co vOiA N `
c
V 8 O N
N_L m
US Q Q
C;) m c
co N O M c
O
N L~ 4-
04-
co N
Q
C5 U) a)
a)c a) 0 U)
Q c) o v E v
LO
c
Cn - 2 E ( DU mL m a) c ( D o
E
v S v v o a) C cn
a)
O
N
7 a)
rn
O
a
QO
mc~ ELU)
O
a
Q) O 2 O
CCDQUO
O
a
U)
V > OL co
SUH~~ m
M
0
0
N
W
z
z_
a
O
O
H
CC
C
W
w
O
h
W
a
N
d
V
N
V
v
N
Qd
4)
v N
Q
Q)
r- CL
Q, C1 N U
Q
0
c a
CL
O U)
ai
W 4) N
c
C/)
L
N
L
v
Q. Q
E O0.
U) v
No
G1 N
C L
o
V as
N N 4)
v=
N N 0
N 4)
U) vs N
Q c
v c~
L
4)
O 0 V) a)
a) 0
O
o
a L - C
F-
a)
Nca o
1) LL Q)
rn co
0 cm
4
N v
E 5 L J co O L N N G c
C caCU
O C ca
Y
O R3 C U
caC i O C a p~ UNca
U~ a)
a) 0~
v to
cc
C4«-a)
C
a i
a)C
cC a)
Z
d 0
a Q a)
C i 0 . C to 0 U
O _U) v
C
O Q- a) LpO
L
V
O
L6 3
4)
a3
i
O ca
a)C O
0 C
0C 0
O
V
0C L
0Q
0
C
O) fn V
QC
a) co
A O
o C"" ~ L
0
0 '
0
N
4m- 0
to a) 0
to p
O U
0 ,C U O 4) C a) to a1 E to
O
a) ca ca
caa)
0 0. : P C 0 a) C C N
U
V L t j co C 2 EN t O
W m
U
a) - C p) c:
a) cu F-J
C1
d
L. 0 Z
M
co
O0
W- EU O Om H
a0 of
0 C c O N
co O O
p) _ c?
CL
V 0- 0~ c 0
C~ moo m
m
s
0
v/
3D
a)
V 0oa i
L O
N
O 0~ aQ 3
L Ln
a)
of
0
a)
y+
0 4) L)
Lf
ccc
CL CL5- CU 2 CL
4)
LL
Or = 3
d a+ c°)i 0 0 0 a) CLav o
m
c j
C US >,3
0
0~ 0 U
G1 OL
aO Cfl
0)
ca
to
Q
0 3 - • C
A
0 r
L
0
to >
3
a
Vv) c
W C aCitn-2 0 4
t O spa z aO
4C)
co
a) C.Qaacm)i ca~E
am
4) O
F-
O M Q 0
O - O
ca C ` to to L O O U)
O
L i~ 7 N
7 a) O> C Q a) ca c 0$ C C C 0 i
cn s0
V
U Q 0a)C
M
N 0sa) 000 w0
U
000
000
0 a)
OO0(D
0
00tH
0 t to t 0$ > 1 U U N U to U O • L
L U C
L
Z Q Q)
L)
to U S2
D
V U) U
caa) c
U) Q
0 O O a)
0 0 0
to a) a)
O U>
00 N
ti
O a)
C ~
N
a)
s+ j i 0
C
Q N O
Q
V
Q
O
a)
C4 J~ m m a) CD
L
O
p
A Q A 0 E N to O) Q Nco N a)
O 0
a) 0~~ C 000~c
p° c p0~aa)) po00
F" N a H D U ca d c4 iR ~ J N
1
0 CU N t9 N U
M
0
0
N
W
U
qz
0
Gq
C
W
w
O
v~
W
Q
a
N
d
C Q)
m
V
y
v
Q 4
C C j
d d) U
CL
O 4)
Ua
CO
Q M' a?
RM c`U°
N v1 sCO
L
L
CL Q
Q
v
H U
NC a
W
O
V V
M N
V
N ~ 4)
v
N
N
L.
Q
d
C i it
L
V) C p s 7 0) O
A cn
N O O Oa) N p U
N v H C 0
c
cam-C
s c
c cU N O C
O
CL Cl) A
c
U 0 u
N E
3.
t0 c0
C L-
ca0Em3 0) Ca 0 a) a)`ncv) f° m caa)
c
a
cu
co cn a)cn - C ( D
C
a)
Ycc Z
CD a c 0 ia o c
0
CZ
m~ L
4- a)co m a No
L am- OEOca ca L a) 00 per. aa)V to 3
O W
O
U
V
O ( a C
0 . 6 - r- : E N
p
U
C V
0~
a)
c
c
s
0~ 0
C
0) O O
0 cn
t
s
O A da= 0
L
0c%" M0 00 0 c~ wE'cna)~ rna) O
d i p O
p p ~
Q A r a)Q N ca
3
N N~
S
0N U
U
C
a)
0 >
a)
co
0 a)
a) c ~ °
O
C: 0
2
G1 C m
E
O
o u i 0
ca a ' c O 2
V C c V Q a) S
O
a)
N0
Q N0 O C O
M
03:
0 O - 0
0 L-~ d , r-
a) i
a) Q ma)
3
m
cc
y
0
a)
E N~c~c~
0
CD0 a oN> 0co N
c
od a i
U O
a
Q
i
c A' 0
s
x
a) N
a
cn 0) a) a) - 0 CD C
caU
N1
d
Q
L
3
ca
U 4
a) L 0,
4a
N
m
ca
A
ca
3
4- M A / n c -O ANN
V
cca c a
0)
M
3 c~
ca CU
a) . c
0
s 0
c
E Ac r- o 5
E 0 ca co
c
0
LL
U)0
H
W
N ri U 0 C:
C
U E
0a)
U
c cn
O co
0 c
L 4 N U)
c • N c c ca
Q
0
ca > a) a)
p
c~' ui c c
N V
o
0
a)
s0
D
p . 0
c
O
o
U p
0)
O p
0 0 to O L- U 0.0
N) cfl v
Q L
a) O
U ca 0 ca U- U c a) U=
c cr O LL U O U A
Z GCiM
0 cN O
1) ca
p 0 Qa a 0 Q N 3 L-a caO Q) N C0
co N
c
c
osc
a)
E tea) Q-
O c O ca - c
a)_ u)
U)
sQ
c
a) 5LO
Q U ca
CC
0o m~E N 0- c 0s
n CO
0- O
0 E0Ea)( a LLE 0 E 0~•
Q U
Q
1
a)
N O 00a) Q
fa
N
N 3:
0
c
0
0
a) a) N a) a)
Q O0
02-c Oa) a)
i0. 0C
3
0 to
cr 0A4? a)~
0~
p
0
Co
o~
a)
U ai 0. O U - 0 O) O 0 O_ co co C U ca
M
0
O
N
W
z
z
p
O
O
r~
X
W
I
w
O
W
Q
a
N
CD
v
C
N to d ~
c CL
a 4) to D U
Q.
0
C
0
0 CL CL
fl 0
p
m
rn
a;
U
N L to ss
V Q 0
L
i
V
Q Q
E OQ.
U)
r, O
L.
N
U
NO
to
OCL C L
O
M N
cv
N , 4;
m
v
dU)
L -
p d d
0
2 2-
V ~
L
y
O to c
L a)
O d) 0
co 0OLC
s
s Cc
to v
c°
a) CU N° o
a)- AD
a)
i>
CL
O
E
Q N
a) . c
U
0
O . N 0 U
N
Z
O V a
p O L
a) E a) O
to
2'>
p C
V O
C
n• a)
O
m s L
p N
0
to 7 O a p 0
V
y
L
ca)~,4)
4-
0 4) c
U
L
sU-
0a)
Q
U
y
Ni 0: 3
O
p
to
a) cn
S
i
O
C
N
C
ca~ m o
a)
0 a) M c~ O g caCo
V C
O =
sV N N
coN
C:
ca co
L
V
Q a)
y co p 0) L-
L
Q p
L
a) Co
Co a)
t)
coCa
a~+
C Q) = O
O Q
L C
p p
3
a Co
L a) ry
N d
0
3 U
i
O co a) C
p
L
a) a) Nv
N
I. L
L
t~ ~ Q L a)
a)
Q N
C C
m o 4
N ~ o 0
L
CV)
3 Q N
ia
C
Co
C
N
c Z
C Q C
coU
N t0 O
L
V
CD= O:3 n
c0
V UU) ( d p
N O
L
Ua)~
t
0 Ua)US -
0
a)
cuN
U5 jc
Z
0 CF)
t)
to >
4) • La)
a)
L
0)
ccco 0
D
co N 7 . C
N
C p
a) C0 O
Z
p C p,
d
U
cU~ 0
s
U
O~
C
Z c~° )
a) cn U c ~ U)
U
I" O CC
C L O U oo c
CEUL. r v u) CD >
M
O
O
0
N
W
FQ-i
a
O
O
X
w
i
w
O
W
a
li
4) 13
t-
CV
C
cn
1)
0
CO
U)
w
S
D
O 0 2
a)
CO
a) a)
H O U)
C) N
O
N
U
O
O V c a) 0- E
p LOG 4) E
v
I, O
v
O O
m ff
O
O O
0) p
c
a) c
O
n ca
0- 0
Lwv!
U)
r. r
z
LN
m a
U)
E 3
i
U)
a) a)
co L a
c O- d C cu
U
U) a) a)
C
U) c
O W c p
d
C.
N
C Q)
4.
pm
4-
CY)
L-
C
p+
Z U) cc
N
ca
ca U) O
ca c
V) O
O
C
Q~ U d0
0)
cam n) E
N
O
d
L
a) * CM O)
c
0 a U) 3 E
O
O
Cl)
0 x
ca d
to a)
L
c`o
m
a)
L-
t
i
O U
p m
U
m @O 04-
N
W c c
O
c
o
a
a)E
CD
CL
QU
cc
H
r-
njt
c w
U3
c
O O a)
E
cc
a U)
L
C Q O d C
u
i R VO
W
U) a) C p O
a)
O
O O
p
D V
W a~
Q1 V
CL C
m
a
E 0
La)
Eo T
a c- 0
Ec
0
0
O uJ
0a)
a) " O
c
L) 0 CD
o
N 0
V
L
4)
a)
0 ( n
c
c
0
c
U
N o a) 2
C
n
A)
0 0
C t 3 M 0) C O
o
U)
a)
U t
a) U
0
M W tn ( D
y C
C
tm
r
O
O
N
O
M
ca "
O
a) I*
O O
m :
E
in
O
a) W CO I
N
G1 V m ca O E
c
cu
E
N O
I-
CM
T.
N Wco a)
Q
O N N N m E CV a) CV 0) - O
w t) a) 0 m v V V j '
O ~ U Q
v O
m to
O
O j cL
O to y C7
w o
a a
o
t7 c
O
a
o a) O
U o a
m p O
co p a
a)
of
N
a)
O
a
a) 0
O E W
O
a U)
4. 0 CD
a)
3 d
0O
Q N
d)
C
C U
O U
U)
E N5
C
0
co
C
m
L
L
V
a U
C M a)
a) - CC a) U co
U)
U
C~
CC . a) L
fa O cE
a)
a) - C
a)
E E
C 3
C a) a)
c 2 ca o m
co
a)
s
C
a) N - C
O O O U)
O
M c
O
U)
A- j C a)
C O
70
O
a)
E C U) a) a
Z
d
v
O U)
a) rnE
L
0) ca L
ca
p N
M
m
C
a) c
3 N , C
C
C 0) C U CD~
CL
a) a) ` o
U)) m a) U
N 0
U
O Q
z
0-
c a)~
0
pr
a)
aN~ a) L p a
i
0
i
c
L N
U) ( a O C
O) fB
N
a
M p•
C
O U
aQ-
O U
a) O
Q N N
co
4) Co
0 C 0 a) L
U) -
V •
O C E 4)
a) a U 7 U) ca
N a) C t
C M V
C . C
o to N M E mU
07
C a 2
0
s N U to
C
M
C o w
CA
a)
0
cma)~cncu
a
CD
a) oca Uo a) a
E V C a) o N N O
U
U O
a) O) c(D
n
0) cc O) N O j E
0
i C,i CDca~o cc oEE ca' c.~ I a C o5
41
0 ONL)
t 0) _ 0 -
16
co
N
a
a
C- CO)
N U
L 7 c
U ca 0 0
U)
a
cv 3
L L.
O L c
c
N
A
t
1, E a cm
c°
O U
c
c
C
2 4) 0 4
4
0 US Oa) a) O O U,
scCD.- a3 c 0)o ca
O
a
o co OO S
H U) ( D -E
L
m O N
o _ co a ( a to co O) o
N
N
L Oco D
V
a 0 ~ CM
U U)
0
01-
N>
L
C a E a)
Q
O
a) C
S
O
L
CO 0
4-
U
a) - 0
C
p EoSOw Ica y0(D
a)
m.~~~
A
cave
Fn
c
cm
ca0)
L U) caO v
Q
t- a) c O
O O. U) O
U p V)
a)a) ( D a)
ca
E ~
0
O
O
L ca
a s N
C O C
E ca
O
O N
O
U
p
U%
O
N
c
O
Cc to0) CU4) LD
Q- a) cn L6C
O
a) v) D 0
w
76
2 L C : 3 J
O O a 0 C "O 2
W
N v O 0 0 0 O a) co c Na co U co ca a 3 ca a 0 7 ( a CD 6 U UD a a a co o- o S . Q E : 3
M
O
N
W
Z
O
0
U
H
x
W
I
o
o
O
o~
v~
W
Q
a
C
U)
O o
O
0a 4+ U
0 C
Lca
7 0 0
C
SD
t/) C. C c 0 C°
O m
CL
d °
a.
0c
V
a)
CO
E
O 0
caNCa
0)
O O c r-
U) 4) N t CV o
r Q
L
0 C
O
O
V
CL
CL
E U
D
0. 22
p
o
N O
U
C 2 H
pt cu
C 0
c
4 .0 M 0
a)
Q ~ , V
0
V cn d Q
0 N N m
A- 0 ( D
AD L
O to
0
C: a)
m s
c
a) 5 W
co a)
a
O
C
f0 o p
N
c
a) C uj 6 Q)
0O
a) co C
L U
o- Ca a) o
3
cn O c
W m
N E2 =
3 1)
N ~ -
C) cp C
to
a)
C - a -
C 0 co 0 p
CO
E
o
3
v U)
0
N
C a)
p N
u) a)
0 0
CL
O C v L s
r
to a) 0
C
O O 0
O
C1 O 0 U L O a) U
c
4) to a 3 E o a) -(-
5 3: U) 5 = : 3 o
Z V C N
D C - C0 A~ ~ w
C N C ~ 0 V)
N N
0) C
0 Co
L
L6 0 N CL
L
a)
p
U
L
N C
0 C 0
O
O C
0
L)
L L
a)
L) a)4
0 0)
O 0)
O MW
V cu
cc E UC
0 0
a
U (
0 0 C o
co 0)
C w C
n N Q
CC -C
L- -
N N 0 D
L
Q 4 0)
a)
C
ca = 3 a)
O S
co -
O a Co N D
L p
s
C
o c
O
L E
O p)
OC ( o q L) U O
Q- U) . L U 0 C O
0 CO N
p p
C
N • O C/)
t o
oNE
Q
0) a) w
0) O
s . C fl.
L
L>
C0
0)
U O O C
p o
C
L -
0C2 a)
a L
C a)C O
A/ C C
CJ
O
Q
ca
7
0)
E 0 ca
4--
O E
0 . U
o S 0
C
C_ ( p O - C
C E
O
N
o ca
c
C c
U 'N
0 0
c C
C
c a)c
a) L 0
L
E
L
0
D 0 E p
C
E Oo
a)
to - 0 L
G. V
0 M
L
a)
C o o p O aSO
0
a) C
0
L
Z6
L5
CD C) p f
O
0 . 0 3
O L
O
p a) o N
Co
C
U) m U)
O 0 0
c
C
L
4- 0 ' N U a) Co CU O L)
Q c N U) N p U C N C
o U= Ov co a)
O
Z 4) O
d V
O
L
F
0 It
w
u) E0
o
E 0~
L
A
cia
L
o
0) o O
Q
O
CL
L o C 0"
a) v. E ca a)
C7
a)
vi0
a) > o
a)
O~:a~ s
u
N
U) 0U) U c
3
0o m
u
wO
C LO
o
0CU
N°
0
0
N
ci co = 3
N
A U) 0 C: oco
3
N0 V U) N~ s -p r 0 0 CU - U p
o N E A
CU
0 E 0
C
O
a) w.
N C
C C
0
0) N
0
0 - C
O
N C 6 = 0)
a) 0 C
0-
L)
Co0 0 to C
C o>
D
O
o
M U L
o 4-- sp
C U) lp U
y
0 C
WU) ( D CL)U 0
C U
0~
0
q_O
o ( vC
O O 0 to
0) co o p Q 0 F-
U
V N
O~ 0
O
y y
V C
0 0 7
C 0 C
0 0
0
W CU
A
U
C
N
0 N
L L a)
F- 2 c)
C C O
a a) r M CV Q tp C
L C
s E
S
vi
0 0 ( D C
M
0
O
N
W
z
z
O
O
H
H
W
I
w
O
C
W
Q
a
C
E
d
v CL
N
fa
t c CL
d y
Cl) CL r c~00) w
N
i= O4
CO
CL
t CV
C Q ~
G) i
i1 C
O
C' L
V a
E U
O C/)L.
N r
V
C 2 N
C
O
i vQ
C
d
V N O
OV) H
4) f)
2-0 U) a) 0 2
U)
0
O f(/) Oc9 n2 C 0 L-w
O a) 3 o tom sN C
mo C
0
a)L
c
COCU0 m E
p
a)aa))U) -
C
E
U) 0 CL 3 4) - 0 0) U) 75 0 0) ~ 5
a
cu CA - 0 M
o
ca c a) -0
v ~ c c O O)~> 4-- ca COm
n Oc 6 0 2 a 0~ a>i~
P
lQO
a)
C
7
O C O
O L O.
O
a ca Co U UC - a 0
m O fa . r
U) Oa C
ft) O L -
0cr C
V Z
d 4) C 0
c
U 7
a)
C
U
ca w C a)
N O
c
a)' 0- 0
a) a) _ O O
c
U
U) a) Caa) 0) to U) N LOCa 70
ca •
N U O
O 3
C fd 8 Q U C w . 0 m
4) CD AUU co
0 4) CO UC
M
a-
U
3 - 0
0)
0)
m a) oE
0 - C ( D
CU
rQ) c7- C
CU
cu
C 0) C
U) CD
O O to O p
V a) L(D
M U t U N a) 0
U as0) c
N
N S a O a) U aD CO
co
L i
Q- a) O a 5
ZS O E
0
C DL
CL
a
c
E N
0)
N O
U)
C
N U N
C
0
a)
C3 0
C 0 E
m
C- U•
c~
Oa)
c f~ rn0
a)
fa c
U~~ N~
fa~
3
a)
cc•5 S
YI '
O ~ EE
fn m U p a)
a
L
3 a) f)
c
M M
o L
U)
0
f~ c
4) m
J
C ii N U c D " a U Ca 0 m a) 0f0 C m
3
co
N E
O
A O
O a)
E
w
O L
CL M
f0
a) t
p
C
Z
O
O t p O) L fp a) - p f0 C
m -
c0
O OC
R1 IL 4 C S CC O Na)N L s s UL QM a U Q- Nca
IL)a) U
L 4)
O
1
O
0
C to
0 -
0 j
O U L 0) C fC6C C E p aj 9 C O • N V C C L
0 L
U) U
M
a
D
L
C O
o~ N p O O c ( D CO O C p > to C
p 0 ' O
U
a)O
m
Z O
a)
Q O O 0
0 U
co
a"
1 ~
N
s te a)
O a C a) C U 0 N
d H 3 clT a a C
0
a) .
W w U) CL CD ( D
N N E c m
U)
E v M-
c a; m
0)
E ( D G 0 0)
N
a)
D
ca O O
Q f7 s M N pL O
4)
U)
C N
L
MV a) "O O 0 N O
E
O O
U
c
ca
U
vi UinC
C
c
a)
a) a
s
C
O CU
N a)
a) f) C
O Nfa '
L
a t - p
rna)
O L
Ua)X
a) ~ c
L
U
ca U 0) WW rn
O U O
CU
U
Ov
U
L
O UC la)
c
C
0 N O a) N OO C
co
a E
fn
N
U U
p U
U O C C/) 0
r
Ua)
c Q-
s
U
U
p
a L ca
U p U N
Q C W
L
a C
L a) a)
U
co U>- c E Q c U)
c E 0 :
3
O c
fn VJ
O ~ j~ j
U ~ J U)
to a)
3 - 0 p
L
a L M O O
L M= a U
C
f[1
O
U
O a O C X
m VJ a)0- 0
U O
E a) U
M
O
0
N
W
U
Q
O
O
U
X
W
I
w
0
W
Q
a
C
U)
VQd 3
N O
m c
a ,c
N
V C. c
0 4) s
z0
v
4)CO0 a
Q cm T
U) i u) CV
Q C
O
L O
L C
OL OC/)
N U
N
702
N = - pRS
i C vQ E
a)
V N O
0 N N
4. 0 4)
N ~ 2
c C CL
d
O N
a)
V C a)
Di ca
V
O
0)
C
a C
a a)OC C C
o o
p
N N 0 U) U) C a)
M
C0
a N L) 0
ca
C d O
V
j o C
r= N N C O C a)
N CV
o .
to rn
C
o ca a) - p a) c ca
w
C O N
0V r
p t. OU) O
5, a)0) U
U C co U L- CCoca
C- C p
N cu
N Orr
L
ca 0)
Cts c: U) Oa ~ a a) ~ ~
N C Z> O O
0)
O N Co3
N a
a)
soC° 0
U)
a) N= 0) E
C
c
Z V caw 4 . C O- C a) a) ( a C O U
a
U O t
co ca
U) L a) w N
O
O
U N L- 0 ' r- E ca 0- 0 p a U "
r
ca
1A
N
d
p) W .C o E
N O ~
N a) > ( a Op Nc
a v ca C
V) a)
a a ca
0- a
C a) a)
6
p a)
p CQ
O
Na)
C
LU) O
4)
V
O i= a) ca
N
co
L CD L a)
U CD
X ( a L ( aa) -
6
a) 0 L O 3
N
a) a a)
V 0
0) >+'C
ca
C O
4-
U)
U)
CL co
4) a) U) w U
cu
M 0
U)
0
r_
N • O . r.. 0 L •
L U ( a Q
DZ
C- 0
a)
0- 5U
1
Co
c: o a)N in c p t5 v 3 C
0 a)
R
v
00c^ N C N O O
N E'
O
w
Uw
NLo LO s 0
f-
L
o
c
co
ca ca
M
cnc 0)
c
a
d a) cL. v iQ
a)C p Q C Cl)
C CU N
L L t0
O
0 M
N
a O Q i E
U` M : 3 O wC
O O
o >
s a
U N
V
N
O0) a) C
t- 2
0 a
Sr
C a
D O Q
ca
X
Da)
O
0co 3 mVU
a) - p to > (
u o
L0 co
L
Q
a10
ca ~ c ayccaaa) CL a ca 0
C
OZ • r+ D
r
a) o
L• a) w
a L 4-- O W
a) P
N C
L
ca
O V
O
t~
L
N a)
p
C L
O
co Co cn
U
a)a)
O! cam
LOC ( D
Ca W
1) O OCL 0 U) C N C
a
U C5U
a) N
C U)
p 0
N
to ca ( a L O . 4-- L a)
D O ~ C- ~ O' o V
U C
O 0 p
0 X D a) N O
LQN s
t0 a) : 3caU) M
0 a)
C. c M
0
0oo
a w
C ZU
L-
LO
m ~
C
W V
a) a _ C
U') Co
C C p O
a)S
U) a U
2
M N U
Q
C
O
a)
U
L
L co p caw
w
C a) , 2 =
O
O
US p)
N
O
s
O) C O a)
O Q ~ Fn 0
caa ~W( UO'D M
Q i
v0 ~
C aC C p- L
D a
V
s S
ca U
6 ~ca Cl)
M
C
0
N
w
z
9z_
W
O
O
H
as
O
N
W
Q
a
C
v 0. 4) 3
Rf 0 w
7 O N
V) ar
O4) aom
d 3O
v
d
0
N N o
M ea c~-
4) U) ID
N
CQ
la
m c
L Q O
O ~ L C/)
M N o
U
C 2 N
C . aea
Q d
C
L V
O N N
4)
L a)
d2
0 N
N
i L
C
W
N
C
N
W-
W
cn
N
O
co
a)
aO
C
Cu
0
m0 U)
N
W
E E
E d tq~ 0
a)
NN
0c
Qv
D
o
W c
c m CW °
0)
N N6 >
U)
o ~
o) U C c
0 0 cu
t4 C U
o
m
Lo C cu cnCu W C N ca
U)
a) c0 ? N 0 . U)
C O N R
cu
N0)
a) 0
0 4) 0 -O N
cu
O W j
0 N O 0
C
pp 0
O
N s C
L
U) a
4)
Z
CU
O
U
U)
M0
to C L
o
CL
LC) U v
E C
co
e cu
C
U
W
L U
Q. 0O
C
cu O
Z VN
U C U C L
O
L--C
d O N
N
O
CCu
L)
a
C
E
00 cu
u N . C Q U
cu O E UL 0 N W O O j
N O
N c cm c
0- CU N UcC cU) i' fl-c
Q
U'
a°i 9 c a)
OG~ S 4- U) Cu N ( B
CL i C U D
L
U) N L
Q. ca m O Q - N 7 Q O Q N N N
N
N C p
O
N
XO C O C :co
s
E
U)
Cu OL > co N ca
L C>
M cn
N
C:
Q 2
0
O C O
U) Cc 0 2 O
C tC
C C
U U 0 O Q ' O E - C
O L O C N C ti " O N O
O cn
L L
C O C r- N p)
M c
Cu cm p• O v
0o E
N ca
c
cc
s O ca
r
CD
L.
O
0
N
0 w
0 ( D
c aL)
cu
r N~
CL
CD E cn v O$ w
N
Cu
N aa L U N V 2
U
cu a) E :
0
co cu CL C: U)
0 N C
cu
0 cu C s
00
0 C:
cu
C Y N~ 02 N •N
O p O V N cu~ 0
p cu c0 a N
U)
Z 4) 0
0 p o s~
cu - a
9
C
0
co - 0
C
N m CU c
rn 0
N >
U)
C)
y
c
0 a
C U"
a
N O
c cU
E L
0 cu
N
O
U C
C: in
r;~
0
CL LUo) c a)
U)
W M c~V) a--
L
NO L L u)C v' 3 U
p c- 0 ' v v~ ° N C t cQ N N
v N Q O . C N
Q
W E N O 7
toO C N
zz 01-
N t p Cu t, • r N O_ N O U s
H c~ 0Cu U~~
o 2a)~ vcn~ aCc i~ N
rL., ( 6
O .(
n ( Q N " p L)
L
u) L
co co . U
cu
O N c0 -
s `
Cu Q 7 N L O
W N A N E
Cu Uc
O 7
O
ca m
f0 N ( c)C
to s
Na U)
t
s O C U)
O
U C O N
cu Nc ( DU Q
L
r c
cu
i N
L-
C
UU)
im
NN p p
OU cA cA c0 O c4 O m O m v c U tA Nrn 0
M
O
O
O
N
W
z
z
O
O
U
W
I
w
O
M
W
Q
a
C
vN Z
CL , c
N
U) CLC C a~
O a i
tA-p a
V
C d
COoM
tM9 C
N
C Q i)
Q ' L U
00 2 O a)
V)
yM 0
U
C 2 N
as
N C -
oea
Q D
c
0
0
d
L U
O v) W
3 4)
0
U s L
p
L
C C
O a) 0. 2-
to
C
N C
a) O
O- 0
7- C C C
Q
N " O
a A
to
C a) ( L) ca
L
p
0
a)
7 c C
O p
S
r
ca S
a)
ca
a
fa
to O m a a)
a) p > E c O 0 0
to V OD cu E
Xca) cca) a) V E
N N
O a) p) L
a
Ua a) C
L rC L O- pQ o
a E - a
E O a)
o
C
N cu.~b
a
L
4) N a
U-0p U ~ c i > C~ 0- v,~ aiUI Rv
E vi o
z Izz
C
ca ca ca
U) L
0 0
N N a Q N
ca E
L L a)
C
O
O C
to
3
to O p
2
N C a 0) a) - 0 O C7 a) a) 0)- G to
C
U
L
to X C C C C
co
C p Q f0
QCD
L
N
L N c
H s O to
x N cifc
Oa
c Q U
c C
c O
cts Cs N~Ly U) s c
o
t n
2L
d o C 0)
to N O U)
t
o Nil' ® N p " a
C - 0N
ca Q O
a) a)Cc 0 Q
p
c c
a) C to
L
Q. ca cu ' a
0
L '
a cca) ca E a) E O N 0 CU
p
0 3 O IWN s La)
E N " ~
V ? i a) 0 a) c p a) p a)
ca
cr,
N
C M U fn ° U L X a ca - C D C~ ca E N .
N E p i
c
N
C v~ 3EN
C
sN~ E
3
vca o
C vc ia
C L iov
N
ctn° 0- 0 O•
C
a)
p a) D t a) °
E u)
O
ca
CL
v- p a) • a) a C a) 0
d
O V
N CL
U O a) L
c 7 y N O E E
p
p a) ca t
c p a O
C i to a) > V Q M a) C
a
O) M N p
a) O
a) " a
0
c Q p
0
E
p N a
to 3
t/) U
U
O1 t
a)~ Ua) a)
a)
O0)
m N
C
Fn E~ a)Ec
C
Ica
N a
COaC
to
a) 0 c`_n m Q a~i
Z
m
0
s
C) U) o cm U v
N 6 ~
rn a
r a) to C a)
ID
L
0) < A iaaa))
g toU c~ E a i c i
L
v i
a) a) p O1
Q
s
a i m
c
E
V)
V
O C
N
00 M
r
Q
L
ca a) O O O C '
N
U
N
C) E
c O
ca
p L
m
p > a) to E cc -
a a) cO E
C ` L d" -0 N c • c
E oaM O
Qc°v•~Q c
ocs0 cr c aEco ca ai Eo 5
0 0)
C C C
a)
m U)
0- 0 O a L
r-
m
0
0 - 0
CL
CL
4)
W
m
c CL
X
U
C 3 s Ca a)
to w 6 a)
O
r- m N ca E cv M c0 W
aE..- 0 U sSo
x
mU) aa
a)
tn
c
U
M
a) M
M
0
0
N
W
z
z
a
O
O
as
X
W
I
w
O
W
Q
a
C
d
v aN c
CL
7 d U)
a r C
UO 4)
d
COO
N ON
cQ
0
O
a r_ E
OO.2
m
OV)
y.
V
C 2 H
y C
ets
C
L
ev
ca M,
coL V
O tj
N°)v 0) L
0 U) L y,,
O
C
co a)
O
L
r+
O
O
f6
to
V) C t6 V O
Cl) a
c C0
a)
C ch
v OO O L 7 U C U O 3
O
O "
a a) C) C O NV
Q cuN O_ to O O O to
N a)
c 00a) 3O . C
V L C
C fi R E
L (
D c C
N 0 M a) - C m a) c„) 0 0
co
t
N n.
c
O
ic
L
sB
o
U
c
O
Ew cu
a ~
O)O
a
a)
cN
C m
C c O
V
CI)
Z
d
L
0
c E
O L
a) L
L CUo
C U
oa)
F
O
a
a) a) 0
00
to
O O
oco
O
X
cc
o E CE
o o 0) 0) 0 D 4)
f° ohm
vco a)
EU1 O
G1 to
d
ss
a)
E
o E
cu o
C
o
E a) C
X
mac 0
x
a) o
L O
m~
L C c
V 0 q) Ca
O
0 c) 0 o 0
N
X C o
cu
CD co
n CDN
O Q co
0
OU)
4) 2
O~ i
E
a)
a) CO C
C
CD CU O
ca
co
ja a)
L
c:
0
C a)co
a) cu
co O
U) U
a)
Q U O
C C 3:
C
2.
0- 0. 2 a)
a)
O C L
C R
C
U
AO
O
Q 0 N -co 3
O
U
0 a)
ca
f0 0
a) O~ O) - CD OO -0 c-aE
caaa~i M 2 a- U)
v rn~-0 L' oca~)
L. y
O V cV 0 N N~ c a) o> C a) Q m
C 0 co L cu C c o
M
Z W
4)
3Q 0 N
r 0
a 20
0
L-
C
a) U) CL
coEO)~,
01 r+ 0 N ca
O N
ccO
Co
co
y C
rn
ca
O U o
s
m
a)
I
cu a
N a)
CD
0
C 0
a a) ~
C a) q
Q a)
cO
N
O1
to
a) L
C
m c ~ - C C C
c a)
N a) - 0
0
O U) N '
O c o
C C 7
D- CD 0
f0 s a O U)
co c O co
V
U) 0
U F O
c
cu
c O ca E 0 C
cn c CL m s
a) 0
u
C a) a)
E a) X C. c U N co 0
O
j O U) C U N
N a~ oE G
C
Q0) ~ CVC~ca
rn~
v v) E N ~ O) o V) a 0 - Mn d . S 4)U • N c0)
M
0
0
0
N
zW
Q
z
O
O
H
U
G~
DC
W
w
O
W
Q
a
N
E 0)
m
c c c m
tLO
a)
c
O N
O O
V co
O a)
U
C U
zF+
H
r Q U NQ L
O 0
a) u) E
O
C
O
a) c/)
a)
O
U_
O
a)
U
2
V
C Q~ C2
O U
O) C L
c a)
N C G
a c
c0
U
E ' Y
to p O
L•
O
tQ to
U
cC
u
3
O
N - 0 U
C
O O
C1 N
L
CO a)
O
U C
V)
CD O
Q
O
L
O i O c O E a)
Q
v ca 0 0 a) Q
0
C U C o
CL 0 o
W
CL
D
c
4)
U)
U) Z3 L o o°
0)
U)
Ln Q)
V F P p U) r
O
FL u m n M E Z
C
U) m p
d O
v
C
O0
O
U
2
U) U
U)
a~
U) O RS
yV
C N U O
o c
Fn cn cp
U) N
U)
4-
m
L
a)
L
C2
to
U)
C
0
C
r
N
R R C _ a U L
iS Q
L
V/ Q
R
O 0 N
5
C
2
4. 1 E a) j
O`
E
O CD p
ai
C U
O
c
O
U
cn
N - O
C 2
O. c O
m
V O 0- C C2 c
c
T U
O a)
Q 0
O U c
m
L-
O•Q
0 o t4
0
N°
O
L
U~
m
c
U
0 U
O
L
Q O
C C
M
d
0 ., A O
V O
d s
m L U)
E
c E M c
0 a) - Z- a) C L O
N U) CD
L
oU m sp c>a
N
E NaC C
s
L.
CL 0
L
C + C
co O
O O o
SY . S
O
o
0
O U
L N
a)
C a)
C2 U)
C2
O O 2 c
O
p 41
r J U U
E
N 7
U
a)
u) Q
a) Ma) C:
O O
V t0 N
r
r
U
C-
N
C
U3
E
r
r'
p N
C:
O) a r
Co
U
r O
U 0
L
U
3V r0-.
O L
N O
QL Q(L6 Q
N
c
O- C N
O m U
0
N N
L
Q
C
d
r
E
A
V L C2
O U
Cl 0)
O O
o-
O V
L
C
O O
U A O L
N V O OC N
o) >
0 a)U)
0
O p
s N c!) s cn cL C/) N W 2 c U) Q Of x
V N
0 a y
L
O
a m 0
O
ci a
o
U z c~
0
0 a W L c6
O L
y v c) a3 F~-y
0) 0
W m
N C
V j 0 ca ~ a) C
p) N L
MR C W v 0 UO~ cC Oo rnD co cn
C O N " p " a N a)
c
O O
0
U O U a) N
mC
N a M
6
0 s~~c a2
a)
caL)S a m- O
co
Ecu
Z V CUd L O U N L
a) a3 O NL
co m
U
a) '
L
O O a)
pN p
L
E
0 0 O r t C1 0
N U U O O O U N n O O
N
C
U L
d a)
E N.- . cc U
L
U V
L
Q)a)
O ca N ca a)
C
9
G a
C
cv
7
a
C
o c
N
x cv
a) U
a)
C d
ez
L
c U Co 0 c
U Q O
0
M 0 z
n
m m
a 7
w O U
L
L V O M p CL E$ j C U L- O M O
3 • 2 L N O U O Q
M
C N NL U i~+ C U
C
N C
R
C V j V
s
cm
O
a)
U Cl
U) Cc - C
J N C N C O C C O
A= N H j a) a) L
N N N w cL >
C
a) 6- 0 Q O rn 0 cn
a, a
v m
co
o00C
C
m 0 0) L'S
M O O U 0 oL
O
O
0
O ( fl
c
C
O
CL
c
G
Q) N M
Q V) 0
C$
0 ( D
U
c C L
E
C
cc a)
p
L
N 0
1)pM
3 C
O O 0)
r - 0 NcLa
C O
ca ;
O N
4- C
a)
o a) o
d O 0
N
CV) N m
0)
0 0 N U
Cl
O 2
OQ L C to
L cn
O U 0 cu
L
m F.. U N V O U) +.:p a)
a
N L
0 rn
V)
a) C C
E
O) cn O
a)Z
N
s
C) V a) C
0
O
c
3
E N
O N U Q N 3
c 0) O A " 0 O . c N ( D
0 ,
F a) O O U
N c C a) C N V
U
O U)
G U
ca 0 0)
t
0
N
2
3 a)
O
0 Co - r cu c6 oO)0 I-
0)
0N~ 0~
CL U
oE -
0
ca) U O
aim
a~ o0 U 0 3:
L) E 0
N
E
c 0
1 -
D r-
a)
1
oca
cu
0E 0:.
5
U U X
a~
Qv
C9
0)
C9
DU)
v o 2 c~
n
a Q U
o
0 0) N-0 w C3
M
0
O
N
w
z
z
2
O
O
U
I~-1
ca
I
w
O
w
Q
a
m o
c
V
N
cU
0
L' O N
N
0
n
c U
C6 c
CO
N N 0
v U O O
C M M a) .
L
M N
0 a)
c
E
U) V
L M
Q =
a)
C
d N N C
Q
3O
aR N
Q
C
0
V Cr a CO a) m
E0 73
co
5 U)
Via)
waw
C L
m t O
t/~ a O T- CV to 12
N
N
L
L~ •L
m
Q
E p
C ~
0-
L
00
O O co U c CL
OT)0
L)
U) D~
a)
1)) C)
y
s
m ca c x
a)
C
cc 0
v
0 - 0
N V M
C
N s a)
OV
d
L
0 LC)
c6 -
A Lr)
t1 a)
V
00 O o + c7
ANN mc~ a CD°o
4) 4)
O L4. 0
A 7
O/~O Y/
L
0
0
4-
0
L
c
d C
C
U 0
to
0
o `
p p U
V
U
0 0)
U
pL
s .
N O
c
a)
0E
p c
M
L• C
M m
N p
C
p
oso
U
0
E
o
a Cc
7
4- 0
a
p) Q N
mo
N
o U)
US
L
w
Z v c~ 0 ad'sc 4)
vi
N
cop
O O
O
s O O
O) o
p O L
co
p 0
20 8
L a)
QL a
V/
U
CA
O a) a)
X - 0
a m
c `
N O s j U
U)
OO a) al
0 c V
a) M C
cp
Ca
N Y O Cc co
o
0 0
E .
a) p
a) a)
s c s to M CL
J E o
ffi
0
4) a)
L Q-
U NE
U 0 i-.
O a) a 0
0
U
a,
0 ( B
C O o N
aU)
c6 a) a)
o
0
c a)
0 J p p
O ` p
p-
EC C CU -C~_-~ 3c p U m
E
o
M
V
cor
C Q)
0 U O L p.
U
ca p
0- 0
L a)O 0 0
s p c
O 0
0O
V
a) N O Co co C c L-
d
M P
U) N
O
U)
i
O
a)
4= O
Q' c C
Q o
U
L
a)
c
Q
a)
O
0 ca
s s
O4. 0
R 7 U N 0 C U) O C QCO)
o
U
O
N
N
z s U V Q
co
2 N a) rn
CD s a) N - p
a) to
Z EN V Q V f0 s$ CO O U) O~ c ( a N
C)
a)
L-
CC a)
0)
C t/ q
U,
c O
Cosa~ N U a) - 0~" y c E L
vi
o N N
j Q M to s
L) 4.-
O
o
Nc w
o
ca w N E
o
v i
V
Z p ' c O A m f8
Q
A
uO
s>
U) 0
A A
p
Q L
a)
O
C)
O N V O E
c V s V c V a)
0 ai
O
a
N a)
a 0_ v
O
O.
E to
p
w _ c U
Q c
ca
O
d
s Q 7
a to m 0
O
a.
u(c C "L
O a) E
of . N
M
O
0
0
N
W
z
Z
O
0
I
w
O
W
Q
a
V
L
N
y
CL 4)
V
L C
1 N
CC
4) H)
L
70
CL C
0
c
co
r0
N
y C n U
N 0 0
Q m 0
t
co m to- N
L Q
EC~
L
V
40
O
0L.
O=y
L)
U)
V s
r
co ~ ~
N v m
c~ v
L V ~Q ( n V
V ~ j y
m
0 L
N
0 N
Y ~
O
s
H) O
0 O n
cu
a 0
0O
3:
a Q: v
cm
c co c
w.
0 co M ( D
m
c c~ L M
P m a n
Q
O 0
M C
m
0
U) ( 0
CD a)
0 u cu 0C/) co
U-
U)
CCD
C
ca o
r M
a s c Of i 0 a`) c0
a
V
Z
L a) 0 V a
a)
a cu
0 0 0
0 0
D o c
C o o
a)
ca : 3
c
ca s=
2
a)
c
Co Co
Q
0
r U
U D cp
E
a) C
N pO
L
m H ns
O
0 u•'° C: a)- am
i
m cc0
0
G~
L
d U N
a)
c)
0 cu O C c
f°
a O M
a
Co co
o o
ca
cQ a m E~a Zi EC co CD h
E scow
co
v
O ca ccc coa
a) M
y C C
ca
V 15 0 co
CD
OaO vto 0~ 3
0 a) v~ c a 2
O V a ac Q a D
CO 0
o 0
a
d 0) co a) OENaNL) wL a)
L =
O
0 v
N
O0
L COo0 c 2
a)
O~
Go c~5
m G r- a0a0 0 •
ML V P
E2
S 0,~
r
O
C a) a U N Q
N
ca L N 7
d O
U) N
crjU
U)
a) a)
R O O 9. T
C
O) a
E w>
c ( 0 a)
N
fl'
U N
R,,Z
N3 Vt U
U
a) O C3) In
co
L
C")
c caca
0 N
O
a)
a 0 X
a) cu
c
pN y~U
r= L a
ca ° ~ 4
N
O
U ( D °
O v) to
U ca"- 0- 0
r 0 O L
L0
CD
U
V
Via)
cc
0w
D - C
C
c cD
U - CL
U)
m cn
C~ O
cra)w
L C
c
O Q 0 U)0 a 0
3
76 ti
N
0w
c Z' ca N 0)0 a) OL
S
O
v ? S Um 0
o awLOO rca~i
D
Oa- o
co c.
po rn amp a
rtr
N 0
0 c r.+
a . L
O' 0> O
L n c
0
0i>
IL
a)
cLU O a) a c9 . S n a
O O
cd 0 U
O a)
a m a 0 co m y
M
O
0
N
W
z
z
a:
O
O
H
H
X
W
w
O
00
o
w
Q
a
V
L
4
fA
N
U
O
C
d N
O
C
C
4)
V t6a`
0
N C N U
dd N
L E O
0, 2CL
o
N
L.
O= y
U N
C/)
r t
N v
C V
Q U
0 N N
L d d
0
N
O N O
O
U O L c
a) O
O
20
U J
c o
V
a) ( p a) 0 CO
N
0
L Co a) E 0 N L
O
La
N
Cl E
Q to
N
O
U O
C
c0
U
a)
C
O
cca
C
O
i
0
a)
C O
O R L 0 42 O ca E
E
cn a)
a) w
o
Z O"0
C
O
C MdZ
a- 3
n
CM OC
ci L i 0m
V0
L
m i L N 00CL
j Co
0
O
a) c4 C U y ca C
U) y U 0 Q
O
O~ x a) -
U)
U) c
m
co
L
DD
Co
c
An 0 a) E
R1 N U a)
4) a 0 V L N
U) O
a)
c6
O O
C a) a) a) c0 O
C
N D s a) O a) L yO C O Co O~ c
CD C9 4) c U Co O r s
N C U Q E n M U y CL
sV. j
O
c 2) - r- 0 p
C C CLN
i N
R
E
D
4--
O S C cu
Q
Co U)
O
O C ffi NC O O r O CU
to
4)
m
v c d o
a0)
a c C- v c m a)
c
o o
v
c ~aa
co U Q 7U
N O N a) . C? E+ O to
O
O
D
U
Q>
m ' d ~
3 pO t-- co
N
U)
i
0 a)
CL
a) co
C c CM
0M N
O
0cB 3
p t0
oo O
C
Oca
L U
M e-
i
O a)O a
O s
s tO
s
O
c to
a)
s p V
N O
O
w
ON
C s
N
d SU U
O
s
N .
V
ca a)
N 3
U Q
N Q O Q C C C p y C
Z s V U
cu
L
o a)
p " O
E U)
7 V C N c9
L
p
O i 0 MC O r OL
CD NQV a)~ C$ r'
O
Ucc
C:
O
U rn
O
Uc UNC~
N
Uc n
G E O c
0
a)
0
ca
O
L
to
a)
0 0 cc
cn
O O
a) U=
y 0 ~ c03
D - C Q
C1 N O
VCl
O V L 7 7 Q Q O O
O U
O C
0 Q
Co
C LL E E Em 0 ~ L cLi"fo cv c~iC
U O
a)
O Q
0 U)
c~a) a) a) V 22 0)
N
a) V O
N
O
0 c CU CL o 4-- C CM a
a)c a) - c
co - 0 U 12 U)
Cl
ca
Q c
ai U m
m
C
c
1)
c 0
a) C
M a)
6)-c M
0 • C
C~ m CL cn
O
o.
co CU
cd s Z
M
0
O
N
W
Z
O
O
X
W
I
o
O
a
W
a
V
I
L
AW
N
Z
N V
v tQ cp N
d tQ ( A
v
z. t°
U)2C
C d
N
L D -
a Q
O
0
C
C
V C
O
N d
D
Z3v N C
NU
CL
U)
I - Q d i
N r-. 2
mE
o C
0
L O=
W
V
U)
E caR -
a N
V C
U L)
y Q
V
N
d O
4)
L N 0 ( a CO
a) of O pQO
co
c V~ v o
oh
o ocm Ov U)
0a)R~ M r
c co qj O S c
s
a cM
cco U) Z5E
L. C~
cy
Cc
o>
co p c cu Z) CL
a) Co
Q Cd Z a~~
u c co
5
1 c
c C 0 o
C
c
Oi v LO
p
01u cooo
w
3 U) N N Nc
c
c U) pB N U O U) N ~
0i a
N
0 o u O- p
m
p 0 Co
L ca ca ) m Op 0-
0 c
4) a) N
L
4 Cif
L
Va3 C. v) N
c r..
I
C
to
L
o
cu a) N
0
ca
U
a)
U
O) E a) co m co
E s
c= p
E t`
c o o
z
C~-
ca
3 '
ccnC6 m
a)
E m o
oN
N
R...
0
co
L O°
o a) -
m
oo
o
Uca) o.
0-
CL= a d c
O 0
Q C U) N c= 3 N °
x a) c N ~
O
0
0
V P
co
D U) 0 co
co c')
P 0) U
N s p ' O)
L
I
to
N c
f8
sN
D C
C~N
u) Co
LL
s
E Co
U OCD in
0
I u)
0
m ~ Z
Aw
N t U
a)
U) j
2
MC
O ~ I p p
G
N
U N V 0 U
O
V L p O Q> o a) V p p V a) a) p~ '
C Q
U ` O
O co V~ - 0 0 U m (N dco u) L
to a) - CL O p co p) N
n a) O) o toN
U) a) O
L I c N U O c C O
O
c
co U U O
O
0O
N~ p
WU N
N 4)
a) U) U)
V N p
L
Z 0 O (6
U)
O
a) L O Q
D
N C.
O
Q
U)
U) 0 a)
p
CL 0
0 0 O O U 42 O m c a) G
s
0 4-: t 0) Q
t
M
O
0
0
N
W
U
Q
O
0
X
W
I
O
w
O
W
Q
L W
d m ? O CO V WC O
L m to N
p
C E L
W
C
t
V a) p
U .
C
m a)
U
n
C
p
o
4--
O
0
0 44)
C O
O
Lo
O
o
L
a) a) m
Co
o
C
U
C CD O
I_
m O L
3
m
E m
co
0) a) C >
L- 0 a) D
C U
a)
a)
O p
a)
p1 E
4+ a) m S 0 U m 4-- C m U C C> j
m a
Z3
o
3 E
C C - L) m ' C
E
u cu O
C
4-
C a) to
E
cc
3C n
a) o
C: U) cc 0 a) 0
0
4)
i
n
I•
co
7
Ti T 1
v1
N C C
L
a) a)
n (
YW
L _
0
C
p C)
ca
O) o
m U
L
4-- U) m 0
ca
E
U)
m a)
0: t CL v m~ M a
L-
ai
0 EN d- D D 3 ma
0 a)
2
ui E
4)
v N~ x s C:
m om Q-m 0 c m a)
Cl
L
L H)
C
d L a)
o
o m cn
u)i
0 m
0 CL
cn U)
0
E-
cn
cn
0 1;-- M EnOU
3
Q d Q s CV 41
U)
a) E
N m Et
O
F ( D u)
a)
0 O a)
p.• 0
C
O s
U
cQ i N
sz ca
L
o 2- o E Y a) o
E
Q
N
L o a) a)
a)
N
a)
C)
O E U
ca
d
u) M
N
D a) m
in ~
o ( U o o
U
Q -
c
0 0 0 C m o °
w > p
0 6
C
0 c E
m t-
N
mCD
a)
V
U) s o N~
o m
rn 3
L
c
L-
4) a) a) cn
3
C C CD Y • L o Ft o
U) Q N
Z
o O
6 E m a)
J UW
c C U) n aa)i a)
L C
Lo 0 co
y 12 m t V- _ 0C m Um iC m
3 M
C m
m
N p
pC
C a) C
0- O)U
O p ( 0
0? L Q m
c m
p
C
m p
O m
a)+~- C
N
C
L~ c
L mo
C
noc
0 o
CL 0-:;=
0 0 a)
m 0 0 > C) Q)m
o
a
O tQ
m L L
o a) W
m 0
0 O- o Q cn r- cn ~ W C LC L
CLm C) 0 C)-
3
O
O
a 3~ E c o CL
O D
a cn
QD s
L:
i O O m L
a)
Q O A O
D
C A
0
J 2 L
E ( D
O
CU U)
C cC ~ > i
v
A
U
c - 0 c
cc C m
a) U)
L 0- L
a
a)
0
C
CU O a
C-5
E
O 3
c a)
F
o
O
to
c
a)
u'
c m m
C
O
0 m~
C a) O C- a) CL
m
0
3:
a) CU cu Co ( a a) U)
0- 0-
L co i
i
0
Q m a) s
m Z.
O Q
m O V-! . L m- O
G~ C>
0
ii(
o
M m
Cma
U
a)v or
a)
4-
C°
U C7
0> a)
g C 2- 0
cn o
0
0
s00 ca a cco>, Q- o E oar
CL O 7
0L
p
N 0
O (
Q 3
Q
mE 9) C4 u L
s
D
p
c co 0)
p
N
3
Co
o
D Q
cC
c
O a) e- a
s
3 M
L s Co
s Q c
0
N
w_ A m j p c
m
m 0
0W
co N R c N
a)
te() m
03 vt5 0 M
N
r C P
Q)
V
z 0)
a) a)
p
CO -
0 m . 5 c 0) 2 3
m om
Q P 0 L F w c - C= O - a) m C t- O ~ cn N a)
O M t0 O
N cl
U
5
CU ~
m O 0 V a) C L
E
ON
P
w t
V
3 c
te 0 0) c m
m
U)) m~ 0ri O a 0 c N E N 0
H
s~ U
O C
O
I- m
o a E
C
y
a)
V U nj
P m
L O1
Q C
O-
O
Cn -
w A• C - 0
C cn
7 a)
v-
O
C L
3 C: 3 O C
c am"
0 0 E
Eo
m0 C7' Lm Uc 0 L UE C°°
N O O
L n O- u) N ?
a) a)
m D C L
O) a)4
V
f-
a)
a) w
2 00)
CM
H
m
c6
O) L
0
U
S
V
r
C4
a)QL o E m o
D
CC
m
U
O 0
0
0m~0 0cm
D
a) 2
m a) O
v CcCoO
0
c
o
O a) O
U E a
a) m
W ( o cd s Q U
m
C
o
e
d:
L
ci ( CU °
rn
0 Er USc U)
M
O
O
0
N
W
U
z
O
O
U
X
W
I
w
O
W
Q
a
CO)
E a)
0 O
cu
3
L L
E n
0C6
CU
c a)
U)
E
c C
o o Q CD
aU
C
m
L
N
a)
a)
CY
C
o
mW m
a)° 5
to
a)
c~u
to
0
p to
4:
ca 0 CD C:
O
mm a) Coo
L Q]
Q
CD CL
3~ E
co
L
OO J
a)
L CD ~G
3
to
m D3 u
C to L
2- 0 ( D N O E
t o 0
r0n
C
O
L3> N 00 to a) L
YI A
a
V L) to of
to
o cn O Q
t.) to
0 L
tow
V d v0)
0 4-- O
c\l
cu
a)
N N~ N
a)
O
N 0 70 a)
7
C a) Cu - C O.
L0
to
a)
C
I
a) o c C O
L
O ~ O
LL
0 ,
W
F ~ ~ n~a
Q y- a)
c 0
N ~ p N
Q) n
3
cu
cn
W
a) a) 0 0
i_
p E
o a) o L
N d
cy E U a) 00_0
L
Q E a)
tocu
i.
L
L N
C L6N
a) 0 0
z3 a)
r- (
n - L
Un 0
C U
7
S
a) Q
0
0
to
a
O
v
0
d
N
CM 0
c
M
L
a
L.
0) M
O r ° N
0
o
L U)
i
L C
Q O
C O p
cn O
C
v-
N
V N
cu 0)
4~ N N Q
c
p
0 E
o Q C
a) o
E
m~ 3 c0
rd Q O
M
cu
4-
L
p p C O
0
a) i C
M
J
L
V
U) a)
t6
C` Q
0
m
5
L M
C0 0
Q CD O
O s a) a)
L
a) C 0
C C
3
a)
t)
E5 > m . ( n
0) a)
L
0 0
r
L 2 to N C Y
Or J L.
w
N Of m Z3 - 0 > E c r
E
O o r
Q
Co p O c~On
L-
CD C R L 3 0
N p N O N Q N N M a)
a;
to
a)to a) O
Q - w3 3
a >
O o y a pO
o p
G M 3 0. a
pD
U) U 0
O
a U) C7
L ca
a co
o
a
m C
U) E cu 0
O
a
o
U ns
N~
C t
c a)
a 0 c O cn A
C ca
L co
a to C C
y"'
L
c to
a) 0 7
N C
0
uj
a)
L
a) a
L
eJ i
cu
cu o o 0 •r- cv
O cc
c
o L) c
a)
N. C
vi
L
c a o
N
CD
0)
f°
cu o
o
o
C9 c
R L
r
O a) N O O ( n
0
0
tna i
c oc
C 7
a) C
cu M O 2
0x
O
c
cu
rm a o
CD o 0
to
o Q; N ms mM o o
O
n
L '
C
d i a ui c c cu Z
N
o
C 0
p
C
C:
OE C
a~+ ~ v
o
U Q o.~ 0~ co a) coQ oo~
tn LL c6
cuc o
C
L
Q a t0 cu
c
a) to to
cu. U
to
C
t~ N
0 OO
co
a) t tn0
CO) L
N
ca O
Q) o c Q
N
o
a
L a)
a
a)
EL '
0
1 0L o 5
cc E N
n co cu
C '
a a)
0- ( D
0 0
co ca
C C
0
C
a)
co A U~
C
r
Cc
0. 2
C
cu
C a)
O C a)
O
rte; m Oa) z cu c ~ E a) cu cu L
a~ O N t0~ c-) v0)
a) co
0
c 0 S co 0) N U cu c 3 U) cm -0 3 m
a
C P
co
a)
0
U Y N Q
u
a) N
L
Q)
3 0
G 7 Q O a) N a)
C w
p C
A
C
L a) C
0
L
O O
m 0
M C
U QE
0 cc E
V 0) cu N C 7c i7)a) to
F- E P
O
a)
cn U)
a)q
D
c O
u
0 0 U a) a) a) L to a C Co fu
0
C-
0 c
L fu L O U C
a) co O c 0
p
cu c
t V
U
O
E
cu co
U)
7 s o c a
Cl)
E t
N cn N 0 0
0 cu F- r C 0 O u UD cli o
L
Ac U Qfu u) E a)s U$ A0) ° V O
C
0 U a U)
co
0 a)a- C-
a) O c
0 0) N a) cC
0Co 0
a) _
p D a) > cu
0
C
N 7 a- C U ' U co ca
H M
30 Q cc H rm E cts
cu
cu d
0 i>
O
ca
E LNCo cLu S O
a
U)
U
C
U
N
N fu
O to
C a)
C
a) V
O
a)
O
C L
0 c
a)
O
cm a
C L o a)
cd m.. oU- m
a)
cia a
c N
y co c
0
a co Q- a)
a)
c 0 tn -
M
O
0
0
N
w
z
9
O
O
E-~
U
W
I
o
w
O
N
W
Q
a
L-
o Q)
m 0
aD
0 0
o
m
Ep
X- N C
C p
D
C/) O
s]
O ca
UUC
X
U
0
m a) O
0 U
0)
U
a)
L
O
O C m CL
c
N 3
m c
co
O a
a~
m
Q O
U
i
O
D
0 cm m
U O o- O _
r_
cn
7
U
to
CD
m
C O) to
E CC
F)
U
m
En
p 0 0
O C L
ca '
a) 3 0
C
4+ co O U) a) Q) N Q) Oa
X
C
0
4- U
O( D U
U
a) c
cU
U
N
V O
CL
O
C60 0
Ca C) a
IL C t
O
O ( a c O C
0 0 U) m N
L t
3
C Q)
t4 a)
CU O
E cn
O
C
ca >
E
c0
p) " a a V
M
d
Y_
0
a) c
N 6 O m 0
U C
C) Q)
N
y
Q) Fn CL CM
c
cm
a
3
N
N Nj
CYU N x
a) mm
m0)
m ~a Fn
c . j L
D NE
Ui
B
CL
Ld Q)
0
a
0
o CD a)0- o CD m
d Q CV
0)
p) Y i Z3 m a) a) CO
m
cn
E
3 N0U) CD
E
O
mcca cO
6
up
O
1
E
c
L
0)
a m
C)
a
O /
Y
N ( C Co
U
O
O m N m
n
c
a)o
OU
Q) `
a)
U) •
mC Z3m._o L U
U
D
CS
a-
E
L
ca
3
ai
d
N o
N C p
m~ E C/2 L E (
D C ' ca
s
a M a O
o
cn O N m
E
c to
O N O
3
p
c
O
c C
J
L
X
m
C
3
C
N
U
0 N U
c a to
W
C O ( U co N U M O O) N 0 0 N 3
y r Z3 - 0 Lo
E
a)
t! U) 0 CD ca Lo C
O M LO
m a)
1: Uj
tQ 0
0
D j
0 N c 0 N Q~ E N C N
o c
c N
o. 0~ Q3> m CL L)i Ympca oc a
m
U a
D= ca - n a m o - o o
d
O
N
a r~ a LnU o - 0 a. Q 23 a w o` LL C~ U a U
L_
t+ N
C
c c
Q O t
4--
0o a) O O
C) N m O
O n
r ( 0 OO
a) c C of> Co
e 3
O c
aao
J a o Q
c o a
pN
a) C
U O N
L
a? L ~ C N
L
a) 0
3 C
a
ca L U. a) a U ( U
I
s U a L 0 U
L
M IL
0 ( D - D a)
M cc ( 1) V)
0- L
ca a)
0 U) w
U) ca
f/ >
m O
N U 0 a OCL C
D a a) a)
N
1
C1 to
a) : c c
a ca a) V
O
E
a) C OO
O
L
a
O L
d O a)
O cca) m s N
cm
M ( U c
U) a) c a E
c
U ca n = n
E a) Co E
S
D
E
M
L U cc
a)
L; " Q
i
to ~ c C
o -F~ 0
Fr
to M
La) Q)
C s p V -p CO
U)
0 N cu C
Q 3
C.
Ea
O O
N
m N 0-
L
a mm,
cvrna)o
o 0~ 0 0
r Oo
s
O C L U
O 4? v
CO:
a)
E> c
a 0 O W
C w
ooc
U U) L
o
L O o
a O N
C
U V V C N a) c 0) U)
G~U):v CN a)
L aL 0) U) a)s
m D
o`~`~ U tea um
Q c 3 P N o u a)
0
y LO V O O U O@ m Q E
Q 0
O
i
p c C
p
V O
E N
U
O- 0 a) O 0-- 5
L
mQ a
m U) Z
m c L U) v N
0
a) m m
0) 0)
v
O m M O N C O~a) p a) E m a) a
3 U N C ( n 0 U
C
a)
A C c
s L to
c c
D CU t5 a) CM E LN O 0
U) O
U) U N N U O N Q U) O V
L
O CO .
C
E N
O L
N . L0
a
L
a) O s N
C6 V L . 2 L O
cu
M
0
a Q) N c a
N( a(a C( a O o cnmcLC cq~ c ca~ E
c o
a c'
Q
v
F' s.~~
L
m a)
oa)~EU) c
rQ
E
3
U
m V
Q
O
o O G
a) a
a to
O
O
m
6
0 m
oCn
Q fn O
Na
N ( a N
o~ aa)o
c c
oa) o
U a) •
L
N
a) O
aca- 0 v 0) ai US ~ O C9m c c~ E CAL 0 c C7
M
0
0
0
N
W
z
O
O
W
I
w
O
M
W
Q
a,
Lo
fn C
U C O
U
E N N
N
V
N
cn n a) N Q)
Co L
ca
CO
y
n
s a)4/
L
O O
C _ 0
t
a)
L
m
U
O
OU O
0
O O
a)
m E a) E
a
m
U
O
C
O N
cn c
cn
V i to U
a)
cm N
O)
m N 0) m m i m s C
G~ 4+ Q)
0
m a OU cn
a
C O m m m a)
H
M 0CJ a a) i
C
a)
D a)
ca a)
s c oN CL
O O
L
O
a O ( a
N C
3cu
a,
0
p
O
D
m
a)
E
C:
m
L . N
C ( D a)
L
a)U
0 m
u? O
c
m
m~
w
O ~r..
O a
n
a)
mcn ca
E
3
a)
t-
EmE 0- 0 a m
DjN d
c
aaZ3
U a
L-
aN~ n a)D a) cEO 0 0
L
Cy 0
u) x
E U
Q
aQ C.-
U
C:
a
C m m
o m
a)
O) 1)
ft-
0 m ~
C C m
d d
Q,^
t CV c m C O ' O a)
L
S co m m Coa
a
O
O
w
L
U)
G1
0 C
Q Q
E
L L C
a) - o O N
L
O
Q]
0 o
O Q) ' O
U
a
co
U
O
L
a
M
E v
C
o
0o 0)
m v7 O
E
O E c a)
c)
CL ( n
a)m U
O
M O a) a)
Q m
a
co
a) L C 42
U
a)
v?
O O
L
C a) _ 0 O
CM M
Q L L
a)
w- N
ami m o
a) o
c U
c
Q a c E
c
m
0
O0 Q ~
N m
3
O
C C a) m
N
C a)
N
O a) L O
Lo
C
L
a) o
O C)
N
o
m
O
J J X
W
c
a)
N
m
C
Co
i
O
E
N
i
N O
m
V f:
Q
U
O t[} Lf
D
a) u
0
to u N
3
p N m N N N
O O O N
a) a) N N
O c O - L O A L
m 0 L cn >
C O
L U A O A O
L
D L
a) m _
0
O 0).
a) m
U O
cn
U
cn •
co
U U O
a) • O N
u O U a
0_
u a
O-
N
a) a) O
S a
C -
w
O C
n. w
0
a w
n O X a
e a w 12 m
O
a
X L
w a
O
y cn
O
a n
t
U)
L
cn ca
N`~ m c m a) O m L U
C
a) Co N(D a N Q) C:
C O L coN c O C C a) - O s
U)
O
i7)s 0 ao
a) of
3 m
co
U m0 0a) U)0 ca)
5 U) a) CO c F- 3 U
L
C i N s O
D
a) Q y
Co p 0 W
0
0
m 00 ~C
d
U) a) 0 Co
a d O
c"- z 2) c UZ c
CU
Co
a'
I O
a
E
L-: DCo 0 Q) E "O 8) C md a'
Q
O
J "
s D O
s L
a) CO
s~
Os
to m " a
ca
i
O
m
O
C ( ten
O'
U
m C
Q E
cc
a) 0 0 a) 0 ca
cu Co co U)
on cm
Fr
C ' 0 s` a) O m co u) C
c Od R co O co cA a) O a vcm c
C
N •
A co O O3: O E
a) m O U cmco Q O U s
0
E m
Ed N a)
U
U) 0 n
w
E 0c 1)
c
a) a
m
t C N C O
4
C 7 02 a) 0 0 O a N O m~ O 0
7
C s
EUa)
m
L
Ua)
VM~ E 0 w- a E'~a) E c aai~ ~sc
m
N c~'E c~L
QL
L m m L 0- 0s U a) a) ca cn N m ca
U N C ca C y$ U a):
c°
N O OmO cn a m s cn7
s0U
U)
c a) N
a) a cs_n~-+3 ac v cm aa))s°
w co
cu a)
U) U cBs
U) N OO m- O coo
a)
O a7LL~ O C
a) N CO > w- O
Qa' a) a) a) -~e a) U
ca
t Va 0 U) 0
CO E 0 C" O Nm
0 C U O N C
LL CD
U)co = E
5
T 7- E
a
O c Cc
0 ' a`)
O
U
r 0 C C
a) a) a) a)
O N 0 a) N a) mm c~0
LU
a
m LL OC9
0
x > C
pa) mE"E
0)
a) Na)
0)
a)
L -
Xcnm
0
m
ait
It E
a) 0-
0 E EC
a) 75
c
co
O
Q
O
U
U C O
C7-0
0 0
UF-
O C
0 0
0
a
O a) a) a)p
cd 0~ Ocn0
O m
0 E
m sE
0 U
Q a) O a)
cv0co U
M
0
0
0
N
zw
z
O
O
E-W
1
w
O
W
Q
CIO
U)
c
U
a;
d h
L Z
3 ~ w0 = O
3y d
ce. v
L
4) 4) 0
V N
C
L
c
ct7
Cy J
U) C
L L•
0 tQ
U) 4)
4) r
Q O
C c0
J m m
Q
C
L '
C d
4w >
cc R 0
CL Q
d
iC•-
Q 3 c
r 4
r C
0
CO
V0OQ. Z
0
O
C Q)
t3 ~ ~
m
n
Z3
U
d
M N
i~)
C c
CL.0
U
UC/)
Cl.
Q
a)
U
x
w
C
OIL a
Cl)
o
s co
Q
E N 4?
O ctj O
co
ccy0
P
P
U c")
N P
SUN
v~UU
U)
Od
0
a)
4
E
c 0 cu
o -
L
0 3: o
La) - 0
O
L a)
O E
LL
U y~ U
7 O C
m
C a) C
LOE Lu
Co
U Q~
vi
0
0 0
r-
0)
C
L O
O C
TJ cn p) O)
C
c4
C
O
O
O
0
CB (
D
L
E3
0) -
a)
o
ca
cn
0)
C N
c
Q
o~
CL=
c
O
N
O m U
0 - 0 U
ca
0
U N N E O
Q C O D
O
a
O U C
U E m
o m E
0 0
0- 0
n
U))
0 co -
C o 0 o ~
o E c0 0 E E
0- 0 a)
c
L O ( B N
Q - 0)
cr- ~ . 0 CU
L
c cma)co ca 3
c
co
L
cC 0
d
E
O 5.. c - 0
O
O C C^
a`
O a)
U N c0
a)
v
O O
a) ocEN mo~ o 0 - 0 Ica
0
a)
O
E a)
Cc - C
J ca O
0
0
a) O o
12 0 ( n
E o
O
a cono- C
j
cc a) - 0 n
0
ca U)0
C 0 O
ca
a)
L
E
a)O
U)
O a) a)
CU
a) acid
O a)
a) Q E
Ov-
E
o
0 E ot: 0
0
m a) av a m
0 Oo
0 CL O M
N
C O 0 O
0'
C a) j$ O a)
ob 0 - c E
S
C2 o ~ cU)E SA
U
Q==
L "
O
C
U)
0
Yc
V pU L Oa) C O A V O C O C m
0
0 Q co O. 0 - O C
7 to t~ a) C 0
w
a
U)
m
O
CL
D a) O O
w
L O
m a) ~
0 c6 C ~ O- V A O a) O
c~a cn
C: a)
0 ao0
C LL
N~ c.~~o° U) s~`~
co D - 0
c so
c- 0 0•5 Cccn, eP doom-
cn cnC cn
0 0U O M
M W
O
0
0
O
N ~OLm AC O7`
ca a)
3
cOLL
N L) CU U) 0
a) m L) U)
C N N r - U
a) C
N E~ D
O
C
O
a)a)
L U V) ca
P
U
co U)
O C ( p 0 U
f/) r
v
C C
O 7 c
C O M
L
ON E ( D + U co + s. U) U~ s O~ ~ L s Z)
C O a)
a)
A L
L
O >
0 If U
Q U 7
C
a) cn - 0 " 0 . rn U)
0 a)
Q co ca Q LL
mv rio a DD~c9 6 waa)) ma)0 a cdv- 33
c
O
ca
U
d cnd a~
OR1 U
H
O O
L t C Cl)
Opa-.?
U) >`a~
WCNL- CLa)
d m o t c~i of
4w
U) L i) C C
0E
U) 0 0
L) C/)
U)
Q
L
XCI J L
w
R
L L
O M
d
L
w
C 0~ OC N -
O a) ( a
M a O
0 ' I
IL) - C
C C U O - 0 C
r 2) U)
o cs a) N C cs c Cl) v
c Q- o to
J • ea - C w v" iEo ( avo 3 a'. S o~ N.C NQL
LC ss c ao'i
ca °~
V o. N o ~ c}a E ui v o .
27
eta
cu ~
4) ca~•L r,.LMaa))L~ aNi > 3" 0X - C(1)
L C w+
i
O ( a
0 0
0
0
G L U O
N
co O O O L 70 N w
E
c°
C C) > O O - O' fa ca O a L O N
0 70 4-- U) a) U) C 0
a a) "
fa N . O C a) ' p ca
a
O
d 0 0 C7 _ Y
O U o ca 2- 0 L
o s ~ g- cn N o, E C - co ca ' a
U U Co U O ( a C
d E d aQ) ~ cca~ (1) co m~ cu2
a) > C s' C 3 ~ o
oCC - =L ' d • Q. o o
C
Qi a) U)
Eo a) L.: mtea) ' E c E s~ wL~~ ~
U
Q C
oo'~ - -- aa- L. oa) oN ca - as > E("'-'= 0(a E
c
ems- a r u~ cj Cy °
a) o a~ c ° ~ rn-° ao) o c~ vQ~'N~ ~
m 4--
U) • NRj N
Q 0) O ' rr C N ( a o co U cA O U 7
C > C
C
E C O s p)
CoC O) ca U C-C c}a O
a) 0) 0) O C
V
w
C 7, C C- C a) 0. L Q- fl
C C N N - ( a cu U)
C°?(o a) 0NN~NC ~~ CEd 0 ~ a~~ vi c=•ca) 0
O U i O o E ' N U
0 m - 0 X U) ( D a)
CpO
N
U L C v
N
A (
n 0
C c oc C- C0 a) - C
V U W N 'X 10 .Q U a) O Co >,.L ' E O O
co U$
0
O U c
m oE_f 0mCa UsZ' E V. L~3 U) 0) caa cn
U'
E - o ca L ( A u) E o E co a) 0 " 4-- a) E O
C a) a) c ' 0 O RS U) O r C N 7 C• O O " O U O-
E
r- cc a O
O -
c U - 7 C ( a
oO N O ' C
L
D
L
O ( a L
6 a)
Cca~ cacCat)0), 0 ca2o° ~ t~~ OQ a)~- a)EO m a) a)0
Q O 0) d ( D
L (-
D
V ( a 0 0 • L ( a E to $
a- U) : 3 0 Cl CL
4) a) a OL ~ N
O U
U
N • O a) > Q _ o o L a) ( a
0- 0 ( a QO > L- 0 U" O L)~ 4. N a ca 0 ' a ca ~' O ca- w 4- 0 . L. s.
U)
C
ca
U
CO
N L
CL : 3N
L
O 0D Ct)
S
C a
p_ C a >
0 stn
x
L C
Q d p t N °
V U)L
d
L
O
E
O
L
E ur
d C O CD
C
4w n
a
L
CY J x
3L i
L4)
d
Q O o C 0
0
C
0
a)
CU
C
C CC
O
0 Co
ca 0 to
CA). y
c
E Y
O
d0 O C
Rf N 0
0 L- N C N U
m
L ( 0
L
Z
C 4) a)Oj
0 3 C NL
a) 0~ 0) o J Z
0:r
8 2 2
a i
cn
Cm C N
0)
c O C
O
a) o L a)0
i s
p~ 0 O a L co u) E a) m O a) c b U Q. Co C
0 0 02 c tC dd
co i
m 0
U)
C t
c
N a) s Uco
0o c 00
cO 5 cc
0~.
0
y L U C 0-
C:C Co A 0N y
4-- O c
c0 O c ( B f0 ( aO sL'
CL d p Q)
c
aiNM
U
s
m
U- C
d E
o N
a))
0
1- 0. 2
C O C C c fn ( B O O C O C - c
w 0- O
L • p Q co O
L N
O O L
N a)
L
ca O N
c N
Q '
b
co
L p a) f0 a 0 3 E
Ox O a) C
Q 3 m c` us ~s U) 0
U)
C
y
a) -
c c CD L
cm a)
O 0
Z
mp " U
L) ~~T O C 3 0) 0) 0) co
c ca
r
c
C0) O 0 5 a: 2 - 0 2: O Co a) O O a)
N
r
o
C N j 0 co .N 4)) c
O
o
U
E co to
o " O C
C
O C~ O 3 O~ o$
Z
O U) >
0 0 ip a) c 0
E
0 0 - p N C
0
0U)
0 D
0
Co M
3 c cu
C:
CD a
Co
a) a) 0 0N
r'
M
cB a u
N
a)
N
m 0
to a) N O E
CL,
to N p
o
r
vM
UN L >,to a) N
C
O Qis
N
C A>' V
C co
N
S s(n a)
U U 0S O 0 C
E c ~
O
O C. a) m H U
V U
O
O
O U
U 0
O C CU
L O a c
s
c 0 c py
0 Q 0a) o L am) - `
m
w
c
rn
to C O C
NU
o
cv
U
s
0
O p)
U0a) 0 M.
O co b E
a - 0 O
N a cc
a) O)
7 O
a) -
C
C a)
n . +
a)
U 0
c
U O c ( .
a) a)_
n
wa
c: O O
a)
c
L~
c
S
co
s~ a
E C to O a) O
co c U) L- 0 =
0 M L
C L a) co = c w x w
O
a)
E W
C;;
U- C0) c
C c c~i N
CL a) U a) c 0 a) U p O V U V U 0 - a)
C
a) ca)c> o a
o aoi o Y) o a)~ o a) cno~ ~a i0 - 0 0U 0 0- 0ma a a 00 a ova. LoLO
0
0
N
w
Az
L4
O
O
U
E-GQ
I
w
O
w
a
U)
C
O
V
U) B M iCDN
4) 3
r. L : 3
O O
Cl
O = p a ~ }
m N
aLm
G) a) 0 s cv
O 10 E
ta~ oa~Q
Q
Y J X
W
G~ ~ ea
3L L
e~
S
a/ + U O
O c
D
ca 3:
a)
cn
C w+
O.
0 m
s
s
O
0 D( ao co
c : 3 ca
L
E
N
s
J
3
0- 0, o 0- 2 c N$ s 3 0
co
0~ N 1) o
O O
7 C
D-0 U)
E c~
U)
c - c c
as a) C o L
v . Ca N O ( D c
C a m 0
ca
E N E s 0O
c O~ ~
O O
C
a cli m
Q c
CU
m" a)
W a)
N~ a)
j
0 L L ~
CO
O s
ca 0
a
O~
0 0
O E
s~
a~i $ 2cam o
p E o .
2Q C()
o E..~. > E$
0
W C
G N U U
O
c CL a) Q CD O
V)
u0O 0 E - 0
O> s a)
L L 0 c U c s U ~
i w
N ( 0 N O O O ca Y
m
o 0 . 0405 a) ac"a a) c o ~ x
U U
L a) 0 ~
EL . C
L
Z 6
E co
C ca $ 3 co
CD
c
0-- U C N"
a i
s~ L U i
Q
Q.
a) c O cD
ca
0) a) ca E
a) 0N a O - p ' O _c _ cm o Q - C N- 0 0a)
O O
0) 0
R 0 5 Q
c C O)
C: C:O
L- C O CO a) C N 1- 0 Oo0
a p E a)
r ~
U U D O V c p N p •- fn0 0
00 E
O E O
CD U) nj
co
C
c O
Cn c ca
O C c x
c
ca 0-
c
0= O
c C N
c
P
G
P
c
0 O
m
fa
E
a)
E O
o o E C ' s
O E Eo-
O cN O O ?
o cc
V
c
s c I- - 0
5
cu c N- 0
O
r
O N C O fa
E
0U"
aO a)
n
s s
o
s c c 0
ca caUYsO
c 4-
canca °- E
s
L
N
cc
O
a 15 E CD
Q U Y Nto , a) ca O c
c -
0
tO
a m
v
a)
a a)
on E L) C
v E N
D
0 " O E ca m
0
E~ E'V
V U
C } O O a O O O 0=
S
p c U N p n- c
er
a) o ' c
L
3 Co
O
N
O Q9
U o, c U
a U O O D~.~ U o~ >i
U
d
0 O t
N E o cn 0 TO ca
a'
a3 0
0
j 0cn
o CO Q o N
cnv
c
Cl)
m o o ca a)
O 0 c Q.
a)~0) Es
Za. v~s o
OX00
v•~ ~
Q~ Q
0
C7 0 0 ' N 0)
U 0 a) CD
s
n
U
F' N s
0
s O c cc
ca
v ca V c
0 A
U) X 0 U) O a scn O c
4)
U
Q) ' Fu cu
v, O
a)
a) CU
c
co
O
a
Eca L
3: e
O
O.
O E fa
to U a)
0 O
U rs...
caO p
ca O `
U E- v= E U . t-+
N ca N
d 0 U ~ LL
O
CL
c
a1 L
M
O
O
N
W
z
O
O
H
U
H
W
o
w
O
00
r
W
Q
a
c
O
c~
co
CD cp
to ~ i
d N Q
OU O
L t C Q)
O_ p a }
N Z3
CD 6
4) p cV c
U) L C C
EN V N N
C
U C/) CL
Q
R ~
U J L X
Lu
L
3 s
L
r+
M-
L
7
D
Q) c
Q O OCo p 0C6 U o
U)L
O O E 4=-
N L
Z5
O
J co0~ ai cm o c~ a) ca
a)
o c E a)0
Q ooco o U
i
C oNC1 oc c CL- 0
Xcacao a
C
c a, ( D
Cl) .
4 p- E D N a LLI 7 v E a) s p
p
c~
r m
ac
v a o~ c o m
D 0)
o
U
O N cn
V to U) Q M
a
U) N
a a) a)
L
s L a) s N a)
a) to U) " a E 12
B
O
O N 3 L m
L
Q
a
fa C ca
C: M v
T
Z co O N 5- 0,2 1:O c O c cEL: ' d ' C
o) E7: , w
a V
ma) c Nm
3
cn
3: c
2
CL o
C co
E Q) c v a) -
C
0)
t c y
a) co cam It cua) m N rn
4) C.
cac,~
75
o
e
c c" Q)
y ~ Z
ca a cC
N • R=
c i
N
v 0-
c Q
ca
o
d' a)
o C-
c O A
L a. = 3
CL~ N 0) N
mcV
Q p) 0 E Cw
a) co
caca Z
a)
O N
P
0 CO
N
vUa ioE vi R mcu
i p
0 ~~
NO
Q
L
N
c
Oe-
U)
to i
v-
O O N in
to m
JC
O
L
p=
M a)
A~
a)
caU) C
cn c ca
A:3 0
L
N
m C: m
3
L- L- cm: cz o
L U
U O - C p. )
U)
O co O N 0 0= O
c N
a c
f°~
U N
0
Q cn~jc"~a iN Uv L MU U
o
U 75 o
0 U
c a)
in p c • p N - c
0 0- N e w U a) cB p acn to s
N
F
cn
C
L
O C M 4--
CL
w
c
P
L
D
S
a) 7> 7 E N
O
o c- E
CL0
a)
O
U) U"
U
N
L
CD
3
N 1
N o C7
U Ew
N
U N. p
c s
Y
c
Qa)
a a) > Q o
Q>' Q-6
a) f/1
Q LL m Q
m
ci
x? 5O'c
a) a a- - 0 0.
co
c
m
O
d
a) cv
o - o
c
a) co
na) E+~
E W o m
M
0
0
0
N
z
Z
O
O
H
U
GG
W
I
w
O
ON
W
a
C C
Q) p
Y C
i O
U)
a)
C-)
cc 0 C)
Cn Q) cn D a)N CU
N fQ >
a) - 0
a) 0 N
tC O
O O
C cB cD
C E
d
1- 0 tcnnU m N 0 c
a) ca E E
0
C) E
a)
a) CD
N
CYG.
L C - CD
O
m n t
y D
O
3 O
o
cn
O
cn 0 3 4r
v r t a) c CD
a)
O X
O
W
v
CL 0 0) C: ( D
c
C N
3 G~
d
i
U >
A CL M
0
co
C a)
cn
O C6 E
O
d
G c
CJ i s W
ca
E
0 a) M
0
io 0_ O X O E O O
E N O
Gs O t a
L
N cn
m O C cn
O 1,
C cn
o
v
c- L
0 a) 3 1)
L
L Q. r U) C6 T - 0 Q O a)
d
C y C m - a E a) Q E C - o a) a)
ca
L
W R{ U m
0
ui
U)
o m o C
C:
m
C
o
N
C
E
EEz
o
L
m
o o c
ca
c
C C
ea t
C
ui
C
a)
0- 0
E
o c
U U M a7
N~
J L-
di
C e- a) U
O a)
N O
a) U
M
a)
a)
O
cn a)
0
i O
a) a
0
a) O
m Oayy
V
rn
N O_0) tlj N C N OO N m
t
o 0
4+ N
a?
N
N L
4~6
V
o C
O
U mCa
a)
L cn O V
a)
a N O V
m uL
V • t O O
0
o
O C
o O O y O U) o O Q
o
O
t9 a CO o- o o- a c a 3 a
a)
m co C7 aL E a
Q p c s N: E
y
a
C N V - P 6IL
O U C
C O
p 7 SE d 5 a)
J
a)
U
co
O O
4)
O
V y s
U)
vC.) Z
ccca
Rf R p
cn
o c
r
OL
a m o
V
4
O O
cc
E
ja) cc
d d~ 3
o
C'l;~
Co ~ 0)
r_ a) a) ca
0,
o
r~_
y
cc a)
a i
Ecmc
c L
O Q)
Co
0 a'
C
c o
a) C
Q CO V Q N Q d j 0
0)L C a)
C O
to
NNcp o U cc~
C H U) O
E V 4 c =
s an c c
o f
ca to W
yW° cc n XVC Cc
H ~ Q d C
0 noooc` aXi
t Q
O f~0 4--
o
m U L- M
aoc
C
cc
4) 0) tp
C
N
N
cas
a)
a- C a)
D M
Cf E L W to Co M
N
N F-o p r
c4 to
oU
V cm
to
2
s
o~ A+ r
UO C o . v
O c p
0A a
a) 2 O
Q=C ca 0
CM
2
M
0
0
0
N
W
u
z
9a
O
O
H
H
Cq
X
W
i
w
O
0
w
a
Q) CY)
4-
O u) ca L3
N
1) _ w_ .
N L cn 0)
O
L-
L
3
cn
O
Sl U)
C:
1)
N M
cu 0 - 0 3 C-) ca
C
E L2
O U)
Q
0
a) 0
CU ( U
O N
0L-
c
O
0 0 a
C
o C N
CU U
Q
N
4+ tU C >
rN r-
CU
L
O
CO C)
U
m : 3
C
C O U) C
WQ
J O 0 0 C N Q)
3 d
0
Q) CM -0
U
O C
L) C/)
O
O
O_
O
cc
CU N
Y
o w
70 C
Q) a M
0
a)
7
o
U ( a
a)
cn
o 3
o
C a Q) cc C0
O
L U o co o
4-
o
U
ca
L
C 7
d1 O
i
N 0
UCo
0)
o
U) c D L-
N
V
L C
Q) L
to N
U CU
O) C C
U)
O
N
J Wd T3 O
V Q) O C
CCS
C U O
c
O U Cn
O V 0 d
C
N o OU o} U O
It
O- 0
CL
2
OE(
SIL
Eo
0 p)
a3)m
d
m
N O
r a
U
D
Q
o 0
Q
0
O
0 C
Q 0
C U) r p
U
C
CD L
m
L
o 0)
O C
U)
C m c
U
CU) Co
4)W ! Q V Q)
3
O
O V C
Q - a) L 3 V
U
U
0
U)
V
Cf) r
U
O
to
W C
N
a)
N p
L
C 0
U
ryo
t--, Q
0 0 C:) -
0 Fn
J o
0
ca
a) cs7 0
o
U
Um
o 0) c
C) o
O)
0M
o
CO
N o
d 0 0
C:
L)
a)
4
U) , EL L) U) 1) CD
Z c
O
if
C
3 U U M
i N C6
O O
Q (1)
0
N O U L o
N 73 c o o E E o~ E-E oEr
Q
v °3 o o o ci n` m Q a cn
CD ns C~ w a w c~ Li a
O
mQ o
M
J C7 C v
d
c4 c
c
a
QL N U
m E a
L 3 c co
ev oQ)0
C 7 U ~ O
Q E
o cu
N w
7 ~
S C]V
W
d ~
D of
N
U
U
M
O
0
0
N
W
z
z
O
0
C
W
I
o
w
O
00
w
c7
a.
a) a) m
o
a. a co
a
a o 0 0 C
c co
0 a) CD
c o
E
O c cm C
o
C
O
a) Cc
N O
D
c
c
C cad
a - 0 0 U d
n
0 C
CO m cn E o ca
3 o co
CL N
ca
m CD
U a U) 0 ~ L ui N
C= L CD a)U
N ca O O E
M
E2
O
o m o
z v 0
p c O
0s r-
Q
E
Z
U)
L . a
J ~ a C >
CD
Y N co O
a) a)
CD 0
y N m N a 0 A
co O U L
N
N C L
t
M N U U) U
D ! E
N L
O O a a)
d
M
C
C t CO
3
to
D n
a
a)
co
N
0)
y N a R
cn u)
a c s E
3 -
a) Co
O
U) U
a)
C s
to
a)
E C E U
O
3
a)
E O C
U O
C
co
to
a) U)
C
a)
a
O
V
CL M
O
Q) m N
a
C
ul
Q
C L
O
O) O 3
y2 0
O a 7 U
vC
N
N
0-0
a)
E
N
U) C
0
d w O O a)
O
U C 2
ca ca
O
O
O
C
i C
CL
pO ca 4- +
a) 0) 70 a)
O - O
C C
U ( D
U) C
O
cn
CN
tQ E N O uiN Ca i fn
cm ca Co
en
3
i
d,OID
0
U p
i a)
Z O
L a N C a) Q) a U a) C Q M
Y C
V
CO) a) _ OA
M a) O O cri C O M
O N M Q
V O
L V p - T
0Q ca a) >
A
V
F
Q C
N Q
ca 03
o- aO C)
to
N
O
a)
O O C Q o o Q U) a m
a s
O
a
o ca
0
O o O o O a)
a) Q= ca a U co 0 0 a U. N a a E a oQ
Z m
N
M
C C
O A
a)
O
O O
w,w
W ca
75 a) a
L (
a
O U) ca ca D cn
0 D a) 0
4)
C
0
d
C
to O
a: 9 a)
0 C 7 - a a) N .C O C a)
ca ca r- O OCo C
U-
O~.N x
C CU
cc
x70 a) s C
V
IL
NO
a)
N
3 O O
A~ O
ca
N C N E U) ca
D lo CU O" O M C fa
j~ C O
X- 5 0
O M
3
C aa
O
ca a) NN ca O E
E
a) E co
O a)
v
O
O N
C a) CL O U 0
U
Cca
O O
U( D U
U) C
Z CO C a) O caU
2
00
a)
a
3 0)
a ca
cc 0
CL
E w
a)
0 . a U E C
s C L a
O
c ca
0 s+ C ca A - O a) CL j
O
C
0 a)
C O N
cna=, a) ofa)~ mas
s os
o
a) a
o
0
U)
Z a) 0 m 0 C C a) E
3
0
a O
C S Co a) ca 0 w Cca
to a)
c~ E o cn E Ems' = 3 o cowm C ca o N
r 0
O M
a E U .
U
O O
cn ca to
s
v) E
C6Co
b o 0-
a)
0 a) vi
a)
pQ
V N 0 O cn .
N s a) N ccn 0 a 0
N V O
O 7 O a) L N a) s N M a) N O 0
0- U CoV s 4- s ' O ( a U O
N j)
L U
v a) to O a) U s
cn
L
oN
O
O
D
a
C s co c- CC c CO vy)
co > O
V
N)
U O
C
Cl) r= ca
co N
a)N
Q) O
U) C
O
ca - 0
C
a) 0 U
L- C
C
E
O
O 7 O
aQ.p O
tes
0 C M
OO
cn
0 c ca a)
U)
N co
C
U
cc a)
a` Q(a p~ - 0
C 0 a)
O < n O
4-- C s - 0 O-0
N
L- a) r =
U O C.4 ca E° cn a) OC O
a)
ca
a N E 2A to
D 2
r s L a N s a
O 0)
co U
a
V w
a)
N
0 V O a) ' O V cc L
b ' O O r
O CU c o O 0 C O O N
co
O O C a) 0 0
0
O
C9 scaE a ° a~ E IL mas O).~ 3:~ dO.~ r= ca ciN
M
O
0
0
N
W
z
z
Q
O
O
U
I
o
w
O
00
W
Q
a
C
U) 0
0 U) a
L
N ' d U 1)
L 1)
C: cu
Q) m a)
L
0)
c a) Cl)
w
co
a) 5
o a) t 0 L
L
0
C CU O
I_
ECD C - 0
U cn
Q
O C
3 N ' O
C
UO
to
T
m
r- CD
a)
L U
4-
Q 0 a)
CD
w
O
L
U QO C
m
0 m
mCD IP
C O
C C
L
C
n
cmCm
ca
C a) (
o cm " a)
O cm
C
a) a) U
En -
cn
C
C
a) w
C
Q - C
C
n
O
U
i
a) m
U Q E
O m
la
p
3 m
a]C
a)
En
E
cn U) 0 N O) ca C
M - 0
3 ^ a3 r coo N
L
L) (D
M
0 a) U- EEy C))
Q. m a)
O 0
N o( D
0
O C E m
EL
C
Q cn C/) U
a)
c o O E CD
cn L m
O2 N
C
L
C a)
O
cn m
NU
CO N
q
0 O o
U
Z ui m U N cn
N L C
U L
m Q U 0 O i a)
y
a
cvi u°i L CL) ca
Q 3
3 N:~ o L- - E
Q. iE5
00) Q
cu
C
N
M N
d
L°
O L
U a) m L
p u
m
O
C
C
C p
U)
CD 2i w
C
U
3
E
G m
t?.
E
E C
LU-
Q C
m a) m
a) OE- U C
C
C
N C
L
N
C
O O
L
a) C a) 1;-- m
U a)
a)
a, C
m Q
0
EN
eC i
O
V 3
cn
O
Ca) C 3 ca
CA C
0m a)
O
o Q
C O
D N
O
0
y2 cn 0 0)
0 Qm
Q c _ 0 -
m
Q E CD
C:
s
m
m
E
m
E
w E C
E a)
Q
p ~
m
L C
m
o
s
p p N 0 U N
U E CM
C: I
a) o
U
Q
w,
C c
O
N rr C to ti C - 0 C 00 N M Q
U) Im
c ~
C
ni U m - ca U) Oa) 0 w O M p
Q Zz
y E M 4- ' M
a
0 a) C
cn m o M Q M Q)C
O
p p
Fa
CO
N L- ( j)
1)
M 70Q V Q V
3
am
L Rf
C N
L) U
mc
V
p
O cu
Cn 2
Z3 0)
n m
2
Q. N} - r- Q-
c
o) cn C
a O0
U 2 Q n or a) CL 0 a m a c s 3 a to o a 2 cdO
Z ~
M 0 a)
O
r
co
n
T-
C cu-0 o
E
m ao
0
cc
0 c0a
a)
0
0
Bd
0
s
a)
Cl)
CU
v
m
c°-0
a)
C
cc
E a)
CC as O r c'
cnc
cn
0 a
L-
U
U)
CU U)fa
a)
U) U)
C 0 3 Lco
a)
E0 D
L
O O ca2 mC s
L ca
a)
O
0= • C L O- : r 7 0O
m
ca O W
n C:
E~ a~
m = O
0 0-
Q
L
v o 0ca m 0
0- 0 0 cc
a 0
co
CLM
0 ( D
U) N o p 2
a)
U
O
0 3: C m O LOU
a) US
X a) >,
m
p O " O
4--
O M 0
L. C CU
0 N
L C
0
CU N- C O a) p a) O N C LL
m
L
C 0 CO N
0)
C O a) m s L m C C 0
O
U
L
0 4)
L.
a a)
j U) 0 ` 5 • L 0 5)
A
C C13 L) -0 ~ ~ m O
U) L a) a N
Q. a3 O m N CUco CO N
0 3 m a) 0 a) $ C - 0 C 7 0
E : 3
O
a)
a) 0 mcnC
0
1 a)
L
a 00
c
C0 0 c m0
C
0 C
m
j o- o
VZ C
o
mN0 C"5
m
cam0- U
Na
0
m`- m C
Z
A to C
M O
a) 0 C U
C
cn
a
a) 0 s
0
5 m 0: R C c O • cn
co p) U -
r- lp
Om Q) w
0- 0 0
U - c~a U
U
cn ma)
Q C
ia
a w
CA
C NV N O E
CU a pa) MM
M E
0) 0) a)
na) O 0 C _ U c
0 a) 0 E a
N U Q"o a) N
a) U s
U
N m
L
U .0 L 0
r >
L
O
m U
m
L > 0
C 0
0- 2
C- U c O y= L O LL
C IV
m
CO 0 a
a)
C L
U) ~ N -0
L
w ~ O L a) 0)
7 a) 0) 3: 0)
U) y -U)
a)
u)
m
O v 0 a) a) Lo 0 C
N O U) ; c
C
C:
C m
7
C
C
0 a) CAS ccaa0-C C CO i 0
cc
Q
ca
N
m
0
O
1)
E
c
m= ca
C
m U)
Q a) O Q O m
C
N
ON
U cT N a)
Ln
C N E C Q m N
mss W: p _ ca
a) C
U C U Lsa
s m C 0 m O
mom.
m N
C
E
m S~ .0 E
L U
a)
N
U p
O
cn ( D ( a U)
p X E C-
fn O D
a)
C U O
Ua) L a)
L O t
m
N Ju -0 M U m 0 LO a Z a) m v m
p
L° Z to
C
O
L E
s= O cNa0) a CO a Ccn y.+ N ~ S L L CL a) U L
M
O
0
0
N
W
Z
9Z
W
O
0
U
Gq
x
W
o
o
w
O
M
W
a
N
N
ea
L
Z
L ~
O
Z c
M
r
A'
C
W
a
d
N
d
a
D co
C =
a~
y
r. Lo
7E cn
NN Q
O
O °
e~pUC/)
r
C
O
L
O
C
4)
O
C
lC
CL
co
N L
4) N
Z m
L
Q Cis
E
0 -
V
Z
r
C coco
0 N
mU
7 C)
t
V
U
d
G
O
Cm
C
L C .. p
C C
O m
L
O
L~
0 O) C
mc
C L - 0
O c
0 n
a) U
O M- nm0U
a) 4= O
0- 0
L
c
m C C
m
a) U
U j
a
m O
E C
U
U
m
C C
m U
m ~ O c
a)m
to c
a) 0
O a) p Q a)
Q a) E -
U
E U E O O c
A
2. C a
C a) o
L
0 L
a)
C6
0
N j CM
O 0
N C N fqO
D U 70 O) N N p
Co a) a>i
4) m m
a L
a) 0)
a m
Co
s
c0 U co
O - 0 70
O a)
O U)
C E co - 0O
C c
S
t o a)
a)
cU)
w+c-. o
m _
0
m 3 :
3
0QXcn
0
mE0 cn 0 c c s
m
tt a)
mO
cn L
C3-
Ea)
m 0 a
0
E
0
U
p m
0cn
0
a)
C
0) CL
U)
Q)CL
CL cy)
U N
Q)
E. c
C: a) 0 0 ( n
O
0 w 0 p~ c
C: r=
D 4-
U) a)
E c
L U° 6 in a) E m° O_ L°
O L
00
N - O
cn C
N
a)
a) ~ a)
L 0
Q-
a) z 0
0 N
C m
O
U 70
C a) a) O 0 a) O a) O
N
m
3 N 0 N
m O
0)
E n
p M
L- CL > p
Nc
M m a) N
m
M Q m m
2 a U)U
N m 6
Q.~
0 N
L
0 0Z3
cL
U
0 L) U U C U 70 0
C m m Q 0
L-
C 0- 0)
x CD
U m
0 0) W Q U 3 CO 0 t~ D >
O ~ p
LCo
C
L C
CL _ 0 a) O
p a) E
W 0)
O
a) O
0
s LU U0
MC cu cC: a) a
v c
a) 0 U 0 0
a)v
C c
a)
N a) . O
O
a) ca
U
O
cis U
U
46 s
a)
3:
0 DCL U)
rncc
O m6
N m
a~
QD C
m sav)cn vm - C c
a)
s
m
0~~
m
cu- 0O
C" N N C
U p 7 C - O a)
U
U ca =
m p
mC
a)
a N 0
1) O aO An
O
C
LL
0 - 0 D
C
to - 0
a)
a) Q c
c
m U) a)a)
C
Co
m a0
a) r-
N N
m cn v U) aa)j
M rn 5 a) co - 0
cn
a) a)
N
m
s
0 0 cc
a) cn c
cn - C
a) wD
D a)C U
m C `
U 6- 0O
O
N
CUa)a)
ADD c
L
a)
I) O a
L m " O s
m c O a O
a) U) a) O
O
L
m a) A O
C° 5 O O a)
C
0
c
CUm m
C E
C 0 0- 0
Cc - c ) C
LL
0- 0U a) O - 0 OO
m
EOO
a)O > O1U- LL
N
U)( a) p ii
c
N
mm
m N
s ' N A
EL m C m C M
N 0 m NO =
0 - C
O 0 p3: 02O C+ a: s
coLL CO = 3
a) c
U 0 N O
s. U mUs L
c
o
c
U t
c
m
m
L
O N E
0 m a)
0
cn C O U
NL O Q m +
L
O O
X
O
O
U
N
cn a)
C
0
C
U O
aO to O O
C
0 C
CD a)
C
O
0
N
C OO
C U
O O
O) U
C Q
J O]
C •C
a) c c
c
D
En
E cn . c
0
E
O
Ec
0
0 a)
O
L
U
am -
C a)
rmCD C p
O
U
O O
C
0C;--
C E m
O C) Q
c
E
N cn• N
0 -° Q
c m en Q-
4~-- m 9 To- c
0) i 0 E 0
U
M a)
C:
0
0- 0
cn c °
0
L
Q ul
L mm U)
O a) a) a) p
N
c
a)
U cna) C
O C
a) cD E O a)
U •
C m 0
d
m . C
c O U
N
L O
w" Q E LL
D
a) cn cli
cn cn a) 0 N
U
c
m
C
0 L c
a) cn p
O
U N
0 0c C a)
O m
L
U w
L a)
O
U CL
C m
Y
0 U
0
i Z
L A U)
O m to
0 ( L) 3 CU a)
m 01ma)
O
U L
N
a)U)a) c
U L
Z
U C
i- C
L
w.
U
mNC m O a~
U clU camp
U M-0
a)
c4-:
c CL
co .
co O
a a) 0- m
L- : 3
C
L
a) a
n
m.~
Q O
as
c
m°~.
cuv s0) 3
MU)
Coco
v
a)
Qo c Csa m
CL
0 O
cu
cn N
o
Q
3
L) C
m
C L.
a N U O
Q
O O aCU
o
N
Um ja)r
U)
m
a 1)
3 c
a O
U) CU
L O
4--
U
OD)0 CLCU
c 0) 0 N
O
O C C
U
CU O
FL p a cn i s 4-
CO
A a)
U ACU 0)
M
D
4--
C
o) 2 E
L r
E a)
U
s O N N a c
C
L
0) CL
0
C
C L O V N
IL Da) a ma y 6 m0 00- 0
Q CO
a
Q N
C
tC ( B
a Z3
d
y
a t M
N
d
Q o
R O N
COC)
U1=
N E
Z
O
o p
L
0 0 co
a
rt
CD
O
0
O
a)
C
M
V O CL
N
a) 3
N
Q- Q -C
Q
v N
N
Q C ca o 1 N s s+ U v
0
A
a)
U)
v
CL cO CD
ca v
z5 -T 0 - cC
0-
L-
Q0 3: a) a)
4) O
R
C a) o L
Q)
C:v? c
c
a) c
a wUraO
ofa 2-0L C c C E
Q
o
ca - 0 ca Cl) °
C
a
ca o c~ c»
R
C O
o c
N N
L
N O O Q 0
fa 2 0 - 0
4- 0
co) sE O
r2c
a
a)
N a CO N c U O U ca ~ QO C a)
N
N o
L
tll Q' E
0 to
c
s E
cm CL
N O
O
p)
1-
0
O O O OC Q
O U N
CO 0 2. s
0 N N
c
0 t-- 4) = 3 E°
C
N C ~
CO Co 0
E
O
sco
0= a
Q
a~ hm ~ Q~sD E 4-0 - C
4
ca 2
c;,=
cco
ca'
o
caE
C'
L
o
N
O Co N N a c
a N (a a
N
C a) c> N
O
N ca O O
V
N N O
c O O 0 0 a N N O
0 ( L) cr
U m N ( If
Z N C
Co
N
O C N 0 O
ca CL
3 co
v-
C Q
N
a) E C a co ca c c
0 O - 5 c6
N
c
C
0 p 0
co L) Co 0
0 Cl) - 0 . 2 c 0. a) 0 75
O M
cV m a) M Z-
c: N>N O 0> Q, O O
N N
E U C O Z
m
O N
y U s ca
co _
E s
Co Co
o
c
a: N
co - 0
c U O- 0
cn O
N 0 U) C
O W
C' U CU C
0 O
w
U 4 0~
U
L s N c
c 0 i 0 0
Q O f0
U 0 M N,
co a)
0)
c
c o a
O Ot N0 O
N
w to
v a)
p
cu 5
W = M c ca
mE
3 U)
a
c c a
N
0 o
E a ir- - 0 N O
N
4
L "( 1) = ' -
0
s
N N
E
o O m
0
E
0 O
4-- C
0 C
N
s
a
O O
E
O c sLa~
N : 0
caa)
co
c a v~
v
3 Q U
ca
c
a c ca
O
0 Sp C
o
E
m Co
cd
e
a) ca
r c Ecc
o
c u Ec ai aL)
C 0
QC~
m
0). T a)
i CL ( u 4)
X
o o
c
0_ ca. o
c c i
C6vi o~ o o c o N v (
T
C) CU Mo
o >
72
c
E
L
E~ L
s'Ei
m
a~ Q~ m
0- 0
N M - 0 H °
E c
E 2 o
O
a
t 0 a- Q O O c U
v
c t_A S 0 7 O
c c i
O O N
SE
cn CN N Co 4-: Q N m a) co a- ' a to L • F- U N L C a
0
0
N
W
z
z
9
O
O
U
GQ
W
I
w
0
00
w
Q•1
is
Q N
D
C
CL
a)
ZN
y
C L
N
L
Q O
NO O C/)N V
L
N E
Z
L ~
to
O
C
V
0
Z
L-
j)
cc
Cl) C C s
C m a)
0 0
7
C
Q
C a)
Q
ca N
a
a) co U a)
V O O N U)
or o; a 3: 0
U) E
L >
CL ( D
Co
r
a C U) c rn n C L O C
C V)
L)
O
Vn
a
N a)
ca
Lx
co
N p
N
sclN
s
La)
0C
a N
C
c
0
a
C:
d O 0 0. 0
O m= c os Q a) j5 4'( 6
F- Q. a Lo
O 0 c O
U
3 0)
C 1 L
C O
ra) a
O a)
UL0
VZ oc
C`
o a? ca DmCO O U O 4--
7 7
co 0 S a)
O : 2 E
cn a)
p . r
C
O
U
cn N
N 5 ca n N-
5 a) 0
Co ~a a) 6
U
E
E- 0
7 0 1--o N lu :
Ei
o
oOa) A
O
r- C
V
a) O O O
O O O a) Q . .
u cc N csCL
QN 0
o ~
O N
0 - 0 a)
CD O_
co
C6
A ~
a) C a)c s cu a)
c cc
ca 0- 0
0
s 2 c
0 Or
r
2) O
4-3
ca "
fd o
0 Q)
0)
U m
Q) _
0
m 3
CL
CL
ca
CL
CL
w w
M
O
0
O
N
w
u
Q
z
O
O
U
F~
X
W
I
o
O
00
00
W
Q
r~,
O
O o O
co
o a) a) o
cts ( 1) U)
0 70 0
r
O
c
O G > C
C ( Q a) O)
m m'~ Co
0 C L C O Q
O N
Q- C a O° O O
o O O L U -
0 ~ p L
u 4)
d mO n- O L
C m U N m-
o _ 0 C: U) M a)
U U) " o
0
u a) 0 0 >
O c ccaE U) m 0
U) C:
o N ~Q -0 'r-
lC Y
L L
U) O cn C Q
73 i U ~
r m O c
N m a) C
CL E
N Q, *~•O N cn a)
Q c ca o ~ N
o
U Qp ~'• O - cm V
o
a) N LL p- 2 E~
Q ,C
r- Q) CO Ui >
4)r ° oQO c °
U)
o N U)
U
O
o 4-
0 L) -
0 a)
Oa v U)
o~ _ 0 U) o cca-° a) - 0 o L c
Q. to m m N N co p U) m m m a) Q)
o
c - C- C i ~ M13
cn 0
m
c N~ a) cn
L _ - 0 C: °
a) O cn -0 ca
O O~
U) r
cti o
Y.
cfn 3
Q m
C.) N o :3 Z)
4) n.+ t M > ' a)
m Q) N ( 1) a) V U
L
i p E
CL 0
C
S Z N c o Co
t} o M
4) 3 a 4 ca U ui
L U) a) Q C o - 8 - o ( n E c
VZ- p"rnE~ Qt0 ca C: Qua o~
m °
c~ a)po
d_ C-0UCl) oM-p . 2mENm cn~
L
GC c o -,. e C n m a) a) c
C rn m o U m ° c°> a)
O L C a) N 0-- Q) Q 0- 0 a) Q Q E O
0) _ 0
L
N N L N U N m
Q
a) p
Q' N
CD CF)c m
A, a~ ( Q
r
X L C: U
m U
3:Z. CL Q)
t~ _
C
ca
C Gp m 4) ~ M oo Q 0 ' D co- O m N
ca 00
d O o m c 0 O- L
N C.UI r O
3 ch (
La~ Q~ M p O O ch O o M
E O N V O_
Y o Q N U ~ 0 a) 0 o m O~ U U
d a+ . O 0 Q' a Q L H CL U U) Lac O C
U) U J Q) O ' C
Z c; a,'~ O aocm a° Uac~ a° a° wom nc°1a a°
rn w
C Cf t > - a)
0 E a) 4) cu 1.-- a
C O ca c L ° C
N 0-0
i Cd
CO)
C~° ~ o ~ C~ cc
c
00- 0msVd
N tJ c C 0CL .. a) ° a) oco-0° caCLcwy :
tl
d O
i
1a CO
m
O N U E
c a)' - E co
w: a•v a a m co v o co coE o o co o 0) 3: o vi
3 > o amc ~ cc oa) wma?
CU
V- t y> 0o a)
v °
ai m ° m
p a) m~ ' v m a)
C
Lv)
Lo ca~~ N ca . E
a >iLc ac-0o X- 6E:oo
to O m d
o " E
a) r
Q ~ cLa-0 QO C- a) a) E a) n
a
to4)) 0 ~' ta EEu o°°
m ac ` o~°~ Q-mR9 .
0 C
L O d ° a) L L- a) p p
C
U) O : U N
m
NQ E N UO>o sL
U
U n~ O7m a) mp0:=Q
C oC ~ r
c a) ~ c m ~ 6 U) auo E a) o
O=
V
N U N ( a o N 3: D- o 0
m
N
C7 C O N > N c NQQc 0--
to
7 N Q N CU- O c2 • p Q U) cm `a `
O Q a) 0
o pQ
p 0 C M E Lam. a) . 0 . 0 E c
a) UV~ V v
0 .
N m° oa) c= c c a)- (D 2
c >, E N E>
N Q
V U : r N- c U
CL
U C N
m
c j a)
O U ca ~ U) CL
N a) m a).S E 0 c°) E a) QE - co , cuEC) a)
7 o '0
0),Z6 0) Co c
V V
O
N
a) $ Co U
rns Q m c =
c' m
a) cXaE ~ o c E0 ° c` c$ t0 , m ° u) co
L
m E - c Qa)
rn cnp E.. ° Q
Q~ o~ E o o$-6 m m co a-°io ~ a) 0 ~ o r >~
c~ o~aio s° om~N i N
j U
M a) E M ' U m U - Q m a) m e °3 m 7
O O
TO `
C V o ~ c L c in L W- a) m s O
p j p to O O p
o a) • to a) a) > U U
Q)
t9
0)
vU n. co E canca 6- 5 no - 6 aai aciC7'> C7 a) CL US
4) Nv c c~
c
c
E
O
w M
Y N cn (
n
C o a)
E- CLm
c- a) a)
C O)
m E o - a)U C
cn U O c
c c cn 0) L- o
p c o a3 cv c
a) c
U) C:
I- M En ( n CD 0 ( D " 0
O + 3c s~ cm cn
r ca o c aN o6 O c X ca
C/) cn
4+ Q m a) - t
0 • c O a) cn
Q
O a) ca O0 o c c - cn cm
ci
C Q
p M U) ( a fn . C
Z3
Q) c
to Q) a)
CL 0 0) < ' Z- CD ( D
O C C a
C U) C r Ca
L
a) i
D : tf
C: cn
F
Q N Q
O Q O
U 3: Q Q cn - 0
CL d> ca N U) O C
0)E OQ
L-
t
O
C C_ -O O UN~ Q _ N N
c ca
0 / LO_ a^) ~
C a) a)
E
E C:
O :
M
Al
U
C
CD
M Q
L
Q a)
Q C OW . F~ . i. `
L
M U) - 0 M CD
0 cn E Co
0 _ 0 CD ( D
CL ~ c cap c o _ 0 U c c
0 0 O V U
d V U Co Y O a) - 0 U)
V Z ' O m o o o -
C ° s m e c a a) c o
M
G) 70 C/) a3 ° o cn " o cm 0 CO -
Fa
C
L a) U) U Q
U cn
N U O o
L
O6C - ac 0~ ° o ~ o E. oa) UCL
a) Q) E Co
U)
c
C o 2 > 1 ( D
7 c L a) aiM ca Una oO O cc~
i H V ocl an co _ 0 I- p c co If a) cn o E
a
M (
D ' c ao OR c Co s a) DO C) O 00 s c E ao Q
to r y n. M o) Q) Cl) ° ch o c Q
L
0
vi ° U
ch
a)
n o s A o m a) A o M A - M
ca a) a~ U Q a) U Y U) v ° cn v U Q a) a)
V M
m r m O n~ O D O O o v O 5 N, O Q Z3
Z
o 4° 0- a a cn 3 a U) a a IL U can a U) " o o a 5 cn
v, 4 _
U uj O C
0 r- C O s 0 -
per
cp O - 0 U)~~
p
0°~ 0 cam.
cc ~~. c Ncaca a) cnUc cn°-"
ca ca
a) M N M ca a) v C 0 _ M
Y o a) ~ = 3
a) 4)
V d V c C
o_ Z E m a c .- C CU -C M
r
a
M c N cn s V
0=•~~ ov= os Cl)
N CC U) a)
Opp °> a) v~ rnEa)- o3n`.cn~~
v
a~a)
a- cm 0)
Mo . o q)
U°o0 ou) vi o-~a) . a) ca ~ L _ - s
a) ca ca a) , .
cc cn
4) ~ M > v cc Us a cs > L~ cn cn
s
M 40 U) E 5 ( D Ca s a) O
w -
0
mO vE 0 - ccaaEi° - caa)OO
CL u) M>,°'°c_'-°
n
Npd Musw~ c - cn?: a
a)- oE.~ - o~ caQ.ca~
U) 4)
0a~i~ 0=3
t:! c~ E cca°a) M" a)a)~ M C64) cn~
c 0) L
a E s
0E 2~ E'M ~° c- a 4. Eo ccca)~ c`a2~ ooEO£ cn o U c cn • L E p w L
O M
L ca C
c o~ Z3 U ass a) a) Q ID ~ U a) o w N > ° cvi 0 E ~
0 CY)
v O C D co M O U) C
R= A^ U
co ia Q U Q A G)
C C U c a
tea) -
t 0 c 0- 0 a) N Q
p- C c") 0) to
C
N a) p) CL U) ca
p) O
C O C a) Q O ca ca s O
C CU N O a) 0y
3 N 0 a) C N i
O Co O ' 5 ( a N c O O N -
1 0)
lO CO L C O e0. a) Y 0).0 C 7
U
4-- i( a
C -
C
C E O
O a)
d V U
O O C
O Co ~ N M w M O c O co a) L- a) 0 O Y 0= O M -a
c a) a)
V U) a) co c a) U) a 34 c
M _ ~ ~ 0 o - C cn ~ -
0
m m CV) a)= EM °) a~ is a) o'00 oocaoo ~ o~ NCa~c`an
L N LL D-
rr a
L L U a) r -
L C N
L C
Oo
a) s Uocc 0 c~ g-aE ~ mc°) 32 oc'oo ° (
D - 4
N
V U N c 6- 0
0
C O L
3 a) $ ca
cn O C
U
0
C C 0 s
N vE
w - 0
o~° v ~° cN cxoNa) ooCU)O a) U Rf to
i+ - a - N o s ( D= N- 0 O~ -
m O
O~ O C U~ O
H ca U 0 o N
O
M
U) s
U O
c a)
U
Q- N. a S ' Q- a) 0 0
p m
L ° ( D sa) a)v, tmcn •°o- 5 L °~ NU °- E
p . 0) C O a) W ca 0 O 2 N 0
a) O a) 0, 2 7
S Fn U Q N M EL a) i LL o CL fl 0 0 Q. O
a~
s
L
0
d
0
Q
0 4+
CL N
U
M t s z
L. o CL
a~
O i O od-4)
M
dy3= CL0
L Qi rn E U
Z a
0 U
O C
N V
R ~
Z c N ~
C Ql s co
N
a^
U
co c O
tr+
4w -
Q
c
Uc O
0) m
co C ~
CA
N
t0 N
d CL
co co
Ua)
C
N
o
C~ c0 M co
i a)
adV
A
U
C
a 0- 0 C N
C
Co
v
O N C W O a
0
X
a)
V C a co L
r~+ -
r- - 0 co
U 0
fnQ) Cc
0 Na O t ( a a- LO
C a u i0 L) j Q
U)
N a
3
V
d
C
0
N
II
C
o :n 0 C Nca C
U
N U c 3 c
i)
L
r M
U)
O
O
CU
O
0) cn cu o N
C a C
a)
U D L a) co
C 0 0
a
d d
U
w C a N
C
E C
E O U ca
L- DQ
O co
N o
n
CL C13 a)
0
a O
0
j- 0 > cn
co L
cl
H m a)
L a)
a)
LL
LL N
a
a
p O
ca) n
m U O C co O cn
O ~a) a) U w
N
O
C
4) w.
a~
CL V
E o
Co a
C~
U 0
O
C)
O O p
O a)
coax0~
L
AOS °.Ca Cap
C o~ a3 ocn N-O
cn a)
T--
L
o
o
L a)m
aa) cot Q c cn= cn o cow
a) s LQ- L
a)
s
V a) cos O
0 a) s a s co
a) CO ( D C 3 a) E s2
NE - 5 c6 -0
6 0) a)
U O a cn aa))
CL
C
p c o o a) > c0) -0 co
0 : 3 vi
2 N c
0 N Q N Co a)
U
Q)
3 Q Y O j
O U
Q
C 0. 0
d V V N C C O a fo ca
4) °Q) a a,' c
0~
C U
a.
N
U P
U)
co O a) C co
U
L
C 0
CL
co a) Z-- ca
c
D O
C O O"
C
C
i 3
N ca
Co
cn
a
co 11
0
N U .N CU -0 N
C N cu cn
co U N
oL- L-
aC
v U
L- cu
Q N II CL NV i O U j
L--
m
Ct
N co Q
0) U)
C N a 0
le
c6 Y
3
N O° U
p
t a t O L- o '
Ot
to
Vd
D
c
CC
L
Oco
N ! P
m
a L
N
C cn vi
cn• co n
o
i C
3 n
3 4 a
c r co c
Uza m cn c U~~ o°o 0 Qc
a)
xm°)o v
W t or- C
0
0" Q
3
E m 2s o s i ~ a) m
t- rna)
bo
o
16
U(7vL
v 0 4
0 . Uc - a
O
o
IL °
o a)
c
a) a) °
aa)
L o o L ( n C L
w a co U L. L Q U L L U N U a.+ U co ( 1) 7 a
M
O
O
0
N
W
U
Q
z
O
O
H
F-CU
X
W
I
O
w
a
L
d
C
CL
o
Q. N
U
C
L G a
CL d
m
L
cl~N
O O d
c
M c
4) s
L d N E U
U
R
r- 0 CM
M p L.
Li L N V
NN
R 0
Q
Z . O ~ eaN
W
C tm = cC m
N
cv -
0
a
0
go-
C 0 a) Co cn C Co
iO0) C
D
s ( o
c
a) m a)
N N
C O
s
O p
a)
O U
a`)
N
i
0)
cu
a)
N eaM d
a) a)
C
N CU
to N N N
N t E U
N N
cc0
C E O C
L
O. d
L A a 7 C O p C0 L to Q
a N 0 C E O U N
L
R L O L U U U a) C a) Ca j 0 a) N w~ i U V a
F a
U C
a) C
4--
a)
N
D a)
c CoU)
CL
L V
m i Q Q a) g _ M O - O
a, U vL 0 o
O
c o o
0 a
U v
a)
D O
C
a)mV- =
W N
O
N o
O - 0 a)
CC-C a)
t w
c 0) 0 Q a)O j Q U O O
N O
M
C: a C cn 0 U) U)
O a M aD G
a)
N
a m~ N 0 C p a) m
N d d a3
L
N
CU D
p C O
m
L ( p
r-
N
C.) 0)
OC
6 OCD Q
a) Co 0)*- CO O
a) L
L
L
r
s
N
4) Q. V
C
O
6 O
U to
O p
co Q O fa O O cc a)
t' 7 o U
N
0 p
M O Z5 i a) ' cC E p 7 C O s C U U " a
a
C a) C C
C O
V
Z
U
0- _ p CoCO
D - C
fB
O
Q p) C
L a) a)
04--
CO
co p C
Oa)cn - 0
Np
N
0
t 7
O
C
C
N
co
O o
L
O U
m w p 7
ACo
c
O C C C)
o
j C
r
U
L
p
L
2 N N O 0 o
uj p
LE CO
ca
00 E
a)
a F- a
te
u
a) O Q
N
VM
CU ( D 0~ U) - 70 a) E
nCL o
co
U
D
E N
d
N Q
r
cn
N
O N
O0
N U
9
0) 5
N 0 ( D
a O U
a) 0- 0 7
MU a) O Q
co
C L
CO
O
0) ~
U
C
Co
L
S
CO p - 0 NU
p 0r U
t
N O U)
U
r
Q
a) X Q b O
Co
a N
Op
CU N O- a) t2 N
V
N
U
Q
co
O N
u)
O O
C
V
N O
a) N U
O Q
a o
C
C~
co
a)
U a)
ca U C)
N
cc
N
0 0
U) N 0~
a) ca
O
a)
N
A
2) . r C ca ca
ca a ( a o
U a
Com -O
D N
C
a a) C
Q N C -V ss W
N
CD
N cc `e Q
co C
c V N U p
p er
N
cu
N
O . N a) 0'
N N
S L C Rf a) ' C
C a a) CCO
U N C
L N U) ca Q
a) a) °
CO " a co
CO a)
a) C a
L U
a F-
L
a) t
Q L
0 0
a1 U U a)
a) 0
s C
L w. A- ( 0
O
0 p C
a
a3Co
L
i
Q
O
Q.
O ca . o
U
a
o0 a~
CL
c0 N
O i O d
ysa m~d3E ao
L 4) N E U
uz v ) oQ)
co
O L C
N V
ca d
4)00
C)
Z c v) w
4
G 0) cc
4~
CO) s
U)
1.1d L
L
a)
Q
0 A0
0
C
0
cu cc
CL
C:
ca
G) c0 U)
L 4)
O
rt+
O
a
C N N
fi
L
t.
0 4
l1l
N
co
c)
r+
Q. 4)
L
c C m L- aa))
a)o cc
C
0O
Co Y a) O
OO
G1 4J N R i o E O O
0 U)
7
O C ca L
rvo
L
a O Q
ao
U ,
F
o te
L
a)
U)
oor .
2)
Co
Q a)
E - Q ai
CL
U)a
Y
a
ca O
a3i ea o 0) a) n o C a)
CD x
m
c c`a a) a
f~ N C C U OO fa ( a Co 0 U N O N >(
n
cc
U0
c
a) m ca e
ca
W . I.. r
N O O
L
C
E0
C 0
C C - 0
C
O
a)
r
V U)
L
UQ
co dcc
s
d c s
0c
c m a)
0 cr
a)0
U co
co
O C
c ca
C
cn c
cn
U
ca
a
a) - O
v C
C C
L a) a)
c
L U
L a) O a a) Co C a) to Co
o a) cn a) > CD Q)
O
o
r V N
1
U fa M - 0 O a U
V
M C O O
DE E - 00 O O
o N D
C
O N
2:
N
0) C
O
u)
V a)
a m
w E
I
C
0).0
a) N
N a)
0 •
a) a)
0 >
C
ca ca 0
Q
N U
U) a)
3
U
M
C~
O C
L
O
O O o N 0 o
Q-E N
U caO 0) to
a)
ca
0 Q
0
U) caa)
d V U
E a) O O o ca
N
a) > O O to
C
C O
L
U)
r
Q N
ca
C
a)
E Q U
o
Q. OS Qm wi c
Q
cL
O
D.
a)
Li 3
N mN N C7) •fa L
E 0
O
co
L 0 00
c
O N)C
N O
U 0
0
E E
L
U)
s v U U) a) N o U E a) Co 4-U caC
U -
v ca - a)
0 0
U
O aNiL ca ~ C M O COO
a) o~ 0> o U a)
0
tA
L
cu
3: o~
D U Q O to
N a) N N N Q
a
C Q
0 1_ L) D
N ca ccIL u
L
a) M L O
0
Co-0
0 o
a) U
O U
2- 0
O
s
0 0 0 m~
ci
Q Q . N
c
Q a). Q rC.) a cs H O 7 O N r J N M 4 L6 U'
E
o .
F- I w o
a)
m
h-- --
m
0)
O
E ' o
0
C0")
M
O
O
0
N
W
z
0
O
H
U
W
i
w
O
o,
W
Q
a
O
a)
V
5
O
CL
o 4) c
m
ca . o
crQ i
U
CL o
C0 0 L
CL4)
m
L
q)
Q i O 4)
t M dmc, 3= a°
L d N E U
4) Z Cl
0 UeoR
O Q
H V
dt4
CD 00
CD
Z
O .
1. 0
N
r
O
N
O O
O N
a
4- p ca
ca N O p ca to
4--
0
N
O N OCi+
o
0C mco 0 2O N
N
0
C ca
c U)m c
a
H
c
U
E
S o a)
c cu ~
cV
N C
R c a~ C c rn
T
pd a) O
i
s a 0 E
0 a 0 02
ca
o
c
a) c
0o
U p L-
co
d a) E ca 0 N
t' d s
m
N 0 O t8
cc ( 0
V
L.
cc
D
O O Q i
a)
O O Q
E
i 0 3
c N 0 J
ey U
0
ca
CO 0
a)
to 4)
a)
a 0 o a) O
4)
m to d
C
d ca
a)
C
Oc
O O. s , vCL
ca
Q , C
a) E
CL
a)
co O O
a) U
c
U
L
O
t
a)
W O
C.
a) Q)
0 O 4))
j
R
1..
S
U i
Ca) c
C 3
0
0
V 0 co co ccCU 0 t: 0 t
c
CU
a)
D
C C) N c6 vi V Q
0
O 0- 0 E c c a`~a) 0V oa-
ca Cc
c 0 O
C co
i°
0) 5 Cu ca-J
7 ca O~
O
s O
N
O) O
E~
U
OH Ca
3N~ fA
s
a
O R c
VOO) 2 a > Q Cl) n, 6.
0 Q
c
O
2
E
o
V( 0
CO
L-
a) K co er 0 ca n
0
CD m
m U
U)
a)
L- i o y
E
NN
Ca
o
O
c-
s ' m cu
t
co
V
L
U Ch
N
O
a)
to
ca
C
10
t~
a)
j to S QE O
O
ca C L C c
t
O to c
O
O
0O
C
U
v U
C
ca
N 0 w
E N a) LL
U) °
cn>
N a)
c c
cad C p -O C 0
U) '
36
O
U
d U N
a)
Q C> s
a) - 0 U N N O
U ca
0
D
V
t j
U cvIr C O ca c c)
U
4) c M
CN
N- O
U) CD D
U) L- m C
7
a)U U
h a)
N
m
O
ca
v
P L cn
a)
r U p
Q-
C
i a)U
v
Q
t O U
0 v
N
O cO
0 ca
Q) D 0
o
om o v)t 0m O-°O c`a d cd-af))3 ccas C3
m
L
d
0
Q
0 4) O
Q N
N =
U
0 CL
a0>~
m
L . i ~
O O d °
p
N ) d
M
c
4) 4) CL
L. 4 N E
G1 ? C ~ V cn
Q O
G
C
i N V
N
4)
Z 0
o
N
N
y. O N N
U) M O LL a) c
N
rn O Co
C N m~ O ~ E
U L- - c - ga) C ° o a) a) oo CL
0 cu
M a)
C~ M N c ca - ca c
L C co 0
ca L O J - c U pcu w _
j c
U
N C OV a 0- 0
N v
o cEa c`a ° a) c L ~ aNi ca m m a
v
L
IL - a E V5 v
U > O
va) ~ c °
co
3 d
a)
i L U)
U) O -
U ~
U) s ca L -
r- -
C
CU
N N
o c c
v
ca
CL > U) : 3 ca N c O ca N
a1 7 v°i
ca U Z) N U m~ LLLLs° E° 2 a)E >
NQ)
75
N d> N O
C a)
L O N O U
C a) m ( a O to a
L a) to3 4-- a) L0
j2
CO U) .
L( O a) a 0) a) N O_ p ca Q _ CL N N
O E ~ a")i a0i °
0
CO aNi~ °)~s ~ p a)
ss E N
G Ozz a ccaaN
Co ~Co o ~ s 0 ° a.~ mQ ) N 3 a) oin
V C s N O C a) O ' L ~ U O CL U) O - p to U
4?ld = U N U ' O U. U a"' O W N Q o N N ca a)
a)
c: E - s c 0)
c
N C
c
S
7 f0 N N fl
co~ N
ca
C M N> ca
NN a)N
3 N Q cU
N
cU4
N F
U N` ( a C U ca c -
Co ~
7 U)
0 CU 3 U)
o ( 1)
c j=
cu Z
m tOjV~'C vi o s ~0 ~ a ° ° t CU cn - C
Nv rn° = C=
U) ca Co E
4) cn 0O
N E o
c c U
O N
ca
c V ~
S c cL2 cu p c N
as s U o E o QC o.o o `
c
o o L) ~ j a o ~s o
t v U U O
U•`~o ON Ucn u) LLL U U U
4) uNi > ca
U)
U Q>
cn N v
N
N Q
N
0) ( D
U)
E
c U)
O cD O U " O N p ( a U) ( D > > ca _ C a)
c N O N s N 0 ~ c
7 U N 7 0r- co
tp - C a= - C
C
U) ( D
ca c U ca
NOL)
O
C : 3
N L L
s N
t " a U ( a s U c0 ca v N
r- U)
X 0
N s N U N to N N
m (
D
U) i - C
U
0 fa N
N N U~ N E
O c> 0LLLLc p (
D a) a)
N cA p
cn~ ~ E a o
F- O I- N U) ' p N N N a) ca c O O O
o-¢ v~ Q ( 6IxU) 00 6) Q - C ~ UL a. E -~ i U
ev
s
L
w
ev
O
L
Q.
R , O
e2 N
U
O
L O d
CL W
O L o C's
N= tv dM
4) C L
L
N E U
N Z r
o
Rev
ev o
p
LL L ' N V
NN
ev
CO
4)
VZ O
y
H w
O=~'_
w O o
c
C 0.-
LEN
D( L4)4)
L
0 4)4' O C UaFOO O
0
c
a)0 2-
d O ev o Cls cc ( a
m d
o
y 0 4) 0
4
p Ap c
O L N
L
CO N rn
ad'
O
V ti
E a)
Y J ( C
C Off""
V ~
a) C
S CL
ca C
O' N
co
CM a)
p L
N U= O
a
Q 76a E
L V V T- o canp
ca
v DC,),i cn
i N Co C
CoN
0 L)
Q
p
co ca
i vii ;4? a~ a
s v
U _ C.)
N WO N Q N
UO o
ai Oa~ `
c Q
s ca UW
m U s
3 m 3 ui
3 cc ice' ca Ea) c c :
3
L- N
s Q - 0- V o
m
U c c) c
E - 0 a _ 0
C O U
C V m
0
00 O
C
N
m
C
C C a) N a) ( 0
Q O O Q) E O O O ( D ` E
D 0
p d 0 O) U (! J > U C
O O '
S C
U CN CB O C ( L5C C
1C 111 E 6 m
E -OO ( Da) U C ua
E N f6 C6N a
N L- V U - 0. 9 a)p m: 3 C Q E c 0 ° O (
n c
y:r > d - C O O
Q) O
c 114- to 0) CD 0) 0 0
CV tC'i ' s w~ Ea O~ c
d~ ~ ' cat ( B O ~ c U O
O ( 0 L ( SS
E 2 CL
y
t4 C O - 0 Q
O U
O C a
r p E U) d
U+~• c6
L
0
0
a) u) C
UC a) c0 O " a
C
QC a
O C
V o m co
a)
w
E d 0 d C
c c ; m a
o
c Q a)
Q N ~ O '
O U) O s M O ( 6
0 2
45 ~ ~ a) ~ ( D a a) E O a)
c
ca ~
G~ E+~++ 0 N+A+ c ( nom N n~ cn N~ to c c w
3 m a)
4) ( n C Re s O U N
uj
N v
G1 C
v oO
E F O O O m o O
V W c R
v E m cm v~ v a c v a" u a v
E~ ~O
o o ° C: o OD - O o ao o o
C 04- c~ L a a a) ca a E a fn w a U) a a. cn - o a
ea 4- o
C 0 0 70 a)
0 C9 " c Cl) a) v
o 0)C 0 CU - 2 ( 1) U- 0
N
7 c a) L c
rC
0. cc
mE a0ca) 0 cow~~os
U
c
a 0- 0 R c`a ~c ~_ occrnv a~ L~ caEc a. LDCU
c~ aa
c ~ 0 Ema~i~oaa) 0) °- a CL 0aciCo
3 0 N E 0, rn0 o a) ~ o = N acim0a M M o
d L
E
p U -
r O E c a) a)
O a 0
O
U
0 a c ( n a) O>
Z U
O O a) L
p 0
O O a)
N d O
a
O p < v O C=
CL m U) - 0D
N
Z E c~
Qi
C.0O O C
U a).«- O O E"
Off.
T) a) .L Os U
cQE
V
m
V
O
a) 0 -
0
L_
O a) N N t0 ca - O U a O ccpc
ns ~
V N
to cON
C N p
cn _
NQ 0 C U L O a)
O O w) j m E .
r
O s
o a) E U)
O c O E O cN H
C
CL 0 - 5 - a
O) o c Q) a)r- N. Z
UcN
a avi • r. uNic'o~' wm0) >~ c Of)
O U E E >
te=a o 0 0 ~'c
caO o~. a
mQ~ ~ c cam o o
CL r_ _ c c co U a) C) o c
CV)
ca a) Oa O
N • E c- ' O CD
L cOa - ~
ca 3: ca a
O- cCr N
c. c 6 cam E
m
X• os s0 ao ° a) CU : 3
U) Co . 0
c a) c Fn U) U) .- L
L- Co " )
Cc ~ a) oca:3a)- 0? Es - 5~~_ ~ aU
ea U a
D D O a)~ Q ~- o~~~ c~ cEmoo a) ooa)_vd
O O E ~'c
U a) 0)
c
N os 0-0 a) U aCc$0 a) u) 0) cn m 0) cQ
E2 -010 cl co I E2
0 a)0 _ N
a) A s c U ~ ( D ~ a) L
O ~
a
U Q 0)CL
ca 1°E oaci~0 cc-a F~ 0> Q m : 3
C7 ~ U d cd~ u)Ua) ou)-0 - 0 QU ci0a acs - 00_r_
U))
0 a) i
w ~ ' O U1 a)
a)
L
W a) N
C o
O C
C Q)3 U E c cn C ca . L rn
c - o ca c:' o~ c~CD =
Fu - 0 a) ~ U) c ° ' cn c
E 0 L - p O ca CD _
a) o
L
o E ( n C N a`ni
cnt cn a o m
o f -
a a) ca CD
O O U)
C:
E -
0
L a) U C t C C L
r+
m
CL D
O
i
O
O O cn
m CD
U)
O
a)
O ' a is U ~
0 a) O E O
O
CL M : t--
O O
5~
N O C
O o U 0- 0
i0
O
a) O
O
a) " ( D
ca U
If } O a) U) 27 CaCa W C L C7
U L _ 0 N N C
E V U) O ( LaU) a) a) mN
4):: 3 ca C s
m - O C
c
0- LL
N U)
O
rY a - o c cn ca a)- a) c
N L C L cm - 0 C a)
O
C
E V O U
CU C '-- o
co cn
U) -
0 a
O -
0
U) ( M
C'i U) ( D U) O Ca
E
a) O a N M
V o E ( Un M
N
U) L o C U
Q U
4 C
C (n ~ c(n
0
m a
OmE E Q) O . o 0) O c i C U) O ca
O O a) L
O
O O
U N
d C M ca L L O U)
C O
U) >
U)
O= a a) o w O E (
n N O N U UC
Q
N
D~ N ~ E
m
T mM O ~ mL ~~> c` noOv``'= UO - L~- 0 tea) L (
3_ 0 ( D
O a L U N O U L a)
cn
p a) - e- a) N a Q) U Co
aic m v o- v
CU
v Eu) ocacpQ) 0 Q)d
0 ( D 0
L- •
L O ( vj O CV) M O L a O Cl) O M " i U O
N CD
V W i Q c V U N U c OUCV u ca a U C1 U c ( n p
0 L =
O
L ( n ' N- •
E
L 0 : 3 O O U S O a O r o c co O O U O O o c c
L
L
O4- U) U a ° Q. D a ( Y- - 0 z3 co a ~ 0 a ~ a U cD ca U)
O ea o
r- 0 _ 0
Al . L U) c
a)
a) U) ca a)
U) c
a)
NCO U a) Q U
W _ C
N O
Uj cc
C
Q O o
Q Z U) - C C C
LO
d H ca ca p U
Z
a)
U ca U) ca a) O
C L- O U ca ( n
U
a)
4)
a) a
0
p E C a) a)
E - Z6
o a) a) U a - a) L Ca N
map~~ a`ni mecca = N a~~ oo L~-~~ cam
caNm caE om~ Co : 3
73 • 7 9 c O~ O to N a) c o o > c
c
0 Cu
d OL • N aa)i ° U) c - 0 : 3 0 p R) c - Fu ca C _ c
L fa
Z U
L
N
L C -
O (D _ c
c U _
O
CL 0
M
L)
N p V L
4-
O Q O_ N
a) O U co a) N
O
v '
p c
c5 i C
O - 0 U) ( D is A a= U - O O s a > ca
c a)
V c c~ c ca
O - v O U c
oWo~o ~ Co ofa~~>, ~=- CCo
0
tea) a). ccm
O N O
c
O> . L a) U ti U . c Q 7 - Ec ( Q >
C LO ~ E
0
0) -
0 : 3 c
a`) - C a - D a) U - tea)
CL cCj c
Co °
a)
a (
aa) ~ c>
CO o
N
Q)
O~
O rn-
Q 7
N
z C
N
v 0 7 ( n
U - U) U c U E NO OUP ( D 0 O CC s 0> a)
c0 ca a) } O
U E o
VU
L
L o «.()> o LU~ E(n EO Co C
L ca H N CD U ~ ` t O
U
7
O
m O a)
OL O + E a)
U) - c co p C
U O U)
L
a)
c") a a ( a L C 7 a) O U P c 2) U U t - C U o N
t CV
C ) p) s
b
a)
N U
U c U
O U- a)
a) L
L a) U)
C Co
M N~ a ~( n~° a)
a
U0ccos ( nom - nomv U a)
R3 d U m
O s c O
co
a) C: -
Q 0- cn ( n s p a) ca co
co a : 3
d D $ CD c) o~= 3 E c w
i > c
co
0--
o
Ev o.-, = 3 0) c "
ono a)CO 2 a) Co C 0 _ C _ ca
O Q Q L- N~
N a)= 7 >
L 'M
CO ( 0
Q vUi ~C. 5
U
c Fo
m cr N
LO O _ O s V I- U U > U
Ua04- ) N
ca s V
0 a c a) U • O rn0) c o c ca o c C- > ~ v co • Q Qc
Co aia)~ E a cdcu< - 0 CaLLCaa0 0o. r3ca - dcaE a cccn
M
L
w
L
0
U)
0
4-
o a
N
o O N O Q a)
O
O
O 1)
N O
N '
ca - C ~
a)
a a) a)
O
N--i
C a)
Fa
73
a
L
QL
L
C a
N
L
m to
O
co
t~ a) co Q
L
L O
C v
0- p- N RSc U'
co Q) 4-
O 0
0
N O
m Q
O a)
Q) p
co 0 N
LC)
N C
O M C O
C N 73
N U m a
Q O a5 C O O C O U
0 O co
U
u) - -
0 cn
0
C)
N 0 a) 0
CL
LO
IZ-
nn 0)
tC W co CU U
cQ
a _
CD
N U) a)
n
a) a)
O =
a)
C: co Oa) -
O C
O
Z3
a
D
a a)
a) o 2
m
c
Z
Q
co
E
0 F= -0
E E
0
0 N D ( D U)
Cv
M
t
o
E
Co
B
0
U
co C)
O N
0
L a)
N
NM
N L)N
4)
0 " co
O
0 Q)
c
0 a) LO
CD CU
c
I-
3
n
Ci OC
CL c - 0C
a)
M m
Iz
p
C 3 o M 0
U
C
O
N U,
U)
00
0=
OCD 0
p
cn
O O)
nE
0
C
O co N
EE
E
co E
a)
E
m
u)
0
O=
c~ d
V
u) Q c(Dh
73 a
Q)
U) O
c C
C
0
O i OU E
0
0-
cn
NG 0 0
0 m y 0~
0 0
Z FaE
U
0
4-
O . 0 0 0 U 0 ( D
L U : 3 x
D
0
4§ O E E 0 a)
d E N a)~
0 Ln
0 r
o a)
a)
to o° r.- 0 "
U 0
00 0 0
r d =
C-0 O
a iE ~
c i
E L
co
73 a) O
c
j coO a)
Q O M p E M
CO
E 6) M
coO
cn - vi -
N
th L
C
M C u)
tm0
OV W V
a) ~
3
U ~
c)
U
y
U
m
12 N
v
a)c1
m
O
y
a)
3
o 3 a) co cn
O 0
O O
d
o
N~ io
a) O
L
O
Zu) CL
a)
L
O
ZR CL Qou)
O C
a Qco
O
EL
O a)
a Of ow
w O
G 0 d c
OC7~L a m o 0
W ~y O
a)
s a)
Cl)
a ca m o
c a) c
aLO = O N
m
c ca
0o
ca ( j 0)
C
a) C NL
O
0c
O co O NL a)Or= a)
E u fl s AN
N
L
CC
Oc"n o-C cs c
Q~ co S a a)
L a)
a
O C N r cn C a)
a)CO
G. O ' p
c) s =
m O
G
O
CL
T O xU) _ a)
cn
O- C fQ
aka
a t0 C
S
OM L L
L~ 7
0 0
v c
ca E c
v c co
a
w
E o cao a) c Lr a) c
L-.-
o~QF a i om
2
a
E oCD
m
a)
3 - 2 a i
0 0
CD
c(D
E
O N a) 0-, 6
co
Eo
E rn
C
s
a)
pa
Ems,
o a) 0
a
0s
0
a i
U
coa
s-
v a
o
N
E
c o a)
NU)
s
o
tr es
M s oa3 CL a) r_
ca
Q~ 0 E
0 Et:
O
ao ~
0 3 ~ r- m
a)fU
r- 0- 0 DO E r a 0
EW
c
6
a)
Co N
cn O
6
a)°"U
w
Ococ
0) C
m
c.
a) o
O A
C
a)
N0 M
3
cV
O
NN NC 7
0
O N 3
J
0 E . 0 a)
N p QO
O
OE N' c O L) m C Q. O
CL CO U I
Co a 0 a)
c- c `
m
U L 0) tz o 00 m UC N. E C 0) C C Uu7 C U
O C c0 C
0 cns U W
O O U c tm a~ a)
J m p_ Nc O CO c
a) OV U
U
a) a L ( 0 0 a) ' S O E t u)
N
Irtd rnc$m O
a oc O L
C i o
cn u) cmm v
O
0
Co
U
C
m O
C
M
C N
0
0
L n
0 0 E
M CU 0 0
cn u
U
C .
O)
C
O
O O
cn
U c
a 0 m
Co
M U
C 0
0 V U Q N C ( a
CD
L) C
O
ca C tm Z 0 0 EU
C
U O 0 N tCO Na) a . C a) Q 0 C C
to O 0
0
O
O O 7 C c 7 o -
N 0 O 0 a) ~
O Q N+ U
v E 0 N
E L-
U O a) C a L m
0 Lp fQ s (
L N f0 a)- O
7 c4 - 0 C N fn
N N
CL zz c c
7 - C2 C
a) - W 3
O
m c
N
U N a0 D_ a a) V
L 0 Q ca
N
0 L 0 E 0 a) s a C o 0 0 t 0 0 a)
cn N U
3 0
ao c o
0 6 0 a) a 6 LL co S m 0 t- tl E a) 4-: Q O 6 ~ m
O
C
CL)
p
N
o
a)
N r_
to O~
N
a)
3
to
O
W O_
o
O N
c
L
O U O
0 O ~ S
N
O a) tB C Q X 0
a)
s o
Q a) 3 a)~ U
U
0
cn U)
ca
o CD o CO
o a
Es 0
Q
p
c
a) 6
t=
L to
to a)
i- X
o - M 0
a) w
co
CL O 0
O
L
a) RS O
c O L O
X C a)
N
j O a)
cn a F- O T3 N tB w Oto q m
Q)C V n O c0 O N Q U to
N a~ o D E N 0 mC) m~~
O s to 0 C
U
N O Q a)
M to
L
C
CY)
C)
C trs 0 O
Y
r C Q
O Q U EN O
0 a)
N
L a) L
O
CO ~ j
L
N>
4) ! Q t
i O
E L
N~ a
O
te
N
Q04
c0~~ co C: a)
C. ~
Q+.
U
E
U E N c
04
a)
1
D
ca jN O~
4- 0 O O
3 a) a)
L
E
a)a) j
c CO D7
0
0 co
to
O C
V vi
i aa c U) CM
X N (D
E 0 N 0
E a to m c o Q o
d
Q
D0 >
a) E a)
a) D
M
CD 0
O
LO
E CD
O O Q O
C~ E
r ca N
U
N 0
to
N
D-
N
Co
0 U) N
O
O (
n ( 0U
N ON
O 4)
t L to a) a)
3
X O NU
N m o e-
O
Q O O cli C 3
M O 3 M
L-
U c-) c~i N 0 o c M 10 O
om
v V V V to
n
O
D
V
0 CO CO
CO
p 0dC~ LU t
N - - to - U
U
t6
o) ~ O Q)
a n
o
G
O
U a m
o
a
Q o
a
o
F-
u o o
o U a
o X~
0 N
o e~w o
4
Cod,
0U)W
co -
C ~- 0 O s a) z
o
a
O
Nc CL
Ct O
e
LO
O
O
LL ca
U)
V-
M
L jPr Co0 C14a) '
Z Co
D CL
m
a)
a) c
ca) o
3 c
CL
C
G. 5- o
C
m
co
C5E C
O
s
CA V0 coE
to a 0 0O
O coCo
r-
v~ - 0
E
ass C d
a) to O Cn
0= z
D
L
0
nc V
c
me
to
a) a)
to to
O o
o. csU° N
O
D d N U)
7 O U
3
V
O a)LL
d N
C
co
fn U C O
to
om
a
v
to
C
c0
0
L
a)
s O O
U
a) to
C
V 0% t°
0 0 °
V a °
co
Qao mco a) O co
0
a)
oo
E ca
4)
Q) L C
C. O
U
Q?
spr
L O- C
C
N
NN
Z7 N-CV
y
a) >
L
a)
Q
U
ON C
N
M EN
O
J
C
tB 4- L CL
to to
L C M O
CcV
O
to- 0Ea) ~ Ua) U aui3
0
O
a)
aci~o a)
Q
o
cr$
O a) c - p
N C O Z O
to toa)
a)
0
C C
a)
I~ a
Q
7
W
p cn N QO ~O. o~ a) S 0-
UU o': 3 - 0
af') cca
CL c
oa)
0
tUn
ca
c o cm
N
W
v,
L ~ Q N - - C0 0 a) E N a) O to c4 N >
U" O U E
to a) Q C c - co N~ - C
N C~- M3 ~ a)a R M E O Q c 0) C< i( L
M v U 3
U
ca C
3 M m L
N U( Q m L 0 a)
s a) >
0 U
o C
aa)).2u)tn~U a)
3 - 0
3 o m ( L
u)c c~ o E0>
f)
p O a) oc ~• CoQ
O) oac c
1
E U) v v~ oD 0)
uo _ CCL
C
CU UL~ n
4t E sw c rn tna) U° rn c
r
G tU ~ O C to
s C N
0
V c
C ' C
0 a U)
Q 4) - N E :
3
N
a V f0 U Co O0
O N - Q - O - O C 7 aj
ca s V
o
J a) to
D
cn
0
a to E
CU
c " O
L C w Of m m 0 fn 3 w > i m
C
H° V r U N - 5') N M
L
N
N o
c
d N N
O
r O
A'
W
N V.
C
L
o
CL
ca O O C N N
N Ca ~ 2 c6
M N C M O
ON- O N C• W c o IN
C
o ca S o
p ~ C x N cm CD ch
o
l0 O' C
O
D U
M N C .
C C
N
C orn
N N
t
3
X~ O C
O Xo ( n 0 - 0
W N F - 0
C 0
O X a C b a) Q in E cn
O X
O W
L
p fA
N C 6 O
C
R _ 0 m o
O C7 N + S U
N
p
O
O v
ca
E
O p
OQ
O O O - O
N
M Q
cn
OO
L
Cl)
3
U)
i
0)
O
N C N C
O' D
N N N N~ (
a
C)
L coCa
N
O a Q~ C0)
Ca
U
O
U
W V
L 7 C N
C ( aco . - 0,
N L- "
O
M O
C
p
L N p O
N
to a ca
0C fl- C U
N s~
0 ~ UX L
C . E
D.
o
C ca U
Q1 O- 0 F O) OcaO J
L C
U O
ca C
vi
L p CO ' p p
CCQZ)Ucn
pCa
L
x0t
C
B~o a-
0
O
L v
0
y r a;. C d• O to
O N p O O O L p
C t O U C O
0 C"
O Q UO
L- 0
O
U) 0 E
d C
u' O N p O C
LL M
C X O OU
N
U
CD C
fU
N
N
CL Q...
N
O C C N
0-
C'o
Lu r - FC
CD 0 CD
NN-
0
Cn Co
O
C:
L
Ca
Q
O O
G1
0
O
cnXr, Ed
cn L
A LL1
O
mN' C.~
u) N O - p O M N
U) -
4? N N
p 0
C
ca
G tl)
E o
N
O JOc U) Z) 0- a) 0 - 0
co m"
U) m
O
N
n
CO
cn
C
En
to
Q o
O
U 0 U
V w N
U O
CM
QO
N N to E i
O
NJE
LO a) CO
N om- u U - N o
Q ~
p E
O
C`! N O
N
Cy
m
B O O C O o C C p
0
ND " Q ca p
O C L N cn
O •L O 0 0 M C U) ui c Mth
L CO , C.o O Mca
N
cn
O
C
S O
W
C A
C c~6 a~ ° c ( n N= E U
O
C C
L V N- L~- cn a) 2m a)
N N U- N U 0 Q V O Fu Ln v
C! L O O OO 0 0
p E L U) '
CL M fn C d
o cn (. C) O
Q N Ca La fn
L U
O
Q O
Ca d
ca
J
C
C
Q
CL
N
Z
G Q
r- 0
O0
CO
c
L- to OO N
N
N
W
v'
W
0 0- 0 : 3 ca _ 0L
C O O ca - 0 O Q X
V N
C
D
LO r- y 75
N Ca O N Ca c ( a N
N O fa y+
C
O + r
0. p 0~
O O C
s
0
E
O
W
Q
C
O
ca
C rT- L
0) 0 O O1c,N
n
CL C
co O
r N> C to >
U
N v U
c
4) s ~
p O O
3
U Co
O
C
D 0 a)
mt
c
a
a) 0
Q
a)
N
NN 2 Ca
0
U
4
D
4) a 0
D o~cm m0 0 LdE 0
L N
O m
V '
N
ca a Ls p NN LO cn Ca
d
C 0
U N OCO cn CDC C_ O O N Ca
N C:
E O
N
N
O p
cn
C
0 0
U cu
E
N- Q
U)
0
U)
E
0
V) N d O to NC 3
4)cu 5
N 0
Ca US s s t
Q. O
O
U
C O O La
ca E D
L Z L p LO C N
N N
to cn
oWo Lj U)( DU) I a
Ern ( D ~
m~ U
a i N 0 m
0cV
c
oa o ~ ~ caa ~ cL- 0 ~
0
E v E rn`m E
O r
LO
O m
ca
v,
N O
N "a
ca C
L
U O E E ca p ca
CL FL
ca
O
a O
Z
C
E0
L
O
L
O
cn E
O O U C O
0 0U) p - O Q? O
S
C
coU) E
C
N
V E
O
E
E
u) v,N O- p C ( a L
f6 L
Cb > cm
U
to 0 0 :
C:a)
O
U) 0 E
py D O t o p cn ct E N OO
i 0) 3
O
3 0) v
N
O a N
o
3 r
e}
M L
CU
ON N
r C
CEs- Ea)
L
O O
a ) co .- 0
C L
EL
U U
N
N O co NC O O C N C O
Z7 N
U Q
E La s N N 0 O U
O L O
O
O
N
ca
0 O Ca
a a) fa
3
N
LC d U
O
Ocu U> - C
C
C
A
v ? i N toO
0 O
E N OO
C
co U
C
ca Cl) ca
C
c?
0 V N
aE E U D O N 3p Q O) co O ? y z O
a~ vamp
O O
Ln
co ca
XL
a)
v v Q
3
E
C
0
0 0 0 Q C
Q
O N O O ca O C O 0,..- O O O O
CL U ca c o
co
N a
no- a Z ~ ai Q ~ N g 1) Q
U) V
d
Ot C O CD 4--
N~ Ca 4-0 In Ca CO O
N X
n~
C6 vO- O ~ O W a
O
O C
O
r
ca
a
r
r
0 N
r
M
O
0
0
N
W
U
Z
O
O
U
W
W
rn
W
Q
Cs,
L
N CO to M O - 1 0
C) .
X ° o
O
04-
Q)
L
O N
O
N - O
m O 2 O
Cu - r- O Q) L -
E 2
N N N U > N
O
O
C
0 - 5 OU D
O O_ 3 ' a U ( D
a.+ m s cu
Q) 3 L c =
3 N a) > 0
cu co
d
o -
0
Q) 0 ( D a)
o - 0 a c
U' N O
0 LL O LL ( n L-
c w O O
C Q
t QO o cu o° 0
O
C
CO
Ur+ N o f 00 0 cu X _a ( D
t4 Q)
O
C. O X
Co
N _ 0 O L- O O N
N
0 C:
O L
L
cu Q) ( D 7 UQ)
L
C O) L
o N
c
O O O 0 a) ~ ton
t4 111 C C Ca
a C O to U) c6O O
a) ( D N NCL co
c
to L0) : 3 ( D CD
CD D
to
a) E ( D
0 - 0 >
to to O
U) C U
N O O
L L C O c
mot- a - a N ~ N E
N
cn to - O m
C V CC'i o ( 6 C C O N to co N C~
4) 0- 0 m a 00 cu N
U to a) N a)
I a)
E v i~ 0 3 to + J
1
a
L
L : D En C O
Q£
Q
U a) m a) ca CO a) a Q a) cB Ur
a . O a) to fn 0 c ! n U cu co
O a a). a U~ aD C 0
m C f/l u
L
70 p O
O N
U N
N
N to +
O C a) 0 ( 1) o o o - E 0 co : n ( f Q0- U)
QC0N ~ 3L ~ o~ ( nna0 o ca) ~ Q
O 0 Boa 0~ o
0- 0 a)i _
0cn 3 ~ 0
G~ E N
o
m
C.
N (
n ~ M cn 0 c M
O
a) cn M M ONN
N U)
U) c
O U
O L
A a) a) ( D O
V W> y o m o 0 0 v
0
aai v w v~ a v
O E
C) c •
o
E
L. U - ' ca is ' cu a)
cn ~ E _
Oi L ~ o 0 p o~ 0 cu m
e o ai O m O o 0 O N
O
m a c d Q c to d Q E c`o d O ' F CL Of 0- D. U N a Q U
Oca O
Ot7
c ( D
Cm H .0 O c iri
a to v c v M
O • N O N% O
W C
C
a)
r
a O
O
ca
O $
O c N
N
C.~. O U o O L X O N p
rl_
N O O o
3 Co C:)M CL U)
0. p~ R
co
oo c to ( 3)(0
o a) co An CU C:,
cn~ co ~ oU-
P
c vL o o C)} C
ca L
o cuv ~
N~~° LUW cn
O
o co _
o
to 05
c 04Ofd 4) a) O cor~ orF- Co~ NS O ` O 3: (
D a cuo o to a)
OL N O O ~- a N ~ O~ t~ tQ OP OL O
Cf) a) - C
j s. Oa c a) U - a N : 3 CL
4) 0
EU cu U
O O~ c~ 0
N ~~s r (
D 0
co
Co N o a)r t
rn X E o
4- "
a . r P d -
C
U) 0 - 0 CN ( D CL
CZ ( n a) Cc - 0 a) CJ Co ,
cn
C. O i 0~ OU-
O .
OCOt! X a 0
0 (
a OP -'L O C
C E W O_ co
to a) a) j O c N 0 x
W + C%4
c C:
O O
U)
7 O O L L -' L.? Nor N O o O O L
C V cV i a~ Q T to c o - Y v 12 , m o L cu
O O ca " a c
O O
U)
M m a) N
O O
N 0 a) to Co
3 c, o a) co a) 73
O- 3
j
L cc U
OW C) N- O$ o C N=
cu
to
O- a ca o
y C)U ( D E 0) Nc c o c_~
a)
o ~2• c >,
o a) a) m
MOO _ U
N O O L
0( DNt a) X cn 0~-' cn L - 0 N
d L Q a) to +
r
LA
N U O~ i N - 0
Np C O N
CV) a)
0 ( D co a) 0
N a) cu - rn 7" c-
0
O ca
U O
U -
0 C
cu U
O7 s
cc U o c C N-0 ca~ Co
co U)
m o b o cc o- a~ o to
m
p a) ° N c
cu-.
CD a? o cu stn 0C]- o-° : 3 0-0
c ~ v
ac°iL 5 ° O' 0c - D O~~~ s-0 ~ oa) : 3 ~ C0 CD U' co
L E O L o Co
0 - a LO US C) 0 c: .
O 0 a) > a) M
v
O
N co o
u) °
to
Q co a) N . 2 o c
C C) N a>
Q c6CY) _a 4) U)
70
F U) P
W m+~+ So ca m- 0 T- 0 - mrZ) 3: ca 12 V P
i o
w
L
C: 6
E
3 o u; Q
CD
p
N
U O
LQ)
0 X
a)
s cmE aS
p o co
c
c
0
c o
r~
ca
o
E Q n
O
N
a
Q
p
L
cu o
UC
a) N
to O
0 ( D
C
cn
0
W N N
0 d cD 0
0
c
O
cY)d
i
C~ p ca o E
E ( D
N
C ~ 1 J Co
O
Q C
C V c6 N O . O
E v L O c U
E
Q U)
L
iO O 0 a
Oa>CVi v 3
0 Le0 t
v d ca O C
caE
CL G N
O v
0)
D
C
c
J Q)
m co
to
0
M
Q U)
O~'
4) Fa b Ox
LO to
O
U>
L
cm A r N
oi o p O
O~. OC
m~ a C7 CL
C O
0 C7 t0 '
N
O N
c
L
a>
os L L
L
U NW O C
O
U Z N ca A m O
caN
L o
3 co
E o
0
O
a)
r C - W C
co id
Q C
p N 0 0
p
O
sNi OL N
C
a) OO
D
a) LL a)
C: 0)
l
O
map-0 R agi oa o~ cca0 NNVi E(1) oN- o~°a~ ar-
m~
it 4 o C
L Q) ( O
L O
C
0
t0 c N co
C
p N Ca~
a) co m
p A
m
O c L O
w.
0 E U U a)
v
m
O Q)
Q
0 cn
Q~
Co
N O
5
a O
co
O O
7 N L
L N
C C O Q U Cl) p L c p N C 0 U
C c - E Q a)
N
a)
cn
cow
s E U rn • E cT3~ c~
pa) - p
C: a)-p
C
U)
co O
N
Oc
o c°
OXCna)
O
a3 N N
vi
E O
NN mo a a~ v,
j
ter- a) c°$= Cco"= COa~ a~E
0
Vi a?
a. o a? D CO a E 3 co c rn Co co cu
C W 0 O C S O 1 E C
O p X~ c X A . 0 • C t
n CO
t
D
O p O
O O
O . U a) ca 3
O
O
ca N 0 ca O
0
0-
p - p to W
UN
L i a) E o~ c- ao c~ 0c co U- 0 a) c a)
O
o
E cP$ cu aa) o cn ac v a~ o
c° co U'
64 C-)
0 c - C
N LO a) c CC CL a) ( 1) = a) 0 CU -C
O O 0
p
C
U
N
C a) O 0 O A0 0 0U
O O to m C° O U N
c0U ' L O
N
p cu a) O U a) " a N- 0 p 0 O
1C
7 w+
c} 7
0
a)
CF)0 cu O p j
7 to
L L
U a) O O
r N a)
0) U) : 6
1)s c
N ca ' Q c
ca
C
d t N
Q
O
E
O O
D
C O
p
j O Z N 0 X
L
U O N
N
U f~ C
L
N
U
m ( Up rn- -
r
p" U) c in L D
O
U) p ca cc
0)
O
C N E- pa)
C j a) p O _ X
N
a) F N 76
3 0) N
O
CD
N 0
C f0a)
O N
0
D A f6
L
o
U O
0- a(0
0
p
o
u)
5o~
p O ( D
c~ Qa
p p of
C~- c
CM+
E
C
a)
p
c
C
a>
O 2E
lp0 p U)
a
a)
0
C E
X OJ
U
J E U
E .
a) 0
Z a3
co
U 0 wC-Q
U
Q
p
O N 0
N Co
r
L o E L
N C O N O Q
U) ca O N N M > i cu 14 m d ui N U cc N( m ti w 06
M
O
O
0
N
W
z
z_
O
O
H
F~
X
W
I
o
O
O
W
Q
Pr
m
s
ca
m
s
m
CL o
UC
lp LLI
N a
m
V
Q Q
UEO
m M
N
Cd L)
aa0 N
O v % 6-
0
O N
O O
V W ~ i
E C) L O
O ear O
r- 0
O
L
W y m
n = s
y
macro
m
IL o~ s
ms c a
c
p N E o
E
CL
UE W
rU. C
O
v C\
O
i
t0
O Lr~ O
cn
Q
r
Crj
N
U cn
E
O O U a)
D
m' N O o
co
cn
0
m
csi
4
U
ca a)
p
U
cm
N
E
L. o
o
w5
M
O
0
0
N
w
O
0
F-~
as
X
W
i
w
O
w
a
c
a)
0 cn uj cn
a)
E L-L-
v CD . C a a)
m O V i
r c
C
p C
U) cn
CD
0)
a) O
N
cn m (
n
p
a Q
0 CO
0
E0
U
c o
rt=ate) of
3
a) O L
o_
rZ
U)
a a) cn
7 CII p p Q) N py a)
0
c
3CL L-
O C
a) m o N a
E
Fa E
m 3
U) N p c
O
N U Q UO c
0 U) 0- C:
0 Uc L
a)>
0C6
c
U E
n
O M m O
V
W
L =
p
a)
L O
N C
L
F
CO
O
O N
p
0 m
E J U c a)
L
i.
QU R 7 0 O C L
0
O" O
L U
0 0
S N E
U
3M L
N
N 0
V V N
d a)
CO
a) CD iii
O
O
U)
0 O
O
C R E L a a) u) c M U Q
ON im Q cv C om 0Ea~i 3~.E
m M U) 700) D O
r-
p V i r N c M
CO Va)C
t
M
C C Cn W
ON C Q
L
M
C-)
E M O
Cl)
L
M
Ch n
p O)
oa) cYi
O
cm
co E
M
vi c
O Q
C E
Q
V
Q E O
O
a) a) U ~ A
u
p L p
C7 O cc C
Vj
a) O Q) V t L a) V O Q)
L V
O E O v O U > O a e
L H ( ni O E O cU
co C 0 a i- M a 5 W - p a Q
r
m c~ L w Q a) a 2:
G) C c m a) caN
Q - 7
d w
Cn a)
CO N to a)
0- 0
a)
L O
p 3
Oca
d L
a)
L C
oO a)
E C
o ( n
c c
cao
a) O
a O a) L oO 7 p
mm ' O L
a O c
p
W2 0
3
r
ca m o S N C
a) ca
O 7
a) L o M,.- a c
c
d; L
O
R U) U
c m
O
CD a) a
O- C ca > O
c ~
0
v)
O M
U)la
N 4
IL C
Q
r0) c0
a) W-0 a MQ 0)
A+ a E
Q
L.
tl) O
y L N p
4
O0- 0O C p a)c
a` y~ N
N c
n
O
C
101 3 O t O=m 0) E Na) O Cst. c L V o
p 3
C 0_ a) Nn
a
0
d In
Q o
U
o
Q
M C` c
O N
o
C a)
a 0 C Nm 0M Ca -
m c a) E
n > 3: : 3 3:
O a E m o a) t p-O M- 0 a) pU
0 a)
td
L,5 E
p
in
c a)
CO
rA+ c")
3
C:
C p
a) O
v p
p w O N p a)
C N
a) E O C $ N L0) t- c E y c- 0
O U E
4--
O N 0 = 3
0 0 Cw
N
a in U)
M a v p~
N
o' o = 3 E x m
L
O~ Q
o'
v o p a) E a) N
U)c
L-
L
N C 0 i p O m L o
a) 0 N 0 a) w a
O
a ca)
a
Q OL 0
O
U
E L
p o fl-
E NC Q a N
CL
O
O U)
C a O 0 a)
c) C6 c
p p c>
O NO
14
N a)
O U p
O
a
F- F-
0 0
o a)
o
N
N p
r Q a) ca ~ " o
s
M L n 0
U) N s
0 N-0
Cn cn j A C CaN 0 O
U
A a) a c m A
la
O Q l0 w
O
p U@
a E o'
L O U
C7 Lc)
a) O o OC S-
ac nas a
O
a
a) s p C
igLva3so
O
a C C 7
mca
O
a
M
0
0
0
N
W
z
0
O
GQ
X
W
I
M
o_
W
Q
a
c
s
L
ca
U) - 4--
C
D
C
70
a)C O d a) O CY)
U)N p C
oU
C
Lo
ca
a)
m
V
c) ( f
cc
13 O N p O
C
m
cU O C- s L
N
0
L
C M
to U U O
y0, O L
T3
C U)
0 ( 1) N
p C C2
c
c CLc
73
s0 a)
Y
L E
CL co U O
O
O
Q O p
O
3
y+
N C
C
O
N w
i
CL Q
4-
cO E
0
0
U
Nc
cn = 3
Mta
EL cOfLL cn~
c
Co
0 O
os
0~ mM o~ 0)M
p c m 0 EC E
A
v I C:
p O) 0 a o
Ri O M c N E C C p o
c
Z3
O
U
LL3 E
C
0
p - 0
s
O
C
C
a) m
L' NZ a)V of O
Or
O
U
CU)ui
E U ui0-
cm c~
O
a
0 O
CE
y
p- tC
O
to
p
c0
C X
L L1
N
O
0
p E
a) cm
L
Co
O N O O C V m O ° C
o o rn 0 N
a)
m D CD o
C_o_v QaC a) mL tn 0
U-
m o ti Yo,
N O O
0) 6) t. p~o u,
O L .
O•-
s .
O0 D= aa)
N
o. U) L)) aas)o N v notca) c: ca CL a
0
m
cOc~ ci)-0 N C7in c a U) n~'ca a E
c
M U)
ii 7
U)
C L
U)
a) c a) cli a)
cva' O
dt
o o
fns
g
co U)
Q~
v
C(a p
Ls
O m
3a)
W o o$
C
r
L
0
N
a) c c
M
m a) c
w
r
U
CU
L a)
oa)
U O U)
0 a-
sU)
A a->%rc ac-~ co)v N4
N
d a) ' 0)O M C
O O O OQ
E
0) O
O C O U O
N
O
4) 0 D
O
U)
co
N CA a) a)
L_ a _ C
C
X
C U
p " C
ca v
C
a)
N
O
O c a) i
0 E a)
d 7 f0 a) C
CL 050 m O C
oa) C C - C E N
O
O 0
0
d co 0 N
0 E
Cl
0)
Cm c
C
C uj CL
O p
O
CU F= m ~
i C
iQ, O
E_
N _ 4i
L
O
a)
E N
M p
L
C L
a)
O
U
0
N
A
C: a) 4-
1 : 3
r
C Ca) M
a)C O V E s
O
U Z
C O O U sl N CA O to
c
U) O a)
U
O v-0 > Mo a i
0 U) C
0
C V
0 O
0)~
U D) Mn U) a) a) MnO s
U ca 7 CL
0 O U
Cl fL
L U i
1O ` L
V Q
O
O
L
v
Co a)
Co L U) - 0 a, N O
y
O
a)
f6O s 0- 0
N
U O
O
a) O ca a) CD C U)
O w
3 EO
to
U) 0
O C N
3
O O O c" • C
O
O E p
U U
t C f~
N
E a)
O .U a) s m
Q C1 C U a) lS t0
U)
N a) O co 0- 0,CZ -a o
0n - N N 'C C C C
C C) C U) M CL N O O) O s i N
N N a) a) - 0O C: p m
s
C a . c
O O
L
a)
U w m C
O
U O L
U O
L U O
p C
c
s ' E > to L j ( O M C C-)
C rl_ 0-2 m E ao a) 2-.
4--
w L
m •
C n V L) V O
Fn 0
U V C a) V N V D
a
3 2 0 0
0 a U) CLnU~ a w co a m c6L a E O
M
O
0
0
N
u
Z
O
O
H
U
X
W
I
w
O
W
Q
LL
tU
Q. C43
c=
FL ' m
a) Z
Z
4. 0 c M
2 a) ci
N
o
s
C 0 0
N N
7 O
O N
co v
r y-
O
3 O
N
0
m
C
to
C
ai
N
ao
curn
o c
ca
mt
a
cow== co
c
om
o
ui
t3 CO. s
F
O
U O O
Co 0-
V
cn
N
UU) U)
55 " C E ai rna) rn
N 3 0
N
Q O
a) a co 0- a)
E sc o
co 0) coo ~
c
4) oCL
cn c
oQ
L Q
co Z;
Q=G V~ !
Z O
c U
CU C
c
O
L)
O C O O
sc, ooL
O
a) co~O U
U
Bto
4+ CV)
0 ( D - a)
co N L U a)
3 U
C
U)
E
0 D) -a
U
E to
V O
c O p)E• L. AN O
OL
d
O
s
o
cn
O N U
O
a)
cu
CL
Q
r
3
te'
A 3
o s O O oU N
N
O
V
ca 0) O ~
7 O) c O
75 ~
Z _
Y
N
D cUoNU) - D
o~
Oco O N
aoEs> o
O
Us
CO C
FO
O s N I- N c
Qa)
r
0 0
0s
0
E
v N C E
O cl)
c E
O O . C L
O
O cn
O C O U O O
co cn
O U 0
o
0=
IL H~ coUcs a mos rn~
M
O
0
0
N
W
9z
W
O
O
H
W
I
o
O
0
W
Q
a
cn
a°i cu > co U)
U
O
0 U
CO C
ffl U O O
U
L L Q a) co
U
Q a) O
O O_ U L CU
1) a) Q) ( D
a) 0 > C _ Z L
4) ( D
M
Q) cn O O a) 0 vi
0 ~ rn
0
a) t U)
m ° o
a) cn c .
U
c
O) 3U) R > U U) m . O U
0 U
O a «
A C
0
O L CD
0) 70 a) cm
O O ° ~ ND
0 O E L L
4) C d a) c U
N U
N O O U 0 LL O
Q~Q a
V 0 cn } ( n a) U
C 0
c
u a) O m U t6 U
fn M > .
a
to 3
O N
C C
U)
LL -
V C= m U
a)
0~ ( n >
m O :
3 ( D
N a) O
n
L-U _
0 Q
c0 - 0 a) a)
cu m U O 0L~ C N Q U) ` C O c ca c
O O O O O .a a) ( n c: a) ° O -
U) fJ .,S
L. u m a) U c 0
E~ w °
C: 2
cm c 0) m L) QC: D
C:
a) ca 0- 0C) LL LL C) a)
O O L c a)d D
M0 cu o ot/) C, Q. 4) a~ 0 R a
c c
CO - 0
L-
0 ~ > L aim o o
0)
a > 0 4) 0 a)
c
U Fn
4-
0 _ r N 0
0 M E A 0 ~
L co a) 1~
a)CD 0U) t0 c0 00 -
r- cC - 0 cG CO cn
N
0) L + L+ V C6 CC0) m 0) 0
ri c ri = o2 m ~ ri m ( Ii C') It ri sz w ri ~
C:
L r O U O L 0 0 ° Q) ° O cu A 0 C-
0.. 0 = co
CL U O O U ° V Q V V C)-:= 0 C U O
O
0 A-- •
v d C7U) a a° w a° w ~ a° cn a° c0`o a° in 49 a° a° m m
ti~~eca
C C
V ~ p C O cn U 1M
a) cuN O c0 _ C c i
Q 4) - C 0 - C
L-) ( D cu
3
21, L U C N L : 3 0 ( 1) 0
a o cc
va > c
in a) ° 0) o c_ "~5 ca a~ i°o~ a~ia ~r•C C O y U ° a) ~ nmL a) ~: r
N L
X-fl cnL
N(A ~ m
a •U a) s ca° cu cu E L 3
L
coU N t°nQ 4)"
U)
Q) cm CO
C.) c
N N
L >' E Q)~ v°iv p ( D
aa)ir_ c ° Q)0
CO
c°n ca C c= _ . 2Y C
0 Q) a3 0 Cc
w c
cu E CD 0
0- CO L c6 C O
U Y Nca - 0 a) a)
C - 0 cn U M O C cu 0 0 to O U C O_ C a) 0 C 0- 0 c cn 0
L
L
d Q
t
Z
0 U C
A - C
Q. - "L > Q) ca A c c 0°°° c`u cu Q
a) co O E L c
co aS
I- °
a) a) N
N U) : 3 CL U ~ CL a)
Q.Q) O
4)o CLc m aci° ° o
N ° ~
UU
00~~ a)a)° sm° a)a~ aa~~~ a0i>cE>~~ cv
LLEa ) Ca N~ Daa))CM0 0. mN~~E~ ao~~L. w C)
p. r. v ° N~ N C
N
cu -
a) m a
a) N E c°) o
0 °-
c~u ,
Ca
c° c-°(nD 76O
c `
n ~
Z °-0 E r ash
N
0 0
cos ac) o D- ° U> m
o•
0 0 C 0 - C C U) 0) C: ( D Ca a) : 3L a) °
ca
y N ap C 0 O N a) U 0 O
L U O 0
N a)
N
N 0 cu
V c° 0 U w O Q " O C L
O L Z U . U CD
co a) a) L
O
a3 "
a m O
40 U cn a) Z a)
tNc: gy m=o cnN c
Cl)
v naa)) coc,C
CO
Q >
CO CL " = Ca
CL ( D
C CU ~ ~
CO =3
c
c: c
0 c0 a) C.. U Q t O O U ca m(a a) U cu cn
Rf
0
Q N
p C w-
Q D O - c c- C 0 L ca
N
a) n. C
0
cu a)O.
0
0
t- ' C U a O C tm
U ' O 0 0 0 a) w~
0
ca E S
L
O E O°
cu
r _ Q . O c
U U" c to a)
O
w °
EUrn v ~NVNCC
cu a)
a > LcEc~~ acic°~v)~ C) 0cu c
0 Y C L- N C ! Z NU)
cc
O ca O X
to ° c a) cn a) u~ r X 0 a) cn C
U cu cn sa m a cu cu 0: 6 - 2 N N to L to co a) U to cC 0 -6
L
to
m
d
N
O
r
N
O
O
N
V
C
N R
0> N
i=
moww,,
W
N Od
D C. ~
O 0
d . 2
I
L
V a
L
Lirv
O G) 3
ac4)Y
ti c - 0 C
CL £
H ~
d
cn
E
l0
Q-
O
Q
d
C
eo
C
a
O
H
N
a)
Q 0L
L
O U - U c
a) j O
E
C642
CD
U N U
L
N
a) U Q
C
7 a) 0 U 0) O CDO
C N c C[S c C2 E
O U O n
R)
O a) cv
CC) U a) a)
U N uj ON
L
U
N
a)
a~ N a) OU 0 O 0)
0M
p ~0 N
x 0 CL
N 0 O N
N
C2 c CO 0) O
O
N c
0 0
i U -
0 ui
C:
o
N
C, u
U
to a)
c Co
E A Ca O
0 M U U E
0 to 0 C N
0
c6
n O
U
0- 0
L N
C
co C4
0 a) ~
N O Q)
U
c c E
Q
M w U= OU O
OUa)
U) U) c U U O
L)
0
M
U
C
a) a) 0
0 CD o
v=
a)
U 0 a)
u i
W
A
TSB
U)
a) c L
0 (
VV
c
j
0 CL
N
0- 0
y L
D
C: M cn
cu
o a) ca
U U
c
Ca CD
c Q)
n a)
D
CD tts
N O U
N O cC) c 0 O
m.
s
n N
c
a o>
U
m a) Q
No, E oZ) a) C : t-- 0 CL E
L
Z
a) 3
L
Q) 0 O L : Z~ cn
a)
a)
c
E M O U E T V N
U O L
C2- 0 M U d
co c a)
c
0 O (D
T D E
u
0
3 0)
T T
cc
O E
CD a) s Cc t0
0) c0 m N
Q M a)
ca s_ m
M L
c CL M M 0) M Q
0) M M O M M
C? L U V a+ V
L
C) 0 U U a V4) N
Ds
s N
O O Q) 0 O 0 O D 0 O X O a) c
N
O Q O
CL U - o o cL z cL cn E a t a) a 0~ o M a cn a
co
a)
U
CLs
CD
c Co
c~
CL_
U
1 LL
N
c ;
d a ~ i
E
O Cu
U r U
Lo
C/)C) ( n
O
U)
0
M
N
CV
c
M - O
C a)
o C
ca ca
C N
0
N U
Oa)
FL •V
X
O Us
Q)
a)
N NC~
o0c= oQ
c0
NQ- ; z
0
0
c N
ca s
E
r+
O v
C 0 O
V U cn
r~ a)
7
0 V co
0 QC.) E
to C6 a) CO
S M
C a) ~ A
v
co
a)
c
oca
UU
C
Q 0 mC
CD a) m
mQ
n o
0
o c
s
75 - 5
N
U
2
0 . Ln 0)
A
O U N= W
s cu ca M t
U -
0
to
0
N O~ 3 N c v vs Z o ca O. L
UO c N> Q 0) i Q N - O N M" Q)
E cu
0-0 c a 0 0) U) US r_c c C0 co) 0 a)cam L CUM s.
to
L 0- 0 O ,
r O a) = o w O O rn 3
CU
0- E c
a) N t - Q O
O 0-
U • U c aNic
a) U : 3 0c o>a)
0E =c
CU ~
oc~ o LOSAso.om -
r- CU
cN 75 LD CL -
0= co m ~
o O CL
4--
o c a s a) U s > 0
c a) s>
c V E n c - C-
U
N O CL O > N O
O E L c 0 ( B
a) U
O o N c - 0 s N - O
L
O a) L = ~ N Q ~ CA ca
0 X N
Z 0 a) D) a) Q fB ca ~ a) o 0 : 3 0
c O c
L Q
o
s N - 0 c
o N O c
v~ O
4--
U O O
c 7 N 0) a) a) C2O O O oU-0a) a) a) - 0 5)
U _
U C N c to O Cl)
Ca w0 CO Q
N U a) c
0 0) cu a) 0
CB U _
N
O
N
O a) ca
a) $ s
U N a)
N 0 c7 c N
O
CU
O
ca
l ` (
D U - 0 c
U - O N o
n c- C
cu C: - 0 cu cu
a) - 0
7 •
U CO 6 Ca C -
CUC N
Qs a) " x can N s C U A-0
CU cu
N
C "
U O
O U A O O C9 a) A. a) N c c
0 CT o c
Cc M - 0
w a) N oE' m . 5 o- o c a) w a) s a)
CL
m E 0) ~ n ~ O 0"Z
E
o: o
u)
c o o s o
W N" U) U co
4-- Q
MoEN' oovoi N. rvica>,o a) c ~. o
U
N C S C U ( 1) L- c
E
C 0
O
O NA U
0 Q)o s : r
O QO O~
N U -
c N = 3 0 L°$ 0 Z Q N ~
O
0 N
E U L~ O
U ' O $ O U U C1 C2 a) c N O N
0) : 3
ti~°)~aoi sNV~iL a~ ic°)i>`$ ~~ a~~ 0N moo
a)> ~ cmo ~ ZOO~- 2 ~ a) v°)ia~ io msso a) a) O c a) > O Lo U
a) L CB r- a) L a)
6 M= W a U( n O m US U' O.~ w co N- a o c a 6- 5 E
N
R _ E
N ~
E
O
L N
H U O
O
H m cl) N
CL
a
n.
i~-
co 0
co a)m _
U)
a= teaU -
U) LT ° Z0
V d c N
d Q O O
N
4) a) a 0) m
N = C.
a) aiV
V O
rj a
EV•o_0 ~
p m
41p Q y N O
0
S
C•~~'p ONC
0
U. ' a
0
a) 0
CD v E~
w D 0-
CL ~ Q)
M~Liv-
V C L C C
Q d 7 o O
3
m o f vi O ~ O
L.
N -
0 O Q m- 0 " O
cc E cu
0 - 0 U) : 3 C
0 a) ca : 3hall
i - 0=3 _
0
U L O O a) m o
cn co
c c- 0 O N m c=4 O O
4)
4) -
co O CL - 3 0 0 C C N o o cc Q_
L o
s
Co
j : n m o - C ' N Q m O
coi0 co of ( 0 L Q Co
d L Vj co
L
C m o m co Q .
N
m o
m O Q - 0 = m O Q E
w
ca-0 >%L ao o cn u) E Q.•- v c° o c 0 m 0
o Lo
tCU0 0) oQ oQO _ 0_ C~ NCL ~~~NOQ c- 0 O.cc
L
C O
O
P O O O m U
L ~
L E - O
m E cC $ - O
C
L- -
0
N
d C. O U - m o m N . E ~ - 0 0 c voi m 0 c ~ , C 0 a)
E E - 0 aa) o a)?' - 0 > c m f° ~ CL Co O
CU C 0 co E
O v to
L- C " O " o C ' C m co o m> O L
O A O a)
0 a) W-
t6 p~ 4--: a) C C 0 L - O = O Q.
c Q. 7 0 m co,
N
C. r . U = a)
O
C O co
O Co a) o O c • C m - Q_
m a- 0 - 0
U,
Q. co - 0
cu 0) 0O - Q
W E -mj w c uj 0 = . c?
Q
OU) c m~ a) ca
O V
O N0 CL CL C C a) 0 cm - CU) ca 46
L-
a) 0) 0 0 a cc U) ( D
oZ, - C N0o ~. Q"-. G v) o csm - o ~ ~ Eu~d Ncn>V m CQ C C
N m
O ~
m
L O t O
s co o f m oo O Cam. c m c c C ' c O L70
N
U)
E a) o o ~ ca x o w- m 0 0 E E
t L to m u) co o O in cn O c Q. O O
R o u O E
0
O O Q C O
a) X X c T - 0 ro o o O U c o .C
N a) - 0 « C : 6 O oL o m O C N E O _>..- a
Q a>i
s
o= > c~ ac) N 76
N
aa))~'a o c"- o
C. O 0- 0 a) L ~
CUB m U 0 O
O-~ O$
O 9
O c o° N
m
o~ m c o> a)
L
TO a~ E
o 3 c- 0 O o
ma) 0L1- of
a1 "-'. L 3rn a) L) -
ja) 0Qc5( D
U = V o N L '
O
U O O C E O~ vi N o
T~
Z 0 O L m O
O
a•a)
W
a~-E c Q c N a)~
U)) cn~"
cd0 - 6 0 W.- 000-0 - off aicoA~m-0 wav3~
N U
W
rr
d
V 13
Q
d C
H
Ztg
a
U
to L~
O N N UV d C
N • 4)
V i
V~`~ d Ec,)
C V O
z
L V O
U p
Q d Q)
W.
y
C/)
N
L
M
V 3
L
C'a
LPL
C
m
O
V
O
C L C _ O - C . - 0 U) C
V L L ig a O N~ s~ A t>
O O
acdY oLm (
1) cc ''
s o~ o~oNaXOQL N ; p m
C U O L. O 7m M i
T- • C C C
l0
co
O U Q $ O 0
w
to m~ H V a a) a) a) c
0
Q
t0 ! Q
a , U to O N C m O
N L
p ( 0 - O
IL d C
fo ~
p C U)
N V
O> SMOGE _ N
O
C a) N C "
O~~. Om 41 a) m2 CIO) 30 cv E vi ° m c
O E a) N 0W c_ oO a
O w
w
CU -a N (
u $
0 O O
L O X m O O O
N
N
S m C C
to a) M U 0 0 W i O P N 0
C ao C 7
CD o : 3X CLo a) ai p
C 0 L ~ rnc~c as °
a.+ Q N O O O V coo O N
O a) co
U) cM
c c c
N a)
E E c O co L - 0 N - 0 O
N N -
0 Q. M = 3
p U co ( p to O O C O N 3: EO U c U
r
V U
LL a) - C N . E
Q)
L a) U 0 C
N C N O
C (:
F 4)
D " O ' V ~ U
0) 0 - 0
Q = 0
Q (
D ( D O= : > O Q Co O p- 0 N° N E U co O
0 U) - 6
O O
3
fB N C (
D a) V N fo a N
co
0 U Q
mr- c: a)
C~06c0
a ~'~
a oco : CU `
a) Lomoa)a) c'u°- i ai
V m~°
w
a) m o ~ j w co~'o~ a` oim`o
w+ w e c c m c a) C O, N v a> L - v
N a~ ca m 3 a~-° a~ o ° c o> N Q ~ CJ$ 5- 0, m°a) c
L MEo0Uc L- aa)
o - Q
c
E
N
w
V
co ~,
a) x ~ n. M
o
co -
C 0mm ago ~~~ oa - O w - C a) ~
vi L- H : 0)N
O~ i O O to y co O
a) L
a) C
O C O N O ( D O
L C
aia O fo O O ( D ~
C C O O
N a3 N N C
s O
C N
m CL CL c
N 7 C
y-Oto N~
O ( 0 O N
co m c - 0
c a~ 0 c Nv a~ c ~ c O- ° -o 2s
o~ ~ a- -
a ~
m - ~ a ~° D p: 3E z05ooav
mE to~~ m - ouoi - UUtn~ c~oc° i-°mm
m
A
to
d ~
0
N ~ C/)d
u Qa
m = CO
N ~ . m
a a
O
U
N LT
V d
U)
CD '
V CI_
V 0 4) E
cn
V E O ~
co v o
p v
Q y a)
O d
N
LL d
0. 2 E i
0 a a
LL v c
v - M 0
0 4)
0(~' v_L
a
U) :: 3
U~~co OFE a) N `
N ~ 0co. 0LG. =
di o
a) E ~
m 9~ ~( D0a) E( s
co :5 co
c vi cR N ' o c O s a)
d com
a)
0aL 3
00~~ 0 c0) a)
4 M0E 00 o
L
L o 0 ~ N
y _E : 3
N co UO o c° C
O N CU
N s0 p
N
a)
Ri `
Y- =
a a) o - 0 co
c a) -
ca C;) E U) O c < n - r a)
3 do ~ L - L : 3 :; t O•. c
rnca) A0 to
yp sns 0a),o c° V.0 a°°' ccn o
v?+ 2co °` s° aso cNU: 3 o c
O) ( a 2 U- 0 04- ( D
0
C L
y d CL D E
c
L co Q~
0 '
p a) U co ~ pD r
E E a) -
0 Co 0 - 0
p v : 9 C- r-° c L
o
0) a) 0L° C s O7 - 0 w +
f0
m VLL o o -
0 c Q. ° w os 3 NL $ w
CL 0
cc - C -C k~
to a) N c coQ to
O O C CE
c _ NO
cna)
N
O 0o :
3
E a) -
c 0 U N :
3 0
V ~
a) O
O
N v) : 3
U = E
LOC)a en~~' a) m
VQ Ya
C
i o~ oa°)o° a)
m ~ sn
U) Co 2N~ O a) E a_- " - C"co -
M cvj co
c
cn O 0 - 3 a) CO 0 0) . 2 co a) C cn
C t N O c
0 C C a) Q) 0 = a)
c CD -
C N ~ 0 O O
V U Cl) Co U)
O 0
co
N
Co S a) CL t U) saNiV o0 0 0 aa)) aa)) EXC~E° 0c
0
D cn
ca
0° , = 3 ~ c a) a a)° S O U)
ca
o
a`) c cn
a) 2 : 3
a o ° 0- L) o o
c
0) 0 c
p M . 0 c rn co ~ - a) Urn sea > c s >0) a) 0 ( D C U)
CL a - 0
O x ° a) 0 a) O co 0 co 0 a) ° c a) a) a)
cc a)
IL ca 02 0 L U) a ca Cl. 0 _ S w(D a fa c cn co c c ' a ~ cn w
w
Z
d a)
U) U
4a
Q)
N Ct)
r
d
s
CL
ca
N c
C O
U
Co
Ntn'v C~
cp
Vm E MV p
Q
v
t/ 1 a a i
a _ C d
m CLL
N
2N.
CM
L
V
CCL
C a
r L C
r ~ O
0
0 a E A= c a
0
O
1 =
c Za
2 E
E
0 0 0
E ca
C
LL
z
01+ 4' a) a
01
O
L
O O L
N_
O
O ui
r• ' O C
L Co
LD
O
E aU) C
O '
p aFn O " O O O
0
L
2' E C: a) c 3 2
N~
cc
m
o
0
CO
cc U) a)
3:
ca
co
I-. w
p3 me
E 0
C)?N
s0
E=a a) o~ a
p2
tas
C
a) Via) o~o aEa) ~( D
c
Uco D Co
co 0 ca L) 3 o cu
I
U) U) C
E E I N M p 0 C X 0 p c e 0) ` n a) 0 "_r 0 ~
4C-- 'co m
L
O
U O
D N
0
w
0U
O 0-
C
N
ss
CX to >
L
0 4-- O
a) i U)
o
0 0 CL a) U) 0
c co
c a) u)
c
cn
a)
E Q)
a
04-
ci coM
U
C a O QOa a)
C E.
3 M
N
CL
U)
0
a O
a)
O E
N CL 0 U a o
0
0
fa
y
N-
L
O
C
M
N
O
N
OO
O
N
0
N V
0
O
N p p a" M 6
E
L
O 3
Z
t~ U V t
U)
N U U C E a)
S
U O
C
U) a
O co O C a)
04-
p 3
p n
0 o o V) CU CL
CD U)
a) m : t--
a C v c °
o a)
0 aa))C c
ca sQOM
0 a) 0
0 d=
p a) a)
a
Z c~ E E
c4
ca p E
Lrn
L O wLO co C L$
L'~ E -
D 0
U O U co
V
CL
O L A p O
CL a)
a m
c
4 '
E
D 0
EE O j,
O L
C
v °
a)
6
O a) 2 a) C O p 0 Co
f0 a)
cn w 0 G. a3 C 0 = 0 c,_. v 3 a s 3 cn v E W
a
m
H
0)
U
N0
N
r
R CO
d
V QZCL
m
O
H
r- ( 1)
R Q)
a
N LT
4) N
V d
N UC
0
4) 0-
D cU
1
CL d
V
1-
4) E MC V E Q
L)
d 3 O zz
U) Ae Q d N
0 - O d
U 4N ~ ~
L
0 a a
c
mU
O
o
U O
V L E•- C O co
a °1 m
O
CO
ca i> 0 ~ ~ co cL
3- 0 o~
N
Q~
C
dY
a C
O O N ui O
0
U O$
0
O O
E CO
O
C C Qr'
3
C
y O :
3
O C O lS m 0 o 0
a) L O- EU
c
c0O
co
co U
E
cc
CO
Q• N
coto m
Q
Va.
L
CO N N
L N p O L
c
O a p
c
O
O
a)
p
0
a> d U)
oo Em n
U)
m
N
N
O
U
a
L
7
i C N O
O (
n ( o a
L
E O
OO U
O o
C
p N
O
OL
o
3 C d
c p E O to
vi o
c
co
L co
cn
O
cn ca p c
ca
a)
oar
E
cn
U)
m d y C0 0 UL p C~c c o o cc c
r
C w
N
O
E
Q a)
E
C
a) V
O
L
co U) I- Q Q co O N
a s N
N(D
U
O
Cl)
ca a) co
O O
ca
O
OE
4) r-
p
Cc
Q OO
0 M 0 a)
Co
a) ( D
V UL p c U O._. A 0 QL
L O O O
V
Aco
O
Q
O
w' U
O
Q
o
O
p
7 O
O N 0 0 tQ OLO ' U L O O a
coa)
co
N
N
U
C
O.
O ~
d
Z3
O C
N
co L
p
0 U) 0-
L
O O C ( o ( acc
E O N
V 0
O O
a)
N U
LV 6 fl
a) U CL 0o co L O C O C O D U 2i fo
V d ti Q p ~
N
N O OQ
N V
L O
O N O N
C
O N
in C:
N N
75
O
0 0- 0 Q-,. M
O co V O 7
M - 2
Q o N C O
Ch
N
L
U N
co L O
N O L ' s N N O Q
CD
i U O N
C N U N V N
M OL UO L Co
c
C o N A N
L
GO N O
O
p
O
L
L OL
7 N- a= A!=
Q( tS
C"O N- O C
C. o o
O M 0
CL a) 0 o
co5) ( D E Q
co of3
r
o
0 0
N
coves
N EO a) Q N I+ O C j O
i
co U)
O
O
U)
E
A
i
O
o2 Arno
u V
v
o
co
EE i 2 C v Q o v
c
vi d v Q c Q a>
co
a. ai a~
O o
a ns . a~ . u) N
U)
ca Z ci co
Q
a
oL)
co E co
a
6- 6
ca
N
d
U)
CO
U
0
N
NJ t0 ( n
d
V Q
co
d
H
EL
fA t4
U
LL
V d c
r+ s 20
y N d CL
cn
V E MC V
C
O
u z
D2 Q d N
O 0
CO
t0 Li
V a L ~
ccU ma
Oa)~
V L
L )
4)
C O
evcv~ a0
rn Aco
0) aN
a-~~ 4) oc
4)
O s~
s ~ s
O
E E
C
O N
O v
V a
N UM w
s co
Nm
CL 2 c 5 i
O Q s -
00 N~
6
o~a)
M
0
N CO
0.-
C: ;
c
CV) O - - 0
C:
s N a Q C
E CL O
m
cc o
3 cc
N0 U C8U ~ _ U
N Q•Q0 ca
CL U N
o U)
E2
c
c 3) ~
o_ 3
0
0
C)
o
o
to
U P U
to
o
a) o cu a)
c
U
c
M
c
D
c
MC c ~
c
d
E U
C a) (
6 . p_
Q)
N
0
O E
p
c
Co coy
L U
U)
a) O
O M
O)
O U O Za) ° a)
cn
c
Cn ~E
C ( D
L
C O) a) O cn a) N Q c
D
p C
0)
co C
0) 0
0
p O
Q
a)
a
to
d
C
3 C
n
N
C
0 a)
C N CA =
Co
c N
R C
W
N a
U O O)C
O i
0 c
Q) - d
a)
o
d.
Ca O
a)
O
0)
C
a)
O CD
O
C
V
L
to
N
0O
C C
O
C
p
B a) ° O
E
a)
cn
UJ C
C
L O
d , O O 0 p
a.+ d Q)
Q
t4 U N L
co Q
N
M O
O
O d
N
m
C
O
D c0
Q
0
C
O X
c a)
E
0
G
M
w U)
c6
CD
O C
V
V
c
O u; E
a)
cn0 o
A O O
co
o ( 1) U)
a)
O
4-
o
m
tf
0 0)
C) 0
V CD
C
a)
t-
t- U)
O
L
A Q) ( D L O t0
N
C r
00
Q
N
ao
Q) O M
o w
O C Y
aD N
L
w
to A
a 0' c o
C C
L
4) O+ N c a) N
a)
0
N
0) M N N U U
U
N
O W c r O Q c
a)
U A
tfM
A O 4 a) ~ N O
V M
d
R
GE
L
O
O
U
4-
a)
C 0 V
r O V Q V N 1 U
c
G
r O O U
L
O
Z
0, O C p O ~ O a) c p Q O c
C7 a CL B a of o a. w U a cn a of a) cn to C7 a a)
No vi
c
C 0 4- a)
A A c
0
CO O
c
p C
L ' O
n a) c
0
a) w
L-
a)
C
C co
a) C a) U)
ca) to
D a)
t
O a) U)c
to
E
a)0
d
a
fp
O
L
f8 L A
C
m L
D L-
R
C a a) ~
Q
fa p A 0 Lcm
Q Q)
F-' v
a O "
t3
C
O c
O
mO M oa) Ls
O
U)
N N>
a) c
4) ai
d y
p a)
t
0 mL0
a) - A~ mc
p)
c
f0 o acne
C)-:= O
d V
U
2
4--
L
p a) C O C U U
y 4)
m 5 0
a)
C O a) m N N
0
C U)
a)o sa) a)
O N`
n
a U 0 0
a)
U Q n H
N
Q. C
EtLco
C
W
A
2
X
o c Eco
u
o>,~ caaj I
ca
L C
co
0 c : 3 i
D O 0 p 0 m ca0 0 n Ca Cat
0
ci co
N
el
O o c
0
tea)
a) U 0
0
ca a)
c,
cn
Q)c N L Q M p) U c
c~aa) E
a)
p C c N t
U V C 0
L- a)
N
0 0 a-
a~ U
CL
0 0 0 C
U U EO O
c8 N
CL
2 a)
0) C
co c C c rn N cL cnd M
N p a)
rn
m
ui
D 0
c
C ca N co cu a)
4) Lf
a)P ( D
M 0) n c-
ca c:
S
0 w
a1E
fl.
o a) O
E
0
D5 C: - 0
a) o
0
U
a) C
m
C
CL
0
Ca U)
R 0
co m
a) U) cu a)
3 p
n 1
f0
a) N s
a)
0
O) N
N C
a
O
0
I- O
0
F°
3
p o
O
o 0
c A + r co
N
U
3 T
Q U
o c
c0
a
a- N N r U O - C
N
2 ` o
L c
N
u) O n a) O O N
r CV E M
V
D 0 0 7 c U N N ca U A
O O~ O U a) U~ u) 0 0 W
o o
C7 C7~a 02 a C6 =3 aci 0 a-0 c~ Q - 0 vo. c a
M
O
0
N
W
z
O
O
U
H
W
W
I
O
W
Q
a
m
c
c
0 m O C O
CO
V
N a)
TU
U
C
a)
U
U
m
Co
C
a) a)
a)
c-
N
E
E 0 o
m
E
N
M
co D
E
m E 0-
a0 E
C N L
U)
O
0
E N
C
p
O
o U
cu
C)
C:
co
C
a) E a)
c 0
a) U
C
a)
U
a
O E
m
o C m
p
CD a) 0 c
Q.
CO U 0 p L
U C Q
a) N > vUi
m c-
a) c
a) w
a) Or
m e N
O O C m )
Q a)
LUFL
C (
D ( 6 n
d
Q
A U
Q) 0) V)
mm m
c
0 W C L O m C L Q L
O C a)
N
N
n
co
n y_, - O E
m
a) C -
0
0
C
p
N C
0
C
L
a) N
p O U
O
d
t j
N p N
Cs
J
m
U) C cA T> m7- s 0 s cLa
a)
L L
O
D Q)
Q C/)
a) co +
O
a)
E
D
S
a) U- ( n
0
m O
3 o 0
E C: Em
00
a" icCO
a)
o °- m in
O
U O O(nL
L
d
y_
m iJ
a)
N
t
Q
U)
a) D
O
y O EL
o cuO p C
s cmm U
n
O U0 Q m m a) U
in -
E o a) C C E
En
EQ c
U)
E p corn E " _ 0°)
f 0
p) Co p) v
m ao Q Q) . L w E - r- U) ' FN CD L U - C
C C C) 00 Q)O
O) C
U
CO OU a) C
L
C C
O W c
N N N
3 s >
I
O
cf) o
M N C a)
3 m
N 0y
L O
E E L
d a) ~ s v
o
Q E E v m' 3 m v
c
COL3 a>i
c
QE
m m
4) m C a)
a
c O 0
0 0 0 a)
C N
O
o
o
IL ~ a) C a U) o 0 a 0 a Q ~ a) d on cB U
L
0
W
U)
r E
L
CD
W0)
0
v
1
4--
0
COD L
ca ca
a) C 0 ~
O o m~ w
co
c
O
a) c
c s m
0)
fM p
L-
M a)0) E
CD
c m
0
O
cn
r
C~ moc c~ D
m" 0a)
C
0 C
o ( n
0 cn a)
Q
N
O
C
C
D
4-- w O Os s O O-c m UL m
U_
C a) L
L a)
m a)
E
O t a)
l
U
L U C N
d d O
O U C
N O~~~ a) C ~
O C S c 0 C
O
O O
NC a
D
C O N
0
O C>
D cu
O O O
D
cn vi E O fD 0
c
U U
d
r+
N U O O cmU_
O Co 0) a c
C
O . c? a) ~ c c U - c O
d a) • C O V
c a O' t~ E O a) a)
LO O. C COCU U Q N 12 c 0- Q O E com: U~ U a)
CD N U E E N
Co
NG.
W
co
2
Q N
M
x a)
c
O
o) O s Xs
4
v
Oc0" O O a) cn
Co
p 0) Nr O. C a) O 2
CV a) o>o N
CD
N x 3
E
0 cMcco
0
N m V -Lc m a
0
0
E ~ ca
U
m
c
7 U Q oco coO
N
a) 0) + v) L
c
C
O ( Da) cn - E a)
Q a) C 3 m
U O ON N
O
C U
0) u-
C O C j7 r
0
Ns0 c
p
U m o M N
0
n
00-0 EN
M
E co c0: 9
O O C 0 0
0 D M C
a)
o o c
E y
co
c a) O
C N
c
a)L
U
w
t U o
L- LZ
N m O C
C
s O
O
C a) E0 a)
C a) 7 0
N m' cd U O
0 0
L-
M CL U
C
m.
4- C O
co
L N a)U
O
U -O , - N
Co
Q s
N
wD Ca-0 ° ca a) a) a U c N O a)
s
N °a i v
0
H
m a)
i
7
N L C
a) c N C
O
C
m
E c
E
0 0
C
EL N l Fa a) a) cc ( D c: aO
C N
u)
i a) a) . Q
a) > U
O
U
C ~ C
0 m
D
c
c O MU)
U ( nU) 2)
N m
r- ma o E
a)
C >
m > M c
n E s
n
O C " O a) a)O a) " O ( n 2
m r o c E m N O m 0 L M N N O) ~ - C cU Q-
M
O
0
0
N
W
Z
z
O
O
E-'
C
W
I
w
O
W
Q
a
O
O
U
J
O m
O
O
0C
Y
7
mU
p
N
L
O
N
N
d
m co
m
cn
G O) E
CL ~ Ns a) 0
C IZ O)
C N A O
cC C 0) 0
W N
E c
G)
N O
C
O m
a z cm
N
6 W
s a) 3 cn
O m Q w
CL U)
O
E
to U
0
C
m
0
o
0 C
m
N aCi
o Z)
E
o
5 r U r
N cd N 06 N
C C D O N ca N N
V
W
d
A O L Lo
N
A
M
e~ O
U
N v
ca
S
a w
Q
n a ° C?m
ON
a~ s
m
O
U
L U) L A CDN
Q
L) U)
Na
cnco
N
a) o
N
CU -0
E m
0 C:
O co o m
U)
c N p:3 A
cc
C
O Co
r
L
U) U
0
L
L L
O N p - p C
U-a) s C to A E
d
Co
E C p
CD
C 'L C 7 V
a)
L-
L
s a)
L C
0 °
2
O
Q c o u- ~
p 7 s
H
i
IL
0
Z
c8
U) 70
w j ° a M
0
p 0
0 N o~ a 0cbUa) 0)N
3 o O Qc° mcn. Uaa)) C~
N oa~ 0
N V O
cc C L
7
U O N
C ca L1 O. pN - C X 0 0 N
p
i p
O 92
p L N '
pE •O a) O
C O
E U
m i
N,
Q
E 0)
N C
m NU O p 0
O O
N
O
p
C p
N....
p tn. pL O N L
N d 1- N 7 p
L
cA 4-
Uv- C O 5! O O C
O N
c6 C7
L C U
a
CL C cu O O-L
p fl.
p
U
Q
Co ° v
p
D
E W
N i A O
f$
O O
U w UA O
Co
2
0( 6 ES
U C C
A o Rf N
i 0
L) C ( 1) N
0)
CL U
O
N N y
L '
O N~
C O C
U N U coV [\ S
V
p C O- O E
N
0, : 3
AU0 O> M
O
N CL
r, Co : 3 - 0
N p i
r O
C p
7 C
L
co _
c6 >
v p O
C
C N
CO
p
N
a U W Q j N t rn_ U 3 U)
ccn) cCw p CD
0 CO
co a) p
CO
Q7 U U L
O c0
0 0 O U L
O V
L ca
co L
Oa) p Q
E - p O C
C C
U N N
U
V
V t j cn E O p t
O p N O OLs M N O V O U CQ P
r+
C a) Op Z-
L C O CCL O CU EC O L
NJ
N
to
N
C
s
C N
O
r N
C N O
C
N
O Q O p
N =
C p= - C L
p
cp
L
O
cn p N
O C Co
i N C O O) w U O i- •
O O p c0 0 C L O O 01
U
E 0- U C:
N
C CL N U O c
a
M::0
N Q N
C
cN i OU ( B u N 0
Co - 0 r 3p
D 0
0,
O
N p V U Q p O
U
m O
N
co
ca ( p
V
Cc
C
L Y
C
N c6 = Oa) co 3
s
N
L 0)L
Q Ca)
a)
U)
M O
E N CD C
0
C N N Q N I C C p- C 0 0 0
s
L:
O N cpjto C
co 2
O cn O
E O p p U 0 CO
0
O N0 ' NO c O N
L
C 0
O C
O C U Q C
CL C
0 UO
N
nn
p a) ( D E
0 cv
0) m . 9 N N m D 0 0 M- 0r- N Co N U
M
0
0
N
W
Az
i
O
U
E-~
x
C
W
I
o
o
w
o
W
Q
a
d
R
CL
c ~
m c
aW
Q C
CV
N ~
C
O
t
d
COQ
r 4)
N V
O
O
O
V
01
C C
O W
M
A ~
d
CD 0 U)
C co
W o) v Ea
U)
D
cm
c
s m
c
F
00=
0
cc
cn 8) a)
0
p.°~ 0 pU 3: n
u
a`) a
Co L F
r= O O c
c
C O
4--
c " m
0 C ui j
Z p co C
d rC
Q.
N
m
p) Q
O
c a)
N
0o
m CLQ -r- p
N
a)
o NaG crs ca)0
a) a
cn m
C.
L Q c c
a)
o p Os o
cam. ~ N c m_
p~-p
a)
U Q= c
o o~ cs cnm- OS io a~' i0Smp3
a)
o
a) U 111 a)
V
Q c a) j
c
4+
y
C
U
L
Q
m Q)
N
O a) U O
p
o - a a)
C m a)L m a) p 0 a) m
Cl)
i a)
L
a) O M Q a)
w
pa)
m Z5 q
a) E m.~
L
L X
p W
CO
L a U LL m
Lu N p O
Q
E O E 0c
a c . " O
N a) i
m L.
E a a) • t m a) a) tp c Q
V s V O
U
N Q C O' CL ° O U O L L
0 O N E 0
A ch
a) 3: Ec C L)ca rn - 0 ac) O m c"-j
o o
c N .
c
a) O ca
CL 0 U) CL s N
c m Q
3 U
O
O c 0L c m
cn. L
O O rn m c
L
m
m a) x U
W a)U
VI
co a) Q-
Q ~ M
p a) O
o ° ° a) a yv
a) L
O °
o
U)
P
ri o
co
m-~ o Woc`aLm c z0 NN0
3
N a)
m m L O N> C co to a) + r
W m a) L U) O
L
Q
U N C> t
c N .Q - 0 c a C L N` N o
m N 'a
IDV C: ( D 0 0 D : 3 a) Q)
U O LU m- a) A
O
U O "
O L E N O c c N 06 cn c0
U C O fn
Q= 7 U m c~ a)
L-
X
O O O N " a M Z
c L A c p 0 0-
O Ha)°
V y Z LL
U 0) a) O
O-_ a) W Q J U U L
W
i
U
o
N
O
CU
J
U U
D c
4.-
L 0) a) L4) w > 1
E
Xm a)
LA N m
Q)N55 ~ p
cu
1 ca
C -c QQ 0 a)0
L cn
cua)
a) L H L . L-. U 4-: P LO U L 3 Q L CU W m LL i)
M
0
0
N
W
U
O
O
U
r~
a~
W
I
O
o
O
W
Q
a
V
Q
D~
CQ)
m
wa
0) 0
CV
U)
C O
0 U
d a)
Q
y
N
O
U
O
o
ca V
d
N
C C
O W
UM W
0 c m
W w
0
O
a)
E C od s o
0
H
ca
Z
L
C C O N
a a
m ca 0 co ' od O L
L O
d td
a cam
v
n ca a) sU) N 0
O A aU)
0 LL
a) A ~ c
C 0 O
O .
N0 0
FL
c
ca m o m CLW U) 0) i c E o
cl"
o' E co
E a) - c ca
E o-C c c 0
H~
0a 0
c CL o ca 0~ m
D
cuo 0 0~ O E~0) o c (D
C( 1ocn0
ca
CL ~
iL-v O
Q a) viQro
ca
Cwcac WQOc~
r U m a) oa) . a) o
a
3 o c
0 m co
o
bsC- ocW
U) :
3
p c) ca a)
U N
af a Q• u)
o a) c Co
c E m- c a)
O O o 0 E
L Coa
F+ d N O C a) N N m m p 0 N U a) N Q >
C O
O
O) C L
p i
0 Q FL N N
a) - C N N
co E
U)
C
Q OO C a Cu V N N 3
n Q i
to
Q co C cn 0 c"~a 0 W a 5C. C
W
O a C
0 a)
Nu) to
a co
s s c co a
O U N c a Z s ca O
rn
a a)
oco~ ccna cL°
c:
r=E
ca
c~ acmc'
cuM a) > cu
a)() c°c) U) U) - J ° caNw c~ Cm
0 a) a)
0 v o
m O O
N
O 0 pU
a
Q
M 0AM
U
a) Q
Q
X c a) o" c oU W v Oo
cN a
7 U
W ca
a
ca-04)
L
E mC O a)
a
a) : 3 fn 0 a) U)
M
C CO a
o
V C c
V
c a
C L O C
a)
0
L
a) U)
c
u_ Ca) . C
mo dP o~ op a i
a)
U) E ~a U
a
a D a) U~m
06 m
c`) a
C
C- 0) a) Q O m m - 0-s
0 U p a) a) a)
3
N a) - 0 u) 0 n uiEa)-- O cu
C
a) C
Co CD w wwE-
p E - 6O
EE
O a)
U O a a a) 0
N ~ W a) o a 0 Na U p
Ml c
L
NXma)Qc p- a) a) U ~ W NcLC m u)
06
N
L
W L) Q M U a) N
LLW
CO U)
C
m a) U to N N
U aO
O C
Q
C a) aV ~ a) c)
a wy a) m c
C
c a) a) O
C
2 :
3 C
O E c 2
H~ U 0
ca O
C E O
N
m
U) U)
a
ca °
i Q) m a)
2am°) a3 EC a)
s
0a) mLa) mE U E~
C C
n' m
O N Na) C U C L~
a) "
c 0 O C Ua)
p
pV
000 M V a)
0 C3
N N
0
O m 0 0 0 0 U
N
a)
LL
C a) C p
UC~ ofofWU Ix WD
0 0 0
A a)
M
O
O
O
N
W
z
z
0
0
U
W
I
0
W
a
m
ca
Q
C N
Wa
a) N
CV
r C
O
O
t U
d Q)
C
dr
O
U
O c
O
U
4
m L
C C 4)
O W a
t
M d
G1 O
C9
U)
C N
A
r C
O O O O C
D 6 a) ca QC
0 CL
co Q p fa O U
N
a) -
0 w a)
0
0 0) C Cc X N N
a)
co
3
0 4)
d N
C
U c E C ca N v~
0
O O O M
C O N
Q
O C 0 N C a- O
O
O D) 6 3:
d a O
o
2
ca
01 U)
ca
L
p= U N N a) L
E o
Q ca
0
O O N
U ~ 0H ~
c
C o
0) C a) - 0
0)= oo
ca o
L
o
cn
C~ a? cW
3 y o
U
s
O - co E cn(D
5
ca a3 u m
C
c N C EL
E
o f ca o 0a) CQ av 0-a
n
t o O N c c
0 C n
Lc ay
a) - 0 W
C o 6
a) "
U) L a
oOO O
Ca
QU O N O_ a) OU N
c'
W
U
O C cn
C
a)
j
O
c3: a) n
0
a) a)
9 L
a)"
N
CCq_-
ca . r
t o
O O
0) 3
Q ca
U) ca o
0o
o
W C
v ca 0 C O
a)
V CL a-+
0- 0 ( D
N L
0 E N
M
V
CO
L 0N
O co O Cc L ' O 7
N
Q
a)
3 > 7
NCr
CoC U
r a)
0
C -
O a) 0
7 U
o N L
U L ca C- Cu A L
O N O U)
U 0
O U cO C C
O
C
EO
O
L CC
ccO 0 C a)co a) " 2 C U
Q)
D
D
A> a) C caU a) .
V
P
co O a)
0 V ) O " O U a) O j C
U L to 0~-- a) ~
to N 0 0 O a)
0) N O O~
O U a) O
O
Q O a- co ca
N
3 a
ccu 0 0oMc
co
cos U E arn d. N
4-
E : 3 a0 0
a)
v i
0 Q O N C N 8 a 7 V Q C C N O N N N~ ~ O Q a) OON
C
f
M 0 C O
O
N N O CD CL U
0)N
O
C
0 O
c
a) 0
w 0
0
Co O W N
VL
Co
C)
O
C
C. . to
a) - 0
L U
C
N NC U C~ "
ND A C Co L U L C M a) U UE j, a)
2) L s_ n N o 0 o W a~_ 2( D U) o a Q-E
C C
O O N a) @ a) a) U) a) L m ca C N
N
O
CL.- O
OO
C] N a) O 7 7 L- 7 O) o 0 0 0- 0 s
L a)7 v-
rU) o0vrnto to r t
M
0
0
0
N
w
z
z
W
0
0
U
5C
w
I
O
w
Q
a
m
ca
CL ~ NN
c Q)
ca ~
C
O
R
O
N
c
U
d
cca)
Ow
V M ~
Z
C0 CC
W m0
co.s
d ~
a
H ' C
aW
d co
N
cV
C O
Q)
CL
E
O
U
C
c0 i
FL
a
N U
C
C O
E Q)
Vas
A rj y
N a)
UQ
VUQ~
O. N
y U
O
0
N
U
N
O
ca
0 O L
O
a)
Co C
U O CU
O - N
E
c
a•- L SAL
co M
a) a)
C - 0
C
L U
a) : 3
0 ch
L > cc O O O
C a)
S ca ca
ca cu
C - U
o O
it
cn
C CL
z- E
0
C '
E Q
p QO
N o C
C O O
O O
rn
O C
C O
a) C ' U
C C U E O
O
aE'M
O
a) o-o
j -
U E a) C
O
CU
n
omo Q a i
L
C C O
Q. c
caE~ a`)~
a~ co
ca Q_ QOo C
s a) . U >
a)
cn Q
o QCL
O a) 0. - C
ON~«-
L O - o
a. cn ~ S- o
0N
a) - o
C Ca) c a) O
Q O >+ x)
a) E
E N N N O
a) Q 7 = p O O
O C D-
oC6=
o
EL
a)
v
D cu w
N-o E SA
ja
E
cn ca " o o . U
EEoQQO
a)
Q) - O ca aE Q) O
v- ° E. oN
L L
O
0)
O E 0 1- EL
N
o 0-O 6
Ea)
O
U > O O 0
L
Qaj 0)
fa
C
nCN O a)
0 -0. 2 - D Ea)
c C
a)
D L-
0
a
0 - C 0)
N
C:
Qcoz O a
0) a) - C M 0)
m
c
0
CL
0 0
Oc'
E
N
c i
N O O - O C A
L
C
O
C C N a) . O
a) A U
a)
L C U O
O
0)
LL O N C0 A
rE m0 - m
M
O
a
A
a)
C
a)
a)
vi
a) - ca
CO -C - 0
N N _
C
a) N N lS
a o
U a)
co
C, O
0 oa)
a) - O
Z-
C Co a)O O
Co
CaCL U L
CL L
C~ 0-
CcaO U
O _ a ~
cA C - C) a)
O
CO E2 04
C U) C
a) Co
C. vas
a) > ' C
CO W
L _
0 N a) ~
a) D C
a)CLccaa3C,)a) la
a O
co
co `O
m c0 - = CO
E
Cu
E o
C
Na)2 N
C7 C CO
ca W
0
0)
D - 0
N
O
a)
c N
N
U
O
a)
O
Ncucaa
O O a)
C ca cu
U
CU .EEZ
CU ` a)U)
0 = CA
caEocaa)
L"
ca Co 0
c> ~a~ ~
CD cn ' C U)
a)
a
Ea) a)
O
U-
Co
a) O ca
0- 0a) cc>a
O 0L
a) - 0
0
0N~°o
C 0 O
L
N
a) MU N
C
c ° U a)
O Co ~-Z -~
d
0 = 3 co
6, 0 6. E
CL a) L
EL.
L 0- 0_0
a
U
O
7
C
C
ca
a)
a)
C
a)
0
C13
U
a)
m
O
U)
a
Q~
c ~
L
a W
4) C6
CV
N OC O
0
L
N
R
L1
Q
r N
O
U
O
O
U
E
O id
C C
O W
U
A ~
d
0
C 0
U)
c c a)
W
N
s
N O V
CLU
o
L
c
o O
X a) CO Q cu
o
N
w. C L U C
a7 7 L- U)
O 07(n O O
V
ca j
E_
N C
U
N
O
Ud R
a
c
O
Q Emc' nL C O~CO C0~•°c N cu
O 0 fA
p d v) r- - C O
cn
C)o V C Q N 0) Q C
o c 3: ( wn
o f N- 00 c CQ~ a) La)°
r~+ U O)
U
N N W M m 3 O
C U) a)
o ca La)
D E m
C
F5 U
M
V 0 m~
Co L a)
m
3: a) C N
O cV
O EC L V
ca a
N d~ co o c° iU)-Ca)
i o~ vaQ7o 0 0
W co O 4-- O O O N °
U)L
L
0
N N O to U N O E w
O O
N
U)
N
N C-
i L
N F- >
O
o c: cn U N co
cd
U)
o O
O
c0 c C Q N a`)
M
N
V
co N 0 fa
L
OO O
N
oc - 0
L C
C ( 0 cc
O O O ( Q
U M
N LO =
O
U=
N j
O
O
U)
3 V
Q)
0 a > 0 Q U C~ O" C " UU-
L-
OO
C C~
C
O E co O.
C
c
O J4) 0
O
L C =
H N
0 o m r E C
c6
U
U Q P
O ca
U
O
C
0) 0
N O CO O 0 O
N N .
r
N
L a BN
O
C
L O C P = a) C
O O O
0
0 U U O O. O O) O U
C
m L
r
U O O > C
CD
L O O L Q-N " O O O
t
0
U O 0) 0 to to 0 N~ ~
p f6
O) C L -
0 f~ C p U _ C
m CL C0)
O
CL
C
O
U C
0 a)
CL U) O
C 9
C C L U N O V
N L
9 U
7
d O
U O V E UV C c
U
A. 0
O
0 0 N
V
O 0
C
0 A
O
O C 0 CO N N o a)
N
L
a
N
C a)
7, a>~
O_ c6
E C
0- ( D U rn
v,
U
3
c a?
N OO
UaCL i0
2
i La
oa 0 o
4) a.
w 0cn
M
oN N
L
CDE c L • C ~ E a)
rn
6 O U O E 2 a) N
5)
r H U~ O cc 0) rn d N!
M
O
0
N
W
Z
Az_
a
O
O
U
X
w
w
O
N_
w
a
m
i
ca
CL
D C
mW
CL
d 2
N
LO)
C C
CD
t 0
U d
N
E
0
N
O
U
O
O
U C c
G) O
Wc V t" r!
0
0
c
U)
0
o W 0) v co 0 a) c
40 a) L 0
ca O 0)
Q
fa
c a
L
cc
A2
N a) a)
a)
O
w
tn 41 t0
a)r
c
O
v a)
c
a) O M-O c
c
U) N 0 a) E
0) s
C
co
O> om
a) a E noa s
a° c~ nm
a)~~
c ca a) a
o c c
Co
O
C
p
a) c a i M -0 U)
0) °
L
o
3 C Q-
A 0
0)
0 c L
vi U) Cc
a c c
L O 0>
0
m
a) L
cU
o
U cn U tea)S ca oho o° c''S> c a~ co
w'Z5 C
a) U U) a)
A L
a
J O N N°~ m E a) 5
L
N
s i c C
N
0 ' o C a) C Cy' C
O
a) O
O
o ca c
c 3
Q)
L cn CU CL
O
U)
3 C Co CCc
CLE W
co 3C-
C 0
U) 0
C
0 U E N aC a)
U a) a):; o. Q-C OL
a`)
co
2 S 0
3
O CU .
0 U)
o VL- O
p) a)
0 U O O
6) 0 U a Ca
N
CO
Q C5
En V
C
U
fa
c
L
s0
c:
c
0
C
O
m
7
Cc
C:: O N a) ` O N c cp
L
U)
L0 O Co 0C)
C L
O 7 U O
O0
ca U
0)
C
8
O O
tin
U O
0
C;)U) ' 0
O 0)
C c O 0 H Q O
N
L-
L
coV
v_
V U U A p CC 8
fL
y
N
a)
N
a)
0
a)
E P rn V
N
Cc N ca C f0 L
c0 O "
O
p i
L$
L
p c O
C
N C;) O
a) d M E • 0 y
a)U) N
O
L U)
O O
C
N
N
Q:
a) C L c a
O
0
Co 04 ui
0 o c:
a) 0 cu
cl)
a)
U U a) rn mec Q c c o ( 1) CO c"n~
a) ~a)
a)
cO M
CO
L- C ca c
U
7 N a O
X
7
o
4
m
a) C c M
L 0L
E
rn
F
p
O o U) o D U N U) o c6 a) Uo a op
c o
U) n
w U) a) a)
C, C
U) O O • V
L N O> a) °). C O L +-
c
m
Z L m~ 0
a) N E N
m
a)
a)
c
W O
p V-
E 0 a)
A
a N
c
0 L 4
c L 7
c
a)
7
co
cpca Q
M O
O
L X 0E a)
m A C c
cC1 co O
N
C
c a) E L L
N
o E
O
E ~
00 E 2
a)
p
cc
C U CU - a
C s 0
U() 0 N 6 0) C3 C) o M O a a0U-
S
N U
4-:
a) - r( n co a3:
N.~
a)
c.~
M
0
0
0
N
w
z
O
O
F-~
C
w
i
w
O
w
d
cu
CL
C a)
ccs c
aW
C
O
r
O
N
c
V
a
C c d
0 W ~
eh ~
T
0 ( A
C
W
0
r
a
R3
N0
CV
N ~
C O4)
C U
d Q)
L
Q. CO
E
O
U
D
cu
c
m Cci
a ) c~
N U E
N
i N ~ a)
V~-3 E
A M O_
N O O
3U0 ( 1)
V )
P
0
N =C3 O
N U E
E
U
ca
E
L
0
IU
c
4-
O C - a a)
C L
p
E ~ O
0
E O U O ~
U=
C
ca ( u O a) c
O U)
Q- co x
cl) a) a) N
a) N
C - L
c
o a) ( n C a3
O
O
L E a) EL -;R
CL U) cu
r a)N 07sLN
cu -- a
O a) co U a)
O > O N C
O
C C O L C
co a) C
C.) cu c N ~ $
O A C ( O a) a) L • Cc
0.- s
U) 2.0a) C s
c a) " O
N- c•L
E O
u a) Q Oc O C
U vi
O O m C a) UOcu
7 E> O N E 0O O_ N
E - 28 M Q O O
C0 U)
cOn0 v
C > s
N L
CU U Co a) a) + L- C O
0 - C
a) a) c c ~
c
mu) 0) O. Scu--Qu)
0 ~ co X 00A? a)
a)_ a)>t
ri 3 aa)) 4 a1) =3 v-0 0
cu a) ~
O ( u
a)
L- Cj)
O C
O U
U
Ac ~
c - 0
a) co
CC CL
A O
cA
C C U N a)
7 a) O ' U
COa)H
p
U
L. N 0)
svOi -co' CCu
cu Co ~
o• L0) L-
L)
0- 0
C O Co
cumO- E U
U a) N O c
Q N U N
N U
a)N N cc
L O s
O
00- 0 c
0 M cc
co
a
C: a
0 a-
w CA
In : U) U
a)
a) - 0
a) N E 0 Cl)
C
L C O
C
P
N
CU U - ( n O
L
U cu
CU N0 N C S c 3 E- o
cu
C
O U)
V
o
cA N 0
C O
O
co O 0.--
3
A U
0 cu 0 CU C: 0 a)
a) U) L s-
c
s
U$
cca a)a) 0w 0 C 0 0 C.- c
cu cC
a) A co U) O Q~
co cu
Cu a) C L
CL m OaU) 14
O a) a) _
O - C C a) O
cn
C0c~ E sococ - CL c U)
N C
C
O O O
O a) QU 0)
0- 0 a)
U cuO O> U C
E E
L C U
a) C a)
0- 0 O
N E 7 C c =3
O s
cn s u) r C U C '
y
L
O C
L O O LL i>-, E N 0
C CL
CL > 1 0 ( D W c:
u) E o
C cu u) - 0
a) n O~: - O
r
U) - 0
Qa)CCr(D
i s2 a) CEOL
0
L O s a) U L , cu s C 0
U a) to . N N U N N N O
a)
c-Z ~ m N aNi-0 cu
ac~uo o N a) a)c~~ ccuu._2 0 a) c0~ s.~fl. a)~
d
R
O.
D
a
Wa
CD 0
Z N
N ~
O O
0
s U
d a)
CL
y
O
V
O
U
IMd
C c as
O W
W d
W ~ v W osN E a) 4)~5 5
0)
W
c D w a
Ca a) M
C ( a
a)
L e O~ cs~ 7 U) L D CD
Us m C
C
r
J V y..i
w e
0
V
O ( n U
A
W
T
V
w 75 A • N a) O
d R U O U)
Q O
C
QN N-0
L a)
s
to
E N CO
ca jd. p
c o
C ip C
O~ aM
F" ' D
a o o
E 7
a)
E
CL
O O N s
N p Qc
O 0 0
N
p 0 a)
E
L
LO ca)
O
O Oa) O
a)0 c ca-0 C -
C
o
a)
cca
D
m CUN
d W U L N O
O c N U) a
E
A N
N E
s c
U
O
N
a) QL
t
N O C
N N
N U O p
4)
U) v
O 0
a) a)
CO
O
N
O
CnN i j
O
0) EO O O U E
O
E O M
U
0
U
NN d - A~
4-- 0
N 0 C 0 0
c a) Ca ~ 0 m -
to N
rn0
U
ca ov
c. c
E W
0 0 a) o L a
U)
w _ L
o
O O c X
L
a)NO N
N~
M
L
O
CO
D
W
a)
a) N
C
fa CO N O
cc
C
m a) E N
L
a)
O
m-
N
W
0 a)
N C c b p N I
C N a) 0 p
O O O ca E N • U O C L O O N rn
N c
D U
c c 0
E C
ca
O O 0N 0
O U
U c c w cLaa) r- 0
O
U) O v) 70
O a O Z U N C rn a) a) L v
C
N O v a) 3 r
V
a)
N N N C 0 a) N U) C
O
a) co O U L o~
U)
O a)
c
M 0 0L " c c
N O O 7 O . C C fa s N co O N O N O U to p O_ c O
t U C Q O
0
N
U)
E O
D U O
N O O 0)~ ca O
O
C
O U
0 V im N N E cE c s~ OCc c0 a- a U
0` a a)E
G
D U
N E
D
a)
0)
ca c0 w N E 0 c
3 U
0) 0
E E
o
o
N
0
a) s U) 0) 0 m CL U)
U
L
E 5 c:
C ( D a)
c.)
ca z
L
S a
c L
a3
s
N
N to
ca o N
0) O u
N
w >
O
s
a) N N ma)
s ( A
c p
O 04--sF
CU
0) 3 s; c 5, 0) 0)
s m O) a CACU CL
s
U0
Q~
N O
C
O
o
C to
0
6- 5
oo
L
0
N
c
0 s
L
0)
CD
E a
ca s cn
C a i
Es c c
cafaU~ E@Eca 6 120 w. Sa) Psi
2rc
Pa) a
M
O
0
0
N
W
z
O
O
H
W
I
o
O
It
N_
W
Q
QI
a)
CL
D
CL W
4)
2 CV
U) CC
a) O
0
4 U
d Q)
E
r O
N
O
U
o
N
N `
C C
0 W
t ch
A ~
O
0 U)
CC
W Cf V
c
s v c E
ca
a)
C O
A
co p) LO
0, a)
O a E
O L
v
H
a)
N a) co U C Ha O L C O E O 3
C1 t0
a
L
0
c
E ND
a)
0 (
D
C U
a)O U
a) o
O O O
V Z OERf
FL R 0 O Q O O O
CD
a) W 0 L
rocaoo~
s
FL o i
L
cnoC
a) o Q No~
C° O
c
C coEE - oc a)
N
V
a N A L O O A O
E
O N vE o N X
L
Gi+ d V " O
a)
CAL O C E
o
O
c
a) a)D O O C a)
U
Q) O
oO V s C 0 D
0
O 0
C
U m vOi
r
d i
Q) to
L
O 0
LL L
Z
L co
to c Co
Q.
W v N a) ( B $ (
D 0- 0
L N
U) ' p O C s V
O p
3
Z 0
4
N s
C D C N O
CL c
E X 0) U)
O C
a) D
V
U H A 0
c
0 p 0 •C N a) C-. L
CD OL
r~"~ n p a) a)
s Z o cu c a) r- : so. rn o
C
N
o
a co
ES
L
o m
04- 0 0
0 00 E
U
U
co
3
N 0= CL c~
L UC
P
o x
3
0)
cBt ° s
to o) ' O
O m
N O m O 2 3
7
O
a)
V-0tl)
r N
p
p
O 0) N
a).N
Z, 0 N-0 0) c 0E
0
C C r-
t5 E c a) C
V V N
C
0~
O
C N a) - 0 O
O N a) R N ON UO
N .N
O U O O
L
O C
L X
U) CL U)
C
O
0 V N OOC
U
Q- E C U
C:
U C O 0)0 U 0 0
C
m No °
C U.- s
C U 01 N N
2
a)
O
coc U N A U)
a)
L
v a)
A s
C a)
c
U O C O C
O
a)
X
r ( a V
C
a) o cm a c
L
o E 5 O
a a) o f U O to
0~
U y
11l
m A- 0
00 C M O
o Q
OL .a 3
j
X
C A~ >
ANL 7
C
O> 2
a Q a 0 CL - C co - L o a) U - C Q - 0 Q N to ' fl M cc
M
O
0
0
N
W
U
O
O
F-'
H
W
x
W
I
o
O
N_
W
Q
a
d
R
Q
i
Q)
R z
a
a) c
CV
N CC
C
Od
O U
d Q)
E
d
N
O
t)
O
O
C C
O W
V M
A V-
O
om
O t
C
W o~ v
N
L
o R
C
o m F- v,
QO
O
O a)
Z~
a) a) to
U)
OV
t C_ O
E
c)
O t CD O 'C O
1)r
L
L
N . N U a)
ca
C.) aca
U C
L ~ 3 0
a o
D E a- CL
E c C
oa)
2)U)
ca
L
a)
m o ca nS E
EE
a i
cn~
0
n
m oU) c
o
c U$ 3-0a
C
FL o s oE 0 a)
0 C
c
ooca L O• c)) A R
ccR
a) a) 75 U)
s a)
Q)
L
Co Z
0 t o
cu
N
0 c
ca U R
L
C
c U)
U
ca U)
O U)
0) CU -
N c
Cl)
i
C U
D
U 0
C
m aO a) _
c • s R O
a) 0- 0
cu
U O R .
0 " 0
a) U a) > 0 O C a) 0 U
W c a
C13
a o.N 5
m
E s C
R
C E w ( Qr-
V~
0) a)
s>
CO C~ o 0 m 0 -
c
co
Es
r
E
ch v
co C A U) O
CD
co - O D
U) C
cc o v
3 L a) i
a)
ato = 0= 3 a) co
a)
C N O co a co N C E co O R O- O a co c E H co a) Q U
7 U
00
U U) - 0
O
U
a)
U U O Co a)
O
U Q- N
O a) ' 6- 0 a)
a)
U U
C fl v C
Ca)
U,
a)o L C
O
ca
U ca fa
0 m
L
0
L
0 a)L
A 0
O M -
cc c a)O C U
2
O
tl) fA CL r-
Q
L
O. CL a O O a ca
U
a) N C A
s C . r C a)
a o
C 3 0 >0-
N
CL
U~ v~- aLE U E- 0 UEa)ci
0 "-
0.. Ea) 0a)
t U U L.• C L > L.. a) a)
C
co CU
U=-0 O U) N
L
Lr O
N O
CO N a) N
4--
N s
C N a) C> N N M R R
U
N% a) " O
U 0
O C) 0 U 0~ C-O O 0G N 0 00 M C 0 a)
a)
L...- 0 0
0 C
0 Q
AR R C O O m 0 o°)vi
m
c~as~
m
C
y
Z: a) R
0- 0
ca O N a) N E
0 a) U)
to s
N to 0a rn
CL
0 0)
U)
0
C
N
N X
N a)
O L N N
a) 3
R
VU
U R a) s
O Q c a) =O
3 0 O
LU) a)
C ca
O
U)m
UL 0 a) cna3ca~ 6 w EW 3:
0
I~ 1cnRwna.-" a- ao"
M
O
0
0
N
W
U
z_
O
O
U
H
H
W
I
o
w
O
N_
W
Q
Q,
d
a
CL
5
c ~
WCL
me
N
N ~
O
O
O
s
r
O
U
O
O
V
N
C C C)
O W
cV M
T
d
O
0
A
C O o
W cm
co
0
0
C ~ Co
f- E O
ca CL 0) C
capc
a)
CLCa R s° m
F-
M a o ar3 a) t
a
U
z
o
W
0
4)
a)N
LCD
U)
N t
i N
c
rr
U
Via:
O
cc M O O
C
W a? Co
O
U t~ . c
I L Q-
c L
0
O o a?
Z O
A M vUjC co > Co O a) UN O N
iE
0 C
E N
BUD Q
0
co
a)
c
U)i
Q0~ a)
0
QEa
c
a)
N
ri E L c0 0 a~
s U c
a)
U
2C L-
M 0 7
N
U s Asa
C O) o
N
L- Q)
m Q C 5 0
L-
a) OL
N
C O N
V
C U
c
L
C
o CL~
o
U~ ai
F- O
O a) N
ai CL ~
O
v U s
M
O
0
0
N
W
z_
O
O
F-U
Fx~_
aC
w
w
0
N_
W
Q
a.
c
M
c
ca
a_
N
a N
cv : 3
p E
of m
c
oa)
m O CL N a
Q N
m c
N c
Q Qcu U) N
oo 00
C
CD C
Z
U
Ctf
0 tC a)
o
O
a
S CV
c t O0
Co j z u,
c
U) i5
o° mZ•°' M
E
CL dCVu
oo
O)~
E . 1.
O C
N
0
L
sa' oa
M U)
C
0
r_U E cC)O . U
a.. R
C6 m
Oa
Q 0 Ca
Vim=
V O
Q-
70
4E
m
m
CL L.
0 p O U)
70 - FU
O= c U N
0cu : 3
r c c
0 c N
O ca
0 U
C) c
0 p
a
U) °
ico
C O U ^
m
a) ~
Ncma) ac~ QErn
a E (
D rr a) ( Q
ao
a) O
E
c L a)0-
a)
Cp - 0 L a) U 0
o a) OC
Xc co
o N 0
c oo o
3 o
N La) c i
N Cc 0cum~> a) NM° a)
F- cu
a i
0 0 w CL - 0 a 0
U O Nca m a X
L O cr - o 0-0 E
s as v 3 a
o
N ca aCO
L
a
c
O o Da U~
cn
Q o" a)
c:
O N
U
L C O E a) O N M O c0> '
N o
y.. Q O L M C O L N a." U) . V O
O U a)
a) a) U)
a -
U) O o
N d ; ON CQ)
a
6)0
a)a
cu a
0
0
vL C cU
O Q. O a)
L
a) u) O c~ A " N> m O U O
a) c
N
D 0
Cc
0 0
CO
7 L~ '
U
A~ N O C
O~ V
0
10
V c~p U~ U O ~ 0U c
L
Q:3
C a)
O+r~
N o
V
Co - 0
Cc
co
U) C
U)
a) 0
0 3
3
7 c c 0 o N a Q$ O O
CL
co
C:
o a)
Z o o)
O a) c Co
a)
a) a) Q N N O x
0
0 0 a) a) s C`~ N c a)+ N rn~ s
C V f6 7 a) 0)
L
O O= O U) CL a) N M0 a ic
O E' cn a)
3
m m
c tQ Z > a i ia vc M 5v Qa) ~ 0 c 0N
1p0
E
V
N
a) U
CN
a) a a)
X L
a a)
0
0-
U L
M > ~ a)
C) " O
to E E
C a
O cn c
a)
0 O
d
o
2
a
N
53 a)
r_
N~
U
O
L
a
s - 2
O a
d c E>(D
2
O
D
O
c~ o
V N
a O
C
co
co
b
a) U)
2 E a`) c U) ca I- . c a a) c s > a . C i m a)E ac U E
am Q v m E c V Co p cv a) X oa
O
Q
O
Q
a) N
lC M
a
Q
V U 7 s
N (
u 0 y a 7 a) C V > 7
U c~aU Occa U m~ d m0°) ~- 0o ccc caoaavCl) 4-
M
0
0
N
w
z
z
O
0
U
F-~C
w
I
w
0
00
N_
w
Q
a
c
co
ui
c c
co ~
o E
cu
U Z
Q. O O Q)
Q
CU
CCU L Z
c • O
Q)
0 a~ o
a)
a?a
i
cu
o ° O ' O
d c
Cl)E 2 a)
U 'O
I
CLC
2
F+ e0
0m m
O p
O u
m
U co
C. N c O
C~
0Q o
O~ C
d
V i
M = 1
Cs- co O
p v
oL
to O E
O
N 0
0
1 O
L C
0
O
E to o D a)
O
0
C Or
O. O O C cn
3 0
CO b _ U)
O-
N
O
E m co
V O O
O
O ~ C
p a
c E M co co
o ~
c
vs
D
n~
U)
E ~ o
Co
o
CO Co
cm CO
F-
y o.
o E
c-
C
co o ~
c o c
C C
o
U)
sUJ
C
o c
C
Co
rn>
CO
c
E - Q Ot
O N N O co
V Z' E
0 O0
a) L) Q E
fro - p
C O O
V ~ i U
C d O
a) a)C
a) C a.
U) CL
7 L O
cp N
O
c r C C C
c s O O pCM o a) E o-0 > w o
o o
U
O CL
p
O
Q. O
Q
O ~
i ~
O r+ O C
0 0 O
L
co a)
O " O
O) o U - a)O
N 0
co
O O co
U
O c.
O
0
L O
U a) N
0 0 a) -p
Fn U •c
p L
O M 0)
O
L
p •N O~
to o C
r.
Q O
C L
C C> C N
C
C : 3 c U C c O N
Q O Q~ U) -
v
v
O
L
i
r
O O
O O a) - 0 U
E
O C
co E c E O O C coC 00
N
3 O a) La) j
a) o
CL o - O N 0 O C> E£ s
N
v
2 M U
QE N O O M O m O C O-o E co Oa)n
C.E
N
mU s° EL
L ( A
Ooo
L t L
0- cN
L
c( n
N LO O
a)'- coa~~
c O
a)
C
a
O a)
C
c
E ? O
t
N s
c
L p to C N>
p 0 s
V U E O
U
O O 0O
s Co N U CL C
C -
C
O
O
O L O C ' C
C O
N y V
U
U)- N .E U co _ U O in O O
cl
0 0
4) 0
U) a)
O 0
Q
o
N
N
O
O
y
O O
O
d
a) cB C
O C co
E o
Q A N N O O a) C
A N N C.M- O U)i
O V a) N V O O co a) V N Q
O
O a E v
F
x O o( oOcl- ~ o OOO c3OE° 7co 0 27
Lo os O 2 ~~•~o
a) d t- Q cA IX a a U O - c cA
N N CL U to U P w 0 - v 7 E w
M
O
0
N
W
z
O
O
H
W
I
w
O
C~
N_
W
Q
a
c
co
y
c ' c
CU
E
O
E
cu O
d
a
Q N O N
fl 4-Q
C . O
cu
L
S
C
M N
0ao
a? ,o
Co > o
00 °
E
c
E ° O
CD "'a
r 8-0 CL oa
M~ 0
f+ tQ 02
L) co
co
C , N c o
c~
m
a Sm O
O~ c~
co = 1
Go U
M O
3 C O ON
it i,
3 L O
L
U N /
1
va
y Li L CD 0) caU
E
U u)' c o U
C
mN C CU VU/ r+
U
q
ca
a E a) cq
oCo' I C C c 0 0
aU
Uco v; NOcl
a~ O+. U~ 0 U-
4-
6 s~
0~ CUEN.O 0 0
c
O~
N C..
a- c
cv'3
vi
o-c U" Occo'==O a- ov
ac D a)
3-(Dm d
C
U L 0) ° ~ 7
w C v c
a)
0- C
0 CL0 0N N s
0 M$ ~
N
O N c U) 0 O U a
C
c
00
v) aD
C~ D00
C-Q d Q a) i
N0ccv0 SU a0
ia
o0L~NO
d N C OO N co b U
Cl)
N CA = O) 0
O
V
C
U
O Q. N
0
E E o m
N
o Q A L
a)
O C C U U
CU
A-- U
L
EQ U a) CU cu
N
c~
U
w-- 0O
C. 2 3
U
O C:
O Co
V
U a-:) O N cC
M 4--
7C) NU
m
4--
C
U m
7 V
U U
caQ
C
C
CU
M Wc
cc U
E cn
Cv O
0 0 (n C
U c
U N
0 Q 0 7
C
N 0 0 N Q Co
O- p U C -
O CL 1=
0
m
C U U N° c
6 E L
76 N w N p N C
o
p N N 0 _ Q Op
O Cl) U)
N
V
U U) N A= c ca
O
U
N
0 Of Q m 0
Co
le - - a
C 0 0
O Ncn
C ' r L C 0 C UCO L U
cl) :
3 0 a) = - C
Q-
Co
U 3 ~ p U N
t t U C f0 ~ U t! O
0
o
U X O
N
O
0 L O
E
N
N
0
co C C Cu r- O
U 0 a j c~ E tQ U
to
c 0 c8
0
U N N O
C
O
7
U 2
O)
E E
C
O E
pC> X O E O U T (0: = 00a,a) a :
c
C U
Co
c
O
O ? 3N N
0 C Q)
cc~
Q. N
LO
A
0 caO C I-
ca ca
C L L . Ncc f- D C C:O
NU A c o
C
c N 0
C O
D
C
0 o
CL I- 0Ucq QN U 0 v i d 012 co a a Um IL 3 O'D N ~i
M
0
0
0
N
zw
A
O
O
U
GQ
X
W
I
o
o
w
O
0
M_
w
Q
a
C
cu
C6
CD
E
CU =
o E cri
cu
U d
zt+ Q)
Q ~ QQ
C > N O
Co `
C2
C > C
R Q) ~
a0 a
cC ' j rn
o °
E
a) cV
E 42- O cM
CL
U'O
Q- C aC
2
c: p
E -Z- z
cB cv p u M
ea 0- 0 V C/)
CO
C . N C o
C~
w".
O
m cc : 3
m tea
D o U
O
NO
6
r
L O
L
p ( B a)
a)
Cl) U
O C
L O
c
r
Q
C ca
0 0 t
CL
C:
mc° c ~ xw
Q1 O
4- C a) >
a) cn N c
E U
a) c to
O UE Y N
Cco
O
tn
O
O- O
H
O,N
a
O
O
0 -
O - a O)
a
a) rnca
Z : mQ0c0))
M
cv
C "
O
a) - 0
O
2c L
aN ^ E C
30
C:C U
O
r~~1U) tLf N a) r Q
p)
v CO
C p) p0) O N to ' O CC0
N O
O r
y_ U) - 0 O c N C O 0 c 0 m
7 O
0
o
N ~
L)
E
3
0~ ~m c:C
d'
C0)
O
0
E~L N Q CU OU
O Q. a)
E
C
p O p
V
O
t6
L to a) a)
L
cL0
L s a) a)
a) = 3
C U
O
CO
N O.
O
D
co N m
r CU Co N p pco
O C
C V N p C 0)/ C
a) N O N T C N C ( 0 fn
a) a) a) ( 0 L
M y A a ( 6
o U X
p o E O
n Q N O~ N
O O a)
LL x
a) w
Q
O
C V O_
U -0 ( n 0
S=
perL O
0 TO0 C:
L
a) a) N
V M
u) 0) ~ N
a) m w
O N O v
CCO
0
7 L
U) U) U
c ' O
O
d
L 0 C >
cu - 0
C
NO
co
L
c
ca
U
U
p 0
a to cn
C n~N 3 N
N U M O
N O C "O
cn S a
N U
O cn4-
L
C t 0 CO 'O
L
O
O cm r_
ca
O o) ' 0 ( a cu a) O
O ac)10
V
N
C
T 0 O f6
C C O
L
O t8 ) a)
C C U C
O O
t
NC
O a) C cd c O N O Q C NN O
a
fa p
O
C
O
a) fa O N L N O O 0
C
r-
L
O
a) N N
O C O) a N M
a a) A O cm a C a w a) D 0). L N 0)= A US U
O A V Q N O C
3 V co X 0 0
5
0 cu ca 0 0
C M
0- E
v C co
Q) c4
0) CL
O 3 c
O
co m O O N
ca a cm0F a U, 2 E- a 2 d E HOZ N a h- r
0
0
N
W
z
z
O
O
U
H
W
X
W
o
o
w
O
M_
W
Q
a
C
c0
ui
a)
c
CU =
O E
c
75
0
U C
aa)
N
CO
Q 7 QCU
C O
cu -
L
o ° r-•°'
E sN.
E M
c CL
2
0
m oum
RI
m
O - 0 U Uj
o
41 C aj ~ U
S
a.
a O
O~ c n
ca °
P C c
as - co a)
Do U
0L
3 C
ca cli 0 O
C
U) a) C
oS
O~
LL C
E
0 U)
U)
f/)
a)
fA
cu
d
0
00 cnO
O m
c c m O
U)
m - p
3
C O ca
C
a~i m 0 co cn
C
m C n
j
r.
m c
E
E
c m
rn=
c0
0 cu I ~
o
0
L°0- 0
a) caa)
V
co
EW -
0 0 aj ai c 0 c0 a) a)
N c22 : 3
O
Q)
N
E o c a) E E 0
C
L))
cn
Cc
c
ccnn
c
cc
E
N C vi
m
O Q
U U
C cn =
E
O m 0 a)
U m a) cn M
O
C- 0
O
C N
N
0 M 0-
r- ca Q) FE M C 0 0)
O
E Q CD
C
Q m O O m y v)m
V N O N
a)
0
0 UO E O_ Q
L O
E U C
CU
U y
A
Q- C 0 7 m U
s
t m O O
C 0 C
L
O C U °
C) a)
C
O
cri m m
U
m 0
O
to
L.
a) m 7 m
N m L U
L- D
c
CL a- - C
a) a)
O
Q
co c0= PO0 mO
c0 Ocn
c
C m0O a)0 a)
O cnnNN co.- a)rn0 N macne
m
ooc..C
a) N
w >
mrn
Ec m U
U
C O . Ca) C
cp
L
D
0 Q KCO 0 a)O m
0
m
0
m a) a)
a) ~ m
CL m
C 3
t O
C
0 - a•
O ° cn
m
C
O
L
a)C-
vQC
v7 0O m
Ca)
L
m N
mU)
0
O U
w m
sC. C
O
a)
a)m
m d 0
U O a) m CO
a) a O m m N E m O L
CO D a) omoL
mc 0 C c°- m
O
m C- C
N a)
ELw
C
O
N N as
mC
V
0
a)
0 7
O
O
m
m IV 0) p
16 0 •
a
L
a)
C
C .
m
O
c
2L
CL
Cc$ m
0 c
P
co C
cc
P
0U)
P N m 2.
w
o
O m
N V O N U t V C m v) V U O - O V U Co
c
cJ
V
s
0
0E - 0 O
co
o a m u a c a m L a o C
M
O
q
0
N
W
z
p
O
0
U
X
W
I
w
O
N
M_
W
Q
A4
c
cts
a7
O
c ' c
CU O
O E
cu
O
0. N a~ 0
o. 8 0 E
o. ca CL a~
c•
fo
o
L
S ao 0
a) CD
cu >
o °
E N
OE
pp 0C Q.U
O o c E = c
coC2
0- 0N
O U co
Uco~
A O
C cu U'
E 0
0
Co
co
D o~•U
O
Rf N
L Q)
L
V)
L
a)
s
c $
O c L
C
T
A
co co
Co m
v~
2
y
a
O0O v
a o
a) a) co co
a c vi c
a)
c =
c~ 0 E
ca
ai
v co co
3: 4
0: t=:= m a D
c
Nss
c
co
T
vc
U) : 3 N
N
O N~ a O Cl)
0 0 Q p U c0
ca
NU L O 0 ca
OO
Q, a)
E
s
N
CD
o Q
L
C c ~
c c
fo Q
o
A~ 0)- o
cc o~
p > E U
O O O ~ p N `
N O
2
04
j c+S 0 c
a) 0~ - C
CoO
La
a)
O N
M c ) m-
O
O t CD
p 0
N E N CO
3
c C
ca
O
E
v
N
Ea)
rn E C
p O G
p'
v
wac
j
a) o
E
5 - a
rn N ~ ( O.
O EE V-
O co
co N -0 O~
Q N A a) A K : A co
p V N c 0 a) a) O 0 a) •
a 20 a s o a co
M
0
0
N
W
U
Q
pz
0
O
U
E-~
W
I
w
O
M
M_
W
Q
a
1)
a c
Ca C V
c
cn O
U)
N t4
N
O U)
C
N c U N p U
CU
d y cn
L)
C O
O O ui p 0
L
1) m
Cu
O
c
C
s c s
U
m
CU
s
M a)
Co O
75
Y dN to Ui Y c Cn c
O N C N O N
j C a o pO
Q- CC C C
C
C
co L a
C> Cu w
Q
3 0
U
a)
O D mm a) OU
C.)
C
Ca
Q
r
R d C
M
U N
p CO U N L N
N
O O D M
0O E~
Cu A N N V CM O N N 3 U
N N
o 2 v: co
r_ La c m 0
L
0
oCD
E
C)-
d 0 d 7~ C-- d oO
o~
L-
v
Q O a
U) D Q)
Q- ZM'- c~ 3
C U Q. O N 0 N r-
d
0
U
C
a
GCUCc 0
N sc Q) v ND;a mLD
N
E 0)
m O p U 3 O - a c N~ M L c
ON'' C V O L C
v- U w 7 m a)
Cu
RI w
D
r
Q) E 0
O CS CC O
C~ O
70 Q)
3
L
o c o
U
a
N CV)
m
a s~3 o-
L
tF a) an
i
a
a U)
D
R
c N
7 Cp Z7 V
C
N m N C
Q) 3 N
O d C CV
C fn
C
N Cu : 1
c m a ca
a
v le
Cm
O
ai
uc C:
r a)
T-
O
CL -0j u U v m c v u
L
o
0 603 o m a) o o 0 o o w - e o
C9
0
c v u La a a a a a c v A s a a zaD
N c
c
c S m a' a
a
a~
G E E
Co
c
s a C s
ci c
O
c~ o c
u~ p w E N. c
ca
VCn c c Q'~ Q Co
p ox m° aa
3 L cu 0 scorn er
o a OECc
0`-'
ca
N - O
a N
c
p
oar
L
0
Cr
O
camcc`
a)
co o
rn-
a) c
O to
L Cc o`)
Ca
0c0
Iwo
C C
0
Ca co
I C
C m
a) 0
v
N
c
Co
C C OC L a)
4
4- s2 a)0
0 N C
O
N
E
N N N
O 0)
N
CO) "
X a)
0-
N
O
N a)
U)
EC
L t
d . N
U a)
C U C
rn -
Co
C
U)
0
N N a_
0
N N
Cu
Co .
C C
O a-0
e,
O L O
a) 4) OQ. a3
0 E -c
t a) " a)
L
0
N
Q o
O a) 0 - 0 0- 0
O CN
o
QO C
O C C O U
4-
0- 0 w
C O
C
U) Q-
a) 0
c EEa-
N
N ~
O
C
c
Co
V
06
co a) s ew L-
Co
N( D
N CL C
m 00
a) >
0xo
O N
N
ca) EO O N
co
L
a)
rn
C C U) D N s 0 L C2
C
U~
E>
0 r Q a) a
o U
a) N O N O C N 0 O 0 s
C:O
C L
st CL
0 Cn V
0 Q C C
0 c
O > a
D 0
0 a) c 0
o Ca)
w iUU)
Cu Q
L
060
O U 0)
N
O
v i cE
to Ca E a)
0
o p rn
Ca rn
0 a) 8
N C
C
CO
4. 0
C 0 c 0
c 5
O
a)
c
Cu N
C t a) r_v co 0 a`) U)
Ca ia) a
v 0)0
Z3
O v v L
N C C rn
o c N cos 7
L
o O
U Co 0 E m
O Q O 0 Co N N
CO
c E
C L U c cco
a) c Q C
Q
O
O O O
ocv
L
o
N N
c
O C ca
O
L~ co
O 0 0 .U
a) c
C
12O U C
QZo
L E
Q a)
I- C
co
F- M
C
a Co
L_
N N
oC L
N
o
a) 0
a)
N
O .
F3
r
C2 a) O
mN
P
O
s
0
N
j
C
Co
C~ Z E
o
NC
CC9 •
co
C c
N c co
Co 0 N
C
O
C C 0
I- O
o
O N Q O O N E
c.
Ca
o
O> N)
CL O N C p a
C7 C9 ~ 0
C
3 t9 a) c.) co ~ . 5 0 26 -CT E a
M
O
0
N
W
z
O
O
U
W
I
o
O
M_
W
Q
a
cu
N CD
c
C6O o C) E L-
W
C CU
L
N
L
O
O O N C
O O
3O O
E
p O p
0) O
O E O
o"
cu cu
1 - 0c O~ 0- 0
O
U
Q
r-
O
0
O O C t~ U N m o
cu 0
U O
o Q E o
N O
Y 3
CC O L D C N
OO75
Q N O
N
O m Q t
r
N
O
ca
C
a. O
U
Q' CQ
Q
C
CD U E0-
p Ca
p O U
n
CO O CU Q
a) C
CU C
IR
0 O
O L
C O
O
R a C O cp N
O
L
C ' N O
N
U) cO
W 3 Q± O N
O c
II o N
CL - Q
C:
CO
fB
O O ~ L
U 4)
L . a
CU
CU N
C
O
C
L
N N
O
N
O O
0
a) U3
D
a
U) N O O O
u) ~ N
O
E
a
E cm
0 0)Of a) a) o
O O C}
0
C U p
N Q U C W
L C
C
r~ 1
LL
U V)
O N Q.. N
U Q O E
pO
C U " 0
Q
N
CO
D
E Cd
O cn O
Q. w
N
L
O
L ca E
C:L O
U
U C7
Q Q
U
O
U M
E
n
a C
U ca
O
0N CD
O U
c U) C:
N
O
0
U
S2
o
v N 1 C E m~
N
L a N
O
C ui O C
L
Nr U
cN
a
V._
tc c a) d~
L N
p a
Ri CO
O
OC
ConN C r O
N
R N 3
O m
OQ
i
U
CO
L)
0 3
L O
w
c L
3 L-
00
mN
c a~
c
3 c
v i
N O CV S- C C-4
o
L
C6 O O
N N O Q C-4 N
L
N
Nd
r o QCo(D ACC cN a ~ t m~m 4 a) E cn o
cu O 0-
15 Trn. v o~ v v a o v o w
O
s' UO~
o
U O
a
p E
U)
O
C
H O N
a
O
O
0- 6 O 0 o N o
U
p
c i
O
C9
a o_ U a Q~ Q C9 U c. n a 0UwH a U U) a
0
co ,
a, LC s o s mm
OC v O
a)M
0 FL O O
N O to E ' L
m
N-0 7
Q)
C
N
rn
O-
QV
L U N ' L O
C ?
a
M O
O N a) N
O
C
C O
m En
O
C
m
C
C
D
0 R
N- 0
ma o a sca
s
d m a D r+
O
un v O cn O c y y
L O
C
r-
C C:r.
G~
D
to O N O
7 ( 8 V U)
p
p
L N
J
CB s
m
O
U
N
O
A~0 y= m~ cn
0 CQ=s~ o
O O C L,_
4-
U
O
O
O . O
Z N
0
O O ( 6
N ca o to N
E " O
C2
NU •c
V O
O
c Cn
co
rn~
p c
ca
cLN
U
O N O O O
N s 0a) O M O
a cu
ca
O O
a)
D n C
O Q L;
CT3 U- - 0
m
O C O
ca
C A
ca
O
L N N
Co
O L
0
O E'Q C " per L.- a C O O C a' N
c V O D O
L F+ N to c c m O N E U o cn
c
N~
co C
B- 0 C
m
p C
O
C
a)
O
O C p C O
Co
C N O Q CO N0
L
0
N O
p
C Ca Q~ N
p L
O ~
U O O C
O N p N ca C N o N>
CU
N N co
a) m E O a. 0
L
U
0) 0 `
c
0 L a) 0) o
a
0 y
Q
a ar
Co
c ca v~j
c
C
O U C ?
E
N E
O UO U)
C= C=
O c c O O N O 0
N O
L- t U pU O - 2
L
00
C0 N
N
U N
O O
O
N
s C U
O N
UCD 3 U 0O O m ca a)
0
O O Q
Ca 4-- N L
L
a C 0 N C6
0
0 0
0 N 4 - O O C
O
p o n
O C N
3 0O Co O" 0 cc CO O) o O C L-. 0) S ca E
oE s_ N 0>o E
T c oQo Co o
Q O
L
N tC p Np) N N OU
s O a) N U L O
O
EC y
co CU C
C O a)
U 0
L
a)
cn
O V C N
c> ~ oW
CO
4) 75
U
0)
L
O
U m
F- M N U N ~ ~ o O Z C O c D w o a Z O
L O
p
O Q O
E Q N a
CO
O
O
Cn
LcV
U
O C6ch U - 6.
O
r
Q CV Ch N
O
M
0
N
W
z
z
O
O
U
W
I
o
w
O
W)
M_
W
Q
a
a)
L
c
ca
0 U
M
0 0
oy
ui a u o aa) _0 D
C
co
U O a)
L (
6 Q) O
O c
U
O
c cn
oC
ca O L
O
U
3 O co O L
3 L A co
ccc U N
0
c E
of
a) cco
0a
o~ c o cn6c
Uoco
coo
m~ ate)
0 0
a)
c~ O C6 Q 0 C M D a) L
C
7 U
a)
G) E 0 U 0
f-
E N
0 Cc
O
c
Q
Co 0
C
to
o
7 Co
a) c b
co U N O U
L c ~ to N N
a)
Q C
c c
c
C
O Q. •
i N O U
O
a) c c
c N to a
ca
c N j O)
C
O - 0 O a) C -
A 0 ° N M
M
L
O a 0 o c
n
c E 0m
0 a) U O
0
0 0
C: U
E
ca .
O
a
4) c 0
a) o
caM
3 N
M c) o
N
Q-0
o
CD0
E
L 0
0)
c0 0c
Q 0
CM
c ca O c
N
0 p
p L
N N
C
L
o U- r
r
D co c 4
a) E
o Y
L
a) N s U
n
c
o 0
CEo
f
c0
4--
cn a) O
c a)
O ~
n
cn
p N- 0
x
N M
c N
C 4•.. d co to N c L co
CD Of _ 0
C U -0 0.
N to
to w u0iU O
Q)
a)
p)
O
N O
co ca
W
O
E o
a) c
N
0
0
0 a) nm O co >E
Q to
o~
a)
c70
o U o s 0 Ac
L U- 0 a) a m 30 a)
O a) a) O
O LL C a V N cU6
a) U
O N
C Cn 4-- C a) co
O c w
L0 U
c0 U L O
a) co 2:1 0 L U
O
a Q) ON 0
N
a)
c
cn
N
C
O
cn
3
t
U
oL EO3
A - N
M }
c
r
C) .
c to 0
L
L O Q 0 ~
0
Q
3
C
1 LL
E D C:) O
ca O
Nd
c
ca
a) c0
Q
c
co > O
cu w 0
U
O
c~ o1
O a)0
N L
Q
cV 00
co
c c c
0o u) 3
3
c
o
6
E~w
n
a icn a c on` oA 0
a
Co
L
a) a
C O -
L- o U)
O c a) a)) a) p
L
g)
N O
Ali O L , V a. z C6 U- o Z L w 0 I.. L L U) Q~
O
O O
c c
U
a U O . S
0) 4-
O C
to
C O O O N
m =
3
C N
N
a) A U)
U
O
U co
a
c
c L
a)
co c - 0 a)
0 c co 0 c L C
U) C Q
O O O
o0 0 0Q 0a0- m
a)
N
E oc E>
m 4
V c
0) r
u
0 N
via)
8 E
a)
a)
0
00
0
0 N
o"~0)
c
oo
L
t n
C N
ca
a)
cocA• a) Cn
c3 U
w m u) a)
cQ
0- 0
a O U O C C O v C o U_u) O cos a) C
M0- a
O
C c 9 co
a)
C
O Q-U O- D-OU0 0oC 0L S
Q 0) 0E~ 0
U)
0 cc
U
0
S
U
o
NcQ) E(a
c > E
L
ca~-
a)
L rcc0i~
r
a w
a)
vc 4) v i a a) a) 4) 6 c = N
N L
v d N c c
ca
O c~ U N
00 • coa)
a) to vi C. Q -
0
c
O
w
o Q- c
CO
o
a) U Eo MU0
UO0
Q0 mo 0 0
oL E -Q
U
U) - 0
m c
E~ OOQ Eco u)~0
42)-c' °
C:
c 0 O co N ca Cc a)
O c cn
N Oc
0 o
C UO
M 0) W
0 toc to
Q a) N
c
d
o
O U)
a-
O c O
0 - C cu
E co
U
0
N c oEcEa
U) Q)
0L ca
0~
a)~ Q oc
0-0 o ca
c
a)
2 C) U C;) 3 a) Q 0) E
0
Q
a en Y I
0
r
C
a)
U o c
CO)
N E N
a)C a)
c
a)
U
V
C O O
CU M L
A
ti. a) a
C M _ U
U
L c
E N
U 04
a) Q L
c fo E
0 "
N
a
m
0 V o M
N L A> u (
0 - 0 a) Z o
Q U C
N
a) 0 a)
O a)
a)
N O I N O L U O C O .
r N Ca 0) p 0 N O
o 0 o
a) E c Q
o
N
c
co c W
N co t c (
to > a)
4)
0
4) c
a) w o
c
O E
c o
N
cai C,4a~ oca z M M0) o
0 0
tN
U w C)
o
O, a) U
a% 0) E=
7 s to N D N m co N s
NL
U E
A U)o
X
a)
c
w
5 Va) 0
os U U
N O L c
3 CL -
E . a >
o
V
C3N W Q a)
E= c
0
F-
ui CO so ca
c d o L- Qs 42 =
E ~
6U U U a U ORm a 7a ca c M Q a
M
O
O
N
W
Z
z
O
O
U
H
X
w
I
o
w
O
M_
W
a
C
cu
a)
c
CU p
C E
o
E4 -
cu
v7 a)
am
O~
p
oCL cu a
C
C
L r-
3
a?.0
cu 5 Np
O 2
N
T:
E
C'
O
d
O
i
O
O O Q U
0 Q)
0m
N
p - a U
C
R iii
3 p01-
cu = 3
N
cu
CD
a)
f - (
1)o
0
L
cu
N ~ =
3 viiC
c a)
0C cn
C.)
cn
E
cl) a)
C CCU = O a)
L
C:
a)
cucu
vim
c
a~i0 a a~
0- co
o °N° a'~
a' 0 aa))° a~ iEo
i
cu3~>, a) sDC
L
d
C N
a
c
a
0 cp to
L
C
C - a U
0 a) -
L U C a) L
N
cu " a O
C
p.°
C
m
V cn
cu0OO
s
NL Omens a)
t 3 4--
cu~ Oa)Co O NCO-0 0)
4) : L- m IL co c c a) U)
cu a) 15 0
U) 0
C j C O O 1) coa) U 0 N
U) - C ' N
o C
v) o
O
Qc) cn0
C)- -0
0 C a) Ncna)~
L
cn- o ~ a) CU
Q cu
0 0
a)
E
0
0
CL >
a) CU U) 1) C
c
Ca) CT3
V) CU -C C: a)
C C
ca CD
Ch
M
Q a O
U
d . N a s C
a
C
a a) 0 O a c i
j
Co 0 0
C
v>
0,
O
0 rn 0 N co
O ° a)
QQE•
a)
r- N L: gL-
Q) Q
G
i
NL CU
O ' a) C
Co
C
a
C a)f4
v c
Q
p
Q
O 0)
N
A C V
N 0 Oco
v
C
C
a) C N O
a) N D
cu
O V
sC 0
a)
CC: AE O
CL M : 3
C U C 0
0
3 C')
L
CU 012 Q
N N
3 N
a- C
s> C
U 0
0)75 c OQ N 0 a) N O
O
0
U U a)
O Q a)
Q N a O
to
V
a) p0 L
N
C
a
N -
a)
a)
a
a) a) N 0
E U c OU)
C N V
d Q O 0) a) a) s
v1
cu
N
cu
aa) m
C Q a) O
cu
p j
L
U U
C
CU
n O
Oa) N O O cu c
L co C X L
r~+co a) a)
C U)0 s to
s
V
0 O U a) 'N Q
C
LOO
cu
U Q N C m
L O a - 0 C a O
a
UO
d
a N
L a)
O NQ
a 2 a)
N
N - 0
U)
a)
a) t
cg U O
p tea)O cu E EL w oN
O G
C
O - O - p
pu C E C
L 0)
O
a)
N 0C
y N
C E E a O 7
O 7 -o C a
o a) O
0
L
a) Cu O A
O "
a c A A U) 5 O N Ca)
2 E
0 a)
a)
L
D a
a)
U)
to c
cu a) N
Q
O 7 a)
Q
OCL co lC U) N a) 0
N
0
H
E2 CU Q C
V a) coV° c E
0
Z > E
C ( u CO
r s L a)O
N
O
a
C O C O C
C
E a) a) 0 0 0 7 cu L o
U. U co - 0 L cu U S L_ 0 a U a m cu w- 0 U U U 6 Q L cu c a
M
0
0
O
N
W
z
O
O
U
E-'
C~ny
G
W
I
O
r
M_
W
Q
f~,
C
cts
ui
a)
cv ~
o E
0 E
U d
Q a)
O O
Q. co Q. O
C.> N
0
L' C
a-Q
a? ~
M ' 5 N
O2 r
E
CL d
E 0- O
pp
C U ~
0'
N
0
M
C: E U)
r-+
N
C)
0
c
M c
M OO
0 CD
N co : 3
T C: C:
O ~
p a)
0 ~ 1
N C" M
b. :
D
L
o O m - c a
cc f° m
U)
c
a) .
scaM
FL E
O
O
N
0
vi
0 1) ca > 0
cn
N ca s=
0
O
0) ODc L- 0
a) o
L
CO
0)
c O a)
2~-
I 0- 0M70 Q n Oc 4-- c cacn CO cow
ca
C
N
c°
c pa)
0
C
s CD
a) o
c
a)
D m~
ofn~
a~ o3 c ic s
ca N0) c
0 : L- CU
0
a. ca 0ca a) L-
0 0
co cm w
um) - ac)0 C
0 r
cD E
0- : 3 ca
700
Co - 0
0 O
cc
cO Oleo
N
L--3 N NC
U c
N a LU ca - r
a) a) O
N
c0 U a) 0)
a
M
CON
0 t o 0- 2 0 0 cli -0 0
w a) O 0. L
O
t a3
o
f0 a) Ca
O
M U U C a)
Q D
W
0
a)
w E ca 3: 0 c c
a)
C 0Ea>>N- c)_ a.0) ~ o
o a)
ZCL0
U) c 0a
oI
L
0
c
rn m -d cn o acn m o 0 ca a)
D
C
n 0M U)~
ca U
0
CL
US
vic> ~
O
N
L
U
m Laa)
00 0
o
p
C O U U C p E E
a)
0 Q
Q r E a) o U c
C co
0
N
mU 0
0 i Q O
O
C L U) p
O
0
c Q
U
0) + r Co a) L>
CU - 0 O
2 0 0 E a E 7
D
a) a)
O
Q N a) O
0 U
a)
0
Q
0) v7
Q
L 0
ca c 0
4? Z'
O
p U
N
a) a) O E
c
0 U) N
U a)
0 a) M
C: - C
a) o
o W
t n
n
0 '
E vi
v) U
U) v
c iOa
w+
c
WE~
o s
co
s d
co~ 0
c
N o
Uai
o
a)
S
Q
L pU U
a)
N
L0-
C U fQ 0 0 C
0
U
U
O
o a)
C>O
E U
o
E
N L O
L `
U >
U 7
U
a) 1
Ua)
to •
U
p
O0 ( D
co c
E
3 U) w - W
u)E
0 ca L)
0)
C13 CL
oO D o-0 s CU
0) u) - u)
c o a)
E a v)
C
3 cn 0
T O cu5
p E C
U Q 0Q
c
a)
O
ca
0 E -
0 a) Z In c)
D
Co U E-0 a U ca E cm
a) 2
Q. a) p 0) L0 ( ca ca
0
U C a)
3: E
N Q
E
0
0 U) X Cc
r- O U O 0
iU U
F-
a i coC m
co w E v a) o
cl
E ca a) U c c E
a) N 00 - CU L 4
O a)
0 " 0
a) s a) O U
0 - 0 DZ "0 U o
to
0
a)
U)
U
a)
C C L co
a Q) a w 7
a) ca
C + r
0
a) c O
U 0) U
0
N
W
z
z
O
0
F•~
LTa
I
O
00
M_
Gil
Q
a
c
m
N
E
c E
o
E
ccu O
5 U
Q a)
O
Q ca Q
c co
cu
3 a~
a) "D
N0
o 2
N
a
d
OO a)
p
C U CO
Q
m ca 0
N
p U
c
o
c
o
u i
N d ca O
c c
lQ ca a)
co
NpQf N
ca
N c
co
N
c
L- U) LZ5w
N
ML
o
cca a) U) ~ p a) cc . 2cc . 2
o
E L-
E
Q- a)
ca~ c~ a)
0
cn
L a)
cl) a)a)
0
Lcc
a)
a i
CL : 3
c
d 2
o ca
Q
0 a)
N N
2" C O V cu co U
L
La) .o C
9 C ca
3
0
O
ca O a) p a)
c ca Q. ca N 0 . 2) a) cn
c N
o ' c c
a) - C
a ca cm
N 3
Z a)
v
ca > FU O O
E co C
O O L
L N
U) cn ( n
a)
3
O, Co
Ec
ca
cu IL cn
asc U- 0~ Oc CC
m C C j
a)
V A O
4-- ra) c
o CD
Cn N V N N
0
N
ca
N
p
3
0
O L 3
N O.
a)
L L
O L
N co
0D
O U
c O
E c X
ca a) m
L O
L r 2
L
c
o ca0 0.
L 0 S; 0
C
c
s c c ccnn 0
V V O c
V i ' N a)
C
U - C
00 0)
0 O L 0
c r
c- 0 N
a
C
O0 N E L r
0
0p
L
C. m
2 N O
Oca ca c
c3c a)
0)N
72 E ( L )0
to
a)
N
C N C
S L
0
Co O
U E c c
00.- O
Q p a) O
C CU
N 0 72
U m
o a)
C O 3
c
O 0- 0 E
U)
U
U w
C C O
a)
N
L llt• C0 r oc cnN> EE o oca
N a sC) 0 QV a)0 pc°) Ewa) C'> rn y
v (
1)
L
o
V
V
a
N
co
Cl)co
a)3 co
L
c - p caCU
cu - a) N Esc a c a
a) O
CIL2
U V a) c
N
L-
c ca O) U) O U
c 3
Co O
o
O C L
fa
L
O
c d
7
co
c 0
N
a) ca o
a) UU E a p c N
L
c
O t N
a) 0) N
U) U
o~ N N
Q 0- 0
a c E
a)
Z
U
ca E o
a)
L
c~ ca
m-
a)
p
E
v
to co
c to cn ca of - 0
N
O co0 Q E N L
N
p O
d
G
N U
0-- ( n Q
E
C
fa o N Q a) 0
co
c O E
E
ca
Ca L ca
3 N O U 3 C U Q
0
0 - o
ca)
am -o onsc
U) •
L E
cn cnai
C " a C t0
3 0
aU N -a
Eaa)
E cu Q
j
caE m
c ti
L
O O
c ca c A a) - c b
3 N
O cn - 0 ca ~
d
X
s
U
M o ca . r A
C
X ac Q D a) 0 m ca Co ~co
3 0) 3
U a w L 3 a) OU U) ~ L O
Co C O
w a
cn
a
C C U O
co
U U
c a)
v
0
EvU)) 6c na cd 0 10CDc o ci~c aa c~a a cd
d
0
N
W
z
O
O
H
W
I
w
O
O~
M_
W
d
a
c
cu
3 ui
a)
p
c
CU
E
c
co
U a)
0. ( D a
Q. cu Oc
O
N
0
s- C
L. O 5 co
a -
Q
a? -0
y N
O 2 C ~ t
sd
o m o
8-0c
O
CL 0
cu
N
o
o
v
c
0 0
c
a)
N Re
acuM - 0
L.
O
N
cu
c m v
N
L U) 0
C U
coN
cn
a)
O
O
r
co
R N co O
o- . 0
zD C
n 2
U
O U a)
a)
a00
0 E
a) u)
U a) c.- c"o
v
mc•Vso
v i
co U)
a)C
a)
aO,a
0) c
7 a) co
L~>, U ca) o
a c
o E~
E cn
a) co
Q •a) R 2 •N C 7
N N
a) cn N a) O' a) C
4-- to
0 t- cu a- o
U O
0 4--
U O p E 0 c
NO j
0
0)
a) o U E s 0
a) a
U U -
pCh
a m
p
ar+
2
N s;
N
Q) o
C N` U
co + 0 . c
a) 0L L'
L
M U
a)a) O
cA N C
a
O a
Mn v c
O L to o a)
L
a) a)
v
0 C 0
o a) a) L L 0. 0) U) o ca
C
U O N U U U + L C a) O 7 N O ir N
O
i
Q. L O t
N c0 c0
E
U a) O
N cn
mN
0 U) U)
co a)
a) E -Q
N A a) O( O N flq) g) C m p a) X
L C
CS V a)
Cl)
cu
L] ' O ~ O > 0 cuV to L) 0
U
O
CO
cc
C Q U)C CU
CU o6 3
o a) a)
2 0
r
a) ~ 75 a) o 9 a)
L M
O
a) O - p
a)
U n~ c co a) J
c c
a)
p C
a)
a) a)
7pN
c c co
o4-_ O
L p
N
E- 0
c
ov- 0HE
0: 3 U)
Cc-0 0 up) U
m
a) 0
C
OL
0 E0~ caNa)~ 5= a)a) c- 0rn wE
O
C 0V
p
V- cE co
coo
oa) crn
a) c
s~ Ea) UE~
u C
0 c O L
s
O O V ca N C- V ca - Q -- 0
L n
03 a)
a) = U E L O a)
O N
U
to
E U) O
O E N E L a) co U o a) 5 c U
p O D c co U vi a O O U
N 2 s' c o.. U
fl M
3
N t Q"
tea))E a a) O " 4--
U
t
U
N C p
O E ao a) a) 3 . a 0 02 0 2 ca
8- 0 c ~ c co rte. U)
C'N
Q a)
w
ai
a) cn -a
Q C "
O )
a u) L L
NX O ca
o U
a):3 a) cncv O
c
woa) oa)L
N N
m
cnv a)
w0Ca
a)
rZ~,t c E a) o aO a) L C
a)
a) O a)
0 O C
L
U ca 2o cC
vcn 6 Ecwco cicUc 6 m2O ai." m a maco a m
M
O
0
0
N
W
U
Q
z
0
E-~
L~
x
W
I
o
w
O
0
W
Q
a
c
ca
N
CD
c
CU =
c E
o
E
U75 d
O. N
ZQ
p
Q. O
L
a-Q
0
co 5 N
O 2
O
pam)t
0.2
0- 0 0. 0c
MN
Q)
0
ct)
O
p - 0N
U
c
O
N d
ca a)
0 - E5
0
a)
O
O = C o ca
C%4 = 3E cn 0
ir-
1~
Co a) 0
Cc
c
a)
C:D M
L
a)
n o
FU
co
E
v a)
a)a)
O
a)
p E
a)
a) $
c
M
N
L CU
D
ca to
0
N
d a)
a)
U
r-
i Coa`
v
a) - C co
p
j.
c
Q a)
CU
U
co
Co
c
a i
C
cuv
c
c
Co c
p.
m
ca FA
o Co
ca
0 o
v
c
ci j)O - s
c M Co
c a~ cn
C
a 0 0. 0 O c
p
p
E a o N 0
Op 0 a) co
0)
cn ai co U U V Co
N L O C
O) - p 0 o
Lp a) O w
w
L
E
L p . c
Q d
co 0
ca a a) O o o N a . E O
D CO
a) ca a)
c
N O
N co s f0
cn
0-
O
O
s ca c a) - 0 = 3 aci c- AM
U N. V
L
N
7
a)
L a) s a)
Co = C
c0
0
L O
L
Q. M N E w A O
s ca p
C
o
0 pE p N co
a) cn
O 0)
00
c
O a)
U)
p 0 ca N
p
U vi
a
7
c
a)
c
o O C°a p a) w.
c
2 c
a)
o
L
u
ca~
a) 0) 0 c
cUa) aoi c
o ca
aa)- 3
s a)
E
c
Via)
c c cn c
E O a
O) o
U N W w ca
c O Li
a)
h
p N O 4) 6o
r a
ca '
5U
c
o
ca
d s
0 7
ca
N c
72
Q- C:
a) O a)
N O0
L
O a) E
a)
v
a) a)
o N
c NV
p
L- 0-0 os0oE
ca
E E
ca
c
Ecsnc°vE()
c) - c
a)
o
2
o
p
12
a
y c
a)
a 0 ca
p
O O
p 0
U
0
c
C
L
a) t
4? c
a)
s
o
c U
E M U
caO Co s ca a)
a) c
s N C
a) ca
O
V c fa ( a
L a)o a) p
M p p
CD U)
n > a) E a)
N
v O
d
D ca
y
a 4)
a
v c
U Q n
D O$ c
O
r
O
p
O
ca a) ° c
a`s ° CD
c
ca N
O p
c°)
a R)
n
Q. 0" Q- ctn N
o ca ctn mo N.. c a)a)
Q aa) o° v0)
a
o a`Di E a)
cn
n
a
c
oo E
c
m
o
a) U c c0 L
E ~
L w act w a ui M
a Q . Qa)
ci L co
c
o
12a ) a ai
0)
ca
c o
a
3
L1 L ' p _ Q
CO) r_
6 2- 0 sU L to
a
v ca
en
O
0
N
w
U
Q
Z
O
O
GG
X
W
I
D
o
w
O
w
a
co
c r
ttf 3
c E
O
E
cc
O
Q. N
O a
Q- cu QO
C.> co
co
L
tC
FL -0
d~
CVp
O 2
y
v
E
CL d
ct
OE d O
pp
C CL
NC)
CUCc
N
p - p U
0
c
CD 4--
3
OM p
CD
c cn
co 3
N
r
4-
Nco
0cm
N
cv
W
O
C
R3
C
O
C
A c0
c
O O
CN
O
Ncc
4) 0
cm c
C
O c
0)
r.- ,
Cd Q c c6 c
Mn
c c
p ° Q"~ N N- C N co p 0 ~ -
N 0) cn
CO- N O E p C) O O [ 1 E c0 0 U
O IL U O
s canN
D U m . c
s 3
Aso O L N
r+ cn
C
p
Q M
Q
C0
N U O
C
OC NE
0
N to C c E
U
0 N
N
2 C
N U .
0
N
a) C
o0) - 0
O m
D VO
2,
O
c~' pV
O
V ~
c
O s
N Nr~+L L
L
v
Z fII L
0 0 ( D
7
4) M cn o 072
O
L
Q. ~ O
U
s c3
a
c Z) v- s O
UO
Q C 0
cu
c ' c c
0
O
Q=Q
i
o
s
cU
Q O
a) s Q O
s c cv ( J)
N s
N
E 2E O ca
O
m
U
c
p C
Co
M V
6
s
N
C
a) p C0
Qc 0-5
O C CO)
O V
Ocu
N mA0 co M0
vOiccua
cao
vp~
o
0 : D
0c cn~ OC
pa)
a
3
7 O O N
i
O
Q s
ii rn cm O
N
cn
c
0 U
U
N N E N
Z O it
c O
m N>
O- o a)
E S
N
O 0- c Q
v i
U) =
O I) m V O
p
C Q)
N N A
6
C
u
N N C
Co N
O
N> N
C7 0 ca L
L C O
O
A
N C s 0 CU U
C
p
a N c L
c ca
0) r-C O Q M L L L y N
C c
O
aa)
O V C C C O _ C O
U O s LU L
L j
O co
cB ca caA
d L C L E E c L c 7 O
L
O " c
u) C c c
7 O
O
0 O o Z) a) - 0C„.0 C~ ' a
0
0
c c
00re U 000
O C
ca 0 0O C
00 4--
N O 0 c C
CL N O
r
O O
OD
C 06s c
X C N O 0
C N
L
N
L E
c O Ow T
0 V E ci
w C F- Co N O
c
a Ig
O
O
N
N
N
a
N~ Q)
w
Fn O N N N
C
cn
r
O Q O
L-
Q . N c
5; = 3
O
cc C w cd-0U 6 - 00HH 3 TI cc o S cm 6. 9 L- Q H
M
O
0
N
W
z
O
O
Cq
X
W
I
o
w
O
N
W
Q
a.
c
cu
m y
a
C ' c
CU =
c E
o
E
0ca
c5 ~ a)
CL a)
0Z c o
ca Q.
N
a-Q
O
O 2 V
E
11
0E
d
cs
m 0
r- 8-0 C0
O
O
N
0
U
c
OM :
3 o
Ncu
vO C .
0 ( 1)
cf 4-
p C L-
N • C O vi
a
a)
a) V
O CD
m~~c C) Cca) cn o ac S OOD a)-C cya
L
d 0 c 0 a) 0' O
y
O
d~ c oa m
co
E
OFD a c s
a) c
Co a
C C c ca L N C
ay
E a L
coiO a
a Q.
a)
i cn
U
ca
m
ca co E a) Z
V s
ca
Co m cu L C
CL
cu
a)
m
O ' O
L ocnu N" o ayi c' acos_ O~~a L
jp
y
o
co a)
c0 a) 0) O
a) O I L
0
yO7 -
a)
co
N : 3
E E c O Oo M o 6o oa
CD a~+- c
Q O
d a)
O L 0) Co + O
O E C O QU N
y N
a) - C C c6 O Z
C L
O C O
EO
N
U) 2) c a) L
L C mm
L C
i
cn
a)
L
L a
a
O r
L_ CA
d. ca tm 0) 0 a) co
l N a C>
en a)C:
0)
0)~ U
O
C N u)
NL L 0) ( 0
1
ca U N U C O C O.
O
oQ a a
c 7 0 o
y a) Q.~
Co C)
C
a C
c V C O V 0)
0 M
0 cC XU
L Q
p" O
gC
ca
oo~
L
a 0 o
cv 0
1*1
o
C
E CD-0
N cl
co
3: =
3 Lu a) a O
rn
L C
l
E
Qc O4-
s
1 cu a)
a
p
i. =
a)
M
N
O O a) a)
L
O
y c L
C
a
a)
C C
ca a) + y.
O O O
U E
O O, L
a) O O
E O
co E X
O a) L
U c o
HU
Co 3 - E - a
o
0C C
N~
a n C a) La
a)
a o"-0 ov o
L
0
0
c C CU
O.S o c Eoo 0 • W
cL
a) -
o 3: a)
N
c
Q a) C-'FD C
E E a
c E o a)
O
a)~
a L o
c
a) o
Mc
r E O
c. 5
cu
L
3
S
L C a) a
Eoo
M o
O
ca m
o
n •
a) - C
ca`~' Ooa) L
0
CO
a) a)
ca L- -
0 w 0
a
a) E a) 4-- 1)
p O D O O L( D L y-o m
C
Oo
a) N C
m
s
L a
Oa)a
O
E
yc
cuEEyc rn aU 03
s
y cc$ o•- 3:
0 U)
ca~0 - C
n`. N E 3
0)1-a). ~ 0-0a) m p
N Q Cm 3: y
A 0 U C N a) N N
Co
N
O
O a)• CL O ( 0- 0 a `
o
L a)
Z
C a)' C.- L..
cE
a)
UDCd. ca) nO
0 ca o o
U)
C.)
v c:
C,4 Cua)CO . a ~... S
c
ai co X a cbw U c a) o a) co ca aa a
a - 0 a
co
ca
M
O
0
0
N
W
U
Q
Z
O
0
U
H
x
X
W
w
O
M
W
d
a
c
cu
c
CU = 3
O E
E
0
75 0 d
Q. CU
a
tC
OQco
c co
L
a Q
cu * >
N0
o2
N
r
OE
d
y O
0- 0 CL
O 0
M
E CIO
m
N 0- 6
O
U
c
cnn4-
3
O.0 . o
0 a)
c ( n
N d CU
r
C N N
0 0
D O (
D
O C - ~
E : 3N
m i C
aEom o
F-.) 2 vi
dam' m IL
C C
N =
o N
V ~ W
G O
mO
co
E-
CU
m 06
Crj
0 N
o cn
c NU
C)c C
Co
CU
0E vOi
as
0 0
E
o
H
c
0
M
O
0
N
W
Z
Az
M
O
O
EU
E-as
x
w
i
w
O
v
w
Q
a
Q
C
U A
Vj
Q
D
N
cn Q m O
U
O
U
c co
L C D Q
0O
O C-
O- 0 cn
C
C
O- 0 0 m
E 0
cn
C cn L Q U D co
Q
U E N U
O O i N L Q
CU
N
0
cu
a)
d
D a) u0i ' Q Q° c
p
C
c
ca n E 2NQ M Q
mQ- ( a
C
o
4)
L
cr,
N
0(/)c
cn
a)
C Q ui
O U
0
c
0 ca D D a)
o Q
O O L
co
O
cx
O
Q
Q
m
s
a3
N
CD
CO d O E -> 0
U) U) ac c 0
A- - 0
N<r 3o c~ 5- N L-
p C C U O
O a)
m O D N c
E E
CL Q O C:
L:O N 0
0
C
cn
W a) CD
M
a) C Q
a) LM
E-40- d U
CL ~
d U O p Dc - 0
N M
0
Dca - 0
D
v
N
C C V O c6 U)
n c c m
p m cu cn a)
2 cu co O cn U c c U) 0) Q
a M
O
U C
O O
n D
c ( D cn a) Q u) cu E Q : Y
Q
L
Q
U)
t~N
Z+ C aj 0 s U v
c
L-
O
0 c o
O
M
L 3 O Q+
20 m 3:N
N
0
O
0) N L C U)
D
Q=
d Q s
O N t0
LL
D) M N o 3
Co U
Q N
LO
Q
N ca
in
L.
et Q = 3 U) CL Q N 4 O O
U
c 4 U Oa
n d O
N U v
L
U c Q a) - L Q V Q Q Ct D
V C C G V
D O o
U D A O Q A
U
O J A U
O
ca ) C V - D . U DV C
n
p ' V
L O a) U c-
c to
a) M
U U
C O
C9
V
O C O O
U)
O o C C D O o Q 0 O Q Q E O D O
Q
L
z D a ~ r a UQZ) a ( a Q a mcu a a
O
Cl)
i C
Ca ( j)
0 a) a) c
Q a)
DA IL E
p O cn O C
cu o
a)
cuv
L
O OL
0
c
3
L
O) Q cn
U
a) - w
Q
O
L
j Z
C cn
C N
C , N
Q
C "
O C) Q-
p
cc
m
d : 3
W
L_
O C ~
ca = 3
U) V
C O
C L
O
O
O
Q
Q $
Q L N
U) n ~O cu
cu cep
D C C M
N~ N Q
r
0
d
U L O C N w
CU
E
a)
A5 UV)
0 a) QN
C
coC
Q Q Cl) cLD
U
d O CU
Q
0)
S
N
L a) co E
OO g~ 0 O > c= cu ca
Q O
UO
O
U) U Q L s O
U) 4
s
co 0
N
L`
C a)
A
a)
C:
L 4-
0 C
Q N
CU C U
U
N
C L
C
UA 3c
CO
CO Q Q
C 0 CO
O
3 vi - ce D-0 NCO M cncu
cu
J
00 - vi
a)
Q
C
Q Q O N
A?
c? tsn NO O E a) c C c-
cn a c
C
j
3: N
a) D W
o m
w e 0
C
O0
o
N ' N
C
co O U
a
O U) c_
inC
Q C
4
3 rP Q
N N
N O N
S
c a) E
O LO C Q Q O C C O Q Q U
v
i
Q t N D C N U LL Q O
C D N D + S. U v Q
O V N O • O
0-C cQO D)
U QO E0
N0 0 a) Q
0
o
O U
CU
0
C
L
J
C s ) C
a0
Q
cB
Q E
L Q cu
C)
a)
co 0
a) cuc
3
S 0- 0 Q 0 Q NO C C> QJ cu A 7 O O ~ U)
c
to DL
o
O
U 0
cA
Q. a)
O
r 0 CD
c
ao
0
o Q
2QE
c
0
WE w
v Q
s c
0
u0 c
U J
0
NU f
O
E Q
Q- vi
CU
Q
a H
W
x
0)
O= 0
O O
a
Q
O
a
N= C a) c'M O L,
E
It x cu V) ( 0 - 0 s O
ca 0) v 0 a) Q cu s Q cn s
M
O
0
0
N
W
z
Az_
a
O
O
F-'
U
H
ca
X
W
o
w
O
w
Q
a
O N O O
04 a)
O ( C O a)
3'
N -
N
O
N a)
c N Q- c
N O L
a)
C
D
O
E
N t6
D~ L-
c
O
tII m
0-
1
toC
0
0 a) Q)
O W
7
s Q
06- 0 N
0a) s
0
E
L
U
a p
O
O
0
O Na c:
a) L j E o
O
ca
0- U
a)
N ca N
Q Uco
O
Q
N a
n
L L
Q C
U m
N
E
L
a)
Q
O
E
a
U
NN co cnn a)
C:
a)
V
a) n
O O E
O
c s
Q Q L
a)
Q)
s -
O
La oU)
E
ca
cn O a) E D a) 0
U
J
y
C
c M
CU
L
Q
L 0- ( 0 cnQs IL..s O N cf0.- 0
Co U
O E CD 00( n . U E a- 0 eo
O
a)
4. Co 0
L) Q
U)
D
O N N N E 010 U) M U)i
aO+
cu -
O
V
L
to s
O
L
cB p_
o
U
n
C E
O O
E
O U
to
O
dy
p
E
V
o m
L
U
Q
c
ca
U
LO
E
L
s O
Co
c
O 0
a)
E E 0 cm F
a)
a)
0 a)
Q) L) co O D
0 m - 0 E
0 Q C/5 O a) c E U U E E co 0
a) O O° p
V C
O O Q
U
m U 0 p o 0_
U m
U"
c E U L C6 U
0 - 0 V cn C v, a) Q a) % w a s
U)
a)
0
s3
4-- - 0 E
coa)N c E ( n~ o 7
Q U)
0
W c
R3
a) co c
3
O -
Na) cn
1 N D 0
N
a)
s
0)
N cLao
U)
O 5,
L
fA
O Q O a) O i to
U
O
to
C
Q
oo a) U
cn
U O
O
E c O Q) er-
C O
m c
a) C
o O
U)
V CU st in - 0 U er O O
Q)Co
C p N it co U) C to
N c6
p
L
C
Q]
O Q
L
a)
Co E o a)
E
ly
U
1 co
CD 0)
U)
o) CD aC: co L
c0
0
U
cn
V
L: a) ccn -
0
p
V - o V E V
tc3
O }
O0
0 CL
ia r
v' m a) 4 c o Z L - to
oC
C9 O tr
Q) Q) O> a) p O E
c L>
p cQ ( 6
L
O O p O 5- o E
L O
O O
O L
C
N ( 6
a Q~ U a U) U~.~ a z a a 0 OL a in c-~z
0
c C (" D m a
L
O U) Q s L
O
Q
Ma
0
N
0
E 0
ca
0Loc
Nom
c
5 c
0 0
n
ca
O
0d y O v
CO M - C cu
N E° v V
co ca U)
N
N a) U O Q 0
0- c
D CU N CL Co
C.)
d c CL a)Cc 0 - C CD 0 CL Co D
0 c0 N
7
a) E
a
0 O- 0 a) a) 4M- O9 L N CL N j
U) CU~ EQ. E c vo
0 sU~ E a0~ a
N 00y O w Q' ca 0 0 O cv c U M ca 0 Q
0
c
L 0-
0
i ds 0~°)sa~i a a)- coEa) 0 0 a) 4) 0
a) 0 U)
0 E c E E
tFo a0 0Ea)= V5Eon~ c~-cE
f°
u) 00
m
0
a) v
0 i> >
N
L
c0-C c o c
o
aEi 0a v~
F' 0c
c V0 EEa) rnca a) a)
c s
0 U)
N E E
a)~-
cu o
C
E a) c
b
U
s_ 0m
N
o - c
p(
ca w
U
0E
U
ca
L
O 7~ L 0
to C Q) 0
C C a)
co~
O O
a
O U o-.C- a)
cB~ a
s cn
0EO~
C,4 0 CL s 0: 0 oca) ca 0 L
0
0cn NO a
Es°~~E
rn
E~U)
In v$ 0a Es0cE 0 oC
4. 0 2
0
c -
L 1
a) a) 0) a)
N
CU
Q
U) CD u) T~
OO 0 N
O'
ca - M
N
c
A
CD a c
M N a) O
C)
L
O a) Co
Co M
n O
c
a E B
a
c u) N a)
U
0
U J 0 7
L
c6 0
N O
CU
j co O a) U J O O N
LcO E~O U
i
UC CO
cc
N a) M
c cn a)
U
c)CO
0)j
O E
O
N
N
E c-4N
0 O
o O
U) a jO
E
U
N a)
a D O
C
N0
N
N 6
O a)
N
0 E
E
a a)
oc
U
a
r- CD
0 0
cn to
U ) O
CU
E= 0 5
p
O
0 o z E
C Q U p O
r
C N
L
3 : 3 E oM Mo CD cu a) a) s
v C Q Q 0 c s Q. a) 0 v 3 U co Q_ fn a)
0
0
N
W
U
z_
a
O
O
U
F-1
F- 1
Cq
X
W
I
w
O
W
Q
N N 0) 1) p
w
Coo N 0
aQ3
C CO
0
N - C ( n
a) a)O
C6 O a) n
C ~
C
U) 0
Co
U c
C6
fi! C L
O
w
O .
L
0 U U
tf 0 U C2 N
o
0
c a) c Cn pa)
1)
U)
0 O
N
N to LO
sZ Co
0-
O O 0
Co 0 U U)
i _
D a)
C/)
N
C E
O
C
t CD Cn
CD
E
O
E
Q) ( 0
Co75
O C U Co
0
O
N O 0 p i U
C
H C1
0
N
v
a) o
Cp C
L CU N
U
a
y
J
N O n - 0
C
3 U 0
0
Cri N
Co)
Cn
O
E~ N
C rn
N
Q
0-
c
N
o O
c
c OU
0) N
p OC. i
j
co
U- O Ca
UO O > a a)
CM~
O C L C
C
Cn Co O a) o . O
N
p to O
4--
CD
C E E
Co C
CU
l_
0
n Q- c L r
av
0
v
00 E a o "
p :
3 O L)
o
a. Co isU) i
noa) o
0
ccca vE 0~
0 v m w
E O
O C Q) E c : 5 0 a~ ( D ca
N
Q
w
C o N`1 E c 0
o 0
N w
cU0 C U)=3 E
p i C c iMaN p C Co O o
E
0 O E U E cm
C
Q
y
p O
E
p
CD a) U) O co O_
O d U
i q)
Co
E
a)
E E N
C E
o
p 0
E H c N Co
C . x Co
o f
N p
0
O V
0
0 CL C/)
O 0
0 E O Q
N
co E E
O p N Cn
Cn
CD U O
0 _ Ca C
E
U-
N O
0
U i
U U
Ca a) O p0
Co 0 C 0
U)
a)
0
c i N
ca
E
a) Fa O
x
0
N 0- 6
C
U
sz
En - C
E - O 0 -
a~
to ca
C-)
o cn E
ia Co E v
i
ai
C
m
t+' C D
ZZ C:
a) Q cac~ 0a) x D oE0 0Ca
p
Ri cn~ 3' cZI N() EE
U)
0
c
go> vc c 0 ULm 0 Q)
N 0
0 O
O O 0
r=Q
O U)
C to
in
0 V Cn
C 0 p - 0
c 0_ C
a) O a)
U
C a) a) U V o
cn ca
Q ca
0) E
Co
E- 0 >
O
0
CDm
0
Ca 7 Q ia
V O E 0 N E 75 > E C
N
0
0 j 0 0-00 -0 c 0
V C: in E L-
c
Q
0 p E X 0 00 >
R 0 p V
C L
p a) 0
Ca 4-- C) C a) V 0
Q) a)
C
o
U
O
O
U c
E D
C CD N
0 0
a
p
0 i
U
ap U p C L ( D
1
3>
0 c -o
0 U o o W 0 0 a U
C9 o- aE- u 0 a Z:) o) m 0 ai 0)- o
0m
C C
c
M CD
a~ C co cn c ca c n
rfl L c a)
N
0 C
C
a)
d
N U O i
N
CO
rn
v
a)
M
ca C0
s a a)
cL
Q~
p o
F o
o
0 o
v c
O 0a)
Co ca
E
4--
Cu
0)
E
ca
c
N
0)
ca
L
cn
N Co c
S= C
OL-
a) s c
U C O
Co 0
U 0 rA E 0) 00 0
0 4) ~ o ca CD
C 3 E ca m
C 3
p
3
C
c
a)
C
o
C
m E UO
c~ E E~~C te) E
E o U o vv
vI N
0 U) O S 0 ca U 0 C C
C a)
x
N D
V E
n E H
7 c
2
0 0 0 0
U)
m ~
U ca N
CL cn c
c
Q-
E ca
0
J=N Ca o o v
4)
a) i rn
ia
E c v 0 a) ( D
C
U) U L Cn ca C 0 C D O C ca 0 a) N
2
Q
Ep
N
c
0 to C
x
N U) N
E
O m Q
w v L
D
i
v
E C
o c
U
f- p C pV c c . 0 o
in m
v
Qa'
U)
o> C0 L
a a)
C2
caE Cu E Q a c~ ca
0 C C r~+ 0 CL
0
ca N
C. U)
L
O
M
C ca 0
U x c o
a)
E
U
L
y U V c
O V
a V
N C>
D
c
x
U O
E E
U C a)
0 O C n ca
0 C
inO
E
0 O C - 0
O C a)
E a) c N
N O j
O
U v E
a
CL
s
O n
0)
U)
a) N
U
0
O
a
a) U) 0c O N N 0
0) 0-5
0
A V 0 a
0
N M
N 0 c ' V E O O
L 0> 0 a) 0 a) ~ a) 0-
CoO N 0 0 X D O a) - 0
v_ v 0 O
o DU 2 o 0~ Q W~,o 0O CS U
0 0) CL a a c 0- ca
LL D
of
A
L
a)
00m 6
0
m
U) 0
3 ca)
a) -
a ai 19
Cu
Q-
6)
L
a aD n
0 C6 ca C O
0 n a)
O 0 •
V a) L a)
c
a)
0
CL
L
D
0
N
a) 4-- O
C.) 0 Q. ( n
U)
o D
O
U t mn a
c.
ca E
a)
CL ca
Q
0
M
O
0
0
N
W
z
O
O
E~
E-GQ
C
W
I
o
w
O
W
Q^ ~
c
o cn . 3
U)
nc
c
a
a)
N C6 p a) U N U
NS O
c
m U " O U)
L
N p
C a) O~ p
CO
Co C
0) ca U)
U
Ca
C
O
CD
a) Ea
C:
0 OCO O p
O
E
C 0 a) U) c L " D
U)
E O a) U) U) U)
U
a) a U m
a)a
co
o
0 F- m
L L
Oa)
C 0 cn
Q)
O
a) m
Ca C
m
CY)
a) c L O C
cn
OaN
0) U) rnY a~ ca a)
L
a)
0 _ 0
CL Cp CL i O
N cn m s c_n m C OUE a)c
C j U) C
N
a) a)
a
0 0)
in o) L- 0
0)
MCID
O
C
Z C-0 a) a)
a) L
c
Ca C
O . S
c
3 O
a
c
m
L
L CIO L) Cc
A
4w
D
a)
cE c ~
a a- C:
C
a
o
cno cn a)
CIO >
N , z;}
0)
O U) a "O O U
m
U p
L
C U a)0 0
0" C C
U C c U) CM z3
p c C U
C'
c p e m
s
d O C - O L
m a) w c a O m p c O U
ca 3
73
E
L Z.
CU U
Q)
M c
ca
S QN
U U
m
CD
o C
Cn CD L
C C Um LC
cn
r
m
V
U)
a)
L
O
a
Q8 "O C1 C/)
U)
Q)
3 m f- C c O EO
C cn U O
U)
3
c s
cn
p U C
CU
E 0 C
CD N m C m o C o S CL c
c0 O
U a
a)
E
Dc
U ' O
s
U
L-
X U
O
O
CIO
a) cn U a) U
L
Fi
a
U E c a) a)
c L O
C
e0 ev
aj Ca
z
Im a) O _ C
o
O CIOcn
O a U
0 ca
E in >
L
cn
O 0
a> a)m "
c_ n-~U ~3 M
p p
N0 3:
O U L
a)cn
a)
L a
t
E
0
0V-
c OOO a O n p D
ii. A
C U)
Co : 3
a)
a)
cn a)
a a) ~
O
O
V
m m c
O
O
m
U) a) c a)
E
r1
L O
n
a)
J_•
L
0 d
r
a+
O O . L j a
p
U Q 4 a) "
0 M
cn v) T Uc
V C C
Q O p U
m
a>
C C
p V a)
p
0)
C O U
o
O
T
z V
N EE
G Cj d LL in
a) U) a >Q En
m .
U
a) co m
7
O Q)
a Q0
Ca
1-
U
w-
caQLQ o
m
O~CL
a) ~
Q ' O O
a) v
0 m Om IL Q
o
U
0
U)
L
U) O o
C
D
U) v
i C
E
O co
a)o n = 3 0
E ca O C
ca :
3
a=
o m
4-
0
0)
c
CV co
0
a) 3:
O
L
0
OO
ca a) ca
A
V 2) C
c p
CL p
U)
0
a) O
0 a) cn
s ca 0 0 cay
0
a)
C
Ca U) 0 - 0
a) a) co m CL M ( 0
C In
0 • L
la C LOo m
E 2 _C s C
U
O
CO m
CO
L
S OU +
0O
O
L
m
c m C C a)
S
NQ
Q
arn 0) c u NN o 0aa)) a s
m+U)
C C
0
9 L (
Q C
Q
N~ O C U 7 s j E Q
O M
U)
N
0 y O U> a) U N a c a) N U a O O y U N
N a U) N c Q
d sai 0UU) L
a)- 0s U U
cn
s fad
mQ
E0
a)~a)E= a)
a) Q
NO m
LF 2
c d 75
o E40
4--
0 U)
N
O
C
n3° coaU Eav - C S c°iN C°im> NV~
O C O
A
p E U) a) O
s
O
L
L
U
U s U)
N
M
C
0 O
a) U) Ca U) C C
O a) 'O
U
Q m 0 s A3 p 0 a) C C ' S
a)
E
U) O
c- O E
CC O U a)
O
s C CD C
U
U 7 1- o a.
E
a) - 0 S
C
a) . in
N O O
A co U
a)a) Q~ cn
c
O
a)
O E L~
p
O
t_ncc
U->
L
c a) .
0
L
0
a)m
O
L 0 L
0 N O C C V) C ( D a)
Q U
cr
O a)
cv
L
N
a)Q a) c
0 n
E
a
0
L..
c
a)
Q E
0O ca
cn C c
C
a) c
E O
L
N m
O
E a)
E
L
a)C .
Ca -
11,
O
3 ' t• L
a
E V
O
C) p
a
a)N
L a)
N
p E C a) L N
Li
O
n
O O
co a E
o
E
V N
N
O
U
a) a) v a) L N p
U Q
L
L
Co
M4-- N O
CO L a)
o
a)
Q N
N O
C2 0 0
m
O Z
p O GU
0 O E~" c°a) v o> cn
co
ca
O
r- Ev
N N
m v
O
U
m N
C2 - ccc F- s2 O
C
O
in C
a) - 0m0
C
ca N
c I c
NCo
a) La a a)~ m O-0 CD c"
C
U N 7 N O- t-=
C
E E CO
O O a) UOiu) a) -
IV)
CAN co
o E c Q O
O
E M U) O . N
F- c
m .
L
c E a) C
O
L L OL C>a tV
m U
a) a) N C
M - O O> C1 U) a) Oa N L
C
m
P O CU
N O
U
a) O
C1 U) S -C M O
U
M
Cl
0
0
N
W
U
Q
z
O
O
F~
U
F~
I
o
o
O
00
W
Q
a
U)
a
N 1 I
N
S o
o
i
O CCD
L
c
0- U E O U)
s C
0 N
O-
O
C E >
u j
m o ca
E
3
L
L N
U
M
O O L C CIS
0 ~ . Y o E E c
O
a)D
f0
to Q
o f 0) C0 0- - C
O
a) O
3C.0
C
CO
C
O
0) O
C E
U
O ~
N
Q
C J N
o p
Co4
L
Q O
N 9
cu 0
O U y
U
N Co
c0
U
O 0N U o
3
0-
O N
CL ( 1)
0
C N O
to C
N Q
n co
U
a)
o a)
N
O L
O
j
E a) cu
3 I- Z m
Q Co Q i
N
a) O L
COUU)
0
U
O
L _ C " N
Q 1) p 0
a)
C
CO i
7 O-
N CU o of
O
L
Q
C O
N
C
Q) - fn
j
i'
a) CO
O IC Z3
co U 3 L
QU
O E E
U
J 0 C
0
C>
0:
O
L
U
co
0)a)
L N p oUo cn O N O COC j
i+
CD d
E co
tll C co a) U a)
u)
C O C oo O
O C OL o L r c0 0 O
CIL
C
a) O
co
E O cn o a
U
E
E
E Q3 Cc U cn
N i_
C
0
0
a) O
c
CD
o CO =
C C
O
V Q~
CDQ
cuu) cm
3
c
3 E c
p v
ca Q o c a) E c a) 0- E E cu
L o c
to O- V o 0
O
L
a)
Q
Z
r O E C p a) CEOE N
N O O - O C E U
U
E
O
C
E
U E0.- CE v
OC aj ai cn
cm
E'Nc o
i 0 o c 0 U) c0 0 - r-
cn v'=
a3
O
S
a)r'
0
O> N
cn
O.M
O N
c U)
N E o tO
U QO
N V
C
oS
c0 U o
o) L
O
N CC +
a)
i
v
3
OrCc t
OCU
E73 ql z
U
i ID
0
o
y U)
a) 0- E 0
QC C
r_
Cn o-
a) + 0
v
fn E co
O + U t: c
Cn O N
av,
O
r ~ 0 3~ ccucu o 0
U
v c0 Inc
L
D 7FD o
a o Eo 0 " o E~ o o0a o wCo
C7 o
a CD o a U U U CL Q. Q L CO a J In L a 0. 2-0
OCo
C
C
Co ca
L
a)
C
cn
L C O
U)
a) 0
a) a)
U)
N cc
E
a) cc N co
0
co
N 0)
O
o N
L.
D
o
co
0
a~ v
D 00U
b
C U)
a)
7 L
O 0- s
3 0 E Lo
cr 0I IS
c
00 3c
t
0 ~: 3
m a o a) Es L D 0 U) 3:
o
i s
o
L
N
U) d sE
a) o
0, a)
0
a)= 0C 5,
v
O a c a i a)
O U
U- ca
Q
c co a) a CL
0 w w O 0 E
0
b 4- 0 Q
U) 0
5
75
N
0 N
N
c s' p 0a
E0N
3
a)N
a) C: m~ a)
cC
0 n0 a>i ooU L E a)a) a)C E a - z-
C N a) " p C O ~ 0
Lc
N OL
0.
E O
o)
E O > L n Cn Co . c U Ca N co
0 CD
cn a)
0
C
c
0
C CU
Cc
V U O L O
cE0~ 0
C
a)
E
U
C 2r 0
0
c
C L
vs
O C a)
E
O
F5
C=
vi
a) OEOOCO
E
o
E
L
EE
o
o c o cN
0CUCa
L mEo2v E - Ca
U) w
0
p - 0 VL Q D~ E~U o0 Q cco D 0 o EO U) OH) 0 7 U to L
O N C V C-C C
a)
C N
N
a)
CA
in
a)
C
cc• N
o
U - a NC o p a)
oo
CO w a)
E o
0 O
EE
a) C
Eo
N - 0
r CU
C 7 e}
N ca 2) Q
C
3
Cc
M c to O CL Q a) CL O C0
U
N
rn E E C N L cE
N
N
d U E
N O O)
cv aN L
E : 3
N 0 N O
C
O DU o
0 0
a) 0
a) a) a) O N
C
a) Ua
b C=
j
s
a)
E
Q
N
Q 0
j
00 a)
C ma)" ago
U
Nc"oc
O
a
Q
CO O N P
U
a) n O O N
O
o N a) o
N - C coU Q Q
sJ U L
a) N
h C3
CD
L Q U N
3 rn 0
L
cn - 0c
CL
C
P C O N s
Co
a) Ch L
a) N
r- r cc
co
N U
C E
m O N
L O U a L s 3 t C 0 J ca 0 co
en
O
0
0
N
W
z
O
O
E-~
u
I~-1
W
I
w
0%
v
W
Q
a
a)
L
0 C W
3 cn r_ o
rJ
0
3
O c
cU
E 0 O
a)
C
N
a) m
L S D O a)
O c0 EC
CU
c co
U)
Q) E ( n ca
0CU N fn - O c
c E~
N
0
N L °
O
0 0 U
C
0
B Y
0
t O
C
c C
p
a)O
4- E
c0 O
ca
0
UO
p c
c 0
co
n
c
0
c
75
NO
r
L
0 cn
O
L 0
O Cc
a) c
N
0 O
p Q° N c W
L U O
0
a
m
0
cn
N
O
O U .
C
E
O_ ~ a)
0
p
0
0
4-
Q
N 0 U) 0-
7
N 0 m
E
0
D p to
m
5 0 a)
3
U)
c c
E O
C c6
E
ca n- t
ca
z cn
3: c
n
0- 0 EU) 0
U3 a. (/ j C n
0 O L. cn
L cB
c
0 0-
Q)
W
O CSS
0
W
Q N
0 . 0
4w Z,
cu 0
O o
L
Q) C
0 O
0
n a) C C
0
E
N
mo
En
0 0
M a) O ca
m
3
E
tf
0 O
Qcao
M >
cn 0
Z3 cj)
0
E 00 c ' Z--
u
L
C
o
0 0
C
cn
m Q
L
ca o
L
O
L
a>
N
C
ca p
B
0
E
O "
0
0 0)
C O) N
Q-
C 0 - O
r
NC ca a) a)
cm
O
OU c
O- CO
a
0
L
0 .
o c
c
N
E 0 o - 0 E n j)
L
cu cu 0 in co cn U cn O 3: E c U)
p N 6
4-
L)
c ow c
CU a)
U)
a)
Q) Z) cn
O
0
O
a)
O
Q
E
r
CUa) 0 CD z- CL ( n 70 0
y
L A
E
0-
V
L
E 0
0- ( n
O
0-
a) 0
u ( n
3 a 0-0 0
a~
L
c c o 0) mQ L
U aD
L.
0 a) N N O U
N 0) U) O Z C-4 0j 3 0
0
U
co a)
N
U 0
0)
m
Q
L 0 p
N
0 ( D n a)
cn
3
O
V-
0 7
t~
Q)
O
C
E
a) p t
a)
0 2 d O N
O
a)0
C
O
p C
d c c Q)
0E
0
p_ c
U)a O
a)
U N v N
55 3 rn
0 ui 0a
Vof
cu a) X m u Q
c
0 w ( A 55 ' E U
cn
N
O
C9
V
0
a3 a) c
Z
c 0 0
J
0 a) E
0
c- c6
N
CL LL O d LL U a O m LL a. z) U 0 a. LL 0- 2 0
0
C c
w~ •
Z ED
Co a)
O
L
En L L
m
C D O
0 c 0
0
s E
o
ca
3 c ca
c CL
co - o
a)
Eco
V) a) cn
C "
L
i
N
O
v)
m 0
s L
f6
c~
6 C E a) a) O
a)
n 0 E °
L
3 0a) m°).
r
m~ 0C of 0 : 3
0
c°oEM a)- 0
c
3
CL : m a) Ui V)
m
4-- C: 4-
cu
in " 0
3
d
L-
0 0
E
O
O
0 -
N
c
ca
U Q-
c a)
0 N a) c
Z CU
c~ a) a)
m c c
ca 0 E
cp O
4
0
0 N
D CC
s
0 4) o tn
C)
ca c L CO
w 3 Q E 0
c d co V E cc
co: f6 0 0
O
0) O L
c
cn E N 0
L
r= a)
d N 0
0 0) 0
a) M
Q1 V C 0 -
0 0 r- 0
0
0 0 - 0
U -
0 U U -0
m a)
L
E O a)
a
E 00
Z o
ca-
m
a >
o a) s 3
c
0
o
F- 0 Ap. 0 0 a)0
a)
n c- C
U)
o. m ~ a N a~0 c
C: Co
V 0
0 o
C
ca°
0
v~~;
C E
4) v)
0 6 Na) a)
0 `
3-
m
a)
0
0 Q
O c
c
O
A
c
c
0 O a) to " 0
n
a)
C
C r0+
a)
0 C O
C c
Q C
0
N
0 0 7
7
m
O) a) c
0
C U C O O E O
O a 0 ca a) a
a) p
Y 0 2 O A- 0
0• c
c E
O
0
a)
0
cO 0
0 a)
O N O
U
N U)
m Q
ca f0
c V 0 c cO in
N s c N
c-
Co
rd.,0 vi
cL
m
0
0
E
O
a) v- 0 eh U U
U D_~
X N U
v Np N c 0 a ca c 0 ° 0
0
ia 0
0° a N
a1.
E M ca L a) • L 0 0
Q''
0 0 0
E 0 O Q
U
O cn
N d V V
N 0
0 ELL A0 c0 to O A Q•
V a)
O
c
0 N 0 _ 0
a
p E Cl) v a) p Q
M
co
0 O
c p 3 ' c
W
o
Q. a) E 2
C a) 0 p L5
0
c > N o
N a) in E
c 0
3
0
ca N CO N
U
cn
O 0 O 0 N co cu O = 0 L
EO
0
c
z 0> O
a) u- a) - E m
u) ) c U 0 U D U a n c N ca
S
c
cn O 'O U- 0. ca W H ca N a. cv
r
v ccaa
N
D caU)
CD
M
O
O
O
N
W
z
O
rO`
LV
w
w
O
0
W
Q
PA
c cnU) c ca a)
x CU Fa CU
a : r_
Y
c
0 c
L-
mD
c m
E m
Z)
L
CD E
0 m cca
N
U) L
CU E cn a`) O O - 0
a) O
OO
4- U ~ 0 E Q: O
m Z)
J -
cu Z3
ca 0
U 0
Q1 O
U
Q
N p
ca 0 a)
O
Cl)
O r a)a
F ca
O N
O - 0
c 0
a) p >
N
0 - Z
O
N c 0 c
CoO.
c
C. L LC
p cn
N
CoC O L) 0-
Co
L O i
C:
c Q
p }
p
pa) O
cn
L a)
U
O
O
4O f:^
a)O . Q cn v cn rZ CD
O - M LIJ
5
D D p ca
a)
O
n
O O O
r
U)r-
co c L
L
CD 3 J U
J O
O
v
O N
c 3:
m L-
S
L
0
L y~
a) ( n
Q
Q? O
tw
cn O
a) cc
co n
En cm
U) O O
E a) Q) 0
N L) Q) CD
O V "O Q. ( n
E
Y
O cn ca
D c
D
o
c
Q U
CO O
cn
D o c
O
a
E O U) a)
L L O
a RS O U O d E 3 E w E
J
a) U
N
r
O O
N U O
CD O c p p 3
U
n to U
C
Rf R3
a)
ch
C a) c0
N O O
U
E- C O
N
Q
x
O_ a)
O O p p p N
KZ- O - p L-
p
C-L cn
O O a) N
E
CL Q
oo O
E Q) O V c
O Ua= C ! n O
p O Z3 N O N O L 0 cu M M
L
O
CU = 3
O
N O
a
Sh
M U p
C N 7
cn
a)
0 L c ! n p U
N C0
R CO CD 0 CL
a) Lp ca 0- N V a)
C Q v O C x
r-
0
n
0 o 0 c QO ~ a3i ~0 O ~ o
C9
0
a f- m 1) C~ a c d z cud ( L w U) m a a~ U
c=~ a)
to 0 - v c
Q C
L L C ca
O
C
O
M a E
L
O a) a) faaQ)
L.
d 2
O
y L O O
0
Q O p p E c
L; oL E U) 3
cLv
C m m a. : 3 a) L
O
O c c F-
U) - a d C a) c o V ca O A
r
ca
to
to O c
O
O c
U O c~ O
Q
N° CU
O O
V
0 a)
Q
c U
Co
c LuF
O
r
N C d a) n= U L U x a) c UO
m 2 CL a)s
N
E
a) L O= a)
a)
C,~
E°
o
Q
N cn
a) a U)~ LEA
0 IQL a) c6
cc U)
v
U)
A
co
a) a) v 0
C~
0 ~ 0
a)
C:
a) C LC D 2
t6 O r O
U C w O 3: 3: a) c o a cn
E a)c c
Fu 0- 00 f° 0a
0) s- 0- a)
a) 0) 0 td
EL E O a)
L
a) 3 Co U)
cn O C O 0
O ' L
w '
i w O
O
cE
0 O
or
v
ir- a)
u) EA D: 3 Dm
a
6 0 7
Epp
cu~
O
3v
N
d p
im
ca O
C:
U
v O U
c V
Uto O
NO E
V
cA
c Us c v
c p Q' -C
a)
O
NL $
N
O s
O
U
U
A`
U
W Q
U
E
co
L
1
c0
U > 1 N >
O N 2
L
co
v - 0 c
D O
N
LL
f-
v
a)
L
cn
a) U
U)
Q
U) Q~ N V O >
j 0) N a
O- N
a)
L
V
L O c0 Co L Q) O ca a) E
a) O V- c m nj c9 cfi U c . ca O
Z) ci U) D d co E E ca E Q cn
M
O
0
0
N
W
Z
z
O
0
U
f~
C
W
I
W
Q
a
c
0o
m
mc~
o a
O N
N Q N p O
L
a) 0
O
F
O C
i
N
O N
U L
7
C
O
Q > 1
Cam.
L (
0 M
0- 1--C N C C 0
c E
0 c
O O E
N m
E
C
co O
7
U)
dC
U
U
co
U_
E >
C
7 U d m
L o
O
mOC)
O
C
CL ( D
L m U)
0 0 0)
U
C
Co
D j
iz
0 N E R7
C: -
N
C i __ U
ca 0 U
0
L 0 V C O
0
O Q QL a) a-• CD
4-
M fj p U? O
U)
u
L
a) 0
Q
C C U O
U
R9
0 n om
0
L
C C
E En
Q) U
E
U
c
3 } o • L0
O i
CL
E
C
t O
O
cri
0
CU)
0
N 4-
C ( 6
L i
Q
U
rj)
E N
OE d
Q)
3 N
a)
O 0-- o
V 'O
O
Q• C p M m a) U O m m
U
ca
6
V cu
E
O co
C
O
CU
N
L
Q.L
C C C
M C:
O>
C
O O U
v
U
C
ca
C
m
D
o C)
UN O
C Qj Co O L
o O
C D ca N 0
Om
E L
t0 mZ
N
u~ cu : 3.~ E o a
co
N+ s
Q. =
N
c ( n
Cr!
U
U
L
O-
Q
M M
U
nE
M Q L
O p
M
O o C
O - a - a co
CU : 3
O~ v C
q
N r c
0 e t 4
0
c od
IT-
c c
cv N U V
U
a Q
U
E Nco U L
C
6
V U N
N
V
0
m V N
U0 E E C
N
cu
Q.~ L N
C7
N O
C/) a
N O
U) U f-
O
a
i o
a U O
O
a
L
f- E
0
Q
O
a
L ( 6
Q
O
a Q E Q cn
0
C
Co -
L C i C
aE
L O
r.
N
C U)
r
0-
m FL zi
7
c rE
U)
co O
N OO
U
a
Q~ •
V '
C d ~5
caiF- ° E°
C V UC
t0 ~ A .Gy
O O O L
2. 0
O
cn N O
c•
cu
4-
a
0
o u0
U0 O G
Q
O E
Q ~
O
H
M
O
0
N
W
z
z
0
E-U
Fx
x
w
i
O
N
W
C7
Q
a
M
O
O
O
N
W
U
O
O
E-'
U
E-~
x
x
w
i
w
O
M
h
i
3a
Q
a
t O 0 4-
C
0 a)Q i~ NCu
D- 0
C c LO
Y
C ti c4 0) a
n o a°~ C/) 0 C: U
Q ca L
Q) U C
O O Q)
O O
O 0 O)
a)
C N
C
Ca c
L O O Q O 1 O
f
O
C
O
a)
a)
L"
m Q)
N
0
c
o
y. C
C:
O
Vi
E a)
CD
to
cn
j
O 0
O O O c
75 V O a)
O
a E O
CL a) a c
C
CC
G
E
a z te rn 0- s c
L
Q) U
C E
O
rm Q
O
N N
L
N O
O N N
L• C
OY o
O D L O)
co a) j
O
D - u; a)
O UUL
V
caE o
ca a)
cn Ca E U)
U) O ( n
CD O N C) on E
c
O O o 2 N O a) -
co
O s
CC Cl) L
V N
E E c
a)
O D
L O
0 0
Q M~
O
O r
Q) O
o
O EO rOR-
y
0 CD O
1
E 0 s 0 0
U
0 (te)
CU
n
0
U) a) r
D E
0
E
o
d C O O C U
a
C)
C:
N D
G L) C 0 a)
cv Cni
M a) s
J
E
p U
co o U
C t n O
U
N
U
CD o E
0 0 0
O Cu
L O O
N R O Uo n
C
d U cC
m
0-
ns c E C
C C
a~ U
N
Ca E
u)
0 UN E3a~iE 0 O 0 v a
Q)
aa)i
D
E
Co
0)
a) 0 CN
p
0
M
U) C
CD
C-
LO
C-) ~
CDc Cn Cli w Fu
4- ( D Q)
E U) U) ( 1) I~r O C C a)
o
0
Cn CO Q)
V
Cu Q) V V U V V V
N
G
01 v
7
O
0
C - 5;
a)
0 Z3 m
O
CL : 3 a) m
C7
O
z~
C) O
C7 a 8
Co
i
O
a
a) x
o a)
o Q O
o in CL
c
i-
a O
o 0-
a) m
Of
O C
U)
N
a)
C
C
tt
L-
N
U) c o o
o
a) 0)
0 0
N O Q) _ C
C
Ni C c m a mNQ N N a)
U) a)
N
CM CL
D
E a)
E
75 _ lme 3 3
a
L 1
Cu
CO a)
0 vJ
W QJ o ( B
L
N N
N a) ca
L N
a) x
N
a)
0 C o
C w o a)
m O
0 N O O
O
y
a
L 0 E s
d
O. R
a0
to o
C mC°
O
c a
O
N~-
N
ao
c
0
U) - 0 0
o aa)
u) E
N
C C
0
N O
s
c
CU ca a)
E
O O
a) m
avi E
0
0
0 U O O U m 4)N
c
c a c Coo
p
c L
Ca a) a
C
o c 0
J
Q T U i
L a)
N
a)
O
r S CD N cc
L
N O
2
E 0 O
O
C y U
L
W
U
C
O o 3
0 N> U O O
a C
O L
O
CL O to
c) o
O
C
N
O
E
O U) N a) O O N
L
s
C CU U
Cn
a)
a o
co
O
c c
c
cu E-
to
o 0 0 s
c
L
cLi
O
C= c vii Co 0 0
o v s o C O C
4
o
o
0 N
L o
o~ o 0 aa) nN v v7 C
co E m Z%
4--
2w
O N Cd V E C O
C N N W S
O
U > 7 0
a
L
v)
C ' C O U O N~ E
Cl)
Q OOU O ~
E cc
U
3
Q
Cu
N 0 _ r_
c C
a)tc+j Co N 0)r N OU- O X N C Er N U~ c U
O
V cV O N O a U 0 O U O
N >
O a C o p a3O
m
o0 GU a
o p
a)V
O
o 0
Co C
o Co
C
a)
Co
C 0
r
N
L
E E N O c C) O
O O O a) O a s O O L O
oa
0
u j
D
0 t°C
am
C C
o
L
s
v, a
o> o
s
O
a
j>1
c N
N E
a) E E
a)
C
O U c
U-
o
Co 0 a) a) O
O
m
H- O H= C
z J w r O CV N = c m 7- 0 O 4 N U Lo " a m co N 2
M
O
O
0
N
W
z
z_
O
O
U
E-'
X
W
I
o
w
O
W
Q
a
C 0) N C O j) C)) o a) C Np
U
C C L C
E p 0n :3
to a)
U
c 1) - p
Q C
C C
L
co mm
f
0 O'
N
O N C L 2 0 o m E O
UO
o
U
N c
C a m U CD W U
U UU U
m a)
m
a
rj E 0
U
c
Ca
m
O O N
1
O
mho
DU
L~O
O
m m
E
Of
O
0 - 0 C
m
Cie
a)
U
h Wm m
0 1) N (a a) p
O
Q. a)
a+ •O
M
7 . Y
U
U
N
U
0
Q) m
D
a E a)
J C
N co
a)
0I
C
Q
z cu
m
O m U
U
C O U
c
E
ca -
E
U) CO
ca
U m
a)
L
E0
o
C
v
O
m
a)
0 0
c a)
U
v i q
U
a) O
a
a)
cn
U
0 U) c a) U -O
p q0 c
0) CD cn cu ' t-L
11
co
O
L
y 0
v o
L-
W(ncn
O 0
j
t OJ3
U ~
m- 0
c-)
EO
3- 0
p
E
d O
O
N ON 0
E O
C y
L
c
om
a)
Cl)
U~ L
O Cn U U)
C C
Ua)
m E
J
p p CL O Cc,-, a .
D
cn m
m
p m
Of
Q
a) a)
O N
0
a)
U
Z3
D m
c
C
N
C)~
NVD U'
U
c
i
m
i
U
3
D
C) N70 o
G1
a)
v i
Q) O o
OC2
C
C U m
a) O c
L)
C O 0
o n~
O O
L) c
m
c
i
n
3
L CL 0 U L (
1)
m
m
Y p p r
O N a) CD E
a) Lam'
0 a) to Q)
m - 0 m a) 7
r
C:
O m
En C: Z3 0 w FO a) a)
m N m
A m
ca a)
V C
U C E U
E N V U p a U
O LV
m
p s
VV C2
E
G _ V U
cO o o p O L O
U C2
p U
U
O N
C JO E m o
E
C o
0 : 3 ' D m a U W U LL a a
v
Of m a m0 m a wwZ) a U
0 o ~
N C -
4) t6 : 3
U
a
a) a)
L
a) a)
U L
x a)
U
C = a)
O m - 0 C
1) s a) a) a) v ( D- 0
U Cl) a C U C
m
3
U
L C
co
O
coO 0
m: 3
mm
Us' m
U
m c a) 0
mt 2-
m c m
m
pN
p C a) L
N
W
4-
E cu C:
c
d
O' N
a) U
m c v
a)
U
m
m' C ~
j
U rn0 0 co
m
o c
U)
co
C•O
c m
O
J ( a
c
coN-
V
L~ mP
O c a)L
c~ c m U a
L
O . C C
IL ai 0 - 0O
U
t 0) ( 0
U C
m
a) 06
L O m
a m 0
c ma) E
a)
CL
00 cu
4- 0 -
0
z
0
m a).
L L
m
c0
m
c 00) CL a0
M C
W
W
0
a)
E
CA
U
0) Z)
C
U
O Q
c
C
a) m~a)
m O~ Q
a)
N O
CU Uo
L
U2
E Cc
0 0
0
mU F"
OC
C7
C
C 0
CCU U L
0
m U)E '
p)
C C CD
a)
p 0
e ~ ~
L
a) 4-
V L N> o
t
U U
ca
O
m
O, m
0 cc0
O C. TO
i
O 0
w i
m m
c
0 m C
O
E
O N
m
O
m N op (
n
rt,
U -
C
D
M cLo
L
O
O
1
a) m U a 0
U O
0
ao
C C O
C > ~
E
O
0
0
Cam N
s C
U C m
ma) C1
OU 0 Mm
t
O
O•
0SEmom
r - 0
0U
Co
CU O 0)
C a)3
a) O
E p p O p• ca m
2
C~
cn
U a)
a) m J V O a o)N~ E
a) a) 0 0 o a) m~
C
cn
3
6: 3 Ca
co
io-a mmmo
0
nELCO~ m_ a)
p
O
O Q Q-
U CL V
m
C U
a) U
m U
N
cn
s cco 0U,~0 O N
c
U - 0 L
0
OU) O
0 O a Q ccaa N
m
m
E 0
O c m' a)
O
U
c
Ca
6 CL
N C: a p a)
p O
E
V N C A
U O L
0 L
Wn
0
C E U
a) U- C
a) Ua
a) EU
o
mU
GU
ca : 3 - 0
m=
cccc M c
N00 0
x=0 m
a CO
m0m
5n
5; Q. Q Um
I- a
m
c i~mc
p c~ cu- 00) 0
E
J i( ni
c
c a)
a)
n
h in
CL LaL
a N
in v v
a) a) - 0 0C1 a) o L
o a C c u i a) 2 2
J
C cn
v
376 E c E~
w c E C 0 E 0 0 0 0
m r m C4 -0 M.~ U c 4m12' ri0 2 CL cc~ cn 2 2-0 m : 3 cu
0
0
N
W
z
z_
O
O
E-'
X
w
I
w
O
kn
kn
w
Q
a
0_ 0o(D ai
U
c~ u°)= v2U) C:
0
L
CD
cu ca
C_ aco N O N
Oct-
Co
co
D
L
m
O OC C E
j cm O
N
M
0 c:
O O 0
D
a U N JV
O1
Q
a) a) N M c O C O a) O)
C J
O
N
Ds
O) E a) C
3
O E
n C
ca C:
E
p
C O
O
J
ca
N
fa a)
0 O
0
E
Q O cCO U) N-c
0 C) C U)
v O
N
U4
cu O
U
co
O N O
C C
a)
O
E
CL a)
d U O E
a)
L-
O v E
E~ "O O J
O~ O U) ° O
m p Qac m
cn
C'
coa oE Nc~
cu C D CM 0O
L
L O
O
L
Om
M. co a) a) CL
W L L
O)
a
a)
L c
a)
a) U
a)CD
FL
QN
L)
0 N p_ m C m
c:
cn
21 O
0 4)
O
H
Q) - L
m
U
C
O O O
u) C
Y 7
a)U CO
0
O O om
U
Y
D
N
0 O
ca
70
O
E U O U
a) - 0
o0
U a)
U DO of o
Of
U
OM
O
t
a1 ~r 3~}
a)
2 ~c cn c
0
Q
ui - o
CO m
m ai
L O Y
a)
a) m1
c)
p
S ao
a)~
C)
O
o 0 o
ND ) C0
3
0 U, CZ 0 N
N uS
En
ON7
a O
0 ( D
O lu
Z
C
CCU U) 0)- 0 E ca O Ot
L
a) U O
o
ca O O C
cu
N
0
U Q) L
N L' O C
O
C
N Fn
U N N U
4) N C)
0 CU - 0 0)
J
Co
4w C aj R3
to
m o 06 E cEr) o
E E u)
L2 o
O cac
cn~
O o E~U 0cooCo L)
CD
NO
C
Uo0
O CL
0 ( D
C
N
O O 45
O a) MCD " m0 T N)
3
C M
L) M. 0 CL
c~d Q O
U) O
u) o - 0
L
U
O C-0 tiCO
C O
M O)
C O
Co
C E
O L
O
4)
P a) co rt
A
a)a) O
a) E
L
Q
O C O ' e
a cD A
CO •C -
cn
a) Of + a)
ca a)
V a-
X
a) o~ • V O O O u)
te
i C
1 O
Cl
V C
O O V
7
0 00
Q C
w
0~ cQ o Ec° noa) o
a~° S o o U) o o- 0 o E o U
C
oo
O D a c ' 0 a I- U a a F- co u) a) a w_ 0 D
N~
co _ r_ a) c a) C U U
O 0) a)
C
70 co
O
0)
LL
C US
L c
L
O
C 0 O
o L s=
a c
t co
C
E o a)CD
o
R
E
o
N
OH N O QU
oNa
7~
9U 12 )
ca
U) c
E o
ma. 0 v
E o` r ( 1)
a 5 2 s
N a)
2 ca
a i
o~
a~
4)
4) co cn a)acc
N
U 0
c a)
O C
O N
cQ 3
a) a) QO
Ma)
cam
o~
s
ow
O
v C ca 3
cn
U O
N l_
a)
c
C/)
0)
i
IL zi
d
m a)
o : 3 N a) r-)) cco ~ a a)
U) M c a) ~ 0
o
C O c
V) N O
co
U E
0 a)
N
O N
E
ca
ca CO m
w
U')
c
a)
c _
L-
U o 0
co N O c
a O C c w
a) a) o
s
N o
m
o
4-- 04 o o C
N ~ co D) > L)
m
cn cu
N
a)
O t, 4) cc N Y
N
co
0 t CI
o
j O
O
p C~ m.0 co~p
ci~cu o f -
Q CDcOn It
70 c
jU
com o N 4--
a)
o
m o
C:
mo
x
E cc 1) c
o o 0
CU - 0 m
co c
a) co w0 a)
co
00
E
CD 0 ~ o
D
N a) pZ) Om cm cow c E c 7Q o
E co Q E
p
L
o
Lo
0~0 0 U 2
N
cm U
O
C U s
r O CO
U)
O Q) • L
o
a)
O N u) O L U
O O
O c •
lA 2 E ' O E
U)
s
O) a) O E O N
Q
O
C Z
C-
O
00
7 V
U Nm
to
w
E~
a) N
Cv-
O
L a)
C
C E
O
ca O
CC
O v N
O a) 0 UE
N O -
L a)
c
a)
N
s
N
co
ca
a)
ca
NO co m vi
C
r- pC ca
a) E a - co
N O
U
o oU cnp a) Co ( D
CU
N g ~ E os a~ 4-
Q ~ a) ui
c
o
Q 00
T-
L-
c~i o J
C.) co
13 a fa
EL
Q a)
t
cca
is s
Co CL
E L
a) - 0 ai
O
co HE
a)v
W
W
c~
c
a
O
O
c
a) O CU'
cn c
O O Q O
Z 3:
L
Q
U O
I~ U
Q c Ecn a) O
a ad ( M U
v
c
CO
U)
ca c
a) ! c
O O cc
Ote
S
P
E N C co U
E
C) -
D
M' i O c to
P G P P co ca P P cc ca P
0
0
N
W
z
z_
a
O
O
h
U
I-- 1
X
W
I
0
W
Q
a
ia 0
0- 0
c
0- 0 1] C a)
n
4-
I
0 Q)
c
C 4-
c°
I
L
C
ca
ca 00
c) 0
ca c m
n ( n 2
O m M c
N,
6 a)
a 0
C
ai
U d p
L
a)
L
o
U C
z3
O C
N
p O
0 m c D
M
CM
c
a) 0
F
o a)
CD
0 - a
O
E cn n
O C O O
U
a) U
a3L
C (
a
0
N
3 a) C
m a)
a3 Q U) U
O
L U
O
O~
O
E E 0)~~ Q°o o
C ca
n
N
m
o
mOw
a)
m~
U M
o
4-
O w p
m cC: r-
U
CD U- m
0 E
75 Q) U
U E N a cn O U
O
D
U a)
c
Q N
Z a
a)
a) c a L
4...
C ( n O o
L
N
Q CL C o-0~ 0)
zi. Q)
D
O a) O O U
C:
a)
MU) o co
0 M C) U) D 0 0 4- Q) co
c:
0 cn
1
a)
aU
Q) LU
L
o o M
o
LO >
C
n a)
CM
t:! n 0 , a)
a) o
co
a)
L
n 0 0-
Q
E
u i
n` na ooc
O > w a) U
O v o C- o
U c
m
c a)cr
x
n a) n
O O
E
D 00
O N
E
a a)
O 7
O 0 U
0
c
m
C a) a)
c U O
O
s m 0)
C
co a)
L
c O
r-
Q) a)
L
r C
O m
C
c
CO O I
U
F•- I 4
L
O
L.
C a) n X m a) ca O)
C to a) U)
CO O 0
U
C.) O E O O N Q
D O Q) N a) N a)
L p~
Co
N to
to O
NU
C O p
o p
r
a) O
in
U C
E L
n
o N
N D N m
z
L
C13 C
O N
4w cu w Fu E
Q) U)
a)
w r
U ±
co
C
a
a)
C
7 vr
lQC n
O
O1 O
a)
L
r Q E v CL
O M
O aD E
NE 0
a)
O
C n
3
Q) C
N CD
o
Q) a)
Q
O
E O
70
N
c -
0
c
0 0
c
C
m O
a)
U
a)
0
o~
C C
E D
a)
cn
caO E~ U a)
a)
m 0
a) 0
C:
m 0)
cn
aQcLll c~
r a E
Oca
O
a)
cn : 3
3 a) ca
a U 0 0
C CD U O L
V
a)
N
V ca 5 0
L
cEU) Z=
0) c:
a)
w
0-
a) > Q U)
0 ca
O
E 4- n
O L) OO n O
E a)
O
n
O c
O r C C) U) 0) m - 0 Er- O L
U
to
4) CU
4-
o c o ai ~ U o~v c
C C: U) O
3: ca
Do E a
3
U a) w
w
N
O O
N O
Q
a)
C
a) (
n N
1d L
c-
O
2
U
a) 0 D
O
E C
N
d~ C (
n
co
N
Q c
Ca
C6
co
ca co
U ca -
C)
co E Q
2
N
O
UL m L P' co a N o ao a) a Ca
ca
0
a o
G)
Q . V) _
W Q
a~
U
m
c a)
4_
cN-c a) CO C .
C
4-
O 0
r
to a a c
O
N,
oO
a) a)
Z3
C $ Q A
C
ca ca
o
0 U
N
r
a)
a)
v=+
c L
ca 0 O CO0. 0
c
C
a) - U NQ I O
W
c0
a) r
L
O
a)
U
c 0 C a) o D-C CO I,- U)
p
O O C
O O
r
O
U N Co co
NU
O
Q - C
t
Q O
a) E ca X
O O
n
I C w O 0 0~E An a)
c
w
E o a) o 0-
a)
U
N
Ua cao c
c
C
O L N
c
3
o- o
C Q Q) 4-
r °
L
p~
m'
T-,
oo
c
ca
C O 0°
U)
N
0
O
N N to
U)
A 0- 0 O 0_
C O L V O
C>
a) a) p a) O 0 r E 0) N E U) E co D as
tUn
d " O
y + a)
O
4-- to
U
a)
C a) 5;
QO
m a)
4- U
a3
C
C a) CO
C: U a)
U
O in w O s D
O
N
a) N C
E Q) C
U
X o O O
Q~ V U
4- a) s a) ca D
a) a i O
3fa
L t CIS 0
U L
O L C o a) m n a)
r a(n) C
o ~
s a) CL
Aa) "U Q c
E uoi `
v
C - C
ca a) Co ' ca CO
m
C:
r- E c°)) C ca a
U
O U O
a) N 0 n c 0
a) coo G U
p
c
c
O U ca 0
p
a) Ca1
a)
C/)
a)
E
O N
car w
a)
c
2 E
ro o
U)
p
2 cm c- a) 2 D a) 0 - 0
o
E 00
a
CL a) ca a)
O
C~ O U
r- C
U '
O U) C E O C P
7
Lw rn c c Q~ E
U
w
o
QE 5~ U
a cu
a) 00
C U
cc
N- 0 r 0 M
aot
r N
m
N
cu
r
o0
N U
u i
7 ( a
o
r U caUQ NL
0
0
N
W
U
Q
z
O
0
I-- 1
W
w
O
r
N
W
a
L
O
U 0 C33
U CU
a)
O N
se a)
U
2 E
C m
m T 2 U
cv
mQ
O a)
a)
co
X
D
N
p
p ±
a)
3
L L
a) O 6
Q)
cn
o
L
Q)
C iS CC] O 3: C L
Q C
C E L) 3:
D E U
m
m C
0
C
C
cu
C
ca
0 a)
E
U t/I
co
CO
U a
co
c
D CL
cu
5-
Q
Q)
Q
E E 0
72
Q)
O
p
Z o
o
0 LD
0 cff p U U o
O
Q ( a Q Z
Q
U
cn c QO Q
N
L
toC
L
O
C O a) O cn -
coM
O U O X
U) 2 3 D Of O s Q cc
D
a
o
a~
0 ( D
q
oa
79 E
4-
3
c
n
Ln
U'
c p
ca
C c
Co fn
L) n
Q O a
2 N n ( 6
p
y O
C or
m
cc -
CO
0
L
C)
L
40 O N
Of
O
a) L)Q)
0 0
E
cl-
O
D
10 ~t
m 00
U
N
U
m
m
C a
ca Q
a) Q
0
0-
m
2
LL
m Q c N
N
0
p~ Q c
C
a
U- cn o ca U U E
O
Coco 0 0 m - a 0 o U U Q:3 c
0
U C m U a C
0O " a
Q)
C/)
Fn
L
3
3
L
C
M
O
0
a) C
co
co a
U
O
CW N
C
a a) U U Q a
L L
a)
N L O s
O
3
0 Cn U
I
C a) O
U
C a) a) L 0
a ~
U
C
a
L)
N U
70
a)
fa O
D CD
U U
C O
a)
N
U
3
co m
U ~
o- CO m m
tII
m
Q7
Bo
M ~
E
c0 :
P
ti O N
P
U j ti U
U N
ti U
N
U C
N
ti
0 a)n
c: r-
C C m Q Co m et m co
F m O O N O
mC
RS N
V
C:
V U
m
V
m
En
0
m
V
CO U
V
0
V
CO ( 6
E
D
QN
Y O 1
7C9 m
O
a
o o
d a_
O - C
a F-
73
M
N
U
D
O
iL
C
F-
c6 O L
3 a F- CO
O
a
C
F- Q
O
a
a
F- CO M
0 o~
y
C_ O 70 O
L L
a) C a) a) a a) O N a)
fo
r = 3
N a)
c6
cn
C cn
CO
i
s o o E a)
Na O p Q
C
a coco a)
Q
E w N 4- ate'
ti 0 E 3
cu
Q U
C a' C a) L
C a)
L
R~
C
O
t O O
rt, L
O
U
E
Q
0
U
CO ~ ( 0 S
co
O " a
coF CA
F~ y"=ctf a~ C oa
LL
C
C
o E
u
s-
m
N d
N
N
a) N
O O
N
O O ce
N
w m O( n
Q
Q
rn
O
U)
w : r a)c
in
0 CU CL
U)
0.0 O m C p s
A
t8 O
N U
0 O 2
a
m ~
m
cn N
L
T
o v
C
C 0 0)
C
mv e
E
E L
a)
O
ca
D
D E a
a) cA CL c O
p Q i
p
7
v 0
U
D
co
C
L m
0
L
a
EOa)
Q O L U
Q a
a) D4-
L O
C
O L
V
0
C
O N
L
m
U U U
M
n
O
C
O C
CUC
ca
p
U
c
O a)
0
ON
o 0 U U
5 fd
U o~
a
N
C a)
O
N
U
C O U
F-
C E- C i
O
C S
N U
U
C Mf9 N
a)
l
N
D
o
U
L
V a)
72-0 L)
0 O m W CC ~
m
z C I
a) C
p ( 1) Lo
U) O O
a) L U
U)
0
O O a)
N U a
E X O N N
C
ca
C
Co C O
a
m
U 0
a N m m a
N
U
D C a
O m
O
Z U E
0
N
L-
0
O O
0 3:
C y
o N
L
a) M
s
U
a)
0
a co
m
to U
N
Co
V
U c0 O
O N
CV 3: O a) X
yc U a)
a)
tea) c z N om'
N
a) C N
a) rL• O
c) m 0
L
m m 0
m C 2
a O G U a)
U 4-
m 0 m O a) a) N 0
Q U O
Om
2 E O c s C
a)
C
0 -
C LO s U 0C -
CO N N o
C
Co
Q a
Q O
O
Z3
m
F- v cn . o
c0 co
F-
a)
f- F- 1)
p
a C 0)
a
Z Q m LL
L ~
O U O U
P m
L
a)
C
cp
a
N' j
E
E
a)
v
tM
L
cL
pp
ui C
v-
O r N
Q
O O a)
M a
d a m L N X
cn a)
L O
U
a) N s O C a'=
U t Ccn a
M
O
0
r;
0
N
W
z
z
a
O
O
GU
W
I
O
00
N
W
Q
a
ItIf
a)-:~ cLom mm
c
RT
En n Ca
a) o- ca
L
LO
Q O)o o U c cn 3 ac
CD c0 0) N a) - 5 p L U
c to
co
CO a) ° C
4--
O 0
7 C O C
E r cn cn o L
6 U
cc
U
cn a°i o0~U X V Q cn a)75
CL a) zz0
c - Fa D m - 0 A C:
Q o
a)
oM~
D c
C: 0) ca
CU
a)
3 0- E
E W- 0WM
m 0
0
a) D o
cu a
a) N m
a) 0
n
a
p m
c
cu
o
X40
o Q Z3
N
n0° c
a°
o
L p tn+,
C7
c
a) '
Q v vi °
C-) M °
ui cOn
ca
a)
M
O L t6
D
c:
a)
m
E
a) 0
70
O L
4--
0) C:
D
p L.
C
C~
d
L
U
U)
p L 3~p O 0
M cv
a) a) U ca
a) s O
N U
C
E ~q m ~ t M 3 C
O> N m
a) O
cm ~ C',
4-
N
tB
n Q
O
X C 0
a) O
C U
C.
O
E
S tll C
L
O
co
L
Q i n y
tB U
N Q
p 0>
2Q U
F+ CU O
L tp
L
O N
p O
U Q O
p
L
Z
L
a)
O
0
C
p O
y RS Q - pN . r
Q)U CO O O N
U O
C
OO
L
N
n
a) U)N M
N p a)
c Q
c
a) cu O
c t= N a0 0
c
0
0
z
C
L
N Q N
C
to 4--
Q
a) n C O L
Q Q)
U) N U -O O
M
X> V
0Cl)
C'l
IRTa O
oC:
OO m M Lo
C-4 N U
to U Q U
c cn
Ew4
r~ 4
O
L
r-~1)
E cD
C a)
O
Eli U
c
ti O
Q
ti o
cn U
ti O ca
a)O
4-
T-
d N ac N D O U O q O
v vy F 73
0 U U 0
V O v o
E a) r
vQ o
o - p n
U E n 3 m 3
t a
c o c D
QUm0cn a
C
L
E ao o a°
a)
a° Z N
U
m
C ca 0 Oss
Lc c aa)is
c6 2)
NaEpoa. c
co a)
E
D
E
a~ d r- co
C w
O
O N C
a)
3 Q.~ U t=
F~ -
co
CD - 0
a:
O a)
C -~ doo C
tp c
U) C
N V
O
E
r~ cU N
W Uc0
p E
U
C
D > a) ca
O 0O
p
L O O 1
N
O W
L
i U
0 C:
o a)
L-
4)
c a) CL
C: CU
L
L
O
C c N a) O
O ta' V - 0-
p
Na) O E
E
E bo OcoceL ec
Lo O
QN N a)
fC
O W U) O U 0U Q
0.- C
CO O
O C
Q
t0
4- 1
3 Nt c
O"
N 15 E O
s M N
C U O 0. 2
O
A' >
V cV
0U
N
C _
A 3 c O O
00 >
p C
W a)
0v 0 00 DD Sv
1)L
2a
2 E
c)O
o
a)
H
Eo a)
ks-~ a)
0
c
Q a)
c
c a) > U U)
O C tci cc 2 Q N
F
O f0 a) a) Q
W
U
CL E N co
0
0
N
W
Z
O
O
U
Gq
C
W
I
w
O
W
Q
a
m cn
Q
C: a)
L
c
cc
L o cn
0
c > r--
a)
a)
c
O 0 O L an
m a)
N
a =
c
c
c a) s~
c
a)
5 co o F- v)
E
O
0 C:
c
E
c
ca
a)
L
c
5
co
Q)
n
Q) cn
co
a
E 3
a)
Oa) cn a) Q) L U
o
O-
C :
Q.
a) C:
m p
O U c
c c c a)
C:
O
q
EU)
0 a)
0
C
M o
a)
U O
O
U
L
U) p V E
4- U Na) a)
a) O W~ a~i E Um0c
cB > c L
a)
cn
0
c c
o 2 C cn cn
a) 70 T
C0 N
L
o w
C S~ Q-c
o
om a) o
c Q~as
a) >
a) O CD L
C U
I
E
0 U
O O
a) a)
U
co to
L=
U)
i iN O " a
Q)U Co U__ c cn
o YM C U 0
O
E
cn Q
a)
U) c
0
cn
a) ca
C ev v~
a
a) L
N -
C Vi a)
p O
L) U
O O
O N
c
O
N
O
U
Q c
N 3
U a3
aO
c
a cor
N
ti
Ot_-
0~ Q
O
0
0
c
ti a~
M cn a) 70
U O
2-CU 7
E O) C C i
r
cv V Q0
L)
a) V
U
a) E
O
9t
V
L)
L~
V
CD ' Fu
c~
O C
a)
V
O V
C C9
O
a
p c
LL U m
O
a
r a) O
a
c
S
p
a
E O> w c
w a a)a)
W• M = 3C L
i C
N d 0o
d~ co
p fn
C: a)
a) R ~. n
cv a~
i+ C
V) 2 N O
N ~
O
C
O V
O
U
M S;
a) a) O
c
O U) N O
c
M 4r-,c
L s ( j
O N
N
q 0o0 o
5 ; - 0
LO E
CL a)
O
H
M
0
0
0
N
W
z
O
O
U
W
w
O
0
W
C7
Q
a
m Q ( 1)
O N
4-
O N 0
NL a)
N-
cp 1 1
M Mco
CO
a) U)
n D
O
O
Of
F,
U
O
O_ M U)
L
s O L
p
N Of
2 N Q
0
m _ 0 U) N
5
c cn
O N N M C 0
Ca) U N E ? to Y
O C M- U
cB
C M C
O a) -
E
E 00 to
C CE i
4;
C
M C6 p U
a- a)
N
L>
in-
UU
a)
D U a)
to Q a) a) 00 Q
p to U)to
in
75 V V
Q
O N W " 4
Co N N N Q7
U
M
co N a) Q M
Q- C. U L)
E
O p U
a)
U)
p0
a)
U) Eo 0Qc
o
d DCM M
N O~CU L
O
U
N
a)
C
C
Q
N
C
CL
C U
NIYU) QU4-
p E a)
a) U a) O
a w p
C4
L
Q
N O Y N=
0
D a) N
a)
U
V tQ--) N
0
2
to
I
0
L
L CO
c6
N Z N
U
U) C2 D
a) o
O
O
D.
E
O
m cc)
a)
a
a)
L
a)
a)
L
U
U)N
C3)
CO
L
c0 V
N 0
0 c
L
m '
a L•
N O
O - 0 Q.
C O
U) E- M
O
U N V cQ
LL
Co - Co
a)
U) - 70
E
O
O V C
CO
E Q
to
O
N o
C2
U) 0~
Q
O U)tL2
L
c4
M E N
L O
y
L
cu
p
O . U
U Q) c
U
U
D
L
a)
C
a)
N
r
L
U
a) C
s N a)
0
m N
Oca U U
O
m N Cn G) COto i
Q a) Q to O E
cC M VI 0)
in
U
o
O
a) C:
U p
m
p L Q a) - O 0 'O L
V
O
i ca
L
O
U
U
M a) C N Co E - O X
0) a)
C
4)
O a)
oo
N
L-
N
C
N
CO _
r)
p 06
U O
j> s
Iq O C to
aD N a) 06
O
O
E a)
p to a)
U
U)
n t C a)
N
U
d
N
C
a)
U
C C
f0 a) O
O
O A to o A
O i
A ca N
9 V
0L O O
Q
Oa)
N C p
L V
O V
V 0 U cB
0
V
0
U s
Q E
X O
a E
N
U)
0
O
z
O
a
O : 3
a [ if ~
O O
Ir a Of a 0 a. U) a° ton n cnm to
a)Rs m
C
M
L
O O
0- 0 CL M a)N O a)
cC
c
L Q M x 0) a)
M
psa)
cc Co
ps
U
70
R{
Cs.
w 2 E
co rs N
O A Q a)
a) C L
p
cc E
aN n o
O
2
1
U o o 0 a)o Cs
p
E
NE E c
co c
ru U)
F-
co co o p 0
U)
a) E E a) U)
2-0
d co a : 3 L a) - 0 a) • O 6
C 7 D)
N
C C U
Q
Q- in
Q- c
a) Oo
C W
0 a)~ ;,
LZ
V) E N
N
p a)
a) U ca N
0i
O
U a)
m0 oY~ EoLEXa)c VE ooa)
4). 2
U
N
U
N
O 0 M
U
O Fu U U
N
X
o to $
E N N
C L CC11
p E o to
u E
CL a)
O, '
o
C
c ( n
N Ec C
O L LO oN
m
n
co p O M c m
o L
L I E
C:
c
aC)
0
o a 0)
a
c
a
cc U)
a) : 3 L
c E Nsof a)
O o v
U~Co
0 c) N
nc cf° roc ta~ E.X om
cv
3
t n
a)
N
O 0
N Q O E m
U c ' S
D 0
co
C:
L N a) 3 0
N
a) o
Oces Mnp
w a) N
r-
p
M 4--
70 O
700 00
N O a) in 6- a) s o f Vto s _ O O
O
C NO C A C
pO 0) o c a)
O
m m Co- co a) t
U E
c
I
W M U
V U
a) ch
m
0
N
O
2i =
C C 0 fn N Q E C
7 O M U
0
t
04 U Q a) EL- O
E
V N
N 0) N
U
to ca
Q
C X to O
t N' p 0 0) a)
N 7~ M
O
U
d U
CU
N N
a) " 0 C O
O+ ' to
O U)
0)
C
O N
m 0
g O
tn
c
2 U)
0
s
U
0
N : 3- aa))~
E
o m W
cu L to c a) s
a) cs o
Q a) U
c U
E2 a) )
a D O N
E
a) O Q E
N O O
E N_E vu) to
O CM O
a
M
j
5 o a)
Of j E
s
L
0
H~~ U N
G E 0
L
a)
E a) s
Q) N C
UO
z V r N m
s
ri U tt C N to U ccaU F- N
cl.
U) C N
M
0
O
N
W
Az
a
O
O
H
X
W
I
O
o
W
Q
a
E' O m= m C O N
O C
O
0) ( 1) p N LO
O
C C
m
U. ui
U) Q m
m
p
O
111
tn U)
O
En N CL
m u
0
O E - p 0 VJ
C m m ca
N
U
D
O
m
N
m 0_ a)
U U N
c
p
E
O
2 CA N U
L m
p
a)
X
O
a)
y-•
CC C
CU 0
U
C N U
Q)
C
to Q) c
O ' pC a) m
u)
E
Y
v
W
fA
C E
C
0 r 0~ N-0
C:
U n
E
g
m
O
s m
C
O
O E
cu O co
Fn a)m C Q
a) ON
p
m N O
o
cm
0 p 0
U D
C
E
Q E O
0
O
U U
UC6
O
1) 5 J ca
Q a)
O
M C
a a)
N X O
n a) U x
C
r- ca 0) m
a)
U C m a) E O m
Q
C a)
E
O
L a)
U M
U
O a ' U E
O m a p
0 M O O N ui a)
L
o
a)
a) Eo a) a)Q m E
p
oa)
O
y"
N O
d N
d C
C
c
C
o f " O
fn
p
C O
m O
C~ O
u) !
E n N C Q)
cD
0_
u)
mZ; r
4-
N E
O O oU m V a)
t C W L
U
3
to
O N
o
Q
m
CD -
i
in
70
0
0
N E - 0
cm W N >
0 a)
pC1 a cn O
m
a)
c
a)
N
N
m
a)
E
0
m
E O •
Fn
0
c:
0 E
pO
E
O p
E
N
E 40-
CO
i ~ t 6
0 a)
OU
n D
N
c N~ mm p O FU
p
N O C p m fn
C 0 L
L.
m
L
O O)
UQ m d a L)
L-
0
c
O 0 C) L) 1
U
m
O U O
m~
O
O
a a)
m
vi o a)
L4--
m m
n : 3
m c6
O
E
a)
C
C N m
a) - M
L
a)
E
a)
L.
N
p U a~i 3 j
W
L
En
o E N o E ui
5
C: co 0
E
a i
Y) - cu
O
0
m 3
U
O
D
m o p a) a) E CL Q)
s
O Z
to C
m 0)
C
U
0 a)
r- M m
p m ofm E 0 E w
6p
E r-
0
cn
a)
0 0 w m CD
N O O - O
0E.- U
co
CU
L w m U m 00 m
a) a.
m
r' E
c
p°> amL cm n m E omc
U)
o
n
t1U 0 m V o V pU
O v m oU)
3 T
a) x O
a2
o j O p
aU
m Q
o
U
O a) O a) D
o
m p 0 a)4 a) m N U CL Of O IL Q
N
L C L m U) U)
i U C) mN CJ 0m C
N
C s
0 a)
C
N E~
W O
a)
O p)
i C N
m
Cr-
a) U)-m w ca
a E
C
a
L
c
N d O
Q
ca m
U
N 0 o E 0) 0 A N
Q) 4L-.
p
co
O •
L m j O U a ~ U
O
3
U
Q3 o•°z aw) E u°) . +m U)
O O 0
m= sa°)~)~
a)
Z a$i
O a
aim
r- a) a)3 ~ tz
L o c ~ m a) a)
U) cn
2 E Q O0 C U
O
to a) O O
W
C C
0
t9 C U C a) 7m
N NC a)
O
m
a) O a
y
0 N O
U
0 cm
U
C
p m
C
C-
o- v) ' O a) m
m a)
N
0 0
o
O 0--a
Q
C a
E
r
N
Cms§ ~ a
p O
m
N`+ c
m
r vi O C
o
L
do o Ev~m m0 E
w
s m
pL
m V C 0a)
02
a) x
a) - a
ca
O
0
a) vi w
le U)
O
a) m
0. N
L
a) +
r
C a N co O Q m
C
O VO o am CL
a00cu
mC
0M.- a)~~ cu
o E L 3 0
OO
m
Q 3 C
L
C- C
m- U) U
r- C
E L N
O
m
C
O
0 m to
a) L
Y-
O C O
Wa)
p)
3
a. m a) m
tt-
m m O E
L Q L
0
U) E
ca 0 O
CD Q) O E ' O a) C- a) p 0mE E 0 E O O$
5
O- p
o U
O
No
C
L
Uw
A
S ( D
L_m
w co) mU o
a)
E U) a)
O _ N
N
cnU)
om Ca =
0)
U s
m
q. a) O
O Q
L N C a)
a) m>
u
L O
L
F-
L
z L
0 a)
cn
0 m
C:
o
m y a) a) s sN
0 U)
c
a
Q) - 0
a~•- c~a c~a
m
m
0 m.X m 3 w
E dU xc0 c Q c E N o~ c
a o CU a) E n U
0
E c mSn C C c~
m 00
o
Q
L-
CL
m
0 a E
C
L
N
E E o a)3 a cC o 0 s E
Q a) O a) . V a) O c O E2 C
W 0
t
L
s-
mV j
N L
O
L t O
O U
C.)
O Q oU E
0 p cna; C6N
w O N U C F- U
m
C
m Q)
L O_
C Lco
r_ m ( D 3
f6 - O O m a)
a U C s L co
Q
a- a) O
m
L P cC N L
U CO 4-- 10 ( A = U to 1~ L to m to 7 CO m C1 N
L
P y P m
M
Q
O
0
N
W
z
qz_
O
O
f~
W
i
o
w
0
N
O
W
Q
a
o
cc
C
0)
L
t
cn
C
C
a)
E N C
CU =
E
N
3 cn
CD
N
O L
U)
D U
cu
U LZo
7
CL N m Y
3
L
a)
a)
M
C. a U 0
O
N-
0
C. V
m O
U)
0- a)
O
10
iC
to co E ~
aQ)) o
U)
o0
N j
0 to
ui Q. N
O 2
E cl zC~
0
L
a) 3
0
0
0E
co E
L
0
p
U Q z
In
L ( 1) 0O
O
0 c
i o 0
E o c-
O - p U a i 1 a) 0 a)
N C CO U U Q DE
0
O c6 U)
U N 0 3:
T ca ~ T
i
V
0 O
U) W
a
o cn
0 a)
U ncc
d G
O .
U v> a) c
U) C9
0 CD
a U-00 a a. 0
CC a)
L
cu
L
r L
C L C
Mo-E ooN
ca
CDm 0H
y ~ ~ y O
n3
O` E O
70 c V O
CU -0 c
L
O a)
Od72 - U
0 U)
c o
Co rr
O4) 0N
dU
O GU
4
o E
CL a)
O
M
0
0
N
W
z
z
O
O
F~
U
H
x
X
w
I
O
w
O
M
W
Q
pr
c ' c:C1 E L_ O ca
o cc
d p p E U cn O a
cr C
2Op
L - 0 °
rnw
C C 3
D U) 0
4- L
C U N Npa) C
a)a
D X
N Od
3
uiQ
U
0
D
ca U),
0
z
0
0 a)
0 o C.
N w rn U O p
U)
S
Q O C
V
cn ca Q aci co
O
O
U
N C O J E
r+-a
L Q
VU
O N O C O U a) C)
a
Q' o U
C ca O ca ca
a3
C
CO
d
ca
N n O
0
2
U C O
3
C
L
CLCD _ 0
N
L
L
N]
7 a Z7
C
O' C
E
C)c
O Q. a p
LJJ
L pa) -
Uca L
s= ue d
c o
m 0
c aO
a c
2--
0)
U
y.
CL ta rn
0 m
3~~ DM o 3
N w4 x Lc a Ea L caE
v
C> c~
V w a)
N cm J a) a)
O
t N Q. ca
C
O C a) O) a)
C
O wO O i
O Lq m o! 3 0 cd
a E °
U)
E c r U)
a) C M
o~;
D
E°
o
o a
o 2 E
0
a) ~ 8
D a)
0)
O L
Rt Qw
O
a ca C c Q M
O ca m
d
V a
C
U p
a
O-D
p O
ca 1. U U a) 3 c c
d 0) C 0c u0)c a °
ca
L E
Q)
E o p
tL
v o Q v
C4 0
c t c 3D c o m
a) QN
L
ca E D
co
ro
r- ca o
U E E L~
4-
a a)
0 C) CL M
CD
M
CL
0)
C:
CL M
Q
e
t
V
V C
u
p V N tom)Q V
0
cn • f~ U
N
a d
NV
0)
o
O L O
O
to 0 O
C
O a° O
Q
p O
C
cap O T
p
V)
C O
p)
p0
c7 v m a c/5 a oa a U) 3 a f-- 5 a os C7 a
L. O
ZQ
a)
U E
p
cv
E c
c- co
oc
v
c N co
L
E o c o
c o s
v.. i a) V) ca ca '( a co Ca a) C m ca a-
C *4
0
0
te
N O` E V U) U
c
C O
c 0 rn O
R i
a v-
cn cm C 0 a a
o Z
fa p V a) c O O O c Q
cad Xc O
a) Oc U N 7 Nm ca 0..
4-
OD 0 c s a)o
cu
d
m
L U N E
O
J
O
N
D
7 N
E.
O
C N
L
CL
C
Oca , rn Q E
O
Q a) N V U
w
co3
C C CZ: U)
U
0)
O
N Zi O
a)Cc
N~
cc
a)
3:
a)- N N c p N 3 Q
ca
V 0 c:
O a) a C N N
a
a
fa
o
co
c
C: 5
0 c
a v>a) a)
ac ~ E o a~ ° C
S U 0- v)
0Q)
v
a) Q
D a)
a)
caoNQ
a)
ca U> L ca N
N
25
N N
O
O O
C
0
a)
m
O
E
CL
O
a
C
C UU) O a) o
a
d t D a ca C
o
a) ca a) ca QU O N vi O O
E
6 O C . r
c
30 0U) f o= a) o a}' r
a) o a)C U U N E am c r- _ C
a) 2
cli ca U E U 2
CL a)
d
L
P
ca c7
U)
im
is v
C E
ca
i
ca
C
Ev)o CL
E
3
U N M
Q
v 0
a) O
LO
V) 0) vL
C U
C
O oO o E
cc
C
iaQ N
a) U>
C o oCa 0 op$ o
m a
75 m
C7S C7 ° ca C92~aa)) 0) U) UCO cat)
a) 0
6 - a ca E
O
0
N
W
Z
z_
O
O
F-E-'
a~
X
W
I
W
O
Q
a
R
Oc
m
C
L_
E_' 7 C U O C
O
1
c
c
a~ L
c cC 3
C C O O m
0 °
Q~
CD
wNC
a)
ED
CL
3 ~
cm
3 0
U a5 c
d L O U
N
L cn
a) O zn a)
to L+ w+ a)
C a)
0 U
O
L
C C L
uJ
w
d N V' V w N O
C 3 N
U
0
U
Z C
O 0 y 0O
c
E
o
O v O ca
O
a O
lC
V U)
C O Q-
O
E
N
a) _
m
fn
O
Cl
N U 4 cQ
c? C O
O 0O C O
a
N 3
cm o6
o
a)
L d
B
O U 0
a)
0 E 3 c'6 d
w
w
1:
O
U) c O O OiEC
ca
L m
3N w aw> E oa
0 a >
a V
r
d
a
m
a)
f
0
c-
to co LO0 o
CLo 0
0 U)
O Q CD
N w 4
C
0 0 C9 C C1 U
a) 4~
c
63
V
tl C a)N+ 0) a) C L
caG1 c~ Ooc - ta+, a>,C a
a) o~
c CU
O L
L
a) C Cr c6 c
O Q) a)
m : 3
D - 0
Q. Q aC cn
CL
C V r U N
U a)
cr cs4O 0. 0 M w 0 0 0 0 a)
J co N~EO
MU
cC E V O o + 0-' c E
m
O co X UQ
C
0 o 3 c j
c
cs 3 cn c
C
m m
m 0 o~ c
H~ v aNN s-) EN ai o wE~
0. CL 4)
a 0 d
c~ vs
a cr 0
w
c
o o 04- o En cn
a d a vm33 - o Ln
Eo 0 C:S?V
Nr m - a
c
cc
0 mm
0 O
as cc
c c Z
cn
2 U
caL m Etn 0
ca•a. c
c c 0 0 ca O
CO0 0
V V
Mm i
w
D O O 0 ca E
Ln
M O
N co c cr L c U
a) ca ( D CD
Q ns 4. to @ d
c u
m U 0 CO m Q 2 U fnc.)
d t4 O
w
c M O
t
4) 0 0 O L V 7 O
CL
C o
0
L 0)
m
s w 3 c~ 0- 0 V U L) a d a• 0 w a O co 6 ci - a
U)
i O
Q Z c
0 ca
C p~
co ;
w o a)>, cac~C0) a) - J w" o a) m a)
o O
ca) vN- 0 U - oa)
Q C o Cs
0
C,3 w
N 0
U fl
Cc c))
C
a)
3: D_
N
0
U) C
O
O
N
0
w
a)
Co
a)
E~ u)`
N c° EO
0 - C O
c`- oc
a a)
c
a)
CU
0 a 4-- Q)
O
0
c
L a)
0
O c
rn
s C
o
a m a)
j - a E j o c` c-
0- 0
a C
0
C cei
E N Qch
m 4) 0 0 CL 0- U)
C0 A c 0 E~ m
o a) 0 a)
A
ca
ma) a) ( n ca
a
U) a)
S
i
0) 5 E
L_
N w
C
N w
i a)
0A N
cn N N s
ca
CO
C
0 C
0 O
C 0
a)
p
a " aFu c0 a)m }
a) L
o
m ca ca
a)u
C
3
C~
q? a Ca
OQ: o
U m
0) CO ~
a 0
c
ao 0- o 0O a)
w
0 0 E (
nL+
0 OU
Q5
0)
3:
a) 4--
O
0 U a)
C
C
a) U caQ
LO
Cl) , N " O
U L- O
ca
C L
ca U
M
N
O O O
O 0
C . 0 O j
V) Ncc
CC:
C a O a)
w N
N O 0 O C
6)
O Q)) s E can a) 3 O u i . r
C c0
O C 0 U)
U
CL ~ c a) C
0 i Ocu viC Ca °Eao0CDL a) • ca0,5 p LovoC-m Q)
O v c O s
E
0
O
C° c
0 c
a c`0 CM O con 3 L ca ca
ao
Coo a) Lco avi 0wca C Ow
c0)
0 c E
a) co E 0)
V e1° a) c 0 j L ° cCOU CO ° Q ° o C
U E C a) o / o ..C- E
a) L Q Uw
d N
L 0
O p)
3 O) - a
a)
CL
E
L c6 C
c Q to
N O
N
0
N O 0)
o
0
L
E 0)
0 OC: F-- a
a U
U)
E 0
N c
a)
p V v 0 f~ C
0 E o C1 o a a
E O p C> oU
c0 0a)
U C
O
0 ca C
C "
M
cn
m b Ln
N 3 a) L N
a) : O IL 0 a 0
C
4: m
c6
0 E
U
N m
o 00 0
L
0 CLL 1-
0
0
N
W
Az
a
O
O
U
X
W
I
w
O
tn
W
Q
a
U J U Q) Ca)
c m s O~ O
0 E
C c O O O M
J
co cQ Q)
Co
4 a)
p
c
4
L m
a) O
O a)
E c
M a)
c
c00 N~ n- _
O '
O
O
a) O o C p)
C O
m O a)
Q
m° O O O0 O)
N
O It L-
L
O '- O O
c
Q E
QO N
O N
U CNON Q Q CL
U •
N
a) cm m
O
F
U) cnU) O
O o to mU m 0
M j
N3
0
m e U
O - O m° G O
C
Q
cn
O O
U
i
a)
L
U°
L
c co
U
O
Q) M
N
a) _ 0
O m
O
m a M m 0 - 0
W a)
m
o a) C~ 0
c - 0 O o 0
o
U M E a)
a
a) m7 U a) c
c va
O 3
c L
m m '
c
0
0 a) +
o
a)
U'
c cn
N E '
O°~ c
na)
0Eo~ w
a)
m v nN aLeac
a)
c ~ nc
m a) Q E a) -
am) 0)~
a) c L m
m
L 0 0 a) a~
c N Q mm E
L c
O 2 m u o m
O
UO
m E ( M
c
p M00
c
N
N~
U co
c0 ° n
0 0)
a)
m
M 3 a) m
O
L . L
0 U
mE~ va) m
N
a°
d =
0)° m0oc
0)U) m
a) 3
0 a)
L
0x"0 ~
M
u) E
N o C m ° 3
a
c
E02- 0--0
E E
E c
c
E
d c~ cnmo °
U) z ~
N 0
u ic
O
a)
a)
Q m
O
C
c~ c0
D 0
Lcp a)
0)O
L
Q)
O •
L U
E ( D a
O N D
N O
O i
Q Q
p m Q c N
o>- 0 -
0 E w e c
M
m
U
O °
O) O
m z
Q w X a) O
c~
IL o
O
0) m o N
c 0
c. oo~mac
c
3
m a)
ccac' E
m
cn °
m ~ -
E a) U
E m a)
0
U
c
U O 12L
cn
O N°
C O
C
c
a)N a) w
E
O
0)
E DE o- 0U O
0
c
U)>, E N
Dp
M O
N
O
O E a) a) O L ccn 0
U
C (D
om' t->~~ Q' ac
M
s 0- 0E o
U ucu0wC:
C tea)
O C/) U c a)0 m o
0m a) p ~ p
Uo
0
a) ~ Lp
o 0U p
0 m
0 ° m
0 - 0
U-
a 3
D
c 0 E
c c~ c Q
Q
c
a)o
m L_ o
N-
U m
N
w 0 cn~
c
w m
L~E 0o°>, 00U)m 0
to ti
U
CO
qd Q E m O U i
E Z L
O
W O
MO m N a)
C ai 3 Z E
0 a)
aciE
O
C
0 O N
0 o a ul
U)
m
C a)
T- -
0 cV V CD .2 m Q)
a) " O 0 (
1)
0 M Z3 O m
a) Q E
Q M
70 3 cn
O M cn c
d a) m O~ O C- Q) a)
Z) C
L a) c O O
U E
O
E U U
o ma) _
U)
E Q)
Q. vU)
i a0 u
a>
o N 0c
m
C
v 3 E
0
ai
Lma)O s
a H m CM 1
CD
D
O
a H
0 m
Fn m 0 ) o
O m0
11 z U
Z c `
n
E ~
Q s vLmN c:
E = c 0 cnCa
0_ 3: Ln cu cc - CC
X 0 CO
a)
C -
0
co) ID L-
L)>, Em
N
i
c/) m Nca c
m y ( n
n a cs n Co e
d eaQ
o.
c
E Q_ co ED a) m~ a)0
co
co
a) c
Q
a)
d m 0)0
co
o
M o~>,
c E
mmM c .- Nc•4
c a)U my O
r~ a
0 0=M U)) 0 Q
E
E c O
4) a) > Z
LQ m 0 0
a) -
a) CU
1 co a)
co
CU
n3EcC 0
n a) MU)
Oao
V
co>,c m~
z. EccQcn N 00N
M
S, oV
oco 00 0co E0- cu C
LL
c (
D
1..
n
U c E Q, 3: W
7 Q
O
a)
a)O
O Q
0
OZ CO
0 C CL
U)
s" O- O CLi Uwa m
N
c N O
m m
N a^ a) o N
m a) O
c3
m e O
UU~
Cl c U)
O a) t:
0 o~-0 - 0omc com a)~ n
fly
O
a
m m~
mU 0
C
c O w
c a) E
a) c: " Fn cu E
0
U H U E
S _ N z a)
N U O
C • 0)
A O X 7 2 0icli 2 a)
O
t
mO
J OL cn . coU) c U O
M
O
O
0
N
w
z
O
0
I-- 1
X
W
I
O
W
Q
a
c E
U)
m
O
m2
3
a)
O (
n
a)
E
co
c
a) f
C a)
E
Cl
0
E c a
cn p 0 0)
U
cc C N 'L
L W O
C-L
a; -
o
Z:) a)
a)
o
O.
U)
N E
0
D t
co
C~
ca
c~
a) a) a)
a Eo
U
C O
a) 0
G1
a) O ECL
v
ms
zn
ca tn
3 o a)
a
Q Q CD
n a)
a E° E o
L) CO
CD
0-
0R!
C
O
U) p CL
O
D y CL N O O
c
m m c
CO
L a) U)
a
d
Q)
N i O r- O
V E
01a7
t::, O
m c
O Q M
N a) Co
QP7
y= O O A O m
Q,
V
L
D
c N
O V
Q)
0- ca a)
cn
y
4 3 cn
O
O a
o
U) c
N
d
L. O
Qz
N
0
o
r v i
d
a o
as
D
0
Q) Q.
s
E~L N
C. Z
E O
aV U
V
Q)
U
3 O
so
N
U
U
O