93- 45' 715
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF
An Ordinance Adding Chapter 15. 12,
System Development Charges," to the
Deschutes County Code and Declaring
Emergency.
REVIEWED
3 w4
LERAL COUNSEL
DESCHUTES f:,
an
C81101
ORDINANCE NO. 93- 051
WHEREAS, ORS Chapter 223 allows local governments to charge
system development charges on new development to account for the
impacts on such development on existing and planned capital
improvements; and
WHEREAS the Board of County Commissioners has determined that
it would be in the public interest to impose system development
charges on new development; now, therefore,
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON,
ORDAINS as follows:
Section 1. Adoption. A new Chapter 15. 12, System Development
Charges, is added to the Deschutes County Code as set forth in
Exhibit A, attached hereto and by this reference incorporated
herein.
Section 2. Severability. The invalidity of a section or
subsection of this ordinance or any part thereof shall not affect
the validity of the remaining sections, subsections or parts
thereof.
Section 3. Emergency. This Ordinance being necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health and safety, an
emergency is declared to exist, and this Ordinance takes effect on
its passage.
DATED this 15 day of December, 1993.
E T:
Recording Secretary
BOARD 01 COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
O=
r\
S COUNTY, OREGON
d
T04 THROOP1hair 7
NANCY POP SC , Commi Toner
BARRY H. SZAUGHTER, Cqfimissioner
1 - ORDINANCE NO. 93- 051 ( 12/ 15/ 93)
KV
@E
11993
01.28- 1102
Chapter 15. 12
System Development Charges
15. 12. 010 Definitions
A. Capital improvement.
1. " Capital improvement" means facilities or assets
used for the following:
i. Water supply, treatment and distribution;
ii. Wastewater collection, transmission, treatment
and disposal;
iii. Drainage and flood control;
iv. Transportation; or
V. Parks and recreation.
2. " Capital improvement" does not include costs of the
operation or routine maintenance of capital improvements.
B. " Improvement fee" means a fee for costs associated with
capital improvements to be constructed.
C. " Reimbursement fee" means a fee for costs associated with
capital improvements already constructed or under construction.
D. " Other governmental unit" refers to any other
governmental unit, as defined in ORS Chapter 223 for whose benefit
Deschutes County collects a system development charge.
E. Qualified public improvement. A " qualified public
improvement" means a capital improvement that is required as a
condition of development approval, identified in the plan adopted
pursuant to section 15. 12. 050, and either:
a) Not located on or contiguous to property that is the
subject of development approval; or
b) Located in whole or in part on or contiguous to property
that is the subject of development approval required to be built
larger or with greater capacity than is necessary for the
particular development project to which the improvement fee is
related.
F. System development charge.
1. " System development charge" means a reimbursement
fee, an improvement fee or a combination thereof assessed or
collected at the time of increased usage of a capital
improvement or issuance of a development permit, building
2 - EXHIBIT A TO ORDINANCE 93- 051 ( 12/ 15/ 93)
0128-- 1103
permit or connection to the capital improvement. System
development charge includes that portion of a sewer or water
system connection charge that is greater than the amount
necessary to reimburse the governmental unit for its average
cost of inspecting and installing connections with water and
sewer facilities.
2. " System development charge" does not include any
fees assessed or collected as part of a local improvement
district or a charge in lieu of a local improvement district
assessment, or the cost of complying with requirements or
conditions imposed upon a land use decision or limited land
use decision.
15. 12. 020 Adoption of system development charges.
A) System development charges, the collection of which are
authorized by ORS 223. 297 through 223. 314, are to be collected from
developers of real property and users or prospective users of
capital improvements and may be established and revised by the
Board of County Commissioners by resolution.
B) Each system development charge resolution shall include
the following:
i) The amount of the fee to be charged,
ii) The purpose of the charge,
iii) The methodology used to establish the charge,
iv) When such fees are to be paid,
v) For improvement fees, provide for a credit when a
qualified public improvement is constructed by the
developer or user who is being required to pay a
system development charge.
15. 12. 030 Crediting Qualified Public Improvements.
Developers shall be credited for qualified public improvements
as provided for in this section. Such credits shall be only for
the improvement fee charged for the type of improvement being
constructed, and credit for qualified public improvements under
Section 15. 12. 010( E)( b) may be granted only for the cost of that
portion of such improvement that exceeds the government unit' s
minimum standard facility size or capacity needed to serve the
particular development project or property. The applicant shall
have the burden of demonstrating that a particular improvement
qualifies for credit under Section 15. 12. 010( E)( b).
15. 12. 040 Authorized Expenditures.
A) Reimbursement fees shall be applied only to capital
improvements associated with the systems for which the fees are
assessed, including repayment of indebtedness.
3 - EXHIBIT A TO ORDINANCE 93- 051 ( 12/ 15/ 93)
0128- 1104
B) Improvement fees shall be spent only on capacity
increasing capital improvements, including expenditures relating to
the repayment of debt for such improvements. An increase in system
capacity occurs if a capital improvement increases the level of
performance or service provided by existing facilities or provided
new facilities. The portion of the improvements funded by
improvement fees must be related to demands created by development.
A capital improvement being funded wholly or in part from revenues
derived from the improvement fee shall be included in the plan
adopted under section 15. 12. 060.
C) Notwithstanding subsections ( A) and ( B) of this section,
system development charge revenue may be expended on the direct
costs of complying with the provisions of this Ordinance; including
the costs of developing system development charge methodologies and
providing an accounting of system development charge expenditures.
15. 12. 050 Expenditure Restrictions.
A) A system development charge shall not be expended for
costs associated with the construction of administrative office
facilities that are more than an incidental part of other capital
improvements.
B) A system development charge shall not be expended for
costs of the operation or routine maintenance of capital
improvements.
15. 12. 060 Improvement Plan.
Capital improvements for which a system development charge has
been imposed shall be included on a capital improvement or public
facilities plan or a similar master plan that lists ( 1) the capital
improvements to be funded by improvement fee revenues, ( 2) the
estimated cost of those improvements, and ( 3) sets forth a
timetable for completion of such improvements.
15. 12. 070 Segregation and Use of Revenue
A) All funds derived from a system development charge shall
be segregated by accounting practices from all other funds of the
County. The system development charge shall be used for no other
purposes than those set forth in the section 15. 12. 040 and the
resolution adopting the charge.
B) Except for those funds for which the County serves as the
collection agent for another governmental unit, the County shall
provide an annual accounting for system development charges showing
the total amount of system development charge revenues collected
for each system and the projects that were funded.
4 - EXHIBIT A TO ORDINANCE 93- 051 ( 12/ 15/ 93)
0128- 11o5
C) System development charge funds collected on behalf of
other governmental units may be transferred to such other
governmental units consistent with the requirements of Section
15. 12. 075 of this Chapter.
15. 12. 075 Collection on Behalf of Other Governmental Units
In those instances in which a systems development charge has
been adopted by and/ or collected by the County on behalf of another
governmental unit, such as Bend Metro Parks and Recreation, for
transfer to such other governmental unit, the other governmental
unit shall agree through an intergovernmental agreement to the
following:
1) To segregate all system development charge funds
transferred by the County from other funds of that
governmental unit;
2) To expend such funds only in accordance with adopted
capital improvement plans complying with the provisions
of ORS Chapter 223;
3) To establish accounting systems that will enable the
district to track the expenditure of said funds;
4) To provide an annual accounting of the expenditure of
said funds;
5) To establish a procedure for handling challenges to the
expenditure of transferred system development charges no
later than one year after the date of adoption of the
system development charge;
6) To participate as a party in any challenge proceeding
administered by the County in which the expenditure by
the other governmental unit of transferred system
development charge funds is an issue;
7) To be the source of funds required to be paid if through
a hearing process administered by the County it is
determined that any system development funds have been
spent other than as authorized by law; and
8) To otherwise indemnify, hold harmless and defend the
County against and from any claims, losses, damages or
any other expenses that the County may incur by reason of
a claim that transferred system development charge funds
have been spent by the other governmental unit in an
unauthorized manner.
5 - EXHIBIT A TO ORDINANCE 93- 051 ( 12/ 15/ 93)
O'1ti8- 1106
15. 12. 080 Challenge of expenditures.
A) Any citizen or interested person may challenge an
expenditure of system development charge revenues based upon an
alleged failure of the County to follow the requirements of ORS
223. 307 by filing a written challenge with the Board of County
Commissioners describing, with particularity, the expenditure which
the person is challenging and the reason that the challenge is
alleged to be unlawful. All such challenges must be brought within
two years of the date of the expenditure challenged.
B) In those instances in which a systems development charge
is adopted and/ or collected by the County on behalf of another
governmental unit, such as Bend Metro Parks and Recreation, any
challenge regarding alleged unauthorized expenditures shall be
directed to that other governmental unit if such other governmental
unit has adopted by ordinance or resolution a procedure consistent
with the requirements of ORS 223. 307 to accept and respond to
challenges to system development charge expenditures. If the other
governmental unit has not adopted such procedures of its own to
accept and respond to challenges, challenges shall be directed to
the County under Sections 15. 12. 080( A) and 15. 12. 090 of this
chapter.
15. 12. 090 Hearing of challenge to expenditures.
Challenges that may properly be heard before the County to an
expenditure of system development charges shall be set for an
administrative hearing before a hearings officer. Such hearings
shall be tape recorded. The person conducting the hearing must not
be one of the persons who authorized the challenged expenditure of
funds. The hearings officer shall provide notice to the person
challenging the expenditure and the public employees or officials
who made the expenditure, of the hearing date, time and place. The
person conducting the hearing shall also provide said persons an
opportunity to present evidence and legal arguments concerning the
matter. If the hearings officer determines that system development
charges were misspent, he or she shall forward a report to the
Board detailing the hearings officer' s findings and indicating the
amount of funds misspent and from where said funds were spent. The
Board shall review the hearings officer' s report and replace any
funds it determines have been misspent with funds derived from
other sources.
15. 12. 100 Prohibited Construction
A) No person, firm or corporation shall construct a
structure to which a system development charge applies unless the
applicable system development charge has been paid.
B) Violation of this provision shall be a Class A
infraction.
6 - EXHIBIT A TO ORDINANCE 93- 051 ( 12/ 15/ 93)