9E'-
4301wv.
I LEGAL COUNSEL
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY,' OREG
An Ordinance Amending Title 20, the * 15 cj ; ` 10: ?}
Redmond Urban Area Zoning Ordinance
and Title 17, the Subdivision and
Partition Ordinance and Declaring
an Emergency.
ORDINANCE NO. 95- 082
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON,
ORDAINS as follows:
Amendments to Redmond Urban Area Zoning Ordinance
Section 1. Chapter 20. 48 of the Redmond Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance is amended to add a new Section 20. 48. 015, " Standards for
Grid Street Network," as follows:
20. 48. 015 Public Works Standards and Specifications
A. Standards
1. All public improvements required in conjunction with
any land use development permitted under this title shall
conform to the City of Redmond Public Works Standards and
Specifications dated September 1995, which document is
incorporated herein by reference.
2. The street system for any land use development shall
also conform to the following design parameters:
a. It is the standard in the Redmond Urban Area to develop
through public streets at a spacing of approximately 660
feet. The purpose is to provide a street grid pattern
of through streets to facilitate traffic movement.
Street designs shall conform to this policy with
allowances for variance to conform to topography and
other existing natural and man- made conditions.
Illustrative examples of other conditions include the
dry canyon, main COI canal, Highway 97, and the
Burlington Northern Railroad tracks.
b. In general, a street ' network is comprised of streets
classified from lower order ( local) to higher order
arterials). The spacing of a proper grid pattern has
principal arterials ( Hwys. 97 and 126) spaced at two
miles or greater, minor arterials at one mile,
collectors at 0. 25 - 0. 50 mile, and local streets at 660
feet. It is the Redmond Urban Area standard to adhere
to this grid spacing as topography and other existing
natural and man- made conditions allow.
C. All proposed streets, alleys and pedestrian pathways
shall connect to other streets within ', development and
EY, i[ D il. i.: vi;: i°1tL1
1 - ORDINANCE 95- 076 ( 12/ 13/ 95)
DSC1 95 DEG 2 " r595
0148- 1551
to existing and planned streets outside the development.
Streets should serve parks, schools or other public
lands within a neighborhood. Local streets shall align
and connect with other streets when crossing collectors
and arterials.
d. New local streets should connect with existing local
streets and collectors and in certain special cases with
arterial streets. Cul- de- sac streets shall be permitted
only where no feasible connection with an adjacent
street exists, or if the local street connection would
be to a higher order street ( arterial) and the function
of that higher order street might be diminished. If
cul- de- sac streets represent more than 10 percent of the
total lane miles in a development, the subdivider shall
be required to demonstrate that alternative internal
circulation layouts ( minimizing cul- de- sacs) are
infeasible.
B. Interpretation in Conjunction with Subdivision
Ordinance
1. The provisions of the City of Redmond Standards and
Specifications referenced herein shall be the design standards for
subdivision and partition approval. Subject areas not covered by
the Redmond Standards and Specifications shall continue to be
covered by applicable provisions of the subdivision and partition
ordinance.
2. Except as set forth herein, the provisions of subsection
2 of this section and applicable provisions of the subdivision and
partition ordinance are meant to be construed in concert with each
other to the maximum extent practicable. The provisions of
subsection 2 of this section shall be interpreted as being a
specific refinement of general requirements regarding subdivision
layout in the subdivision ordinance. Where the provisions of this
section specify more frequent street connections and smaller block
sizes than is set forth in the subdivision and partition
ordinance, the provisions of this section shall prevail."
Amendments to Subdivision Ordinance
Section 2. Section 17. 36. 010, " Compliance Required," of Title 17,
the County Subdivision and Partition Ordinance, is amended to read as
follows:
17. 36. 010 Compliance Required
Except as otherwise set forth in a zoning ordinance, all
land divisions shall be in compliance with the design
standards set forth in this chapter and in Chapter 17. 48 of
this title."
Section 3. Section 17. 36. 150, " Blocks," of Title 17, the County
Subdivision and Partition Ordinance, is amended to read as follows:
2 - ORDINANCE 95- 076 ( 12/ 13/ 95)
0148- 1552
17. 36. 150 Blocks
A. General. The length, width and shape of blocks shall
accommodate the need for adequate building site size, street
width [,] and direct travel routes for pedestrians and
cyclists through the subdivision and to nearby neighborhood
activity centers and shall be compatible with the limitations
of the topography.
B. Size. Within an urban growth boundary, no block shall
be longer than one thousand two hundred ( 1, 200) feet between
street centerlines. In blocks over eight hundred ( 800) feet
in length, there shall be a cross connection consistent with
the provisions of Section 17. 36. 140."
Section 4. Section 17. 48. 010, " Minimum Standards Established," of
Title 17, the County Subdivision and Partition Ordinance, is amended to
read as follows:
17. 48. 010 Minimum Standards Established
A. Except as otherwise noted, t[ T] he standard
specifications for design and construction contained within
this chapter are the minimum standards governing construction
of roads and other improvements and facilities.
B. The minimum standards governing construction of roads
and other improvements and facilities within the Redmond
Urban Area shall be the standards and specifications set
forth in a document entitled " City of Redmond Public Works
Standards and Specifications, September 1995," which document
is incorporated herein by reference. Subject areas not
covered by the Redmond Standards and Specifications shall
continue to be covered by applicable provisions of this
chapter."
Section 5. Table A of Chapter 17, incorporated by reference in
Section 17. 48. 050, " Minimum Standards Established," of Title 17, the
County Subdivision and Partition Ordinance, is amended to delete the
reference in Footnote No. 2 to Redmond, as set forth in Exhibit A
hereto.
Section 6. Additions and Deletions. Deleted language is set
forth between brackets; new language is set forth in bold- faced type.
Section 7. Severability. The provisions of this ordinance are
severable. If any section, sentence, clause or phrase of this
ordinance is adjudged to be invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, that decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this ordinance.
Section 8. Codification. County Legal Counsel shall have the
authority to format the provisions contained herein in a manner that
will integrate them into the County Code consistent with the Deschutes
County Form and Style Manual for Board Documents. Such codification
3 - ORDINANCE 95- 076 ( 12/ 13/ 95)
0148- 1553
shall include the authority to make such changes, to make changes in
numbering systems and to make such numbering changes consistent with
interrelated code sections. In addition, as part of codification of
these ordinances, County Legal Counsel may insert appropriate
legislative history reference. Any legislative history references
included herein are not adopted as part of the substance of this
ordinance, but are included for administrative convenience and as a
reference. They may be changed to correct errors and to conform to
proper style without action of the Board of County Commissioners.
Section 9. Repeal of Ordinances as Affecting Existing
Liabilities. The repeal, express or implied, of any ordinance,
ordinance provision, or code section by this ordinance shall not
release or extinguish any duty, condition, penalty, forfeiture, or
liability incurred under such ordinance, unless a provision of this
ordinance shall so expressly provide, and such ordinance repealed shall
be treated as still remaining in force for the purpose of sustaining
any proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of such duty,
condition, penalty, forfeiture, or liability, and for the purpose of
authorizing the prosecution, conviction and punishment of the person or
persons who violated the repealed ordinance.
Section 10. Emergency. This ordinance being necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health and safety, an
emergency is declared to exist, and this ordinance takes effect on its
passage.
DATED this 13 day of December, 1995.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
OF_ DESCHUTES eGOUNTY, OREGON
ATTEST:
Recording Secr tary
4 - ORDINANCE 95- 076 ( 12/ 13/ 95)
Y H. r.& UGHTER Chairman
C rissioner
RT L. NIPPER, Commissioner