F
88-; 49000
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCF
REV EWED
An Ordinance Amending Ordinance * "
aCF ^ g PF :}}
No. PL - 11, the Bend Urban Area
zoning Ordinance Adopting Findings*
and Conclusions and Declaring an
Emergency.
ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY,
OREGON, ORDAINS as follows:
Section 1. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 4, " Definitions," paragraph 59,
Dude Ranch," is amended to read as follows:
Dude Ranch. A ranch operated wholly or in part as a
resort offering horse - back riding and related activi-
ties as outdoor recreation opportunities and offering
only temporary rental accommodations for vacation use
by nonresidents."
Section 2. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 4, " Definitions," paragraph 70,
Flood," is amended to read as follows:
Flood or Flooding. A general and temporary condition
of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land
areas from:
A. The overflow of inland or tidal waters, and/ or
B. The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff
surface waters from any source."
Section 3. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 4, " Definitions," is amended by
the addition of the following:
1111A. Area of Special Flood Hazard. The land in the
floodplain within Bend subject to a one percent or
greater chance of flooding in any given year. Designa-
tion on maps always includes the letters A or V."
1120A. Babysitter. A person who provides day care
services for children in the home of the babysitter for
not more than five children for eight or more hours in
a 24- hour period as a home occupation."
1121A. Base Flood. The flood having a one percent
chance of being equalled or exceeded in any given year.
1 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
V ?, 995 0066
Also referred to as the 1100 - Year Flood." Designation
on maps always includes the letters A or V."
1121B. Bed and Breakfast Inn. A single- family dwelling
unit where lodging and meals are provided, for compen-
sation, in which no more than two ( 2) guest rooms are
provided for no more than six ( 6) travelers or tran-
sient guests. A guest shall not rent for a time period
longer than fifteen ( 15) consecutive nights."
1128A. Building, Height. The vertical distance from
the average contact ground level of the building to the
highest point of the building."
1156A. Development. Any man- made change to improved or
unimproved real estate, including but not limited to,
buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, paving, excavation or drilling operations
located with the area of special flood hazard."
1171A. Flood Insurance Rate Map ( FIRM). The official
map on which the Federal Insurance Administration has
delineated both the areas of special flood hazards and
the risk premium zones applicable to the community."
1171B. Flood Insurance Study. The official report
provided by the Federal Insurance Administration that
includes flood profiles, the Flood Boundary- Floodway
Map and the water surface elevation of the base flood."
1171C. Floodway. The channel of a river or other
watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must be
reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation
more than one foot."
11109A. Lowest Floor. The lowest floor of the lowest
enclosed area ( including basement). An unfinished or
flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other
than a basement area, is not considered a building' s
lowest floor, provided that such enclosure is not built
so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non - elevation design requirements of
Section 23( 7)."
11144A. Residential Care. Services such as supervi-
sion; protection; assistance while bathing, dressing,
grooming or eating; management of money; transporta-
tion; recreation and the providing of room and board."
2 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
0095 0067
11144B. Residential Care Facility. A facility that
provides residential care for six or more physically
handicapped or socially dependent individuals and which
is licensed by the State Department of Senior
Services."
11145A. Roadside Stand. A temporary structure, vehicle
or area designed or used for the display or sale of
merchandise on the premises upon which such a stand is
located."
11177A. Zero Lot Line Subdivision or Partition. A type
of residential subdivision or partition utilizing zero
lot lines between dwelling units and providing for
individual ownership of each lot."
Section 4. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 10 " Urban Area Reserve
Zone - UAR- 10," subsection ( 2), " Permitted Uses," is amended by
the addition of the following:
F. Manufactured homes meeting the standards of Sec-
tion 28 of this Ordinance as ' Class A' manufactured
homes and located in a parcel of five ( 5) acres or
larger in size."
Section 5. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 10, " Urban Area Reserve Zone -
UAR- 10," subsection ( 3), " Conditional Uses," paragraph ( M), is
amended to read as follows:
M. Manufactured homes meeting the standards of Sec-
tion 28 of this Ordinance as a ' Class A' manufactured
home and located on a parcel of less than five ( 5)
acres in size."
Section 6. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 12, " Suburban Low Density Residen-
tial District - SR 2 1/ 2 District," subsection ( 2), " Permitted
Uses," is amended by the addition of the following:
E. Manufactured homes meeting the standards of Sec-
tion 28 of this Ordinance as a ' Class A' manufactured
home and located on a parcel of five ( 5) acres or
larger in size."
Section 7. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 12, " Suburban Low Density Residen-
tial District - SR 2 1/ 2 District," subsection ( 3), " Conditional
Uses," paragraph H, is amended to read as follows:
3 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
0095 0068
H. Manufactured homes meeting the standards of Sec-
tion 28 of this Ordinance as a ' Class A' manufactured
home and located on a parcel less than five ( 5) acres
in size.
Section 8. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 14, " Urban Standard Residential
Zone - RS Zone," subsection ( 3), " Conditional Uses," is amended
by the addition of the following:
U. Dwelling groups, subject to the provisions of
subsection ( 25) of Section 26.
V. Radio and television transmission facilities.
W. Bed and breakfast inn, subject to the standards set
forth in Section 26, subsection ( 26).
X. Residential care facility."
Section 9. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 15, " Urban Medium Density Residen-
tial Zone - RM Zone," subsection ( 2), " Permitted Uses,"
paragraph H, is amended to read as follows:
H. Day care, kindergarten or nursery school."
Section 10. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 15, " Urban Medium Density Residen-
tial Zone - RM Zone," subsection ( 2), " Permitted Uses," is
amended by the addition of the following:
I. Farming, excluding the keeping of livestock."
Section 11. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 15, " Urban Medium Density Residen-
tial Zone - RM Zone," subsection ( 3), " Conditional Uses," is
amended by the addition of the following:
O. Radio and television transmission facilities."
Section 12. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 16, " Urban High Density Residen-
tial Zone - RH Zone," subsection ( 7), " Special Yards and Dis-
tances Between Buildings," is amended to read as follows:
117. Special Yards and Distances Between Buildings.
The following special yards and distances between
buildings shall be provided:
4 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
4095 G069
A. An inner court providing access to
double - row dwelling groups shall be a minimum
of 20 feet.
B. The distance between principal buildings
shall be at least 10 feet. This requirement
shall also apply to portions of the same
buildings separated from each other by a
court or other open space."
Section 13. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 18, " Limited Commercial Zone - CL
Zone," subsection ( 2), " Permitted Uses," paragraph Z, is amended
to read as follows:
Z. Hardware store or paint store."
Section 14. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 18, " Limited Commercial Zone - CL
Zone," subsection ( 2), " Permitted Uses," is amended by the addi-
tion of the following:
uu. Bus terminal."
Section 15. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 18( 3), " Limited Commercial
Zone - CL Zone," " Conditional Uses," paragraph A, is amended to
read as follows:
A. New residential dwelling units, excluding mobile
home parks."
Section 16. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 18A., " Convenience Commercial Zone
CC Zone", subsection ( 2), " Permitted Uses", paragraph T, is
amended to read as follows:
T. Food and health food store."
Section 17. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 18A., " Convenience Commercial Zone
CC Zone", subsection ( 3), " Conditional Uses", is amended by the
addition of the following:
J. A building over 30 feet in height."
Section 18. Ordinance No. PL - ll, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 18A( 3), " Convenience Commercial
Zone - CC Zone," " Conditional Uses," paragraph A, is amended to
read as follows:
5 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
0095 0070
A. New residential dwelling units, excluding mobile
home parks."
Section 19. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 18A., " Convenience Commercial Zone
CC Zone", subsection ( 4), " Height Regulations", is amended to
read as follows:
114. Height Regulations. No building or structure
shall be hereafter erected, enlarged or structurally
altered to exceed a height of 30 feet without a con-
ditional use permit."
Section 20. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 18A., " Convenience Commercial Zone
CC Zone", subsection ( 7), " Other Required Conditions", is
amended by the addition of the following:
D. See Section 26, " Provisions Applying to Special
Uses," where applicable."
Section 21. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 19, " Highway Commercial Zone - CH
Zone," subsection ( 2), " Permitted Uses," is amended by the addi-
tion of the following:
dd. Bus terminal."
Section 22. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 19, " Highway Commercial Zone - CH
Zone," subsection ( 3), " Conditional Uses," paragraph E, is
amended to read as follows:
E. Building over 30 feet in height."
Section 23. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 19, " Highway Commercial Zone - CH
Zone," subsection ( 3), " Conditional Uses," paragraph K, is
amended to read as follows:
K. Residential use, excluding mobile home parks."
Section 24. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 19A., " General Commercial Zone -
CG Zone," subsection ( 2), " Permitted Uses," is amended by the
addition of the following:
N. Bus terminal."
Section 25. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 19A., " General Commercial
6 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
095 0®', 1
Zone - CG Zone," subsection ( 3), " Conditional Uses," paragraph C,
is amended to read as follows:
C. Residential use subject to the standards of the RH
zone, excluding mobile home parks."
Section 26. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 20, " Industrial Park Zone - IP
Zone," subsection ( 2), " Permitted Uses," is amended by the dele-
tion of paragraph ( H).
Section 27. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 21, " Light Industrial Zone - IL
Zone," subsection ( 2), " Permitted Uses," is amended by the dele-
tion of paragraph ( Q).
Section 28. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 21, " Light Industrial Zone - IL
Zone," subsection ( 2), " Permitted Uses," is amended by the addi-
tion of the following:
S. Wholesale distribution of all standard types of
prepared or packaged merchandise such as automobile
supplies, drug and electrical supplies, furniture, food
products, hardware, leather goods, plumbing supplies,
textiles and fabrics and general merchandise."
Section 29. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 21, " Light Industrial Zone - IL
Zone," subsection ( 2), " Permitted Uses," paragraph H, is amended
to read as follows:
H. Assembly, manufacture or preparation of articles
and merchandise from the following previously prepared
types of materials: bone, canvas, cellophane, cloth,
cork, feathers, felt, leather, precious or semi- pre-
cious metal or stones, shell, textiles, tobacco, wax,
wire, wood ( excluding sawmills, lumbermills, planing
mills, molding plants, particle board, wafer board,
plywood and pulp process) yarns and paint not employing
a boiling process.
Section 30. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 21, " Light Industrial Zone - IL
Zone," subsection ( 7), " Other Required Conditions," paragraph A,
is amended to read as follows:
A. All business, service, repair, processing, storage
or merchandise display on property abutting or across
the street from a lot in an R zone shall be conducted
wholly within an enclosed building unless screened from
the R Zone by a sight - obscuring fence or wall."
7 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
0095 0011720
Section 31. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 22, " General Industrial Zone - IG
Zone," subsection ( 2), " Permitted Uses," is amended by the addi-
tion of the following:
C. Public buildings and public utility structures and
yards, including railroad yards.
D. Veterinary clinic.
E. Commercial parking lot.
F. Planned unit development subject to the provisions
of Section 30.
G. Accessory uses and buildings customarily
appurtenant to a permitted use, such as incidental
storage."
Section 32. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 23, " Flood Plain Combining Zone -
FP Zone" is amended to read as follows:
Section 23. FLOOD PLAIN COMBINING ZONE - FP ZONE.
l. Purpose. It is the purpose of this zone to pro-
mote the public health, safety and general welfare, and
to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed:
A. To protect human life and health;
B. To minimize expenditure of public money and
costly flood control projects;
C. To minimize the need for rescue and relief
efforts associated with flooding and generally
undertaken at the expense of the general public;
D. To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
E. To minimize damage to public facilities and
utilities such as water and gas mains, electric,
telephone and sewer lines and streets and bridges
located in areas of special flood hazard;
F. To help maintain a stable tax base by provid-
ing for the sound use and development of areas of
special flood hazards so as to minimize future
flood blight areas;
8 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
0095 0073
G. To ensure that potential buyers are notified that
property is in an area of special flood hazard; and
H. To ensure that those who occupy the areas of
special flood hazard assume responsibility for
their actions.
112. Application of FP Zone.
A. The FP Combining Zone shall apply to the area
identified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map ( FIRM)
as special flood hazard areas inundated by 100 -
year flood and floodway areas. The FIA Flood
Insurance Study for Bend and the FIRM map are
hereby adopted and by this reference included
herein. The A and AE zones shown on the FIRM map
are hereby zoned FP.
B. When base flood elevation data has not been
provided on the FIRM, the Planning Director shall
obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base
flood elevation and floodway data available from a
federal, state or other source in order to admini-
ster this section.
C. Information to be obtained and maintained:
a. Where base flood elevation data is pro-
vided through the Flood Insurance Study or as
required in subsection ( 2)( B), record the
actual elevation ( in relation to mean sea
level) of the lowest floor ( including base-
ment ) of all new or substantially improved
structures and whether or not the structure
contains a basement.
b. For all new or substantially improved
floodproofed structures, record the actual
elevation ( in relation to mean sea level) of
the structures lowest floor. Obtain and
maintain the floodproofing certifications
required in Section 23( 7)( B).
113. Warning and Disclaimer of Liability. The degree
of flood protection required by this Section is consid-
ered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on
scientific and engineering considerations. Larger
floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man- made or natural causes.
This Ordinance does not imply that land outside the
areas will be free from flooding or flood damages.
This Ordinance shall not create liability on the part
9 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
0095 0074
of the County, any officer or employee thereof, or the
Federal Insurance Administration for any flood damages
that result from reliance on this Ordinance or any
administrative decision made hereunder.
114. Alteration of Watercourses.
A. Prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, notice of the proposed alteration
shall be given to affected, adjacent communities
and the State Department of Water Resources and
evidence of such notification submitted to the
Federal Insurance Administration.
B. The applicant shall maintain the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the
flood carrying capacity is not diminished.
115. Permit for Use or Development in an FP Zone. No
development shall occur in an FP Zone unless a permit
has been received for the work. Except for improvement
of an existing structure which is less than substan-
tial, as determined by the County, no permit shall be
issued unless the work will be reasonably safe from
flooding, otherwise complies with this Ordinance, and
all necessary state, federal and local permits will be
obtained as a condition of approval on any permit in an
FP Zone. The following information shall be submitted
with the permit application:
A. The location of the property with reference to
channel locations and flood profile elevations.
B. The existing topography and proposed grading
plan for the property. Contour intervals shall
not be more than one - foot for ground slopes up to
five percent and, for areas immediately adjacent
to a stream, two - foot for ground slopes between
five and ten percent and five- foot for greater
slopes.
C. The location of existing and proposed diking
or revetments, if any.
D. Review of building permits. Where elevation
data is not available either through the Flood
Insurance Study or from another authoritative
source, applications for building permits shall be
reviewed to assure that proposed construction will
be reasonably safe from flooding.
10 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
9995 0073
116. Structural Elevation Data Required.
A. A building permit application for substantial
improvement to an existing structure or for a new
structure within an FP Zone shall contain the
following data referenced to mean sea level.
a. The level of the lowest habitable floor
and of any basement floor whether or not
intended to be habitable.
b. The level to which the structure is to be
floodproofed, if applicable.
B. A statement which notes whether the structure
contains a basement.
C. The information required by this subsection
shall be maintained in the files of the Building
Department with the subject building permit.
117. Regulation of Structures in an FP Zone.
A. Residential Construction.
a. New construction and substantial improve-
ment of any residential structure shall have
the lowest floor, including basement, ele-
vated to or above base flood elevation.
b. Fully enclosed areas below the lowest
floor that are subject to flooding are pro-
hibited unless designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. Designs for meeting this re-
quirement must either by certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect
or must meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
1. A minimum of two openings having a
total net area of not less than one
square inch for every square foot of
enclosed area subject to flooding shall
be provided.
2. Openings may be equipped with
screens, louvers or other coverings or
devices provided that they permit the
automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.
11 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
0®95 0076
3. The bottom of all openings shall be
no higher than one foot above grade.
B. Non- residential Construction. New construc-
tion and substantial improvement of any commer-
cial, industrial or other non- residential struc-
ture shall either have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated to the level of the base flood
elevation, or together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities shall:
a. Be floodproofed so that below the base
flood level the structure is watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the pas-
sage of water;
b. Have structural components capable of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads
and effects of buoyancy;
c. Be certified by a registered professional
engineer or architect that the design and
methods of construction are in accordance
with accepted standards of practice for
meeting provisions of this subsection based
on their development and/ or review of the
structural design, specifications and plans.
Such certifications shall be provided to the
County' s Building Official.
d. Non- residential structures that are
elevated, not floodproofed, must meet the
same standards for space below the lowest
floor as described in Section 23( 7)( A)( a).
e.
Applicants floodproofing non- residential
buildings shall be notified that flood insur-
ance premiums will be based on rates for
buildings that are one foot below the flood -
proofed level ( e. g., a building constructed
to the base flood level will be rated as one
foot below that level).
C. Manufactured Homes. All manufactured homes to
be placed or substantially improved within the FP
zone shall be elevated on a permanent foundation
such that the lowest floor of the manufactured
home is at or above the base flood elevation and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored
foundation system in accordance with the provi-
sions of Section 23( 7)( A)( b).
12 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
1 11 0095 0077
118. Construction Materials and Methods.
A. All new construction and substantial improve-
ment shall be constructed with materials and
utility equipment resistent to flood damage.
B. All new construction and substantial improve-
ments shall be constructed using methods and
practices that minimize flood damage.
C. Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and
air- conditioning equipment and other service
facilities shall be designed and/ or otherwise
elevated or located so as to prevent water from
entering or accumulating within the components
during conditions of flooding.
119. Land Development Standards in a Flood Hazard Area.
A. In addition to the terms of subsections 7 and
8 of this section, a subdivision or other land
development, including all utility facilities,
within an FP zone shall be designed and con-
structed to minimize flood damage, including
special provisions for adequate drainage to reduce
exposure to flood hazards.
B. A land development which will alter or relo-
cate a watercourse shall be designed, constructed
and maintained to retain the flood - carrying capa-
city of the watercourse.
C. A proposed land development of greater than
either 50 lots or 5 acres shall include data
showing the base flood elevation.
1110. Manufactured Home Development Standards.
A. All manufactured homes to be placed or sub-
stantially improved within the FP zone shall be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the
lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or one
foot above the base flood elevation and shall be
securely anchored to an adequately anchored found-
ation system in accordance with the provisions of
Section 23 ( 7) ( A) ( b) .
B. The placement of a manufactured home in the
floodway is prohibited.
13 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
0095 0078
11. Utilities Standards in a Flood Hazard Area.
A. A public utility or facility associated with a
land development within an FP zone shall be desig-
ned, located and constructed to minimize or elimi-
nate flood damage and to avoid raising the water
elevation in a regulatory floodway.
B. Any new or replacement water supply system
shall be designed, located and constructed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the system.
C. Any new or replacement sewerage system shall
be designed, located and constructed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters in to the
system and discharge from the system into the
floodwaters.
1112. Floodways. located within areas of special flood
hazard established in Section 23( 2)( A) are areas desig-
nated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters which
carry debris, potential projectiles and erosion poten-
tial, the following provisions apply:
A. Encroachments, including fill, new construc-
tion, substantial improvements and other develop-
ment are prohibited unless certification by a
registered professional engineer or architect is
provided demonstrating that encroachments shall
not result in any increase in flood levels during
the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
B. If subsection ( A) above is satisfied, all new
construction and substantial improvements shall
comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction
provisions of Section 23( 7).
1113. Technical Variances. A technical variance from
the requirements of Section 23 may be granted by the
Planning Director or Hearings Body for new construction
and for improvements to existing structures which could
not otherwise be authorized, provided the construction
or improvements are to be erected or installed on a
parcel of land one- half acre or less in size, contig-
uous to or substantially surrounded by lots with exist-
ing structures constructed below the minimum floor
elevation established for flood protection purposes. A
parcel of land in excess of the one- half acre in single
ownership on the effective date of this Ordinance is
not excluded from the granting of a technical variance,
14 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
11,
0095 0079
but the burden of proof required for issuing the vari-
ance increases as the size of the property under single
ownership increases, and the variance shall be granted
only if required to equalize circumstances, considering
previously developed land adjacent to the parcel for
which a variance is sought.
1114. Historic Variance. A variance for historic
preservation may be granted for the reconstruction,
rehabilitation or restoration of a structure listed on
the National Register of Historic Places or the State
Inventory of Historic Places.
1115. Other Variances. All other variance applications
shall be considered according to the terms of Section
31 of this Ordinance and the following factors:
A. The danger that materials may be swept onto
others' property.
B. The danger to life and property due to flood-
ing or erosion damage.
C. The susceptibility of the proposed facility to
the flood damage and the effect of such damage on
the individual owner.
D. The importance of the services provided to the
community by the proposed facility.
E. The necessity to the use of a waterfront
location, where applicable.
F. The availability of alternate locations not
subject to flooding or erosion damage.
G. The relationship of the use to the area flood-
plain management program.
H. The safety of access to the property in times
of flood for ordinary and emergency vehicles.
I. The expected height, velocity, duration, rate
of rise and sediment transport of the floodwaters
and the effect of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site.
J. The cost of providing governmental and utility
services during and after flood conditions includ-
ing maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and
water systems, streets and bridges.
15 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
0095 009),
1116. Applicants for a variance shall include with
their application the following information:
A. The location of the property with reference to
channel location and flood profile elevation.
B. The existing topography and proposed grading
plan for the property. Contour intervals shall
not be more than one - foot for ground slopes up to
five percent and for areas immediately adjacent to
a stream, two - foot for ground slopes between five
and ten percent and five- foot for greater slopes.
C. The location of existing and proposed diking
or revetments, if any.
1117. Granting of Variances. The Hearings Body or
Planning Director may grant a variance upon a finding
that the variance will not result in increased flood
heights, additional threats to public safety or extra-
ordinary public expense."
Section 33. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 24, " Site Plan Review", is amended
to read as follows:
Section 24. SITE PLAN APPROVAL.
111. Purpose. The purpose of site plan approval is to
ensure compliance with the objectives of this Ordinance
and the Comprehensive Plan where development may cause
a conflict between uses in the same or adjoining zones
by creating unsightly, unhealthful or unsafe conditions
and thereby adversely affecting the public health,
safety and general welfare. The purpose shall also be
to avoid creating undue burdens on public facilities
and services. In considering a site plan, the Planning
Director or Hearings Body shall take into account the
impact of the proposed development on nearby proper-
ties, on the capacity of the street system, on land
values and development potential of the area and on the
appearance of the street and community.
112. Site Plan Requirements. In all zones, except for
a single- family, duplex or triplex unit on one lot, all
new uses, buildings, outdoor storage or sales areas and
parking lots or alterations thereof shall be subject to
the provisions of this section. Site plan approval
shall not be required where a proposed alteration of an
existing building does not exceed 25% of the size of
the original structure unless the Planning Director
finds the original structure or proposed alteration
16 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
0095 0®81
does not meet the requirements of this Ordinance or
other ordinances of the County.
113. Non - Compliance.
A. Non- compliance with a final approved site plan
or development agreement shall be treated as a
zoning ordinance violation.
B. The applicant shall demonstrate continued com-
pliance with the approved landscape plan estab-
lished under this section.
114. Procedure.
A. Prior to filing a site plan application, the
applicant shall be encouraged to confer with the
Planning Department concerning the requirements of
formal application.
B. The site plan application shall be filed on a
form provided by the Planning Department and shall
be accompanied by drawings containing information
as specified by the Planning Department. A mini-
mum of eight ( 8) copies of the site plan shall be
submitted along with such additional information
as is deemed necessary for the Planning Director
or Hearings Body to adequately review the applica-
tion.
C. The Planning Director or Hearings Body shall
approve, with or without conditions, or disapprove
the site plan. In approving the plan, the Plan-
ning Director or Hearings Body shall find that all
provisions of this Ordinance are complied with and
that all buildings and facilities, access points,
parking and loading facilities, lighting and walls
or fences are so arranged that traffic congestion
is avoided and pedestrian and vehicular safety and
welfare are protected and there will be minimal
adverse effect on surrounding property. The
decision of the Planning Director or Hearings Body
shall be final unless appealed in accordance with
the County' s land use procedures.
115. The Planning Director or Hearings Body may require
the following in addition to the minimum standards of
this Ordinance as a condition for site plan approval.
A. An increase in the required yards.
B. Additional off- street parking.
17 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
C. Screening of the proposed use by a fence or
landscaping or combination thereof.
D. Limitations on the size, location and number
of lights.
E. Limitations on the number and location of curb
cuts.
F. Dedication of land for the creation or en-
largement of streets where the existing street
system will be impacted by or inadequate to handle
the additional burden caused by the proposed use.
G. Improvement, including but not limited to
paving, curbing, installing of traffic signals and
constructing sidewalks of the street system which
serves the proposed use where the existing street
system will be burdened by the proposed use.
H. Improvement or enlargement of utilities serv-
ing the proposed use where the existing utilities
system will be burdened by the proposed use.
Improvements may include, but shall not be limited
to, extension of utility facilities to serve the
proposed use and installation of fire hydrants.
I. Landscaping of the site.
J. Any other limitations or conditions which it
considers necessary to achieve the purposes of
this Ordinance.
116. Agreement and Security. The developer and owner
shall, as a condition of approval, execute a develop-
ment agreement for any improvements required on a form
approved by the County Counsel and may be required to
file with the County a performance bond or other secur-
ity as approved by the County Counsel to assure full
performance of the required improvements. The bond
shall be for the cost of the improvements plus 10%.
117. Site Plan Criteria. Approval of a site plan shall
be based on the following criteria:
A. Safety and Privacy. Residential site plans
shall be designed to provide a safe living en-
vironment while offering appropriate opportunities
for privacy and transitions from public to private
spaces.
18 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
0095 00& 3
B. Special Needs of Handicapped. When deemed
appropriate, the site plan shall provide for the
special needs of handicapped persons, such as
ramps for wheelchairs, drop curbs and handicapped
parking stalls.
C. Preservation of Natural Landscape. The land-
scape and existing grade shall be preserved to the
maximum practical degree, considering development
constraints and suitability of the landscape or
grade to serve the applicant' s functions. Pre-
served trees and shrubs shall be protected during
construction.
D. Pedestrian and Vehicular Circulation and
Parking. The location and number of points of
access to the site, the interior circulation
patterns, designs of parking areas and the separa-
tion between pedestrians and moving and parked
vehicles shall be designed to promote safety and
avoid congestion on adjacent streets.
E. Buffering and Screening. Areas, structures and
facilities for storage, machinery and equipment,
services ( mail, refuse, utility wires and the
like), loading and parking and similar accessory
areas and structures shall be designed, located,
buffered or screened to minimize adverse impacts
to the site and neighboring properties.
F. Utilities. All utility installations above
ground, if such are allowed, shall be located so
as to minimize adverse impacts on the site and
neighboring properties.
G. Public Facilities. The proposed use shall not
be an undue burden on public facilities, such as
the street, sewer or water system.
118. Rectuired Minimum Standards.
A. Minimum Landscaping Standards. All develop-
ments subject to site plan approval shall meet the
following minimum standards for landscaping:
a. A minimum of 15% of the area of a project
for multi - family, commercial and industrial
development shall be landscaped, subject to
site plan approval.
b. Street Trees. The placement, spacing and
pruning of street trees shall be as follows,
although the Planning Director or Hearings
19 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
a
095 0084
Body may adjust the placement standard for
special site conditions:
1. Street trees shall be located a
minimum of three feet from the face of a
curb.
2. Trees shall be placed a maximum of
thirty feet apart. Trees shall be
evenly spaced, with variations to the
spacing permitted for specific site
limitations and safety purposes.
3. An approved tree grate shall be used
for trees planted in paved or concrete
area.
4. As trees grow, they shall be pruned
to provide a minimum clearance of eight
feet above sidewalk and fourteen feet
above street, alley or roadway surfaces.
5. Existing trees may be used as street
trees if they are not killed or damaged
from any new development. Sidewalks of
variable width and elevation may be
utilized to save existing street trees.
6. Existing street trees removed by
development projects shall be replaced
by the developer.
c. Areas of commercial and industrial zones
used for vehicle maneuvering, parking, load-
ing or storage shall be landscaped and
screened as follows:
1. Landscape coverage of the landscape
area shall be fifty percent at the time
of installation and ninety percent at
five years.
2. Parking lot landscaping shall con-
sist of a minimum of seven percent of
the total parking area plus a ratio of
one tree per ten parking spaces to
create a canopy effect.
3. Landscape buffers between parking
areas and streets shall have a minimum
width of three feet with no car overhang
and eight feet with a car overhang.
20 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
0095 0083
4. Landscape buffers between parking
abutting a property line shall have a
minimum width of three feet.
5. Front or exterior yard landscaping
may not be substituted for the interior
landscaping required for interior park-
ing stalls.
6. There shall be a minimum distance of
five feet between parking areas and
buildings in parking areas adjacent to
residential dwellings and a five foot
minimum height and width of a continuous
evergreen hedge screen ( or five foot
minimum height of wall or fence) in two
years from the date a building permit is
issued.
7. There shall be a minimum width of
ten feet for landscape buffers between
buildings adjacent to streets.
8. Landscape buffers shall consist of
evergreen ground cover and shrubs mixed
with a variety of flowering and decid-
uous species of trees and shrubs.
9. Landscaping in a parking or loading
area shall have a width of not less than
five feet. Landscaping in a parking or
loading area shall be located in defined
landscaped areas which are uniformly
distributed throughout the parking or
loading area.
d. Provision shall be made for the irriga-
tion of planting areas.
e. Required landscaping shall be contin-
uously maintained.
f. Vegetation planted in accordance with an
approved site plan shall be maintained by the
owner, any heir or assignee. Plants or trees
that die or are damaged shall be replaced and
maintained.
B. Shared Areas. Usable outdoor
shall be provided for the shared
and their guests in any apartment
development as follows:
21 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
recreation space
use of residents
residential
I
0495 00843
a. Units with one or two bedrooms: 200
square feet of lawn per unit.
b. Units with three or more bedrooms: 300
square feet of lawn per unit.
C. Storage. Areas shall be provided in residen-
tial developments for the storage of articles such
as bicycles, barbecues, luggage, outdoor furni-
ture, etc.
D. Drainage. Surface drainage shall be contained
on site."
Section 34. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 25, " Off - Street Parking and
Loading," subsection ( 4), " Number of Spaces Required," paragraph
F), " Commercial," is amended by the addition of the following:
Beauty parlor and 3 spaces for each of the
barber shop first 2 beauty or barber
chairs, and 1 1/ 2 spaces
for each additional
chair."
Section 35. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 25A, " Special Setback Provisions
on Certain Streets," is amended by the addition of the following:
112. Landscape Strips and Special Building Lines -
Purpose and Designation of Streets. The purpose of
this provision is to conserve and enhance the appear-
ance of the community along certain streets of special
significance to the community. These streets are the
entrance to the City for the traveling public and the
most frequently used streets in the community by the
general public. The deterioration of the general
appearance of these streets will adversely affect the
health, safety and general welfare of the people of the
County. Therefore, there is hereby specified and
hereby established on all properties abutting the
following named streets and sections of streets a 10 -
foot building setback line from the street right- of- way
line. Said areas within this special setback shall be
landscaped and continuously maintained by the property
owner. Said landscaping shall be installed upon the
enlargement of the principal structure on the property,
the expansion of the use on the property or upon the
change in use on any property within the specified
sections of streets. Where applicable, the require-
ments set forth in this provision shall supercede the
yard requirements specified for the zones."
22 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
0005 008
Section 36. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 26, " Provisions Applying to
Special Uses," is amended by the addition of the following:
1125. Dwelling Groups.
A. Purpose. This section is intended to make possible
a more desirable living environment than would be poss-
ible through a strict application of the provisions of
this Ordinance. It is intended to encourage reserva-
tion of a greater proportion of open space for visual
and recreational uses; to encourage efficient, aesthe-
tic and desirable uses of land; and to encourage
greater diversity and variety in the physical develop-
ment pattern of the County. A permit may not be issued
for the erection of a dwelling group unless such dwell-
ing group conforms to all of the following conditions
and requirements:
a. The area of the lot on which the dwelling
group is to be erected shall be at least 20 per-
cent greater than the aggregate of the minimum lot
areas otherwise required for the individual dwell-
ings in the group.
b. Each building containing a dwelling in the
group shall front either on a street or other
public open space at least 50 feet wide or on a
common yard or outer court, public or private, not
less than 50 feet wide.
c. The distances between two principal buildings
shall not be less than the average of their
heights and the distance between any principal
buildings and the nearest lot line other than a
front lot line shall not be less than the height
of the building.
d. Every building containing a dwelling in the
group shall be within 60 feet of an access roadway
or drive having a right- of- way of at least 20 -
feet in width providing vehicular access from a
public street.
e. Such dwelling group shall conform to all of
the requirements of this Ordinance for the dis-
trict in which it is to be located, except as
provided in this section.
f. All dwelling groups shall be subject to site
plan approval as provided in section 24."
23 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
Y
1126. Bed and Breakfast Inn. The inn shall be subject
to an annual review for at least the first three years
after which time, the Planning Director or Hearings
Body, after public hearings, may approve a permanent
permit for the inn. The following minimum standards
shall also apply:
A. All inns shall be owner - occupied.
B. Each guest room shall have one off- street
parking space, in addition to the parking required
for the dwelling by the provisions of Section 25.
C. All inns shall be inspected and approved by
the County Building Official prior to the issuance
of an occupancy permit. Inspection is limited to
egress and fire protection. Dwellings must meet
all requirements for egress as defined in the
State of Oregon Uniform Building Code. A fee
shall be paid for inspections.
D. Only rooms designed as sleeping rooms shall be
used for guest rooms. Guest rooms shall be pro-
tected by a smoke detector as required by state
code.
E. There shall be at least 400 feet of separation
along the same street between inns.
F. Signing shall be in accordance with the County
Sign Ordinance.
G. The bed and breakfast inn shall maintain an
up- to- date guest register listing all guests.
H. If an approved inn is not established within
one year of the approval date, or if the use of
the residence as an inn lapses for over one year,
the approval shall automatically expire and a new
application will be required.
I. All inns shall comply with the provisions of
the County' s Transient Room Tax Ordinance, where
applicable."
1127. Temporary Use. Temporary structures and uses are
permitted only after obtaining a temporary use permit
from the Planning Director, and as follows:
24 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
0095 0989
A. In the CC, CL, CG, CH and CB zones:
a. Christmas tree sales from November 26 to
December 31.
b. Fireworks sales from June 23 to July 5.
c. Non- profit organizations' fund- raising
sales if the non- profit status of said organ-
ization is recognized by the Internal Revenue
Service, not to exceed 15 days in any 60 - day
period.
B. In the CH zone, other temporary uses may be
allowed for a period not to exceed 15 days in any
60 - day period. Use of a parcel for more than one
temporary use in any 60 - day period shall be sub-
ject to site plan review in accordance with all
standards of this Ordinance.
C. All temporary uses allowed by Section ( 27) ( A) and
B) above shall satisfy the following standards:
a. All necessary permits shall be obtained
from the County Environmental Health and
Building Divisions.
b. All signs shall not exceed a combined
total of 32 square feet or a sign permit
shall be obtained in accordance with the
County Sign Ordinance.
c. All material employed in the temporary
use, such as produce, shelters and debris,
shall be removed by the applicant or property
owner at the end of the activity.
d. Access and parking shall be adequate for
the use."
1128. Manufactured Homes.
A. General Provisions.
a. Manufactured home parks are permitted with
site plan review approval in the RM and RH zones
in accordance with the standards of this section
and the standards for site plan approval.
b. In addition, manufactured home parks and
subdivisions may be planned under the provisions
for planned developments, which may be used to
25 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
0095 029
provide for individual ownership of manufactured
homes and sites and common ownership and mainte-
nance of other lands and facilities.
c. Manufactured home subdivisions for Class A
manufactured homes are permitted with site plan
approval in the RS zone in accordance with the
standards in this section and all other provisions
of this Ordinance. Manufactured home subdivisions
for Class B manufactured homes are permitted as a
conditional use in the RS zone in accordance with
the standards of this Ordinance.
d. Nothing in these provisions shall be inter-
preted as superseding deed covenants or restric-
tions.
e. Except as otherwise provided by this section,
the standards for subdividing and developing land
within manufactured home parks and subdivisions
shall be the same as for all other developments in
accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance.
f. State Requirements. Where standards for
manufactured home developments are established by
state law or Department of Commerce Administrative
Rule, such requirements shall be in addition to
the provisions of this section.
g. Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety
Standards Code ( also referred to as the HUD Code).
Title VI of the 1974 Housing and Community Devel-
opment Act ( 42 U. S. C. 5401 et seq), as amended
previously known as the Federal Mobile Home Con-
struction and Safety Act), rules and regulations
adopted thereunder ( including information supplied
by the home manufacturer, which has been stamped
and approved by a Design Approval Primary Inspec-
tion Agency, and agent of the U. S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development pursuant to HUD
rules), and regulations and interpretations of
said code by the Oregon Department of Commerce,
all of which became effective for mobile/ manufac-
tured home construction on June 15, 1976, shall be
utilized as the minimum construction standard of
the County to which all manufactured home place-
ments shall comply except as may be exempted by
this section.
h. Definitions. For purposes of this section
only, the definitions of terms used herein and not
defined in Section 4 of this Ordinance shall be as
26 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
defined in ORS Chapter 446 or Oregon Administra-
tive Rules Chapter 814, Division 23, as amended.
B. Manufactured Home Classes. For purposes of these
regulations, manufactured homes are divided into the
following types:
a. A Class A manufactured home shall:
1. Have more than one thousand ( 1, 000)
square feet of occupied space in a double -
section or larger multi - section unit;
2. Be placed onto a permanent foundation as
specified in Section 26( 28)( C)( b);
3. Have wheels, axles and hitch mechanisms
removed;
4. Have utilities connected in accordance with
Oregon Department of Commerce requirements and
manufacturer' s specifications;
5. Bear an insignia of compliance with the
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety
Standards Code and be either:
i. A new, not previously occupied unit;
or
ii. A unit which is found, upon inspec-
tion, to be in good condition and free
of structural, electrical, mechanical
and plumbing defects, any of which must
be corrected prior to placement.
6. Have shake, shingle, composition or tile
roofing materials similar in appearance to
the most predominant type in the area. The
roof pitch shall be a minimum of 3/ 12;
7. Siding materials and trim shall be simi-
lar in appearance or complementary to other
homes in the area including the type, color
and horizontal or vertical placement of mate-
rials;
8. If a garage or
it shall be of like
the dwelling;
27 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
carport will be provided,
materials and color to
b.
C.
0095 000,2
9. The location and design of porches,
patios, driveways, walkways and landscaping
shall be reflective of and complementary to
the features of homes in the area;
10. If new and previously unoccupied, shall
be certified to meet energy efficiency per-
formance standards equivalent to energy effi-
ciency standards required of homes conforming
to the Uniform Building Code.
A Class B manufactured home shall:
1. Have more than seven hundred fifty ( 750)
square feet of occupied space in a single,
double, expando or multi - section unit ( in-
cluding those with add - a - room units);
2. Be placed onto a permanent foundation as
required in section 26( 28)( C)( b) of this
Ordinance;
3. Have wheels, axles and hitch mechanisms
removed;
4. Have utilities connected in accordance
with manufacturer' s specifications and Oregon
Department of Commerce requirements;
5. Bear an insignia of compliance with the
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety
Standard Code as of June 15, 1976;
6. Have composition, shake, shingle or tile
roofing materials and a minimum pitch of
2/ 12;
7. Have non - reflective siding materials and
trim typical of new conventional built homes
within the community;
8. Have a carport or garage of like mate-
rials and color;
9. Be in good repair and free of structural,
electrical, mechanical and plumbing defects,
any of which must be corrected prior to
placement.
A Class C manufactured home shall:
1. Have more than three hundred and twenty
320) square feet of occupied space in a
28 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
R 11 e, ,
0095 0093
single, double, expando or multi - section unit
including those with add - a - room units);
2. Be placed onto a support system in accor-
dance with approved installation standards as
specified in Section 26( 28)( C)( b);
3. Be enclosed with foundation siding/ skirt-
ing in accordance with approved installation
standards as specified in Section
26( 28)( C)( b);
4. Have utilities connected in accordance
with manufacturer' s specifications and Oregon
Department of Commerce requirements;
5. Bear an insignia of compliance with the
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety
Standards Code as of June 15, 1976;
6. Be in good repair and free of structural,
electrical, mechanical and plumbing defects,
any of which must be corrected prior to
placement.
d. A Class D manufactured home is any manufac-
tured home built prior to June 15, 1976, and under
ORS Chapter 481 is not defined as a recreation
vehicle. For purposes of determining appropriate-
ness for placement, Class D manufactured homes
shall:
1. Have more than three hundred and twenty
320) square feet of occupied space;
2. Be placed onto a support system in accor-
dance with approved installation standards as
specified in Section 26( 28)( C)( b);
3. Be enclosed with foundation siding/ skirt-
ing in accordance with approved installation
standards as specified in Section
26 ( 28) ( C) ( b) ;
4. Have utilities connected in accordance
with manufacturer' s specifications and Oregon
Department of Commerce requirements;
5. Be in good repair and free of structural,
electrical, mechanical and plumbing defects,
any of which must be corrected prior to
placement.
29 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
C. Manufactured Home Placement Standards. All manu-
factured homes placed within the Bend Urban Area after
the effective date of this Ordinance shall comply with
the following:
a. As defined in Section ( 28)( B), each manufac-
tured home shall be classified as Class A, B, C or
D, and shall be permitted within the following
areas:
1. Class A - Permitted in manufactured home
subdivisions in the RS zone and in manufac-
tured home parks, and as replacements to
existing nonconforming manufactured homes.
2. Class B - Permitted in manufactured home
subdivisions approved as a conditional use in
the RS zone and manufactured home parks, also
permitted as replacements for existing non-
conforming manufactured homes which would be
classified as Class B, C or D.
3. Class C - Permitted in all manufactured
home parks. Also allowed as replacements for
existing nonconforming manufactured homes in
a manufactured home subdivision or park for
units which would be classified as Class C or
D and as replacements to any other Class D
unit.
4. Class D - Permitted only in manufactured
home parks.
b. Foundations/ Skirting Support Systems.
1. All load bearing foundations, supports
and enclosures shall be installed in confor-
mance with the Oregon Department of Commerce
regulations and with the manufacturer' s
installation specifications ( reference OAR
Chapter 814, Division 23). Where required,
all perimeter foundations shall be con-
structed in accordance with the " Oregon State
Structural Specialty Code".
2. All Class A and Class B manufactured
homes outside of manufactured home parks
shall be set onto an excavated area with
perimeter foundation, and the excavated area
shall be backfilled.
30 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
995 9095
3. Class A and B manufactured homes located
in manufactured home parks and Class C and D
manufactured homes must have perimeter found-
ations as specified above or be installed
with an approved foundation siding/ skirting
enclosing the entire perimeter of the home.
Foundation siding/ skirting and backup framing
shall be weather- resistent, non- combustible
or self - extinguishing materials which blend
with the exterior siding of the home. Mate-
rials below - grade level and for a minimum
distance of six ( 6) inches above finish grade
shall be resistant to decay or oxidation.
The siding shall be installed in accordance
with manufacturer' s recommendation or approv-
ed equal standards.
c. Except for a structure which conforms to the
state definition of a mobile home accessory struc-
ture, no other extension shall be attached to a
manufacture home, except a garage or carport
constructed to the Oregon State Structural Spe-
cialty Code.
d. All manufactured home lots and spaces shall be
provided with storm drainage, sanitary sewer,
electric, telephone and potable water utility
services with easements dedicated where necessary
to provide such services. All such utilities
shall be located underground unless waived by the
Planning Director where underground service would
require an exception to local prevalent condi-
tions.
e. Manufactured homes shall not be used for
living purposes unless connected to local water,
sewers and electrical systems.
D. Manufactured Home Subdivisions.
a. Minimum Area Required. A manufactured home
subdivision shall consist of a minimum area of
five acres. Manufactured home subdivisions for
Class B manufactured homes or manufactured home
subdivisions or expansions thereof less than five
acres in size may be considered by conditional use
permit application.
b. Lot Size and Dimension Requirements. The
minimum lot area and dimensions within a manufac-
tured home subdivision shall be the same as that
allowed within the zone.
31 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
0095 0096
c. Permitted Uses. Manufactured home subdivi-
sions may contain manufactured homes and related
accessory structures.
d. Setbacks. Setbacks for manufactured homes,
modular homes and accessory structures shall be
the same as provided in the zone, except that no
manufactured home shall be located within 15 feet
of another manufactured home.
E. Manufactured Home Parks.
a. Minimum Area Required. All manufactured home
parks shall consist of a minimum area of five
acres.
b. Density. The maximum number of manufactured
homes allowed within a manufactured home park
shall not exceed 10 units per acre. The average
area of a mobile home site shall not be less than
4, 000 square feet, excluding roadway, recreation
areas and other accessory facilities. No manufac-
tured home site shall be less than 2, 000 square
feet in area.
c. Access. Manufactured home park accesses shall
be located on public streets improved to a minimum
width of 36 feet and which are improved to a point
intersecting a collector or arterial street.
d. Permitted Use. Manufactured home parks may
contain manufactured homes and accessory struc-
tures permitted in Section 28, community laundry
and recreation facilities and other common build-
ings for use by park residents only, and one
residence which may be other than a manufactured
home for the use of a caretaker or a manager
responsible for maintaining or operating the
property.
e. Minimum Site Requirements.
1. Park Streets. The minimum surfaced width
of the roadway within an accessway shall be
24 feet if there is no parking allowed and 30
feet if parking is allowed on both sides.
The first 50 feet of the accessway, measured
from the public street, shall be surfaced to
a minimum width of 30 feet and shall be con-
nected to the existing public street
according to plans approved by the County
Public Works Department.
32 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
0095 0097
2. Improvement Standards. The improvement
of driveways, walkways, streets, drainage and
other utilities shall conform to adopted
state standards for such or shall conform to
the County' s standard specifications manual,
whichever is more restrictive."
Section 37. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 26, " Provisions Applying to
Special Use Standards," subsection ( 16), " Nursery Schools and
Kindergartens and Day Care Facilities," is amended to read as
follows:
1116. Day Care Facility. Day care facilities shall
have a minimum site size of 5, 000 square feet and shall
provide and thereafter maintain outdoor play areas with
a minimum area of 100 square feet per child of total
capacity. All outside play shall be enclosed by a
fence of at least four feet but not more than six feet
in height. Day care facilities and nursery schools
shall provide adequate off- street parking and loading
spaces and may be required to provide a driveway de-
signed for continuous forward flow of passenger vehic-
les for the purposes of loading and unloading."
Section 38. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 27, " Interpretations and Excep-
tions," subsection 2, " Accessory Structures and Uses," is amended
to read as follows:
112. Accessory Uses and Structures.
A. A greenhouse or hothouse may be maintained acces-
sory to a dwelling provided there are no sales.
B. A guest house may be maintained accessory to a
dwelling provided there are no cooking facilities.
C. An accessory building shall not be located within
10 feet of a principal dwelling existing or under con-
struction on the same lot.
D. Site - obscuring fences may be located in a required
front yard or in a vision clearance area provided that
they shall not exceed 2 1/ 2 feet in height measured
from the top of the curb.
E. Solar panels, collectors or other similar solar
devices may be maintained as accessory structures."
33 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
Section 39. Ordinance No.
Ordinance, as amended, Section
amended to read as follows:
PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
28, " Nonconforming Uses," is
1128. Nonconforming Uses. Except as otherwise
provided in this Ordinance, the lawful use of a build-
ing, structure or land existing on the effective date
of this Ordinance, or any amendment thereto, may be
continued although such use does not conform with this
Ordinance. Such nonconforming use may be altered,
restored or replace in accordance with this section.
No nonconforming use may be resumed after a period of
interruption or abandonment unless the resumed use
conforms with the provisions of this Ordinance in
effect at the time of the proposed resumption.
1. Verification of Nonconforming Use. Verification
of the existence of a nonconforming use shall be re-
quired prior to or concurrently with any application to
alter or restore the use. The burden shall be upon the
applicant for alteration or restoration of a noncon-
forming use to demonstrate its lawful existence. The
applicant shall demonstrate all of the following:
a. The nonconforming use was lawful on the effec-
tive date of the provisions of this Ordinance
prohibiting the use.
b. The nonconforming use was actually in exis-
tence on the effective date of the provisions of
this Ordinance prohibiting its use, or had pro-
ceeded so far toward completion that a right to
complete and maintain the use would be deemed to
have vested.
c. The nonconforming use has existed contin-
uously, or if it has not existed continuously, has
not been abandoned, or has not been interrupted
for a period in excess of one ( 1) year.
The decision verifying the nonconforming use shall be
made by the Planning Director and shall be appealable
pursuant to the provisions of the county land use
procedures ordinance.
2. Maintenance of Nonconforming Use. Normal mainte-
nance of a verified nonconforming use shall be per-
mitted provided that no alterations in the use or
structure are made which change the size or outward
appearance of the nonconforming use.
34 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
0005 0009
3. Restoration or Replacement of Nonconforming Use. A
verified nonconforming use may be restored or replaced
if all of the following criteria are met:
a. The nonconforming use has been damaged or destroyed
by fire or other casualty or natural disaster.
b. The nonconforming use is restored or replaced
on the same location as it existed prior to damage
or destruction.
c. The restoration or replacement of the noncon-
forming use is commenced within one ( 1) year of
the damage or destruction.
4. Alteration of a Nonconforming Use.
a. The alteration of a nonconforming use shall be
permitted when necessary to comply with any lawful
requirement.
b. In all cases other than that described in
paragraph ( a) above, alteration of a nonconforming
use or structure or physical improvements shall be
permitted when all of the following criteria are
met:
1. The alteration in is necessary to reason-
ably continue the nonconforming use.
2. The alteration will have no greater
adverse impact upon the neighborhood.
c.
Any alteration to a nonconforming use per-
mitted under this section also shall be subject to
all applicable provisions of this Ordinance,
including site plan review under Section 24."
Section 40. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 29, " Conditional Use Permits," is
amended to read as follows:
Section 29. CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
111. Purpose. In certain zones, conditional uses may
be permitted subject to the granting of a conditional
use permit. Because of their unusual characteristics
or the special characteristics of the area in which
they are to be located, conditional uses require spe-
cial consideration so that they may be properly located
with respect to the objectives of this Ordinance and
35 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
0095 0 u"
the effect of the conditional use on surrounding prop-
erties.
112. The Planning Director or Hearings Body shall have
the authority to approve, approve with conditions,
disapprove or revoke conditional use permits subject to
the provisions of this section.
113. General Conditional Use Criteria. A conditional
use permit may be granted only upon findings by the
Planning Director or Hearings Body that the proposal
meets all of the criteria in this section, as well as
all other applicable criteria contained in this Ordi-
nance. The general criteria are:
A. That the location, size, design and operating
characteristics of the proposed use are such that
it will have minimal adverse impact on the prop-
erty value, livability and permissible development
of the surrounding area. Consideration shall be
given to compatibility in terms of scale, coverage
and density with the alteration of traffic pat-
terns and the capacity of surrounding streets and
to any other relevant impact of the proposed use.
B. That the site planning of the proposed use
will, as far as reasonably possible, provide an
aesthetically pleasing and functional environment
to the highest degree consistent with the nature
of the use and the given setting.
C. That if the use is permitted outright in
another zone, there is substantial reason for
locating the use in an area where it is only
conditionally allowed, as opposed to an area where
it is permitted outright.
D. That the proposed use will be consistent with
the purposes of this Ordinance, the Comprehensive
Plan, Statewide Goals and any other applicable
statutes, ordinances or policies.
114. Application. A request for a conditional use may
be initiated by a property owner or his authorized
agent by filing an application with the Planning
Director. The application shall be accompanied by a
site plan, drawn to scale, showing the dimensions and
arrangement of the proposed development. The Planning
Director or Hearings Body may request other drawings or
material essential to an understanding of the proposed
use and its relationship to the surrounding properties.
36 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
0095 0101
115. Review of Application. Before a conditional use
is permitted, the conditional use shall be reviewed as
a land use permit consistent with the procedures estab-
lished by the County land use procedures ordinance.
116. Action on an Application. The Planning Director
or Hearings Body may approve, approve with conditions
or disapprove the application for a conditional use
permit subject to the land use procedures ordinance.
In permitting a conditional use, the Planning Director
or Hearings Body may impose, in addition to regulations
and standards expressly specified in this Ordinance,
other conditions found necessary to protect the best
interests of the surrounding property or neighborhood
or the urban area as a whole. Any future enlargement
or alteration of the use shall be reviewed by the
County and new conditions may be imposed.
A. In order to grant any conditional use, the
Planning Director or Hearings Body must find that
the establishment, maintenance or operation of the
use applied for will not, under the circumstances
of the particular case, be detrimental to the
health, safety or general welfare of persons
residing or working in the neighborhood of such
proposed use, or be detrimental or injurious to
the property and improvements in the neighborhood
or to the general welfare of the urban area.
B. A conditional use permit shall become void one
year after approval, or after such greater or
lesser time as may be specified as a condition of
approval, unless within that time the required
building construction, alteration or enlargement
has been commenced and diligently pursued or, if
no such construction, alteration or enlargement is
required, unless the permitted activity is being
regularly conducted in the premises. Upon re-
quest, the Planning Director or Hearings Body may
extend the permit for a period of one year.
117. Special Requirements. The request for a building
to exceed 45 feet in height shall be considered in
light of the Fire Department' s fire fighting apparatus
and the location of that apparatus. The community
should have adequate apparatus before taller structures
are allowed."
Section 41. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 30, " Planned Unit Development
Approval," is amended to read as follows:
37 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
0095 0. 02
Section 30. PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL.
111. Hearings Body - Approval Required. Where use is
made of the planned unit development process as pro-
vided in this section, no building or other permit
shall be issued for such development or part thereof
until the Hearings Body or Planning Director has ap-
proved said development.
112. Application. The owner or authorized agent may
file an application for planned unit development appro-
val with the Hearings Body or Planning Director. The
application shall be accompanied by a filing fee in an
amount established by the County Commission.
113. Minimum Size for Planned Unit Developments. No
application shall be accepted for an area of less than
10 acres in any R zone, or for an area of less than 4
acres in any other zone.
114. Limitation on Application. No application shall
be accepted for a use which will require a change of
zone unless accompanied by an application for a zoning
amendment as set forth in Section 33.
115. Plan Required. All applications shall be accom-
panied by a general development plan drawn to scale
showing the use or uses, dimensions and locations of
proposed structures and of areas to be reserved for
vehicular and pedestrian circulation, parking, public
uses, landscaping and other open spaces and drawings
and sketches demonstrating the design and character of
the proposed uses and the physical relationships of the
uses. Such other pertinent information shall be in-
cluded as may be considered necessary by the Hearings
Body or Planning Director to make a determination that
the contemplated arrangement or use makes it necessary
and desireable to apply regulations and requirements
differing from those ordinarily applicable under this
Ordinance and the Subdivision Ordinance.
116. Standards for Approval. In granting approval for
planned unit development, the Hearings Body or Planning
Director shall be guided by the following:
A. Whether applicant has, through investigation,
planning and programming, demonstrated the sound-
ness of his proposal and his ability to carry out
the project as proposed, and whether the construc-
tion shall begin within six months of the conclu-
sion of any necessary action by the County, or
38 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
CS a': 7e3'
within such longer period of time as may be estab-
lished by the Hearings Body or Planning Director.
B. Whether the proposal conforms with the general
plans of the County in terms of location and
general development standards.
C. Whether the project will accrue benefits to
the County and the general public in terms of
need, convenience, service and appearance suffi-
cient to justify any necessary exceptions to the
regulations of the Zoning and Subdivision Ordi-
nance.
D. Whether the project will satisfactorily take
care of the traffic it generates by means of
adequate off- street parking, access points and
additional street right- of- way and improvements
and any other traffic facilities required.
E. Whether the project will be compatible with
adjacent developments and will not adversely
affect the character of the area.
F. Whether the project will satisfactorily take
care of sewer and water needs consistent with the
Bend Urban Area General Plan.
G. A planned unit development shall not be ap-
proved in any R zone if the housing density of the
proposed development will result in an intensity
of land use greater than permitted by the Compre-
hensive Plan.
117. Standards and Requirements. Approval of a request
for a planned unit development is dependent upon the
submission of an acceptable plan and satisfactory
assurance that it will be carried out. The following
minimum standards and requirements shall apply:
A. A dwelling use permitted in any zone may be
permitted in a planned unit development.
B. A mobile home may be permitted in a planned
unit development. However, mobile home parks
shall not be allowed in any commercial or indus-
trial zone.
C. Developments which either provide for or
contemplate private streets and ways and common
areas which will be or are proposed to be main-
tained by the owners of units or lots within a
39 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
0095 0104
development must organize and maintain an owners'
association. The owners' association shall con-
sist of all the owners of units or lots within the
development and membership in the association must
be required of all owners; adopt and record bylaws
as provided by ORS 91. 555; adopt bylaws that
contain the provisions required by ORS 91. 560; and
have the power to create a lien upon the unit or
lot for services, labor or material lawfully
chargeable as common expenses as provided in ORS
91. 580. The association' s power to create such a
lien shall exist whether or not the property is
subject to the Oregon Unit Ownership Law ( ORS
91. 505 - 91. 675.)
D. If the property is not subject to the Unit
Ownership Law, the association shall also create,
by contract, the right to claim a lien upon any
unit or lot for services, labor or material
chargeable as common expenses. This lien may be
created by covenants between the association and
the property owners and shall supplement the lien
created by ( C) above and require all owners of
units or lots within the development to consent to
and pay the reasonable value of services, labor or
material expended by the County for common ex-
penses where such County expenditures are made
because the owners or the owners' association does
not provide the necessary services, labor or
material for common expenses.
E. Streets and roads in planned unit development
designated developments shall be public roads and
ways developed to County standards or be private
roads of a minimum 14 feet wide paved surface for
one- way traffic, minimum 20 feet wide paved sur-
face for two- way traffic, and parallel parking as
permitted shall require minimum additional 8 feet
of width for each side of parking. In addition to
these requirements, the Planning Director or
Hearings Body may specify other requirements
including, but not limited to, increased or de-
creased pavement width.
F. Pedestrian walkways shall be provided for
adequate pedestrian and bicycle traffic and shall
be constructed with Portland cement or asphaltic
concrete to County standards, except as varied by
the provisions of this section or by the Planning
Director or Hearings Body.
40 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
0005 0105
G. All utility facilities shall be installed
underground and in accordance with County stan-
dards.
H. The design of all planned unit development
projects shall provide direct access for all units
and lots to open space areas and facilities.
I. A statement must be submitted relative to the
solar access to be provided by the planned unit
development.
8. Hearings Body Action. In taking action, the
Planning Director or Hearings Body may approve, approve
with conditions or deny an application as submitted.
Any planned unit development as authorized shall be
subject to all conditions imposed and shall be excepted
from other provisions of this Ordinance only to the
extent specified in said authorization. Any approval
of a planned unit development granted hereunder shall
lapse and become void unless within 12 months after the
final granting of approval or within such other period
of time as may be stipulated by the Hearings Body or
Planning Director as a condition of such approval,
construction of the buildings or structure involved in
the development has begun and been diligently pursued.
The Planning Director or Hearings Body may further
impose other conditions limiting the time within which
the development of portions thereof must be completed.
The decision of the Planning Director or Hearings Body
shall be final unless appealed in accordance with the
procedures set forth in the land use procedures ordi-
nance.
119. Violation of Conditions. The Planning Director or
Hearings Body on its own motion may revoke any planned
unit development approval for non- compliance with the
conditions set forth in the order granting the said
approval, after first holding a public hearing and
giving notice of such hearing as provided in the land
use procedures ordinance. The foregoing shall not be
the exclusive remedy, and it shall be unlawful and an
offense punishable hereunder for any person to con-
struct any improvement in violation of any condition
imposed by the order granting the planned unit develop-
ment approval."
Section 42. Ordinance No.
Ordinance, as amended, Section
read as follows:
41 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
31, " Variances," is amended to
0095 0106
Section 31. VARIANCES.
111. Authorization to Grant or Deny Variances. Except
as provided in subsection ( 3), the Planning Director or
Hearings Body may authorize variances from the stan-
dards of this Ordinance where it can be shown that,
owing to special and unusual circumstances related to a
specific piece of property, the literal interpretation
of this Ordinance would cause an undue or unnecessary
hardship; except that no variance shall be granted to
allow the use of the property for purposes not autho-
rized within the pertinent zone or to alter any proce-
dural requirements of this Ordinance. In granting a
variance, the Planning Director or Hearings Body may
attach conditions necessary to protect the best inter-
est of the surrounding property or neighborhood and to
otherwise achieve the purposes of this Ordinance.
112. Criteria. No variance shall be granted pursuant
to the provisions of subsection ( 1) unless the appli-
cant can establish:
A. That special conditions exist which are pecu-
liar to the land, structure or building involved
and which are not applicable to other lands,
buildings or structures in the same zone; and
B. That strict interpretation of the provisions
of this Ordinance would deprive the applicant of
rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the
same zone under the terms of this Ordinance; and
C. That the special conditions and circumstances
do not result from the actions of the applicant
and such conditions and circumstances do not
merely constitute pecuniary hardship or inconve-
nience; and
D. That granting the variance will be in harmony
with the objectives of this Ordinance and not
injurious to the neighborhood or otherwise detri-
mental to the public welfare.
113. Authorization to Grant or Deny Variances to On -
Site Requirements. The Planning Director or Hearings
Body may authorize a variance from the standards of
this Ordinance relating to on- site requirements ( e. g.
yards, parking, etc.), provided that no variance under
this section shall be greater than 25% of the setback,
parking or other similar area requirement from which
the variance is sought.
42 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
0095 0107
114. Criteria for Variances Granted Under Subsection
M-
A. In the case of a yard variance, the applicant
shall show the approval will result in:
a. More efficient use of the site; and
b. Preservation of natural features, where
appropriate; and
c. Adequate provisions of light and privacy
to adjoining properties; and
d. Preservation of natural features of the
site ( topography, vegetation and drainage)
which would be adversely affected by applica-
tion of required parking standards, where
appropriate.
115. Application for a Variance. A property owner may
initiate a request for a variance by filing an applica-
tion with the Planning Director. The application shall
be accompanied by a plan, drawn to a suitable scale,
showing the condition to be varied and the dimensions
and arrangement of the proposed development. The
application shall be reviewed in the manner provided
for in the County' s land use procedures ordinance."
Section 43. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 32, " Revocation of Permits or
Variances," is amended to read as follows:
Section 32. REVOCATION OF PERMITS OR VARIANCES.
111. Revocation for Non - Compliance With Conditions.
Any planned unit development permit, conditional use
permit or variance granted in accordance with the terms
of this Ordinance may be revoked if any of the condi-
tions or terms of such permit or variance are violated,
or if any law or ordinance is violated in connection
therewith. If, after notice and hearing, a planned
unit development permit is revoked for a substantial
violation of any of its conditions, the Board of County
Commissioners may reconsider any zone change granted in
connection with the planned unit development and
restore the zoning existing prior to the permit
notwithstanding improvements constructed prior to such
revocations, but any such proposed change of zone shall
follow the procedures otherwise specified for zone
changes herein.
43 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
112. Public Hearing. The Planning Director or Hearings
Body shall hold a public hearing on any proposed revo-
cation after giving written notice to the permittee and
to other owners of property as set forth in the land
use procedures ordinance. The Planning Director or
Hearings Body shall render its decision within 45 days
after the conclusion of the hearing. If the permittee
is not satisfied with the action of the Commission, the
permittee may appeal the Planning Director' s or Hear-
ings Body' s decision to the Board of County Commis-
sioners in the manner provided in this section and the
land use procedures ordinance."
Section 44. Ordinance No. PL - 11, Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance, as amended, Section 33, " Amendments," subsection ( 3),
Standards for Zone Change," is amended to read as follows:
113. Standards for Zone Chancre. The burden of proof is
upon the one seeking change. The degree of that burden
increases proportionately with the degree of impact of
the change which is sought. The applicant shall in all
cases establish:
A. That the change conforms with the Comprehen-
sive Plan. Specifically, the change is consistent
with the plan' s intent to promote an orderly
pattern and sequence of growth.
B. That the change will not interfere with exist-
ing development, development potential or value of
other land in the vicinity of the proposed action.
C. That the change in classification for the
subject property is consistent with the purpose
and intent of the proposed zone classification.
D. That the change will result in the orderly and
efficient extension or provision of public ser-
vices. Also, that the change is consistent with
the County' s policy for provision of public facil-
ities.
E. That there is proof of a change of circum-
stance or a mistake in the original zoning."
Section 45. In support of the Amendments contained in sec-
tions 1 through 44 of this Ordinance, the Board of County Commis-
sioners adopts as its findings and conclusions the documents
entitled " Deschutes County Periodic Review Order for the Bend
Urban Growth Boundary," " Deschutes County Periodic Review Order
for the Sisters Urban Growth Boundary" and " Deschutes County
Periodic Review Order for the Redmond Urban Growth Boundary,"
44 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
0005 0 . 09
attached hereto as Exhibits " A," " B" and " C," respectively, and
incorporates by this reference as if fully set forth herein.
Section 46. This Ordinance being necessary for the imme-
diate preservation of the public peace, health and safety, an
emergency is declared to exist, and this Ordinance takes effect
on its passage.
DATED this 1?( 4
day of 988.
DESCHUTES COUNTY BOARD
OF. 60UNZY COMMISSIONERS
PRANTE, Commissioner
A E9T: M OOP, issioner
L-1
ecording Secretary D MA LI , thkirman
45 - ORDINANCE NO. 88- 042
0005 Clio
EXHIBIT " A"
DESCHUTES COUNTY PERIODIC REVIEW ORDER
FOR THE BEND URBAN GROWTH BOUNDARY
I. Introduction. In Deschutes County, the cities have taken
the lead in the review of ORS 197. 640 for periodic review.
The City of Bend Periodic Review Order is being adopted by
Deschutes County based upon the findings contained in the
City document entitled " The City of Bend Periodic Review
Order."
II. Background Information.
A. Since the acknowledgment of the Bend Area General Plan
by LCDC on June 25, 1981, the following amendments have
been made by the County:
1. The adoption of the Bend Urban Area General Plan
Ordinance No. 80- 216 ( 12/ 18/ 80).
2. An ordinance adopting PL - 11, the Bend Urban Area
Zoning Ordinance, Ordinance No. 80- 217 ( 12/ 18/ 80).
3. An Ordinance Creating a joint Bend Urban Area
Planning Commission, Ordinance No. 80- 226
12/ 18/ 80).
4. An ordinance amending PL - 11 to provide for plant
nurseries as a conditional use in residential
zones, Ordinance No. 81- 006 ( 3/ 12/ 81).
5. The Deschutes County Sign Ordinance, Ordinance
No. 81- 009 ( 4/ 8/ 81).
6. An ordinance replacing the Phase II Sewer Boundary
for the Bend Urban Area, Ordinance No. 81- 019
5/ 9/ 81).
7. An ordinance adopting the Deschutes County Sub-
division/ Partition ordinance, Ordinance No. 81- 043
12/ 31/ 81).
8. An ordinance amending PL - 10, the Bend Urban
General Plan, to redesignate certain property
within the Urban Growth Boundary, Ordinance
No. 81- 004 ( 12/ 3/ 81).
9. An ordinance amending PL - 11, to rezone certain
properties within the Bend Urban Growth Boundary,
Ordinance No. 81- 045 ( 4/ 6/ 81).
1 - EXHIBIT " A"
9095 0111
10. Ordinance No. 82- 009, an ordinance amending PL - 11
2/ 17/ 82) .
11. Ordinance No. 82- 011, the Deschutes County Proced-
ural Ordinance ( 8/ 3/ 82).
12. An ordinance amending PL - 11, rezoning certain
properties zoned RS to CH ( 4/ 21/ 82).
13. An ordinance amending PL - 11, rezoning certain
property from RL to CH, Ordinance No. 82- 020
4/ 21/ 82).
14. An ordinance amending PL - 11, rezoning certain
property from RL to CH, Ordinance No. 82- 025
6/ 8/ 82).
15. An ordinance amending the north corridor section
of the Comprehensive Plan, Ordinance No. 82- 019
7/ 7/ 82).
16. An ordinance amending PL - 11 by adding Destination
Resorts as a conditional use, Ordinance No. 82- 038
9/ 15/ 82) .
17. An ordinance amending PL - 10, the Bend Urban Area
Comprehensive Plan, by adding Destination Resorts,
Ordinance No. 82- 019 ( 9/ 15/ 82).
18. An ordinance amending PL - 11 regarding location of
churches, Ordinance No. 82- 044 ( 11/ 9/ 82).
19. An ordinance amending PL - 11 changing certain
property from UAR- 10 to Highway Commercial and
Highway Commercial to UAR- 10, Ordinance No. 83- 024
3/ 3/ 83).
20. An ordinance amending PL - 11 to provide certain
remedies for zoning infractions, Ordinance
No. 83- 032 ( 3/ 23/ 83).
21. An ordinance amending Ordinance 82- 011, the County
Uniform Procedures Ordinance, by providing for
Solar Access Procedures, Ordinance No. 83- 038
6/ l/ 83).
22. An ordinance amending Ordinance No. 81- 043, the
Deschutes County Subdivision/ Partition Ordinance
to provide Solar Access performance standards,
Ordinance No. 83- 039 ( 6/ 1/ 83).
2 - EXHIBIT " A"
0095 0112
23. An ordinance amending PL - 11 to provide for build-
ing setback and solar access protection, Ordinance
No. 83- 041 ( 6/ 1/ 83).
24. An ordinance amending the General Plan redesigna-
ting Murphy Road from a local street to a
collector and redesignating Woodside Court to a
local street, Ordinance No. 83- 042 ( 4/ 20/ 83).
25. An ordinance adding the definitions for Time Share
Units as a conditional use in PL - 11, Ordinance
No. 83- 045 ( 6/ 15/ 83).
26. An ordinance amending the County Land Use Proce-
dures Ordinance, deleting the Planning Commission
from the quasi- judicial hearings body order,
Ordinance No. 83- 051 ( 6/ 15/ 83).
27. An ordinance amending Ordinance No. 80- 226,
creating a joint Bend Urban Area Planning Commis-
sion, Ordinance No. 84- 006 ( 4/ 4/ 84).
28. An ordinance amending the road or street minimum
design standards of Ordinance 81- 043, the
Deschutes County Subdivision/ Partition Ordinance,
Ordinance No. 85- 024 ( 8/ 14/ 85).
29. An ordinance amending the Bend Area General Plan
adopting a transportation circulation element and
adopting a bike plan map, Ordinance No. 85- 025
8/ 14/ 85).
30. An ordinance to amend PL - 11, the Bend Urban Area
zoning Ordinance, to regulate hydroelectric
facilities, Ordinance No. 86- 017 ( 6/ 30/ 86).
31. An ordinance amending the Bend Area General Plan
by establishing Goals and Policies relating to the
Deschutes River Corridor, Ordinance No. 86- 020
6/ 30/ 86).
32. An ordinance amending PL - 11, the Bend Urban Area
Zoning Ordinance, to revise references to the
Procedures Ordinance, Ordinance No. 86- 033
4/ 2/ 86).
33. An ordinance amending PL - 11 to modify penalty
provision for ordinance infractions, Ordinance
No. 86- 034 ( 4/ 2/ 86).
34. An ordinance amending PL - 11 to require certain
restrictions and conditions of approval for land
3 - EXHIBIT "
All
0095 0113
use actions on property adjacent to the Deschutes
River, Ordinance No. 86- 055 ( 6/ 30/ 86).
35. An ordinance amending Ordinance No. PL - 11 to
regulate fill and removal along the Deschutes
River, Ordinance No. 86- 058 ( 6/ 30/ 86).
36. An ordinance amending PL - 11 to rezone certain
property from Urban Standard Residential to Urban
Medium Residential, Ordinance No. 86- 065
6/ 18/ 86) .
37. An ordinance establishing procedures for county
ordinance infractions, Ordinance No. 86- 076
12/ 3/ 86).
38. An ordinance amending the Bend Urban Area General
Plan to change the designation of certain property
from residential to neighborhood commercial,
Ordinance No. 87- 002 ( 5/ 13/ 87).
39. An ordinance amending Ordinance No. 82- 011,
providing uniform land use procedures, Ordinance
No. 87- 008 ( 5/ 13/ 87).
40. An ordinance amending the Bend Area General Plan
to change the designation of certain property from
Urban Standard Residential to Highway Commercial,
Ordinance No. 87- 009 ( 3/ 11/ 87).
41. An ordinance amending the Bend Area Zoning Ordi-
nance to rezone certain property from Standard
Residential to Highway Commercial, Ordinance
No. 87- 010 ( 3/ 11/ 87)
42. An ordinance amending PL - 11, the Bend Urban Area
Zoning Ordinance to rezone certain property from
Standard Residential to Neighborhood Commercial,
Ordinance No. 87- 012 ( 4/ 22/ 87).
43. An ordinance amending PL - 11 to allow reduced
setbacks for garages in the RL and RS zones,
Ordinance No. 87- 030 ( 10/ 14/ 87).
44. An ordinance amending PL - 11 to allow certain
automobile service stations within 1500 feet of
each other, Ordinance No. 87- 031 ( 9/ 29/ 87).
45. An ordinance amending Chapter 2. 28 of the
Deschutes County Code, establishing specific
provisions relating to the Historic Preservation
Ordinance, Ordinance No. 88- 008 ( 8/ 10/ 88).
4 - EXHIBIT " A"
00' 45 0114
46. An ordinance amending Ordinance No. 81- 043, the
Deschutes County Subdivision/ Partition Ordinance
relating to standards for streets and roads,
Ordinance No. 88- 015 ( 5/ 18/ 88).
47. An ordinance amending PL - 11 rezoning certain
property from Urban Standard Residential to Urban
Medium Density Residential, Ordinance No. 88- 016
4/ 13/ 88) .
48. An ordinance amending the Sidewalk Requirements of
Ordinance No 81- 043, the Deschutes County Sub-
division/ Partition Ordinance, Ordinance No. 88- 033
10/ 5/ 88).
B. The county ordinance amendments and changes cited above
reflect all changes which Deschutes County has made to
land use regulations within the Bend Urban Area.
C. In addition to the ordinance amendments cited above,
the county reviewed the city' s zoning ordinance ( ORS NS
1178) and adopted all ordinance amendments proposed by
the city for the Periodic Review Order. ( See Ordinance
No. 88- 042.)
III. The Periodic Review Findings and Conclusions.
A. The specific findings of the City of Bend Periodic
Review Order are the same for the City of Bend as for
the urban area of the county.
B. The county participated with the city in the Periodic
Review Order of the City of Bend. The Urban Area
Advisory Committee and Urban Area Planning Commission
are joint county/ city commissions.
C. The City of Bend has taken the lead in the urban area
periodic review. The Urban Area Planning Commission is
a joint county/ city commission. The Board of County
Commissioners accepts the recommendations of the Urban
Area Planning Commission and adopts the city' s findings
contained in the City of Bend Period Review Order.
D. Deschutes County has amended the Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance to include changes consistent with the City
of Bend amendments for periodic review. In addition,
the county has revised the Bend Urban Area Zoning
Ordinance to include numerous other changes, not
subject to the Periodic Review Order to make the city
and county ordinances consistent. There are two
exception which the county took to the city' s ordi-
nances. These include:
5 - EXHIBIT " A"
0095 01i5
1. Section 28, PL - 11, involving nonconforming uses.
The County is amending PL - 11 to include noncon-
forming use language which reflects the require-
ments of ORS 215. 130. The county has made this
change in order to make the nonconforming use
section consistent with the Oregon Revised Statues
for counties.
2. Section 26, PL - 11, Bed and Breakfast. The county
finds that the requirement for annual review of a
bed and breakfast for at least the first three
years after issuance of the permit, with the
possibility of revoking the permit, is inappro-
priate because it does not adequately describe the
specific criteria for determining whether to
revoke the permit. The county has proposed other
language which allows regulation of the bed and
breakfast and specifies what standards are to be
considered in reviewing the use.
6 - EXHIBIT " A"
Y
0®95 0116
EXHIBIT " B"
DESCHUTES COUNTY PERIODIC REVIEW ORDER
FOR THE SISTERS URBAN GROWTH BOUNDARY
I. Introduction. In Deschutes County the cities have taken the
lead in the review of ORS 197. 640 for periodic review. The
City of Sisters Periodic Review Order is being adopted by
Deschutes County based upon the findings contained in the
city document entitled " City of Sisters Periodic Review
Order."
II. Background Information.
A. The county has adopted the following Comprehensive Plan
and Land Use regulations within the Sisters Urban
Growth Boundary.
1. An ordinance amending PL - 16, the Sisters Urban
Area Comprehensive Plan, Ordinance No. 80- 224
2/ 10/ 81) .
2. An ordinance amending PL - 17, the Sisters Urban
Growth Boundary Zoning Ordinance, Ordinance
No. 80- 225 ( 1/ 22/ 81).
3. The Deschutes County Sign Ordinance, Ordinance
No. 81- 009 ( 4/ 5/ 81).
4. An ordinance amending the Sisters Urban Growth
Boundary Zoning Map and Zoning Ordinance, Ordi-
nance No. 81- 038 ( 6/ 1/ 81).
5. An ordinance amending PL - 16, the Sisters Urban
Area Comprehensive Plan Map, Ordinance No. 81- 039
6/ l/ 81).
6. An ordinance adopting the Deschutes County Sub-
division/ Partition Ordinance, Ordinance No. 81- 043
12/ 31/ 81).
7. An ordinance amending PL - 17, the Sisters Urban
Growth Boundary Zoning Ordinance, rezoning certain
property from Urban Area Reserve ( UAR- 10) to Urban
Area Reserve ( UAR- 2 1/ 2), Ordinance No. 81- 005
12/ 20/ 81).
8. An ordinance establishing uniform land use proce-
dures in Deschutes County, Ordinance No. 82- 011
8/ 3/ 82).
1 - EXHIBIT " B"
0095 0117
9. An ordinance amending PL - 16, the Sisters Urban
Area Comprehensive Plan, to expand the Sisters
Urban Area Growth Boundary to include an addition-
al 40 acres of land, Ordinance No. 83- 047
5/ 4/ 83).
10. An ordinance amending PL - 17, the Sisters Urban
Area Zoning Ordinance, to rezone certain property
from F- 3 to UAR- 10, Ordinance No. 83- 048 ( 5/ 4/ 83)
11. An ordinance amending the road and street minimum
design standards of Ordinance No. 81- 043, the
Deschutes County Subdivision/ Partition Ordinance,
Ordinance No. 85- 024 ( 8/ 24/ 85).
12. An ordinance amending PL - 16, the Sisters Urban
Area Comprehensive Plan, Ordinance No. 85- 029
8/ 14/ 85).
13. An ordinance amending the County Sign Ordinance,
Ordinance No. 86- 024 ( 4/ 2/ 86).
14. An ordinance amending Ordinance No. 81- 043, the
County Subdivision/ Partition Ordinance, revising
references to the Procedures Ordinance, Ordinance
No. 86- 030 ( 4/ 2/ 86).
15. An ordinance amending PL - 17, the Sisters Urban
Area Zoning Ordinance, revising reference to the
Procedures Ordinance, Ordinance No. 86- 038
4/ 2/ 86).
16. An ordinance relating to violation of county
ordinances, providing penalties for violation,
Ordinance No. 86- 076 ( 12/ 3/ 86).
17. An ordinance amending Chapter 2. 28 of the
Deschutes County Code, establishing specific
regulations relating to historic preservation,
Ordinance No. 88- 008 ( 8/ 10/ 88)
III. Periodic Review Findings and Conclusions.
A. The background information cited above includes all
ordinance amendments which effect land use in the
Sisters Urban Area. These ordinance amendments are
consistent with all changes made by the City of
Sisters. The specific findings of the Sisters Periodic
Review Order relating to all issues required for review
are, therefore, the same for the urban area of the
county as for the city.
2 - EXHIBIT " B"
EXHIBIT " C"
DESCHUTES COUNTY PERIODIC REVIEW ORDER
FOR THE REDMOND URBAN GROWTH BOUNDARY
I. Introduction. In Deschutes County, the cities have taken
the lead in the review of ORS 197. 640 for periodic review.
The City of Redmond Periodic Review Order is being adopted
by Deschutes County based upon the findings contained in the
city document entitled " The City of Redmond Proposed Local
Review."
II. Background Information.
A. The county has adopted the following Comprehensive Plan
and Land Use Regulations within the Redmond Urban
Growth Boundary:
1. The Redmond Urban Area Comprehensive Plan, Ordi-
nance No. 80- 202 ( 9/ 17/ 80).
2. The Redmond Urban Area Zoning Ordinance, Ordinance
No. 80- 201 ( 9/ 17/ 80).
3. An ordinance creating the Redmond Urban Area
Planning Commission, Ordinance No. 80- 227
12/ 18/ 80).
4. An Ordinance amending Ordinance No. 80- 201,
providing new administrative procedures for the
Urban Area Planning Commission within the Redmond
Urban Growth Boundary, Ordinance No. 80- 228
12/ 31/ 80).
5. Deschutes County Sign Ordinance ( 4/ 6/ 81).
6. The Deschutes County Subdivision/ Partition Ordi-
nance No. 81- 043 ( 12/ 31/ 81).
7. The Deschutes County Land Use Procedures Ordinance
No. 82- 011 ( 8/ 3/ 82).
8. An ordinance amending No. 82- 011, providing
uniform procedures for solar access permits,
Ordinance No. 83- 038 ( 6/ 1/ 83).
9. An ordinance amending the County subdivision/ par-
tition Ordinance No. 81- 043 to provide solar
access performance standards, Ordinance No. 83- 039
6/ l/ 83).
1 - EXHIBIT " C"
0095 0120
10. An ordinance amending the Redmond Urban Area
Zoning Ordinance No. 80- 201 providing for building
setbacks for solar access, Ordinance No. 83- 040
6/ 1/ 83).
11. An ordinance amending Ordinance No. 80- 201, the
Redmond Urban Area Zoning Ordinance, to provide
recreational parks within mobile home parks,
Ordinance No. 84- 003 ( 1/ 18/ 84).
12. An Ordinance eliminating the requirement that
appeals be heard by the Redmond Urban Area Plan-
ning Commission, amending Ordinance No. 80- 227,
Ordinance No. 84- 005 ( 4/ 4/ 84).
13. An ordinance amending Ordinance No. PL - 18, the
Redmond Urban Area Comprehensive Plan, by adopting
the Redmond Canyon Plan and Map, Ordinance
No. 84- 025 ( 8/ 29/ 84).
14. An ordinance amending Ordinance No. 80- 201, the
Redmond Urban Area Zoning Ordinance, implementing
the Redmond Canyon Plan, Ordinance No. 84- 026
8/ 29/ 84).
15. An ordinance amending the minimum design standards
for subdivisions by amending Ordinance No. 81- 043,
Ordinance No. 85- 024 ( 8/ 14/ 85).
16. An ordinance amending Ordinance No. PL - 18, the
Redmond Urban Area Comprehensive Plan, adopting a
new transportation element, Ordinance No. 85- 027
8/ 14/ 85).
17. An ordinance amending Ordinance No. PL - 18, the
Redmond Urban Area Comprehensive Plan, by adopting
an Access Management Plan, Ordinance No. 85- 035
12/ 4/ 85).
18. An ordinance amending the County Sign Ordinance
No. 81- 009, revising reference to the Procedures
Ordinance, Ordinance No. 86- 028 ( 4/ 2/ 86).
19. An ordinance amending Ordinance No. 81- 043, the
Deschutes County Subdivision/ Partition Ordinance,
to revise reference to the Procedures Ordinance,
Ordinance No. 86- 030 ( 4/ 2/ 86).
20. An ordinance amending Ordinance No. 80- 201, the
Redmond Urban Area Zoning Ordinance, revising
reference to the Procedures Ordinance, Ordinance
No. 86- 031 ( 4/ 2/ 86).
2 - EXHIBIT " C"
Vr. Or,
21. An ordinance establishing
for violations of county
No. 86- 076 ( 12/ 3/ 86).
0095 0121
infractions procedures
ordinances, Ordinance
22. An ordinance amending Ordinance o. 82- 011, provid-
ing new procedures for land use actions, Ordinance
No. 88- 005 ( 5/ 18/ 88).
23. An ordinance amending Chapter 2. 28 of the
Deschutes County Code, relating to historic
preservation, establishing a new historic preser-
vation ordinance, Ordinance No. 88- 008 ( 8/ 10/ 88).
24. An ordinance amending Ordinance No. 81- 043, and
establishing amendments to street and road stan-
dards, Ordinance No. 88- 015 ( 5/ 18/ 88).
III. Periodic Review Findings and Conclusions.
A. The background information cited above includes all
ordinance amendments which affect all land use in the
Redmond Urban Area Boundary. These ordinance amend-
ments are consistent with all changes made by the City
of Redmond. The specific findings of the Redmond
Periodic Review Order relating to all issues required
for review are, therefore, the same for the Redmond
Urban Area of the county as for the city.
B. The City of Redmond has taken a lead in the Urban Area
for Periodic Review. The Urban Area Planning Commis-
sion is a joint county/ city commission. The Board of
County Commissioners accepts the recommendations of the
Urban Area Planning Commission and adopted the city' s
findings contained in the City of Redmond Order.
C. There have been no Comprehensive Plan or Zoning Ordi-
nance amendments in the Redmond Urban Growth Boundary
since the acknowledgment of the Redmond Comprehensive
Plan on March 20, 1981.
3 - EXHIBIT " C"