VOL 36PAGE564
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
An Ordinance Creating a Joint F L,Redmond Urban Area Planning )
Commission; Describing the )
Powers and Duties Thereof;
Declaring an Emergency; and ) 1J~~~
Providing for an Effective Date )
fis0EA1,4ny PAl4rQES
CCUNryofiORDINANCE NO. 80- 227 / C
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY,
OREGON, ORDAINS as follows:
Section 1. Formation. Pursuant to Agreement between the
City of Redmond an Deschutes County, Oregon, dated the 27c- day
of CAAAAk,.&t , 19,%o , there is hereby created a joint Redmond
Urban Area Planning Commission ( Commission). It shall be the
Planning Commission for the City of Redmond and the unincorporated
area of Deschutes County within the adopted Redmond Urban Growth
Boundary.
Section 2. Membership and Expenses. The Commission shall
be composed of seven members who reside within the Urban Growth
Boundary. Three members shall be appointed by the Board of County
Commissioners of Deschutes County, Oregon, and four members shall be
appointed by the Redmond City Council and Mayor. The Board of County
Commissioners shall appoint one member for a term of two years and
two members for a term of four years. The Redmond City Council and
Mayor shall appoint two members for a term of four years and two
members for a term of two years.
1) Commission members shall receive no compensation,
but, shall be reimbursed for authorized expenses.
2) A member of the Commission may be removed by the
appointing body for misconduct, nonperformance of duty, or three
successive unexcused absences from regular meetings. The nonappoint-
ing body may, by resolution, request that a member be removed by the
appointing body. If the appropriate governing body finds misconduct,
nonperformance of duties, or three successive unexcused absences
from regular meetings, by said member, he or she shall be removed.
3) Vacancies in the Commission shall be filled by the
appropriate appointing authority for the unexpired term of the pre-
decessor in office.
4) No more than two voting members of the Commission may
engage principally in buying, selling, or developing of real estate
for profit as individuals, or be members of any partnership, or
officers or employees of any corporation, that engages principally
in the buying, selling, or developing of real estate for profit. No
more than two members shall be engaged in the same kind of occupation,
business, trade or profession.
ORDINANCE NO. 80- 227, PAGE 1
VOL 36PAGE565
5) No Commission member shall serve more than two full
terms or ten years, whichever is greater.
6) The membership of the Commission shall, as much as
possible, be representative of the various geographical parts of
the Redmond Urban Growth Boundary.
7) The Mayor, with the approval of the City Council,
may appoint a City Officer to serve as an ex- officio non- voting
member of the Commission. The Board of County Commissioners may
also appoint a County Official to serve as an ex- officio non- voting
member of the Commission.
Section 3. Election of Chairman and Vice- Chairman. At
its first meeting in January of each year, the Commission shall elect
from among its membership a Chairman and a Vice- Chairman. No person
shall be chairman for more than two years in succession.
Section 4. Quorum. A majority of the members of the
Commission shall constitute a quorum. The Commission may establish
rules, regulations and procedures for its operation consistent with
the laws of the State, City of Redmond, and Deschutes County.
Section 5. Meetin Schedule. The Commission shall meet
at least once a month. Not less than one meeting every two months
shall be devoted in part or in full to comprehensive planning within
the Redmond Urban Growth Boundary.
Section 6. Conflicts of Interest. A member of the
Commission shall not participate in any Commission proceeding or
action in which any of the following have a direct substantial financial
interest: the member or his spouse, brother, sister, child, parent,
father- in-law, mother- in-law; any business with which he is negotiating
for or has an arrangement or understanding concerning prospective
investment or employment. Any actual or potential interest shall
be disclosed at the meeting of the Commission where the matter is
being considered.
Section 7. Powers and Duties. The Commission shall have
the following duties:
1) Carry out a comprehensive planning program, using
citizen input and public hearings when appropriate, within the Redmond
Urban Growth Boundary, and coordinate its activities with other
jurisdictions, planning bodies and districts.
2) Review those land use applications within its
jurisdiction under City of Redmond and Deschutes County Ordinances.
Any appeals from the Commission shall be to the respective governing
body having jurisdiction.
3) Review and act on all appeals of land use and other
decisions.
ORDINANCE NO. 80- 227, PAGE 2
voL 36nGE566
4) Act as the Citizen Involvement Committee within the
Redmond Urban Growth Boundary and advise the governing bodies on
citizen involvement. programs. Study and propose such measures as
are advisable for promotion of the public interest, health, morals,
safety, comfort, convenience and welfare within the Redmond Urban
Growth Boundary.
5) All land use decisions rendered by the Commission
shall be supported by adequate written findings of fact.
Section 8. Advisory Role. The Commission may:
1) Recommend and make suggestions to the Redmond City
Council and Mayor, Board of County Commissioners of Deschutes County,
Oregon, and other public authorities concerning the laying out,
widening, extending and locating of public thoroughfares, parking
of vehicles, relief of traffic congestion, betterment of housing and
sanitation conditions; and establishment of districts for limiting
the use, height, area, bulk and other characteristics of buildings
and structures related to land development within the Redmond Urban
Growth Boundary.
2) Recommend to the Redmond City Council and Mayor,
Board of County Commissioners of Deschutes County, Oregon, and other
public authorities plans for regulating the future growth, develop-
ment and beautification of the Redmond Urban Growth Boundary;
development within the Redmond Urban Growth Boundary of proper sani-
tation, public utilities, transportation facilities and appropriate
incentives for overall energy conservation.
3) Recommend to the Redmond City Council and Mayor,
Board of County Commissioners of Deschutes County, Oregon, and other
public authorities, plans for promotion, development and regulation
of the economic needs of the community.
4) Make economic surveys and study the needs of present
and potential industrial and other business needs within the Redmond
Urban Growth Boundary.
Section 9. Staff Services. The City of Redmond and
Deschutes County Planning Staffs will hold joint responsibility for
preparing staff reports and submitting them to the hearings body.
A standard format shall be adopted and used for all reports submitted.
If the land for which an application has been filed is located in
the City of Redmond, the City Planning Staff will prepare the staff
report and send it to the Deschutes County Planning Staff for review
and comment prior to submission to the hearings body. If the land
for which an application has been filed is outside the City of
Redmond city limits, but inside the Redmond Urban Growth Boundary,
the County Planning Staff shall prepare the report and send it to
the City of Redmond Planning Staff for review and comment prior to
submission to the hearings body. In the event of disagreement,
each staff may present separate staff reports.
ORDINANCE NO. 80- 227, PAGE 3
VOL 36PAGE567
Section 10. Review. The Redmond City Council and Mayor
and Board of County Commissioners of Deschutes County, Oregon, shall
have the power to review, on its own motion, and hear appeals of, any
decision made by the hearings body, Hearings Officer, or Commission
which affects land under its jurisdiction.
Section 11. Effect. This Ordinance being necessary for
the immediate preservation o~ the public peace, health and safety,
an emergency is declared to exist, and this Ordinance takes effect
on January 1, 1981.
DATED this day of 1980.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
ATTEST:
u don" i
TAMMY J. I HARDSON
Recording Secretary
ORDINANCE NO. 80- 227, PAGE 4
eAALC,
ROBERT C. PAULSON, JR., Commis r
i