REVIEWED
LEGAL COUNSEL
COUNTY
NANCYUBLANKENSHIP,F000NTYCLERKDS
COMMISSIONERS' JOURNAL
30 MM
uiiuiuu2042-1581
05/ 07/2012 4Z,58,
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
An Ordinance Amending Deschutes County Code
Chapters 16. 08 and 16. 12 to Change the Addressing
Protocol For Properties Within the Redmond Fire and * ORDINANCE NO. 2012-009
Rescue District, and Declaring an Emergency
WHEREAS, at the request of the Redmond Fire and Rescue district, the Deschutes County Community
Development Department initiated amendments ( Planning Division File No. TA- 12-2) to the Deschutes County
Code (" DCC") Title 16, Chapters 16. 08 and 16. 12 to change the addressing protocol for properties within the
Redmond Fire and Rescue district; and
WHEREAS, the Deschutes County Planning Commission reviewed the proposed changes on March 8,
2012 and forwarded to the Deschutes County Board of Commissioners (" Board") a recommendation of
approval; and
WHEREAS, the Board considered this matter after a duly noticed public hearing on April 23, 2012 and
concluded that the public will benefit from the proposed changesto DCC Title 18; now, therefore,
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESC14UTES COUNTY, OREGON, ORDAINS
as follows:
Section 1. AMENDMENT. DCC Chapter 16. 08 is amended to read as described in Exhibit " A,"
attached hereto and by this reference incorporated herein, with new language underlined and language to be
deleted in stfikethfough.
Section 2. AMENDMENT. DCC Chapter 16. 12 is amended to read as described in Exhibit " B,"
attached hereto and by this reference incorporated herein, with new language underlined and language to be
deleted in striliethr-ough.
PAGE 1 OF 2 - ORDINANCE NO. 2012- 009
Section 3. EMERGENCY. This Ordinance being necessary for the immediate preservation of the
public peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist, and this Ordinance takes effect on its passage.
Dated this P-q of , 2012 BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
D
ANTHONY DeBONE, Chair
ALAN UNGER, Vice Chair
ATTEST:
ti
Recording Secretary TAMMY BA Y, Commi Toner
Date of 1
st
Reading: 21~4 day of 2012.
Date of 2ndReading:(/' day of ' 2012.
Record of Adoption Vote:
Commissioner Yes No Abstained Excused
Anthony DeBone
Alan Unger
Tammy Baney
Effective date: day of , 2012.
PAGE 2 OF 2 - ORDINANCE NO. 2012- 009
16. 08.010. Definitions.
Address" means:
A. Except as provided in DCC 16. 08.010( C), an address shall consist of a five-digit number and a road
name.
1. This address shall be determined at the location where the access driveway intersects a County road,
public way or private road.
2. The address assignedto any empty lot shall be based on the most probable access location.
3. For properties assigned addresses after the effective date of Ordinance 2011- 009 properties within
Redmond Fire and Rescue boundaries shall be assigned four- digit address wherever possible
consistent with the grid system for Redmond.
B. Address Numbering Direction
1. Addresses shall end in an even number on the North and East sides of a road and shall end in an odd
number on the South and West sides of a road.
2. After the effective date of Ordinance 201 1- 009 for properties within the Redmond Fire and Rescue
boundaries, addresses for properties on East/ West oriented roads will have consistent with existing
addresses in the immediate area,:
a. An odd number assigned to them on the North side of the road and
b. an even number assigned to them on the South side of the road to the extent possible
C. An address may be fewer than five digits when the address is assignedon a road that is a continuation of
a city street and the address numbers on the city street are fewer than five digits, except as outlined
above for properties within the Redmond Fire and Rescue boundaries
Board" means the Deschutes County Board of County Commissioners
Commercial lessee" means a lessee occupying a structure or portion of a structure having a separate street
address as defined herein for business purposes under a lease of one- year duration or more.
County Grid System" means a coordinate system for address numbering which covers all lands within
unincorporated Deschutes County.
A. The address numbers in the grid system shall increase as they traverse North and East from their initial
line at the rate of 400 intervals per section or approximately one interval for every 13 running feet of
road.
B. On North/ South roads, the addresses shall be numbered in accordance with their location on the grid
system, which begins with 50000 on the South and runs North consecutively to 71600, at the rate of 400
intervals per section.
C On East/ West roads, the addresses shall be numbered in accordance with their location on the grid
system, which begins with 7600 on the West and runs consecutively to 48400 at the rate of 400 intervals
per section.
D. The grid system for properties within the Redmond Fire and Rescue boundaries shall be as outlined in
DCC 16. 12.020( L).
County road" means a public road designated by the County as part of the County road maintenance
system.
Cul- de-sac" or " dead end street" means a short street having one end open to traffic and terminated by a
vehicle turnaround.
Dwelling" means a building or portion thereof designedor used as the residence or sleeping place for one
or more persons.
East/ West road" means a road that runs predominately East and West. Roads that lie predominately at an
angle greater than 45 degreesfrom due North or due South shall be numbered as East/ West roads.
PAGE 1 OF 2 - EXHIBIT " A" TO ORDINANCE 2012- 009
Grid lines" are a part of the County Grid System and run West to East and South to North for the entire
width and length of the County. These lines are used as reference points to determine the numerical portion
of an address that is assignedto dwellings or other structures. ( See Appendix " A.")
Initial south line" means the initial South line is the South township line of Township 22 South. This line is
defined as the number 50000 for the purposes of the County Grid System. The address numbers shall
increase South to North at the rate of 400 intervals per section until they reach 71600 at the North boundary
of the County in Township 14 South. The initial South line runs the entire width of the County, West to
East, through Ranges6 through 23 East of the Willamette Meridian.
Initial west line" means the initial West line is the West line of Range 7 East of the Willamette Meridian
the line between Ranges6 and 7). This line is defined as number 7600 for the purposes of the County Grid
System. The address numbers shall increase West to East at the rate of 400 intervals per section until they
reach 48400 on the furthest Easterly boundary of the County in Range23 East of the Willamette Meridian.
North/ South road" means a road that runs predominantly North and South. Roads that lie predominantly at
an angle less than 45 degreesfrom due North or due South shall be numbered as North/ South roads.
Private road" means a private right of way created by a recorded easement or other instrument, not
dedicated to or accepted by the County or other public body, and not designatedas part of the County road
maintenance system.
Public road" means a road over which the public has a right of use that is a matter of public record
Structure" means something aa~ 4hingconstructed or built, JeAiy edifice c: building f
a
carft kind,of vf
loeeAiffli OR the gf~undof ts to somethinghaving a leeation an the having a fixed base on.
or fixed connection to, the ground or another structure.
Ord. 2012- 009 § 1, 2012, Ord. 95- 064 § 1, 1995; Ord. 95- 052 § 1, 1995; Ord. 89- 010 § 1, 1989)
PAGE 2 OF 2 - EXHIBIT " A" TO ORDINANCE 2012- 009
Chapter 16. 12. ADDRESS NUMBERING
16. 12.020. Procedures and Standards for Assigning New Address Numbers.
The proceduresfor assigning new address numbers are as follows:
A. When a building permit is issued for a new dwelling or other structure on a lot or parcel that does not
have an address, the Community Development Department shall assignan address number based on the
street location of the structure's access and its location in the Deschutes County Grid System.
B. A new dwelling or structure with its access point on a North/ South road will be assigned an address
number based on its relationship to the grid system and where the access meets the road.
C. A new dwelling or structure with its access point on an East/ West road will be assigned an address
number based on its relationship to the grid system and where the access meets the road.
D. A new dwelling or structure with access on a North/ South road will have an even address number
assignedto it if it is on the East side of the road, and an odd address number assignedto it if it is on the
West side of the road.
E. A new dwelling or structure with access on an East/ West road will have an even address number
assignedto it if it is on the North side of the road, and an odd address number assignedto it if it is on the
South side of the road.
F. The numbers assigned to new dwellings or structures shall increase sequentially going North on a
North/ South road, and shall increase sequentiallygoing East on an East/ West road.
G. New dwellings or structures on cul- de-sacs shall be numbered in a consecutive alternating sequence
with even and odd numbers, as illustrated in Appendix "B," attached hereto.
H. New dwellings or structures on circles or loops shall be numbered as illustrated in Appendix "C,"
attached hereto.
1. Each new single-family dwelling shall have one address number.
J. New duplexes, triplexes and four- plexesshall be given an address number for each living unit.
K. New apartment complexes, mobile home parks and other multi- unit complexes shall be given an
address number as one dwelling. The owner of each such multi- unit establishment shall assign unit
address numbers in a manner that is acceptableto the Community Development Department.
L. After the effective date of Ordinance 2011-009, for the areas served by Redmond Fire and Rescue:
1. A new dwelling or structure with access on an East/ West road will have an odd number assigned to
it on the North side of the road, and an even number assigned to it on the South side of the road to
the extent possible, consistent with existing addresses in the immediate area, and
2. The addresses shall increase going north of Antler Avenue and shall increase going south of Antler
Avenue.
3. Numbers shall increase Rzoingeast of 1
s`
Street, and shall increase going west of 1
s`
Street.
Ord. 2012- 009 § 2, 2012 Ord. 89- 010 §1, 1989)
PAGE 1 OF 1 - EXHIBIT " B" TO ORDINANCE 2012- 009