VOL 47 PAGE555
95.
32051
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
An Ordinance Amending Ordin- *
ance No. PL - 15, Deschutes
County Zoning Ordinance of
1979, Providing for Building * ,.,
Setbacks For the Protection
of Solar Access and Solar * Jr= j yno'
Access Permits, Providing For * 1C7
Definitions and Procedures, *
iL9ARYand Providing For Permits. * SUEPENIIDLLOW, CO. CLERK
ORDINANCE NO. 83- 037
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY,
OREGON, ORDAINS as follows:
Section 1. Section 1. 020, PURPOSE, of Ordinance PL - 15, is
amended by the addition of the following:
To regulate the placement, height and bulk of build-
ings; and the placement and growth of vegetation
within the County to insure access to solar energy by
reasonably regulating interests in property within the
County, as authorized under ORS 215. 044 and ORS
105. 880 through 105. 890, to promote and maximize the
conservation of energy by preserving the option to
utilize solar energy and to implement the Comprehen-
sive Plan policies relating to solar energy.
To encourage the design of new buildings, structures
and developments which use solar energy and protect
future options to use solar energy by protecting solar
access."
Section 2. Section 1. 030, DEFINITIONS, of Ordinance PL - 15,
is hereby amended to add the following new definitions:
34A) Exempt Vegetation. A tree or other plant that
is shown by the sun chart accompanying a solar
access permit application to cast existing
shade on a protected area.
34B) Existing. Existing at the time of application.
C
1 - ORDINANCE NO. 83- 037
VOL ' 47 QAcc556
49A) Highest Shade Producing Point. The highest
shade producing point of the structure two
hours before and after the solar zenith on
December 21.
77A) Northern Lot Line. For the purposes of Section
5. 300, Building Setbacks for the Protection of
of Solar Access, the northern lot line shall be
the northerly edge of the lot on which an ap-
plicant' s structure is located, unless directly
north of the lot is an unbuildable area, in
which case northern lot line means the
northerly edge of the buildable area.
91A) Potential Structure. For purpose of solar
access protection on a potential structure is
any structure or building that could be built
as a permitted use in a particular location
under existing development standards under the
existing Deschutes County Comprehensive Plan.
93A) Productive Solar Collector. A solar collector
that provides no less than ( a) 10 per cent of a
building' s annual total energy requirements; or
b) 50 per cent of a building' s annual water
heating requirements.
94A) Protected Area. The specific area which is
provided solar access for specific hours and
dates under this Ordinance.
114A) Shade. A shadow, except a shadow caused by a
narrow object, including but not limited to a
utility pole, an antenna, a wire, or a
flagpole.
116A) Solar Access. Protection from shade for a
specific area during specific hours and dates,
but not including protection from shade cast by
exempt vegetation.
116B) Solar Access Permit. The instrument issued by
the County which limits the size of non- exempt
vegetation on certain lots in the vicinity of a
recorded solar collector.
116C) Solar Collector. Any object that uses solar
radiation for
not limited to
collectors.
2 - ORDINANCE NO. 83- 037
a useful purpose, including but
windows, walls, roofs and
va 47 ?ACE557
116D) Solar Heating Hours. The hours and dates
during which solar access is provided.
116E) Solar Height Restriction. The allowable height
of buildings, structures and non- exempt vegeta-
tion on a property burdened by the solar access
of another property.
125A) Substantially Shaded. Less than 80 per cent of
the available solar insolation is available
during winter solar heating hours to either the
south roof and/ or wall of an existing or
potential structure.
132A) Unbuildable Area. An area in which a structure
could not be built as a permitted use under
existing development standards for the area
under the existing Deschutes County Comprehen-
sive Plan.
125B) Sunchart. A photograph or photographs, taken
in accordance with the guidelines of the
Planning director, which plots the position of
the sun during each hour of the day and each
month of the year relative to a protected area.
The sun chart shall contain at a minimum:
A) Solar altitude in 10 degree increments;
B) Solar azimuth measured from true south in
15 degree increments;
C) If the solar collector is more than 20
feet wide, the southern skyline as seen
from the two end points and from the
center point o the lower edge of the
protected area; and
D) A clear delineation of the existing ob-
jects which cast shadows on the protected
area, including hills, structures, and
deciduous and evergreen vegetation.
136A) Winter Solar Heating Hours. The time period
extending two hours before and after the solar
zenith on December 21.
Section 3. The following Sections are added to Article 5,
SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS, of Ordinance PL - 15:
Section 5. 300. Building Setbacks for the Protection
of Solar Access.
3 - ORDINANCE NO. 83- 037
VOL 47 PAcE558
1) Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to
provide as much solar access as practical during the
winter solar heating hours to existing or potential
buildings by requiring all new structures to be con-
structed as far south on thier lots as is necessary
and feasible.
2) Standards. Every new structure or addition
to an existing structure shall meet the following
standards except as provided in ( c) below:
A) South Wall Protection Standard. The
south wall protection standard is
established in Appendix A, and all new
structures or additions shall meet this
standard if feasible. If it is not
feasible due to physical constraints of
the lot, including but not limited to
rock outcroppings, septic systems,
existing legal restrictions or lot
dimensions, as determined by the
Planning Director, then the structure
or addition must be located as far to
the south on the lot as feasible and
must meet the standard set forth in ( B)
below.
B) South Roof Protection Standard. All
new structures or additions to existing
structures shall meet the standard for
south roof protection set forth in
Appendix B.
C) Exceptions. The south roof protection
standard shall not apply only if the
applicant establishes:
1. That the structure cannot be
located on the lot without
violating the requirements
contained in Appendix B; and
2. That the structure is built with
its highest point as far to the
south as feasible; and
i) that the structure is a
single family residence with
a highest point less than or
equal to 16 feet high; or, if
not a single family resi-
dence;
4 - ORDINANCE NO. 83- 037
VOL 47 FACE559
ii) that it is a permitted or
conditional use for the lot.
3) Exemptions.
A) The governing body may exempt from the
provision of this Section any area
which it determines that solar uses are
not feasible because the area is
already substantially shaded due to
heavy vegetation, steep north facing
slopes, and any area or zone in which
taller buildings are planned.
B) The Planning Director shall exempt a
structure from the provisions of this
Section if the structure will shade
only a protected area in which solar
uses are not feasible because the
protected area is already substantially
shaded at the time a request for
exemption is made and approved by the
Planning Director.
C) The Planning Director shall exempt a
structure from the provisions of
Section 5. 300 of this Ordinance if the
structure is in conformance with a
solar height restriction as provided in
Sections 4. 300 and 6. 030 of Ordinance
81- 043, Deschutes County Subdivision/
Partition Ordinance, as amended.
Section 5. 350. SOLAR ACCESS PERMIT.
1) Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to
provide solar access to productive solar collectors by
establishing limitations, on a case by case basis, for
the growth of vegetation on certain lots in the
vicinity of a productive solar collector.
2) Application for Solar Access Permit
A) Any owner may submit an application for
a solar access permit to provide solar
access for a productive solar collector
located on the owner' s real property.
B) The application for a solar access per-
mit shall be on forms prescribed by the
County and shall contain at a minimum:
5 - ORDINANCE NO. 83- 037
VOL " 47 PAGE560
1. A legal description of the appli-
cant' s lot, including a statement
that the applicant is the owner of
the lot, and a description of the
nature of the applicant' s interest
in the lot;
2. Documentation to show that the
solar collector is or will be a
productive solar collector within
one year of application;
3. Descriptive drawings of the solar
collector showing its dimensions
and precise location;
4. A sunchart and a statement of the
solar heating hours for which
solar access is sought;
5. A statement that there is no
reasonable alternative location
for the solar collector that would
result in a lesser burden on a
neighboring lot;
6. A statement that trimming the
vegetation on the applicant' s lot
will not permit an alternative
location that would lessen the
burden on a neighboring lot;
7. A list of the lots that are within
150 feet to the south, southeast,
or southwest of the solar collect-
or, including street, alleys and
other ubuildable areas; a legal
description for each such lot; the
owner or record and his address;
the exempt vegetation located on
the lot; and any existing non-
exempt vegetation likely to en-
croach on the protected area.
8. A statement that none of the lots
impacted are located on a north
facing slope with a grade that
exceeds, on average, 15 per cent.
9. A plot plan showing the location
of and delineating all exempt and
non- exempt vegetation as shown on
6 - ORDINANCE NO. 83- 037
VOL 47 PAGE561
the sunchart photograph as well as
any non- exempt vegetation not
shown on the sunchart which may
encroach on the protected area in
the future. The plot plan shall
also include:
i) The exact site of the solar
collector, its height and
its orientation.
ii) Scale.
iii) An indication of true north.
iv) A survey of the lot.
C) The solar access permit application
shall be approved if:
1. The solar collector is or will be
a productive solar collector;
2. The protected area to be created
by the solar access permit is
reasonably located. A solar
access permit shall be denied
under this paragraph if the
applicant could trim his own
vegetation to permit an alterna-
tive location that would be less
burdensome upon a burdened neigh-
boring lot. A solar access permit
shall also be denied under this
paragraph if there is an alternate
location that would impose a
lesser burden on a neighboring lot
or lots.
3. The applicant requests solar
heating hours no greater than two
hours before and after the solar
zenith from September 22 to March
21, and three hours before and
after the solar zenith from March
22 to September 21;
4. The solar access provided by the
permit does not burden any lot:
with a north facing slope with a
grade that exceeds, on average, 15
7 - ORDINANCE NO. 83- 037
VOL 47 FACE562
per cent; or which is more than
150 feet from the solar collector;
and
5. The application is accurate and
complete.
3) Solar Access Permit Issuance and
Recordation.
A) Upon the approval of an application,
the County shall issue and acknowledge
a solar access permit creating the
solar access requested in the appli-
cation.
B) Upon receiving such a permit, the
County Clerk shall:
1. Record the solar access permit in
the chain of title of the appl-
icant' s lot and of each neighbor-
ing lot identified in the appli-
cation; and
2. Keep a copy of the approved appli-
cation on file in County Records.
C) The form of the solar access permit
shall be as prescribed by the County
and shall contain at a minimum:
1. A legal description of the appli-
cant' s lot and each neighboring
lot to be burdened by the solar
access created by the solar access
permit; and
2. A complete description of the
solar access restrictions appli-
cable to each neighboring lot,
including the solar heating hours
during which solar access is
provided, and a sunchart showing
the plotted skyline, including
vegetation and structures, and a
scaled drawing showing the size
and location of the protected area
and its orientation with respect
to true south; and
8 - ORDINANCE NO. 83- 037
VOL 47 PACE563
3. A reference to where the approved
application may be obtained.
4) Obligation Created by Solar Access Permit.
The owner of any lot burdened by a solar access permit
shall trim any vegetation not exempted on the burdened
lot that shades the protected area created by the
solar access permit, provided that there is no vegeta-
tion on the lot benefited by the solar access permit
that also shades the protected area. The cost of such
trimming shall be borne by the owner of the benefited
lot if the vegetation existed at the time of permit
application as shown on the plot plan; and for all
other vegetation, by the owner of the burdened lot.
Before any trimming is required, the collector owner
must certify that the collector is still productive.
5) Termination of Solar Access Permit.
A) The Planning Director shall terminate
the solar access permit with respect to
all or part of the neighboring lots
burdened by the solar access permit if
a petition for termination is submitted
by the applicant or the applicant' s
successor in interest, or the collector
is not productive for 12 consecutive
months.
B) The County Clerk Shall record the
termination of the solar access permit
in the chain of title of each lot
affected by the termination.
Section 5. Subsection ( 6) of Section 4. 010, of Ordinance
PL - 15, is amended by the addition of the following:
E) The setback from the northern lot line shall meet
the solar setback requirements in Section 5. 300."
Section 6. Subsection ( 5) of Section 4. 020, of Ordinance
PL - 15, is amended by the addition of the following:
E) The setback from the northern lot line shall meet
the solar setback requirements in Section 5. 300."
Section 7. Subsection ( 6) of Section 4. 030, of Ordinance
PL - 15, is amended by the addition of the following:
D) The setback from the northern lot line shall meet
the solar setback requirements in Section 5. 300."
9 - ORDINANCE NO. 83- 037
VOR 47 PACE564
Section 8. Subsection ( 7) of Section 4. 040, of Ordinance
PL - 15, is amended by the addition of the following:
D) The setback from the northern lot line shall meet
the solar setback requirements in Section 5. 300."
Section 9. Subsection ( 5) of Section 4. 060, of Ordinance
PL - 15, is amended by the addition of the following:
D) The setback from the northern lot line shall meet
the solar setback requirements in Section 5. 300."
Section 10. Subsection ( 5) of Section 4. 070, of Ordinance
PL - 15, is amended by the addition of the following:
C) The setback from the northern lot line shall meet
the solar setback requirements in Section 5. 300."
Section 11. Subsection ( 7) of Section 4. 080, of Ordinance
PL - 15, is amended by the addition of the following:
D) The setback from the northern lot line shall meet
the solar setback requirements in Section 5. 300."
Section 12. Subsection ( 7) of Section 4. 085, of Ordinance
PL - 15, is amended by the addition of the following:
D) The setback from the northern lot line shall meet
the solar setback requirements in Section 5. 300."
Section 13. Subsection ( 5) of Section 4. 090, of Ordinance
PL - 15, is amended by the addition of the following:
E) The setback from the northern lot line shall meet
the solar setback requirements in Section 5. 300."
Section 14. Subsection ( 5) of Section 4. 100, of Ordinance
PL - 15, is amended by the addition of the following:
C) The setback from the northern lot line shall meet
the solar setback requirements in Section 5. 300."
Section 15. Subsection ( 5) of Section 4. 110, of Ordinance
PL - 15, is amended by the addition of the following:
C) The setback from the northern lot line shall meet
the solar setback requirements in Section 5. 300."
Section 16. Subsection ( 4) of Section 4. 120, of Ordinance
PL - 15, is amended by the addition of the following:
10 - ORDINANCE NO. 83- 037
VOL 47 PAGE565
D) The setback from the northern lot line shall meet
the solar setback requirements in Section 5. 300."
Section 17. Subsection ( 8) of Section 4. 130, of Ordinance
PL - 15, is amended by the addition of the following:
D) The setback from the northern lot line shall meet
the solar setback requirements in Section 5. 300."
Section 18. Subsection ( 8) of Section 4. 140, of Ordinance
PL - 15, is amended by the addition of the following:
D) The setback from the northern lot line shall meet
the solar setback requirements in Section 5. 300."
Section 19. Subsection ( 5) of Section 4. 150, of Ordinance
PL - 15, is amended by the addition of the following:
D) The setback from the northern lot line shall meet
the solar setback requirements in Section 5. 300."
Section 20. Subsection ( 10) of Section 4. 220, of Ordinance
PL - 15, is amended by the addition of the following:
E) The setback from the northern lot line shall meet
the solar setback requirements in Section 5. 300."
Section 21. Subsection ( 5) of Section 4. 230, of Ordinance
PL - 15, is amended by the addition of the following:
H) The setback from the northern lot line shall meet
the solar setback requirements in Section 5. 300."
Section 22. Subsection ( 2) of Section 4. 240, of Ordinance
PL - 15, is amended by the addition of the following:
A) The setback from the northern lot line shall meet
the solar setback requirements in Section 5. 300."
Section 23. Subsection ( 2) of Section 4. 240, of Ordinance
PL - 15, is amended by the addition of the following:
B) The setback from the northern lot line shall meet
the solar setback requirements in Section 5. 300."
Section 24. Section 8. 30 of Ordinance PL - 15 is amended by
the addition of the following:
12) Planned Developments, Cluster Developments,
Destination Resorts and Dude Ranches shall meet
the solar access performance standard set forth
11 - ORDINANCE NO. 83- 037
VOL 47 PACE566
in the Deschutes County Subdivision Ordinance
No. 81- 043, Section 6. 030( 5)."
Section 25. Ordinance PL - 15 is amended by the addition of
Section 5. 260, SOLAR HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS, which reads as follows:
Section 5. 260. SOLAR HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS. No build-
ing, structure or non- exempt vegetation may exceed the
solar height restriction established on a burdened
property by the solar access of a benefited property."
DATED this ft day of 1983.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
ALBFid A. YsdWG,
ATTEST:
LOI OW P TE, Commissioner
6VI— SUSAN STONEMAN
Recording Secretary LAURE CE A. TUTT E, Commissioner
12 - ORDINANCE NO. 83- 037