94- 16577
REVIEWS
YJw
LEGAL COUNSEL
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
An Ordinance Adding Chapter 12. 4 8 ,
Local Improvements," to the
Deschutes County Code and
Declaring an Emergency.
ORDINANCE NO. 94- 025 0135- 1423
WHEREAS, ORS 371. 610 authorizes a County governing body to enact
its own ordinances to authorize the use of assessments to finance local
improvements and provide a procedure for levying such assessments; and
WHEREAS, use of assessments to finance local improvements and
providing procedures for levying such assessments is a matter of County
concern under ORS 203. 035; and
WHEREAS, it is the desire of the Board of County Commissioners to
provide for local improvement projects in a manner that is in
compliance with Section llb, Article XI of the Oregon Constitution and
its implementing statutes; and
WHEREAS, the Board wishes to provide safeguards regarding approval
of local improvements specially benefitting undeveloped land; Inow,
therefore,
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON,
ORDAINS as follows:
Section 1. Adoption of Chapter 12. 48. The provisions of Chapter
12. 48, " Local Improvements," attached hereto and incorporated herein as
Exhibit " A," are hereby enacted and made a part of the Deschutes County
Code.
Section 2. Severability. The provisions of this Ordinance are
severable. If any section, sentence, clause, phrase, area, overlay or
other separable part of this Ordinance or any exhibit thereto is
adjudged to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, that
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of
this Ordinance or any exhibit thereto.
Section 3. Effect on Existing Assessments and Pending Assessment
Proceedings. Nothing contained herein shall affect the validity of any
local improvements ordered prior to the effective date of this
Ordinance and all existing assessments for local improvements shall
continue to be valid. Nothing in this ordinance shall affect any
pending proceeding to authorize local improvements and to assess
properties therefore, nor shall any pending enforcement proceeding be
affected.
Section 4. Emergency. This Ordinance
immediate preservation of the public peace,
1 - ORDINANCE NO. 94- 025 ( 4/ 20/ 94)
being necessary for the
health and safety, an
Kc
A35- 1424
emergency is declared to exist, and this Ordinance takes effect on its
passage.
DATED this 20th day of April, 1994.
ATT T:
Recording Secr tary
OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
CHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
NANCY P fE ISC" LANGEN, Chair .
le
TOMITHROOP,
z
mmissioner
BARRY H. SLAUGHTE , Commissioner
2 - ORDINANCE NO. 94- 025 ( 4/ 20/ 94)
Exhibit A
Chapter 12. 48
LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
12. 48. 010 Purpose.
0135- 1425
The purpose of this chapter is to implement the authority granted
by the Oregon Revised Statutes to create local improvement districts to
construct local improvements, as that term is defined herein, that are
to be financed wholly or in part by special assessment against
benefitted property and to provide a procedure for levying, collecting
and enforcing payment of such special assessments.
12. 48. 020 Applicability.
This chapter shall apply to local improvements located in
unincorporated areas of the county.
12. 48. 030 Relationship to state law.
A. The procedures for making local improvements, as that term is
defined herein, shall be those set forth in this chapter, which
procedures are adapted from ORS chapter 371. Where there is a conflict
between ORS chapter 371 and the provisions contained herein, the
provisions of this chapter shall prevail.
B. In addition to the provisions of this chapter, the following
state statutes shall apply to the assessment of properties for local
improvements: ORS 223. 205 and ORS 223. 210 to ORS 223. 295; ORS 223. 405
to 223. 485; ORS 223. 505 through ORS 223. 650; ORS 223. 770; ORS 287. 502
to 287. 515 and ORS 288. 765. If there is a conflict between the
statutes listed in this subsection and this chapter, the provisions of
this chapter shall prevail.
C. When officials of cities are referred to in the statutes
listed in subsection ( B) of this section, the corresponding officials
of Deschutes County shall perform the required functions. The duties
required of the governing body of a city under those statutes shall be
performed by the board.
12. 48. 040 Definitions.
As used in this chapter, unless the context requires otherwise the
words and phrases are defined as set forth in 12. 48. 041- 101.
12. 48. 041 Definition - Actual cost.
Actual cost" means all direct or indirect costs incurred by the
County to deliver goods or provide services or undertake a capital
construction project. The " actual cost" of providing services to a
property or property owner includes the average cost or an allocated
3 - ORDINANCE NO. 94- 025 ( 4/ 20/ 94)
0135- 1426
portion of the total amount of the actual cost whether stated as a
minimum, fixed or variable amount. " Actual cost" includes, but is not
limited to the cost of labor, materials, supplies, equipment rental,
property acquisition, permits, engineering, financing, legal,
administration, depreciation, amortization, reserve for delinquencies
or defaults, debt service and any other item allowed by law.
Administrative expenses include those incurred in preparation for
formation of a local improvement district such as meeting with property
owners, preparing and processing the feasibility report, providing
notice and conducting hearings.
12. 48. 042 Definition - Assessment for Local Improvement
Assessment for local improvement" means any fee, charge or
assessment that does not exceed the actual cost incurred by the county
for a local improvement.
12. 48. 046 Definition - Board.
Board" means the Board of County Commissioners for Deschutes
County, Oregon.
12. 48. 051 Definition - Capital construction.
Capital construction" means the construction, modification,
replacement, repair, remodeling or renovation of a structure or
addition to a structure, which is expected to have a useful life of
more than one year, and includes, but is not limited to:
A. Acquisition of land, or a legal interest in land, in
conjunction with the capital construction of a structure.
B. Acquisition, installation of machinery or equipment,
furnishings or materials which will become an integral part of a
structure.
C. Activities related to the capital construction such as
planning, design, acquisition of interim or permanent financing,
research, land use and environmental impact studies, acquisition of
permits or licenses or other services connected with the construction.
D. Acquisition of existing structures, or legal interests in
structures, in conjunction with capital construction.
12. 48. 056 Definition - Engineer.
Engineer" means the county engineer, roadmaster, surveyor or
other engineer selected by the county governing body.
12. 48. 061 Definition - Estimated assessment.
A. " Estimated assessment" means, with respect to each property
to be assessed in connection with a local improvement, the total
4 - ORDINANCE NO. 94- 025 ( 4/ 20/ 94)
0135- 1427
assessment that, at the time of giving notice of the assessment and the
right to object or remonstrate, the board estimates will be levied
against the property following completion of the local improvement.
The estimate shall be based on the board' s estimate at that time of the
actual costs of the local improvement and the proposed formula for
apportioning the actual costs to the property.
B. Estimated assessment shall be determined by:
1. Excluding from estimated actual costs the estimated
financing costs associated with any bonds issued to accommodate the
payment of the assessment in installments; and
2. Including in estimated actual costs the estimated
financing costs associated with interim financing of the local
improvement.
12. 48. 066 Definition - Final assessment.
Final assessment" means, with respect to each property to be
assessed in connection with a local improvement, the total assessment
levied against the property following completion of the local
improvement. The total assessment shall be based on the actual costs
of the local improvement and the formula for apportioning the actual
costs to the property.
12. 48. 071 Definition - Financing.
A. " Financing" means all costs necessary or attributable to
acquiring and preserving interim or permanent financing of a local
improvement.
B. The costs of financing may include the salaries, wages and
benefits payable to employees of the county to the extent the same are
reasonably allocable to the work or services performed by the employees
in connection with the financing of a local improvement or any part
thereof. However, as a condition of inclusion of any salaries, wages
or benefits payable to employees of the county as financing costs of a
local improvement or any part thereof, the county shall establish a
record keeping system to track the actual work done or services
performed by each employee on or in connection with such local
improvement.
C. Financing costs that are to be incurred after the levy of a
final assessment may be included in the final assessment based on the
county' s reasonable estimate of the financing costs if the county first
documents the basis for the estimate and makes the documentation
available to interested persons on request.
12. 48. 076 Definition - Local improvement.
Local improvement" means a capital construction project, or part
thereof, undertaken by the county under the authority of this chapter
financed by assessments upon lots or parcels that have been benefitted
5 - ORDINANCE NO. 94- 025 ( 4/ 20/ 94)
by all or a part of the local improvement:
0135- 148
A. Which provides a special benefit only to specific properties
or rectifies a problem caused by specific properties;
B. The costs of which are assessed against those properties in
a single assessment upon the completion of the project; and
C. For which the property owner may elect to make payment of the
assessment plus appropriate interest over a period of at least 10
years.
For purposes of this section, the status of a capital construction
project as a local improvement is not affected by the accrual of a
general benefit to property other than the property receiving the
special benefit.
12. 48. 081 Definition - Owner.
Owner" means a vendee under a recorded land contract or if there
is no such contract, the holder of the record title, which vendee or
holder has a present interest equal to or greater than a life estate.
12. 48. 086 Definition - Road, county road and public road.
Road," " county road" and " public road" have the meanings given
those terms in ORS 368. 001.
12. 48. 091 Definition - Structure.
Structure" means any temporary or permanent building or
improvement to real property of any kind, which is constructed on or
attached to real property, whether above, or beneath the surface.
12. 48. 096 Definition - Undeveloped land.
Undeveloped land" means a lot or parcel with no improvements or
with improvements that constitute less than 25 percent of the land
value.
12. 48. 101 Definition - Value.
Value" means the real market value of property or improvements,
as shown by the most recent valuation by the county assessor or by
evidence of recent sales of comparable property in the same
development.
12. 48. 110 Petition or resolution for improvement of roads in
unincorporated areas.
A. Proceedings to cause any local improvement to be made or
constructed in an unincorporated area may be initiated by the board by
resolution or by a petition signed by not less than 60 percent of the
owners of the land representing not less than 60 percent of the land
6 - ORDINANCE NO. 94- 025 ( 4/ 20/ 94)
135--1429
abutting on the proposed local improvement and presented to the board
asking for the local improvement.
B. The resolution or petition shall indicate where the proposed
local improvement would be made and describe the nature of the local
improvement desired.
12. 48. 120 Signers of petition and objection in event of
cotenancies.
In case of tenants by the entireties, joint tenants or tenants in
common, the parcel of land is considered as having one owner, which
owner shall be deemed to have signed the petition provided for in
section 12. 48. 110 or the objection provided for in section 12. 48. 160
only if every cotenant of the parcel has signed. Signatories on behalf
of corporate owners must include a resolution of the board
demonstrating authority.
12. 48. 130 Designation.
The properties that are to be assessed for part or all of the cost
of a public improvement shall be included within the boundaries of, and
known together as a local improvement district or LID. In addition,
the property on which the public improvement is to be located and such
other incidental properties as necessary for a logical boundary may be
included.
12. 48. 140 Filing fees.
The board may by resolution or order adopt filing fees and deposit
requirements for petitions for local improvements.
12. 48. 150 Investigation of feasibility; estimation of cost of
local improvement; assessment by engineer.
A. When the resolution is adopted or the petition is filed with
it, the board shall refer the resolution or petition to the engineer,
who shall investigate the proposed local improvement. If the local
improvement is feasible, either as proposed or as modified under
section 12. 48. 150( B), the engineer shall make an estimate of the cost
of the local improvement and report the same to the board. T h e
engineer' s report may consider financial, land use and assessment
apportionment aspects of feasibility of the project as well as
technical feasibility. The engineer may consult with the assessor' s
office, planning division or county counsel' s office and any other
office as necessary. In addition, the engineer may solicit from owners
of affected properties and other parties such information as he deems
necessary to complete the report required by this section.
B. If initiation was by resolution, the engineer may propose
modifications to the scope of the proposed local improvement if in his
judgment modifications are necessary to make the project feasible.
C. If the local improvement is to be paid for in whole or in
7 - ORDINANCE NO. 94- 025 ( 4/ 20/ 94)
0135- 1430
part by special assessments against property benefitted by the local
improvement -- the engineer shall include in the report:
1. A map or plat showing the general nature, location and extent
of the proposed local improvement and of the proposed local improvement
district;
2. A description of the work to be done, including where
appropriate preliminary plans and/ or specifications;
3. An estimate of the probable actual cost of the improvement,
including interim financing;
4. A recommendation as to the method of assessment to be used to
arrive at a fair apportionment of the whole or any portion of the
probable actual cost of the local improvement to the properties
specially benefitted;
5. A description and assessed value of each lot, parcel of land
or portion thereof, to be specially benefitted by the local
improvement, with the names of the record owners thereof;
6. The estimated assessment or assessments against each lot or
parcel; and
7. In local improvements involving undeveloped land, whether the
criteria of section 12. 48. 330( A) have been met.
D. Where the local improvement petitioned for includes the
construction and installation of lateral sewers, street mains or
similar facilities, a separate statement of the estimated cost of and
estimated assessment for the construction and installation of lateral
sewers, street mains or similar facilities shall be included.
12. 48. 160 Description of real property - Effect of error in name
of owner.
A. For the purposes of the engineer' s report and any subsequent
listing of properties as part of an estimated or final assessment, the
real property to be assessed may be described by giving the subdivision
according to the United States survey when coincident with the
boundaries thereof, or by lots, blocks and addition names, by metes and
bounds, or by reference to the book and page of any public record where
the description may be found, so that the description can be made
certain.
B. If the property owner is unknown, the land may be assessed to
unknown owner," or " unknown owners." If the property is correctly
described, no final assessment shall be invalidated by a mistake or
omission in the name of the owner. Where the name of the true owner,
or the owner of record, or any parcel of real property is given, the
final assessment shall not be held invalid on account of any error or
irregularity in the description if the description would be sufficient
in a deed or conveyance from the owner, or is such that, in a suit to
8 - ORDINANCE NO. 94- 025 ( 4/ 20/ 94)
enforce a contract to convey, employing such description a court of
equity would hold it to be good and sufficient.
C. Any description of real property that conforms substantially
to the requirements of this section shall be sufficient in all
proceedings relating to a final assessment for a local improvement,
foreclosure and sale of delinquent assessments, and in any other
proceeding relating to or connected with levying, collecting and
enforcing final assessments.
12. 48. 170 Engineer' s report - Determination to proceed with LID
formation - Filing of objections.
A. The engineer shall forward his report to the board for
consideration. The board may approve the report, modify the report and
approve it as modified, require additional or different information or
abandon the project.
B. If the board approves a report, it shall enact an order
creating and describing the local improvement district, declaring its
intention to make the local improvement, providing the manner and
method of carrying out the improvement, setting a public hearing on the
improvement and directing that notice be given of the public hearing.
Written notice containing the information set forth in section
12. 48. 170 of this chapter shall thereupon be mailed to the owner of
each lot or parcel to be assessed for the proposed local improvement.
C. Owners shall have the right to object to the further
prosecution of the local improvement either by filing with the board a
written objection within 20 days after the mailing of the notice or by
oral testimony at the hearing, the date of which shall be not less than
20 days after the date the notice was mailed.
12. 48. 170 Notice contents.
The hearing notice shall contain the following information:
A. A general description of the proposed local improvement and
of the local improvement district. The description need not be by
metes and bounds and shall be such that an average person can determine
from it the general location of the property and shall include a
listing of the affected parcels or lots;
B. A statement that an engineer' s report has been filed for the
proposed local improvement and that the report is on file and subject
to public examination;
C. The estimated cost of the local improvement and the amount of
the estimated assessment against the land of the owner;
D. The time and place of a public hearing on the improvement to
hear objections;
E. A statement explaining the remonstrance process; and
9 - ORDINANCE NO. 94- 025 ( 4/ 20/ 94)
0135- 1432
F. A statement that a single owner of more than three lots or
parcels to be assessed will be required to furnish security in the
amount of 110 percent of the estimated assessment for each lot or
parcel held by the owner in excess of three lots or parcels.
12. 48. 190 Mailing of notice.
Notice required to be sent to the owner of a lot affected by a
proposed estimated or final assessment shall be addressed to the owner
or the agent of the owner. If the address of the owner or of the agent
of the owner is unknown, the notice shall be addressed to the owner or
the agent of the owner at the address where the property is located.
Any mistake, error, omission, or failure with respect to the mailing
shall not be jurisdictional or invalidate the assessment proceedings,
but there shall be no foreclosure or legal action to collect until
notice has been given by personal service upon the property owner, or,
if personal service cannot be had, then by publication once a week for
two successive weeks in a newspaper designated by the board and having
general circulation in Deschutes County.
12. 48. 200 Board order for improvement - Recording - Vacation of
order.
A. At the time of the public hearing, the board shall hear any
testimony on the proposed local improvement and may continue the
hearing as it deems necessary. If objections are received by the board
signed by more than 50 percent of the owners of land representing more
than 50 percent of the total amount of the estimated assessment for the
proposed local improvement, the proposed local improvement shall, by
order of the board, be declared abandoned and no new petition may be
filed and no new resolution may be adopted for the local improvement
within a period of one year after the date of the order, unless the
board exercises its discretion under subsection ( C) to modify the
proposal in response to the testimony and objections.
B. If following the hearing the board determines that the
proposed local improvement should be made and the number of objections
mentioned in this section has not been received, the board may at its
discretion, by order describing the land to be assessed, direct the
local improvement to be made by contract or by force account. If by
contract, it shall be awarded in the same manner as provided for other
contracted county road improvements.
C. Following the hearing, the board may modify the proposed
local improvement, the estimated cost, the assessment method or the
estimated assessments in response to information received and
objections raised, in which case an additional hearing shall be noticed
in accordance with section 12. 48. 170 to 12. 48. 200 of this chapter.
D. The board can suspend or abandon proceeding with a local
improvement at any time up to letting contracts for construction if it
determines that the minimum requirements of section 12. 48. 330( A) are
not being met or for any other reason.
10 - ORDINANCE NO. 94- 025 ( 4/ 20/ 94)
0135- 1433
12. 48. 210 Recording order with county clerk.
A. The board shall cause to be filed in the appropriate lien
records in the county clerk' s office a copy of the order. Filing of
the order shall serve as notice that upon completion of the local
improvement described in the order a lien in a fixed amount
representing each listed properties' equitable share of the actual
costs of the local improvements will be imposed on each of the listed
properties.
B. If the proposed local improvement described in the order of
the board is not commenced within two years after the notice is
recorded, the board may by a new order vacate its former order for the
proposed local improvement. The board shall record with the county
clerk the order vacating the former order for the proposed local
improvement. Thereupon the land described shall be free of the effect
of the former order. The county clerk shall indorse upon the new order
the date of the filing thereof, and shall record and index the same in
the lien record referred to in subsection ( A) of this section.
12. 48. 220 Engineer to compile local improvement actual cost -
Source of payment - Reimbursement of source; additional
work.
A. After the local improvement has been completed, inspected by
the engineer and accepted by the board, the engineer shall compile the
actual cost of the local improvement. Where the local improvement
includes the construction and installation of lateral sewers, street
mains or similar facilities, the engineer shall separately compile the
total cost of those local improvements.
B. Payment of the cost of the local improvement other than for
the construction and installation of lateral sewers and street mains or
similar facilities shall be made from the general road funds, from any
funds available for the construction or improvement of county roads or
from revenues available from interim financing methods authorized by
law. Payment of the cost of the construction and installation of
lateral sewers and street mains or similar facilities shall be made
from any funds available to the county for such improvements.
C. The funds expended for the local improvement shall be
reimbursed or the local improvement warrants shall be retired to the
extent of the proceeds of an assessment against the land benefitted by
the local improvement, but no estimated or final assessment shall be
made against any operating railroad right of way without the consent of
the owner thereof. The final assessment shall assess each landowner a
portion of the cost of the local improvement corresponding to the
relative benefit to the land of the landowner from the local
improvement.
D. All of the cost of improvements within intersections
connected with any local improvement under this chapter may be borne by
the county.
11 - ORDINANCE NO. 94- 025 ( 4/ 20/ 94)
0135- 1d34
E. Unless notified to the contrary by the owner prior to the
acceptance of bids for local improvements under this chapter, an
existing driveway shall be reconstructed to the property line to
conform with the new grade. Additional driveways or other road
connections, including retaining walls, may be constructed
simultaneously with the local improvements when a written request is
filed with the board prior to the acceptance of bids by the affected
abutting landowners. The cost of the driveway and all requested work
shall be charged to the abutting owner and added to the final
assessment against the land of the owner.
12. 48. 230 Allocation of costs of sidewalk or curb construction and
other improvements.
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in this chapter, the
cost of construction of sidewalks under this chapter shall be assessed
in proportion to the front footage of the land or otherwise, as
provided in those sections, to the owners of land abutting on the side
of the street or road on which the sidewalks are constructed and
fronting on such sidewalks. The cost of construction of all other
local improvements under this chapter shall be assessed in the manner
provided in this chapter, to the owners of land benefitted by the local
improvement.
12. 48. 240 Engineer to ascertain assessment - Hearing on objections
Board order.
A. The engineer shall ascertain the amount of the final
assessment against each parcel of land assessed for the local
improvement and report the same to the board.
B. The board by order shall thereupon set the time and place for
a hearing of objections to the final assessments as fixed in the report
of the engineer.
C. Not less than ten days prior to the date of the hearing, the
board shall mail to the owner of each property proposed to be assessed,
at the address of the owner as shown on the petition or on the latest
tax roll of the county, a written notice of the time and place for the
hearing of objections and of the amount of the proposed final
assessment against the land of the owner.
D. After hearing any written or oral objections, the board shall
by order, listing and describing each property to be assessed and
listing and describing the ownership of each such property, determine
from the evidence submitted the amount of the final assessment against
each individual listed property. The order shall certify the amount of
the final assessment against each listed individual property. In
addition, the order shall ( 1) specify the terms for installment
payments and, subject to section 12. 48. 260, the date that payments or
applications for installment payments are due; ( 2) order in accordance
with ORS 223. 210 that notice of the final assessment be published; ( 3)
order in accordance with ORS 223. 210 that the director of public works
mail to the owners of the assessed properties notice of the final
12 - ORDINANCE NO. 94- 025 ( 4/ 20/ 94)
0135- 1435
assessment and an application to finance the local improvements; and
4) direct that the list, excluding any property known to be subject to
bankruptcy proceedings, be filed in the appropriate lien docket of the
county.
12. 48. 250 Recording of final assessment - Lien.
A. After passage of the order determining the final assessments,
the board shall cause the list of assessed properties, excluding any
properties known to be subject to bankruptcy proceedings, to be filed
with the county clerk for entry in the approprate lien docket. The
list shall include a statement of the amounts assessed against each lot
or parcel, the name of the owners, the date of the order levying the
assessment and the date on which payment or application for installment
payment is due. The county clerk shall indorse thereon the date of the
filing thereof and record and index it in the county lien docket.
B. For properties known to be subject to bankruptcy proceedings,
the lien may be imposed separately consistent with the requirements of
applicable bankruptcy law.
C. Upon such entry in the lien docket, the final assessments and
interest are a lien upon the land against which the same are assessed.
Each lot or parcel is deemed to be benefitted by the local improvement
to the full amount of the final assessment levied thereon. The lien
shall have priority over all other liens and encumbrances whatsoever to
the fullest extent provided by law.
D. No transfer, sale or division of any such lot or parcel, or
change in the legal description thereof, in any way divests the lien
from the original parcel and the whole thereof. Failing to enter the
name of the owner or a mistake in the name of the owner does not in any
way render void any estimated or final assessment and does not in any
way affect the lien on the land described.
E. All payments shall be entered in the lien docket and shall
discharge the lien to the amount of such payment. Upon payment of the
final assessment in full, the board shall satisfy the same by a
notation in the lien docket referred to above, and the parcel of land
charged with such assessment is thereby discharged from the lien.
12. 48. 260 When assessment due, payable and delinquent - Interest -
By whom collected.
A. Except as provided in subsection ( B) of this section, 30 days
after the final assessment is certified, the entire amount against each
lot or parcel shall be due and payable at the office designated by the
board; and if not so paid, shall be delinquent from that date and shall
bear interest at a rate established by the board.
B. The owner of property assessed under this chapter shall have
the right to apply for installment payment of the assessment as
provided in ORS 223. 210. Notwithstanding ORS 223. 210( 2), unless
otherwise stated in the order of final assessment, the time period for
13 - ORDINANCE NO. 94- 025 ( 4/ 20/ 94)
0135- 1436
making application for installment payments shall be within 30 days
after the publication of notice of assessment. In no case shall the
deadline for application for installment payments be fewer than 10 days
after the publication of notice of assessment.
C. The provisions of ORS 223. 205 and 223. 210 to 223. 295
Bancroft Bonding Act), 223. 770 relating to the assessment of property
benefitted by public improvements and to the issuance of bonds and
other obligations for the cost of the improvements, the provisions of
ORS 287. 502 to 287. 515 relating to the issuance of improvement warrants
by cities, and the provisions of ORS 288. 165 relating to interim
financing shall apply insofar as practicable and applicable in relation
to the assessment by the county of the cost or any portion of the cost
of local improvements against the property benefitted in accordance
with this chapter and to the issuance of bonds and other obligations by
the county. However, notwithstanding the provisions of ORS 223. 295
issuing bonds and other obligations under the provisions of this
section, a county may incur indebtedness to an amount not exceeding
0375 of the latest real market valuation of the county.
D. Where, in ORS 223. 205 to 223. 295, 223. 770 and 287. 502 to
287. 515, officials of governmental units or cities are referred to, the
corresponding officials of Deschutes County, where applicable, shall
perform the required functions. The duties required of the common
council, board of trustees, or other governing body of a city shall be
performed as to this section by the board. The duties required of the
auditor, clerk or other officer charged with keeping the records of a
city shall be performed as to this section by the county clerk. The
duties required of the mayor or other executive head of a city shall be
performed as to this section by the chairman of board. The duties of
the city treasurer shall be performed as to this section by the county
treasurer.
12. 48. 270 Errors in assessment calculation or determination.
If the county finds that there has been an error in the
calculation of the assessment or in any other aspect of the
certification of the assessments, the board may amend the order levying
the assessments to correct such errors; cause the necessary correction
to be made in the county lien docket; and send a corrected notice of
assessment by mail.
12. 48. 280 Deficit assessments or refunds when initial assessment
based on estimated cost.
If it is found that the amount of the assessment is insufficient
to defray the expenses of the local improvement, the board may, by
motion, declare such deficit and declare a deficit assessment and shall
mail notice of the hearing to owners of the affected property. After
such hearing, the board shall make an equitable deficit assessment, by
order, which shall be entered in the appropriate county lien docket as
provided by this chapter; and notices of the deficit assessment shall
be mailed and the collection of the assessment shall be made in
14 - ORDINANCE NO. 94- 025 ( 4/ 20/ 94)
0135- 1937
accordance with this chapter consistent with the collection of the
original assessment.
12. 48. 290 Rebates.
If for any reason the County collects more than is due under this
chapter or any order of the board authorized herein, then the board
must ascertain and declare the same by order; and when so declared, the
excess amounts must be entered on the lien docket as a credit on the
appropriate assessment. In the event that the assessment has been
paid, the person who paid the same or his legal representative, shall
be entitled to the repayment of such rebate credit, or portion thereof,
that exceeds the amount unpaid on the original assessment. Notice of
the rebate shall be sent to the person who paid the amount at the
person' s last address as shown on the LID records of the county. If
within 60 days the person cannot be located, payment shall be made to
the current owner of the property from which overpayment arose without
recourse against the county by the original payor.
12. 48. 300 Curative provisions.
No assessment shall be rendered invalid by reason of a failure of
the report to contain all of the information required by this chapter;
or by reason of a failure to have all of the information required to be
in the order authorizing improvement, the order levying assessments,
the lien docket or notices required to be published or mailed; nor by
the failure to list the name of, or tax list of, or mail notice to, the
owner of any property as required by this chapter; or by reason of any
other error, mistake, delay, omission, irregularity, or other act,
jurisdictional or otherwise, in any of the proceedings or steps herein
specified, unless it appears that the assessment is unjust in its
effect upon the person complaining; and the board shall have the power
and authority to remedy and correct all such matters by suitable action
and proceedings.
12. 48. 310 Remedies.
Actions of the board pursuant to this chapter are subject to
judicial review exclusively by writ of review in accordance with the
procedures in ORS 34. 010 to 34. 100. Review of an order of the board
directing that an improvement be made or levying an assessment may be
commenced only by a property owner who has filed a written remonstrance
or objection or who has remonstrated or objected in person at a hearing
before the board as provided in this chapter. Failure to so
remonstrate or object shall constitute a waiver and failure to exhaust
administrative remedies.
12. 48. 320 Collection.
A. An assessment or installment payment is delinquent from the
date it is due as ordered by the board or specified by the treasurer.
Delinquencies shall accrue interest at a rate specified by the
treasurer. If any installment payment remains delinquent for a period
15 - ORDINANCE NO. 94- 025 ( 4/ 20/ 94)
1135-- 1438
of one year, the entire outstanding assessment amount shall then be
accelerated and become due along with any interest and penalties.
B. If any installment on any lien bonded as provided by law
remains delinquent for a period of one year from the time it became due
and payable, or at any time after 60 days from the time it became due
and payable if not bonded, the county may order the initiation of
foreclosure proceedings against the affected property.
C. The order shall: ( 1) list the person or persons in default
and the description of the property or properties on which the sum or
sums are owing; ( 2) state the sums due, including principal, interest
and any late payment penalties or charges for each property in default;
3) declare the entire balance of the assessment to be due and payable
at once; and ( 4) direct that all unpaid assessments, interest and
penalties be collected in any manner provided by law.
D. Enforcement of assessment liens and collection shall be
carried out in conformance with ORS 223. 505 to 223. 650.
12. 48. 330 Minimum requirements for local improvements involving
undeveloped land.
A. Prior to approval of local improvements specially benefitting
properties that are predominantly undeveloped, the board shall subject
to subsections ( B) and ( C) of this section find that each of the
requirements listed in this subsection ( A) has been met or will be met
prior to commencement of construction:
1. The value of the land and improvements for each of the lots
or parcels to be assessed, other than those held by public agencies,
exceeds the assessment by a ratio of no less than 2: 1;
2. Any lots or parcels requiring conditional use approvals for
dwellings in residential subdivisions are subject to clear and
objective approval standards, and it can be demonstrated that there is
a reasonable expectation that dwellings on such parcels can be
approved;
3. All services ( electricity, water, telephone, sewer, if
applicable) have been installed in the right of way adjacent to the lot
or parcel;
4. No lots or parcels to be assessed are subject to land sale
contracts or are encumbered by a blanket mortgage, trust deed or land
sale contract;
5. Proof of payment of all current and prior years' ad valorem
taxes, interest and penalties for 90 percent of the lots in the
development proposed to be assessed and 100 percent of the lots or
parcels held by a developer;
6. Security in accordance with section 12. 48. 340 will be posted
by the owner to cover 110 percent of the amount of the estimated
16 - ORDINANCE NO. 94- 025 ( 4/ 20/ 94)
11135- 1439
assessment for each lot or parcel in excess of three lots or parcels
held in single ownership. For purposes of this subsection, separate
properties each held in the names of separate spouses will be deemed to
be held in single ownership. In addition, properties held in the name
of a closely held corporation will be deemed to be held in the name of
the principal shareholder. For purposes of this section, the board
retains the right to ignore what it regards to be sham transactions the
purpose of which it finds to be to evade this provision.
B. In addition, the county may require submission of such
additional information as it deems necessary, such as but not limited
to financial statements, credit reports, title reports, etc., to
evaluate the financial viability of the project and the risk to the
county.
C. The board may at its discretion allow for a variance from any
of the standards of this section if it determines, based upon the
totality of the circumstances surrounding the LID, that risk to the
County would not be appreciably heightened by relaxation of the
standard in question.
D. In any event, notwithstanding that the minimum standards of
this section have been met, the board may exercise its discretion to
refuse to proceed with the local improvements if it concludes that the
financial risks to the county of proceeding are too great.
12. 48. 340 Interim security.
A. Security required by section 12. 48. 330 shall take the form of
cash or a certificate of deposit deposited with the county or an
irrevocable letter of credit in a form and issued by a financial
institution acceptable to the county for 110 percent of the amount of
the estimated assessment on each lot or parcel subject to this
requirement.
B. Such security shall be held for the period between
commencement of construction until 90 days after the lien of the final
assessment attaches to the subject property, unless the security is
resorted to under subsection ( C) of this section or the board abandons
prosecution of the local improvement.
C. The security shall serve as collateral for the owner' s
ability to provide a lien to the county at the completion of
construction of the local improvements. If the posting party is not
able to provide the county with a lien due to the stay of bankruptcy at
the completion of construction of the local improvements, the county
may ( 1) find the owner to be in breach and resort to the security for
payment of the final assessment; or ( 2) use the security as collateral
for purposes of seeking relief from the stay of bankruptcy so as to
allow assessment of the subject property or properties with the final
assessment for the local improvements.
17 - ORDINANCE NO. 94- 025 ( 4/ 20/ 94)
X135- 14Np
D. The security and an agreement reflecting the terms of this
section shall be in place prior to the awarding of contracts for
construction of the local improvement.
E. Cash deposited with the county shall be deposited in an
interest bearing account, which interest shall be credited to the
owner.
F. To the extent that the security offered is segregable, the
security will be released to the owner to reflect any reduction by bona
fide sale in the number of lots or parcels held by the owner prior to
commencement of construction.
18 - ORDINANCE NO. 94- 025 ( 4/ 20/ 94)