REVTLEWED
LEGAL CO SEL
REVIEWED
in
CODE REVIEW COMMITTEE
COUNTY OFFICIAL
NANCYUTES
BLANKENSHIP, COUNTY
CLERKDS
Vy 2003305
COMMISSIONERS' JOURNAL
10/08/200304;53;52PM
11il][III
311111111111111111
Z13
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
An Ordinance Amending Title 18 of the
DeschutesCounty Code, the DeschutesCounty * ORDINANCE NO. 2003- 080
Zoning Ordinance, to changethe zoning of
eight ( 8) tax lots from Rural Residential to the
Rosland Rural Commercial Zone.
WHEREAS, in Ordinance No. 2003-079, incorporated by reference herein, the Board of County
Commisoners ( Board) approved the Comprehensive Plan ( Plan) amendment requested in Land Use Files
TA - 02- 13 and ZC- 02- 5; and
WHEREAS, the Board' s Plan amendment approval requires the adoption of amendments to
DeschutesCounty Code (DCC) Title 18 in order to implement the Plan amendment; and
WHEREAS, the Board' s Plan amendmentapproval requires a revision to the County' s zoning
map to zone the subject property Rural Commercial; and
WHEREAS, on June4, 2003 the Board held a duly noticed public hearing on the Zoning
Ordinance and zoning map amendmentsin conjunction with the hearing for Ordinance No. 2003-079;
now, therefore,
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON,
ORDAINS as follows:
Section 1. AMENDMENT. DCC 18. 74, Rural Commercial Zone, is amended to read as
describedin Exhibit " A," attachedhereto and by this reference incorporated herein, with new language
underlined.
Section 2. AMENDMENT. The DeschutesCounty zoning map in DCC Title 18.74.050, Maps
is amended as shown on Exhibit " B," attachedhereto and incorporated herein by this referenceto zone
the subject property Rural Commercial.
Page 1 of 2 — ORDINANCE NO. 2003- 080 ( 09/ 17/ 03)
Section 3. FINDINGS. The Board adopts its Decision in TA - 02- 13 and ZC- 02- 5, attached hereto
and by this reference incorporated as Exhibit" C" of this ordinance, as its findings to support adoption of
this ordinance. The Hearings Officer' s decision in TA - 02- 13 and ZC- 02- 5 is attached as Exhibit " D" of
this ordinance.
DATED this Y day of , 2003.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
OF DESC1 UTES COUNTY, OREGON
4 L z
I S 4
D IS R. LUKE, Chair
TOM DEWOLF, Commissioner
Z - Vw- 4
M C EL M. " DAL , " ommis ' oner
Date of 1stReading: e day of 2003.
Date of 2ndReading: P, day of 0-6t-, 2003.
Record of Adoption Vote
Commissioner Yes No Abstained Excused
Dennis R. Luke
Tom DeWolf t/
Michael M. Daly
2Z 0
Effective date: day of .
ATTEST:
Recording Secretary
Page 2 of 2 — ORDINANCE NO. 2003- 080 ( 09/ 17/ 03)
EXHIBIT " A"
Chapter 18. 74. Rural Commercial Zone B.
18. 74. 010. Purpose.
18. 74. 020. Uses permitted — Deschutes Junction
and Deschutes River Woods Store.
18. 74. 025 Uses permitted — Spring River.
18. 74. 027 Uses Permitted — Rosland.
18. 74. 030. Development standards.
18. 74. 010. Purpose.
The purpose of this chapter is to establish standards
and review procedures for development in the Rural
Commercial Zone. The Rural Commercial ( RC)
zone provisions implement the comprehensive plan
policies for rural commercial development and
associated uses outside of unincorporated
communities and urban growth boundaries.
Ord. 2003- 080 § 1, 2003, Ord. 2002- 019 § 2, 2002)
18. 74. 020. Uses permitted.
A. Uses Permitted Outright. The following uses
and their accessory uses are permitted outright
and do not require site plan review:
1. Single-family dwelling.
2. Manufactured home subiect to DCC
18. 116. 070.
3. Two- family dwelling.
4. Home occupation that:
a. is carried on within a dwelling only by
members of the family who reside in
the dwelling;
b. does not serve clients or customers on-
site;
c. does not produce odor, dust, glare,
flashing lights or noise;
d. does not occupy more than 25 percent
of the floor areaof the dwelling; and
e. does not include the on - premises
display or sale of stockin trade.
5. Agricultural uses.
6. Class I and R road or street project subject
to approval as part of a land partition or
subdivision, or subject to the standards and
criteria established in DCC 18. 116. 230.
7. Class III road or street project.
8. A lawfully established use existing as of
11/05/ 02, the date this chapter was adopted,
not otherwise permitted by this chapter.
Uses Permitted Subject to Site Plan Review.
Thefollowing usesandtheir accessoryusesare
permitted subject to the applicable provisions of
this chapter and DCC 18. 116 and 18. 128:
1. A buildingorbuildingsnotexceeding2,500
squarefeetof floor spaceto beusedby any
combination of the following uses.
a. Restaurant, caf6 or delicatessen.
b. Grocery store.
c. Tavern.
d. Retail sporting goods and guide
services.
e. Barber and beauty shop.
f. General store.
g. Video store.
h. Antique, art, craft, noveltyandsecond
hand sales if conducted completely
within an enclosedbuilding.
2. Expansion of a nonconforming use listed
under section B( 1)( a-h), existing as of
11/ 05/ 2002, the date this chapter was
adopted, shall be limited to 2, 500 square
feet or 25 percent of the size of the building
as of said date, whichever is greater.
3. A building or buildings not exceeding3,500
squarefeet of floor spaceto be usedby any
combination of the following uses.
a. Retail sales of agricultural or farm
products.
b. Farm machinery salesandrepair.
c. Kennel.
d. Veterinary clinic.
e. Automobile service station and repair
garage, towingservice, fuel storageand
sales.
f. Public or semi- public use.
g. Residentialusein the samebuildingas
a usepermitted by this chapter.
h. Park or playground.
4. Expansion of a nonconforming use listed
under section B( 3)( a- h), existing as of
11/ 05/ 2002, the date this chapter was
adopted, shall be limited to 3, 500 square
feet or 25 percent of the size of the building
as of said date, whichever is greater.
C. Conditional Uses. The following usesand their
accessory uses are permitted subject to the
applicable provisions of this chapter and DCC
18. 116, 18. 124 and 18. 128:
Page 1 of 5 - EXHIBIT " A" to ORDINANCE NO. 2003- 080 ( 09/ 10/ 03)
EXHIBIT " A"
1. A buildingor buildingsnotexceeding3,500
squarefeetof floor spaceto beusedby any
combination of the following uses.
a. Home occupation as defined in DCC
18. 04.
b. Utility facility.
c. Wireless telecommunications facilities,
except those facilities meeting the
requirements of DCC 18. 116. 250( A) or
B)• -
d. Child care center.
e. Church.
f. School.
2. Recreational vehicle park.
Ord. 2002- 019 § 2, 2002)
18. 74. 025. Uses allowed in Spring River Rural
Commercial/ Limited Use
Combining Zone.
A. Uses Permitted subject to Site Plan Review.
The following usesand their accessoryusesare
permitted subject to the applicable provisions of
this chapter and DCC 18. 116 and 18. 128:
1. A building or buildings not exceeding2,500
squarefeet of floor spaceto be usedby any
combination of the following uses:
a. Fishing supplies and equipment.
b. Snowmobiling accessories.
c. Marine accessories.
d. General store.
e. Hardware store.
f. Convenience store with gas pumps.
g. Fast food restaurant, cafe, or coffee
shop.
h. Recreational rental equipment store.
i. Excavation business.
j. Landscaping business/ service.
k. Health care service.
1. Beauty shop.
m. Video store.
o. Post office.
p. Party supply.
q. Equipment sales and rental.
r. Appliance store.
s. Bank.
t. Exterminator.
u. Private mailing andpackaging store.
v. Bakery.
2. Expansion of a nonconforming use listed in
section A( 1)( a- v), existing as of 11/05/ 02,
the date this chapter was adopted, shall be
limited to 2, 500 square feet or 25 percent of
the size of the building as of said date,
whichever is greater.
3. A buildingor buildingsnotexceeding3,500
squarefeetof floor spaceto beusedby any
combination of the following uses:
a . Petand livestock supply.
b. Farm machinery salesandrepair.
4. Expansion of a nonconforming use listed in
section A( 3)( a- b), existing as of 11/05/02,
the date this chapter was adopted, shall be
limited to 3, 500 square feet of floor space
or 25 percent of the, size of the building as
of said date, whichever is greater.
B. Conditional Uses. The following usesand their
accessory uses are permitted subject to the
applicable provisions of this chapter and DCC
18. 116, 18. 124 and 18. 128:
1. A building or buildings not exceeding2,500
squarefeetof floor spaceto beusedby any
combination of the following uses:
a. Full service gas station with automobile
repair services.
b. Welding shop.
c. Mini - storage units
2. Expansion of a nonconforming use listed in
section B( 1)( a- c), existing as of 11/05/02,
the date this chapter was adopted, shall be
limited to 2, 500 square feet or 25 percent of
the size of the building as of said date,
whichever is greater.
C. Definitions. For the purposes of DCC
18.64.120, the following definitions shall apply:
1. Landscaping business/service: Includes
designing landscapes, site grading and
preparation, placing boulders, planting trees
and shrubbery, installing sod, installing
irrigationsystemsandequipment, installing
fencing, and landscape maintenance, but
does not include on- site cultivation of
plants or plant materials or any on- site retail
sales.
2. Health care service: A businessproviding
the diagnosis, treatment and care of
physical and/ or mental disease, injury
and/or disability, but not including a
Page 2 of 5 - EXHIBIT " A" to ORDINANCE NO. 2003- 080 ( 09/ 10/ 03)
EXHIBIT " A"
hospital facility or a nursing home as
defined in DCC 18. 04.
3. BeautyShop: A full service beauty salon
which would include haircuts, permanents,
washes, nails, etc., and the retail sales of
incidental beauty suppliestypical of any
beauty salon.
4. Mini - storage units: Self service mini -
storage units of various sizes from 5' x 10'
up to 12' x 24'.
5. Video store: The sale and rental of
videotapes, compact disc movies and audio
books.
6. Laundry and dry cleaners: Dry cleaners,
shirt laundry and laundromat with self-
service washers and dryers along with the
sale of detergents, bleaches, etc.
7. Post office: United States Postal Service
office including mail pick- up and
distribution.
8. Party supply: The sale and rental of party
supplies such as balloons, streamers,
costumes, dishes, linens and silverware.
9. Equipment sales and rental: The rental of
construction, home repair and maintenance
equipment such as ladders, mowers, saws,
gardening supplies, etc., and the sales of
related equipment.
10. Appliance store: The sale and service of
household appliances such as televisions,
ranges, refrigerators, etc.
11. Bank: Full service consumer bank for
checking, savings, loans, safety deposit
boxes, etc.
12. Exterminator: Exterminator of insects and
other pests such as rodents, spiders, etc.
13. Private mailing and packaging store:
Private mail boxes and packaging services,
which would include the holding and
distribution of mail, packing, mailing
supplies, FEDEX and UPS pick- up, and
FAX and copy machineavailability.
14. Bakery: The manufacture and sale of
bread, donuts and pastries.
15. Pet and livestock supplies: The sale of pet
supplies such as dog and cat food, collars,
grooming needs, shelters and some large
animal supplies such as hay, feeds and
grains.
Ord. 2002- 019 § 2, 2002; Ord. 97- 015 § 1, 1997;
Ord. 96- 046 § 1, 1996; Ord. 96- 023 § 1, 1996)
Section 18. 74. 027, Uses allowed in Rosland Rural
Commercial Zone.
A. Uses Permitted Outdift. Any use listed as a
usepermitted outright by DCC 18.74.020(A).
B. Uses Permitted subject to Site Plan Review.
The following usesand their accessoryusesare
permitted subject to the applicable provisions of
this chanter and DCC 18. 116 and 18. 124:
1. A building or buildings eachnot exceeding
2,500 square feet of floor space to be used
by any combination of the followigg uses
that serve the surrounding rural area or the
travel needs of persons passing through the
area:
a. Eating and drinking establishments.
b. Retail store, office and service
establishments.
2. Expansion of a nonconforming use existing
as of 11/ 05/ 2002 shall be limited to 2, 500
square feet or 25 percent of the size of the
building ( or portion of the building)
housing the nonconforming use as of said
date, whichever is Preater.
3. A building or buildings eachnot exceeding
3, 500 square feet of floor space to be used
by combination of the following uses:
a. Sales of agricultural or farm products.
b. Farm machinery salesandrepair.
c. Kennel or veterinary clinic.
d. Automobile service station, repair
garage, towing service, fuel storage and
fuel sales.
e. Public or semi- public use.
f. Residential use in the samebuilding as
a use permitted in this chapter.
g. Park or play rgound.
4. Expansion of a nonconforming use existing
as of 11/ 05/ 2002 shall be limited to 3,500
square feet each or 25 percent of the size of
the building ( or portion of the building)
housing the nonconforming; use as of said
date, whichever isegr ater.
C. Conditional Uses. The following uses and their
accessory uses are permitted subject to the
Page 3 of 5 - EXHIBIT " A" to ORDINANCE NO. 2003- 080 ( 09/ 10/ 03)
EXHIBIT " A"
applicable provisions of this chanter and DCC
18. 116. 18. 124 and 18. 128:
I. A building or buildingseachnot exceeding
3,500 square feet of floor space to be used
by any of the following uses:
a. Home occupation as defined in DCC
18. 04.
b. Utility facility.
c. Wireless telecommunications facilities
except . those facilities meeting the
requirements of DCC 18. 116. 250( A) or
d. Child care center.
e. Church.
f. School.
2. Recreational vehicle park.
Ord. 2003- 080, § 1, 2003)
18. 74. 030. Development standards.
A. Yard Standards.
1. Front Yard. The front yard shall be 20 feet
for apropertyfrontingona localroad. right-
of-way, 30 feet for a propertyfronting ona
collector right -0f --way and 80 feet for a
property fronting on an arterial right-of-
way.
2. Side Yard. A side yard shall be a minimum
of 10 feet, except a lot or parcel with a side
yard adjacent to land zoned exclusive farm
use or forest use shall have a minimum side
yard of 50 feet.
3. Rear Yard. The minimum rear yard shall be
20 feet, except a lot or parcel with a rear
yard adjacent to land zoned exclusive farm
use or forest use shall have a minimum side
yard of 50 feet.
B. Existing Residential and Commercial Lots.
On- site sewage disposal. For existing lots or
parcels, an applicant shall demonstrate that the
lot or parcel canmeet DEQ on-site sewage
disposal rules prior to approval of a site plan or
conditional use permit.
C. New Lot Requirements
1. Residential Uses.
a. The minimum lot size is one ( 1) acre.
b. On- site sewage disposal. For new lots
or parcels, an applicant shall
demonstrate that the lot or parcel can
meet DEQ on- site sewage disposal
rules prior to final approval of a
subdivision or partition.
c. Lot coverage for a dwelling and
accessorybuildings usedprimarily for
residential purposes, shall not exceed
twenty-five ( 25) percent of the total lot
area. Lot coverage for buildings used
primarily for commercial purposes shall
be determinedby spatialrequirements
for sewage disposal, landscaping,
parking, yard setbacks and any other
elements under site plan review.
2. Commercial and Public Uses.
a. The minimum lot size for a commercial
use served by an on- site septic system
and individual well or community
water system shall be the size necessary
to accommodate the use.
b. Each lot shall have a minimum width of
150 feet.
c. On- site sewage .disposal. For new lots
or parcels, an applicant shall
demonstrate that the lot or parcel can
meet DEQ on- site sewage disposal
rules prior to final approval of a
subdivision or partition:
d. for existing lots.
B. D. Solar Setback. The setback from the north
lot line shall meet the solar setback
requirements in DCC 18. 116. 180.
E. Building Code Setbacks. In addition to the
setbacksset forth herein, any greatersetbacks
requiredby theapplicablebuilding or structural
codesadoptedby the Stateof Oregon and/or the
County under DCC 15.04 shall be met.
DT. Lot Coverage. Except where otherwise
noted, the primary and accessory buildings
located on any lot or parcel shall not cover more
than 30 percent of the total lot or parcel.
E -G. Building Height. No building or structure
shall beerectedor enlargedto exceedthirty (30)
feet in height, except as allowed under DCC
18. 120. 040.
1. H. Off -StreetParkingandLoading. Off-street
parkingandloadingshallbeprovidedsubjectto
Page 4 of 5 - EXHIBIT " A" to ORDINANCE NO. 2003-080 (09/10/03)
EXHIBIT " A"
the provisions of DCC 18.116, Supplementary
Provisions.
GJ. Outdoor Lighting. All outdoor lighting on site
shall be installed in conformance with DCC
15. 10, Outdoor Lighting Control.
H—. Signs. All signs shall be constructed in
accordance with DCC 15. 08, Signs.
Ord. 2003- 080§ 1, 2003, Ord. 2002- 019 § 2, 2002)
18.74. 050. Maps.
Ord. 2002- 019 § 2, 2002)
Ord, 2003- 080 § 1, 2003)
Page 5 of 5 - EXHIBIT " A" to ORDINANCE NO. 2003- 080 ( 09/ 10/ 03)
W ... s, _ ,_., _ t. . N
EXHIBIT C"
DECISION OF BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FILE NUMBERS:
APPLICANT:
FOR DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
TA - 02- 13 and ZC- 02- 5
Karen Demaris
52427 River Pine Road
La Pine, Oregon 97739
REQUEST: The applicant requests approval of a plan amendment and zone
change from Rural Residential to Rural Commercial for eight lots
in theAhernAcresSubdivisionwestof Wickiup Junction. The
applicant also requests approval of text amendments to the
comprehensive plan and zoning ordinance to designate the subject
property as the Rosland Rural Commercial Zone and to add
supporting findings.
SUBJECT PROPERTY: Lots 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6. Block 2, Ahern Acres
Lots 1, 2 and 3, Block 4, Ahern Acres
STAFF REVIEWER: IJon Skidmore, Associate Planner
HEARINGS OFFICER: Karen Green
TheBoardof Commissionersmakesthe following findingsof fact andlaw to supportits
decision to approve the above -referenced land use applications:
I. PROCEDURE
Procedural Backeround
On December 27, 2002 the applicant submitted plan amendment and zone change applications to
rezone seven lots of land in the Ahern Acres Subdivision from RR -10 to Rural Commercial
RC). Uponfiling theapplication, theCountyrequiredtheapplicanttopostthesubjectproperty
with alanduseactionsign. Thesignwasposted, fortheperiodrequiredby code, onthesubject
property on a building in a location where the sign was plainly visible from BurgessRoad, the
arterial road that passesby the subjectproperty.
The County setthe hearing for March 4, 2003.before Hearings Officer Karen Green. Notice of
the hearing was provided, by mail, to owners of lots within 250 feet of the sevenlots. The
Countyalsopublishedanoticeof thehearingin TheBulletin, anewspaperof generalcirculation
within DeschutesCounty, on February 9, 2003.
On March 4, 2003 a public hearing was held. At the hearing, the Hearings Officer received
testimony and evidence about the proposed changes. The Hearings Officer questioned whether
one additional lot, Lot 6, Block 2, Ahern Acres should be included in the land use application
Page 1 of 10 — Decision of Board of Commissioners ( Demaris, TA-02- 131ZC- 02-5)
EXHIBIT C"
baseduponits commitmentto usefor utilities thatserveexistingcommercialdevelopmenton the
seven lots included in the land use application. In response, the applicant asked that the Hearings
Officer recommend that the Board of Commissioners include that lot as one of the properties to
be included in the proposed Rosland Rural Commercial area.
On April 15, 2003, Hearings Officer Green approved the application and recommended that the
Boardof CommissionersalsorezoneanddesignateLot 6, Block 2, AhernAcresfor RCzoning.
The Hearings Officer' s decision was mailed on April 16, 2003. In her decision, Hearings Officer
KarenGreendeterminedthattheposted, mailedandpublishednoticeprovidedby theCounty
complied with the requirements of DCC 22. 24. 030. That decision and the determination of
compliance with DCC 22.24.030 were not appealedby any party on or before the appeal
deadline of April 28, 2003.
Board Hearing Procedures
DCC 22.28.030, below, is theprocedurallaw thatprescribesthelegaleffectof theHearing
Officer' s decision:
DCC 22. 28. 030. Decision on plan amendments and zone changes.
A. Exceptassetforth herein, the HearingsOfficer or the Planning Commissionwhenacting
as the Hearings Body shall have authority to make decisions on all quasi-judicial zone
changes and plan amendments. Prior to becoming effective, all quasi- judicial plan
amendments and zone changes shall be adopted by the Board of County Commissioners.
FINDING: Hearings Officer Karen Green made the land use decision in this quasi- judicial zone
change and plan amendment application. The Board is adopting ordinances to implement Ms.
Green' s decision.
B. In considering all quasi- judicial zone changes and those quasi- judicial plan amendments
on which the HearingsOfficerhasauthorityto makea decision, the Boardof County
Commissionersshall, in the absenceof an appealor review initiated by the Board, adopt
the Hearings Officer' s decision. No argument or further testimonywill be taken by the
Board.
FINDING: The Hearings Officer has authority to make a final decision on all mattersbefore her
other than the inclusion of Lot 6, Block 2 in the zone changeand comprehensiveplan map
amendment request.
As Lot 6, Block 2 wasnot includedin the noticeof thehearingbeforethe
Hearings Officer, the Hearings Officer recommended inclusion of Lot 6, Block 2 upon the
assumptionthat a hearingwould be held on the matterby the Board of Commissioners. The
Board, therefore, provided notice andheld ahearing on this issueon June4, 2003.
The notice complied with ORS 215. 060 that requires that notice be published in a newspaper of
generalcirculationin LaPineor DeschutesCountya minimum of ten daysprior to the hearing.
TheCountyCommunityDevelopmentDepartmentpublishednoticeof thehearingin TheBulletin,
a newspaperof general circulation in DeschutesCounty. The notice appearedon May 18, 2003.
Page 2 of 10 — Decision of Board of Commissioners ( Demaris, TA- 02- 13/ZC- 02-5)
EXHIBIT C"
The Deschutes County Community Development Department also mailed. notice of the June 4,
2003public hearingto propertyownerswho ownedpropertywithin 260 feetof Lot 6, Block 2,
Ahern Acres on May 14, 2003.
On June4, 2003, the Boardof Commissionersheld a publichearingregardingMs. Green's
recommendation that Lot 6, Block 2, Ahern Acres be included in the Rosland Rural Commercial
zoning area. As requiredby this sectionof DCC 22.28.030, the scopeof thehearingbeforethe
Board was limited to the issueof whether to include Lot 6, Block 2, Ahern.Acres as a part of the
RoslandRuralCommercialzoningdistrictandplanmapamendments.
C. Plan amendmentsand zonechangesrequiringan exceptionto the goalsor concerning
lands designated for forest or agricultural useshall be heard de novo before the Board of
County Commissionerswithout the necessityof filing an appeal, regardless of the
determination of the HearingsOfficer or Planning Commission. Suchhearing beforethe
Board shall otherwise be subject to the same procedures as an appeal to the Board under
DCC Title 22.
FINDING: The Demaris property is in an acknowledged goal exception area. It is not
agricultural or forest land. The RC zoning requestedby Ms. Demaris is a rural zone that limits
uses to rural uses. It does not require a goal exception. As a result, it was appropriate for the
Board to allow its hearings officer to make the decision in this case for all issues other than the
appropriate zone and plan designation of Lot 6, Block 2, Ahern Acres. Hearings Officer Karen
Greenmadeanunchallengedfinding to that effect in her April 16, 2003 decision.
Procedural Obiections Raised at Board Hearing
At the June4, 2003 land usehearing, opponentWayne Roan arguedthat the location of the land
use posting was inadequate. He said the sign was not posted on Lot 6 and that the sign was not
readily visible from Lost Ponderosa, the road that Lot 6 adjoins.
The County law that governspostednotice is DCC 22.24.030.
DCC 22.24.030 Notice of hearing or administrative action.
B. Posted Notice.
1. Notice of a land use action application for which prior notice procedures are
chosen shall be posted on the subject property for at least 10 continuous days
prior to any date set for receipt of comments. Such notice shall, where
practicable, be visible from any adjacent public way.
DCC 22.24.030requiresthatnoticebepostedonthesubjectproperty. "Where
practicable," it is to bevisible from a_y adjacentpublic way. This codeprovisionis
ambiguous. There aretwo possible interpretations. First, the code may be read to require
that the sign, where practicable, be visible from all of the public ways that adjoin it.
Second, the codemay be readto say that the sign must, where practicable, be visible
Page 3 of 10 — Decision of Board of Commissioners (Demaris, TA-02-131ZC-02-5)
EXHIBIT C"
from oneof theadjoiningroadways. TheBoardfinds thatthesecondinterpretationis the
correctreadingaspracticaldifficultieswouldnotlogicallypreventapropertyownerfrom
postingpropertysothatit isvisiblefromoneadjoiningroadway. Postingpropertytobe
seenfrom all adjoining roadways is a situation that would often presentpractical
difficulties.
The "subjectproperty" is one large areathat consistsof eight adjacentplatted lots,
includingLot6, Block2, AhernAcres. Thesubjectpropertyadjoinsorisbisectedby
BurgessRoad, Lost PonderosaRoad and River Pine Road. Lost PonderosaRoad and
RiverPineRoadapproximatelyparalleleachotherandareseparatedbyover500feet.
Thismeansthata signpostedto faceeitherroadwould notbevisible from theother. As
aresult, it isnotpracticablenorisit possibletopostasignonthispropertythatisvisible
from all of theadjoiningroadways.
The applicant' s decision to post the sign where it was visible from BurgessRoad
provided good, actual notice of the application to the general public. In that location, it
wouldbevisibletoresidentswholiveonLostPonderosabecausetheymusttravelpast
thenoticeonBurgessRoadwhencomingandgoingfromthecenterofLaPine, Wickiup
Junctionor pointsonHighway97, includingtheCity of Bend. BurgessRoadis an
arterial road that carries a considerableamount of traffic, including traffic bound for
River Pine Road and Lost Ponderosa — both local streets located within the Ahern Acres
subdivision. As a result, even if there were a violation of the posted notice requirement,
Mr. Roanfailedto establishanyprejudiceoccurred. Mr. Roanwasnot prejudicedashe
knewthelegalissues, filed detailedwritten objectionsto applicationmaterialsandthe
staff report and testified at both land use hearings.
Additionally, nopartywasprejudicedby anyallegedirregularityin thepostednoticeas
theCountymailednoticetoownerswithin250feetof thesubjectpropertyandpublished
two notices regarding the public hearing in a newspaperof generalcirculation. ORS
215.060requiresonly thattheCountyhold ahearingandpublishnoticein anewspaper
of generalcirculationin theCountytendaysprior to thehearing. In thecaseof both
hearings, theCountyprovidedthenoticerequiredby ORS215.060.1
Decision by Board of Commissioners
On June11, 2003, theBoardof Commissionersvotedto includeLot 6, Block 2, AhernAcresas
apartof theRoslandRuralCommercialzoningarea.
II. HEARINGS OFFICER' S DECISION AND ADOPTION BY REFERENCE
TheBoardfindsthattheHearingsOfficer'sdecisionis final, aswritten, asto Lots2 through5,
Block 2, Ahern Acres and Lots 1 through 3, Block 4 Ahern Acres. No further findings are
required to support that decision. The fact that the decision was not appealedmeansthat the
1ORS215.431authorizestheCountytoallowitshearingsofficertoholdtherequiredhearingandmakethe
decisiononthislanduseapplication. ThiswastheprocedureusedbytheCountyforthetextamendmentstothe
zoningordinanceandcomprehensiveplanandthemapamendmentsto thecomprehensiveplanandzoningmaps.
Page 4 of 10 — Decision of Board of Commissioners (Demaris, TA-02-13/ZC-02-5)
EXHIBIT C"
Board must do the following: ( a) amend the comprehensive plan to recognize the Rosland Rural
Commercial center; and (b) amendthe text of the County' s zoning ordinance to createthe
RoslandRuralCommercialzoningdistrict; and (c) amendtheDeschutesCountycomprehensive
plan map and zoning maps to designate Lots 2 through 5, Block 2, Ahern Acres and Lots 1
through 3, Block 4, Ahern Acres as Rosland Rural Commercial.
The Board finds that the findings in the Hearings Officer' s decision also support inclusion of Lot
6, Block 2, AhernAcresin theRoslandRuralCommercialarea. As aresult, theBoardhereby.
adopts that report as findings of the Board to support approval of the zone and comprehensive
planmapchangefor Lot 6, Block2, AhernAcres. A copyof thatdecisionismarkedExhibitD,
attachedhereto and incorporated by referenceherein.
III. FINDINGS REGARDING HEARING TESTIMONY AND EVIDENCE RE LOT 6
TheBoardhasconsideredtheevidencein therecordof TA-02-13/ZC-02-5, includingbut not
limited to thefindingsandlegalconclusionsof theCounty'sHearings. Officer in Exhibit D and
all evidencepresentedto it at its hearing on June4, 2003. Based on the evidence, the Board
makes the following supplemental findings of fact:
DCC Section 18.136.020, Rezoning Standards
The applicant for a quasi-judicial rezoning must establishthat the public interest is best served
by rezoningtheproperty. Factorsto bedemonstratedby theapplicantare:
A. That the change conforms with the Comprehensive Plan, and the change is
consistent with the plan' s introductory statement and goals.
FINDINGS: The Rural Commercial zoning is consistentwith the Rural Commercial plan
designation approved for this and adjoining properties in this land useaction. The findings in
Exhibit D demonstrate that a Rural Commercial plan designation is appropriate for Lot 6, Block
2, aswell asother adjacentlots owned by Ms. Demaris.
The changeis also consistentwith the introductory statementof the comprehensiveplan. That
statement indicates land use decisions should be made after adequate consideration of
alternatives] or consequencesfollowing theorderlyprocessestablishedby thecounty'splanand
ordinance. TheBoardfinds theapplicant'sproposalis consistentwith theplan'sintroductory
statementbecausetheprocesscontemplatedin theplanisbeingusedto evaluatetheapplicant's
proposal, and the proposed zone change can occur only after this process has been completed.
The alternatives and consequencesof leaving the property zonedRural Residential have been
consideredby the Board. The retention of RR zoning would have actedas a disincentive to
proper stewardshipof the property. Even small changesof benefit to the public, like the paving
of aparkingareaon Lot 6 to serveexistingcommercialdevelopmenton adjoininglotsin theRC
zone would require County land use approval.
Page 5 of 10 — Decision of Board of Commissioners ( Demaris, TA- 02- 131ZC-02-5)
EXHIBIT C"
Thepublicinterestwould beservedby rezoning. Lot 6, Block 2 is currentlydevotedto Rural
CommercialusebyitsdevelopmentwithwellsthatservecommercialusesonadjoiningDemaris
lots that arebeing zoned Rural Commercial. This change will make it clear that the use of Lot
6, Block 2 for wells to servecommercialusesonadjoiningRC zonedpropertyis legal, can
continueandcanbealteredwithoutneedfor Countyapprovalof anapplicationto altera
nonconforminguse. As thelimited commercialuseof this propertyprovidesa serviceof benefit
to many arearesidentsand reducesvehicle trip lengths, its continuation is in the public interest.
RC zoning will allow appropriate future rural commercial development to occur and to serve the
largesurroundingruralpopulation.
B. That the changein classificationfor the subjectproperty is consistentwith the
purpose and intent of the proposed zone classification.
FINDINGS: The purpose of the RC Zone is to establish standards and review procedures for
development of rural commercial usesoutside of unincorporated communities andurban growth
boundaries. Approvalof thezonechangewill applytheRCZoneto thepropertyandwill limit
futurecommercialdevelopmentto arural, ratherthanurbanlevel, asintendedbytheRural
Commercial policies of the comprehensive plan.
At the hearing before the County Hearings Officer, opponent Wayne Roan arguedthe applicant' s
proposalisnotconsistentwiththepurposeof theRCZonebecausethelotsthatmakeupthe
subject property are too small for commercial development. The inclusion of Lot 6 in Block 2
makeslots adjacentto BurgessRoaddeeper, makingit easierfor theapplicantto meettheLM
zoning district and other setbacks if and when new development is proposed for the subject
property and adjoining RC zone lots.
Mr. Roan arguedthat the BurgessRoad lots were too shallow to allow redevelopment in
compliance with LM zone setbackrequirementsthat aremeasuredfrom BurgessRoad.2 The
addition of Lot 6, Block 2 to the Rosland RC district will make it easier for the applicant or a
futureownertositenewbuildingsfurtherbackfromtheroadwayandcomplywiththeLM
zoning district.
The addition of Lot 6, Block 2, Ahern Acres to the RC zone will allow the applicant to continue
to useLot 6 for wells to servetheexistingcommercialdevelopmentontheBlock 2 lots. That
useis ahistoricalusethathasnotdisruptedtheneighborhood. Any changein thecharacterof
this historical usewill require County land use approval. In that process, the rights and concerns
of neighbors will be addressedby the County when it reviews the development proposed.
Additionally, thepublic'sinterestswill beprotectedby theLM CombiningZonesiting and
landscape regulations.
C. That changingthe zoningwill presentlyservethe public health, safetyand welfare
considering the following factors:
2TheexistingdevelopmentoccurredpriortotheadoptionoftheLMzoningdistrictandwasnotgovernedbyits
setback requirements.
Page 6 of 10 — Decision of Board of Commissioners (Demaris, TA-02-13/ZC-02-5)
EXHIBIT C"
1. The availability and efficiency of providing necessarypublic servicesand
facilities.
FINDINGS: The findings in Exhibit D establish that there are adequate public services
andfacilities availableto servethesubjectpropertyonceit is zonedRC.
2. The impacts on surrounding land use will be consistent with the specific
goals and policies contained within the Comprehensive Plan.
FINDINGS: The impacts of applyingRC zoning on surroundingland use will be
minimal and consistent with the goals and policies contained in the Plan and addressed in
Exhibit D. The subject property is already a part of an existing rural commercial
development. The RC zoning may allow some increase in the intensity of the
commercialusebut saidchangesmustcomplywith Countysiteplan review criteriathat
mitigate impacts on neighbors. The evidence shows that redevelopment of the subject
property will be constrainedby the needto be servedby septic systems, by the lack of a
public or community water service andby issueswith the water table in the La Pine area.
The Board finds that these issues have not precluded the development that exists on the
property and that the proposed changes will allow the applicant to continue these uses.
These factors will, however, limit future development so that it, like the existing
commercial uses on adjoining properties, will remain rural in character.
Some neighbors expressed concern that the addition of Lot 6 to the Rosland RC district
would increase traffic on Lost Ponderosa north of Lot 6, Block 2, Ahern Acres. They
claim commercial traffic will drive through Ahern Acres. One opponent claimed that
traffic associated with the fitness salon on River Pine increased traffic through the
neighborhood. The applicant testified that new homes have been built in the
neighborhood, thereby increasing traffic. The Board finds that the applicant' s position
more credible.
Maps in the record show that Ahern Acres has two outlets only. Both outlets are on
Burgess Road. One is Lost Ponderosa Road and the other is River Pine Road. It is
possible for motorists to drive north in the subdivision but they must, ultimately, loop
back to the south and return to Burgess Road. This loop requiresa greatdealof out -of -
direction travel. No reason was provided by opponents to explain why motorists might
use this route rather than traveling directly south to reach Burgess Road. Additionally,
the County code requires site plan review of any development of RC zoned property. At
that time, the County would be able to determine and control accessesto minimize
development impacts on neighbors. Access limits might include a prohibition against
access to Lost Ponderosa Road if such a restriction is deemed appropriate to protect the
neighbors to the north of Lot 6, Block 2, Ahern Acres.
D. That there has been a change in circumstances since the property was last zoned, or
a mistake was made in the zoning of the property in question.
Page 7 of 10 — Decision of Board of Commissioners ( Demaris, TA- 02- 131ZC-02-5)
EXHIBIT C"
FINDINGS: The findings in Exhibit D demonstratecompliance with this approval criterion.
Title 23 of the DeschutesCountyCode, the DeschutesCountyYear 2000Comprehensive
Plan
Chapter 23. 36, Rural Development
Goals:
1. To preserve and enhance the open spaces, rural character, scenic values and natural
resources of the county.
2. To guide the location and design of rural development so as to minimize the public
costsof facilities and services, to avoid unnecessaryexpansionof serviceboundaries,
and to preserveand enhancethe safetyand viability of rural land uses.
3. To providefor thepossiblelongterm expansionof urbanareaswhileprotectingthe
distinction betweenurban (urbanizing) land and rural lands.
FINDINGS: The proposedplan amendmentrecognizesthe history and existenceof rural
commercialdevelopmenton thesubjectproperty. Thecurrentusesof thepropertyareof low
intensity. The intensity of futureuseswill be limited by septicfeasibility, lot sizes, minimum
setbacks and the restrictions of the RC zoning district. The wells on Lot 6, Block 2 provide
water for commercialuses on adjoining lots. This is the only commercialuse presently
conducted on this lot.
Allowingcommercialdevelopmentof apropertythatisalreadyusedasawellsiteforadjoining
commercialuseshelpspreserveandenhanceopenspacesby providing neededrural commercial
services where they already exist, rather than on other property that has not been developed.
County landscapemanagementsubzone criteria will assurethat the scenic qualities of Burgess
Road are not harmed.
The subjectpropertyis centrallylocatedto servea largerural population. It is located near a
rural arterial road — a location where traffic is expected. This location minimizes the public costs
of providing needed services as an existing major road provides excellent access to the RC
center... No new roads are required. For thesereasons, the applicant' s proposal is consistentwith
these plan policies.
IV. DECISION TO AMEND THE TEXT OF TITLE 23, THE DESCHUTES COUNTY
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN TO RECOGNIZE AND SUPPORT ADOPTION OF
THE ROSLAND RURAL COMMERCIAL CENTER
DCC 22.28.030makestheExhibit D HearingsOfficer'sdecisionbindingasto all issuesother
thantheissueof whethertoincludeLot6, Block2, AhernAcresin theRCzoningdistrict.
3
The
3TheissueofwhethertoincludeLot6, Block2, AhernAcresintheRCzoningdistrictincludesthedecision
whether to amend the comprehensive plan maps to designate the property " Rosland Rural Commercial Center."
Page 8 of 10 — Decision of Board of Commissioners (Demaris, TA-02-131ZC-02-S)
EXHIBIT C"
Boardof Commissioners, therefore, findsthatthetext of Title 23, theDeschutesCounty
ComprehensivePlan, shouldbeamendedasprovidedin DeschutesCountyOrdinanceNo. 2003-
079. Additionally, the Board finds that Lot 6, Block 2, Ahern Acres should be included in the
rural commercial center. The addition of this lot changes the size of the Rosland Commercial
areafrom approximately4.07 acresto approximately4.5 acres. Thetext of Title 23 adoptedin
the ordinance that implements the approved text amendment shall be revised to indicate that the
areais approximately 4.5 acresin size.
V. DECISION TO CREATE THE ROSLAND RURAL COMMERCIAL CENTER
ZONING DISTRICT AND ADOPT REGULATIONS FOR SAID ZONING
DISTRICT
As DCC 22.28.030 makesthe Exhibit D HearingsOfficer' s decision binding asto all issues
otherthantheissueof whetherto includeLot 6, Block2, AhernAcresin theRCzoningdistrict,
theBoardof Commissionersherebyfindsthatthetextof Title 18, theDeschutesCountyZoning
Ordinance, shouldbeamendedfor all lots otherthanasprovidedin DeschutesCountyOrdinance
No. 2003- 080.
VI. DECISION TO AMEND THE DESCHUTES COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN MAPS TO DESIGNATE THE SUBJECT PROPERTY AS THE ROSLAND
RURAL COMMERCIAL CENTER
As DCC22.28.030makestheExhibit D HearingsOfficer's decisionbindingasto all issues
other than the issue of whether to include Lot 6, Block 2, Ahern Acres in the RC zoning district,
the Board of Commissioners hereby finds that the comprehensiveplan maps of Deschutes
County should be amendedto designatethe subjectproperty, other than Lot 6, Block 2 asthe
RoslandRuralCommercialCenter, in themannerdescribedin DeschutesCountyOrdinanceNo.
2003- 079.
As the findings contained in this Decision and Exhibit D support inclusion of Lot 6, Block 2,
Ahern Acres in the RC zoning district, the Board finds that the comprehensive plan maps of
Deschutes County should be amended to designate Lot 6, Block 2, Ahern Acres as "Rosland
Rural Commercial Center."
VII. DECISION TO AMEND TITLE 18, THE DESCHUTES COUNTY ZONING
ORDINANCE, TO APPLY THE ROSLAND RURAL COMMERCIAL CENTER
ZONING DISTRICT TO THE SUBJECT PROPERTY.
As DCC 22.28.030 makesthe Exhibit D Hearings Officer' s decision binding asto all issues
otherthantheissueof whetherto includeLot 6, Block2, AhernAcresin theRCzoningdistrict,
the Board of Commissionershereby finds that the DeschutesCounty zoning map should be
amendedto designatethe subjectproperty, other than Lot 6, Block 2 asthe Rosland Rural
Commercial Center, in the manner describedin DeschutesCounty Ordinance No. 2003-080.
Both actions are required to apply Rural Commercial zoning to Lot 6. Where the act of rezoning Lot 6 is discussed
in this decision, it refers to both actions.
Page 9 of 10 — Decision of Board of Commissioners (Demaris, TA-02-131ZC-02-5)
EXHIBIT C"
As the findings contained in this Decision and Exhibit D support inclusion of Lot 6, Block 2,
AhernAcresin theRCzoningdistrict, theBoardfindsthattheDeschutesCountyzoningmap
should be amendedto designateLot 6, Block 2, Ahern Acres as "Rosland Rural Commercial
Center."
VIII. IMPLEMENTING ORDINANCES
TheBoard's decisionandthedecisionof CountyHearingsOfficer KarenGreenareimplemented
by the ordinancesreferencedherein.
DATED THIS DAY OF . 2003
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
Dennis Luke, Chair
Page 10 of 10 — Decision of Board of Commissioners (Demaris, TA-02-13/ZC-02-5)
EXHIBIT " D"
FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATION OF
DESCHUTES COUNTY HEARINGS OFFICER
FILE NUMBERS: TA - 02- 13 and ZC- 02- 5
APPLICANT: Karen Demaris
52427 River Pine Road
La Pine, Oregon 97739
ATTORNEY: Liz Fancher
644 N.W. Broadway
Bend, Oregon 97701
Attorney for Applicant
REQUEST: The applicant requests approval of a plan amendment and zone
change from Rural Residential to Rural Commercial for eight lots
in the Ahern Acres Subdivisionwest of Wickiup Junction. The
applicant also requests approval of text amendments to the
comprehensive plan and zoning ordinance to designate the subject
property as the Rosland Rural Commercial Zone and to add
supporting findings.
STAFF REVIEWER: Jon Skidmore, Associate Planner
HEARING DATE: March 4, 2003
RECORD CLOSED: March 28, 2003
I. APPLICABLE STANDARDS AND CRITERIA:
A. Title 18of the DeschutesCounty Code, the DeschutesCounty Zoning Ordinance
1. Chapter 18.74, Rural Commercial Zone
Section 18. 74. 010, Purpose
2. Chapter 18. 136, Amendments
Section 18. 136. 010, Amendments
Section18.136.020, RezoningStandards
B. Title 22 of the Deschutes County Code, the Development Procedures Ordinance
1. Chapter 22. 08, General Provisions
Section 22. 08. 005, Preapplication Conference
Section 22. 08. 010, Application Requirements
2. Chapter 22. 20, Review of Land Use Action Applications
Section 22. 20. 010, Action on Land Use Action Applications
3. Chapter 22. 24, Land Use Action Hearings
Demaris
TA- 02- 13/ ZC- 03- 5
Section 22.24.030, Notice of Hearing or Administrative Action
4. Chapter 22. 28, Land Use Action Decisions
Section 22. 28.030, Decision on Plan Amendments and Zone Changes
C. Title 23 of the DeschutesCounty Code, the ComprehensivePlan
1. Chapter 23. 40, Unincorporated Communities
D. Oregon Administrative Rules, Chapter 660
1. Division 12, Transportation Planning
2. Division 22, Unincorporated Communities
IL FINDINGS OF FACT:
A. Location: The subject property consists of Lots 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 in Block 2, and Lots 1, 2
and3 in Block 4, of the AhernAcres Subdivisionlocatedwest of Wickiup Junctionand
north of La Pine. The subject property also is identified as Tax lots 6700, 6900, 7000,
7200, 7300, 7400, 7500and7600onDeschutesCountyAssessor'sMap21-10-35C.
The original application did not include Lot 6 in Block 2 of Ahern Acres (Tax Lot 6700).
At thepublic hearing, the HearingsOfficer askedtheapplicantwhy shehadnot included
Lot 6 in her applicationssinceit abutsthesubjectpropertyandis developedwith a well
serving Lots 2 and 4 in Block 2 which are included in the application. In response, in her
March 17, 2003, submissionthe applicant's attorneyrequestedthat Lot 6 in Block 2 be
added to the applications because its inclusion would facilitate development of the
abutting Lots 1, 2 and 3 in Block 2. She also argued the failure to give notice that Lot 6
would be included in the plan amendment and zone change applications could be cured
by new notice given beforethe DeschutesCounty Board of Commissionersholds the
requiredhearingto adoptmy decision. Theapplicant's attorneystatedcountyplanning
staff had no objection to the inclusion of Lot 6 in the applications.
The Hearings Officer finds that under the circumstances presented here, it is appropriate
to include in this decision Lot 6 in Block 2. I also find sufficient notice of this change
will be provided both through my decision and in the notice required prior to the public
hearing before the board of commissioners.
B. Zoning and Plan Designation: Thesubjectpropertyis zonedRuralResidential (RR -10)
andis designatedRuralResidentialExceptionAreaonthecomprehensiveplanmap.
C. Site Description: The eight tax lots that comprise the subject property total
approximately 4.5 acres in size and are developed as follows:
1. Tax Lot 6700hasa shed, well houseandwells servingTax Lots7400and7600.
2. Tax Lot 6900hasaduplex, parkingareaandsepticdrainfield.
Demaris
TA- 03- 13/ ZC- 02- 5
3. Tax Lot 7000hasanoverflow parkingarea, anelectricmeteranda waterline to
serve the duplex on Tax Lot 6900.
4. Tax Lot 7200 has a commercial building developed as a small gym, a carport,
parking area, sign, well and septic drainfield.
5. Tax Lot 7300 has a sign frame.
6. Tax Lot 7400 has two commercial buildings one of which is developed with a
barber shop, a parking area, water lines and septic tank.
7. Tax Lot 7500 has a parking area and water lines.
8. Tax Lot 7600 has a commercial building currently developed as Mountain
Country Homes, a shed, parking area, septic tank andwater lines.
The topographyof the subjectpropertygenerallyis level with vegetationconsistingof
nativetrees, brushandgrassesaswell asintroducedlandscaping. Half of thetax lots take
access from Burgess Road and the other half from River Pine Road. The record indicates
Burgess Road is classified as a rural arterial road and River Pine Road is classified as a
rural local road.
D. Surrounding Zoning and Land Uses: Property to the north is zoned RR -10 and consists
of remainderof the Ahern Acres Subdivisiondevelopedwith residentialuses. To the
southdirectly acrossBurgessRoad from the subjectpropertyis land zonedExclusive
Farm Use -La Pine Subzone ( EFU- La Pine) and developed with a seasonal campground.
To the east along Burgess Road is the Little Deschutes River and the associated Flood
Plain Zone. Further east on the north side of Burgess Road is land zoned EFU- La Pine.
Further east on the south side of Burgess Road is land zoned RR -10 and developed with
residential uses. Further to the eastis the Wickiup Junction Planning Area developedwith
several commercial uses. To the west of the subject property is land zoned RR -10 and
developed with residential uses.
E. Procedural History: The record indicates the Ahern Acres Subdivision was recorded in
1961 and was platted by the applicant' s mother, Betty Ahern. When the subdivision was
platted deed restrictions were recorded that designated Lots 1 through 7 in Block 2 and
Lots 1through4 in Block 4 for "multiple residences, light commercialor light industry."
Someof thesubjectlots weredevelopedwith commercialuses. Whenthecountyadopted
PL -15 andthe accompanyingzoningmapsin 1979, the subjectpropertywasdesignated
and zoned RR -10 because it was found to be committed to non -resource uses. However,
the property was not designated or zoned Rural Service Center ( RSC) which would have
allowed commercial uses. Consequently, the commercial uses that were on the subject
propertyin 1979becamenonconforminguses.
In 2002, the county adoptedamendmentsto Titles 18 and23 of the DeschutesCounty
Code authorizing the creation of the Rural Commercial ( RC) Zone and the designation of
rural commercial areas that would allow commercial uses outside the boundaries of both
unincorporated communities and rural service centers. The applicant submitted the
subject plan amendment and zone change applications from RR - 10 to RC on December
27, 2002, and they were deemed complete on January 27, 2003. Under ORS 215.427,
plan amendmentsanddependentzonechangesarenot subjectto the 150 -day period for
issuance of a final local land use decision.
Demaris
TA- 03- 13/ ZC- 02- 5
A publichearingon theapplicationswasheld on March4, 2003. At the hearingthe
HearingsOfficerreceivedtestimonyandevidenceandestablishedthefollowingschedule
for thesubmissionof post -hearingevidenceandargument:
March 18 -- staff comments, opponents' evidence and applicant' s response to evidence
submitted at the public hearing
March 25 — evidencein responseto staff commentsand post -hearing evidence
submitted by March 18
April 1 — applicant' s final arguments
By a letterdatedMarch 28, 2003, the applicantwaivedherright to file final arguments,
and the record closed on that date.
F.
Proposal: The applicantproposesto changethe plan designationandzoningof the
subject property from RR -10 to RC. The proposal would amend the comprehensiveplan
map as well as the text of the plan and zoning ordinance to create the Rosland Rural
Commercial Zone. The applicant concluded, and the Hearings Officer concurs, that a
goal exception is not required for the proposedplan amendmentand zone changebecause
the proposed RC Zone is a rural zone and therefore would not create " urban"
developmentoutsideanunincorporatedcommunity.
G. Public/Private Agency Comments: The county sentwritten notice of the applicant's
proposal to a number of public and private agencies and received responses from the
Deschutes County Road Department, Environmental Health Division and Code
Enforcement. In addition, the county provided written notice to the Department of Land
Conservation and Development (DLCD) asrequired for all plan amendments. DLCD did
not comment on the applicant' s proposal.
H. Public Notice and Comments: The county mailed individual written notice of the
applicant'sproposalandthepublichearingto theownersof recordof all propertylocated
within 250feetof the subjectproperty. In addition, noticeof thepublichearingwas
publishedin the "BendBulletin" newspaper, andthe subjectpropertywaspostedwith a
noticeofproposedlanduseactionsign. Thecountydidnotreceiveanylettersin response
to thesenotices. However, twomembersof thepublictestifiedatthepublichearing. In
addition, one letter in support of the application, and one letter and a petition with 54
signaturesin oppositionto theapplication, weresubmittedintotherecordfollowingthe
public hearing.
OpponentWayneRoantestifiedthattheapplicant's postingof the proposedlanduse
action sign in the window of one of the buildings on the subjectproperty did not
constituteadequatenoticebecausethat signlocationdid not provide adequatevisibility.
1TheapplicantarguestheHearingsOfficershouldgivelittleif anyweighttothepetitioninoppositionto
her proposalbecausethe signaturesmayhavebeenobtainedby falsepretenses. In supportof her
argument, the applicant submitted two letters to that effect from persons who signed the petition. The
HearingsOfficer findsthis evidence, coupledwith thevery broadandunfocusedlanguageof thepetition,
substantiallydiminishesthecredibility andweightof this document.
Demaris
TA- 03- 13/ ZC- 02- 5
However, Mr. Roan did not offer any evidence that the placement of the notice deprived
interestedpartiesof theopportunityto participatein theseproceedings.
III. CONCLUSIONS OF LAW:
PROCEDURES
A. Title 22 of the Deschutes County Code, the Development Procedures Ordinance
1. Chapter 22. 08, General Provisions
a. Section 22. 08. 005, Pre - application Conference
FINDINGS: TheStaffReportstatestheapplicantconferredwith membersof countyplanning
staff prior to submitting the subject applications.
b. Section 22. 08. 020, Acceptance of Application
Development action and land use action applications shall not be
accepted until the planning director has determined that ( 1) the
requirements of DCC22. 08. 010 have been met and ( 2) the application
is complete or application is deemed to be complete under state law.
FINDINGS: The Staff Report states, and the Hearings Officer concurs, that the applicant
submitted a complete application.
2. Chapter 22. 20, Review of Land Use Action Applications
a. Section 22.20.010, Action on Land Use Action Applications
A) Except for comprehensive plan amendments and zone changes
and other instances where a hearing is required by state law or
by other ordinance provisions, the Planning Director may
decide upon a land use action application administratively
either with prior notice, as prescribed under DCC 22. 20. 020 or
without prior notice, as prescribed under DCC 22. 20. 030 or he
may refer the application to the Hearings Body for hearing.
The Planning Director shall take such action within 30 days of
the date the application is accepted or deemed accepted as
complete. This time limit may be waved at the option of the
applicant.
FINDINGS: A public hearing on the subject applications was held on March 4, 2003. The
applicationsarequasi-judicial ratherthanlegislativebecausethey affectonly eighttax lots and
one property owner. For these reasons, the Hearings Officer finds the requirements of this
section have been met.
Demaris
TA- 03- 13/ ZC- 02- 5
3. Chapter 22.24, Land Use Action Hearings
a. Section22.24.030, Notice of Hearing or Administrative Action
FINDINGS: Asdiscussedabove, theownersof recordof all propertylocatedwithin250feetof
the subject property received individual written notice of the applicant' s proposal and the public
hearing. In addition, the subjectpropertywaspostedwith a notice of land useactionsign and
notice of the public hearing was published in a newspaper of general circulation. For these
reasons, the Hearings Officer finds the requirements of this section have been met.
4. Chapter 22. 28, Land Use Action Decisions
A. Except as set forth herein, the Hearings Officer or the Planning
CommissionwhenactingastheHearingsBodyshallhaveauthorityto
make decisions on all quasi- judicial zone changes and plan
amendments. Prior to becoming effective, all quasi- judicial plan
amendments and zone changes shall be adopted by the Board of
County Commissioners.
B. In considering all quasi- judicial zone changes and those quasi- judicial
plan amendments on which the Hearings Officer has authority to
make a decision, the Board of County Commissioners shall, in the
absence of an appeal or review initiated by the Board, adopt the
Hearings Officer' s decision. No argument or further testimony will be
taken by the board.
FINDINGS: The HearingsOfficer finds my findings andrecommendationmaybe appealedto
the Board of County Commissioners. In the absenceof an appealthe board must adoptmy
decision approving the proposedplan amendmentandzone change.
ZONE CHANGE
B. Title 18of theDeschutesCountyCode, theDeschutesCountyZoningOrdinance
1. Chapter 18. 74, Rural Commercial Zone
a. Section 18. 74. 010, Purpose
The purpose of this chapter is to establish standards and review
procedures for development in the Rural Commercial Zone. The
Rural Commercial ( RC) zone provisions implement the
comprehensive plan policies for rural commercial development and
associated uses outside of unincorporated communities and urban
growth boundaries.
FINDINGS: The subjectpropertyis locatedoutsideanycity limits andtheboundariesof the La
Demaris
TA- 03- 13/ ZC- 02- 5
Pineunincorporatedcommunity. TheapplicantproposestorezonethesubjectpropertyfromRR -
10 to RC to reflectthe currentcommercialuseson the propertyandto allow futurerural
commercialdevelopmentconsistentwith thestandardsin the RC Zone. Therefore, the Hearings
Officer finds the applicant' s proposal is consistentwith the purposeof the RC Zone.
2. Chapter 18. 136, Amendments
a. Section 18. 136. 010, Amendments
DCC Title 18 may be amended as set forth in DCC 18.136. The
procedures for text or legislative map changes shall be as set forth in
DCC 22.12. A requestby a property ownerfor a quasi-judicial map
amendment shall be accomplished by filing an application on forms
provided by the Planning Department and shall be subject to
applicable procedures of DCC Title 22.
FINDINGS: Theapplicantsubmittedanapplicationfor a quasi-judicial comprehensiveplantext
and map amendment .and zone changeby filing the requiredcounty applicationforms and
submitting the required fees. The applicant' s compliance with the provisions of Title -22 of the
DeschutesCounty Code is discussedin the findings above.
b. Section18.136.020, RezoningStandards
The applicant for a quasi-judicial rezoning must establish that the
public interest is best servedby rezoning the property. Factors to be
demonstrated by the applicant are:
A. That the change conforms with the Comprehensive Plan, and
the changeis consistentwith the plan's introductory statement
and goals.
FINDINGS: The HearingsOfficer finds this paragraphestablishesthreezonechangeapproval
criteria, discussed in the findings below.
1. Conformancewith ComprehensivePlan. Thesubjectpropertycurrentlyis designatedand
zonedrural residential. As discussedabove, the subjectpropertyhasbeendevelopedwith rural
commercialusessincebeforethe county adoptedPL -15 in 1979. The applicantsubmittedan
application to rezone the subject property from RR -10 to RC and a plan amendmentto createthe
RoslandRuralCommercialZoneto conformtheproperty'szoningto its plandesignation.
2. Consistent with Plan's Introductory Statement. The introductory statement of the
comprehensiveplan indicates land use decisions should be made after adequateconsideration of
alternative[s] orconsequencesfollowingtheorderlyprocessestablishedby thecounty'splanand
ordinance. The Hearings Officer finds the applicant' s proposal is consistent with the plan' s
introductorystatementbecausetheprocesscontemplatedin theplanisbeingusedtoevaluatethe
applicant' s proposal, and the proposed zone change can occur only after this process has been
Demaris
TA- 03- 13/ ZC- 02- 5
completed.
3. PublicInterest. Theapplicantarguesthepublicinterestwouldbeservedby rezoningthe
subjectpropertyfromRR -10toRCforthreereasons. First, thepropertyhasbeendevelopedwith
rural commercial uses since prior to the county' s adoption of PL -15 and the subject property' s
RR -10 zoning. Second, the RC zoningwill eliminatethe needfor the applicantandsubsequent
property owners to verify the existing non -conforming usesin order to authorize the commercial
usesthat havebeenon the subjectpropertyfor decades. Third, the RC zoningwill allow
appropriatefuturecommercialdevelopmenttoservethelargesurroundingruralpopulation.
OpponentWayneRoanarguedin his oralandwrittentestimonythattheapplicantdid notmeet
herburdenof provingthepublic interestwould be servedby theproposedzonechangebecause
shefailedtoshowaneedforadditionalcommercial -zonedlandintheLaPine/WickiupJunction
area. Mr. Roan assertedthere are 20-25 area lots available for commercial development. The
Hearings Officer finds Mr. Roan's argument without merit. The approval criteria for a zone
change do not include a requirement that the applicant demonstrate a need for the proposed
zoning. Moreover, if additionalparcelswouldqualifyfor RC zoning, nothingin this decision
will prevent the owners of thoseparcels from applying for a zone change.
For the foregoing reasons the Hearings Officer finds the applicant' s proposal satisfies the
approval criteria in this paragraph.
B: That the change in classification for the subject property is
consistent with the purpose and intent of the proposed zone
classification.
FINDINGS: As discussed above, the purpose of the RC Zone is to establish standards and
review procedures for development of rural commercial uses outside of unincorporated
communities and urban growth boundaries. The Hearings Officer finds the applicant' s proposal
is consistentwith thispurposebecausethesubjectpropertyis locatedoutsideanyurbangrowth
boundaryandunincorporatedcommunity, andhasfor decadesbeendevelopedwiththevery
types of commercial usesintended to serve surrounding rural residents.
Opponent Wayne Roan arguesthe applicant' s proposal is not consistent with the purpose of the
RC Zone becausethe lots that make up the subjectproperty are too small for commercial
development. As discussedabove, theapplicantdoesnotproposeanynewdevelopmentonthe
subject property in conjunction with the zone change application. Rather, she seeks to rezone the
subjectpropertyto reflect its historic and currentdevelopmentwith commercialuses. In any
event, the HearingsOfficer finds the lots the applicanthas proposedfor rezoning to RC —
particularly with the inclusion of Lot 6 in Block 2 -- are large enough to allow future commercial
developmentwithin requiredminimum setbackseitherby themselvesor in conjunctionwith
otherlots comprisingthesubjectproperty.
C. That changing the zoning will presently serve the public
health, safetyand welfare consideringthe following factors:
1. The availability and efficiency of providing necessary
Demaris
TA- 03- 13/ ZC- 02- 5
public services and facilities.
FINDINGS: TheHearingsOfficer finds necessarypublic servicesandfacilities for commercial
developmenton the subjectpropertyconsistof sewer, water, transportationfacilities, andpolice
andfire protection. Eachof theseis discussedseparatelyin thefindingsbelow.
1. SewageDisposal. Thesubjectpropertyis locatedoutsidetheboundariesof theareaservedby
the La Pinesewersystem, andthereforeexistingcommercialdevelopmentis servedby on-site
septic systems. Opponent Wayne Roan argues no commercial development should be located
outside La Pine because sewer should be required for commercial uses. The Hearings Officer
findstheRC Zonedoesnotrequirethatrural commercialusesbe servedby a sewersystem. Mr.
Roanalsoassertsthe countydid not issuepermitsfor the existingsepticsystems, andtherefore
the applicant failed to establish these systems are adequate to provide sewage treatment for
existingcommercialdevelopment. In response, theapplicantsubmittedevidenceconcerningthe
status of these systems in her March 25, 2003 memorandum. This evidence indicates the septic
system that serves the commercial use on Tax Lot 7200 ( the gym) was installed in the 1960' s
before the county required or issued septic permits. However, the applicant' s evidence indicates
all other septic systemson the subject property have received county permits.
Mr. Roan arguesno further septic systemscould be installed on the subjectproperty, and
therefore the property is not suitable for further commercial development under the proposed RC
Zone. He assertsno newsepticsystemscouldbe approvedon anyof the subjectproperty's lots
that are less than one acre in size. The applicant responds, and the Hearings Officer concurs, that
to the extent the half -acre minimum lot size applies to the subject property, she can satisfy that
requirementby consolidatinganylots thatarelessthanone-half acre.2
Finally, Mr. Roan arguesthe lots comprisingthe subjectpropertywould not qualify for new
septic systemsbecauseof the nature of the soils and the property's proximity to the Little
Deschutes River. The applicant responds, and I also concur, that Mr. Roan' s claims are
speculative and have no factual basis. Attached to the applicant' s March 17, 2003 memorandum
is a summary she prepared of the status of septic systems for all lots in the Ahern Acres
Subdivision. This reportindicatesthat approximatelyhalf of the subdivisionlots currentlyhave
septic systems, that a significant number of lots qualified for " standard" septic systems, that a
number of systems have received approved upgrades in the last ten years, and that no subdivision
lots have been denied septic approval. Mr. Roan offered no evidence to dispute this report.
For the foregoing reasons, the Hearings Officer finds the applicant has demonstratedthe subject
property is and in the future canbe servedby approvedseptic systems.
2. Water. Existinguseson the subjectpropertyareservedby privatewells.
3
Opponent Wayne
2The applicant's March 25"' memorandumstates, andthe HearingsOfficer is aware, that newerseptic
systemsapprovedby the Departmentof EnvironmentalQuality for the southpart of DeschutesCounty
may not require half -acre lots.
As discussed above, the Hearings Officer has concluded it is appropriate to include in this decision Lot 6
in Block 2 of Ahern Acres because it is developed with a well that serves the uses on Lots 2 and 4.
Demaris
TA- 03- 13/ ZC- 02- 5
RoanarguesthesubjectpropertyshouldnotberezonedRCbecauseit mustbeservedbyapublic
water system. Mr. Roan offers no authority for such a requirement. In fact, the comprehensive
plan provisionsgoverningrural commercialdevelopmentexpresslyallow suchdevelopmentto
be served by private wells. Section 23.40.060(2)(c), Policy 11. For these reasons, the Hearings
Officerfindstheapplicanthasdemonstratedthe subjectpropertyis andin the futurecanbe
servedby private wells.
3. Transportation Facilities. The subjectpropertyabutsBurgessRoadand River Pine Road,
bothpublicroadsmaintainedby thecounty. TherecordindicatesBurgessRoadrecentlywas
designateda rural arterial road, andRiver Pine Roadis a designatedrural local road. The lots
that comprise the subject property take access either from Burgess Road or from River Pine
Road. The record indicates Burgess Road has a posted speed limit of 45 miles per hour and
currently functions at Level of Service ( LOS) C. Opponent Wayne Roan argues the subject
propertyshouldnot be rezonedto RC becauseexistingandfuturecommercialdevelopmentwill
requirepatronsto backtheirvehiclesontoBurgessRoad, creatingasafetyhazard. In response,
the applicantassertsthereis sufficientareaat the front of all lots taking accessfrom Burgess
Roadto allow vehiclesto maneuverentirelyon thesubjectproperty. The HearingsOfficer finds
thephotographsin therecordof theexistingcommercialusesonthesubjectpropertysupports
this assertion. Therefore, I find theapplicanthasdemonstratedthe subjectpropertyis andin the
futurewill be servedby adequatetransportationfacilities.
4. PoliceandFire Protection. Becausethesubjectpropertyis locatedoutsideanycity limitsit
receives police protection from the DeschutesCounty Sheriff. The record indicates fire
protection is provided by the La Pine Rural Fire District. Therefore, the Hearings Officer finds
the subject property has and in the future will have adequate police and fire protection.
2. The impacts on surrounding land use will be consistent
with the specific goals and policies contained within the
Comprehensive Plan.
FINDINGS: The applicant hasproposeda zone changefrom RR -10 to RC in order to reflect the
historiccommercialuseof thesubjectproperty. Shedoesnotproposeanynewdevelopmentin
conjunction with the zone change. However, the RC zoning would allow further commercial
developmentonthepropertyconsistentwiththeRCZonestandards. Withrespectto existing
development, asdiscussedin the findingsabovethe subjectpropertyis servedby adequate
public services and facilities. Therefore, the Hearings Officer finds there will be no adverse
impactson surroundinglandfrom existingdevelopment. I alsofind potentialfuturedevelopment
alsowill nothaveadverseimpactsonsurroundingland. Commercialdevelopmentmustsatisfy
the standardsin the RC Zone that are designed to assure such development remains "rural" in
nature. In addition, thesizeandintensityof developmentwill belimitedby theavailabilityand
4TheHearingsOfficerisawarethecountyandtheOregonDepartmentofTransportationrecognizesix
levels of service for transportation facilities — LOS A through LOS F — with LOS A designating the best
levelof serviceandLOSF designatingtheworstlevelof service. I alsoamawarethatthecountyroad
department considers LOS D to be the minimum adequate level of service.
Demaris
TA- 03- 13/ ZC- 02- 5
capacityof septicsystemsandthesizelimitationsresultingfrom theLM Zone.
OpponentWayneRoanarguesfuturedevelopmentonthesubjectpropertywill harmnearby
wells andthe Little DeschutesRiver becauseof sewagerunoff. As with many of Mr. Roan's
arguments, there is no evidence in the record to support such a claim. With the exception of one
septic systemthat predatescountyregulation, all septicsystemson the subjectpropertyhave
beenpermittedandinspectedby the county, andall future septicsystemswill receivesimilar
scrutiny.
For the foregoing reasons, the Hearings Officer finds the applicant's proposal satisfies this zone
change standard.
D. That there has been a change in circumstances since the
property was last zoned, or a mistake was madein the zoning
of the property in question. ,
FINDINGS:
1. Change in Circumstances. The applicant arguesthe proposed zone change from -RR -10 to
RC is justified by a changein circumstancesconsistingof the county's adoption of the
comprehensive plan and zoning ordinance provisions creating the RC Zone. She argues the RC
Zonewasadoptedspecificallyto authorizethetype of commercialdevelopmentpresenton the
subjectproperty and that otherwisewould be considereda nonconforminguse outside an
unincorporated community. The Hearings Officer concurs that the change in state land use law
reflectedin the county's adoptionof the RC Zoneexpressesa strongpolicy for the creationof
low -intensitycommercialdevelopmentto serveruralpopulationsliving outsideunincorporated
areas.
OpponentWayne Roan arguesthe commercialuseson the subjectproperty should remain
nonconforming uses under the current RR -10 zoning because these uses thereby would be
subject to tighter regulation and could not be expanded. The Hearings Officer disagrees. I find
Mr. Roan'sargumentis inconsistentwith thestatepolicy reflectedin theRCZone.
2. Mistake. As discussedabove, the subjectpropertywasdesignatedandzonedRR -10with the
adoptionof PL -15in 1979. Theapplicantarguesthiszoningwasa mistakefor the following
reasons:
a. deedrestrictionswererecordedwith theplattingof theAhernAcresSubdivisionin the 1960's
specifically to designatecertain lots for commercial uses;
b. commercialuseswereestablishedonthesubjectpropertyprior to 1973;
c. in 1996theapplicantsawacopyof the1973zoningmapfor thesubjectpropertyshowingit
was zoned A - S, Rural Service Center, which allowed commercial uses;
d. in June 1973 the county issued an access permit to Burgess Road for commercial development
Demaris
TA- 03- 13/ ZC- 02- 5
on the subject property; and
e. the 1979 zoning map adoptedwith PL -15 zoned RSC a parcel further west on Burgess Road —
the Whistle Stop RSC — thatwaslessdevelopedwith commercialusesthanthesubjectproperty.
Opponent Wayne Roan argues the applicant' s evidence is insufficient to establish the subject
propertyshouldhavebeenzonedRSCin 1979, particularlybecausethe1973zoningmapfor the
subject property on which the applicant relies in part cannot be located. The Hearings Officer
disagrees. I find thecircumstancesdescribedby theapplicantclearlysupporta findingthatthe
county' s 1979zoning of the subjectproperty to RR -10 rather than RSC was a mistake.
For the foregoing reasons, the Hearings Officer finds the applicant has demonstrated the
proposedzonechangefrom RR -10 to RC is justified both by a changein circumstancesand
becausetheRR -10zoningwasa mistake. Therefore, I find thecountyzoningmapshouldbe
amended to rezone the subject property to RC and the text of the RC Zone should be amended to
reflect this change. The applicant proposed revised zoning ordinance text. Planning staff
reviewed the applicant' s proposed language and recommended minor changes. I find staff -s
recommended changes are appropriate. Therefore, I find the provisions of the RC Zone in
Chapter18.74 of the DeschutesCountyCodeshouldbe amendedto includethe following new
language:
Section 18.74.027, Uses allowed in Rosland Rural Commercial Zone
A. Uses Permitted Outright. Any use listed as a use permitted outright by DCC
18. 74. 020( A).
B. Uses Permitted subiect to Site Plan Review. The following uses and their
accessory uses are permitted subiect to the applicable provisions of this
chapter and DCC 18. 116 and 18. 124:
1. A building or buildings each not exceeding 2,500 sauare feet of floor
space to be used by any combination of the following uses that serve
the surrounding rural area of the travel needs of persons passing
through the area:
a. Eating and drinking establishments
b. Retail store, office and service establishments
2. Expansion of a nonconforming use existing as of 11/ 05/ 2002 shall be
limited to 2,500 square feet or 25 percent of the size of the building ( or
portion of the building) housing the nonconforming use as of said
date, whichever is greater.
3. A building or buildings each not exceeding 3, 500 square feet of floor
space to be used by any combination of the following uses.
Demaris
TA- 03- 13/ ZC- 02- 5
a. Sales of agricultural or farm products
b. Farm machinery sales and repair
C. Fennel or veterinary clinic
d. Automobile service station, repair garage, towing service, fuel
storage and fuel sales
e. Public or semi- public use
f. Residential use in the same building as a use permitted in this
chapter
g. Park or playground
4. Expansion of a nonconforming use existing as of 11/ 05/ 2002 shall be
limited to 3, 500 square feet each or 25 percent of the size of the
building ( or portion of the building) housing the nonconforming use
as of said date, which ever is greater.
C. Conditional Uses. The following uses and their accessory uses are permitted
subiect to the applicable provisions of this chapter and DCC 18. 116, 18. 124
and 18. 128:
1. A building or buildings each not exceeding 3, 500 square feet of floor
space to be used by any of the following uses.
a. Home occupation as defined in DCC 18. 04
b. Utility facility
C. Wireless telecommunications facilities, except those facilities
meeting the requirements of DCC 18. 116. 250( A) or ( B)
d. Child care center
e. Church
f. School
2. Recreational vehicle park
PLAN AMENDMENT
C. Title 23 of the Deschutes County Code, the Deschutes County Year 2000
Comprehensive Plan
1. Chapter 23. 36, Rural Development
Goals:
1. To preserve and enhance the open spaces, rural character, scenic
values and natural resources of the county.
2. To guide the location and design of rural development so as to
minimize the public costs of facilities and services, to avoid
Demaris
TA- 03- 13/ ZC- 02- 5
unnecessary expansion of service boundaries, and to preserve and
enhance the safety and viability of rural land uses.
3. To provide for the possible long term expansion of urban areas while
protecting the distinction betweenurban (urbanizing) land and rural
lands.
FINDINGS: Theproposedplan amendmentwould recognizethe history andexistenceof rural
commercial developmenton the subjectproperty. The current usesof the property are of
relatively low intensity andthe intensityof futureuseswill be limited by septicfeasibility, lot
sizes and minimum setbacks. The lots comprising the subject property have accessfrom Burgess
Road, a designatedrural arterial. The subject property is centrally located to serve a large rural
population. For these reasons, the Hearings Officer finds the applicant' s proposal is consistent
with these plan policies.
a. Section 23. 36. 080, Transportation
Policies:
15. Deschutes County shall consider roadway , function,
classification and capacity as criteria for plan map
amendments and zone changes to assure that proposed land
uses do not exceed the planned capacity of the transportation
system.
FINDINGS: The subject property is located at the intersection of Burgess Road, a designated
rural arterial, and River Pine Road, a designated rural local road. The record indicates Burgess
Roadcurrentlyfunctionsat LOSC, well abovetheminimum LOS acceptableto the county. The
Hearings Officer finds that the low intensity commercial uses that could be developed on the
subjectpropertyundertheRC plandesignationwill notgeneratetraffic exceedingthecapacityof
Burgess Road.
2. Chapter 23. 40, Unincorporated Communities
FINDINGS: As discussedin the zonechangefindingsabove, incorporatedby referenceherein,
the Hearings Officer has found the applicant has demonstrated the proposed zone change
satisfies all of the applicable approval criteria in Chapter 18 of the DeschutesCounty Code. The
samefindings and conclusions supportthe applicant' s proposed plan amendment.
The applicantproposedamendedcomprehensiveplan languageto include findings describing
and supporting the creation of the Rosland Rural Commercial Zone. Planning staff submitted
alternate language including minor revisions. The Hearings Officer finds staff' s proposed
revisions are appropriate. Therefore, I find the provisions of Chapter 23. 40 should be amended to
include the following new underscoredlanguage:
a. Section 23. 40. 010, Unincorporated Communities
Demaris
TA- 03- 13/ ZC- 02- 5
The Rosland Rural Commercial area was zoned Rural Commercial in
2003 because it was recognized as a small rural center that was
established prior to the adoption of statewide zoning rules by
Deschutes County. The County designated the subiect property as
Rural Residential Exceptions Area on the 1979 PL - 15 zoning maps.
This designation does not reflect the nature of the historically
committed land uses on the subiect property. In 2002 the County
changed the designation of the smallest acknowledged RSC areas to
Rural Commercial zoning to comply with the new state administrative
rules for Rural Communities. The Rosland Rural Commercial area
was mistakenly left off the 1979 PL - 15 zoning maps. Since 1979, State
law regarding Rural Community Centers has changed. The County
has changed the designation of the smallest acknowledged RSC areas
to Rural Commercial zoning to comply with the new state
administrative rules for Rural Communities. The small size and rural
nature of the development in the Rosland Rural Commercial area
makes it appropriate to apply an RC rather than an RSC designation.
OAR 660- 022- 0010( 10)( b) states that in order for an area to be zoned
Rural Service Center" under the Unincorporated Communities rule,
it must be identified in a county' s acknowledged comprehensive plan
as a " rural service center prior to the adoption of OAR 660- 022
October 28, 1994) or be listed with the Department of Land
Conservation and Development' s January 30, 1997 " Survey of
Oregon' s Unincorporated Communities." The Rosland Rural
Commercial area does not meet either of these requirements and the
level of development on the subiect property is rural in character and
intensity.
b. Section 23. 040. 060, Rural Commercial - Deschutes Junction,
Deschutes River Woods Store, Rosland and Spring River
The County has also applied the new Rural Commercial plan
designation to the Rosland commercial center which has historically
been committed to commercial type uses and has served the area as
such since prior to adoption of zoning regulations. No new exceptions
are required as the subiect properties are in an acknowledged
exception area.
A. Introduction
2. Post - Acknowledgment Plan Amendment
The owner of the Rosland commercial center sought
approval of a post - acknowledgment plan amendment in
Demaris
TA- 03- 13/ ZC- 02- 5
2002. The amendment was sought to confirm her right
to continue to operate the commercial center as it has
been operated since 1973. The center was recognized
because it is small and rural in character and would
qualify for a goal exception as the land is physically
developed with rural commercial uses.
3. Rural Commercial
The Rosland Rural Commercial boundary includes
approximately 4. 07 acres near the intersection of
Bureess and River Pine Roads. The remainder is
surrounded by exceutions land zoned RR - 10.
B. Land Use Planning
1. Existing Land Uses.
The Deschutes County Comprehensive Plan designates
Deschutes Junctions Deschutes River Woods Store,
Rosland and Spring River as Rural Commercial.
C. Policies
2. Rural Commercial zoning shall be applied to Deschutes
Junction, Deschutes River Woods Store, Rosland and
Spring River.
4. County Comprehensive Plan policies and land use
regulations shall ensure that new uses authorized within
the Deschutes Junction, Deschutes River Woods Store,
Rosland and Spring River areas do not adversely affect
agricultural and forest usesin the surrounding areas.
D. Oregon Administrative Rules
1. Division 660- 22, Unincorporated Communities
a. Section 660. 22. 000, Purpose
1) The purpose of this division is to establish a policy for the
planning and zoning of unincorporated communities that
recognizes the importance of these communities in rural
Oregon. It is intended to expedite the planning process for
counties by reducing their need to take exceptions to statewide
planning goals when planning and zoning unincorporated
Demaris
TA- 03- 13/ ZC- 02- 5
communities.
2) This division interprets Goals 11 & 14 concerning urban and
rural development outside urban growth boundaries and
applies only to unincorporated communities defined in OAR
660- 22- 0010.
FINDINGS: The proposedRoslandRural CommercialZoneis comprisedof propertythat
received an exception to Goals 3 or 4 when it was designatedand zoned RR -10 in 1979. The
proposed plan amendment will allow this exceptions area to be zoned RC and therefore will
maintainusesthatareruralin characterandintensity. Thesubjectpropertyis locatedoutsideany
urban growth boundary and city limit.
b. Section 660- 22- 0010, Definitions
10) Unincorporated Community means a settlement with the
following characteristics:
a) It is made up primarily of lands subject to an exception
to Statewide Planning Goal 3, Goal 4 or both;
FINDINGS: Thesubjectpropertyis comprisedentirelyof propertydesignatedRuralResidential
ExceptionsAreain the county's comprehensiveplan. Therefore, exceptionsfrom Goals3 and4
were taken when the county adopted its 1979 comprehensive plan.
b) It is either identified in a county' s acknowledged
comprehensive plan as a " rural community", " service
center", " resort community", or similar term before
this division was adopted ( October 28, 1994) or it is
listed in the Department of Land Conservation and
Development' s January 30, 1997 " Survey of Oregon' s
Unincorporated Communities";
FINDINGS: Thesubjectpropertyis notidentifiedasaruralcommunity, servicecenter, resort
community or similar term in the comprehensive plan and therefore does not constitute an
unincorporated community."
c)
It is outsideof the urban growth boundary of any city.
FINDINGS: Thesubjectpropertyis notlocatedwithinaUGBof anycity. TheclosestUGBis
theBendUGBwhichis approximately20milesnorthof thesubjectproperty.
d) It is not incorporated as a city.
FINDINGS: Thesubjectpropertyis notwithin anincorporatedcity.
e) It met the definition of one of four types of
unincorporated communities in sections ( 6) through ( 9)
Demaris
TA- 03- 13/ ZC- 02- 5
of this rule, and included the uses described in those
definitions, prior to the adoption of this definition
October 28, 1994).
FINDINGS: The subject property does not meet the definition of any of the four types of
unincorporated communities in sections 6 through 9 of this section. Therefore, the Hearings
Officer findsthepropertyis not anunincorporatedcommunitysubjectto OAR 660Division 22.
2. Chapter 660-12, Transportation Planning
a. Section 660- 12- 060, Plan and Land Use Regulation Amendments
1) Amendments to functional plans, acknowledged
comprehensive plans, and land use regulations which
significantly affect a transportation facility shall assure that
allowed land uses are consistent with the identified function,
capacity and performance standards ( e. g. level of service,
volume to capacity ratio, etc.) of the identified facility.
FINDINGS: As discussed in the findings above, the subject property has access from both
Burgess Road, a designated rural arterial street, and River Pine Road, a designated rural local
road. TherecordindicatestheBurgessRoadcurrentlyoperatesat LOSC andthatthecountyhas
issuedaccesspermitson BurgessRoadfor the existingcommercialuseson thesubjectproperty.
The applicant is not proposing any new development in conjunction with the proposed plan
amendmentand zone change. The Hearings Officer has found the size of the lots comprising the
subject property, the required minimum setbacksand the feasibility of septic systemswill serve
to limit theamountandintensityof commercialdevelopmentonthesubjectproperty. Therefore,
I find theproposedplanamendmentandzonechangewill not significantlyaffectatransportation
facility.
IV. FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATION:
Basedon the foregoingFindingsof Fact andConclusionsof Law, theHearingsOfficer hereby
RECOMMENDS APPROVAL of the applicant's proposedplan amendmentredesignatingthe
subject property, including Lot 6 in Block 2 of Ahern Acres, from Rural Residential Exception
Area to Rural Commercial, and the proposed zone change from Rural Residential — 10 Acre
Minimum to Rural Commercial, through the following actions:
1. amending the comprehensive plan and zoning map to create the Rosland Rural
Commercial Zone on the subject property;
2. amending the text of the comprehensive plan to include the new findings and policies set
forth in the findings above; and
3. amending the text of the zoning ordinance to include new RC Zone provisions set forth in
the findings above.
Demaris
TA- 03- 13/ ZC- 02- 5
Dated this day of April, 2003.
Mailed this day of April, 2003.
Karen H. Green, Hearings Officer
Demaris
TA- 03- 13/ ZC- 02- 5
a