VOL 36PAGE814
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
An Ordinance Amending Section 4. 160,
Airport Development ( A- D) Zone,
Ordinance No. PL- 15, Deschutes County
Zoning Ordinance of 1979, Providing
for Uses Permitted Outright and
Conditional Uses, Use Limitations,
Dimensional Standards, Stream Setback,
Off- Street Parking and Loading,
Design and Use Criteria, and Additional
Requirements; and Repealing Section
4. 160 of Ordinance No. PL- 15, Deschutes
County Zoning Ordinance of 1979,
Adopted on November 1, 1979
ORDINANCE NO. 80- 221
F/ LE D
air
1981
RQS~
3' CSCHOESRCQPATTjRS0jVNTy QE,oK
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY,
OREGON, ORDAINS as follows:
Section 1. That Section 4. 160, Airport Development ( A- D)
Zone, as set forth herein, is added to and made a part of Ordinance
No. PL- 15, Deschutes County Zoning Ordinance of 1979.
ORDINANCE NO. 80- 221, PAGE 1
W
vol. 36PAGESnO
SECTION 4. 160 AIRPORT DEVELOPMENT ZONE, A- D. In an A- D zone, the
following regulations shall apply:
1) Purpose: The purpose of the Airport Development Zone is to
allow for development compatible with ongoing
airport use and consistent with the Deschutes
County Year 2000 Comprehensive Plan, while pro-
viding for public review of proposed development
likely to have significant impact on surrounding
lands.
2) Uses Permitted Outright.
A) Airport and non- structural uses such as fuel storage,
tie- down areas and parking facilities.
B) Hangars, aircraft site, sale and repair facilities and
related offices.
3) Conditional Uses.
A) Farm use.
B) Farm accessory buildings and uses, excluding residential
uses.
C) Utility facility necessary for public service except
landfills.
D) Golf course.
E) Park, playground, other public recreation site or
facility or community service facility owned and
operated by a governmental agency or nonprofit
community organization.
F) Restaurant, which may include a bar or cocktail lounge
as an accessory use; one restaurant per airport;
restaurant and accessory use to be 2, 500 square feet
or less in size.
G) Small- scale aviation related storage.
H) Permitted industrial uses, excluding planned unit
developments for other than permitted industrial uses,
as described in Sections 20 and 21 of Ordinance No.
PL- 11, as amended, provided that any such use is
compatible with airport uses.
4) Use Limitations. In an A- D zone, the following limitations
and standar s shall apply to all uses:
A) The height of any structure or part of a structure
such as chimneys, towers, antennas, etc., shall not
exceed 35 feet.
ORDINANCE NO. 80- 221, PAGE 2
a
5)
VOL WwE C'6
B) In approach zones beyond the clear zone areas, no
meeting place designed to accommodate more than 25
persons for public or private purposes shall be permitted.
C) All parking demand created by any use permitted by this
section shall be accommodated on the subject premises
entirely off- street.
D) No use permitted by this section shall require the
backing of traffic onto a public or private street or
road right- of-way.
E) There shall be only one ingress and one egress from
uses permitted by this section per each 800 feet of
frontage on an arterial or per each 300 feet of
frontage or collector. If necessary to meet this
requirement, permitted uses shall provide for shared
ingress and egress.
F) No use permitted by this section that generates more
than 30 truck- trailer or other heavy equipment trips
per day to and from a subject use shall be permitted
to locate on a lot adjacent to or across a street from
a residential use or lot in a duly platted subdivision,
nor shall a residential use or lot be permitted
adjacent to or across the street from an existing or
planned use that is expected to generate such traffic.
G) No use likely to generate more than 20 auto or truck
trips during the busiest hour of the day to and from
the premises shall be permitted unless served directly
by an arterial or collector, or other improved street
or road designed to serve such traffic. In no case
shall such traffic be permitted to utilize a street
or road which passes through a residential area.
H) No power lines shall be located in clear zones and
any power line located within an approach zone shall
be in conformance with designated approach slope ratios
contained in Section 4. 170(6)( B)(a), of this Ordinance.
I) No use shall be allowed which is likely to attract an
unusual quantity of birds, particularly birds which
normally fly at high altitudes.
Dimensional Standards. In an A- D zone, the following
dimensional standards shall apply:
A) The minimum lot size not in a planned unit development
or subdivision shall be 5 acres, except that in conjunction
with a specific use application, a lot size of not less
than 22 acres may be approved where there is a showing
that the lot requested is the maximum necessary for the
use and reasonably expected future expansion of the use.
ORDINANCE NO. 80- 221, PAGE 3
VOL c~r'AGE S7
The lot size in a planned unit developnent or sub-
division shall average at least 2z acres.
B) Lot coverage shall not exceed 70% by all buildings,
storage areas and facilities and required off- street
parking and loading areas.
C) The minimum setback between any structure and an
arterial right- of-way shall be 100 feet. The minimum
setback of a non- residential structure from a collector
right- of-way shall be 50 feet, and from all local streets
the minimum setback shall be 20 feet.
D) The minimum lot frontage shall be 330 feet, except that
the minimum lot frontage in a planned unit development
or subdivision shall be 100 feet.
E) The minimum side and rear setback between any structure
and a property line shall be 50 feet.
6) Stream Setback. To permit better light, air, vision, stream
or pollution control, protect fish and wildlife areas and
preserve natural scenic amenities and vistas along the streams
and lakes, all structures, buildings or similar permanent fixtures
shall be set back from the high- water line or mark along all
streams or lakes a minimum of 100 feet measured at right angles
to the high- water line or mark.
7) Off- Street Parkin and Loading. Off- street parking and loading
shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of this
section and Article 5.
8) Design and Use Criteria. The Hearings Officer shall take into
account the impact o the proposed conditional use on nearby
residential and commercial uses, on resource carrying capacities
and on the capacity of transportation and other public facilities
and services. In approving a proposed conditonal use, the
Hearings Officer shall find that:
A) The proposed use is in compliance with the Comprehensive
Plan.
B) The proposed use is in compliance with the intent and
provisions of this Ordinance.
C) That any adverse social, economical, physical or
environmental impacts are minimized.
D) That the proposed use is not sensitive to noise of
the character anticipated by the current and expected
noise level contours of the airport.
ORDINANCE NO. 80- 221, PAGE 4
VOL 36p4GE838
E) That the proposed use is compatible with adjacent
agricultural and residential uses.
F) That there are sufficient public facilities and
services to support the proposed use.
G) That the location and site design of the proposed
facility will not be hazardous to the safety and general
welfare of surrounding properties, and that the
location will not unnecessarily restrict existing and
future development of surrounding lands as indicated
in the comprehensive plan.
H) That the use shall make the most effective use reason-
ably possible of the site topography, existing land-
scaping and building placement so as to preserve existing
trees and natural features, preserve vistas and other
views from public ways, minimize visibility of parking,
loading and storage areas from public ways and neighbor-
ing residential uses, and minimize intrusion into the
character of existing developments and land uses in
the immediate vicinity of the proposed use.
9) Additional Requirements. As a condition of approval of any
conditional use proposed within an A- D zone, the Hearings
Officer may require:
A) An increase in required setbacks.
B) Additional off- street parking and loading facilities
and building standards.
C) Limitations on signs or lighting, hours of operation,
points of ingress and egress and building heights.
D) Additional landscaping, screening and other improvements.
E) Glare- resistant materials in construction or other
methods likely to reduce operating hazards.
F) Other conditions considered necessary to achieve
compliance and policies of the comprehensive plan.
Section 2. Section 4. 160, Airport Development ( A- D) Zone,
Ordinance No. PL- 15, Deschutes County Zoning Ordinance of 1979, as
adopted on November 1, 1979, is hereby repealed.
DATED this day of ra, 1-,U. 0,r- V , 1980.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
OF UTES
CO2
OREGON
ATTEST:
C-2
It/24rldd7't ROBE PA ON,•~ C N
TAMMY CHARD N
Recording Secretary C HEPARD, issioner
ALBERT A. Y ° G, Commissioner
ORDINANCE NO. 80- 221, PAGE 5
FINDINGS OF FACT
AIRPORT DEVELOPMENT ( A- D) ZONE
VOL 6MESIN
F' L E
J/ I1987
E
RSO,vDESHUT,ES PATr
CUNTY Q&,
1. The Deschutes County Comprehensive Plan amendments
are written to provide that the Airport Development ( A- D) Zone be
established in areas where airport noise conflicts are to be moderate
Ldn 65) or greater.
2. Industrial and some commercial uses are recognized as
compatible with moderate airport noise levels in Bend Municipal
Airport Master Plan Technical Report and the Oregon Department
of Transportation publication, " Airport Compatibility Planning."
3. The industrial uses and lot sizes in the Airport
Development ( A- D) Zone are compatible with the Light Industrial and
Industrial Park Zones in the Bend Urban Area Zoning Ordinance, as
well as being compatible with the Rural Industrial Zone and Research
and Development Zone lot size dimensions in the Deschutes County
Zoning Ordinance of 1979.
4. Lot size, setback and coverage in the Airport Development
A- D) Zone provide sufficient buffers between uses within the Air-
port Development ( A- D) Zone and adjacent residential and agricultural
uses.
5. Uses within the Airport Development ( A- D) Zone that
are not compatible with expected airport noise levels and adjacent
residential and agricultural uses are not allowed.
6. Compatibility with adjacent properties can be assured
in the Airport Development ( A- D) Zone through the allowed uses,
FINDINGS OF FACT, AIRPORT DEVELOPMENT ( A- D) ZONE, PAGE 1
VOL Mau 840
use limitations and through the site plan review process.
ADOPTED this day of , 1981.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
ROBERT C. PAULSON, JR., Chai
1. 11-100,
ATTEST:
TAMMY CHARDSON
Recording Secretary
FINDINGS OF FACT, AIRPORT DEVELOPMENT ( A- D) ZONE, PAGE 2