vet 48 p382
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
An Ordinance Adopting Building*
Codes and Providing Standards,*
Requiring Permits and Penal-
ties, Declaring Public
Nuisances, Providing For Fees,*
Repealing Ordinance No.' s
81- 016, 83- 019, and 83- 054,
Continuing Liabilities, and
Declaring an Emergency.
1983
MARYSUE PENUOLLOW, CO. CLERK
ORDINANCE NO. 83- 056
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY,
OREGON, ORDAINS as follows:
Section 1. A certain book or publication, a copy of which
is on file with the Deschutes County Clerk, marked and entitled,
Oregon State Structural Specialty Code and Fire and Life Safety
Regulations, 1983 Edition, Uniform Building Code, hereinafter
referred to as " Structural Code", hereby is adopted in its en-
tirety as the structural code for unincorporated Deschutes
County, Oregon, hereinafter referred to as " County", for regulat-
ing and controlling the construction, reconstruction, remodeling,
enlargement, alteration, repair, moving, removal, conversion,
demolition, occupancy, equipment, use, height, area and mainten-
ance of buildings or structures in unincorporated Deschutes
County; and said structural code so adopted and on file in the
office of the Clerk hereby is referred to and by this reference
made a part of this Ordinance as though fully set out herein.
Section 2. A certain book or publication, a copy of which
is on file with the Deschutes County Clerk, marked and entitled,
Oregon State Plumbing Specialty Code Statutes and Administrative
Rules, 1980 Edition, Uniform Plumbing Code, 1979 Edition, herein-
after referred to as " Plumbing Code", is hereby adopted in its
entirety as the plumbing code for the County for regulating and
controlling the erection, installation, alteration, addition,
repair, relocation, replacement, maintenance or use of plumbing
systems in unincorporated Deschutes County, and said plumbing
code so adopted and on file in the office of the Clerk is hereby
referred to and by this reference made a part of this Ordinance
as though fully set out herein.
Section 3. A certain book or publication, a copy of which
is on, file with the Deschutes County Clerk, marked and entitled,
Oregon State Mechanical Specialty Code and Mechanical Fire and
Life Safety Regulations, 1983 Edition, Uniform Mechanical Code,
1 - ORDINANCE NO. 83- 056
hereinafter referred to as " Mechanical Code", hereby is adopted
in its entirety as the mechanical code for unincorporated
Deschutes County for regulating and controlling the design, con-
struction, installation, quality of materials, location, opera-
tion and maintenance of heating, ventilating, cooling, refrigera-
tion systems, incinerators, and heat producing appliances, except
boilers and pressure vessels regulated by the State of Oregon,
Boiler and Pressure Vessel Law, in unincorporated Deschutes
County, and said mechanical code so adopted and on file in the
office of the Clerk hereby is referred to and by this reference
made a part of this ordinance as though fully set out herein.
Section 4. A certain book or publication, a copy of which
is on file with the Deschutes County Clerk, marked and entitled,
State of Oregon Electrical Specialty Safety Code, National Elec-
trical Code, 1981 Edition, hereinafter referred to as " Electrical
Code", hereby is adopted in its entirety as the electrical code
for unincorporated Deschutes County, Oregon, for regulating and
controlling the design, construction, installation, quality of
materials, location, operation, erection, addition, repair, relo-
cation, replacement, and maintenance of electrical service, wir-
ing, equipment, special occupancies, conditions, communications
systems, and other specified electrical applications, said Elec-
trical Code so adopted and on file is hereby referred to by this
reference and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set
out herein.
Section 5. A certain book or publication, a copy of which
is on file with the Deschutes County Clerk, marked and entitled,
Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, 1982
Edition, hereinafter referred to as " Building Abatement Code",
hereby is adopted in its entirety as the building abatement code
for unincorporated Deschutes County, Oregon, for regulating and
controlling the repair, vacation, demolition and abatement of
dangerous buildings in unincorporated Deschutes County, and said
code so adopted and on file in the office of the Clerk is hereby
referred to and by this reference made a part of this ordinance
as though fully set out herein.
Section 6. A certain book or publication, a copy of which
is on file with the Deschutes County Clerk, marked and entitled,
Uniform Fire Code, 1982 Edition, hereinafter referred to as " Fire
Code", hereby is adopted in its entirety as the fire code of
unincorporated Deschutes County, Oregon, for regulating the haz-
ards from storage, handling and use of hazardous substances,
materials and devices, and from conditions or premises in unin-
corporated Deschutes County; and said fire code so adopted and on
file in the office of the Clerk hereby is referred to and by this
reference made a part of this ordinance as though fully set out
herein.
Section 7. No mobile home shall be occupied within unin-
corporated Deschutes County, Oregon, without first obtaining a
2 - ORDINANCE NO. 83- 056
VOL
placement permit and satisfactory inspection of placement on the
site, electrical connections and plumbing connections.
Section 8. No modular or factory- built home shall be
located in unincorporated Deschutes County, Oregon, until said
modular or factory- built home has been certified by the State of
Oregon as meeting all State requirements.
Section 9. Numbers for addresses shall be placed on all new
and existing buildings in such a position as to be plainly vis-
ible and legible from a distance of fifty ( 50) feet. Said num-
bers or addresses shall contrast with their background and shall
be the official address number as assigned the property by
Deschutes County, the City of Bend, the Redmond Fire District, or
the City of Sisters.
Section 10. No building permit shall be issued for the
construction, reconstruction, remodeling, enlargement, altera-
tion, repair or conversion of any dwelling unit containing two or
more dwelling units, commercial or industrial structure, or
public use structure until plans therefore, including plot plan,
are submitted to the Planning Department and approved by it as
conforming to the zoning ordinances of Deschutes County, Oregon.
Section 11. No building permit or mobile home placement
permit shall be issued if the parcel of land upon which the
building or mobile home is to be erected or located on, or is
located on, would be in violation of the zoning ordinances or
subdivision ordinances of Deschutes County, Oregon. A subdi-
vision shall be deemed to be in violation of the zoning ordin-
ances for the purpose of issuing building permits so long as
roads and other improvements remain uncompleted in accordance
with the applicable subdivision ordinance.
Section 12. whenever appropriate in applying the provisions
of this ordinance, the following definitions apply:
A. " Appointing Authority", shall mean the Board of County
Commissioners of Deschutes County, Oregon.
B. " Building Department", shall mean the office of the
Deschutes County Building official or his designee.
C. " Building official", shall mean the person designated
by the Board as the Building Administrator.
D. " County", shall mean Deschutes County, a political
subdivision of the State of Oregon.
E. " Fire Chief", shall mean the applicable chief of any
rural fire protection district.
3 - ORDINANCE NO. 83- 056
F. " Mobile home", shall have the meaning provided in the
Deschutes County Zoning Ordinance of 1979.
G. " Modular or Factory- Built Home", shall mean a factory-
built dwelling unit designed to be transported to a site and the
construction meets the standards of the Oregon Prefabricated
Structures Code, and is a structure for the purposes of this
Ordinance.
Section 13. The Building Official as defined herein shall
administer and enforce this Ordinance, except that the provisions
of the Fire Code shall be administered and enforced by the appli-
cable Fire Chief.
Section 14. The Codes, Laws and Rules adopted by this
Ordinance as the Deschutes County Building Codes, are adopted as
constituted on August 1, 1983, and as thereafter constituted.
The regularly adopted amendments to the Codes, Laws and Rules by
the State of Oregon, the State Department of Commerce, and the
State Fire Marshall shall be effective as of the effective date
of the change, and shall be enforceable by the County as of such
date.
Section 15. The fees for permits under this Ordinance shall
be the fees prescribed by the Department of Commerce, State of
Oregon. The County may set any permit fee at an amount lower
than the fees adopted by the State of Oregon, or set a fee for a
permit for which the State of Oregon has failed to set a fee by
proper resolution.
Section 16. The provisions of the Codes, Laws, Rules, and
Regulations adopted by this Ordinance apply to all buildings,
structures, and mobile homes in unincorporated Deschutes County,
Oregon.
Section 17. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or
corporation to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move,
improve, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any
building, structure, or mobile home in unincorporated Deschutes
County, or cause the same to be done, contrary to or in violation
of any of the provisions of this Ordinance.
violation of any provision of this Ordinance is a Class A
infraction.
Section 18. Any act or condition which is in violation of
any of the provisions of this Ordinance, which is committed, con-
tinued or permitted, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance,
and the County may, in addition to any other remedies provided by
law, institute the proceedings for the enforcement of this
Ordinance.
4 - ORDINANCE NO. 83- 056
e ~
I
t
YU1 4r E _30
Section 19. The repeal of any ordinance by this ordinance
shall not release or extinguish any penalty, forfeiture, nui-
sance, obligation or liability incurred under such ordinance,
unless a provision of this ordinance shall so expressly provide,
and such ordinances repealed shall be treated as still remaining
in force for the purpose of sustaining any proper action or pro-
secution for the enforcement of such penalty, forfeiture, nui-
sance, obligation, or liability.
Section 20. Ordinance No.' s 81- 016, 83- 019, and 83- 054 are
hereby repealed.
Section 21. This Ordinance being necessary for the im-
mediate preservation of public peace, health and safety, an
emergency is declared to exist, and this Ordinance takes effect
on its passage.
DATED this - day of , 1983.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
ATTEST:
Recording Secretary LAU oner
5 - ORDINANCE NO. 83- 056