8' 7- 951
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES
An Ordinance Adopting
Deschutes County Code,
Declaring an Emergency
KFYPUN
the
and
ORDINANCE NO. 87- 014
WHEREAS, the Book Publishing Company, Seattle,
has compiled, edited and published a codification of
laws of Deschutes County, Oregon; and
COUNTYat RE
VOL
a 4.
Washingtortr
the general <
WHEREAS, there are now on file in the office of the County
Clerk, for public inspection, three copies of a document entitled
Deschutes County Code;" now, therefore,
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY,
OREGON, ORDAINS as follows:
Section 1. There is hereby adopted the " Deschutes County
Code," as compiled, edited and published by Book Publishing
Company, Seattle, Washington.
Section 2. This code shall be known as the " Deschutes
County Code" and it shall be sufficient to refer to said code as
the " Deschutes County Code" in any prosecution for the violation
of any provision thereof or in any proceeding at law or in
equity. It shall be sufficient to designate any ordinance adding
to, amending, correcting or repealing all or any part or portion
thereof as an addition to, amendment to, correction or repeal of
the " Deschutes County Code." Further reference may be had to the
titles, chapters, sections and subsections of the " Deschutes
County Code", and such reference shall apply to that numbered
title, chapter, section or subsection as it appears in the code.
Section 3. Whenever a reference is made to this code as the
Deschutes County Code" or to any portion thereof, or to any
ordinance, order or resolution of Deschutes County, Oregon,
codified herein, the reference shall apply to all amendments,
corrections and additions heretofore, now and hereafter made.
Section 4. Title, chapter and section headings contained
herein shall not be deemed to govern, limit, modify or in any
manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of
any title, chapter or section hereof.
Section 5. The provisions of this code shall not in any
manner affect matters of record which refer to, or are otherwise
connected with, ordinances, orders and resolutions, which are
therein specifically designated by number or otherwise,
and which
1 - ORDINANCE NO. 87- 014
VOL 82PAcE921
are included within the code, but such references shall be con-
strued to apply to the corresponding provisions contained within
this code.
Section 6. The last ordinance, order or resolution included
in this code was Ordinance 86- 049, passed April 16, 1987. The
following ordinances, passed subsequent to Ordinance 86- 049, but
prior to adoption of this code, are hereby adopted and made a
part of this code: Ordinances 86- 051, 86- 060, 86- 063, 86- 066,
86- 068, 86- 069, 86- 071, 86- 072, 86- 073, 86- 075, 86- 076, 86- 077,
87- 001, 87- 003, 87- 004, 87- 005, 87- 006 and 87- 007.
Section 7. Neither the adoption of this code nor the repeal
nor amendments hereby of any ordinance, order or resolution or
part or portion thereof shall in any manner affect the prosecu-
tion for violations of ordinances, which violations were commit-
ted prior to the effective date hereof, nor be construed as a
waiver of any license, fee, or penalty at said effective date due
and unpaid under such ordinances, orders or resolutions, nor be
construed as affecting any of the provisions of such ordinances,
orders or resolutions relating to the collection of any such
license, fee, or penalty, or the penal provisions applicable to
any violation thereof, nor to affect the validity of any bond or
cash deposit in lieu thereof required to be posted, filed, or
deposited pursuant to any ordinance, order or resolution, and all
rights and obligations thereunder appertaining shall continue in
full force and effect.
Section 8. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or
phrase of this code is for any reason held to be invalid or
unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the validity of
any remaining portion or portions of this code unless:
a. The code section, subsection, sentence, clause or
phrase provides otherwise;
b. The remaining part or parts are so essentially and
inseparably connected with and dependent upon the un-
constitutional or invalid part that it is apparent that
the remaining part or parts would not have been enacted
without the unconstitutional or invalid part; or
C. The remaining part or parts, standing alone, are
incomplete and incapable of being carried out in accor-
dance with the Board' s intent.
If for any reason this entire code should be declared invalid or
unconstitutional, then the original ordinances, orders and reso-
lutions shall be in full force and effect.
Section 9. This Ordinance being necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health and safety, an emergency
2 - ORDINANCE NO. 87- 014
VOL 82PAGET2
is declared to exist, and this Ordinance takes effect on its
passage.
DATED this day of , 1987.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
OF 0SCHU21ZS _ COUNTY-,- OREGON
Cnair
ATTEST:
TTOM T OOP, Co issloner
V M
4RecordingSecretary D CK MAUDLIN, mmissioner
3 - ORDINANCE NO. 87- 014