REVIEWED
i95- 10652 LES COUNSEL
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
1` ' F T 18 / it, 11: 53An Ordinance Amending Subsec-
tion 21 of Section 1. 030,
Subsection 3 of Section 4. 080,*
and Subsection 16 of Section *
8. 050 of Ordinance No. PL - 15, *
Deschutes County Zoning
Ordinance of 1979, as Amended.*
ORDINANCE NO. 84- 015
f ; I  T4s';
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY,
OREGON, ORDAINS as follows:
Section 1. Subsection 21 of Section 1. 030, Definitions,
Ordinance No. PL - 15, is amended to read as follows:
21) Cluster Developmment. A planned development at
least 5 acres in area permitting the clustering
of single or multi - family residences on one part
of the property, with individual lots not exceed-
ing 2 acres in size. Individual lots are contig-
uous to one another except for occasional cor-
ridors to allow for human passage, wildlife
travel, or natural features such as a stream or
bluff. No commercial or industrial uses are
permitted."
Section 2. Subsection 3 of Section 4. 080, Forest Use - F- 2,
Ordinance No. PL - 15, is amended to read as follows:
11( 3) Conditional Uses Permitted.
A) Mobile home as a secondary accessory farm
or forest dwelling subject to the pro-
visions set forth in Section 5. 120 of this
Ordinance.
B) Operations conducted for the exploration,
mining and processing of geothermal
resources as defined by ORS 522. 005, for
mining of resources for personal or farm
use.
C) Private parks, playgrounds, hunting and
fishing preserves,
campgrounds, motorcycle
tracks, rodeo or livestock aren s and other
KEY HED
1 - ORDINANCE NO. 84- 015
A 51995
recreational facilities serving the general
public.
D) Parks, playgrounds, group camping or com-
munity centers owned and operated by a
governmental agency or non- profit community
organizations.
E) Personal use landing strips for airplanes
and helicopter pads, including associated
hangar, maintenance and service facilities.
A personal use landing strip as used in
this section means an airstrip restricted
except for aircraft emergencies to use by
the owner, and on infrequent and occasional
basis by his invited guests, and by commer-
cial aviation activities in connection with
agricultural or forestry operations. No
aircraft may be based on a personal use
landing strip other than those owned or con-
trolled by the owner of the airstrip. Ex-
ceptions to the activities permitted under
this definition may be granted through
waiver action by the Aeronautics Division
in specific instances. A personal use
landing strip lawfully existing as of
September 1, 1975 shall continue to be
permitted subject to any applicable regu-
lations of the Aeronautics Division.
F) Commercial utility facilities for the pur-
pose of generating power for public use by
sale.
G) Home occupations carried on by residents as
an accessory use within their dwelling or
other buildings customarily provided in
conjunction with farm or forest use.
H) A facility for the primary processing of
forest products, provided that such a
facility is found to not seriously inter-
fere with other forest or accepted farming
practices and is compatible with farm uses
described in ORS 215. 203( 2). Such a facil-
ity may be approved for a one year period
which is renewable. These facilities are
intended to be only portable or temporary
in nature. The primary processing of a
forest product, as used in this section,
means the use of a portable chipper or stud
mill or other similar method of initial
treatment of a forest product in order to
2 - ORDINANCE NO. 84- 015
t-
VN_ 0 v iU
enable its shipment to market. Forest
products, as used in this section, means
timber grown upon a parcel of land or
contiguous land where the primary proces-
sing facility is located.
I) The boarding of horses for profit,
stables
and dude ranches.
J) Single family and residential and recrea-
tional dwellings, including mobile homes
subject to subsection ( 5)( L) of this
section, not provided in conjunction with
forest or farm use; partitions, planned
developments and subdivisions in accordance
with the terms of this Ordinance and County
Ordinance 81- 043 and policies set forth by
the Comprehensive Plan.
K) Destination Resorts.
L) Landfills when a written tentative approval
by DEQ of the site is submitted with the
conditional use application.
M) Mobile homes in accordance with section
5. 110 of this Ordinance.
N) Time- share unit or the creation thereof."
Section 3. Subsection 16 of Section 8. 050, Specific Use
Standards, Ordinance No. PL - 15, is amended to read as follows:
11( 16) Cluster Development.
A) Such uses may be authorized as a condition-
al use only after consideration of the
following factors:
1) Need for the residential uses in the
immediate area of the proposed
development.
2) Environmental, social and economic
impacts likely to result from the
development, including impacts on
public facilities such as schools and
roads.
3) Effect of the development of the rural
character of the area.
3 - ORDINANCE NO. 84- 015
N
l' t
4) Effect on the development on agricul-
tural, forestry, wildlife or other
natural resource uses in the area.
B) The conditional use shall not be granted
unless the following findings are made:
1) Human activities, including all devel-
opment and alterations of the natural
landscape, will be limited to 35 per-
cent of the land and 65 percent will
be kept in open space uses. In the
Forest Use Zone, development shall be
limited to 25 percent of the land with
75 percent to be retained in open
space. The area of the development
shall be measured by drawing a contin-
uous line around the affected area 150
feet on either side of any lot, build-
ing, road or other such facility.
2) Uses permitted in the open space area
may include the management of natural
resources, trail systems or other out-
door uses that are consistent with the
character of the natural landscape.
3) All lots within the development shall
be contiguous to one another except
for occasional corridors which shall
not be wider than the average lot
width, unless the hearings body finds
that special circumstances warrant a
wider corridor.
4) In the resource and rural zones, the
cluster development shall be located
on the least productive land.
5) All subdivision requirements contained
in County Ordinance 81- 043 shall be
met.
6) The total number of units may exceed
the overall density established by the
minimum lot size of the zone in which
the development is proposed by not
more than 33 percent.
7) The open space of the proposed develop-
ment may be platted as a separate par-
cel or in common ownership of some or
all of the clustered units, however,
4 - ORDINANCE NO. 84- 015
1l1L PAGEe. 1
the open area shall not be subject to
development unless the whole develop-
ment is brought inside an urban growth
boundary.
8) Roads within the development shall
meet the requirements of the County
Road Department and shall be consid-
ered private roads. An agreement
acceptable to the Road Department
shall be required for the maintenance
of those roads. All service connec-
tions shall be the minimum length
necessary and underground where
feasible.
9) The rural character of the area shall
not be adversely affected.
C) All applications shall be accompanied by a
plan with the following information:
1) A plat map meeting all the subdivision
requirements of County Ordinance
81- 043.
2) The area to be preserved for open
space clearly designated on the plan
and adequate deed restrictions to
maintain the land in open space. A
written management plan shall also be
submitted for the open space.
3) A written agreement establishing an
acceptable homeowners association
assuring the maintenance of common
property in the development.
D) Dimensional Standards:
1) Setbacks and height limitations shall
be as prescribed in the zone in which
the development is proposed unless
adequate justification for reduction
is provided the hearings body, but in
no case shall the setbacks be less
than 25 feet or the height greater
than 40 feet.
2) Minimum area for a cluster development
shall be 5 acres unless otherwise
limited by the zone in which it is
proposed.
5 - ORDINANCE NO. 84- 015
E) Phased development of the project may be
permitted if agreed to by the hearings body
at the time of the initial application.
Such conditions and performance bonds shall
be required to assure completion of the
project as are stipulated by the hearings
body.
DATED this
Jt day of rA --' 1984.
BOARDd COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
ATTEST:
L Qaiutuc' lam- /
J
Recording Secretary
6 - ORDINANCE NO. 84- 015
LAURENCE A. TUTTLE, Commissioner