REVIEWED
LEGAL COUNSEL
DESCHUTES COUNTY OFFICIAL RECORDS
NANCY BLANKENSHIP, COUNTY CLERK lid V i
COMMISSIONERS' JOURNAL
041a5IZA1OX8' 18'13 AM
UI~lgUuuhu~~~ui~
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
An Ordinance Amending the Deschutes County Code
Chapter 18. 116 to Amend the Bicycle Parking * ORDINANCE NO. 2010- 010
Standards.
WHEREAS, the Deschutes County Planning Division staff initiated a text amendment to Deschutes
County Code ( DCC) Chapter 18. 116 to amend the bicycle parking standards in order to provide greater
flexibility in requiring such parking under certain circumstances in rural areas ; and
WHEREAS, after notice was give in accordance with applicable law, a public hearing was held on
January 28, 2010 before the Deschutes County Planning Commission and on the same date the Planning
Commission recommended approval of the text amendments; and
WHEREAS, the Board of County Commissioners considered this matter after a duly noticed public
hearing on February 22, 2010 and March 15, 2010 and concluded that the proposed changesare consistent with
the County's Comprehensive Plan and that the public will benefit from changesto the land use regulations; now
therefore,
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON, ORDAINS
as follows:
Section 1. AMENDMENT. DCC Section 18. 116.031, Bicycle Parking, is amended to read as
described in Exhibit " A," attached hereto and by this reference incorporated herein, with new language
underlined and language to be deleted in strilee .
Section 2.
reference herein.
Dated this
FINDINGS. The Board adopts as its findings Exhibit " B", attached and incorporated by
of Lf.~
3
2010
ATTEST:
Recording Secretary
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
DENNIS R. LUKE, Chair
a& vt4~~
ALAN UNGER, Vice Chair
oxbk
TAMMY BANEY, Commissioner
Page 1 of 2 - ORDINANCE NO. 2010- 010 ( 03/ 17/10)
Date of 1't Reading: day of dr w' Lifer; 2010.
Date of 2"d Reading: dayof 2010.
Record of Adoption Vote:
Commissioner Yes No Abstained Excused
Dennis R. Luke
Alan Unger
Tammy Baney
Effective date: Alr- day of , 2010.
Page 2 of 2 - ORDINANCE NO. 2010- 010 ( 03/ 17/10)
18. 116.031. Bicycle Parking.
New developmentand any construction, renovation or alteration of an existing use requiring a site
plan review under DCC Title 18 for which planning approval is applied for after the effective date
of Ordinance 93- 005 shall comply with the provisions of DCC 18. 116.031.
A. Number and Type of Bicycle Parking SpacesRequired.
1. General Minimum Standard.
a. All uses that require off- street motor vehicle parking shall, except as specifically noted,
provide one bicycle parking space for every five required motor vehicle parking spaces.
b. Except as specifically set forth herein, all such parking facilities shall include at least
two sheltered parking spaces or, where more than 10 bicycle spaces are required, at
least 50 percent of the bicycle parking spaces shall be sheltered.
c. When the proposed use is located outside of an unincorporated community a
destination resort, and a rural commercial zone exceptionsto the bicycle parking
standards may be authorized by the Planning Director or HearingsBody if the applicant
demonstrates one or more of the following:
i The proposed use is in a location accessed by roads with no bikeways and bicycle
use by customers or employees is unlikely.
ii. The proposed use generates less than 50 vehicle trips per day:
iii. No existing, buildings on the site will accommodate bicycle parking and no new
buildings are proposed.
iv. The size, weight, or dimensions of the goods sold at the site makes transporting
them by bicycle impractical or unlikely.
v. The use of the site requires equipment that makes it unlikely that a bicycle would
be used to access the site. Representative examples would include, but not be
limited to, paintball parks, golf courses, shooting ranges, etc.
2. Special Minimum Standards.
a. Multi- Family Residences. Every residential use of four or more dwelling units shall
provide at least one bicycle parking space for each unit. In those instances in which the
residential complex has no garage, required spaces shall be sheltered.
b. Parking Lots. All public and commercial parking lots and parking structures shall
provide a minimum of one bicycle parking space for every 10 motor vehicle parking
spaces.
c. Schools. Seeendai-j S _schools, both public and private, shall provide one bicycle
parking space for every 4-0 25 students, half all of which shall be sheltered.
d. Colleges. One- half of the bicycle parking spaces at colleges, universities and trade
schools shall be sheltered facilities.
3. Trade Off with Motor Vehicle Parking Spaces.
a. One motor vehicle parking space may be deleted from the required number of spaces
in exchange for providing required bicycle parking.
i. Any deleted motor vehicle space beyond the one allowed above shall be
replaced with at least one five bicycle spaces.
ii. If such additional parking is to be located in the area of the deleted automobile
parking space, it must meet all other bicycle parking standards.
b. The Hearings Body or Planning Director may authorize additional bicycle parking in
exchange for required motor vehicle parking in areas of demonstrated, anticipated, or
desired high bicycle use.
4. Calculating number of bicycle spaces.
a. Fractional spaces shall be rounded up to the next whole space.
PAGE 1 OF 2 - EXHIBIT " A" TO ORDINANCE 2010- 010
b. For facilities with multiple uses ( such as a commercial center) bicycle-parking
requirements shall be calculated by using the total number of motor vehicle spaces
required for the entire development.
B. Bicycle Parking Design.
1. General Description.
a. Sheltered Parking. Sheltered parking may be provided within a bicycle storage room,
bicycle locker, or racks inside a building; in bicycle lockers or racks in an accessory
parking structure; underneath an awning, eave, or other overhang; or by other facility
as determined by the Hearings Body or Planning Director that protects the bicycle from
direct exposure to the elements.
b. Unsheltered parking may be provided by bicycle racks.
2. Location.
a. Required bicycle parking that is located outdoors shall be located on- site within 50 feet
of main entrances and not farther from the entrance than the closest motor vehicle
parking space.
i. Bicycle parking shall be located in areas of greatest use and convenience to
bicyclist.
ii. Such bicycle parking shall have direct access to both the public right of way
and to the main entrance of the principal use.
iii. Bicycle parking shall not impede or create a hazard to pedestrians.
iv. Parking areas shall be located so as not to conflict with clear vision areas as
prescribed in DCC 18. 116.020.
b. Bicycle parking facilities shall be separatedfrom motor vehicle parking and drive areas
by a barrier or sufficient distance to prevent damage to the parked bicycle.
c. Where bicycle parking facilities are not directly visible and obvious from the public
right(s) of way, entry and directional signs shall be provided to direct bicyclists for the
public right of way to the bicycle parking facility. Directions to sheltered facilities
inside a structure may be signed, or supplied by the employer, as appropriate.
3. Dimensional Standards.
a. Each bicycle parking space shall be at least two by six feet with a vertical clearance of
seven feet.
b. An access aisle of at least five feet wide shall be provided and maintained beside or
between each row of bicycle parking.
c. Each required bicycle parking space shall be accessible without moving another
bicycle.
4. Surface. The surface of an outdoor parkingfacility shall be surfaced in the same manner as
the motor vehicle parking area or with a minimum of one- inch thickness of aggregate
material. This surface will be maintained in a smooth, durable, and well- drained condition.
5. Security.
a. Bicycle parking facilities shall offer security in the form of either a lockable enclosure
in which the bicycle can be stored or a stationary object (i. e., a " rack") upon which the
bicycle can be locked. Structures that require a user- suppliedlock shall accommodate
both cables and U- shapedlocks and shall permit the frame and both wheels to be
secured ( removing the front wheel may be necessary). All bicycle racks, lockers, or
other facilities shall be permanently anchored to the surface of the ground or to a
structure.
b. Lighting shall be provided in a bicycle parking area so that all facilities are thoroughly
illuminated and visible from adjacentsidewalks or motor vehicle parking.
6. Other means that provide the above level of bicycle parking may be approved by the
Hearings Body or the Planning Director.
Ord. 2010- 010 § 1, 2010; Ord. 93- 005 §4, 1993)
PAGE 2 OF 2 - EXHIBIT " A" TO ORDINANCE 2010- 010
Conformance with the Comprehensive Plan - Transportation System Plan
Section 23. 64.190, Facility Requirements
The TPR has various requirements relating to bicycle facilities such as bike
parking amounts and area, and employee considerations such as shower and
changing facilities. Most of these requirements have already been implemented
through Deschutes County ordinances, but are reinforced here with goals and
policies.
Goal. Maintain the existing development requirements for bicycle facilities
in Deschutes County.
2. Policy. Deschutes County shall maintain and update as necessary the
existing ordinance requirements for bicycle facilities found in Title
18. 116.031, or such other location that it may be moved to within the
Deschutes County Development Code.
FINDING: County Planning staff initiated an update to the bicycle parking standards in
DCC Title 18, given the now almost 17- year history associated with these standards.
Staff believes and the Board of County Commissioners agree, that the bicycle parking
standards should be amended to provide for exceptions in certain circumstances and
projects, because the projects that meet the exception criteria are not likely to be of the
type to which people will ride their bicycles in the unincorporated areas of the County.
Therefore, the text amendment allows for areas outside of unincorporated communities,
the resort communities, and destination resorts in the county, to have the possibility for
an exception to the bicycle parking standards. The proposed changes will not prevent
any future landowner from providing bicycle parking if they so desire.
PAGE 1 OF I -EXHIBIT " B" TO ORDINANCE 2010- 010