REVIEWED
95- 0101- 2 Bw(,j
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHU 0U
An Ordinance Amending Title 22,
Deschutes County Development
Procedures Ordinance, of the
Deschutes County Code, and
Declaring an Emergency.
0137
o
NMI
ORDINANCE NO. 94- 059
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES
ORDAINS as follows:
COUNTY,,,--' OREGON,
Section 1. Adoption of Section 22. 36. 030. Title 22, the
Deschutes County Development Procedures Ordinance, of the Deschutes
County Code is amended to add a new section 22. 36. 030, " Extensions to
Avoid Environmental or Health Hazards," as follows:
22. 36. 030. Extensions to Avoid Environmental
or Health Hazards
A. In addition to extensions granted
pursuant to Section 22. 36. 020 and notwithstanding
any other provision of the Deschutes County Code,
a one- time extension may be granted to a tentative
plat approval and any associated land use permits
regarding the time for final plat approval where
conditions of the approval, or extensions thereof,
require or can be read to require approvals from
other agencies for sewer or water systems and ( 1)
the applicant can show that without such extension
or extensions, a health or environmental hazard or
risk thereof would continue to exist, be
exacerbated or likely would be created and ( 2) the
applicant submits a time frame and plan for
meeting the outstanding conditions with the
concurrence of a homeowner' s association having an
ownership interest in project lands and such
concurrence is demonstrated in the application.
B. Such an extension shall be
administrative, in writing, and not subject to
appeal and shall, subject to the termination
provisions of Subsection C of this section, be
granted for a time period not to exceed one year.
C. In lieu of submittal of the time frame
and plan and concurrence of the homeowner' s
association with the application, that requirement
of Subsection A of this Section may be satisfied
by conditioning approval of the extension o
require establishment of the agreed - to time fr,  ;- i;
PAGE 1 OF 1 - ORDINANCE NO. 94- 059 ( 12- 5- 94) J 101995
879,95
and plan within the first 60 days of the
period, which time line and plan shall
be deemed to be a condition of the
approval.
0. 3'7- 1622
extension
thereupon
extension
D. An extension under this section shall be
conditioned upon adherence to the time lines and
plan proposed in the extension application or as
agreed to pursuant to Subsection C of this
section.
E. Failure to demonstrate compliance with
any extension condition shall, after notice and
hearing under this Title, result in termination of
the extension granted under this section."
Section 2. Emergency. This ordinance being necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health and safety, an
emergency is declared to exist, and this ordinance takes effect on its
passage.
DATED this 5th day of December, 1994.
BO D OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
0
DESCHUTEP--
COUNTY, OREGON
NANCY PO E SC LANGEN, Chair
AT T: TOM ROOP, Commissioner
Recording Sec re ary BARRY H. SLAUGHTER, Commissioner
PAGE 2 OF 1 - ORDINANCE NO. 94- 059 ( 12- 5- 94)