REVIEWED
r f
m.
COUNTY
NANCY
DESCHUTES
CLERK Yd 2014.431
LEGAL COUNSEL COMMISSIONERS'  JOURNAL
08/29/201410,53;31AM
IwIiIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
2 4 43
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
An Ordinance Amending Deschutes County
Code 2. 37, Public Contracting Code, and ORDINANCE NO. 2014- 024
Declaring an Emergency.
WHEREAS, Oregon State Law has amended the public contracting rules; and
WHEREAS, Deschutes County' s public contracting rule is to be consistent with Oregon State Law;
now, therefore,
THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON, ORDAINS
as follows:
Section 1.   AMENDMENT.   DCC 2. 37 is amended to read as described in Exhibit " A," attached
hereto and by this reference incorporated herein, with new language underlined and language to be deleted in
strikethrough.
Section 2. EMERGENCY. This Ordinance being necessaryfor the immediate preservation of the
public peace, health and safety, an emergency is declared to exist, and this Ordinance takes effect on its passage.
Dated this 47 of L 1, 2024 BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
OF DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON
TAMMY : • NEY, Chaff
ANTHONY DEBONE, Vice Chair
ATTEST:
litry,A4AL CdetA--  Umr-
Recording Secretary ALAN UNGER, Commissioner
PAGE 1 OF 2- ORDINANCE NO. 2014- 024
Date of
1st
Reading: day of r. A- 4 f  , 2014
Date of
2nd
Reading:     _  day of  :(, 12 6c- it , 2014
Record of Adoption Vote
Commissioner Yes No Abstained Excused
Anthony DeBone
Alan Unger
Tammy Baney
Effective date:  day of A(ie   , 2014.
PAGE 2 OF 2- ORDINANCE NO. 2014- 024
Exhibit A
Chapter 2. 37.  PUBLIC CONTRACTING CODE
2. 37. 010.   Purpose- Statutory Authority.
2. 37. 020.   Model Public Contract Rules.
2. 37. 030.   Public Contract Review Board.
2. 37. 040.   Purchasing Agent.
2. 37. 050.   Definitions.
2. 37. 060.   Signature Authority.
2. 37. 065.   Competitive Sealed Proposals.
2. 37. 070.   Class Special Procurements.
2. 37. 080.   Exemption for Certain Personal Services.
2. 37. 090.   Exemption from Sealed Bids or Proposals.
2. 37. 100.   Purchases through Federal Programs.
2. 37. 110.   Contracts for Disposal of Personal Property.
2. 37. 120.   Notice of Intent to Amend; Notice to Proceed and Contract Administration.
2. 37. 130.   Qualified Pool.
2. 37. 140.   Contested Case Procedures.
2. 37. 150.   Standard Contract Provisions.
2. 37. 160.   Competitive Electronic Auction Bidding.
2. 37. 010.   Purpose- Statutory Authority.
The purpose of CDD 2.37 is to implement the provisions of ORS 279A, 279B and 279C, which may be
collectively referred to herein as the Public Contracting Code. This chapter shall be known as the
DeschutesCounty Contracting Code and may be referred to herein as" this chapter."
Ord. 2005- 010 § 1, 2005)
2. 37. 020.   Model Public Contract Rules.
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or by rule or order of the Board, the Model Rules of Public
Contract Procedure, OAR 137, divisions 46, 47, 48 and 49, herein referred to as the Model Rules, adopted
by the Oregon Attorney General, as amendedin 2008, and from time to time amended, shall be the rules of
the Deschutes County Contract Review Board. Where reference is made in these rules to any provision of
the Public Contracting Code, unless this chapter provides otherwise, the corresponding provisions of the
Model Rules shall also apply.
Ord. 2008- 023, § 1, 2008; Ord. 2005- 010 § 1, 2005)
2. 37. 030.   Public Contract Review Board.
Except as expressly delegated under this chapter or by Board Resolution,  the Board of County
Commissioners, " Board," acting in its capacity as the governing body of the County or of each and every
County service district, reserves to itself the exercise of all duties and authority of a contract review board
and a contracting agency under state law.  Where this chapter refers to the " County," unless the context
indicates a different meaning, the reference shall mean and include Deschutes County or the particular
County service district for which the Board is the governing body.
Ord. 2008- 023, § 1, 2008; Ord. 2005- 010 § 1, 2005)
2. 37. 040.   Purchasing Agent.
A.  The County Administrator is designatedasthe PurchasingAgent of the County and is herebyauthorized.
to issue or cause to be issued all solicitations and to award all County contracts for which the contract
price does not exceed $ 150, 000.  Subject to the provisions of this chapter, the Purchasing Agent may
I Chapter 2. 37 1 1.208/ 20104)
adopt and amend all solicitation materials, contracts and forms required or permitted to be adopted by
contracting agencies under the Public Contracting Code or otherwise convenient for the County' s
contracting needs.
B.  In the context of requestsfor County proposalsthe departmentdirector and in the caseof county service
districts, each administrator, director or managing board, is authorized to determine the method of
contractor selection and selection criteria.
C.  Notwithstanding ORS 279B. 075, the Purchasing Agent and in the case of county service districts, each
administrator, director or managing board, is authorizedto determinethat goods or services, or classes
of goods or services, are available from only one source, based upon one or more of the following
findings: ( 1) that the efficient utilization of existing goods requires the acquisition of compatible goods
or services; ( 2) that the goods or services required for the exchange of software or data with other public
or private agencies are available from only one source; ( 3) that the goods or services are for use in a
pilot or experimental project; or( 4) other findings that support the conclusion that the goods or services
are available from only one source. In making the determination under this subsection C the Purchasing
Agent or other authorized representative shall publish notice at least seven ( 7) days in advance and
consider any written comments or objections. At the conclusion of the seven-day notice period written
findings to justify the sole sourcedetermination shall be preparedandplaced in the contract file. A copy
of such findings shall promptly be furnished to all persons who submitted written comments or
objections.
D.  In the caseof county service districts the director, administrator or managing board is designatedasthe
purchasing agentof the district and is hereby authorizedto issueall solicitations andto award all district
contracts for which the contract price does not exceed $25, 000 unless otherwise specifically set forth in
the operating agreementbetween the County and the district.  Subject to the provisions of this chapter,
the purchasing agent of the district may adopt and amend all solicitation materials, contracts and forms
required or permitted to be adopted by contracting agencies under the Public Contracting Code or
otherwise convenient for the district' s contracting needs.
E.  Whenever the Oregon State Legislative Assembly enacts laws or the attorney general modifies the
Model Rules, the County Legal Counsel shall review this chapter and recommend to the Board any
modifications required to ensure compliance with changes in state law or the Model Rules.
Ord. 2008- 023, § 1, 2008; Ord. 2005- 010 § 1, 2005)
2. 37. 050.   Definitions.
The following terms used in this chapter shall have the meanings set forth below:
A.  " Award" means the selection of a person to provide goods, services or public improvements under a
public contract.  The award of a contract is not binding on the County until the contract is executedby
the person and the County.
B.  " Bid" means a binding, sealed, written offer to provide goods, services or public improvements for a
specified price or prices.
C.  " Concessionagreement" meansa contract that authorizes and requires a private entity or individual to
promoteor sell, for its own businesspurposes, specifiedtypesof goodsor servicesfrom realproperty
owned or managedby the County, and under which the concessionairemakespayments to the County
based, at least in part, on the concessionaire' s revenues or sales. The term" concession agreement" does
not include a mere rental agreement, license or lease for the use of premises.
D.  " Contract price" means the total amount paid or to be paid under a contract, including any approved
alternates,andany fully executedchangeorders or amendments.
E.  " Debarment" meansa declaration by the PurchasingAgent or the Board under ORS 279B.130 or ORS
279C.440 that prohibits a potential contractor from competing for the County' s public contracts for a
prescribed period of time.
F.  " Disposal" meansany arrangementfor the transfer of personalproperty by the County under which the
County relinquishes ownership.
I Chapter 2. 37 2 1208/20104)
Cl.  " Emergency" means circumstances that: ( 1) could not have been reasonably foreseen; ( 2) creates a
substantial risk of loss, damageor interruption of services or a substantial threat to property, public
health, welfare or safety; and( 3) requires prompt execution of a contract to remedy the condition.
H.  " Findings" are the statements of fact that provide justification for a determination.   Findings may
include, but are not limited to, information regarding operation, budget and financial data; public
benefits; cost savings; competition in public contracts; quality and aesthetic considerations, value
engineering;  specialized expertise needed; public safety; market conditions; technical complexity;
availability, performanceand funding sources.
I.   " Goods" means any item or combination of supplies, equipment, materials or other personal property,
including any tangible, intangible and intellectual property andrights and licensesin relation thereto.
J.   " Informal solicitation" means a solicitation made in accordance with the Contracting Code and this
chapter to a limited number of potential contractors, in which the Solicitation Agent attempts to obtain
at least three quotes or proposals.
K.  " Invitation to bid" meansa publicly advertisedrequestfor competitive sealedbids.
L.  " Offeror" means a person who submits a bid, quote or proposal to enter into a public contract with the
County.
M. " Personal services contract" means a contract with an independent contractor predominantly for
services that require special training or certification,  skill,  technical,  creative,  professional or
communication skills or talents, unique and specialized knowledge, or the exercise of judgment or
skills, and for which the quality of the service depends on attributes that are unique to the service
provider.  Personal services include, but are not limited to, the services of architects, engineers, land
surveyors,  attorneys,  auditors and other licensed professionals,  artists,  designers,  computer
programmers, performers, consultants and property managers. The Purchasing Agent or the Board shall
have discretion to determine whether additional types of services not specifically mentioned in this
paragraph fit within the definition of personal services.
N.  " Proposal" means a binding offer to provide goods,  services or public improvements with the
understanding that acceptance will depend on the evaluation of factors other than, or in addition to,
price. A Proposalmay be madein responseto a requestfor proposalsor under aninformal solicitation.
O.  " Qualified pool" means a pool of vendors who are pre- qualified to compete for the award of contracts
for certain types of contracts or to provide certain types of services.
P.  " Quote" means a price offer made in response to an informal or qualified pool solicitation to provide
goods, services or public improvements.
Q.  " Requestfor proposals" meansa publicly advertisedrequestfor sealedcompetitive proposals.
R.  " Services" means and includes all types of services ( including construction labor) other than personal
services.
S.  " Solicitation" means an invitation to one or more potential contractors to submit a bid, proposal, quote,
statement of qualifications or letter of interest to the County with respect to a proposed project,
procurement or other contracting opportunity.  The word " solicitation" also refers to the process by
which the County requests, receives and evaluates potential contractors and awards public contracts.
T.  " Solicitation Agent" means with respect to a particular solicitation or contract, the County employee
charged with responsibility for conducting the solicitation and making an award,  or making a
recommendation on award to a department head, the Purchasing Agent or the Board.
U.  " Solicitation documents" means all informational materials issued by the County for a solicitation,
including, but not limited to advertisements, instructions, submissionrequirementsand schedules,award
criteria, contract terms and specifications, and all laws, regulations and documents incorporated by
reference.
V.  " Surplusproperty" meanspersonalproperty owned by the County, which is no longer neededfor use by
the departmentto which suchproperty hasbeenassigned.
Ord. 2008- 023, § 1, 2008; Ord. 2005- 010 § 1, 2005)
Chapter 2. 37 3 1205/ 20104)
2. 37. 060.   Signature Authority.
A.  Each County Department Head and each elected County official designated as a department head
uiiltss expressly . iovided otlierw is. hy_ the 13oa1d of County Commissioners) S)  is authorized to award
competitive bids and proposals and enter into contracts in an amount not to exceed $ 25, 000 for each
contract, provided sufficient sums are appropriated and unencumbered in the County or, as applicable,
district budget and there are sufficient cash resources available to pay the maximum consideration set
forth in each and every contract
B.  The County Administrator is authorized to award competitive bids and proposals and enter into
contracts in an amount not to exceed $ 150,000 for any single contract, provided sufficient sums are
appropriated and unencumbered in the County budget and there are sufficient cash resources available
to pay the maximum consideration setforth in each and every contract. For purposesof this subsection
contracts shall include agreementsbetweenthe county and any public entity, including federal, stateand
local governments.
C.  In determining the monetary limits of authority to enter into contracts on behalf of the County, the cost
or price for the entire term, including optional renewals shall be considered.
I  (Ord. 2008- 023, § 1, 2008; Ord. 2005- 010 § 1, 2005; Ord. 2014- 024)
lid
4-f
itl r-eoun y-stef4 staffof another public contracting entity, a consultant retainedlly-the eu3u+tty for
ouchpurposeor any combination oldie foregoing,.
upon- thrive value of sueh laotor--+ - t   -   . .
l. p{+ l.
Ofd. 2008 023, 41, 2008)
2. 37. 065. Competitive Sealed Proposals - repealed by Ord. 201.4-024.
2. 37. 070.   Class Special Procurements.
A.  The County may award a public contract under a Class Special Procurement pursuant to the
requirements of ORS 279B. 085. Such procurements allow the County to enter into one or more
contracts over time without following the requirements of competitive sealed bidding, competitive
sealed proposals or intermediate procurements.
B.  The Board of County Commissioners declaresthe following as classesof special procurements. Such
contracts may be awarded in any manner, which the Solicitation Agent deems appropriate to the
County' s needs, including by direct appointment or purchase.  Except where otherwise provided the
Solicitation Agent shall make a record of the method of award.
1.   Manufacturer Direct Supplies. The County may purchase goods directly from a manufacturer
without competitive bidding if a large volume purchase is required and the cost from the
manufacturer is the same or less than the cost the manufacturer charges to its distributor( s).
Procurements of this type are made on a contract- by- contract basis and are not requirements
contracts.
2.   Purchaseof Advertising Contracts. Contracts for the placing of notices or advertisementsmay be
published in any medium.
Chapter 2. 37 4 1-208/ 20104)
3.   Contracts Up to $ 10x, 000.  Contracts of any type for which the contract price does not exceed
105, 000 without a record of the method of award.
4.   Copyrighted Materials; Library Materials. The County may purchase copyrighted materials where
there is only one known supplier available for such goods. This includes, but is not limited to,
works of art, books, periodicals, curriculum materials, reference materials, audio and visual media,
training materials in any media and non-massmarketed software from a particular publisher or its
designated distributor.
5.   Requirements Contracts. The County may competitively select a vendor to provide specified goods
and services that are routine or repetitive over a defined contract term at particular prices even
though the precise volume or number of such purchases is not known in advance.
6.   Use of Existing Contractors. When a public improvement is in need of minor alteration or repair at
or near the site of work being performed by another County contractor, the County may hire that
contractor to perform the work, provided:
a.   The contractor was hired through a selection process permitted by County Code;
b.   The Solicitation Agent first obtains a price quotation for the additional work from the
contractor that is competitive and reasonable;
c.   The total cost of the proposed work and the original work will not exceed the Bureau of
Labor and Industries' prevailing wage threshold; and
d.   The original contract is amended to reflect the new work and is approved by the Purchasing
Agent before work begins.
7.   Purchase of Used Personal Property or Equipment. The County may directly purchase used
personal property and equipment if such property is suitable for the County' s needs and can be
purchasedfor a lower cost than substantially similarly new property.  For this purposethe cost of
used property shall be based upon the life- cycle cost of the property over the period for which the
property will be used by the County.
8.   Hazardous Material Removal and Oil Clean-up. When ordered to clean up or remove hazardous
material or oil by the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality, the County may directly
acquire such services from any qualified or certified vendor. In doing so, the following conditions
apply:
a.   To the extent reasonableunder the circumstances, encourage competition by attempting to
obtain informal price quotations or proposals from potential suppliers of goods and services.
b.   The county department responsible for managing or coordinating the clean- up shall prepare and
submit to the Purchasing Agent a written description of the circumstances that require it and a
copy of the DEQ order for the cleanup ,together with a requestfor contract authorization;
c.   The county department shall record whether there was time for competition, and, if so, the
measures taken to encourage competition, the amount of the price quotations obtained, if any,
and the reason for selecting the contractor to whom award is made; and
d.   The timeline for cleanupdoesnot permit useof intermediateor formal procurementprocedures.
9.   Change orders and amendments to contracts and price agreements. The County may execute
contract amendments and change orders, as follows:
a.   An original valid contract exists between the parties;
b.   The change order is within the general scope of the contract;
c.   The change order is implemented in accordance with the change provisions of the contract;
d.   The amount of the aggregate cost change resulting from all change orders does not exceed
twenty- five( 25%) of the initial contract; and
e.    The change order does not modify the contract' s terms and conditions except to reflect a
change in:
i)  the amount of payments;
ii) technical specifications, time of delivery, place of delivery, form of delivery, quantity or
manufacturer of services or goods;
iii) completion date of the project;
I Chapter 2. 37 5 4208/ 20104)
iv) any combination of the foregoing under the Contract; and ( v) the amounts of any
applicable performance and payment bonds are proportionally increased.
d.   Contract change orders are authorized under this subsection where the original contractor is
allegedly in default and the contractor' s surety can provide substitute performance pursuant to
the original contract to complete or correct the work at hand.
10. Concession Agreements. Contracts entered into by the Fair and Expo Center which grant a
franchise or concession to a private entity or individual to promote or sell, for its own business
purposes, specified types of goods or services from all or a portion of the fairgrounds and under
which the concessionaire or promoter makes payments to the Fair and Expo Center based, at least in
part, on the concessionaire' s revenues from sales or the value of such promotion to the sponsor' s
business, whether on or off the fairgrounds property. The Director of the Fair and Expo Center
shall, subject to approval of the Deschutes County Fair Board, prepare and implement selection
criteria, based upon the proprietary nature of the Fair and Expo Center. A Concession Agreement
does not include an agreement, which represents a rental, lease, license, permit or other arrangement
for the use of public property. The Fair and Expo Center Director may award concession
agreementsin connection with the annual fair by any method deemedappropriate by the Director,
including without limitation, by direct appointment, private negotiation, from a qualified pool, or
using a competitive process.
11. Equipment Repair.  Contracts for equipment repair or overhauling, provided the service or parts
required areunknown and the cost cannotbe determinedwithout extensivepreliminary dismantling
or testing.
12. Abandoned, Seizedand Non-Owned PersonalProperty.  Contracts or arrangementsfor the sale or
other disposal of abandoned, seizedor other personalproperty not owned by the County at the time
the County obtains possession are not subject to competitive procurement procedures.
13. SponsorshipAgreements. Sponsorshipagreements,underwhich the County receivesa gift, donation or
consideration in exchange for official recognition of the person making the donation or payment
may be awarded by any method deemed appropriate by the County, including without limitation, by
direct appointment,negotiation, from a qualified pool, or using a competitive process.
14. Renewals. Contracts that are being renewed in accordance with their terms are not considered to be
newly issuedContracts andarenot subjectto competitive procurement procedures.
15. Temporary Extensions or Renewals.  Contracts for a single period of one year or less, for the
temporary extension or renewal of an expiring and non- renewable, or recently expired contract,
other than a contract for public improvements.
16. Temporary Use of County- Owned Property.  The County may negotiate and enter into a license,
permit or other contract for the temporary use of County-owned property without using a
competitive selection process
a.   The contract results from an unsolicited proposal to the County basedon the unique attributes
of the property or the unique needs of the proposer;
b.   The proposed use of the property is consistent with the County' s use of the property and the
public interest; and
c.   The County reservesthe right to terminate the contract without penalty, in the event that the
County determines that the contract is no longer consistent with the County' s present or
planned use of the property or the public interest.
17. Event agreements between the Fair and Expo Center and private parties, which represent a rental,
lease, license, permit or other arrangement for the use of a portion of the fairgrounds property
whether a fee is paid or not.
18. Franchises for cable television and for collection and disposal or processing of solid waste and
recyclable material.
19. Leases and revocable permits for use of county- owned real property, including right- of- way.
20. Contracts for paperproducts which are specified to be usedin conjunction with the County Clerk' s
election ballot tabulation equipment.
21. Collective bargaining agreements
I Chapter 2. 37 6 4- 0K/20104)
22. Contracts with areahumane societies, which generally involve receipt, care for and disposition of stray
domestic animals.
I  (Ord. 2008- 023, § 1, 2008; Ord. 2005- 010 § 1, 2005; Ord. 2014- 024)
2. 37. 080.   Exemption for Certain Personal Services.
A.  The County may award contracts for personal services, as defined in DCC 2.37.050, under the
procedures of ORS 27918. 0541-to 4744. 45- 279C. 100 tlirougli 279C, 125_ and the Model Rules which
implement such statutes, or subsection B of this section without following the selection procedures set
forth elsewhere in the Model Rules.
B.  Direct Appointment. in any of the following circumstancesa qualified provider of personal services
may be appointedunderany methoddeemedin the County's bestinterestby the SolicitationAgent,
including by direct appointment.
1.   Under circumstanceswhich could not reasonablyhavebeen foreseenwhich createa substantialrisk
of loss, damage, interruption of services or threat to the public health and safety and require the
prompt performance of the services to remedy the situation; or
2.   Where the estimated fee does not exceed $ 25,000 in any fiscal year or$ 150,000 over the full term,
including optional renewals; or
3.   Contracts of not more than $ 150,000 for the continuation of work by a contractor who performed
preliminary studies, analysis or planning for the work under a prior contract may be awarded
without competition if the prior contract was awarded under a competitive process and the
Solicitation Agent determines that use of the original contractor will significantly reduce the costs
of or risks associated with the work.
4.   Contracts for maintenance, repair and technical support for computer hardware, software and
networking systems.
5.   Servicesprovided by a psychologist, psychiatrist or psychiatric nursepractitioner.
C.  Direct appointment pursuant to this section shall be competitive to the extent practicable and may be
based upon criteria which include without limitation the provider' s experience, available resources, the
project' s location and the provider' s pricing.
D.  The County may selecta provider of personal servicesunder this sectionfrom a qualified pool, or from:
1.   The County' s current list of qualified providers;
2.   From another public contracting agency's current list of qualified providers pursuant to an.
intergovernmental agreement; or
3.   From among all qualified providers offering the necessary services that the County can reasonably
locate under the circumstances.
E.  Design- Build or Construction Manager/ General Contractor. Contracts for the construction of public
improvements using a design/build or construction manager/general contractor construction method
shall be awarded under a request for proposals.   The determination to construct a project using a
design/build or construction manager/general contractor construction method must be approved by the
Board or its designee, upon application of the Purchasing Agent and in compliance with competitive
bidding requirements as specified in ORS 279A. 065( 3)...., in which thePurchasingAgentsubmitsfacia
fusull in cost suvingk;, higher quality, reducederrom, or other benefits to the County.
Ord. 2008- 023, § 1, 2008; Ord. 2005- 010 § 1, 2005;. Ord. 20.1.4.-024)
2. 37. 090.    Exemption from Sealed Bids or Proposals.
hi addition to the contracts not subject to the Public Contracting Code, pursuant to ORS 279A.025, and
contracts which are exempt from competitive bidding and proposal requirements under this chapter,
contractsmay be awardedasfollows:
A.  Contracts, other than contracts for personal services, may be awarded without competitive sealedbids
under ORS 279B. 055 and without competitive sealed proposals under ORS 279B. 060, pursuant to ORS
Chapter 2. 37 7 4-208/ 20104)
279B.065, 279B.070, 279B.075, 279B.080, or 279B.085 and the Model Rules for the following classes
of cases:
1.   The Purchasing Agent determines that an emergency condition exists which requires prompt
execution of a contract. The determination shall be made prior to execution of a contract and part of
the acquisition record. Exemption under this paragraph shall include exemption from bid security
and payment and performance bond requirements. An amendment to any contract entered into
pursuant to this paragraph shall be approved in accordance with required procurement procedures.
2.   Contractsunder$ 1l) 5000 neednot be awardedcompetitively.
3.   Contracts exceeding  $ 10,: 5000 but not exceeding  $ 1507. 5, 000,  where competitive quotes or
proposals are obtained.
OW. - w1    . 4.)omputiiivu written quotes of
B.  Where a contract is awarded under paragraphs 3 or 4 of subsection A of this section, the department
awarding the contract shall obtain at least three( 3) informally solicited quotesor proposals, if possible;
shall document in its records the quotes and proposals received, and if fewer than three, the effort that
was made to obtain quotesor proposals. A quote or proposal received by telephone shall be considered
a written quotewhen it is recordedin recordsof the County. A quote or proposal receivedby email shall
be considereda written quoteor proposal when it is receivedby the County.
C.  If a contract is awarded under this section, the County shall award the contract to the offeror whose
quote or proposal will best serve the County' s interests, taking into account price, as well as,
considerationsincluding, butnot limited to experience, expertise, productfunctionality, suitabilityfor a
particular purpose and contractor responsibility under ORS 279B. 110.
D.  The Board may approve a contract specific specialprocurementif it finds after giving notice pursuantto
ORS 279B.055(4) that a written requestsubmitted by the PurchasingAgent demonstratesthat the use of
a special procurement as described in the request, or in alternative procedures described by the
Purchasing Agent will:
1.   Be unlikely to encouragefavoritism in the awarding of public contractsor to substantially diminish
competition for public contracts; and
2.   Is reasonably expected to result in substantial cost savings to the county or to the public, or
otherwise substantially promote the public interest in a manner that could not practicably be
realized by complying with requirements that are applicable under ORS 279B.055, 279B.060,
279B. 065 or 279B. 070.
E.  Unless otherwise provided in the contract or purchase order, the provisions of Section 2. 37. 150 shall
apply to all contracts entered into pursuant to this section.
I  (Ord. 2008- 023, § 1, 2008;, Ord. 2014- 024)
2. 37. 100.   Purchases through Federal Programs.
Goods and servicesmay be purchasedwithout competitive proceduresunder a local governmentpurchasing
program administered by the United States General Services Administration (" GSA") as provided in this
section.
A.  The procurementmust be made in accordancewith proceduresestablishedby GSA for procurementsby
localgovernments,andunderpurchaseordersor contractssubmittedto andapprovedby thePurchasing
Agent or the Board.  The Solicitation Agent shall provide the Purchasing Agent with a copy of the
letter, memorandum or other documentation from GSA establishing permission to the County to
purchase under the federal program.
B.  The price of the goodsor servicesmustbe establishedunderprice agreementsbetweenthe federally
approved vendor and GSA.
C.  The price of the goods or services must be less than the price at which such goods or services are
available under stateor local cooperativepurchasingprograms that are available to the County.
D.  If a single purchase of goods or services exceeds $ 150, 000, the Solicitation Agent must obtain informal
written quotes or proposals from at least two additional vendors (if reasonably available) and find, in
Chapter 2. 37 8 108/ 20104)
writing, that the goods or services offered by GSA represent the best value for the County.  This
subsectiondoesnotapplyto thepurchaseof equipmentmanufacturedor soldsolelyfor military or law
enforcement purposes.
Ord. 2008- 023, § 1, 2008; Ord. 2005- 010 § 1, 2005)
2. 37. 110.   Contracts for Disposal of Personal Property.
A.  GeneralMethods.  Exceptasotherwiseprovidedin subsectionE of this section, surpluspropertymay
be disposedof by any of the following methodsupon a determination by the Solicitation Agent that the
method of disposal is in the best interest of the County.   Factors that may be considered by the
Solicitation Agent include costs of sale, administrative costs, and public benefits to the County.  The
Solicitation Agent shall maintain a record of the reason for the disposal method selected, and the
mannerof disposal, including the name of the personto whom the surplusproperty was transferred.
1.   Governments.  Without competition, by transfer or sale to another County department or public
agency.
2.   Auction. By publicly advertised auction to the highest bidder.
3.   Bids. By publicly advertised invitation to bid.
4.   Liquidation Sale.   By liquidation sale using a commercially recognized third-party liquidator
selected in accordance with rules for the award of personal services contracts.
5.   Fixed Price Sale.  The Solicitation Agent may establish a selling price basedupon an independent
appraisal or published schedule of values generally acceptedby the insurance industry, schedule
and advertise a sale date, and sell to the first buyer meeting the sales terms.
6.   Trade- In.   By trade- in,  in conjunction with acquisition of other price- based items under a
competitive solicitation.  The solicitation shall require the offer to state the total value assigned to
the surplus property to be traded.
7.   Donation.  By donation to any organization operating within or providing a service to residents of
the County which is recognized by the Internal Revenue Service as an organization described in
section 501( c)( 3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
B.  Disposal of Property with Minimal Value.  Surplusproperty which hasa value of less than$ 500, or for
which the costs of saleare likely to exceedsaleproceedsmay be disposedof by any meansdetermined
to be cost- effective, including by disposal as waste.  The official making the disposal shall make a
record of the value of the item and the manner of disposal.
C.  Personal- Use Items. An item ( or indivisible set) of specialized and personal use with a current value of
less than $ 100, other than police officer' s handguns which may exceed $ 100 in value,  may be sold to
the employee or retired or terminated employee for whose use it was purchased.  These items may be
soldfor fair marketvaluewithoutbid andby aprocessdeemedmostefficientby thePurchasingAgent
or the Board.
D.  Restriction on Saleto County Employees. County employeesshall not be restricted from competing, as
membersof the public, for the purchaseof publicly sold surplus property, but shall not be permitted to
offer to purchaseproperty to be sold to the first qualifying bidder until at least three days after the first
dateon which notice of the saleis first publicly advertised.
E.  The provisions of this section arein addition to other methodsof disposition of surplus county property
provided by DCC chapter 2.70 and ORS 475A or analogous provisions of federal law.
Ord. 2008- 023, § 1, 2008; Ord. 2005- 010 § 1, 2005)
2. 37. 120.
Notice of Intent to Award; Notice to Proceed and Contract Administration
A.  At leastseven(7) daysbeforetheawardof a publiccontract,unlessthePurchasingAgentor theBoard
determines that sevendays is impractical, the Purchasing Agent shall post on the county' s website or
provide eachbidder or proposer notice of the county' s intent to award a contract. This subsectiondoes
Chapter 2. 37 9 1-208/ 20104)
not apply to a contract awarded as a small procurement under ORS 279B. 065, an intermediate
procurement under ORS 279B.070, a sole-source procurement under ORS 279B.075, an emergency
procurement under ORS 279B. 080 or a special procurement under ORS 279B. 085.
B.  Unless a timely protest is received and after issuing notice in accordance with subsection A of this
section, if required, the Purchasing Agent shall prepare a contract in accordance with the contractor
selection results and furnish same for the contractor' s execution.
C.  After the contractor has executed the contract and furnished bonds, if required, and proofs of insurance
the PurchasingAgent shall execute the contract, if within the PurchasingAgent' s authority, or submit
same to the Board for approval.
D.  If the Board approvesthe contract, it shall adopt an order or otherwise authorize the PurchasingAgent
to execute the contract and to approve change orders within the scope of 2. 37. 080. B. 9 or amendments
within the scope of the project for which the contract has been prepared.
E.  The contractor shall not begin work under the contract until the contract is fully executedandin the case
of public works contractsthe county has issuedand delivered a Notice to Proceed.
F.  For purchases of goods the county may indicate in the solicitation that the selected contractor will be
issued a purchase order, which refers to 2. 37. 150 for required contract terms.
Ord. 2008- 023, § 1, 2008)
2. 37. 130.   Qualified Pool.
A.  General.  To createa qualified pool, the PurchasingAgent or Board may invite prospective contractors
to submit proposals to the County for inclusion as participants in a pool of contractors qualified to
provide certain types of goods,  services,  or projects including personal services,  and public
improvements.
B.  The invitation to participate in a qualified pool shall be advertised in the manner provided for
advertisements of invitations to bid and requests for proposals by publication in at least one newspaper
of general statewide circulation.  If qualification will be for a term that exceeds one year or allows open
entry on a continuous basis, the invitation to participate in the pool must be re-published at least once
per year and shall be postedat the County' s main office and on its website.
C.  Contents of Solicitation. Requests for participation in a qualified pool shall describe the scope of goods
or services or projects for which the pool will be maintained, and the minimum qualifications for
participation in the pool, which may include, but shall not be limited to qualifications related to financial
stability, contracts with manufacturers or distributors, certification as an emerging small business,
insurance, licensure, education, training, experienceanddemonstratedskills of keypersonnel, accessto
equipment, and other relevant qualifications that are important to the contracting needsof the County.
The solicitation may provide that proposals will be evaluatedand decisions over participation will be
made based upon proposers meeting minimum qualifications,  as well as the price or rate of
compensation for particular services in the county' s best interest.
D.  The operation of eachqualified pool may be governed by the provisions of a retainer contract to which
the County and eachqualified pool participant is a party.  The Contract shall contain or incorporate by
referenceall terms required by the County, including, without limitation,  price, performance, business
registration or licensure, continuing education, equipment, staff resources, insurance, required standard.
contract terms as set forth in Section 2.37. 150 and requirements for the submission, on an annual or
other periodic basis, of evidence of continuing qualification. The selection procedures shall be objective
and open to all qualified pool participants and afford all participants the opportunity to compete for or
receive job awards. Unless expressly provided in the retainer contract, participation in a qualified pool
will not entitle a participant to an award of any County contract. The county will refer to the qualified
pool participants or any subsetof such pool establishedby the County in determining when particular
services are needed, and select the most appropriate participant for award of a contract, which may be
based upon County solicitation of additional competitive proposals.
E.  Use of Qualified Pools.   Subjectto the provisions of theseregulationsconcerningmethodsof
solicitation for classes of contracts, the Solicitation Agent or the Board shall award all contracts for
Chapter 2. 37 10 1-208/ 20104)
goodsor servicesof the type for which a qualified pool is createdfrom among the qualified participants,
unlessthe Solicitation Agent or the Board determinesthat best interestsof the County require traditional
solicitation, in which case, pool participants shall be notified of the solicitation and invited to submit
competitive proposals.
F.  Amendment and Termination. The Purchasing Agent or the County may discontinue a qualified pool at
any time, or may change the requirements for eligibility as a participant in the pool at any time, by
giving notice to all participants in the qualified pool.
G.  Protest of Failure to Qualify.  The Purchasing Agent shall notify any applicant who fails to qualify for
participation in a pool that it may appeal a qualified pool decision to the Board in the manner described
in section 2. 37. 140.
Ord. 2008- 023, § 1, 2008; Ord. 2005- 010 § 1, 2005)
2. 37. 140.   Contested Case Procedures.
A.  Any person who has been debarred from competing for County contracts or for whom prequalification
has been denied, revoked or revised, or who would be entitled under the Public Contracting Code and
who wishes to file a protest must appealthe County' s decision to the Board asprovided in this section.
The Board may conduct a de novo hearing or appoint a hearing officer to conduct such a hearing and
recommenda decision, in which casethe Board shall considerthe matter on the record developedby the
hearing officer, and, if specifically allowed by the Board, on de novo review or limited de novo review.
B.  For purposes of this section," Party" means:
1.   Eachperson entitled asof right to a hearing before the Board;
2.   Each person named by the County to be a party; or
3.   Any person requestingto participate before the agencyas a party or in a limited party statuswhich
the County determines either has an interest in the outcome of the County' s proceeding or
represents a public interest in such result.
C.  Filing of Appeal.  The person must file and the County must receive a written ( hard copy, not fax or
electronic) notice of appeal with the Purchasing Agent no later than seven( 7) days after the prospective
contractor's receipt of notice of the County' s decision which is the subject of the protest. If the seventh
day falls on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, the deadline shall be extended to the next regular
businessday. The notice of the County' s decision shall be deemedreceived no later than three (3) days
after the date on which the County makes the decision. Except as otherwise provided in this section, the
contentsand filing of protests shall be in accordancewith the Public Contracting Code( ORS 279B.400
to 279B.425) andthe Model Public Contracting Rules( OAR 137-047-0700 to 137-047-0800).
D.  Parties may elect to be represented by counsel and to respond and present evidence and argument on all
issues involved.
E.  Unless precluded by law, informal disposition may be made of any case by stipulation, agreed.
settlement, consent order, default or written agreement.
F.  Members of the Board shall place on the record a statementof the substanceof any written or oral ex
pane communications on a fact in issuemade to the member during the pendencyof the proceeding and
notify the parties of the communication and of their right to rebut such communications.
G.  The record in support of a decision shall be made at the time set for hearing or any extension thereof
approved by the Board. Testimony may be given without oath or affirmation. Cross- examination of
witnessesby partiesshall not be allowed. Providedhowever, the Board may questionany witness
appearing before it. A verbatim oral, written or mechanical record shall be made of all motions, rulings
and testimony. The Board presiding at the hearing shall ensurethat the record developedat the hearing
showsa full andfair inquiry into thefactsnecessaryfor considerationof all issuesproperlybeforethe
presiding officer. The record need not be transcribed unless requested for purposes of court review. The
party requesting transcription shall pay the cost thereof unless the Board determines on affidavit the
indigence of the requesting party.
H.  Evidence in contested cases. In contested cases:
I Chapter 2. 37 11 4-20/ 20104)
I.   Irrelevant, immaterial or unduly repetitious evidence shall be excluded but erroneous rulings on
evidence shall not preclude action on the record unless shown to have substantially prejudiced the
rights of a party. All other evidenceof a type commonly relied upon by reasonablyprudent persons
in the conduct of their serious affairs shall be admissible. The Board shall give effect to the rules of
privilege recognizedby law. Objections to evidentiary offers may be madeand shall be noted in the
record. Any part of the evidencemay be received in written form.
2.   All evidence shall be offered and made a part of the record in the case, and except for matters
stipulated to and except as provided in paragraph( 4) of this subsection, no other factual information
or evidence shall be considered in the determination of the case. Documentary evidence may be
received in the form of copies or excerpts, or by incorporation by reference. The burden of
presenting evidence to support a fact or position in a case rests on the proponent of the fact or
position.
3.   Every party shall have the right to submit rebuttal evidence.
4.   The Board may take notice of judicially cognizable facts. Partiesshall be notified at any time during
theproceedingbut in anyeventprior to the final decisionof materialofficially noticedandthey
shall be afforded anopportunity to contestthe facts so noticed.
5.   Cross- examination of witnesses is not allowed, however, questions may be tendered to the chair
who may then direct all or someof suchquestionsto a witness.
I.   Costs. The Board may allocate the County's costsfor the hearing betweenthe appellant and the County.
The allocation shall be basedupon facts found by the Board and statedin the Board's decision that, in
the Board' s opinion, warrant such allocation of costs.  If the County does not allocate costs, the costs
shall be paid by the appellant, if the decision is upheld, or by the County, if the decision is overturned.
J.   The Board shall issuea written, proposed final order, including findings of fact and conclusions of law,
and furnish a copy thereof on all parties. The proposedorder shall become final no later than seven (7)
days following the date of the proposed order, unlessthe Board within that period issuesan amended
order.
Ord. 2008- 023, § 1, 2008; Ord. 2005- 010 § 1, 2005)
2. 37. 150.    Standard Contract Provisions.
A.  Exceptas otherwiseprovidedin the solicitationdocumentor otherwiseapprovedby the Purchasing
Agent or County Legal Counsel, the following standard public contract provisions shall be included
expressly,by referenceor by URL hyperlinkwhereappropriate, in everycontractof theCounty.
1.   Contractor shall make payment promptly, as due, to all persons supplying to such contractor labor
or material for the prosecution of the work provided for in the contract, and shall be responsible for
paymentto suchpersonssupplying labor or material to any subcontractor.
2.   Contractor shall pay promptly all contributions or amounts due to the State Industrial Accident
Fundand the StateUnemploymentCompensationFund from contractoror any subcontractorin
connection with the performance of the contract.
3.   Contractor shall not permit any lien or claim to be filed or prosecutedagainstthe County on account
of any labor or material furnished, shall assumeresponsibility for satisfaction of any lien so filed or
prosecuted and shall defend against, indemnify and hold County harmless from any such lien or
claim.
4.   Contractor and any subcontractor shall pay to the Department of Revenueall sums withheld from
employees pursuant to ORS 316. 167.
5.   For public improvement and construction contracts only, if contractor fails, neglects or refusesto
make prompt payment of any claim for labor or services furnished to the contractor or a
subcontractor by any person in connection with the public contract as such claim becomes due, the
County may pay such claim to the person furnishing the labor or services and charge the amount of
the payment against funds due or to become due the contractor by reason of the contract. The
paymentof aclaim in a mannerauthorizedherebyshallnotrelievethecontractoror its suretyfrom
the obligation with respectto any unpaid claim. If the County is unable to determinethe validity of
I Chapter 2. 37 12 4-208/ 20104)
any claim for labor or services furnished, the County may withhold from any current payment due
contractor an amount equal to said claim until its validity is determined, and the claim, if valid, is
paid by the contractor or the County. There shall be no final acceptanceof the work under the
contract until all such claims have been resolved.
6.   Contractor shall make payment promptly, as due, to any person, co-partnership, association or
corporation furnishing medical, surgical, hospital or other needed care and attention, incident to
sicknessor injury, to the employeesof contractor, of all sumswhich the contractor agreedto pay or
collected or deducted from the wages of employees pursuant to any law, contract or agreement for
the purposeof providing payment for such service.
7.   With certain exceptionslisted below, contractor shall not require or permit any personto work more
than 10 hours in any one day, or 40 hours in any one week except in case of necessity, emergency,
or where public policy absolutely requires it, and in suchcasesthe personshall be paid at least time
and a half for:
a.   All overtime in excess of eight hours a day or 40 hours in any one week when the work week is
five consecutive days, Monday through Friday, or
b.   All overtime in excessof 10 hours a day or 40 hours in any one week when the work week is
four consecutive days, Monday through Friday, and
c.   All work performed on the day specified in ORS 279B.020(1) for non-public improvement
contracts or ORS 279C. 540( 1) for public improvement contracts.
For personal service contracts as designated under ORS 279A. 055, instead of( a) and ( b) above, a
laborer shall be paid at least time and a half for all overtime worked in excessof 40 hours in any
one week, except for individuals under these contracts who are excluded under ORS 653. 010 or
653.261 or under 29 USC Sections201 to 209, from receiving overtime.
Contractor shall follow all other exceptions,  pursuant to ORS 279B. 235  ( for non- public
improvement contracts) and ORS 279C. 540  ( for improvement contracts), including contracts
involving collective bargaining agreements, contracts for services and contracts for fire prevention
and suppression. This paragraph 7 does not apply to contracts for purchase of goods or personal
property.
Contractor must give notice to employeeswho work on a public contract in writing, either at the
time of hire or beforecommencementof work on thecontract, or by postinga noticein a location
frequented by employees, of the number of hours per day and days per week that the employees
may be required to work.
8.   The hourly rate of wage to be paid by any contractor or subcontractor to workers upon all public
works shall be not less than the applicable prevailing rate of wage for an hour's work in the same
trade or occupation in the locality where such labor is performed, in accordance with ORS
279C. 800 to ORS 279C. 850. For projects covered by the federal Davis- Bacon Act ( 40 USC 276a),
contractor and subcontractor shall pay workers the higher of the state or federal prevailing rate of
wage.
9.   The contractor, its subcontractors, if any, and all employers working under the contract are subject
employers under the Oregon Workers' CompensationLaw and shall comply with ORS 656.017, or
otherwise be exempt under ORS 656. 126.
10. As to public improvement and construction contracts, Contractor shall comply with all applicable
federal, state, andlocal laws andregulations, includingbut not limited to thosedealingwith the
prevention of environmental pollution and the preservation of natural resources that affect the
performance of the contract. Entities which have enacted such laws or regulations include the
following: Federal: Department of Agriculture, Forest Service, Soil Conservation Service, Army
Corps of Engineers,   Department of Energy,   Federal Energy Regulatory Commission,
Environmental Protection Agency, Department of Health and Human Services, Department of
Housing and Urban Development, Solar Energy and Energy Conservation Bank, Department of
Interior, Bureau of Land Management, Bureau of Indian Affairs, Bureau of Mines, Bureau of
Reclamation, Geological Survey, Minerals Management Service, U. S. Fish and. Wildlife Service,
Departmentof Labor, Mine Safetyand Health Administration, OccupationalSafetyand Health
I Chapter 2. 37 13 1408/ 20104)
Administration, Department of Transportation, Coast Guard, Federal Highway Administration,
Water Resources Council,  and Department of Homeland Security State:  Department of
Administrative Services,  Department of Agriculture,  Columbia River Gorge Commission,
Department of Consumerand Business Services, Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division,
Department of Energy, Department of Environmental Quality, Department of Fish and Wildlife,
Department of Forestry, Department of Geology and Mineral Industries, Department of Human
Resources,  Department of Land Conservation and Development,  Department of Parks and
Recreation,   Soil and Water Conservation Commission,   State Engineer,  Department of
Transportation, State Land Board, Water Resources Department. Local: City Councils, County
Boards of Commissioners, County Service Districts,  Sanitary Districts, Water Districts, Fire
Protection.Districts, Historical PreservationCommissions and Planning Commissions.
If new or amended statutes, ordinances, or regulations are adopted, or the contractor encounters a
conditionnot referredto in thebid documentnot causedby thecontractorandnot discoverableby
reasonable site inspection which requires compliance with federal, state, or local laws or regulations
dealing with the prevention of environmental pollution or the preservationof natural resources,both
the County and the contractor shall have all the rights and obligations specified in ORS 279C. 525 to
handle the situation.
11. The contract may be canceledat the election of County for any substantialbreach,willful failure or
refusal on the part of contractorto faithfully perform the contract accordingto its terms. The County
may terminate the contract by written order or upon request of the contractor, if the work cannot be
completedfor reasonsbeyondthe controlof eitherthecontractoror theCounty, or for anyreason
consideredto be in the public interestotherthana labordispute, or by reasonof anythird party
judicial proceeding relating to the work other than one filed in regards to a labor dispute, and when
circumstances or conditions are such that it is impracticable within a reasonable time to proceed
with a substantial portion of the work. In either case, for public improvement contracts, if the work
is suspended but the contract not terminated, the contractor is entitled to a reasonable time
extension, costs, and overhead per ORS 297C. 655. Unless otherwise stated in the contract, if the
contract is terminated, the contractor shall be paid per ORS 279C. 660 for a public improvement
contract.
12. If the County does not appropriate funds for the next succeedingfiscal year to continue payments
otherwise required by the contract, the contract will terminate at the end of the last fiscal year for
which paymentshave been appropriated. The County will notify the contractorof such non-
appropriation not later than 30 days before the beginning of the year within which funds are not
appropriated. Upon termination pursuant to this subsection, the County shall have no further
obligation to the contractor for payments beyond the termination date. This provision does not
permit the County to terminate the contact in order to provide similar services or goods from a
different contractor.
13. By execution of the contract,contractor certifies, underpenalty of perjury that:
a.   To thebestof contractor'sknowledge,contractoris notin violationof anytaxlawsdescribedin
ORS 305. 380( 4), and.
b.   Contractor has not discriminated against minority, women or small business enterprises in
obtaining any required subcontracts.
c.
Contractorpreparedits bid or proposalrelatedto this Agreementindependentlyfrom all other
biddersor proposers,andwithoutcollusion,fraudor otherdishonesty.
14. Contractor agreesto prefer goods or servicesthat have beenmanufacturedor produced in this State
if price, fitness,availability or quality areotherwise equal.
15. Contractoragreesnot to assignthe contractor anypaymentsdueunderthe contractwithout the
proposedassigneebeingfirst approvedandacceptedin writing by theCounty.
16. Contractoragreesto makeall provisionsof the contractwith the Countyapplicableto any
subcontractor performing work under the contract.
Chapter 2. 37 14 140/ 20104)
17. The County will not be responsiblefor any lossesor unanticipated costssuffered by contractor as a
result of the contractor' s failure to obtain full information in advance in regard to all conditions
pertaining to the work.
18. All modifications and amendmentsto the contract shall be effective only if in writing and executed
by both parties.
19. The contractor certifies he or she has all necessarylicenses, permits, or certificates of registration
including Construction Contractor Board registration or Landscape Contractor Board license, if
applicable), necessaryto perform the contract and further certifies that all subcontractors shall
likewise haveall necessarylicenses,permits or certificates before performing any work. The failure
of contractor to have or maintain such licenses, permits or certificates is grounds for rejection of a
bid or immediate termination of the contract.
20. Unless otherwise provided, data which originates from the contract shall be " works for hire" as
defined by the U.S. Copyright Act of 1976 and shall be owned by the County. Data shall include,
but not be limited to, reports, documents, pamphlets, advertisements, books, magazines, surveys,
studies, computer programs, films, tapes, and/or sound reproductions. Ownership includes the right
to copyright, patent, register and the ability to transfer these rights. Data which is delivered under
the contract, but which does not originate therefrom shall be transferred to the County with a
nonexclusive, royalty- free, irrevocable license to publish, translate, reproduce, deliver, perform,
dispose of and to authorize others to do so; provided that such license shall be limited to the extent
which the contractor has a right to grant such a license. The contractor shall exert all reasonable
effort to advise, the County, at the time of delivery of data furnished under the contract, of all
known or potential invasions of privacy contained therein and of any portion of such document
which was not produced in the performance of the contract. The County shall receive prompt
written notice of each notice or claim of copyright infringement received by the contractor with
respect to any data delivered under the contract. The County shall have the right to modify or
remove any restrictive markings placed upon the data by the contractor.
21. If as a result of the contract, the contractor produces a report, paper publication, brochure, pamphlet
or other document on paper which uses more than a total 500 pages of 8 %" by 11" paper, the
contractor shall use recycled paper with at least 25% post- consumer content which meets printing
specifications and availability requirements. In all other cases Contractor shall make reasonable
efforts to use recycled materials in the performance of work required under the contract.
22. Unless otherwise provided in the contract approved by county legal counsel or in the bid
documents, the current editions of the Oregon Standard Specificationsfor Construction adoptedby
the State of Oregon, and the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, shall be applicable to all
road construction projects.
23. As to contracts for lawn and landscape maintenance, the contractor shall salvage, recycle, compost
or mulch yard waste material in an approved, site, if feasible and cost- effective,
24. When a public contract is awarded to a nonresident bidder and the contract price exceeds $ 10, 000,
the contractor shall promptly report to the Department of Revenueon forms to be provided by the
department the total contract, price, terms of payment, length of contract and such other information
asthe departmentmay require before the County will make final payment on the contract.
25. In the event an action, lawsuit or proceeding, including appealtherefrom, is brought for violation of
orto interpretanyof thetermsof thecontract, eachpartyshallberesponsiblefor theirownattorney
fees,expenses,costsanddisbursementsfor said action, lawsuit, proceeding or appeal.
26. Contractoris not carryingout a functionon behalfof County, andCountydoesnot havetheright
of direction or control of the manner in which Contractor delivers services under the Contract or
exercise any control over the activities of Contractor. Contractor is not an officer, employee or
agent of County as those terms are used in ORS 30.265. Contractor covenants for itself and its
successors in interest and assigns that it will not claim or assert that Contractor is an officer,
employee or agent of the County, asthoseterms are used in ORS 30.265.
27. Contractorshall adhereto and enforcea zero tolerancepolicy for the use of alcohol and the
unlawful selling, possessionor use of drugs while performing work under the Contract.
I Chapter 237 15 208/ 20104)
28. The Contract is expressly subject to the debt limitation of Oregon counties set forth in Article XI,
Section 10,  of the Oregon Constitution,  and is contingent upon funds being appropriated
therefore.  Any provisions herein, which would conflict with law, are deemedinoperative to that
extent.
29. Contractor shall comply with all federal, state and local laws, regulations, executive orders and
ordinances applicable to the Contract.    Without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
Contractor expressly agrees to comply with the following laws, regulations and executive orders:
a)  Titles VI and VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended;
b)  Sections 503 and 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended;
c)  the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended and ORS 659A. 112 through
659A. 139;
d)  Executive Order 11246, as amended;
e)  the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996;.
0 the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended, and the Age Discrimination
Act of 1975, as amended;
g)  the Vietnam Era Veterans' Readjustment Assistance Act of 1974, as amended;
h)  ORS Chapter 659A, as amended;
i)   all regulations and administrative rules establishedpursuant to the foregoing laws; and
j)   all other applicable requirements of federal and state civil rights and rehabilitation statutes,
rules and regulations.
The above listed laws, regulations and executive orders and all regulations and administrative
rules established pursuant to those laws are incorporated by reference herein to the extent that
they are applicable to the Contract or required by law to be so incorporated.
30. Contractorandsubcontractorsshallcomplywith theOregonConsumerIdentityTheft Protection
Act( ORS 646A. 600 et seq.).
Ord. 2008- 023, § 1, 2008)
31. Indemnification. To thefullestextentauthorizedby law, Contractoragreesto indemnify, defend,
reimburse and hold harmless County, its officers, employees and agents ( the " Indemnified
Parties") from any and all threatened, alleged or actual claims, suits, allegations, damages,
liabilities, costs, expenses, losses andjudgments, including, but not limited to, those which relate
to personalor real propertydamage, personalinjury or death, attorneyandexpert/consultantfees
andcosts, andboth economicandnon-economiclosses, to the extentcausedby the negligence,
breach of contract, breach of warranty ( express or implied), or other improper conduct of
Contractor, its employees, subcontractors, or anyone for whose acts Contractor is responsible.  If
claims are asserted against any Indemnified Party by an employee of the Contractor,  a
subcontractor, anyonedirectlyor indirectlyemployedby them, or anyonefor whoseactsthey
may be liable, the Contractor' s indemnification obligation and other obligations under this section
shall not be limited by any limitation on the amount or type of damages, compensation, or
benefits payable to the employee by or for the Contractor or subcontractor under workers'
compensation acts, disability benefit acts, or other employee benefit acts.
Ord. 2010- 033, § 1, 2010)
2. 37. 160.   Competitive Electronic Auction Bidding.
A.  The County may utilize electronic or online solicitation, subject to the provisions of this Code, for the
purchase of goods as provided in this section. Any of the stepsprovided in this section prior to award
of a contract may be accomplished through the use of an agent. The objective of this procurement
method is to inform suppliers prior to the close of an auction what the current low bid is and enable
suchsuppliersto submitadditionallowerbidsprior to thecloseof biddingor awardof thecontract.
B. An invitation to bid (ITB) pursuantto this sectionshall be issuedand shall includea procurement
descriptionandall contractterms, eitherexpresslyor by reference, includingwithoutlimitationa
descriptionof the property to be purchased, requiredspecifications, numberof units, warranties,
Chapter 2. 37 16 I-208/ 20104)
delivery date and location, the pool of potential suppliers, the method by which prospective offerors
register with the county and any prequalification requirements, the county representative' s name and
contact information and the timeframe for which the auction will be open to bids. The ITB shall
include notice that bids will be received in an electronic auction manner.
C.  The Solicitation must designate both an opening date and time and a closing date and time. The
closing date and time need not be a fixed point in time, but may remain dependant on a variable
specified in the solicitation. At the opening date and time, the county must begin accepting real time
electronic offers. The solicitation must remain open until the closing date and time. The county may
require offerors to register and prequalify before the opening date and time and, as a part of that
registration, to agree to the terms, conditions, or other requirements of the solicitation. Following
receipt of the first offer after the opening date and time, the lowest offer price or, if proposals are
accepted, the ranking of each proposal ( without disclosing the identity of the proposer), must be
posted electronically to the internet and updated on a real time basis.  At any time before the closing
date and time, an offeror may lower the price of its offer or revise its proposal except that after
opening date and time, an offeror may not lower its price unless that price is below the then lowest
offer. Offer prices may not be increasedafter opening. Except for offer prices, offers may be modified
only as otherwise allowed by these rules or the solicitation document.
D.  Withdrawal of bids may be allowed in accordance with OAR 137- 047- 0470 ( Mistake). If an offer is
withdrawn, no later offer submitted by the same offeror may be for a higher price. If the lowest
responsive offer is withdrawn after the closing date and time, the county may cancel the solicitation
or reopenthe solicitationto all pre-existingofferorsby giving notice to all pre-existing offerors of
both the new opening date and time and the new closing date and time. Notice that electronic
solicitation will be reopened must be given as specified in the solicitation document.
E.  Failure of the electronic procurement system. In the event of a failure of the electronic procurement
system that interferes with the ability of offerors to submit offers, protest, or to otherwise meet the
requirements of the procurement, the county may cancel the solicitation or may extend the solicitation
by providing notice of the extension immediately after the system becomesavailable.
F.  At theconclusionof theauctiontherecordsof bidsreceivedandtheidentityof eachbiddershallbe
open to public inspection.
G.  The contract shall be awarded within 60 days by written notice to the lowest responsible bidder.
Extensionsof thedateof theawardmaybemadeby mutualwritten consentof thecontractingofficer
and the low bidder. County may reject any proposals not in substantial compliance with all prescribed
proceduresandrequirements, andmay rejectfor goodcause, anyor all proposalsupona finding that
it is in the public interest to do so.
Ord. 2008- 023, § 1, 2008)
2. 37. 170 Legal Review of Contracts ( removed)
Ord. 2008- 023, § 1, 2008; Ord. 2005- 010 § 1, 2005)
I Chapter 2. 37 17 08/ 20104)