1  –  Nondiscrimination Policy 2019-01 Adopted June 26, 2019
NONDISCRIMINATION POLICY  –  NO. 2019-01
POLICY : Grant County does not allow discrimination or harassment of any person with
regard to race, color, sex, religion, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin,
age, disability, genetic information, marital or familial status, veteran ’s status, or any other status
protected by applicable Federal, Oregon, or local law. This policy pertains to all individuals of a
protected class, including employees, volunteers, trainees, clients, individuals applying for
services and other members of the public.
REPORTING : If any discriminatory or harassment action is observed or reported the
event should  be reported as soon as possible, but no later than 60 calendar days after the alleged
violation to :
Grant County Court
201 S. Humbolt  St., Ste. 280
Canyon City, OR 97820
541-575-0059
The complaint should be in writing and contain information about the alleged discrimination
such as name, address, phone number of complainant and location, date, and description of the
condition or circumstances. Alternative means of filing complaints, such as personal interviews
or a tape recording of the complaint, will be made available for persons with disabilities upon
request.
INVESTIGATION : A  Grant County Court  member will investigate reports of discrimination
or harassment and work with Department Heads and/or Elected Officials to solve the issue
creating the action and then report back to the complainant with a satisfactory resolution. The
complaint, the investigation, the resolution, and notice to the complainant will be logged in the
Discrimination Log. Based on the investigative report confirming discriminatory, harassing or
intimidation action by an employee, the employee will: a) face corrective actions; b) receive
additional education and/or training regarding non-discriminatory actions; c) may face
termination.
In the event the action cannot be resolved to the complainant ’s satisfaction, the Grant County
Court will  hear the matter at an open public meeting of the elected body, unless the hearing
should be held in an executive session pursuant to ORS 192.660(2 ). A written decision will be
made within 30 working days. The decision of the Grant County Court is final.
DOCUMENTATION : Records of alleged discrimination and harassment shall be
maintained and retained for at least three years in the Grant County Court  Office.
UPDATING : Nondiscrimination Policy 2019-01 will be reviewed annually to ensure
compliance with applicable Federal, Oregon, or local law.