June 2013 Revision
C HAPTER 1 0  –  RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE Page 1 0  - 1
CHAPTER 10 - MARIJUANA
ARTICLE 100 –  BASIC STANDARDS FOR MARIJUANA PRODUCTION,
PROCESSING, WHOLESALE, RETAIL, RESEARCH AND LAB TESTING
100.010 - PURPOSE
The purpose of this Chapter is to describe the general requirements for establishing marijuana
businesses for the purposes of medical and recreation marijuana production, processing,
wholesale, retail, research and laboratory testing uses in Grant County.. This section does not
apply to those marijuana activities exempt under ORS 475B.301.
100.020 –  DEFINITIONS
The following definitions clarify terms found in this Chapter.
1. MARIJUANA BUSINESS.   Any operation that is involved in the production, processing,
wholesaling, or retailing of marijuana; it also includes operations for laboratory testing of
marijuana and marijuana research.  This does not include any homegrown or homemade
marijuana that is for personal consumption and complies with ORS 475B.301.
2. MARIJUANA LABORATORY.   Any operation involved in the testing of marijuana for
certain requirements related to pesticides/solvents, moisture content/water activity, and
potency, as well as any other lab testing of marijuana requested or necessary.
3. MARIJUANA PROCESSOR.   A person or business that processes marijuana items.
4. MARIJUANA PRODUCER .  A person or business that produces marijuana.
5. MARIJUANA RESEARCH.   An operation undertaking a systemic investigation of
marijuana and its attributes/characteristics.  This includes operations focused on the
development of plants to increase yield potential, resistance to disease, drought tolerance,
added product value, and any similar research uses.
6. MARIJUANA RETAILER.   A person or business that sells marijuana items to a
consumer.
7. MARIJUANA WHOLESALER .  A person or business that purchases marijuana items
for resale to a person other than a consumer.
CHAPTER 10  –  MARIJUANA Page  10  -  2
8. PROCESSES . The processing, compounding or conversion of marijuana into
cannabinoid products, cannabinoid concentrates or cannabinoid extracts.  This does not
include packaging or labeling.
9. PRODUCES.   The manufacture, planting, cultivation, growing or harvesting of
marijuana.  This does not include the drying of marijuana by a marijuana processor, if the
marijuana processor is not otherwise producing marijuana.
100.030 - APPLICATION
The standards in this Chapter relate to special characteristics of marijuana businesses and, unless
otherwise specified, are to be applied in addition to all other applicable standards prescribed in
this Code.  In the event that the standards contained in this Chapter differ from other applicable
standards in this Code, the more stringent shall apply.
These standards do not apply to homegrown and homemade marijuana, as allowed by state law,
a designated primary caregiver at their primary residence providing services to a single registry
identification cardholder, or an individual registry identification cardholder at their primary
residence.  These standards do not apply to recreational use or possession under state law, ORS
475B.479.
100.040 –  PERMITTING
A. Annual Permit Required.  The primary owner/operator of each marijuana business
operating in Grant County must possess a valid annual marijuana permit issued by the
Grant County Planning Department and must comply with all applicable state and local
laws and regulations.  The permit term will run from July 1 to June 30 of the following
year.  Permits are non-transferable.  A separate permit must be obtained for each form of
marijuana business.  The application shall be subject to Type I administrative review
under Article 21.
B. Permit Application, Renewal, Updates, Termination, Fees.  Application forms for
marijuana permits will be available at the Planning Department.  Applications for initial
and renewal permits must be completed and submitted to the Grant County Planning
Department, with the appropriate fee as specified in the Planning Department Fee
Schedule.  A separate permit application must be submitted for each proposed business
location and each license or certificate issued by the Oregon Liquor Control Commission.
A permit application will contain the following:
a. The location of the proposed business
CHAPTER 10  –  MARIJUANA Page  10  -  3
b. A description of the type, nature, and extent of the business to be conducted
c. A description of the proposed accounting and inventory systems for the business
d. Certification that the proposed business is licensed to conduct business in
compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws, regulations and
ordinances;
e. Certification that the proposed business has met the requirements of all applicable
land use and/or development laws, regulations and codes.
f. No portion of the fee is refundable if a permit is denied or the operation of the
business is discontinued for any reason.
C. Renewal Application; Fee.  A permit renewal will include information similar in nature to
the initial permit application and must be submitted to the Planning Department at least
30 days prior to expiration of the permit.  The renewal application fee will be equal to the
Type I review fee.  The fee for a permit renewal is non-refundable.
D. Termination/Expiration.  A permit terminates automatically on June 30 of each year
unless a permit renewal application is received 30 days prior to expiration and
subsequently approved.  A permit will terminate automatically and without further act of
the County if any state statutes, laws, regulations, ordinances, and/or guidelines are
modified, changed and/or interpreted in a manner by state law enforcement officials so as
to prohibit operation of the business.
E. Notification of Changes.  If a permit holder is required to provide the Oregon Liquor
Control Commission with any update, notice, report or additional disclosure pursuant to
OAR 845-025-1160 and/or any other state law or regulation, the permit holder will
supply the same information to the County.  If the supplied information necessitates a
modification of the permit, the permit holder will remit the applicable fee for an annual
renewal.
100.050 –  MARIJUANA BUSINESSES IN SPECIFIC ZONES
The following types of Marijuana Businesses are allowed in the zones specified:
A. Marijuana Production
a. Allowed outright as a farm use in Primary Forest (PF), Exclusive Farm Use
(EFU), Multiple Use Range (MUR), subject to the use standards specified below
CHAPTER 10  –  MARIJUANA Page  10  -  4
b. Allowed as a Type II Review in accordance with Article 22 in the General
Commercial (GC) and General Industrial (GI) Zones, subject to the use standards
below.
c. Prohibited in all other zones, including Rural Residential (RR), Suburban
Residential (SR), Rural Service Center (RSC).
B. Marijuana Processing
a. Allowed as a Conditional Use in accordance with Article 46 in the Exclusive
Farm Use (EFU), Multiple Use Range (MUR), General Commercial (GC) and
General Industrial (GI) Zones.
b. Prohibited in all other zones, including Primary Forest (PF), Rural Residential
(RR) , Suburban Residential (SR), Rural Service Center (RSC)
C. Marijuana Wholesale Distribution
a. Allowed outright under the definition of farm use in Exclusive Farm Use (EFU),
Multiple Use Range (MUR) and Primary Forest (PF).
b. Allowed as a Conditional Use in Accordance with Article 46 in the General
Industrial (GI) Zone.
c. Prohibited in all other zones, including General Commercial (GC), Rural
Residential (RR), Suburban Residential (SR), Rural Service Center (RSC).
D. Marijuana Retail Sales
a. Allowed as a Type II Review Procedure in accordance with Article 22 in the
General Commercial (GC) and General Industrial (GI) Zones.
b. Prohibited in all other zones, including Exclusive Farm Use (EFU), Multiple Use
Range (MUR), Primary Forest (PF), Rural Residential (RR) , Suburban
Residential (SR), Rural Service Center (RSC)
E. Marijuana Laboratory Operations
CHAPTER 10  –  MARIJUANA Page  10  -  5
a. Allowed as a Type II Review Procedure in accordance with Article 22 in the
General Commercial (GC) and General Industrial (GI) Zones.
b. Prohibited in all other zones, including Exclusive Farm Use (EFU), Multiple Use
Range (MUR), Primary Forest (PF), Rural Residential (RR) , Suburban
Residential (SR), Rural Service Center (RSC)
F. Marijuana Research
a. Allowed as a Conditional Use in conjunction with a farm use in accordance with
Article 46 in the Exclusive Farm Use (EFU), Multiple Use Range (MUR) and
Primary Forest (PF) Zones.
b. Allowed as a Conditional Use in accordance with Article 46 in the General
Industrial (GI) Zone.
c. Prohibited in all other zones, including General Commercial (GC), Rural
Residential (RR) , Suburban Residential (SR), Rural Service Center (RSC)
100.060 –  MARIJUANA USE STANDARDS
A. All recreational and medical marijuana production, processing, wholesale, retail, research
and lab testing uses that have been issued a license or certificate by or through the
Oregon Liquor Control Commission and/or Oregon Health Authority shall also hold a
land use permit from Grant County as specified in Section 100.040.
B. Marijuana Uses are allowed as specified in Section 100.050, subject to the additional
restrictions specified in this section.
C. Marijuana production is prohibited as a Home Occupation in any zone.
D. In accordance with Oregon Law, and notwithstanding ORS chapters 195, 197, 197 and
215, the following uses are not permitted uses on land designated for exclusive farm use:
a. A new dwelling used in conjunction with a marijuana crop;
b. A farm stand, as described in ORS 215.213(1)(R) or 215.283(1)(o), used in
conjunction with a marijuana crop; and
CHAPTER 10  –  MARIJUANA Page  10  -  6
c. A commercial activity, as described in ORS 215.213 (2)(c) or 215.283(2)(1),
carried on in conjunction with a marijuana crop.
E. Conformance with the standards of this section must be demonstrated through submittal
of information to the Grant County Planning Department at the time of application.
Information submitted must include a site plan, drawn to scale, depicting the subject and
surrounding properties in sufficient detail to demonstrate compliance with the standards.
The application must also include the required ventilation/filtration materials and a
lighting plan.
F. Water.  The applicant shall provide to the Grant County Planning Department:
a. Proof that the proposed use is consistent with current Oregon Water Resources
Department Statute, Rule and Policy.
b. The signature of the Oregon Water Resources Department Watermaster (or
appropriate representative) on a letter or form shall be sufficient to satisfy this
requirement.
G. Special Standards.  Marijuana uses are subject to the following standards and criteria:
a. Setbacks.
i. Outdoor Production.  Any outdoor marijuana production must be located
at a minimum of 100 feet from any exterior property line, and 300 feet
from any off site dwelling.
ii. Indoor Production.  Any structure used for indoor marijuana production
must be located a minimum of 100 feet from the nearest property line, and
300 feet from any off site dwelling.
b. Ventilation and air filtration.  Any building, including greenhouses, hoop houses
and other similar structures, used for marijuana production or marijuana
processing must be equipped with an activated charcoal or carbon filtration or
other ventilation system in conformance with the standards below.  Evidence of
the equipment and materials utilized for meeting the standards below, including
manufacturer specifications, and a design/schematic of the system showing how it
will function must be submitted with the application to the Planning Department.
CHAPTER 10  –  MARIJUANA Page  10  -  7
i. The submitted design/schematic for the system must be stamped by a
mechanical engineer that is currently licensed in the State of Oregon.
ii. The system must consist of one or more fans and filters
iii. At a minimum, the fan(s) must be sized for cubic feet per minute (CFM)
equivalent to the volume of the building (length multiplied by width
multiplied by height) divided by three.
iv. Activated charcoal or carbon filter(s) must be used in the ventilation
system and must filter all of the ventilated air.  The filter(s) must be rated
for the required CFM as calculated in iii above.
v. The filter(s) must be maintained and/or replaced in conformance with the
manufacturers specifications.
vi. The filtration system, including the activated charcoal or carbon filters,
must be maintained in working order and must be in use at all times.
vii. The opening for any exterior exhaust vent for the ventilation system must:
1. Be in a location that provides the greatest distance between the
opening for the exterior exhaust vent and any dwelling that is not
on the subject property, located within 1000 feet of the opening for
the exterior exhaust vent.
2. Be oriented in a direction that is at least 45 degrees away from any
dwelling that is not on the subject property, located within 1000
feet of the opening for the exterior exhaust vent.
viii. An alternative ventilation control systems is permitted if the applicant ’s
submittal, stamped by a mechanical engineer that is currently licensed in
the State of Oregon, demonstrates that the alternative system will filter the
air as well or better than the carbon filtration system otherwise required.
ix. A ventilation and air filtration system as described above is not required if
all of the following are met:
1. The structure and cover material are put in place for protection of
the plants from temperature variations, direct sunlight and other
weather related incidences; and
CHAPTER 10  –  MARIJUANA Page  10  -  8
2. Surrounding air is allowed to flow freely through the structure
either via a permeable covering and/or large openings that are
utilized when plants are not at risk for sun, temperature or weather
damage; and
3. The design of the structure is such that no ventilation system is
necessary to facilitate plant growth and health.
x. Site specific exceptions to the ventilation requirements may be pursued
under Article 45 of this Code.
c. Lighting.  A lighting plan showing the location and design of any and all lighting
fixtures associated with the use and how the light fixtures will be screened or
shielded in conformance with the following standards must be submitted with the
application:
i. Light cast by light fixtures associated with a marijuana production and/or
marijuana processing use, inside any building(s) or greenhouse(s) must be
screened or shielded from view from the surrounding property boundaries
from sunset to sunrise the following day.
ii. Outdoor marijuana grow lights must not be illuminated from sunset to
sunrise the following day.
iii. Light cast by exterior light fixtures other than marijuana grow lights (such
as security lights, driveway lights, etc), must not shine or direct
illumination or glare onto adjacent properties.
d. Noise.  Sustained noise from mechanical equipment used for heating, ventilation,
air condition, odor control, fans and similar functions shall not exceed 30
dB(A)  measured at any property line between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
 Intermittent noise for accepted farming practices is permitted.
e. Marijuana Processing.  Marijuana processing, other than primary processing
allowed under the definition for farm use, will only be permitted on properties
within the boundaries of a fire protection district.
f. Marijuana testing laboratory.  And marijuana testing laboratory use must be
conducted entirely indoors.
CHAPTER 10  –  MARIJUANA Page  10  -  9
g. Marijuana research may be conducted in conjunction with marijuana production
and processing or as a standalone use as specified in the applicable zone.
h. Marijuana research will be subject to the odor, noise and lighting standards.
i. Marijuana sales are prohibited at any farmer ’s market, bazaar, community sale, or
similar event.