CHAPTER 8 –  PUBLIC FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  8 -  1
CHAPTER 8 - PUBLIC FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT
STANDARDS
ARTICLE 80 - BASIC PROVISIONS
80.010 - PURPOSE
The purpose of this Chapter is to establish standards for the design and development of property
in order to protect the public health, safety, and welfare.
80.020 - APPLICATION OF CHAPTER
A. The subdivision, partition, re-plat, property line adjustment, or planned unit development
shall conform to, and be in harmony with, the Grant County Comprehensive Plan Text
and Comprehensive Plan Map of that portion of the County within which the land
division is located, and shall provide right-of-way dedication in conformance with an
official map, adopted for the County or any urban or urbanizing area within the County.
B. The requirements and standards set forth in this Chapter are the minimum which a
subdivision, partition, re-plat, property line adjustment, or planned unit development
must conform to before approval by the Review Body, except as otherwise provided in
this Code.
C. The term "land division" shall apply to all subdivisions, partitions, re-plats, property line
adjustments, or planned unit developments.
D. The standards in this Chapter shall apply to any relevant land use application and
procedure.
80.030 - IMPROVEMENT PROCEDURES
Improvements required by this Chapter shall conform to the requirements of this Code, the
Roadway and Traffic Management Plan for the Grant County Standards and Specifications for
Design and Construction of County Roads, the Grant County Transportation System Plan,
relevant City standards within an urban growth boundary, the American Association of State
Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO) standards, and any technical manuals used by
the Road Department in road development and plan review.  These manuals, as revised, are
incorporated into this Code by reference.  The following procedures shall be used:
CHAPTER 8 –  PUBLIC FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  8 -  2
A. Construction work shall not be commenced until all required plans, profiles, and
specifications have been reviewed and approved by the Road Supervisor and the
appropriate state agency.  All plans, profiles, and specifications shall be submitted prior
to final development approval;
B. Construction work shall not be commenced until the Road Supervisor has been notified;
and
C. Required improvements shall be constructed in accordance with specifications as set
forth by the Road Supervisor and inspected for conformance.  The County may require
changes in typical sections and details if unusual conditions arising during construction
warrant such change.  Any similar changes initiated by the developer must be reviewed
with, and approved by, the Road Supervisor.
D. Uses Permitted Outright.  Except where otherwise specifically regulated by this
ordinance, the following improvements are permitted outright:
1. Normal operation, maintenance, repair, and preservation activities of existing
transportation facilities.
2. Installation of culverts, pathways, medians, fencing, guardrails, lighting and
similar types of improvements within the existing right-of-way.
3. Projects specifically identified in the Transportation System Plan as not requiring
further land use regulation.
4. Landscaping as part of a transportation facility.
5. Emergency measures necessary for the safety and protection of property.
6. Acquisition of right-of-way for public roads, highways and other transportation
improvements designated in the TSP except for those that are located in EFU or
PF Zones.
7. Construction of a road or street as part of an approved subdivision or land
partition approved consistent with the applicable land division ordinance.
D. Conditional Uses Permitted:
CHAPTER 8 –  PUBLIC FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  8 -  3
1. Construction, reconstruction or widening of highways, roads, bridges or other
transportation projects that are:
a. Not improvements designated in the TSP or (2) not designed and
constructed as part of a subdivision or planned development subject to site
plan and/or conditional use review, shall comply with the TSP and
applicable standards, and shall address the following criteria.  For State
projects that require an Environmental Impact Statement or Environmental
Assessment the draft EIS or EA shall be reviewed and used for the basis
for findings to comply with the following criteria:
1) The project is designed to be compatible with existing land use and
social patterns, including noise generation, safety and zoning.
2) The project is designed to minimize avoidable environmental
impacts to identified wetlands, wildlife habitat, air and water
quality, cultural resources and scenic qualities.
3) The project preserves or improves the safety and function of the
facility through access management, traffic calming or other
design features.
4) The project includes provision for bicycle and pedestrian
circulation as consistent with the comprehensive plan and other
requirements of this ordinance.
2. Construction of rest areas, weigh stations, temporary storage and processing sites.
3. If review under this section indicates that the use or activity is inconsistent with
the TSP, the procedure for a plan amendment shall be undertaken prior to or in
conjunction with the conditional permit review.
80.040 - PARCELS SPLIT BY AN URBAN GROWTH BOUNDARY
When a parcel proposed for division lies partly within and partly outside an Urban Growth
Boundary, the standards of this Code and any more restrictive requirement of a City shall apply
within a UGB.
CHAPTER 8 –  PUBLIC FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  8 -  4
ARTICLE 81 - VEHICULAR ACCESS & STANDARDS
81.010 - PURPOSE
The purpose of these standards is to ensure safe ingress and egress to and from properties; to
minimize street congestion and traffic hazards; to provide safe and convenient access to
businesses, public services, and places of public assembly; and to make vehicular circulation
more compatible with surrounding land uses.
81.020 - ACCESS STANDARDS
A. Every lot or parcel created by a new land division shall abut a County maintained road or
street for at least 25 feet, or shall abut a State highway where the Highway Division,
Oregon Department of Transportation, has issued an access permit to each lot or parcel.
Lots or parcels that do not abut such a road or highway may be approved by the Review
Body when the following conditions exist:
1. When a parcel of land is an isolated ownership, where not more than two lots can
be developed from the original parcel or from adjoining lands, and where access
is by easement, the easement to the property line shall be continued to the
proposed parcel;
2. When a parcel of land receives access by a public usage road declared by a court
of competent jurisdiction or by a non maintained County road, and where the
Review Body finds that acceptance of such road for partitioning purposes is in the
public interest, any partitioning using those roads shall be conditioned upon the
dedication of additional right of way and improvement as required by the Review
Body.
B. No partitioning or subdivision of land shall be authorized except as permitted in Sections
in this Code and as above, using any special purpose roads, including ways of necessity,
special access roads under the permit control of the Secretaries of Agriculture or the
Interior, timber access roads, or other roads in which the rights of the public for access
may be restricted.
81.030 - GENERAL ROADWAY DESIGN CRITERIA & STANDARDS
The location, width, and grade of streets shall be considered in relation to existing and planned
streets, to topographical conditions, to public safety, and to the proposed use of the land to be
served by the street.
CHAPTER 8 –  PUBLIC FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  8 -  5
81.040 - STREET CREATION WITHIN A LAND DIVISION
The creation of a street within a subdivision, partition, re-plat, or planned unit development, shall
be in full compliance with the platting requirements contained in this Code and applicable City
and/or State regulations.  No person shall create a street or road for the purpose of subdividing,
partitioning, re-plating, or creating a planned unit development, on an area or tract of land
without County approval.
81.050 - STREET CREATION OUTSIDE A LAND DIVISION
A. The provision of right of way for creation of streets outside of a subdivision, partition, re-
plat, or planned unit development, where streets are not shown on an adopted
Transportation Plan shall be in conformance with the County Road Standards, except that
the Review Body may approve the creation of a street by deed without full compliance
with platting regulations provided any of the following conditions exist:
1. The establishment of the street is initiated by the County Court and is declared
essential for the general traffic circulation;
2. The street is to provide access to parcels that were created prior to the enactment
of this Code;
3. The street is necessary to provide access intervening between a proposed
subdivision, partition, re-plat, or planned unit development and a public road;
4. The street may be established as a condition of Site Plan Review to facilitate the
safe ingress and egress of a particular use.
B. In all cases, the creation of a street shall be consistent with the elements of the
Comprehensive Plan; shall not disrupt the stability of the land use pattern in the area; and
will promote and conserve the public health, safety, and welfare.  The Review Body may
deny the request or refer the request for the creation of a street to a public hearing where,
in the Review Body's opinion, the request would be in conflict with the provisions in
Section 81.050(A).
81.060 - SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED DEED
A. In cases where approval of a street is to be without full compliance with the regulations
applicable to subdivisions, partitions, re-plats, property line adjustments, or planned unit
developments, a copy of the proposed deed shall be submitted to the Review Body.
CHAPTER 8 –  PUBLIC FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  8 -  6
B. The deed and any information which may be submitted shall be reviewed by the Review
Body and the Road Supervisor, and, if not in conflict with the design standards of this
Code, may be approved with any conditions necessary to comply with these standards.
C. Requirements for the creation of a street by deed must include engineering data, plan and
profile, and the construction of the street to the appropriate standards.
81.070 - EASEMENTS
Easements for public facilities, public or private utilities, slopes, drainage, etc., shall be
dedicated wherever necessary.  The Review Body may require the developer to acquire and
dedicate easements on adjoining property when necessary to protect the public health, safety, and
general welfare.
81.080 - RELATION TO ADJOINING STREET SYSTEM
A. Applicants for a subdivision, partition, re-plat, property line adjustment, planned unit
development or Site Plan Review shall provide for the continuation of the principal
streets existing in adjoining subdivisions or of their proper projection when the adjoining
property is not subdivided.  The streets shall be a width not less than the minimum
requirements for streets set out in Sections 81.130(A) and 81.200(F).
B. Where, in the opinion of the Review Body, topographic conditions make the continuation
or conformity impractical with the existing, principal streets, an exception may be made.
C. Where an adopted neighborhood, area, or rural community plan is in place, the
subdivision partition, re-plat, property line adjustment, or planned unit development shall
conform to the adopted plan.
D. Where the plat submitted covers only a part of the developer's tract, a drawing of the
prospective future street system on the part submitted shall be considered in light of its
conformity to the street system of the entire tract.
E. Loop road systems are to be provided where possible in order to provide more than one
route for traffic in the case of an emergency.  Cul-de-sac roads are to be kept as short as
practical to facilitate better emergency access.
CHAPTER 8 –  PUBLIC FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  8 -  7
81.090 - FUTURE EXTENSION OF STREETS
A. Where necessary to give access to, or permit a satisfactory future subdivision, partition,
re-plat, or planned unit development on adjoining land, the Review Body may require
that streets be extended to the boundary of the subdivision or partition and the resulting
dead end streets may be approved without a turnaround.
B. Street plugs may be required to preserve the objectives of street extensions, the control of
which shall rest with the County Court according to their sole discretion.
81.100 - HALF STREETS
A. While generally not acceptable, half streets may be approved where they can be shown to
be essential to the reasonable development of the subdivision, partition, re-plat, or
planned unit development.  The use of half streets must be in conformity with any other
requirements of this Code, and when possible shall require the dedication for construction
of the other half, at the time any adjoining property is subdivided, partitioned, re-plated,
or a planned unit development is created.
B. Whenever an existing half street is adjacent to land to be subdivided, the remaining half
of the street shall be dedicated and constructed within the subdivision, partition, re-plat,
or planned unit development.  Street plugs may be required to ensure the objectives of
obtaining full width streets.
81.110 - ALIGNMENT AT INTERSECTIONS
As far as practical, streets shall be in alignment with existing streets by continuing the center
lines.  Staggered street alignment resulting in "T" intersections shall, wherever practical, leave a
minimum distance of 260 feet between the center lines of streets having approximately the same
direction.
81.120 - STREETS ABUTTING A LAND DIVISION
A. At a minimum, applicants for subdivisions, partitions, re-plats, property line adjustments,
planned unit developments and Site Plan Review shall provide streets, of the appropriate
standards, connecting directly to an existing publicly maintained street.
B. Where the right of way of an existing street, which directly abuts any land division, does
not meet the appropriate rural standard, the applicant shall dedicate the right of way
required to meet the standard unless exempted by another Section of this Code.
CHAPTER 8 –  PUBLIC FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  8 -  8
C. At County discretion, street improvements shall be constructed to an equivalent dollar
amount of the half width rural standard.  Design standards for rural roads shall be in
conformance with this Code, the Roadway and Traffic Management Plan for Grant
County Standards and Specifications for Design and Construction of County Roads,
relevant City street standards, the AASHTO standards, and any technical manuals used
by the Road Department in road development and as provided in Section 81.130(A).
81.130 - IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
A.
Table 1
Rural Road Standards
Standard Limited Resident Resident Local Minor
Collector
Major
Collector
Design Speed 25 mph 25 mph 35 mph 50 mph 55 mph
Lane Width 12 feet 12 feet 12 feet 12 feet 12 feet
Surface Type crushed
aggregate
oil mat oil mat -
AC
oil mat - AC AC
Grade Maximum 10% 10% 8% 6% 5%
Shoulder Width ------- 2 feet 4 feet 6 feet 8 feet
Shoulder Surface Gravel gravel oil mat -
AC
oil mat - AC AC
Structure Width 28 feet 30 feet 32 feet 36 feet 40 feet
Vertical Clearance 16 1/2 feet 16 1/2
feet
16 1/2 feet 16 1/2 feet 16 1/2 feet
Load Design
(Structure)
HS 20-44 HS 20-44 HS 20-44 HS 20-44 HS 20-44
R/W Width* 60 feet 60 feet 60 feet 60 feet 60 feet
NOTES: Grades in erosion sensitive soils as determined by the Road Supervisor will
require erosion control measures.
* Right-of-way width may be increased because of the topography of a site.
B. Improvements shall be made by the developer prior to submission of the final plat or final
map or by an agreement to improve roadways which shall be executed as provided in
Article 14 of this Code.  Roads proposed for construction will be categorized by location.
CHAPTER 8 –  PUBLIC FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  8 -  9
81.140 –  BLOCKS
The length, width, and shape of blocks shall be designed to provide adequate building sites
suitable for the proposed use(s), to satisfy any need for convenient access, circulation, control,
and safety of street traffic, and the limitations and opportunities of the topography of the site.
81.150 - BICYCLE LANES
The Review Body may require the installation of separate bicycle lanes within streets and/or
separate bicycle paths, if necessary to extend an existing or planned system of bicycle routes,
shown on the adopted Bicycle Route Plan, or if a need is otherwise indicated.  Such paths shall
meet the standards of the State of Oregon.
81.160 –  ALLEYS
The minimum width of alleys, when provided in residential blocks, shall be 20 feet.  Alleys shall
be provided in Commercial and Industrial Zones and shall not be less than 20 feet in width.
81.170 - CUL DE SACS AND ACCESS  WAYS
Dead-end streets shall terminate in a cul-de-sac with a minimum of 60 foot radius as listed in the
road standards adopted by the County Court or standards adopted by AASHTO
A. Cul-de-sacs or permanent dead-end roads may be used as part of a development plan.
However, through roads are encouraged except where topographical, environmental,
access or existing adjacent land use constraints, or safety issues make connecting roads
infeasible.  Where cul-de-sacs are planned, access  ways shall be provided connecting the
ends of cul-de-sacs to each other; to other roads; or to neighborhood activity centers.
B. Where appropriate access  ways for pedestrians and bicyclists shall be 10 feet wide and
located within a 20 foot wide right-of-way or easement.  If the roads within the
subdivision are lighted, the access  ways shall also be lighted.  Stairs or switchback paths
may be used where grades are steep.
C. Where appropriate access  ways for pedestrians and bicyclists shall be provided at mid-
block where the block is longer than 600 feet.
D. The Planning Director or Planning Commission may determine, based upon evidence in
the record, that an access way is impracticable.  Such evidence may include, but is not
limited to:
CHAPTER 8 –  PUBLIC FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  8 -  10
1. Physical or topographic conditions make an access way connection impractical.
Such conditions include , but are not limited to extremely steep slopes, wetlands or
other bodies of water where a connection cannot reasonably be provided.
2. Buildings or other existing development on adjacent lands physically preclude a
connection now or in the future, considering potential for redevelopment.
3. Where access  ways would violate provisions of leases, easements, covenants,
restrictions or other agreements existing as of May 1, 1995, that preclude a
required access way connection.
81.180 - STREET INTERSECTIONS
A. All streets shall intersect at right angles (90 degrees); where an intersection of 90 degrees
cannot be secured because of physical constraints of the site, an angular intersection of
not less than 60 degrees may be permitted.
B. Right-of-way lines at street intersections shall be rounded with an arc parallel to the curb
or shoulder arc.
C. Collector and arterial intersections shall have roadway curb or road shoulder radii of not
less than 25 feet; all other street intersections shall have roadway curb radii of not less
than 20 feet.
81.190 - STANDARD DRIVE APPROACHES
Standard drive approaches shall be installed pursuant to County design standards.
81.191 –  UTILITIES
All underground power, telephone, television cable shall be buried to Code and prior to surfacing
the sub-grade.
81.192 - BICYCLE PARKING
The development shall include the number and type of bicycle parking facilities required in
Section 75.040 (E) of this title.  The location and design of bicycle parking facilities shall be
indicated on the site plan.
CHAPTER 8 –  PUBLIC FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  8 -  11
81.193 - PEDESTRIAN ACCESS AND CIRCULATION
Where appropriate, internal pedestrian circulation shall be provided in new commercial, office
and multi-family residential developments through the clustering of buildings, construction of
hard surface walkways, landscaping, access  ways or similar techniques.
81.194 - COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
A. New commercial buildings, particularly retail shopping and offices, shall be oriented to
the road, near or at the set-back line.  A main entrance shall be oriented to the road.  For
lots with more than two front yards, the building(s) shall be oriented to the two busiest
roads.
B. Off-road motor vehicle parking for new commercial developments shall be located at the
side or behind the building(s).
81.195 - INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL SITE PLANS
All site plans (industrial and commercial) shall clearly show how the site ’s internal pedestrian
and bicycle facilities connect with external existing or planned facilities or systems.
81.200 - RESTRICTED RESIDENTIAL ROADS
A. When five or fewer lots or parcels are to be served by a public road, the developer may
request approval to construct to a lesser standard than required by this Article.  Those
roads will not be accepted for maintenance by the County Court, unless improved to
maintenance standards and specifications for Rural Roads found in Section 81.130(A).
B. If the road cannot be extended to serve ultimately more than five lots or parcels, the sub-
grade may be constructed to only a single lane width:
1. If the road potentially could be extended to serve more than five lots or parcels,
the s ub-grade shall be constructed to a double lane width to allow future
improvements to the appropriate road standard;
2. Design standards for restricted residential roads are provided in Section
81.200(F), for subdivisions  over five lots or parcels; however, surfacing may be
limited to one lane only with turnouts intervisible or 800 feet maximum, 50 feet in
length plus 25 foot tapers.
CHAPTER 8 –  PUBLIC FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  8 -  12
C. If a road is to be improved to the minimum standards of this Section rather than the
normal standards for Rural Roads, prior to approval, the developer shall submit to the
Review Body a provision which shall include the following terms:
1. The agreements for maintenance and improvement shall be enforceable by any
abutter or the County on its own motion;
2. The property owners abutting the road, their successors, or assignees, shall
maintain the road, either equally or in accordance with a special formula,
including, but not limited to, a formula proportional to the frontage or acreage.
D. The agreement required by Section 81.200(C) shall be recorded with the final plat and by
the County Clerk prior to the transfer of lots or parcels served by the road created in
compliance with this Section:
1. Restoration of the road shall be accomplished whenever deterioration results in
exposure of the sub grade, failure of the foundation, erosion of ditches or road
shoulders, or blockage of culverts;
2. The agreement shall further specify that if the road includes a structure, the
structure shall be continually maintained at the loading standard to which it was
constructed, and the structure shall be inspected at a minimum of every ten years
by a registered professional engineer;
3. This agreement shall not apply to any County road created prior to the passage of
this Section, nor shall any maintenance agreement be binding on any lot or parcel,
lawfully created and existing prior to the creation of a new road, that abuts a new
road unless included in the maintenance agreement by voluntary action of the
property owner.
E. The applicant may request that a gravel surface be constructed in lieu of the required oil
mat surface.  The Planning Director has the authority to approve this request if all the
following conditions exist:
1. The road cannot be extended to serve more than a total of five lots including the
lots requested in the current application;
2. The road shall be located on soils that are not erosive in nature to the extent that
the road could substantially deteriorate under normal traffic conditions;
CHAPTER 8 –  PUBLIC FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  8 -  13
3. The parcels to be served are relatively isolated from an existing oil mat or County
road;
4. The application of an oil mat surface would not be practical because of
extraordinary circumstances that would cause a substantial hardship;
5. The creation of the road would lead to an orderly and efficient use of the land on
the subject property and surrounding properties.
F.
Table 2
Restricted Residential Road Standards
Standard
Maximum 5 Lots
or Parcels
Potential for more
than 5 Lots or
Parcels
Design Speed 20 mph 25 mph
Lane Width 13 feet* 13 feet surfaced
Surface Type crushed aggregate oil mat
Grade Maximum 10% 8%
Structure Width 14 feet 28 feet/30 feet
Vertical Clearance 16 1/2 feet 16 1/2 feet
Load Design (Structure) HS 20-44 HS 20-44
R/W Width 60 feet** 60 feet
NOTES: Grades in erosion sensitive soils as determined by the Road Supervisor will
require erosion control measures.
* Turnouts shall be provided intervisible or 800 feet, constructed 50 feet in length plus 25
foot tapers on each end.
** A different R/W w idth may be required because of the topography of a site.
*** Future road standards above a residential standard will require the development to the
greater standard.
CHAPTER 8 –  PUBLIC FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  8 -  14
81.210 - CREATION OF STREETS SHOWN ON THE TRANSPORTATION
MASTERPLAN
A. Streets shown on the Adopted Master Transportation Plans are created at the time of
adoption of the Plans.
B. Improvements and engineering data necessary for the completion of roads shall be
submitted as reasonably requested by the Road Supervisor.
C. The review and approval of documents shall be performed by the Review Body and Road
Supervisor to assure compliance with street improvements standards.  Decisions made by
the Review Body and Road Supervisor may be appealed as part of the original
application under the provisions of Article 33.
81.220 - TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM PLAN
The intent of this section is to implement the access management policies of the Grant County
Transportation System Plan; to manage access to land developments in an effort to preserve the
transportation system in terms of safety, capacity, and function; and shall apply to all arterial and
collectors within Grant County and to all properties that abut those roadways.
A. Corner Clearance.
1. Corner Clearance for connections shall meet or exceed the minimum connection
spacing requirements for that roadway.
2. New connections shall not be permitted within the functional area of an
intersection or interchange as defined by the connection spacing standards of this
ordinance, unless no other reasonable access to the property is available.
3. Where no other alternatives exist, the County may allow construction of an access
connection along the property line farthest from the intersection.  In such cases,
directional connections (i.e. right in/ou t, right in only, or right out only) may be
required.
B. Joint and Cross Access.
1. Adjacent commercial or office properties classified as major traffic generators
(i.e. shopping plazas, office parks), shall provide a cross access drive and
pedestrian access to allow circulation between sites.
CHAPTER 8 –  PUBLIC FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  8 -  15
2. A system of joint use driveways and cross access easements shall be established
wherever feasible and shall incorporate the following:
a. A continuous service drive or cross access corridor extending the entire
length of each block served to provide for driveway separation consistent
with the access management classification system and standards.
b. A design speed of 10 mph and a maximum width of 20 feet to
accommodate two-way travel aisles designated to accommodate
automobiles, service vehicles, and loading vehicles.
c. Stub-outs and other design features to make it visually obvious that the
abutting properties may be tied in to provide cross-access via a service
drive.
d. A unified access and circulation system plan for coordinated or shared
parking areas is encouraged.
3. Shared parking areas shall be permitted to allow a reduction in required parking
spaces if peak demands do not occur at the same time periods.
4. Pursuant to this section, property owners shall:
a. Record an easement with the deed showing cross access in and from other
properties served by the joint use driveways and cross access or service
drive.
b. Record an agreement with the deed that remaining access rights along the
roadway will be dedicated to the County and pre-existing driveways will
be closed and eliminated after construction of the joint use driveway.
c. Record a joint maintenance agreement with the deed defining maintenance
responsibilities of property owners.
5. The County may reduce required separation distance of access points where they
prove impractical, provided all of the following requirements are met:
a. Joint access driveways and cross access easements are provided in
accordance with this section.
CHAPTER 8 –  PUBLIC FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  8 -  16
b. The site plan incorporates a unified access and circulation system in
accordance with this section.
c. The property owner enters into a written agreement with the County,
recorded with the deed, that pre-existing connections on the site will be
closed and eliminated after construction of each side of the joint use
driveway.
6. The County may modify or waive the requirements of this section where the
characteristics or layout of abutting properties would make a development of a
unified or shared access and circulation system impractical.
C. Access Connection and Driveway Design
1. Driveways shall meet the following standards:
a. If the driveway is a one way in or one way out drive, the driveway shall be
a minimum width of 12 feet and shall have an appropriate sign designating
the driveway as a one way connection.
b. For two way access, each lane shall have a minimum lane width of 10 feet
and a minimum shoulder width of 2 feet on each side (minimum road
width of 24 feet).
c. Driveway grades will not exceed 12%.
2. Driveway approaches must be designed and located to provide an exiting vehicle
with an unobstructed view.  Construction of driveways along acceleration or
deceleration lanes and tapers shall be avoided due to the potential for vehicular
weaving conflicts.
3. The length of driveways shall be designed in accordance with the anticipated
storage length for entering and exiting vehicles to prevent vehicles from backing
into the flow of traffic on the public road or causing unsafe conflicts with on site
circulation.
D. Requirements for Phased Development Plans.
1. In the interest of promoting unified access and circulation systems, development
sites under the same ownership or consolidated for the purposes of development
CHAPTER 8 –  PUBLIC FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  8 -  17
and comprised of more than one building site shall be reviewed as single
properties in relation to the access standards of this ordinance.  The number of
access points permitted shall be the minimum number necessary to provide
reasonable access to these properties.  All necessary easements, agreements, and
stipulations shall be met.  This shall also apply to phased development plans.  The
owner and all lessees within the affected area are responsible for compliance with
the requirements of this ordinance and both shall be cited for any violation.
2. All access must be internalized using the shared circulation system of the
principal development or retail center.  Driveways shall be designed to avoid
queuing across surrounding parking and driving aisles.
E. Nonconforming Access Features.
1. Legal access connections in place on date of adoption that do not conform with
the standards herein are considered nonconforming features and shall be brought
into compliance with applicable standards under the following conditions:
a. When new access connection permits are required.
b. Change in use or enlargements or improvements that will increase trip
generation.
F. Reverse Frontage.
1. Lots that front on more than one road shall be required to locate motor vehicle
accesses on the road with the lower functional classification.
2. When a residential subdivision is proposed that would abut an arterial, it shall be
designed to provide through lots along the arterial with access from a frontage
road or interior local road.  Access rights for these lots to the arterial shall be
dedicated to Grant County and recorded with the deed.  A berm or buffer yard
may be required at the rear of through lots to buffer residences from traffic on the
arterial.  The berm or buffer yard shall not be located with the public right-of-
way.
G. Shared Access.
Subdivisions with frontage on the state highway system shall be designed into shared
access points to and from the highway.  Normally a maximum of two accesses shall be
CHAPTER 8 –  PUBLIC FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  8 -  18
allowed regardless of the number of lots or businesses served.  If access off a secondary
road is possible, then access should not be allowed onto the state highway.  If access off
of a secondary road becomes available, then conversion to that access is encouraged,
along with closing the state highway access.
H. Connectivity.
Minor collector and local residential access roads shall connect with surrounding roads to
permit the convenient movement of traffic between residential neighborhoods or facilitate
emergency access and evacuation.  Connections shall be designed to avoid or minimize
through traffic on local roads.  Appropriate design and traffic control such as four-way
stops and traffic calming measures are the preferred means of discouraging through
traffic.
I. Variances to Access Management Standards.
1. The granting of the variance shall meet the purpose and intent of these regulations
and shall not be considered until every feasible option for meeting access
standards is explored.
2. Applicants for a variance from these standards must provide proof of unique or
special conditions that make strict application of the provisions impractical.
Applicants shall include proof that:
a. Indirect or restricted access cannot be obtained.
b. No engineering or construction solutions can be applied to mitigate the
condition.
c. No alternative access is available from a road with a lower functional
classification that the primary roadway.
3. No variance shall be granted where such hardship is self-created.
81.230 - TRAFFIC IMPACTS
A. The proposed use shall not impose an undue burden on the public transportation system.
For developments that are likely to generate more than 400 average daily motor vehicle
trips (ADT ’s), the applicant shall provide adequate information, such as a traffic impact
CHAPTER 8 –  PUBLIC FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  8 -  19
study or traffic counts, to demonstrate the level of impact to the surrounding road system.
The developer shall be required to mitigate impacts attributable to the project.
B. The determination of impact or effect and the scope of the impact study should be
coordinated with the provider of the affected transportation facility.
C. Dedication of land for roads, transit facilities, sidewalks, bikeways, paths or access  ways
shall be required where the existing transportation system will be impacted by or is
inadequate to handle the additional burden caused by the proposed use.
D. Improvements such as paving, curbing, installation or contribution to traffic signals,
construction of sidewalks, bikeways, access  ways, paths or roads that serve the proposed
use where the existing transportation system may be burdened by the proposed use.
CHAPTER 8 –  PUBLIC FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  8 -  20
ARTICLE 82 - SUBDIVISION & STREET NAMES & SIGNS
82.010 - SUBDIVISION NAMES
The name of any subdivision or planned unit development shall not be the same as, similar to, or
pronounced the same as the name of any other subdivision or planned unit development within
the County, unless the development is contiguous to and an extension of another land division
which was platted by the same developer; or the developer files and records the consent of the
original developer that platted the contiguous subdivision or planned unit development bearing
that name.  Adjacent plats shall continue the lot numbers and, if used, the block numbers of the
subdivision or planned unit development plat of the same name last filed.
82.020 - STREET NAMES
The name of any proposed road shall not duplicate or be so similar as to be confused with the
name of any existing road within the County.
82.030 - STREET SIGNS
Arrangements shall be made by the developer for the Road Supervisor to furnish and install all
required signs and traffic control devices.  All costs of materials, labor, and equipment shall be
paid by the developer.
CHAPTER 8 –  PUBLIC FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  8 -  21
ARTICLE 83 - EROSION CONTROL & STORM DRAIN FACILITIES
83.010 - PURPOSE
The standards and criteria for erosion and sediment control provide for the design of projects so
as to minimize the harmful effects of stormwater runoff and the resultant inundation and erosion
from projects, and to protect neighboring downstream and downslope properties from erosion
and sediment impacts.
83.020 - APPLICATION OF STANDARDS
A. These standards shall apply to any land division or land use application including
development and construction which would require any grading or filling on slopes that
are 15% or greater or soils that are granitic in composition as mapped by the Natural
Resource Conservation Service except when authorized or regulated by the Oregon
Forest Practices Act.
B. An Erosion and Sediment Control Plan to prevent or mitigate possible hazards to life,
property, or the natural environment shall be required.
C. Seed mix and fertilizer recommended by Natural Resource Conservation Service.
83.030 - PLAN REQUIREMENTS
A. An operation plan shall be submitted prior to any grading or filling on slopes 15% or
greater, or on granitic soils.
B. The plan shall be prepared by a registered civil engineer, and shall provide the following
information:
1. A statement of the land capabilities of the property on which the grading, filling,
or clearing is to be performed, including soil series name, slope, gradients, run off
potential, soil depth, erosion potential, and natural drainage;
2. An accurate plot plan showing the exterior boundaries of the property on which
the modification is to be performed, including the following:
a. Flow lines of surface waters onto and off of the site;
b. Existing and proposed contours at two foot intervals;
CHAPTER 8 –  PUBLIC FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  8 -  22
c. Location, amount, and extent of cuts, fills, or contouring;
d. Existing and proposed drainage ways;
e. Building corner and street elevations for existing and proposed
improvements;
f. Existing and proposed retaining walls;
g. The location and design of facilities for storage or conveyance of surface
water runoff;
h. Estimates of existing and proposed runoff on the site.
3. The p lan shall include an evaluation of the effects of projected runoff on adjacent
properties and existing drainage  ways;
4. A list of equipment and methods to be employed in processing and disposing of
soil and other material that is removed from the site, including the location of
disposal sites;
5. The plan shall include information detailing the final ground cover, landscaping,
erosion and drainage controls, and requirements for stable cut and fill slopes
which will be based on detailed stability analysis.  For the purposes of
determining appropriate soil losses, the Natural Resource Conservation Service,
United States Department of Agriculture publication Soil Interpretations for
Oregon shall be used.
83.040 - EROSION & SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN REVIEW
The Erosion and Sediment Control Plan shall be submitted as part of the land division or land
use application and shall be reviewed as part of the application.  The Review Body or the Road
Supervisor where roads may be a ffected, shall review the p lan and may recommend the
installation or construction of improvements necessary to mitigate the impacts of the potential
erosion and runoff.
83.050 - STORM DRAINAGE FACILITIES
Drainage facilities shall be provided for subdivisions, partitions, re-plats, or planned unit
developments, and shall be connected directly to existing drainage ways or storm sewers outside
CHAPTER 8 –  PUBLIC FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  8 -  23
of the proposed land division that have an adequate capacity to accept drainage water from the
subdivision, partition, re-plat, or planned unit development as provided below:
A. Design of drainage within the subdivision, partition, re-plat, or planned unit development
shall be approved by the Road Supervisor, consistent with the County's Master Storm
Drainage Plan, and shall take into account the capacity and grade necessary to maintain
unrestricted flow from areas draining through the subdivision, partition, re-plat, or
planned unit development, and to allow extension of the system outside the subdivision,
partition, re-plat, or planned unit development;
B. Drainage for the individual lots of the proposed subdivision, partition, re-plat, or planned
unit development, and the proposed subdivision, partition, re-plat or planned unit
development as a whole, shall be accomplished in such a manner so as to prevent the
excessive flow of water across property lines, sidewalks, and other public right-of-ways;
C. When in the opinion of the Road Supervisor, land in a subdivision, partition, re-plat, or
planned unit development which is or will be periodically subject to accumulations of
surface water or is traversed by any water course, channel, stream, or creek, shall be
required as a condition of approval to provide for adequate unrestricted drainage by the
developer;
D. Provision for drainage shall be shown on a drainage plan both within and adjacent to the
subdivision, partition, re-plat, or planned unit development.  The plan shall show all
easements and any improvements to be constructed;
E. Public improvements shall be approved by the Review Body as adequate for the drainage
needs of the area.  Where necessary, for protection of any needs, the Review Body may
condition the tentative plan approval on the conveying of ownership of a drainage
easement for drainage purposes to the County.
CHAPTER 8 –  PUBLIC FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  8 -  24
ARTICLE 84 - WATER STANDARDS
RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION.
CHAPTER 8 –  PUBLIC FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  8 -  25
ARTICLE 85 - UTILITIES
85.010 - UTILITY IMPROVEMENTS
A. Utilities shall be placed to the lot line of each lot during the construction of any new
street or road that:
1. Will be maintained by the County;
2. Has the potential to be maintained by the County; or
3. Is maintained by abutting owners through a recorded agreement required as a part
of an approved land division.
B. The developer shall make necessary arrangements with the utility companies or other
persons or corporations effected for the installation of lines and facilities, including , but
not limited to communication, street lighting, and cable television, to provide service to
the property.
85.020 - UTILITY EASEMENTS
Easements for public utilities shall be provided, as necessary, for the installation of utilities, and
for the future installation of utilities when the subject property or adjoining property has the
potential for further development.
85.030 - GUARANTEES TO CONSTRUCT REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
Waiver of Remonstrance regarding public facilities:
A. Applicants for land divisions shall sign a written waiver of their right to remonstrate or
otherwise legally oppose the installation of public facilities, including , but not limited to
streets, storm drainage systems, sanitary sewer systems, and water supply systems, where
such facilities are or may be proposed to serve the applicant's property as part of any
local improvement (assessment) district, developer installed improvement project or a
local government improvement project of any type;
B. This Section shall not, however, prohibit the applicant, developer, or owner from
expressing his or her personal views regarding the installation of a public facility.
CHAPTER 8 –  PUBLIC FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  8 -  26
85.040 - MODIFICATION OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
A. The Review Body has the authority to modify the improvements required by Sections
85.010 and 85.020.  This authority may only be used in those cases where:
1. The full requirement would cause an undue or unnecessary hardship based on
unforeseen circumstances that would require extraordinary construction methods
or materials; and
2. The authorization will be consistent with the purposes of this Chapter as set forth
in Sections 80.010 and 80.020.
B. The Review Body shall consider the modification after proper notice and shall consider
any information necessary to demonstrate that the modification is in compliance with the
criteria in the decision.
C. The decision of the Review Body may be appealed as part of the original application
under the procedures set out in Article 33.
85.050 - SEWAGE DISPOSAL IMPROVEMENTS
Sewage disposal improvements for each lot or parcel shall be in compliance with the
requirements of the Department of Environmental Quality, and sanitary sewer district (if the
proposed development is within the district boundaries or is proposed or conditioned for
annexation of a district), applicable city standards, and any other applicable laws.
85.060 - WATER SYSTEMS IN OTHER URBANIZING AREAS
A. All subdivisions, partitions, re-plats, and planned unit developments located within
urbanizing areas which are served by public sewers shall be provided with a public water
system to the lot line of each lot within the subdivision or partition.
B. The system shall be designed for meeting domestic needs and may be required to be
designed for meeting fire fighting capacity.
C. The system shall be installed prior to approval of the final plat or the developer shall
complete a performance agreement as provided in Article 14 of this Code.  The
agreement may include agreements to annex; incorporation of a water district, private
water cooperative, or development of a service utility; and the posting of a bond or
contributions of funds in sufficient amount to mitigate the burden created by the land
division on public water supplies.
CHAPTER 8 –  PUBLIC FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  8 -  27
D. Pipe sizes and design standards for any system shall be specified by a city, special
district, or cooperative that will eventually serve the proposed subdivision, partition, re-
plat, or planned unit development:
1. In any area where a future public water supply source has not been identified,
design standards shall be specified by the County in consultation with the
authority which will eventually serve the proposed subdivision, partition, re-plat,
or planned unit development;
2. Design approval shall take into account provision for extension beyond the
subdivision, partition, re-plat, or planned unit development, to adequately grid the
appropriate water system plan.
85.070 - IRRIGATION
A. If lands to be subdivided, partitioned, re-platted, or converted to a planned unit
development include rights for irrigation, provision shall be made for continuation of
those rights by indication of an easement to allow delivery of irrigation water and
maintenance of irrigation facilities to each lot or parcel in the land division in which the
historic application of water has been made.
B. Where rural land divisions affect facilities of an irrigation district, the owners of the
division shall be responsible for maintaining continuity of the district's system:
1. The owner of the division shall either buy out of the district or provide each lot
within the subdivision, partition, re-plat, or planned unit development with
irrigation water, all in accordance with district requirements;
2. In addition, the owner or developer shall buy out of the district any publicly
dedicated or deeded right of way.
CHAPTER 8 –  PUBLIC FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  8 -  28
ARTICLE 86 - SOLID WASTE
86.010 - APPLICATION
A. The standards contained in this Article shall apply to the siting of a sanitary or solid
waste landfill, and to a resource recovery and/or transfer station.
86.020 - SITING STANDARDS
A. The following standards shall apply to siting a sanitary or solid waste landfill.  These
standards shall not replace any applicable state or federal standards.
1. The proposal meets the requirements of the Land Development Code.
2. The proposed use complies with all requirements of the Department of
Environmental Quality.
3. A reclamation plan will be submitted to DEQ demonstrating how the land will be
returned to resource use including a timetable for the implementation of the plan.
B. The following standards, as appropriate, shall apply to siting a resource recovery and/or
transfer station.  These standards shall not replace any state or federal standards , but shall
supplement them:
1. Lots are to be of sufficient size to allow a 30 foot separation of storage or
buildings to adjacent property lines; greater if adjacent to a Residential Zone;
2. Entire use to be fenced and screened from adjacent property and public right-of-
way;
3. All putrescible (garbage) shall be stored within an enclosed building;
4. Recyclable commodities may be stored outside if each type is placed in containers
appropriate to the material contained;
5. All Federal and State environmental quality standards shall be met to include at a
minimum noise, waste water discharge, surface drainage, disposal of putrescible
material, etc.;
CHAPTER 8 –  PUBLIC FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  8 -  29
6. All material shall be confined to the site and shall not be stored in a manner that
will allow littering of adjacent property.