1  –  Grievance Procedure Policy 2019-04 Adopted June 26, 2019
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE POLICY NO. 2019-04
POLICY : It is the policy of Grant County to provide a grievance procedure for individuals . This
procedure is the formal mechanism by which individuals may seek redress for problems not able
to be solved via informal means.
SCOPE : This policy applies to all staff providing services and all individuals receiving services
within Grant County Departments.
PROCEDURE :
1. Submit the complaint in writing to the Elected Official, Department Head or the Grant
County Judge. The complaint should be in writing and contain information about the
grievance  such as name, address, phone number of complainant and location, date, and
description of the condition or circumstances. Alternative means of filing complaints,
such as personal interviews or a tape recording of the complaint, will be made available
for persons with disabilities upon request.  A record of the complaint and action taken will
be maintained. A decision by the designated official will be rendered within 15 working
days.
2. If the complaint cannot be resolved to the satisfaction of the submitter:
a. It will be forwarded to a committee appointed by the Grant County Court . This
committee ’s membership, its ground rules or procedures for hearing complaints,
and how the committee can be contacted will be available to the public. The
committee will be directed to hear such complaints in an objective, public
manner, and after adequate public notice. A written decision will be made within
30 working days. Proceedings of the committee will be recorded and maintained.
OR
b. The complaint will be heard by the Grant County Court  and discussed at an open,
public meeting of the elected body  unless the hearing should be held in an
executive session pursuant to ORS 192.660(2). A written decision will be made
within 30 working days. The decision of the Grant County Court  is final.
3. A record of action taken on each complaint will be maintained as a part of the records or
minutes at each level of the grievance process.