1  –  Disability Accomodation Policy 2019-02 Adopted June 26, 2019
DISABILITY ACCOM M ODATION POLICY NO. 2019-02
POLICY : Grant County is committed to complying fully with the Americans with
Disabilities Act (ADA) and Oregon ’s disability accommodation and anti-discrimination laws.
ACCOMODATIONS : Grant County will make reasonable efforts to accommodate persons with
a known disability and will make all reasonab le modifications to policies and programs to ensure
that people with disabilities have an equal opportunity to enjoy all County programs, services
and activities.  Anyone who requires an auxiliary aid or service for effective communication, or a
modification of policies or procedures to participate in a County program, service or activity,
should contact the Grant County Court at 541-575-0059, as soon as possible, but no later than 48
hours before the scheduled event.
PROCEDURE :
1. Grant County will routinely monitor its facilities for ADA compliance.
2. Staff will report ADA safety concerns to their Department Head.
3. Department Heads will meet with relevant staff to address their safety concerns and
safety concerns will be reported to the Grant County Safety Committee for further
review.
4. The Department Head or designee will respond to a consumer ’s request for reasonable
accommodations within three working days.
5. Grant County will seek to accommodate a consumer ’s needs for physical access,
translation of materials and language interpretation.
a) A Language Identification Guide will be kept in all offices.
b) Sign language and oral language interpreters will be kept under contract to
provide needed services.
c) Efforts will be made to hire bi-lingual staff.
ALTERNATE COMMUNICATION : Grant County is committed to ensuring that all information
presented to the public is provided in an effective format. This includes a commitment to present
information in a format other than written or spoken English to meet public communication
needs. Grant County provides the following procedure to communicate with person with Limited
English Proficiency at no cost to the individual:
1. Each department has a Language Identification Guide that a citizen can use to
select their preferred language.
2. Each department has a Quick Reference Guide with instructions on how to
contact an interpreter.
3. InSight  Video Interpreting is available for Deaf or Hard-of Hearing individuals.
Information on accessing video interpreting can be obtained by contacting the
Grant County Court at 541-575-0059.
2  –  Disability Accomodation Policy 2019-02 Adopted June 26, 2019
COMPLIANCE :
1. Grant County will assure that facilities are ADA compliant.
2. Handicap parking will be clearly marked at all facilities.
3. Facilities will have ADA approved wheelchair access.
a) The Safety Committee will inspect facilities for compliance with the above
annually and report any findings to the County Court.