CHAPTER 7 –  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  7 -  1
CHAPTER 7 - GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
ARTICLE 70 - BASIC PROVISIONS
70.010 - PURPOSE
The purpose of this Chapter is to develop standards for the development and division of property.
The standards are designed to protect the public health, safety, and welfare.
70.020 - APPLICATION
The standards established in this Chapter shall apply to all new development, expansion of an
existing development, and to all land divisions in Grant County.  The area involved is all of
Grant County, including all land within any urban growth boundary where a joint management
ag reement exists with the County.
CHAPTER 7 –  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  7 -  2
ARTICLE 71 - LOT SIZE & SHAPE
71.010 - LOT SIZE & SHAPE
A. Proposed lots or parcels in a subdivision, partition, re-plat, property line adjustment, or
planned unit development, shall not be divided to a size less than the minimum
requirements for the Zone the lot or parcel is located in.  Lots or parcels containing less
than the minimum lot size requirements may be approved provided that:
1. Not more than 20% of the lots, up to a maximum of five deficient lots or parcels,
are created from an original tract; and
2. The area deficiency is contained within the public road right of way; and
3. The applicant provides a written statement from the Department of Environmental
Quality stating that the smaller lots do not constitute a public health, safety, and
welfare hazard.
B. No lot shall be greater than four times deeper than it is wide, exclusive of the "pole" of a
flag lot.
71.020 - FLAG LOTS
A. It shall be the policy of the County to encourage the construction of public roads to
provide safe and identifiable access to properties.  Flag lots shall not be approved unless
it can be shown that:
1. Creation of a road is not practical because of extraordinary physical limitations of
the parcel for construction;
2. It will represent an efficient use of land;
3. It will not endanger the public health, safety, or welfare;
4. In no case shall flag lots be approved where the extension of a public road is
shown on an official map and the extension will provide necessary access.
B. The following requirements shall apply to flag lots:
CHAPTER 7 –  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  7 -  3
1. The "flagpole" shall maintain a width of at least 25 feet as minimum access at the
point of abutment to a public road and throughout its length;
2. The "flagpole" shall not cross a live stream, ravine, irrigation ditch, or similar
topographic feature without construction of a structure or fill and culvert capable
of providing access for emergency vehicles.  The Revie w Body may require
certification from a registered engineer that the structure or fill and culvert has
been constructed to support emergency vehicles;
3. The "flagpole" may alter course or direction as long as the view of the location
and the address of the structure or use will not be confusing for mail delivery or
emergency vehicle access; and provided that a driveway can be constructed
wholly within the "flagpole" with a turn that does not exceed a 50 foot radius;
4. The grade of the flagpole shall not exceed 12% for an unsurfaced driveway or a
maximum of 18% for a driveway surfaced with asphaltic concrete or Portland
Cement:
a. The Review Body may require grading and construction which meets
these standards as a part of final approval of any land division; or
b. When immediate construction of the driveway is not possible because of
practical difficulties, the final map shall note the work has not been
completed, and driveway construction shall become part of the
performance agreement filed with the final plat.
5. The "flagpole" shall not exceed in length twice the width of the lot or twice the
length of the lot, whichever dimension is the lesser;
6. Not more than one flag lot shall be created in the same subdivision or partition
and it shall not abut any other flag lot.
C. The Review Body may permit flag lotting, contrary to Sections 71.020(B)(1), (5) and (6),
where the proposed development meets the criteria set out in 71.020(A).
CHAPTER 7 –  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  7 -  4
ARTICLE 72 - HEIGHTS AND SETBACKS
72.010 - PURPOSE
The purpose of this Article is to establish and maintain minimum requirements for accessory
structures, for structure heights, and for setbacks from property lines in order to provide a
measure of buffering between uses, ensure adequate privacy, maintain safe visibility at road
intersections, ensure access to and around buildings, and to provide access to natural light,
ventilation, and sunlight.
72.020 - STRUCTURE HEIGHT & SETBACK REQUIREMENTS
A. The following minimum requirements shall be applied to all permitted, administrative,
conditional, and accessory structures allowed except where more restrictive dimensions
are specified elsewhere in this Code.  All requirements are specified in feet:
STRUCTURE SETBACK FROM PROPERTY LINE
ZONE HEIGHT FRONT SIDE REAR
RR 35 20 10 20
S-R 35 1 20 12 10
G-C 45 2 20 10 10
G-I 3 45 50 3 3
RSC-1 35 20 10 20
RIDC PPZ 4 PPZ PPZ PPZ
SR PPZ PPZ PPZ PPZ
PUD PPZ PPZ PPZ PPZ
AA;  FP;  GH PPZ PPZ PPZ PPZ
EFU –  80(160) 35 30 30 30
PF –  80(240) 35 30 30 30
MUR  –  160(320) 35 30 25 5 30
GW;  AH PPZ PPZ PPZ PPZ
CHAPTER 7 –  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  7 -  5
1. Height restriction does not apply to hospitals, public schools or churches, which
may be increased in height to 45 feet.
2. Except 35 foot height limit on a lot adjacent to or across the street from a
residential zone or duly platted residential subdivision.
3. The minimum setback between a structure and a property line abutting a
residential lot or use in a duly platted subdivision or residential zone shall be 50
feet, except as approved by the Planning Commission.
4. PPZ = Per primary zone; see relevant sections, Chapter 6.
5. For non-farm use residential parcels adjacent to farm or forest lands, side yards of
50 feet minimum required.
B. The height of a building shall be measured using the definition in Section 11.030.
C. The side and rear setback in a Commercial or Industrial Zone may be reduced to 0 when
the side and rear property lines abut a Commercial or Industrial Zone, provided any walls
of a structure placed upon the side or rear lot line are constructed to meet the fire
resistance requirements of the most current edition of the Building Codes.
D. In the Aggregate Resource Zone, pipelines, landings, docks, bridges, hydro-electric
facilities, and pumping or treatment facilities may be located closer than 30 feet to any
property line.
E. In all Zones except the Commercial and Industrial Zones, all buildings shall be setback at
least 60 feet from the centerline of any public street, road, or right-of-way which is
surveyed and established.  The Review Body may vary this standard where necessary for
corner lots.
F. Decks, paved or concrete slabs, patios or walkways which are 30 inches or higher above
grade shall comply with the setback requirements set out in Article 72; decks, paved or
concrete slabs, patios or walkways which are lower than 30 inches above grade are
exempted from yard setback requirements, but shall comply with the special stream
setbacks in Section 72.040(A).
CHAPTER 7 –  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  7 -  6
72.030 - SPECIAL HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS
A. The structures exempted from height requirements shall comply with the requirements in
the Wild & Scenic Rivers Combining Zone, Article 69.3; the Airport Combining Zone,
Article 69.4; and the requirements set out in Article 74.
B. The following may be erected above the height limits prescribed in Section 72.020(A) of
this Code:
1. Roof structure for the housing of elevators, stairways, tanks, ventilating fans, and
similar equipment required to operate and maintain a building;
2. Fire or parapet walls, skylights, towers, flagpoles, chimneys, smokestacks, radio
masts, and television antennas;
3. Agricultural buildings including barns and silos;
4. Wood waste burners, kiln drying racks, veneer dryers, lumber storage sheds,
sorting sheds, sawmills, aeration towers, pollution control equipment, water
reservoirs, incinerators, conveyers, hoppers, cooling towers, electrical
transmission towers, structural dams, power generator plant, aircraft beacons, and
air traffic control towers;
5. Other similar structures.
72.040 - SPECIAL SETBACK REQUIREMENTS
A. Stream Setbacks.  No structure, excluding fences, boat landings, docks, bridges,
hydroelectric facilities, pumping, or water treatment facilities, shall be located closer than
100 feet to the banks of any recognized water courses:
1. This setback area shall be maintained, to the greatest extent feasible, in stabilized
vegetation;
2. Stream side vegetation that provides shading of the surface waters shall be
retained;
3. Existing stream side vegetation shall be maintained to the greatest extent possible
during construction and development.
CHAPTER 7 –  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  7 -  7
B. There shall be a structure setback of 300 feet from significant rookeries or nest sites
identified by the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife and located as a Goal 5
Resource on the Official Zoning maps for Grant County.  The Department of Fish and
Wildlife has mandated consultation with them to mitigate adverse impacts for all
development closer than 300 feet.
C. Setbacks for mineral and aggregate resource sites are found in Section 91.040.
72.050 –  YARDS
A. Yard requirements for property abutting partial or future street right of way:
1. Except as provided in Section 72.050(B), no building shall be erected on a lot
which abuts a street having only a portion of its required width dedicated unless
the yards provided and maintained in connection  with the building have a width
and/or depth needed to complete the street width, plus the width and/or depth of
the yards required on the lot by this Code;
2. Where an official map of the Comprehensive Plan requires the plans for widening
of existing streets, connecting of existing streets, or establishment of new streets,
the placement of buildings and establishment of yards shall relate to the future
street boundaries as determined by the official map.
B. No yard or open space provided around any building for the purpose of complying with
the provisions of this Section shall be considered as providing a yard or open space for
any other building.
C. No yard or open space on adjoining property shall be considered as providing required
yard or open space for another lot or development site.
D. No front yards provided around any building for the purpose of complying with the
regulations of this Code shall be used for public or private parking areas, garages, or
other accessory buildings, except for single family residential uses or otherwise as
specifically provided in this Code.
E. If a building or group of buildings is located on two or more contiguous lots or parcels, so
that the required setbacks and yards on each side of the property lines cannot be met, the
lots or parcels shall be considered a single development site and the setback and yard
requirements shall apply to the properties as a whole.
CHAPTER 7 –  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  7 -  8
F. The following intrusions may project into required yards as follows:
1. Depressed Areas.   In any Zone, open work fences, hedges, guard railings, or other
landscaping or architectural devices for safety protection around depressed ramps,
stairs, or retaining walls, may be located in required yards, provided that such
devices are not more than three and one-half feet in height;
2. Projecting Building Features .  The following building features may project into
the required front yard no more than five feet, and into the required interior yards
no more than two feet, provided that the projections are no closer than three feet
to an interior lot line:
a. Eaves, cornices, belt courses, sills, awnings, buttresses, ramada, or other
similar features;
b. Chimneys, fireplaces, and heating and cooling equipment, provided they
do not exceed eight feet in width;
c. Porches, platforms, or landings which do not extend above the level of the
first floor of the building;
d. Signs conforming to Article 74;
e. Access facilities for the handicapped, including wheelchair ramps, may be
located in any required yard, provided that the facilities do not obscure
moving vehicle traffic.
G. Front Yards:
1. If dwellings on both abutting lots are located within the front setback area, the
front yard for the center lot need not exceed the average of the abutting lots;
2. If there is a dwelling on one abutting lot with a front yard of less than the required
depth for the Zone, the front yard for the lot need not exceed a depth of one half
way between the depth of the abutting lot and the required front yard depth;
3. When an attached or detached garage is to be built on a lot having an average
elevation of at least 10 feet higher or lower than street level, the front of the
garage may be located five feet from the front property line or at the point where
ground elevation is five feet higher or lower than the street level, whichever is
CHAPTER 7 –  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  7 -  9
greater.  The garage and driveway shall be constructed in a manner to minimize
traffic hazards.
H. Intrusions in a Residential Zone may be located in a required yard setback as follows:
1. Submersible pump insulation covers not exceeding 36 inches in height may be
located in a front yard setback;
2. The following may be located in a side or rear yard setback:  Submersible pump
insulation covers not exceeding 36 inches in height; portable storage buildings not
to exceed 120 square feet; metal patio covers; carports, provided that no more
than one side is enclosed; or similar noncombustible or ornamental fixtures.
CHAPTER 7 –  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  7 -  10
ARTICLE 73 - FENCES, WALLS, & SCREENS
73.010 - PURPOSE
The purpose for establishing and maintaining standards for fences, walls, and screening is to
protect certain uses from intrusion, to protect the public from uses which may be hazardous, and
to increase compatibility of different land uses.
73.020 - VISION CLEARANCE
On all corner lots and lots located at the intersection of alleys and streets, vision clearance areas
shall be triangular in shape with the following minimum distances establishing two legs of the
triangle: 15 feet for corner lots and seven and one-half feet for lots at the intersection of alleys
and streets.  No fences, walls, hedges or vegetation exceeding three feet in height when measured
from the edge of the improved roadway may be located within the vision clearance area.
CHAPTER 7 –  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  7 -  11
ARTICLE 74 - SIGNS
74.010 - PURPOSE
The purpose of sign regulations is to support the use of signing which is maintained in a safe and
attractive condition, and to preserve and enhance the County's visual environment.
74.020 - SIGN STANDARDS
A. The following shall be considered the maximum size and height limitations for a sign.
The size limits are in square feet and shall be considered the maximum for the total sign
area:
ZONE TYPE OF SIGN ON OFF AREA
sq ft
HEIGHT
in feet
RR PROPERTY IDENTIFICATION X 16 12
RR ADVERTISING AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS X 16 12
RR SALE FARM PRODUCTS - TEMPORARY X   16 12
RR HOME OCCUPATION X   6 12
RR SALE OF PROPERTY X   8 12
G-C IDENTIFICATION X   80 20
G-C RENTAL OF PREMISES - TEMPORARY X   3 20
G-C DIRECTIONAL OR REGULATOR X X 6 20
G-C SALE OF PROPERTY X   8 20
RSC-1 IDENTIFICATION X   200 20
RSC-1 RENTAL OF PREMISES - TEMPORARY X   3 20
RSC-1 ADVERTISING   X 150 20
RSC-1 SALE OF PROPERTY X   8 20
PUD RENTAL OF PREMISES - TEMPORARY X   3 20
PUD ATTACHED TO BUILDING X   150 25
PUD DETACHED X   100 25
PUD ADVERTISING   X 150 20
CHAPTER 7 –  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  7 -  12
ZONE TYPE OF SIGN ON OFF AREA
sq ft
HEIGHT
in feet
PUD DIRECTIONAL OR REGULATOR X X 6 20
PUD SALE OF PROPERTY X 8 20
G-I DETACHED X 200 20
G-I ATTACHED TO BUILDING X 50 20
G-I ADVERTISING X 150 20
RIDC DETACHED X 200 20
RIDC ATTACHED TO BUILDING X 50 20
RIDC ADVERTISING X 150 20
SR PROPERTY IDENTIFICATION X 16 12
SR ADVERTISING AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS X 16 12
SR SALE FARM PRODUCTS –  TEMPORARY X 16 12
SR HOME OCCUPATION X 6 12
SR SALE OF PROPERTY X 8 12
B. The size limits below shall be considered the maximum allowed for the following
resource zones: the Primary Forest Zone, the Multiple Use Range Zone, and the
Exclusive Farm Use Zone.  The size limits are in square feet:
TYPE OF SIGN ON OFF AREA
sq ft
HEIGHT
in feet
PROPERTY IDENTIFICATION X 32 20
ADVERTISING AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS X 32 20
SALE  FARM PRODUCTS - TEMPORARY X 32 20
HOME OCCUPATION X 6 20
SALE  OF PROPERTY X 8 20
C. When a piece of property which fronts two or more roads is for sale, one sign meeting the
size criteria for that type of sign may be placed on each street.
D. All sale and rental signs shall be setback 10 feet from the front property line and from
any side property line which abuts a street.
CHAPTER 7 –  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  7 -  13
E. The attached sign for the RSC-1 Zone shall be placed flat against the building.  The size
of the sign shall be calculated to allow one and one-half square feet in sign area for each
linear foot of building frontage paralleling a street or the maximum area listed in the
table, whichever is less.
F. The on-premises detached sign in the RSC-1 Zone shall identify a group of businesses
combined as a shopping center, in addition to permitted sign areas for individual
businesses in the shopping center.
G. In the G-I Zone, one sign, attached to the building, shall be allowed for the building
frontage which faces a street, when the street frontage exceeds 200 feet.  The sign shall
be placed flat against the wall of a building, shall not exceed the size requirements listed
in Section 74.020(A), and shall not exceed 10% of the gross wall area of a building which
faces the street.
H. Signs in the Commercial and Industrial Zones may be illuminated , but shall have no
flashing or moving parts.
I. Signs for a home occupation may not be illuminated.
J. Signs for a Bed and Breakfast Inn may be illuminated from the exterior of the sign.
K. Property identification signs may be illuminated from the exterior of the sign.
L. On premises identification signs shall indicate the name and nature of any occupancy
and/or the name and address of the building.
74.030 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
In addition to specific sign standards listed in Section 74.020, the following provisions shall
apply to all Zones:
A. Signs erected and maintained by or under authority of any federal, state, county, city, or
public utility for the purpose of conveying in formation, warnings, distances,  or directions
are exempt from sign requirements;
B. Temporary political signs are permitted in accordance with the ORS;
C. No permanent or temporary signs shall be erected or placed so that by reason of the
position, shape, or color of the sign, it may interfere with, obstruct the view of, or be
CHAPTER 7 –  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  7 -  14
confused with any authorized traffic sign including "Stop", "Look", "Caution",
"Warning", or any other phrase, word, or symbol to interfere with, mislead, or confuse
traffic;
D. Signs shall be maintained in a neat, clean, and attractive condition;
E. Signs shall be removed within six months after the business, product, or service is
abandoned or no longer used;
F. Signs cannot be located within a county, state, or federal right-of-way;
G. The area of all signs shall be calculated using a measuring traverse.  The measuring
traverse shall be as follows:
1. A rectangle to be placed on the sign face so that the top and bottom sides are
parallel to the ground grade, and whose four sides touch the extreme points of the
outer edge of the sign frame and background;
2. If the sign is of a different geometric shape than a rectangle, then the measuring
traverse is the same shape as the sign to be measured.
CHAPTER 7 –  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  7 -  15
ARTICLE 75 - OFF-STREET PARKING, PEDESTRIAN AND BICYCLE
CIRCULATION
75.010 - PURPOSE
The purpose of off-street parking is to establish and maintain areas for efficient and convenient
parking for residential, civic, commercial, and industrial uses and to provide a safe means for
discharging people and products from ground transportation.
75.020 - APPLICATION
When a structure is erected or enlarged, or the use of an existing structure is changed, off street
parking spaces, loading areas, and access shall be provided as set out in this Article.  Off-street
parking shall not occur in any right-of-way required by this Code.  If parking facilities have been
provided in conjunction with an existing use, the facilities shall not be reduced.
75.030 - OFF STREET PARKING
Off-street parking shall be provided on the development site or within 400 feet of the
development site to be served by the parking facility.  All parking must be located on the same
lot or parcel as the development or on a lot or parcel under the same ownership as the
development site unless a special covenant or agreement is approved by the Review Body, which
will dedicate the parking to the development.
75.040 - PARKING AREA DESIGN
A. All public or private parking areas and parking spaces, except those required in
conjunction with a single-family dwelling on a single lot, shall be designed and laid out
to conform to the minimum standards as set forth in this Section and the property
development standards of the Zone in which the parking area is located.
B. Groups of three or more parking spaces on a single lot, except those in conjunction with
single family dwellings, shall be served by a service road so that no backward movement
or other maneuvering of a vehicle within a street, other than an alley, will be required.
Service roads shall be designed and constructed to facilitate the flow of traffic, provide
maximum safety in traffic ingress and egress, ensure the maximum safety of pedestrians
and vehicular traffic on the site, but in no case shall two-way and one-way driveways be
less than 20 feet and 12 feet wide respectively.
CHAPTER 7 –  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  7 -  16
C. Public parking areas which are a permitted use shall be designed and laid out in
conformance with this Section.
D. Parking space dimensions shall be as follows:
1. Truck or recreational vehicle parking space shall be designed to adequately
accommodate the proposed use;
2. Standard parking space shall be no less than nine (9)  feet wide by 18 feet long;
3. Compact parking space shall be no less than eight (8)  feet wide by 16 feet long.
E. Bicycle racks or designated handicapped parking may be required when parking exceeds
20 spaces per parking area.
75.050 - PARKING SPACES
The actual number of parking spaces required for a development or use will be set by the
applicant.
75.060 - PARKING AREA IMPROVEMENTS
All public or private parking areas which contain three or more parking spaces and outdoor
vehicle sales areas, shall be improved according to the following:
A. If the parking area is not paved, then it shall be surfaced with rock or shale;
B. All parking areas, except those in conjunction with a single-family dwelling, shall be
graded so as not to drain storm water over the public sidewalk or onto any abutting public
or private property without the express permission of the property owner;
C. All parking areas, except those required in conjunction with a single-family dwelling,
shall provide a substantial bumper which will prevent cars from encroachment on
abutting private or public property;
D. Except for single-family dwellings and vehicle sales areas, all parking areas, including
service roads, which do not abut a Commercial or Industrial Zone shall be enclosed along
all interior property lines which do not abut the Commercial or Industrial Zone, by a
fence or wall not less than four feet and not more than six feet in height.  The fence or
CHAPTER 7 –  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  7 -  17
wall shall meet the standards for visual clearance and front and interior yard requirements
as established for the Zone in which it is located:
1. If the fence or wall is not located on the property line, the area between the fence
or wall and the property line shall be landscaped with lawn or low growing
evergreen ground cover or vegetative or rock mulch;
2. All plant vegetation in this area shall be adequately maintained and any fence or
wall shall be maintained in good condition.  Adequate provisions shall be
maintained to protect walls, fences, or plant materials from being damaged by
vehicles using the parking area.
E. Any lights provided to illuminate any public or private parking area or vehicle sales area
shall be shielded or arranged to reflect the light away from any abutting or adjacent
Residential Zone.
75.070 - PEDESTRIAN AND BICYCLE CIRCULATION
A. On-site facilities shall be provided that accommodate safe and convenient pedestrian and
bicycle access within new subdivisions, multi-family developments, planned
development, shopping centers and commercial districts, and connecting to adjacent
residential areas and neighborhood activity centers within one-half mile of the
development.  Residential developments shall include roads with sidewalks and access
ways.  Pedestrian circulation through parking lots shall be provided in the form of access
ways.
CHAPTER 7 –  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  7 -  18
ARTICLE 76 - RURAL/WILDLAND FIRE SAFETY STANDARDS
76.010 - PURPOSE
The purpose of this Article is to establish standards for the placement of structures, and access to
properties in areas where wildfires pose a risk to property and human lives.
76.020 - APPLICATION OF STANDARDS
A. The provisions of this Article shall apply to all lands zoned Primary Forest in Grant
County.
B. Replacement or substantial improvement of legally pre existing dwellings requires
compliance with the development standards set out in Sections 76.030(C), (D), (E), (I),
(J) and (L).
C. Other mandatory fire safety provisions of this Code will not be required for replacement
or substantial improvements unless the structure has not been habitable for more than one
year, or the building is not being replaced at its pre existing location.
D. The provisions of Section 76.050 shall apply to any fireworks operation in the Rural
Industrial Development Combining Zone.
76.030 - DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
All site development will meet or exceed all of the following standards:
A. A plot plan shall be submitted to the Review Body in conformance with the standards of
this Section;
B. No dwelling shall be sited on slopes greater than 40%;
C. All structures shall be placed or constructed with a minimum separation as described in
the adopted Building Codes to reduce the risk of fire spreading from one structure to
another;
D. All dwellings shall have a fire retardant roof and each chimney must have a spark
arrestor;
CHAPTER 7 –  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  7 -  19
E. Adequate access for fire fighting vehicles shall be provided to within 50 feet of all
habitable structures including manufactured dwellings and other significant buildings
constructed or placed, after the effective date of this Code:
1. A structure or fill and culvert shall be provided to cross a live stream, ravine,
irrigation ditch, or similar topographic feature in order to provide access for
emergency vehicles;
2. While the responsibility to provide adequate access rests with the property owner,
the Review Body may require certification from an engineer registered in the
State of Oregon that the structure or fill and culvert has been constructed to
support emergency vehicles grossing a minimum of 50,000 lbs;
3. Any structure or fill and culvert shall be maintained to the design capacity by the
owner of the property.
F. Adequate horizontal and vertical clearance shall be created and maintained on driveways
to permit emergency vehicle access to the dwelling;
1. Minimum surface width shall be 12 feet.  Width shall be increased to a minimum
of 14 feet in curves with a centerline radius of less than 150 feet to ensure
emergency vehicles remain on an all weather surface;
2. An all weather surface does not require paving;
3. Shrubbery and brush should be cleared from each side of the right-of-way, and
tree branches should be trimmed to 14 feet above the road.
G. Grades on driveways shall not exceed 18% as described in Grant County Land
Development Code.
1. An un-surfaced driveway shall not exceed a grade of 12%, or a driveway surfaced
with asphaltic concrete or Portland Cement shall not exceed a maximum grade of
18%;
2. Grade transitions shall not exceed 1% in three feet, on driveways in excess of 100
feet;
3. There shall be a turnout for every 400 feet of driveway length;
CHAPTER 7 –  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  7 -  20
4. Driveways shall be extended to within 50 feet of habitable structures including
manufactured dwellings and other significant buildings, and shall terminate in an
approved cul de sac, clear area, or other turnaround arrangement.
5. Gate widths shall be a minimum of 14 feet unless on a curve where minimum
driveway width is 14 feet, then the gate shall be a minimum of 16 feet.
H. Subdivisions shall not be permitted in box canyons using one way access roads;
I. The dwelling must be located as follows:
1. In a fire protection district protecting structures, or the applicant must provide
evidence of a contract providing residential fire protection for the dwelling; or
2. If the dwelling is not located in a fire protection district protecting structures, the
applicant provides evidence of a request to be included in the district; or
3. If subsections 1 and 2 are not practical, an alternative may be developed utilizing
a fire sprinkling system, on-site equipment and water storage, or other methods
that are reasonable given site conditions.
J. The applicant must provide evidence of a domestic water supply from a source
authorized in accordance with the Water Resources Department's administrative rules for
the appropriation of groundwater or surface water and not from a Class II stream as
designated by the Oregon Department of Fish a nd Wildlife.  For the purpose of this
subsection, evidence of a domestic water supply means;
1. Verification from a water purveyor that the use described in the application will
be served by the purveyor under the purveyor's rights to appropriate water; or
2. A water use permit issued by the Water Resources Department for the use
described in the application; or
3. Verification from the Water Resources Department that a water use permit is not
required for the use described in the application;
4. If the proposed water supply is from a well and is exempt from permitting
requirements under ORS 537.545, the applicant shall submit the well constructor's
report to the County upon completion of the well.
CHAPTER 7 –  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  7 -  21
K. If a water supply is required for fire protection, it shall be a pond, swimming pool, lake,
or similar body of water containing at least 4000 gallons or a stream having a continuous
year round flow of at least one cubic foot per second.  The applicant shall provide
verification from the Water Resources Department that any permits or registrations
required for water diversion or storage have been obtained or that permits or registrations
are not required for the use.  Road access to within 15 feet of the water's edge shall be
provided for pumping units:
1. The road access shall accommodate the turnaround of fire fighting equipment
during the fire season;
2. Permanent signs shall be posted along the access route to indicate the location of
the emergency water source, as required by OAR 660 06 035 (1), as adopted
March 1, 1990.
L. The Primary Safety Zone shall be delineated in Section 76.030(L)(6) around structures,
and shall be maintained as follows:
1. Use of landscape plants within the Primary Safety Zone shall be of a low fuel and
low growing variety;
2. Trees should be pruned to remove dead and low (less than eight feet) branches
and remove any limbs that are touching any structure;
3. Trees should be pruned to provide an eight foot clearance between branches and
chimneys and stove pipes.  No branches overhanging a roof line;
4. Trees shall be thinned to 15 feet spacing between trunks;
5. Underbrush, dry leaves, twigs, weeds and debris shall be removed, and
combustible materials limited;
6. The goal within the primary zone should be to exclude fuels that will produce
flame lengths in excess of one foot:
CHAPTER 7 –  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  7 -  22
S IZE OF  THE PRIMARY SAFETY ZONE
SLOPE SAFETY ZONE IN FEET SAFETY ZONE DOWN
SLOPE IN FEET
0% 100 0
10% 100 50
20% 100 75
25% 100 100
40% 100 150
76.040 - IDENTIFICATION NUMBERS
House numbers shall be posted on lots in a manner to clearly direct emergency equipment to the
location of the dwelling.  Numbers shall be at least three inches high, light reflective, and posted
at driveway entrance and all intersections thereafter.
76.050 - FIREWORKS
The assembly, manufacturing, or preparation of products included in the definition of fireworks
as provided in ORS 480.110(1) shall be conditioned upon the following, in addition to all other
requirements of this Code:
A. At no time shall more than five pounds of any active ingredient of the products be
compounded or present on the premises in an unpackaged form;
B. Fire flow capability shall be provided for the use at a rate of 500 gallons per minute and
that water shall be provided from a municipal source or on site storage with a minimum
capacity as determined by the fire protection agency or company providing fire
protection;
C. A fuel break shall be provided around the facility for a distance of at least 100 feet in all
directions.  The fuel break shall be maintained at all times;
D. The fuel break shall be wholly on the subject property or easements and shall be secured
to provide for the maintenance of the fuel break;
E. All license and permit requirements from state and federal agencies shall be obtained
prior to the commencement of operation of the facility;
CHAPTER 7 –  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  7 -  23
F. The operation shall be conducted in accordance with the most current edition of the
National Fire Protection Association Standards 1124 as adopted in 1984;
G. The facility shall be built to the standards required for any facility using Class "A"
explosives as set forth in the most current edition of the National Fire Protection
Association Standards 1124 as adopted in 1984;
H. A direct alarm system to emergency services shall be installed and maintained at all
times;
I. There shall not be on site testing of the products being assembled, manufactured, or
prepared;
J. A binding contract with a fire protection service shall be in effect at all times for any
facility located outside of a fire protection district.
CHAPTER 7 –  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  7 -  24
ARTICLE 77 - MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR A MANUFACTURED
                    HOME/MOBILE HOME ON INDIVIDUAL LOT
                    AS A SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING
77.010 - PURPOSE
A manufactured home/mobile home permitted as a single-family dwelling on an individual lot
shall be in compliance with the following standards and regulations as a minimum.
A. The manufactured home/mobile home shall be a 14-foot wide or double-wide unit and
shall contain at least 660 square feet of space as determined by measurement of the
exterior dimensions of the unit exclusive of any trailer hitch device.
B. The manufactured home/mobile home unit shall be manufactured after June 15, 1976,
and bear the Oregon Manufactured Dwelling Standard "Insignia of Compliance".  All
pre-owned and pre-occupied units (i.e. used) shall be inspected by a certified Building
Official prior to installation a nd occupancy to e nsure compliance with applicable
standards required for the "Insignia of Compliance" and to e nsure that such units are in a
condition to not be detrimental to the public health, safety and general welfare or to
adjoining properties.
C. The manufactured home/mobile home shall be installed according to the manufacturer's
instructions approved by the Oregon State Manufactured Dwelling Standard, and all road
and transient lights, wheels, and the hitch shall be removed.
D. The manufactured home/mobile home shall have a continuous perimeter of skirting that
shall be composed of the same material an d finish as the exterior of the manufactured
home/mobile home or of brick, concrete, or masonry block.  Such skirting shall be secure
against the entrance of animals, but there shall be provisions for ventilation and access to
the space under the unit.
E. All plumbing, electric and gas service connections shall be made according to
instructions approved by the Oregon State Manufactured Dwelling Standard.
F. All manufactured home/mobile home accessory buildings and structures shall comply
with state and local construction and installation standards.  Manufactured home/mobile
home accessory structures include porches and steps, awnings, cabanas, carports, or any
other structure or addition that depends in part on the manufactured home/mobile home
for its structural support, or in any manner is immediately adjacent to or attached to the
manufactured home/mobile home.  Such structures or additions shall not total more than
CHAPTER 7 –  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  7 -  25
30% of the total living space of the mobile home and such structures or additions
combined.  Roofing and siding materials shall be of similar material and color and
complimentary to the existing manufactured home/mobile home unit.
G. The owner of the property shall remove the foundation and all accessory structures and
additions to the manufactured home/mobile home and permanently disconnect sewer,
water and other utilities if the manufactured home/mobile home is removed from its
foundation unless otherwise authorized by the County.  In the event the owner fails to
accomplish said work within 30 days from the date on which the manufactured
home/mobile home is moved, the County may perform such work and place a lien against
the property for the cost of such work.  This condition shall not apply in the event that the
manufactured home/mobile home is replaced on the original foundation, or on the
original foundation as modified, or by another approved manufactured home/mobile
home within 30 days of the original unit's removal.  Said lien may be initiated by the
County Court.
CHAPTER 7 –  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  7 -  26
ARTICLE 78 - AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD REQUIREMENTS
78.010 - AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD OR JUNK YARD
In considering a Conditional Use application for an automobile wrecking yard or junk yard, the
Planning C ommission may require that it be enclosed and screened from public view by a sight-
obscuring fence not less than six feet in height.  If applicable, the Planning Commission shall be
assured that the proposal is or will be in conformance with applicable State regulations.
CHAPTER 7 –  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  7 -  27
ARTICLE 79 - MOBILE HOME PARK STANDARDS
79.010 - MOBILE HOME PARK
A. Sewage disposal shall be approved by the Department of Environmental Quality.
B. The space provided for each mobile home shall be provided with piped potable water ,
electrical and sewage connections and shall not be less than 40 feet in length.
C. The number of spaces for mobile homes shall not exceed 12 for each acre of the total area
in the mobile home park , except that the commission may vary this density as follows:
1. If dedicated open space equals 50% or more of the total area of the park, a
maximum 10% increase in units per acre may be granted.
2. If in addition to (1) a maintained playground area with approved equipment, such
as goal posts, swings, slides, etc., is provided, the maximum increase in units per
acre may be increased an additional 5%.
3. If in addition to (1) and (2) an approved recreation/community building is
provided an additional 10% increase of units/acre may be allowed (maximum
total increase possible-25%).
D. No mobile home in the park shall be located closer than 15 feet from another mobile
home or from a general use building in the park.  No mobile home or other building or
structure shall be within 25 feet of a public street property boundary or 10 feet of another
property boundary.
E. A mobile home permitted in the park shall meet the following standards as determined by
an inspection by the Building Official.
1. It shall have a State insignia indicating compliance with Oregon State Home
Construction Standards in effect at the time of manufacture.
2. It shall contain not less than 225 square feet of space as determined by
measurement of the exterior of the unit exclusive of any trailer hitch device.
F. A mobile home permitted in the park shall be provided with a continuous skirting.
CHAPTER 7 –  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS Page  7 -  28
G. The land which is used for park purposes may be required to be surrounded, except at
entry and exit places, by a sight-obscuring fence or hedge not less than six feet in height.
H. If the park provides spaces for 50 or more mobile home units, each vehicular way in the
park shall be named and marked with signs which are similar in appearance to those used
to identify public streets.  A map of the named vehicular ways shall be provided to the
appropriate fire departments.
I. Open Space .  A minimum of at least 2,500 square feet plus 100 square feet per mobile
home space may be required to be provided for a recreational play area group or
community activities.  (No play area is required if the individual mobile home spaces
contain in excess of 4,000 square feet.)
J. Parking Space Requirements .  A parking space shall be provided for each mobile home
space on the site.  In addition, guest parking spaces shall also be provided  in every mobile
home park within 200 feet of the mobile home spaces served and at a ratio of one parking
space for each two mobile home spaces.
K. Roadways within the park shall be improved with an all-weather dustless surface and
shall not be less than 30 feet in width if parking is permitted on the margin of the
roadway, or less than 20 feet in width if parking is not permitted on the edge of the
roadway and an adequate designated area is provided and improved for guest parking and
tenant recreational vehicles.
L. No mobile home park shall be created on a site less than one acre, except as approved by
the Planning Commission.