CHAPTER 3 –  PUBLIC HEARINGS, NOTICE & APPEAL Page  3 -  1
CHAPTER 3 - PUBLIC HEARINGS, NOTICE & APPEAL
ARTICLE 30 - BASIC PROVISIONS
30.010 - PURPOSE
The purpose of this Chapter is to prescribe procedures for the conduct of public hearings, public
notice requirements, and the appeal of decisions reached as a result of the Review Procedures
described in Chapter 2.
30.020 - APPLICATIONS
A. All documentation relied upon by  the applicant in support of a permit or any application
processed using an Administrative Review Procedure under Article 22, where no pub lic
hearing is required by this Code, shall be submitted to the Planning Department.
B. All documents or evidence relied upon by the applicant in s upport of an application
which requires a public hearing as established by this Code, shall be submitted to the
Planning Department by 5 p.m. 10 days prior to the date notice is mailed.
C. If additional documents or evidence is submitted in support of an application before or at
the public hearing, any party shall be entitled to a continuance of the hearing. The hearing
continuance shall not be subject to the 150 day time limitation for final local action per
ORS 215.427.
D. Unless there is a continuance, if a participant so requests before the conclusion of the
initial evidentiary hearing, the record shall remain open for at least seven days after the
hearing. Such an extension shall not be subject to the limitations of the 150 day rule
found in ORS 215.427.
E. Review of an application or a public hearing on an applica tion shall not be scheduled or
noticed until the application is deemed complete by the Planning Director.
30.030 - STAFF REPORTS
Staff reports shall be available for public inspection at least seven days prior to the date of the
public hearing.
CHAPTER 3 –  PUBLIC HEARINGS, NOTICE & APPEAL Page  3 -  2
30.040 - GENERAL PROCEDURES
A. The Planning Director shall develop forms to be used for all applications and the appeal
of all applications set out in this Chapter.
B. The burden of proof is on the applicant and/or the appellan t to complete the forms and to
substantiate the information presented on the application and/or appeal forms.
C. The Planning Director may reject applications or appeals which are not complete.
D. In the context of this Chapter, the term "applicant" shall have the following meaning:
1. When the original Review or Hearing Body hears and decides on the application,
the applicant is the person(s) submitting the application;
2. When a decision is appealed, the applicant is the person(s) filing the appeal;
3. The proponent and opponent shall be considered in the  same context as Section
30.040(D)(1) & (2) above.
CHAPTER 3 –  PUBLIC HEARINGS, NOTICE & APPEAL Page  3 -  3
ARTICLE 31 - PUBLIC HEARINGS
31.010 - PURPOSE
This Article shall govern the conduct of all quasi-judicial and legislative land use hearings within
Grant County, including all urban growth boundary areas which are held or made by the County
Court or its designates. Such hearings include all proceedings before the Hearings Officer,
Planning Commission, or the County Court, and may involve comprehensive plan changes, zone
changes, subdivision or partition platting, conditional use permit, changes in non-conforming
uses, appeals, and the interpretation and administration of ordinances, codes, laws, and items
referred by the Planning Director, as well as all other official actions upon application or request.
31.020 - SPECIAL HEARINGS
A. The Planning Director may process any question or decision regarding the administration
of this Code by a special hearing before the Planning Commission or the Hearings
Officer if the issue: is complex; will have a substantial impact on the area; raises
questions of a substantive nature. The Presiding Officer of the Hearing Body assigned to
hear the matter shall be consulted before the matter is scheduled.
B. The Planning Director may appoint a special fact-finder(s) to investigate any
circumstance or question concerning this Code. The Planning Director shall consult with
County Legal Counsel prior to appointing a special fact-finder(s):
1. The Planning Director shall establish the scope of the investigation and the
procedures which will be followed during the inquiry;
2. The special fact-finder(s) shall report to the Planning Director and shall submit
their results and/or findings as a recommendation to the Director.
C. Notice of a special hearing shall be given in accordance with Article 32.
D. The special hearing shall be conducted according to the rules set out in Article 31.
31.030 - REQUESTS FOR HEARING
A. A hearing as provided in these rules shall be initiated in one of the following ways:
1. By motion of the Court or the Planning Commission;
CHAPTER 3 –  PUBLIC HEARINGS, NOTICE & APPEAL Page  3 -  4
2. By an application filed with the Planning Dire ctor in conformance with Code
requirements and this Article; or
3. By written directive of the Planning Director.
B. In cases where the hearing is initiated by a motion of the Court or Planning Commission:
1. The motion shall set forth the specific issue or issues to be considered in the
hearing and shall identify, if appropriate, those who will be recognized as parties
to the proceedings for the purpose of notice as required by Article 32 of this Code.
The motion may relate to new matters, matters for rehearing, or previous decision
requiring clarification or explanation;
2. The decision to issue or not issue a motion shall lie entirely within the discretion
of the Court or Planning Commission, and the reason or reasons for the action
need not be specified in the motion;
3. In all cases, the Court or Planning Commission shall cause notice of the hearing
to be given in accordance with Article 32 of this Code.
C. In cases where the hearing is initiated by application, the application shall meet all the
requirements for the type of application submitted as set out in Chapters 4 and 5.
D. In cases initiated at the direction of the Planning Director, the Director shall prepare a
written statement of the matter to be considered. The statement shall include the
following:
1. The name of the Hearing Body that will hear the request, as determined at the
Director's discretion; and
2. A statement of the factual background or circumstances giving rise to the request,
the applicable criteria, and the issue or issues requiring resolution.
E. In the event the request involves specific property or properties, notice of the hearing
shall be given in accordance with Article 32 of this Code.
31.040 - NATURE OF HEARING
A. Land use hearings conducted pursuant to this Article which are quasi-judicial
administrative determinations shall be conducted according to the rules and procedures
CHAPTER 3 –  PUBLIC HEARINGS, NOTICE & APPEAL Page  3 -  5
governing those actions. All applicants are entitled to a notice of the hearing, to an
opportunity to be heard, to present and rebut evidence before an impartial Hearing Body,
to have the proceedings recorded, and to have a decision rendered in accordance with the
facts on record and the law.
B. Land use hearings conducted pursuant to this Article which are legislative determinations
shall be conducted according to the rules and procedures governing those actions. Notice
of the hearing shall be published and the public shall be invited to testify, to present and
rebut evidence before an impartial Hearing Body, to have the proceedings recorded, and
to have a decision rendered.
C. Hearings held pursuant to this Article are proceedings and the applicant(s) shall appear in
person or through an attorney or authorized representative.
31.050 - PRESIDING OFFICER
A. The Hearing Body shall designate one of its members to preside over the proceedings.
The Presiding Officer shall have the authority to:
1. Regulate the course and decorum of the meetings;
2. Dispose of procedural requests or similar matters;
3. Rule on offers of proof and relevancy of evidence;
4. Impose reasonable limitations on the number of witnesses heard and set
reasonable time limits for oral presentations, cross-examination, and rebuttal
testimony;
5. Question any person appearing, and allow other members to question the person;
6. Waive, at the Presiding Officer's discretion, the application of any Section of this
Article where the circumstances of the hearing indicate it would be expedient and
proper to do so, provided the waiver does not act to prejudice or deny any party
their substantial rights as provided in this Code or otherwise by law;
7. Take any other actions as authorized by the Court or Commission to appropriately
conduct the hearing.
CHAPTER 3 –  PUBLIC HEARINGS, NOTICE & APPEAL Page  3 -  6
B. All procedural decisions of the Presiding Officer shall be those of the Hearing Body
unless the Presiding Officer is overruled by a majority vote of the members of the
Hearing Body.
31.060 - CONDUCT OF PARTICIPANTS
Proceedings shall, at all times, be orderly and respectful. No person shall be heard until they state
their name and address for the record. The Presiding Officer may terminate the hearing when
necessary or refuse to recognize anyone who:
A. Is disorderly, abusive, and/or disruptive;
B. Takes part in or encourages audience demonstrations, including applause, cheering,
display of signs, or other conduct disruptive of the hearing;
C. Testifies without first receiving recognition from the Presiding Officer and stating their
full name and residential address;
D. Presents irrelevant, immaterial, or repetitious evidence.
31.070 - BURDEN AND NATURE OF PROOF
A. The burden of proof shall be on the applicant. The more a proposed use or structure
changes existing land use patterns, or causes impacts on surrounding lands or the
community, the greater the burden of proof shall be on the applicant to show the request
complies with all applicable criteria. The applicant shall address all the criteria listed in
the staff report as it applies to the request. For purposes of an appeal, the burden of proof
shall be upon the appellant. The applicant may present rebuttal evidence to the
information in the staff report, as appropriate, to  meet the requirements of this s ubsection.
B. The decision of the Hearing Body shall be based upon substantial evidence and be
supported by the record. The applicant shall address the required criteria and present
evidence as appropriate to the specific proposal. In addition to the standards and criteria
for the specific type of application, the Hearing Body shall deem the following criteria
applicable to its decisions:
1. Conformance with the Grant County Comprehensive Plan to include its Goals,
Policies and Implementing Measures;
CHAPTER 3 –  PUBLIC HEARINGS, NOTICE & APPEAL Page  3 -  7
2. Conformance with applicable State Laws, Rules, and Regulations pertaining to
land use and the specific proposal, including the applicable Oregon
Administrative Rules in Chapter 660 and guidelines contained in the State Wide
Planning Goals;
3. Conformance with the Land Development Code, the Building Code, Health Code,
and similar requirements as they relate to the specific proposal;
4. Conformance with general development considerations, such as the preservation
of the character of the area involved, the properties peculiar suitability for
particular uses, the conservation of property values, and the current direction of
building development;
5. Whether or not a mistake has been made in the original Comprehensive Plan
designation;
6. Whether or not a change of circumstances has occurred so that the existing
condition within the vicinity of the proposal no longer conforms to the intent of
the Comprehensive Plan, or applicable codes.
31.080 - DISCLOSURE RULE
A. Pre-Hearing/Ex parte Contact:
1. Members of the Hearing Body shall avoid significant ex parte and pre-hearing
contacts with interested parties to the proposal so that their deliberations and
recommendations can be based on the evidence presented at the time of the public
hearing. Any contacts shall be revealed at the commencement of the hearing or
when identified, and:
a. If the contacts have not significantly impaired the member's impartiality or
ability to vote on the matter, the member shall so state and may
participate; or
b. If the contacts have significantly impaired the member's impartiality and
ability to vote on the matter, the member shall so state and shall abstain
from voting on the matter. The member may be counted for purposes of
forming a quorum.
CHAPTER 3 –  PUBLIC HEARINGS, NOTICE & APPEAL Page  3 -  8
2. Parties to the request may challenge the impartiality of a member of the Hearing
Body based on ex parte contact. The disqualification of a challenged member is
discretionary and shall be determined by a majority vote of the unchallenged
members. A quorum is not required for a vote of disqualification. In no case shall
any member participate in a vote concerning his or her own disqualification;
3. Contact with County staff does not constitute ex parte contact.
B. Conflict of Interest. In addition to the ex parte and pre-hearing contacts, no member of
the governing body shall participate in any vote on a proposal when:
1. The member (or spouse, brother, sister, child, parent, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, or any business in which the member has a financial interest, or any business
which the member is negotiating for) has a direct or substantial financial interest
in the proposal;
2. The member has an interest in property within the area entitled to receive notice
of the public hearing under Article 32;
3. The member has a relationship with the applicant or other participants so that the
member is unable to be reasonably impartial in reaching a decision;
4. For any other reason specified by State Law;
5. No other official or employee of the County who has a financial interest or other
private interest in the proposal shall participate in discussion with or give an
official opinion on the proposal without first declaring for the record the nature
and extent of the conflict of interest.
31.090 - CHALLENGE FOR BIAS, PREJUDICE, OR CONFLICT OF INTEREST
A. Any applicant or opponent of a proposal may challenge the qualification of any member
to participate in such hearing and decision because of bias, prejudice or conflict of
interest.
B. The challenge may be oral or in writing, and shall state the facts relied upon for the
challenge.
C. The challenge must be submitted, to the Planning Commission at the time set for the
public hearing.
CHAPTER 3 –  PUBLIC HEARINGS, NOTICE & APPEAL Page  3 -  9
D. The challenged member(s) shall have an opportunity at the hearing:
1. To agree with the challenge and withdraw from participation in the Hearing and
decision; or
2. To disagree with the challenge and respond orally and in writing.
E. The challenge and any response shall be incorporated into the record of the hearing.
31.100 - PARTIES
A. Person(s) speaking at the hearing shall identify themselves as:
1. A witness only; or
2. A party as defined in Section 11.030; or
3. A County Official.
B. Person(s) appearing at a hearing either orally or in writing (including those representing
an organization) shall state at the beginning of their testimony the facts which support
their status as a party or a witness:
1. Persons who were not entitled to notice, but who claim party status because they
will be adversely affected by the decision, shall identify and document the facts
showing how they will be adversely affected. Persons who fail to do so shall be
witnesses;
2. At the close of their statement of facts on how they will be adversely affected, the
Presiding Officer will promptly rule on whether that person will be treated as a
party or not;
3. The ruling of the Presiding Officer on this point shall be the ruling of the Hearing
Body unless the Hearing Body votes to overruled the Presiding Officer
C. After party status has been determined, anyone challenging the ruling shall be heard
immediately and the Presiding Officer (or the Hearing Body) may change its decision on
party status.
CHAPTER 3 –  PUBLIC HEARINGS, NOTICE & APPEAL Page  3 -  10
31.110 - RULES OF EVIDENCE
A. All evidence offered and not properly objected to may be received unless otherwise
excluded by the Hearing Body.
B. All documents or evidence relied upon by the applicant shall be submitted to the Planning
Director as specified in Section 30.020(B) and shall be made available to the public for
inspection.
C. All evidence received by the Hearing Body shall be made a part of the record of the case,
except for matters stipulated to and matters judicially noticeable. No other factual
information or evidence shall be considered in the determination of the case.
Documentary evidence may be received in the form of copies or excerpts, or by
incorporation by reference (if the document so incorporated is a public record not exempt
from inspection).
D. Cross-examination shall be at the discretion of the Hearing Body. Any cross-examination
question shall be directed to the Presiding Officer who will determine if the cross-
examination will benefit the Hearing Body. If the Presiding Officer determines the
question will help in the decision, the Presiding Officer will ask the question to the party
or witness appropriate to answer. In all cases, cross-examination shall be conducted in a
non-inflammatory manner. The Presiding Officer may terminate cross-examination if it
becomes disruptive to the hearing.
E. Judicial notice may be taken of any ORS, OAR, Federal, State, or local rule or regulation,
general fact, and/or scientific fact within the experience, technical competence, or
specialized knowledge of a member of the Hearing Body, staff, or technical witness
called by either side. Opportunity will be given for rebuttal of these facts.
F. No decision shall be rendered except upon consideration of the whole record, or portions
as may be cited by the Hearing Body, and as supported by, and in accordance with,
reliable, probative, and substantial evidence.
G. The Hearing Body at its discretion may be represented by the County Legal Counsel.
31.120 - ORDER OF PROCEDURE
The Presiding Officer shall conduct the hearing in an orderly fashion, within the guidelines in
this Section. However, the technical rules of parliamentary procedure shall be avoided so the
hearing may be conducted in a clear, simple and fair manner.
CHAPTER 3 –  PUBLIC HEARINGS, NOTICE & APPEAL Page  3 -  11
A. Quorum. The Presiding Officer shall establish a quorum:
1. If a member of the Hearing Body must leave prior to the close of the particular
proposal at hand, losing the quorum, the Presiding Officer shall so state, and shall
proceed with the hearing for purposes of taking evidence and testimony;
2. The members shall not vote on the proposal until the absent member has reviewed
the evidence and testimony taken;
3. At the close of the hearing, the Hearing Body shall continue the request to a date
and time certain for deliberation and decision when the absent member can
participate;
4. If the request cannot be continued to a date and time certain during the public
hearing, the Planning Director shall reschedule the request as soon as possible and
give new notice as set out in Article 32;
5. If a quorum is not present, a Hearing Body shall continue (reschedule) the agenda
to a date and time certain.
B. Commencement. The Presiding Officer shall announce the nature and purpose of the
hearing, summarize the rules for the conduct of the hearing, identify the name of each
applicant, and describe the general nature of each proposal. In addition, the Presiding
Officer shall announce the following:
1. All testimony and evidence must be directed toward the criteria required by
Section 31.120(E);
2. All speakers that fail to raise an issue in a hearing, in person or by letter, with
sufficient specificity to afford the Hearing Body an opportunity to respond to the
issue precludes a local or LUBA appeal based on that issue; (RAISE IT OR
WAIVE IT)
C. Abstentions. The Presiding Officer shall inquire of the Hearing Body whether any
member wishes to abstain from participation in the hearing on a specific proposal:
1. Any member so abstaining shall identify the reasons for the record and shall not
participate in the discussion of, or vote on the proposal;
CHAPTER 3 –  PUBLIC HEARINGS, NOTICE & APPEAL Page  3 -  12
2. Any member whose participation has been challenged by an allegation of bias,
prejudice, conflict of interest, or pre-judgment, or who has been subject to
significant ex parte or pre-hearing contacts with proponents or opponents, may
make a statement explaining the nature of the conflict or bias for the record, and
shall announce whether the member will participate in the hearing as set forth in
Section 31.080.
D. Objection to Jurisdiction. The Presiding Officer shall inquire of the audience if there are
any objections to the jurisdiction of the Hearing Body to hear the matter. Objections, if
any, shall be noted in the record, and the matter shall proceed or terminate at the
discretion of the Hearing Body.
E. Criteria.  The Presiding Officer shall request the Planning Director or staff member to
present the criteria from the Land Development Code, the Comprehensive Plan, the Goals
and Policies, or other document as required under ORS 197.763(5), under which the
request shall be reviewed.
F. Staff Report. The Presiding Officer shall request the Planning Director or a member of
staff be present at the meeting to report and indicate the action required.
G. Proponent's Case. The Presiding Officer shall allow the applicant or appellant to
comment and present evidence in support of the application or appeal as follows:
1. 10 minutes for the proponent to make introductory comments and present
evidence;
2. 5 minutes for each witness called by the proponent;
3. 5 minutes for each audience member speaking in favor of the proposal;
4. 5 minutes for cross-examination of planning staff regarding the Staff Report
subject to the general rules of cross-examination set out in Section 31.110(D); and
5. The time allocations for the proponent's case may be adjusted at the discretion of
the Hearing Body to expedite the hearing or promote fairness.
H. Opponent's Case. The Presiding Officer shall allow opponents to comment and present
evidence in opposition to the proposal as follows:
CHAPTER 3 –  PUBLIC HEARINGS, NOTICE & APPEAL Page  3 -  13
1. 10 minutes for a representative of the opponents to make introductory comments
and present evidence;
2. 5 minutes for each witness or party to speak in opposition to the proposal;
3. 5 minutes for each audience member speaking in opposition to the proposal;
4. 5 minutes for cross-examination of planning staff regarding the Staff Report
subject to the general rules of cross-examination set out in Section 31.110(D); and
5. The time allocations for the opponent's case may be adjusted at the discretion of
the Hearing Body to expedite the hearing or promote fairness.
I. Neutral. Any audience member wishing to ask the Presiding Officer for clarification on
procedural or substantive issues may be heard at the discretion of the Presiding Officer
prior to the call for Rebuttal as follows:
1. The audience member shall give their name and address for the record and
address their request for clarification to the Presiding Officer;
2. If acknowledged as a neutral participant, the audience member need not speak in
favor or against the proposal;
3. After receiving a response by or through the Presiding Officer, the participant
may request to establish party or witness status in order to go on record as a
proponent or opponent; and
4. If status is approved by the Presiding Officer, the initial neutral status of the
participant will be altered and recorded as testimony by a proponent or opponent
or witness thereto within the time frames given in (G) or (H) above.
J. Rebuttal. The Presiding Officer shall allow the applicant to cross-examine the opponent
by addressing questions to the Presiding Officer, and otherwise rebut any new matters
presented by the opponents or their witnesses. The Hearing Body may allow the opponent
to offer rebuttal to the applicant's rebuttal if:
1. The applicant has provided new arguments in the rebuttal; and
2. The opponent has specific responses to the new arguments.
CHAPTER 3 –  PUBLIC HEARINGS, NOTICE & APPEAL Page  3 -  14
K. Continuances. The Hearing Body may grant a continuance of the hearing whenever it
concludes additional time is reasonably required to either evaluate evidence in the record
or to obtain additional evidence. In addition, continuances shall be granted in the
following circumstances:
1. If the applicant places additional documents or evidence in the record, any party
to the hearing may request the hearing be continued in order to review the
additional documents or evidence. The period of continuance shall not count
against the 150 day limit for final action specified in ORS 215.427;
2. If a continuance has not otherwise been granted, any participant may request the
record remain open for at least seven days after the hearing. The request must be
made before the close of the evidentiary hearing and the period of continuance
shall not count against the 150 day limit for final action specified in ORS
215.427.
L. Summation. The Presiding Officer shall allow the proponent and opponent five minutes,
or other reasonable time limit determined by the Hearing Body, to summarize their
arguments.
M. Discussion. At the close of the proponents and the opponents summation, the Planning
Staff shall review the applicable criteria, the evidence submitted, and the staff
recommendation. The members of the Hearing Body shall be allowed to openly discuss
the proposal and further question staff members or any party appearing for or against the
proposal.
N. Close of Hearing. The Presiding Officer shall close the public hearing when certain that
all of the testimony has been heard, and all questions have been answered:
1. If there should be a need to discuss the proposal with any person who is not a
member of the Hearing Body, the Presiding Officer shall re-open the public
hearing for that purpose;
2. Upon satisfaction of the situation, and an opportunity for comment and/or rebuttal
by the proponent, the opponent and staff, the Presiding Officer shall again close
the public hearing.
31.130 - FINAL ACTION
A. At the close of the public hearing, the Hearing Body may:
CHAPTER 3 –  PUBLIC HEARINGS, NOTICE & APPEAL Page  3 -  15
1. On a quasi-judicial application:
a. Approve the application as submitted;
b. Deny the application;
c. Approve the application with certain conditions as it deems appropriate; or
d. Continue the application for further study, a site visit, deliberations, or a
decision to a date and time certain.
2. On a legislative matter:
a. Approve the matter as submitted;
b. Deny the matter;
c. Approve the matter with conditions as it deems appropriate; or
d. Continue the matter for further study, a site visit, deliberations, or a
decision to a date and time certain.
B. The decision of the Hearing Body shall be made after the hearing is closed and
deliberations are completed, and shall be in the form of a motion, duly seconded, and
approved by a majority of the members. The Presiding Officer may poll each member
regarding their vote and the reasons for it. All members shall state their vote for the
record.
C. A quasi-judicial decision of the Hearing Body shall not become final until written
findings of fact are prepared and approved by a majority vote of the participating
members, signed by the Presiding Officer or a designate, and mailed as required by
Article 32. The findings shall include the criteria, standards for approval, the facts relied
on in making the decision, and a statement showing how the facts, when applied to the
criteria, justify the final action.
D. A legislative matter shall become final upon the second reading of the Ordinance, in a
public meeting. Notice of the adoption shall be sent to DLCD. Local notice of the
adoption shall be deemed given by a notice of the date for the second reading by
publication.
CHAPTER 3 –  PUBLIC HEARINGS, NOTICE & APPEAL Page  3 -  16
31.140 - RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS AND DECISIONS
A. The Presiding Officer of the Hearing Body shall designate a person to record the
proceedings electronically or stenographically. The proceedings shall not be transcribed
unless required for appeal, review, or unless otherwise ordered by the Court, Commission
or Hearings Officer.
B. All exhibits received in evidence shall be marked or otherwise made readily available and
identifiable for purposes of review. Evidence or exhibits of unusual size or bulk, which
cannot be conveniently held, shall not be received. All exhibits received into the record
shall be retained by the Planning Director on behalf of the Hearing Body, and shall be
made accessible per ORS Chapter 192 for inspection or copying by interested persons,
subject to a reasonable copying fee. When all appeal periods have expired, the Planning
Director is authorized to dispose of the exhibits.
C. The Planning Director shall hold all sound recordings made of hearings items for the
following time periods after the date of the last meeting on that item. The tapes shall be
made available for inspection or copying by interested persons, subject to a reasonable
charge for copying:
1. If a meeting is fully transcribed, hold the tapes for 90 days;
2. If the meeting is summarized in minutes, hold the tapes for one year;
3. If the meetin g is summarized in formal findi ngs, hold the tapes for five years;
4. If minutes or findings are not done, the tape cannot be erased and must be kept
forever.
D. Findings of fact are to be compiled for each decision taken at a hearing. Responsibility
for preparation of this document shall be determined by the Presiding Officer of the
Hearing Body at the close of each hearing on any matter.
E. Notice of the decision shall be mailed to Parties as defined in Section 11.030, who perfect
status under Section 31.100(B) who request a copy of the notice in writing at the Hearing.
CHAPTER 3 –  PUBLIC HEARINGS, NOTICE & APPEAL Page  3 -  17
ARTICLE 32 - PUBLIC NOTICE
32.010 - PURPOSE
The purpose of public notice is to provide an opportunity for affected or interested persons to
participate in the local land use review and decision process.
32.020 - NOTICE SCHEDULE
A. The Planning Director shall determine the type of notice required for each decision, and
may provide additional notice, in such a way that all persons reasonably determined to be
potentially affected by a local land use decision receive actual notice.
B. The notice requirements for the various types of land use, development, and land division
decisions are set forth in Sections 32.030 through 32.070.
32.030 - TYPES OF NOTICE
A. Notices shall be sent by first class mail at least 10 days prior to the date of review for all
applications processed as a Type II Review Procedure under Article 22, a Planning
Commission Review under Article 24, a Hearings Officer Review under Article 23, or a
County Court Review under Article 25 and at least 20 days prior to a hearing, to the
following persons:
1. The applicant and subject property owner;
2. To all property owners, or contract purchasers of record, as shown on the most
recent property tax assessment roll where such property is located:
a. Within 100 feet of the property which is the subject of the notice where
the property is wholly or in part within an urban growth boundary;
b. Within 250 feet of the property which is the subject of the notice where
the property is outside an urban growth boundary and not within a farm or
forest zone;
c. Within 750 feet of the property which is the subject of the notice where
the property is within a farm or forest zone;
CHAPTER 3 –  PUBLIC HEARINGS, NOTICE & APPEAL Page  3 -  18
d. To each mailing address for tenants of a mobile home park for an
application involving property encompassing all or part of a mobile home
park. The applicant shall provide a mailing list of all tenants of the park;
e. To a public airport owner for a zone change if:
1. The zone could permit development of a structure greater than 35
feet in height, and the property is inside the runway "approach
surface" as defined by the Oregon Department of Transportation;
and
2. The subject property is within 5,000 feet of the side or end of a
runway.
f. To all property owners within 500 feet of a parcel when a change of
comprehensive plan designation and zone change, or a zone change is
proposed;
g. To all property owners within 500 feet of a proposed quarry, mining, or
processing operation;
h. To the Citizen Advisory Committee, if any are certified in the area the
application is located;
i. The Planning Director may increase the notice list for applications which
may have an impact beyond the limitations in Section 32.030(A)(2)(a)-(h).
3. Notice of the final action on a land use application or application for division of
land shall be sent to all participants who have been officially recognized as
parties.
B. When required by Section 32.060, notice shall be given by publication in a newspaper of
general circulation in the area affected, published at least 10 days prior to the date of the
hearing.
C. The hearing may be continued when necessary to gather additional information, to visit
the site, or to respond to new information presented after the 10 day deadline has passed.
No additional notice is required provided the hearing is continued to a date and time
certain. If an application is continued without setting a date and time certain, additional
notice as originally required shall be sent.
CHAPTER 3 –  PUBLIC HEARINGS, NOTICE & APPEAL Page  3 -  19
D. Cost of the first notice shall be included in the application fee.
E. Additional or subsequent notices may require a fee.
32.040 - CONTENT OF MAILED NOTICE
A. Notice of the review date for the application or an evidentiary hearing before the Review
or Hearing Body shall contain the following information, as appropriate:
1. The date, time, and location of the hearing;
2. Nature of the application and the proposed use or uses which could be authorized;
3. A list of the applicable criteria from the Comprehensive Plan, Land Development
Code, and State Goals by reference only. A statement shall be included indicating
where the criteria can be viewed or copies purchased;
4. A description of the subject property, reasonably calculated to give notice of its
actual location;
5. A statement that failure to raise an issue in a hearing, in person or by letter, with
sufficient specificity to afford the Review or Hearing Body an opportunity to
respond to the issue precludes a local or LUBA appeal based on that issue;
(RAISE IT OR WAIVE IT)
6. Name of a local government representative to contact and the telephone number
where additional information may be obtained;
7. Statement that a copy of the application, all documents and evidence relied upon
by the applicant and applicable criteria are available for inspection at no cost and
copies will be provided at a reasonable cost;
8. Statement that a copy of the staff report will be available for inspection at no cost
at least seven days prior to the hearing and copies will be provided at a reasonable
cost;
9. A general explanation of the requirements for submission of testimony and the
procedure for the conduct of hearings.
CHAPTER 3 –  PUBLIC HEARINGS, NOTICE & APPEAL Page  3 -  20
B. Where the application is made for a change of zone classification, the Planning Director
shall have the discretion to include within the notice of hearing, that the Hearing Body
may consider a more restrictive zone classification than requested in the application.
32.050 - RECEIPT OF NOTICE
Failure of any party to receive notice shall not nullify a land use decision.
32.060 - NOTICE SCHEDULE
TYPE OF APPLICATION REQUIREMENT
Adminstrative Permit Mailed
Temporary Use Permit Mailed
Variance
Mailed
Published
Conditional Use Permit Mailed
Subdivision
Mailed
Published
Land Partition Mailed
Replat
Mailed
Published
Planned Unit Development
Mailed
Published
Change of Zone Designation: Quasi-Judicial
Mailed
Published
Change of Plan Designation: Quasi-Judicial
Mailed
Published
Legislative Amendment:  Comprehensive Plan, Data Base,
Goals & Policies, & Land Development Code Text
Mailed
Published
Appeal to County Court
Mailed
Published
CHAPTER 3 –  PUBLIC HEARINGS, NOTICE & APPEAL Page  3 -  21
32.070 - NOTICE TO PUBLIC AGENCIES
Information that should be conveyed to reviewers includes:
A. Project location.
B. Proposed land use action.
C. Location of project access points.
D. Additional information that could be supplied to the reviewer upon request (provided the
information is available) includes a site plan showing the following:
1. Distances to neighboring constructed access points, median openings, traffic
signals, intersections and other transportation features on both sides of the
property.
2. Number and direction of lanes to be constructed on the driveway plus striping
plans.
3. All planned transportation features (lanes, signals, bikeways, walkways,
crosswalks etc.).
4. Trip generation data or appropriate traffic studies.
5. Parking and internal circulation plans for vehicles and pedestrians.
6. Plot map showing property lines, right-of-way and ownership abutting properties.
7. A detailed description of any requested variance.
CHAPTER 3 –  PUBLIC HEARINGS, NOTICE & APPEAL Page  3 -  22
ARTICLE 33 - APPEAL OF DECISIONS
33.010 - PURPOSE
The purpose of this Article is to establish uniform procedures for the appeal of decisions
rendered pursuant to this Code.
33.020 - APPEAL AUTHORITY
A. Final actions made under the following review procedures may be appealed to the County
Planning Commission:
1. Type II Administrative Review - Article 22
B. Final actions made under the following review procedures may be appealed to the County
Court:
1. Hearings Officer - Article 23
2. Planning Commission - Article 24
C. Recommendations to another Review or Hearing Body do not constitute a final action
and cannot be appealed.
33.030 - APPEALS
A. An action by the Planning Director may be appealed to the Planning Commission and an
action by the Hearings Officer, or the Planning Commission may be appealed to the
County Court by a party filing a statement of appeal with the Planning Director within:
1. 21 days after written notice of the decision is given or mailed to the individual on
the matter for the following types of issues:
a. Zone changes;
b. Comprehensive Plan amendments;
c. All legislative matters.
CHAPTER 3 –  PUBLIC HEARINGS, NOTICE & APPEAL Page  3 -  23
2. 12 days after written notice of the decision is given or mailed to the individual on
all other types of land use or land division applications.
B. Notice is deemed given when:
1. It is mailed (as established by the date of the official postmark) to the last known
address of the party;
2. It is personally given to the party.
C. A party shall mean a person or organization perfecting status as a party as defined in
Section 11.030. Party status may be challenged on appeal by any party to the appeal, the
Planning Director, or the Court. Any challenge of party status shall be settled by the
Court as its first order of business in the appeal hearing.
D. Notice for appeal hearings shall be given to all parties perfecting status.
33.040 - STATEMENT OF APPEAL
A. A statement of appeal shall be on a form supplied by the Planning Director and shall
contain the following information:
1. How the Comprehensive Plan, Grant County Land Development Code, applicable
State law, or other evidence, was incorrectly interpreted or applied in the decision;
2. What information in the record of decision was pertinent to the decision, but was
not considered by the Review Body. This may include the Comprehensive Plan,
Grant County Land Development Code, applicable State law, or other evidence;
3. Each ground or reason for appeal must be separately numbered and explained,
and the appeal hearing will be strictly limited to the items specified in the
statement of appeal;
B. The grounds for the local or LUBA appeal must have been raised at the Review or
Hearing Body level with sufficient specificity to allow the Review or Hearing Body an
opportunity to respond to the issue.
C. The statement of appeal shall be accompanied by the following:
1. The required filing fee;
CHAPTER 3 –  PUBLIC HEARINGS, NOTICE & APPEAL Page  3 -  24
2. In cases involving an appeal on the record, the statement shall also be
accompanied by a deposit, in an amount established by the Planning Director, to
cover the estimated cost of producing a typewritten summary of the testimony in
the hearing;
3. In the event the deposit is insufficient to cover the cost of the preparation of the
typewritten summary, the Planning Director shall mail written notice to the
appellant of the balance due;
a. Within 10 days from the mailing of the notice of completion of the
summary, appellant shall tender to the Director the balance due for the
cost of the summary;
b. Failure to tender the balance is a jurisdictional defect and the appeal shall
be dismissed;
c. Any part of the deposit in excess of the actual cost of the summary shall
be returned to the appellant.
D. In the event more than one party files an appeal, the Planning Director shall require equal
deposits from each appellant. The final cost of the typewritten summary, shall be shared
equally by all appellants.
E. Failure to submit a statement of appeal in conformance with the requirements of this
Section shall be considered a jurisdictional defect, and the appeal shall be dismissed.
33.050 - EFFECT OF APPEAL
A. Failure to file an appeal within the specified time or in the manner prescribed in Sections
33.030 and 33.040 shall nullify the appeal and the decision shall be final.
B. The effect of an appeal shall be to stay or suspend the appealed action.
33.060 - STANDING TO APPEAL
To have standing to appeal a decision rendered under the procedures of this Code, persons or
parties must have participated, either orally or in writing, in the local review process, and must
have been granted standing under Section 31.100(B) of this Code b y the Presiding Officer at the
Public H earing.
CHAPTER 3 –  PUBLIC HEARINGS, NOTICE & APPEAL Page  3 -  25
33.070 - ACTION OF THE PLANNING DIRECTOR
Appeal from actions by Planning Director shall be to the Planning Commission and shall be
heard de novo by the Commission:
A. Within 14 days from the filing of the statement of appeal, the Planning Director shall
prepare a report of the action under appeal, and mail notice to the parties indicating the
report is available for inspection and/or copying;
B. The report shall consist of all materials, documents, and exhibits considered by the
Planning Director in taking the action, including the final action under appeal, if one
exists;
C. The Planning Director is authorized to charge a reasonable fee for the preparation and
copying of the report.
33.080 - ACTION OF THE HEARINGS OFFICER OR PLANNING COMMISSION
A. An appeal from an action by the Hearings Officer or Planning Commission shall be to the
County Court, and shall be confined to the record of the hearing. The record shall
include:
1. All materials, pleadings, memoranda, stipulations, motions, exhibits, and
documents submitted by any party to the action as evidence in the hearing;
2. All materials submitted by the Planning staff in the hearing;
3. The tape recording, if one exists, of the hearing;
4. A typewritten summary of the testimony given at the hearing. The typewritten
summary shall be prepared by the Planning Director or a designate;
5. The findings of fact entered by the Hearing Body.
B. Within 21 days of filing of the statement of appeal, the Planning Director shall cause the
record to be compiled, including the written summary of testimony, and mail notice to the
parties indicating the record is available for inspection and/or copying. The Planning
Director is authorized to charge a reasonable fee for paper or tape copying.
CHAPTER 3 –  PUBLIC HEARINGS, NOTICE & APPEAL Page  3 -  26
C. Any party wishing to challenge the composition or completeness of the record, or the
accuracy of the typewritten summary of the testimony, shall file written objections within
14 days from the date of the mailing of the notice of completion of record. In addition;
1. Objections to the accuracy of the summary of testimony shall be accompanied by
a verbatim transcript for the portion(s) of the hearing which supports each
challenged point;
2. Controversy concerning any of these matters shall be settled by the Court as its
second order of business at the appeal hearing, after questions about party status,
if any exist, are settled.
D. The parties to an appeal from any action by the Hearings Officer or Planning
Commission shall be allowed to present oral or written arguments concerning any ground
or reason for appeal specified in the statement of appeal, but no new matters or evidence
shall be submitted unless permitted pursuant to Section 33.080(E).
E. A party to an appeal from any action by the Hearings Officer or Planning Commission
may request permission to submit evidence not contained in the record for an appeal
when all of the following criteria are met:
1. The evidence was not reasonably available to the party at the time of the original
hearing, and the facts supporting this conclusion are documented by affidavit(s);
2. The evidence is substantially relevant to issues raised in the appeal. Evidence is
substantially relevant when, in the opinion of the County Court, it has special
value to prove relevant criteria, so that consideration of the new evidence is likely
to alter deliberations;
3. The evidence to be introduced was made available to all parties to the appeal at
least 20 days prior to the hearing, and there is no significant prejudice or
unfairness to another party. In addition:
a. If it becomes available within 10 days of the hearing, a continuance may
be requested by the proponent in order to meet the 20 day rule;
b. The  County  Court may grant a continuance so the new evidence will meet
the 20 day rule provided the continuance serves the public interest; and
CHAPTER 3 –  PUBLIC HEARINGS, NOTICE & APPEAL Page  3 -  27
c. If the applicant is the party requesting the privilege of introducing
evidence, a written waiver of the 150 day time limit specified in ORS
215.428 must be submitted to the County Court.
33.090 - ACTION OF THE COUNTY COURT
A. In addition to appeals created by other provisions in this Chapter, the County Court may
order its own review of a final action by a Review or Hearing Body. Review under these
circumstances shall be governed by the provisions of this Article including the creation of
the record as provided in this Article. A summary of testimony as required by Section
33.040(C) shall be prepared at the County's expense.
B. The County Court may affirm, reverse, or amend the decision under appeal, and may
impose additional or different conditions as may be necessary to carry out its decision.
The Court may also return the proceeding to the initial Review or Hearing Body for
additional consideration or action. The return shall contain specific instructions to the
initial Review or Hearing Body regarding the nature and scope of its further
consideration or action.
C. The County Court shall make written findings and conclusions as part of its written
decision. This document will constitute the final action of the County Court for appeal
and other purposes.
D. The County Court may cause supplemental or replacement findings and conclusions,
based on the record for the decision, to be prepared and signed after the original findings
and conclusions have been executed. When supplemental or replacement findings and
conclusions are prepared and signed, this document shall constitute the final action of the
County Court for appeal and other purposes in lieu of the original findings and
conclusions.
E. The  County  Court may open the record for clarification on a part of the record.
F. The County Court by its own motion only, may choose to hear any appeal de novo. The
decision to do so must be made within 10 days of receiving a statement of appeal.
G. An appeal of a decision of the County Court to the Land Use Board of Appeals (LUBA),
shall follow the procedures outlined in ORS 197.805 to 197.860.
CHAPTER 3 –  PUBLIC HEARINGS, NOTICE & APPEAL Page  3 -  28
33.100 - CONSOLIDATION OF APPEALS
In the event the final action for a single land use or land division is subject to concurrent appeals,
the County Court is authorized to consolidate the appeals into a single proceeding. In this event,
the Presiding Officer may modify the rules of procedure contained in this Chapter, or implement
new rules, which facilitate the merger of the appeal applications and the taking of evidence,
testimony and argument. The decision of the County Court or Appeal Board shall be documented
in a single set of findings of fact which shall act as the formal decision and final action on all of
the appeals for the purpose of further appeals.
33.110 - REMANDS - LAND USE BOARD OF APPEAL
In all cases, a copy of the opinion on remand shall be filed with the Planning Director to be
included in the permanent file.
33.120 - PARTICIPATION IN LAND USE BOARD OF APPEAL (LUBA)
The County shall not generally participate in appeals filed with the LUBA. The response to an
appeal shall be left to the party whose interests are, or may be, affected by a modification,
reversal, or remand upon appeal. Only in those cases that represent a significant issue to the
entire County, or establish a precedent that may be detrimental to County interests, will the
County Court and the County Legal Counsel consider participating in a response.
33.130 - REHEARING
Remanded land use applications shall be subject to the following rules regarding rehearing:
A. Only a party of record in the appeal to the LUBA appeal may initiate an application for
rehearing before the County Court. The County Court reserves the right to initiate a
rehearing by its own motion.
B. Participation in the rehearing shall be strictly limited to those persons or organizations
who were parties to the LUBA appeal. Therefore:
1. Notice of the rehearing required by Article 32 shall be given only to persons who
were parties to the LUBA appeal; and
2. Only parties to the LUBA appeal may present evidence, witnesses, testimony or
arguments in the rehearing. Grant County shall be considered a participant in the
rehearing even if it did not directly appear in the LUBA appeal.
CHAPTER 3 –  PUBLIC HEARINGS, NOTICE & APPEAL Page  3 -  29
C. The rehearing shall be initiated by an appeal application, subject to the normal appeal fee,
and on a form prescribed by the Planning Director. The appeal must be filed with the
Planning Director within 14 days from the date the decision is mailed to the participants
by LUBA.
D. The rehearing shall be strictly limited to the ground or grounds specified in the LUBA
decision for remand, and no evidence, testimony, or arguments shall be received on other
issues, even if such issues were matters within the scope of the Court's original action.
E. The rules otherwise governing applications, hearings, and appeals contained in Articles
30, 31, 32 and 33 shall control rehearings unless modified by the provisions of this
Section.
F. The party prevailing at the rehearing shall prepare the findings of fact necessary to
support the decision upon rehearing.