Public Right-of-Way Work Permit Application Addendum | HRC Ord. 367
Hood River County Public Works | 918 18th Street | Hood River, OR  97031 | Phone: (541) 386-2616 | Email: ROWpermits@co.hood-river.or.us
  Permit: Revised 12/16/19

Public Right-Of-Way
Work Permit Application Addendum

HOOD RIVER COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS

SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR SNOW REMOVAL WITHIN A PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY

1. These Special Provisions provide for the Permittee’s use of the section of road  (“Road Section”) located in Hood River
County, Oregon, as identified within Exhibit A attached hereto, for the purpose of snow removal, sanding, and related
winter maintenance activities (the “Work”).  Hood River County retains the responsibility for snow removal, sanding and
related winter maintenance upon county roads outside the Road Se ction covered by this Permit to the extent of current
policy and practices, which are subject to change with or without notice, and may not be extended to the Road Section.

2. This permit shall be effective and valid for the period specified in the Public Right-of-Way Permit Special Provisions  only
and for a maximum of one (1) year from t he date of issuance.  In the event there is any co ntradiction or discrepancy
between other terms or conditions of this permit, these Special Provisions for Snow Removal Within a Public Right-of-Way
shall prevail.

3. Expiration, surrender, suspension, revo cation or termination of this permit sha ll not relieve Permittee of any obligation
assigned, assumed or acquired under this permit regardless of the extent or quantity of Work to be performed.

4. Permittee shall have no responsibility, obligation or pe rmitted right to perform Work outside the Road Section.

5. Permittee expressly agrees and acknowledges that the terms, conditions and Special Provisions imposed by this Permit
are intended to ensure that the Work performed is done usin g the same standard of care as would normally be exercised
by Hood River County in the performance of similar work under similar conditions, that such standard of care is
reasonable and prudent for winter road maintenance, and that any Work performed by Permittee shall be in general
conformance with the Hood River County Public Works Snow Removal Policy therein governing such similar work.

6. Unless implicitly specified otherwis e, Permittee shall maintain at all times insurance coverage as set forth in the Public
Right-of-Way Permit Special Provisions  and a Certificate of Insurance evidenci ng protection of Hood River County by
being shown as an “Additional Named Insured” shall be required.

7. This permit provides for Permittee to perform Work described as snow removal within the Road Section but does not
require nor obligate Permittee to perform the Work; except to  the standards, terms, condit ions and Special Provisions
specified herein when Work is performed.  Permittee acknowledg es that issuance of this permit implies an intention to
perform the Work under certain conditions and in the event Permittee elects NOT to perform the Work agrees to contact
County Public Works at least twelve (12) hours in advance  of any anticipated storm event that would otherwise initiate
the Work to be performed.

8. Permittee shall submit a written Snow Removal Operation Plan for review and approval prior to a permit being issued.
The plan shall detail how snow removal from the Road Sect ion will be accomplished in order to meet the Permittee’s
needs while not increasing the risk of damage, accident, or injury to persons or property.  Generally, items to be
incorporated into the plan include the anticipated conditions which shall trigger execution of the Work, the types of
equipment to be used, the timing and frequency of operations , identifying vehicle pull-out or turnaround locations, and
safety measures to be implemented.  Safety measures s hall include but are not limited to personnel and equipment
visibility and/or lighting, traffic control measures to be ta ken and seasonal warning signs to be displayed or temporarily
installed.

9. Permittee shall ensure that any equipme nt used to perform the Work shall be of  a size and type that will not cause
damage to the Road Section or adjacent public roadways.  Acceptable snow removal equipment may include light and
heavy truck mounted plows, road graders and snow blowers.  The use of tracked equipment (dozers, etc.) shall be strictly
prohibited.  Heavy equipment front-end loaders with plows s hall be permitted on a case-by-case basis only and subject to
identification in and approval through the Snow Removal Operation Plan.

10. Permittee shall ensure all Work performed complies with the following guidelines:

a. All equipment used shall be equipped with flashing beac ons and signage sufficient to reasonably warn road users of
Permittee’s snow removal and winter maintenance activities.

b. All Work shall be performed in a mann er that ensures reasonably safe winter use of the Road Section by all road
users, including but not limited to the general public.

Public Right-of-Way Work Permit Application Addendum | HRC Ord. 367
Hood River County Public Works | 918 18th Street | Hood River, OR  97031 | Phone: (541) 386-2616 | Email: ROWpermits@co.hood-river.or.us
  Permit: Revised 12/16/19

c. All Work shall be performed in a manner that reas onably preserves and protects the Road Section and its
appurtenances and prevents erosion or other forms of damage from occurring al ong the roadway shoulders, ditches,
or to adjacent streams, properties and other areas.

d. If Permittee performs snow removal Work authorized under this permit, snow shall be removed in a manner that
accommodates at least twenty-two (22) feet of total usabl e width of the paved traveled ways, including but not limited
to additional locations as identified in the approved Snow  Removal Operation Plan.  Pe rmittee shall perform Work to
re-shape over-width plowing as necessary to reasonably define the total usable travel way.

e. Permittee shall make reasonable efforts to cast snow over  the edge of fill slopes and off the roadway shoulders
whenever reasonably practicable but s hall not cast or deposit snow into adj acent stream channels.  This permit
strictly prohibits Permittee to cast snow outside the Road Section or onto private property.

f. Permittee shall construct and maintain regular drainage relief  areas in roadside snow berms as necessary in order to
prevent erosion of the roadway and its shoulders.

g. Permittee shall maintain all roadside drainage ditches and culverts within the Road Section during the performance of
Work and upon completion of the Work to ensure they perform and function as originally intended, under normal
conditions, and have not been negatively impacted by the Wo rk.  Permittee shall not perform Work in a manner that
negatively impacts culvert inlets or outlets, or in a ma nner which may result in snow being compacted in common
drainage locations.

h. If Permittee elects to apply sand to the roadway, all sa nd material shall be 1/4” - #10 gradation crushed rock or
volcanic cinders.  The type of sand material shall be identified in the approved Snow Removal Operation Plan.  Any
deviation from the approved material shall be submitted to County Public Works for review and approval prior to
placement and may require a sample submittal.

i. Any sanding equipment used shall be capable of apply ing a uniform distribution of sand across the travel ways.

j. Permittee shall remove any intruding windfalls, debris or slid e material for the full width of the roadway and dispose of
said material at Permittee’s expense.  Materials shall not  be disposed of in drainage areas or left alongside the
roadway within the Road Section.  All fallen timber sh all be cut at least 6 feet be yond the edge of the roadway
whenever possible.

11. Permittee shall promptly notify County Public Works of any damage caused to a roadway, bridges or other appurtenances
under the jurisdiction of Hood River County, whether within  the specified Road Section or not, which is caused by the
Permittee’s Work performed under this permit.

12. Upon notice by County Public Works, Permittee shall make immediate plans to repair any such damage to any roadways,
bridges or other appurtenances under the jurisdiction of Hood River County, whether within the specified Road Section or
not, if caused by the Permittee’s Work performed under this permit.  Permittee further agrees to cause such repairs at
Permittee’s sole expense, and to the sati sfaction of and in accordance with the time period allotted and any applicable
standards or specifications as determined by County Public Works.

13. Upon the latter of the conclusion of the snow removal season or the expiration of this permit, or when deemed necessary
by County Public Works, the Permittee shall cause the surface of the Road Section to be cleaned free of debris, including
but not limited to any sand or other materials placed on the roadway by Permittee as authorized under this permit.
Cleaning of the Road Section shall be performed in a manner as to ensure the sand or other material is not swept, graded
or otherwise deposited into roadside ditches, waterways or onto private property.