CHAPTE
R 1025
System Development Charges

1025.01 Purpose; A
uthority.
1025.02 System Development Charges Established.
1025.03 Scope and Exemptions.
1025.04 Definitions.
1025.05 Methodology.
1025.06 Independent Engineering Evaluation.
1025.07 Revenue Purposes and Restrictions.
1025.08 Capital Improvements Plan.
1025.09 Payment of Charges by Developers.
1025.10 Installment Payment Option for Owners.
1025.11 Delinquent Charges.
1025.12 Credits.
1025.13 Appeals.
1025.14 Penalty.
1025.15 Injunctive Relief.
1025.16 Construction.
1025.17 Severability.
1025.18 Effective Date.

CROSS REFERENCES

Finance Depart
ment - see ADM. Ch. 228
Public Works Department - see ADM. Ch. 232
Public works operations - see S.U. & P.S. Ch. 1020
County roads standards and specifications - see S.U. & P.S. 1020.02,
1020.03, Ch. 1024
Construction at Airport - see S.U. & P.S. 1062.59; Jackson County
Comprehensive Plan see P. & Z. Ch. 1226
South Medford Interchange B Surcharge to the Street System Development
Charge (SurSDC) - See S.U. & P.S. Ch. 1080

1025.01 PURPOSE; AUTHORITY.

The purpose of system development charges is to require a portion of the cost of capital
improvements expended by the County to be paid by developments that create increased
need for and demands on capital improvements. This chapter is authorized by ORS
223.297 to 223.314.

(Ord. 91-5. Passed 1-16-91.)
1025.03 System Development Charges 16

1025.02 SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGES ESTABLISHED.

System development charges shall be established in accordance with the procedures set
forth in this chapter. Implementing ordinances or resolutions to establish methodology
and fees shall state the area or areas within the County where the system development
charges shall be imposed according to that methodology.

(Ord. 91-5. Passed 1-16-91.)

1025.03 SCOPE AND EXEMPTIONS.

(a) The system development charges imposed pursuant to this chapter are incurred as a
result of development and are therefore separate from  and in addition to any applicable
tax, assessment, charge, fee or payment otherwise provided by law, imposed as a
condition of ownership, imposed as a condition of development, or voluntarily
contributed.

(b) Dwelling units, structures and uses established, existing and approved on or before
the effective date of this chapter will not be required to pay a system development charge
to the extent of the dwelling unit, structure or use that then legally exists, or is approved,
and to the extent of the developed area of land as constituted on that date.

(c) Alteration, addition, replacement or change in use that does not add another
dwelling or otherwise increase the parcels  or structures potential use of the park and
recreation system or transportation system according to this chapter shall not pay a
system development charge for the park and recreation system or transportation system.
Development projects required solely to comply with governmental regulations to protect
the public health, safety and welfare, such as installation of pollution control equipment,
shall not be deemed to increase use of the park and recreation system or transportation
system.

(d) Each structure, use or building addition established after the effective date of this
chapter shall pay a syste m development charge only once for a given type of capital
improvement.

(e) An approved project for which permits expire shall be subject to system
development charges as is all other new development.

(Ord. 91-5. Passed 1-16-91; Ord. 2000-4. Passed 3-15-00.)
17 System Development Charges 1025.04

1025.04 DEFINITIONS.

As used in this chapter:

(a) Approved - means a development that is allowed pursuant to a building permit
application submitted prior to the effective date of this chapter. For a period of one year
after the effective date of this chapter an approved project shall also include
developments resulting from land use applications for conditional use permits, mobile
home park permits, destination resort approvals and comm ercial and industrial site plans
submitted before the effective date of this chapter.

(b) Board - means the Jackson County Board of Commissioners.

(c) Capacity - means the limits of performance or service levels provided by capital
facilities or assets.

(d) Capital Improvements - means facilities or assets used for transportation or storm
drainage and flood control or parks and recreation, but not including the cost of operation
or routine maintenance of capital improvements. These facilities or assets include, but are
not limited to:  acquisition of rights-of -way; acquisition of land; alteration (including
closure) of access points that improve road capacity; hard-surfacing of unpaved roads or
road shoulders; bridge construction (new bridges and replacement or rehabilitation);
reconstructing, placing or adding depth to road base; installation and modification of
traffic signals; adding travel or turn lanes; widening lanes; widening road shoulders or
bikeways; improving the ability of bridges, culverts, roadside ditches and storm drains to
carry storm runoff or pass flood waters; construction or expansion of parks and recreation
facilities; and landscaping and tree planting.

(e) Development - means construction of a building or physical change in a structure
that requires a building permit.

(f) Dwelling - means a building or portion thereof, designed or used for human
occupancy as a residence for one or more persons, not including vehicles, travel trailers
or recreational/camping vehicles.

(g) Improvement Fee - means a fee for costs associated with capital improvements to be
constructed after the date the fee is paid.

(h) Increase in Capaci ty or Capacity -Increasing - means an increase in system capacity
that occurs when a capital improvement increases the level of performance or service
provided by existing facilities or assets, or removes limits on the use of facilities or
assets, or provides new facilities or assets.
1025.04 System Development Charges 18

(i) Land Area - means the area of a unit of land as measured by projection of the parcel
boundaries upon a horizontal plane with the exception of a portion of the unit of land
within a recorded right of way or easement subject to a servitude for a public street or
scenic or preservation purpose.

(j) Owner - means the owner of record title or the purchaser under a recorded sales
agreement, and other persons having an interest of record in the described real property.

(k) Qualified Public I mprovement - means capital improvements on arterial and
collector roads or in the parks and recreation system that are identified in the capital
improvements plan adopted pursuant to this chapter.

(l) Reimbursement Fee - means a fee for actual costs associated with capital
improvements already constructed or under construction when the fee is collected.

(m) Routine Maintenance  - means maintenance customarily performed by County
forces, as distinct from extraordinary maintenance that is contracted out because the
County does not have sufficient equipment or expertise readily available to perform the
work.

(n) System Development Charge - means a reimbursement fee, an improvement fee, or
a combination thereof, paid or required at the time of increased usage of a capital
improvement, at the time of issuance of a development permit or building permit, or at
the time of connection to the capital improvement. "System development charge" does
not include fees assessed or collected as part of a local improvement district or a charge
in lieu of a local improvement district assessment, or the cost of  complying with
requirements or conditions imposed by a land use decision.

(o) Trip Share Factor - means the figure which represents the trip generation rate of a
use or development adjusted to remove passby trips or adjusted for other relevant factors
determined in the methodology for system development charges for road capacity.

(p) Under Construction - means, with reference to a capital improvement, the time at
which any contract to build or obtain the capital improvement becomes effective.

(q) Unit of Land  - means a lot, parcel, block or other tract of land that is occupied or
may be occupied by a structure or structures or other use, and that includes the yards and
other open spaces required under the Jackson County Land Development Ordinance, but
excludes public rights of way.

(r) Unused Capacity  - means the capacity not used by existing developments or the
existing population of an area and therefore available for use by new development.
19 System Development Charges 1025.06

(s) Wholly Contiguous - means property along the frontage or perimeter boundaries of a
site; adjacent to a unit of land.

(Ord. 91-5. Passed 1-16-91; Ord. 2000-4. Passed 3-15-00.)

1025.05 METHODOLOGY.

(a) A methodology to establish reimbursement fees shall consider the actual cost of
existing facilities, prior contributions by existing users, the value of unused capacity,
rate-making principles employed to finance publicly owned capital improvements, and
other relevant factors identified and documented in the ordinance or resolution
establishing the methodology and fees. The methodology shall promote the objective that
future systems users shall contribute no more than an equitable share to the actual cost of
existing facilities.

(b) A methodology to establish an improvement fee shall consider the cost of projected
capital improvements needed to increase the capacity of the systems to which the fee is
related.

(c) A methodology to establish either an improvement fee or a reimbursement fee, or
both, shall be containe d in a resolution adopted by the Board, and available for public
inspection.

(d) A legal action challenging a methodology adopted by the Board pursuant to this
section shall not be filed later than sixty days after the adoption of the methodology.

(e) System development charges shall also include an additional amount to defray
administrative costs, and may include costs of planning for capital improvements funded
by system development charges.

(f) Rounding off to two places beyond the decimal point or to the nearest penny (one-
hundredth of a dollar) shall be allowed at every step of any calculation concerning system
development charges. The differences in fees that may result from such rounding off are
minimal, and therefore will not impair the equitable application of this chapter.

(Ord. 91-5. Passed 1-16-91.)

1025.06 INDEPENDENT ENGINEERING EVALUATION.

(a) An applicant or an agency who disagrees with the amount of road-related system
development charges may arrange at its own expense for independent evaluation,
including actual counts of vehicle trips and trip ends, by a professional traffic engineer
registered to practice in the State of Oregon.
1025.07 System Development Charges 20

(b) A letter stating the intention to have an independent engineering evaluation
completed within eighteen months shall be accompanied by an appropriate engineering
review fee and evidence of the applicant's system development charge placed on deposit
with the Finance Director. Failure to submit a complete report to the County within
eighteen months shall mean the amount on deposit will be the final system development
charge for that use.

(c) Within thirty days of receiving the independent engineer 's report, the Roads and
Parks Director shall review the adequacy of  the independent engineer's evaluation. If the
report is found adequate and the result of the independent evaluation differs from the
charge on deposit, the applicant shall either:

(1) Be required to pay the amount on deposit plus any additional system
development charge (not including interest) if the trip share factor is higher; or

(2) Receive a refund from the amount on deposit (not including interest) if the trip
share factor is lower.

(d) Disputed items in the independent engineer's evaluation or the Roads and Parks
Director's review of the report may be appealed under the procedures in this chapter.

(Ord. 91-5. Passed 1-16-91; Ord. 2003-4. Passed 1-22-03; Ord. 2007-2. Passed 1-31-07.)

1025.07 REVENUE PURPOSES AND RESTRICTIONS.

(a) System development charges for road, street and highway projects and related storm
drainage and flood control measures shall be applied to costs of capacity increasing
capital improvements associated with the public road system in the County, including
expenditures relating to repayment of indebtedness.

(b) A capital improvement being funded wholly or in part from system development
charge revenues shall be included in the capital improvement plan(s) adopted by the
Board.

(c) Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) hereof, system development charge
revenues may be expended on the direct costs of complying with the provisions of this
chapter, and ordinances or resolutions adopted pursuant to this chapter, including the
actual costs of developing system development charge methodologies, developin g capital
improvement plans, and providing an annual accounting of system development charge
expenditures.

(d) System development charges shall be earmarked for expenditure in accordance with
this section, and deposited in accounts designated for such moneys. That portion of the
system development charges (plus interest) paid on account of roads, streets and
highways shall be used for no purpose other than those set forth in this chapter.
21 System Development Charges 1025.08

(e) The County Administrator shall provide the Board with an annual accounting for
each fiscal year based on first-in, first-out treatment of costs related to system
development charges. The annual accounting shall show the total amount of system
development charge revenues accumulated for each type of facility and the projects
funded by system development charges.

(f) System development charges shall not be expended for costs associated with the
construction of administrative office facilities, but this shall not prohibit use of system
development charges for administration of this chapter, nor overhead charges to capital
projects.

(g) System development charges shall not be expended for operation or routine
maintenance of capital improvements.

(h) System development charges for parks and recreation facilities and park and open
space land shall be applied to costs of capacity increasing capital improvements
associated with the park and recreation system in Jackson County, including expenditures
relating to repayment of indebtedness.

(Ord. 91-5. Passed 1-16-91; Ord. 2000-4. Passed 3-15-00.)

1025.08 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN.

Prior to adopting any improvement fee and prior to expending any reimbursement fee
revenues, the Board shall adopt a Capital Improvement Plan or Plans, which may include,
but not be limited to, a Road System Plan coordinated with the Jackson County
Comprehensive Plan that:

(a) Describes the types of capital improvements that may be funded with system
development charge revenues;

(b) Lists the estimated cost for each type of capital outlay by fiscal year;

(c) Indicates the timing of specific capital improvement projects at least one fiscal year
in advance; and

(d) Describes the process for modifying the plan and determining capital project
priorities.

(Ord. 91-5. Passed 1-16-91.)
1025.10 System Development Charges 22

1025.09 PAYMENT OF CHARGES BY DEVELOPERS.

(a) System development charges are payable by developers prior to issuance of permits
to build or put in place any of the following:

(1) Additional dwelling units on individual units of land;

(2) New or added mobile home spaces in a mobile home park; or

(3) New construction or additions of more than 500 square feet of nonresidential
structures.

(b) The Finance Director shall receive payment of the system development charge from
the developer of the unit of land prior to issuance of a permit that allows development.

(c) If development begins without an appropriate permit, the system development
charge is immediately payable upon the earliest date that a permit was required.

(d) When system development charges are due and unpaid, the Development Services
Director shall not issue a building permit nor other permit that allows development, until
the charges have been paid in full, or until an application for installment payments has
been approved.

(Ord. 91-5. Passed 1-16-91; Ord. 2003-4. Passed 1-22-03; Ord. 2007-2. Passed 1-31-07.)

1025.10 INSTALLMENT PAYMENT OPTION FOR OWNERS.

(a) When a system development charge is due and payable, the owner of land subject to
the development charge may apply for payment in semi-annual installments. The
installments shall include interest on the unpaid balance and charges to defray the actual
administrative cost of providing the installment payment option. Installment payments
may be distributed according to a schedule adopted by resolution of the Board, provided
that all charges shall be paid in full upon sale of the property.

(b) An applicant for installment payments shall have the burden of demonstrating the
applicant's authority as owner to assent to the imposition of a lien on the land and that the
interest of the applicant is adequate to secure payment.

(c) The Finance Director shall provide application forms for installment payments,
which shall include a waiver of all rights to contest the validity of the lien, except for the
correction of computational errors.
23 System Development Charges 1025.12

(d) When the installment payment option is requested, the Development Services
Director shall report to the Finance Director the amount of the system development
charge owing, the name of the developer, the name of the owner, and the description of
the parcel. The Finance Director shall prepare the lien agreement, including the dates on
which payments are due, and the additional amount for interest and the actual
administrative costs on installment payments.

(Ord. 91-5. Passed 1-16-91; Ord. 2003-4. Passed 1-22-03; Ord. 2007-2. Passed 1-31-07.)

1025.11 DELINQUENT CHARGES.

(a) When, for any reason, an installment payment or system development charge has not
been paid, the Finance-Director shall:

(1) Prepare a report and notice to the owner concerning the delinquent charges;

(2) Describe the development to which the charges are attributable; and

(3) Note the date the charges were due.

(b) The County Administrator may accept, reject or modify the determination of the
Finance Director as set forth in the report. The County Administrator may direct the
Finance Director to docket any additional unpaid and uncollected charges in the lien
docket as may be necessary. Upon completion of the docketing, the County shall have a
lien against the described land for the full amount of the unpaid charge, together with
interest and the County's actual cost of publishing or serving notice.

(Ord. 91-5. Passed 1-16-91.)

1025.12 CREDITS.

(a) Credit for a qualified public improvement associated with a new development shall
be given as an offset to charges due, provided the credit is applied for with payment of an
appropriate engineering review fee prior to the date when a system development charge is
due and payable. If a qualified public improvement is located partially on and partially
off the parcel that is the subject of the development approval, the credit shall be given
only for the actual cost of the portion of the improvement not located on to the property
as determined by the Roads and Parks Director. (Ord. 2003- 4. Passed 1-22-03; Ord.
2007-2. Passed 1-31-07.)
1025.13 System Development Charges 24

(b) Credit for a qualified public improvement may equal, but not exceed, the system
development charge due from a development, even if the actual cost of the capital
improvement as documented by the developer exceeds the applicable system
development charge.

(c) Credit for a qualified public improvement shall not be transferable from one
development to another, except upon the finding of the Roads and Parks Director that a
reasonable relationship exists between the improvement and the development t o which
credit is transferred.

(d) Credit for a qualified public improvement shall not be transferable from one type of
capital improvement to another, except that storm drains and flood control measures
within the right of way that are an integral part of road or bridge construction projects are
not a separate type of capital improvement for the purposes of this section.

(e) Credit for capital improvements will be allowed only on building permits issued
within three years after completion and acceptance of the capital improvements.

(Ord. 91-5. Passed 1-16-91; Ord. 2003-4. Passed 1-22-03; Ord. 2007-2. Passed 1-31-07.)

1025.13 APPEALS.

(a) Any person aggrieved by a decision required or permitted to be made by County
officials pursuant to this chapter or a person challenging the propriety of an expenditure
of system development charge revenues may appeal the decision or the expenditure by
filing a written  request (including an appropriate appeal fee) with the County
Administrator describing with particularity the decision or the expenditure from which
the person appeals.

(b) An appeal of an expenditure must be filed within two years of the date of the alleged
improper expenditure. If the Board determines that there has been an improper
expenditure of system development  charge revenues, the Board shall direct that a sum
equal to the misspent amount be deposited, within one year, to the credit of the account or
fund from which it was spent.

(c) Appeals of other decisions must be filed within ten working days of the date of the
decision. If an error in calculating a fee is alleged, the County Administrator shall
confirm the amount due. If the County Administrator determines there has been an error
in calculation of the fee, the County Administrator shall correct the error and notify the
appellant and other County officials and refund the amount owing to the person who paid
the fee. There shall be no refunds for failure to claim credit, nor failure to appeal in a
timely manner.
25 System Development Charges 1025.17

(d) If no error in calculating the fee is found, the County Administrator shall consider
whether the decision of any County official or an expenditure is in accordance with
applicable ordinances or resolutions and the provisions of ORS 223.297 to 223.314 and
may affirm, modify or overrule the decisions.

(e) The decision of the County Administrator may be appealed by a person with
standing to the Board or a Hearings Officer designated by the Board.

(f) Refunds of system development charge revenues shall not result from errors in the
expenditure of earmarked funds, because errors in expenditure of system development
charges are a separate and distinct issue from fee amounts due from developers.

(Ord. 91-5. Passed 1-16-91.)

1025.14 PENALTY.

Violation of this chapter is punishable by a fine not to exceed $500 plus the amount of
the system development charge and all applicable interest and administrative costs, or
revocation of access to roads under Jackson County jurisdiction, or both.

(Ord. 91-5. Passed 1-16-91.)

1025.15 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.

Jackson County may seek injunctive relief or other appropriate civil remedy for any
violation of this chapter.

(Ord. 91-5. Passed 1-16-91.)

1025.16 CONSTRUCTION.

The rules of statutory construction contained in ORS Chapter 174 are adopted and by this
reference made a part of this chapter.

(Ord. 91-5. Passed 1-16-91.)

1025.17 SEVERABILITY.

The invalidity of a section or subsection of this chapter shall not affect the validity of the
remaining sections or subsections.

(Ord. 91-5. Passed 1-16-91.)
1025.18 System Development Charges 26

1025.18 EFFECTIVE DATE.

(a) This chapter shall become effective on July 1, 1991.

(b) The amendments made by Ordinance No. 2000-4 shall become effective on July 1,
2000.

(Ord. 91-5. Passed 1-16-91; Ord. 2000-4. Passed 3-15-00.)