CODIFIED ORDINANCES
of
JACKSON COUNTY,
OREGON

Codif
ied through
Ordinance No. 2023-7

2024 Replacement

CERTIFICATION

We, Danny Jordan, County Administrator, and Joel Benton, County Counsel, of Jackson
County, Oregon, hereby certify that, except as otherwise provided herein, the general and
permanent legislation of Jackson County, Oregon, as codified, edited and published
herewith, is correctly set forth and constitutes the Codified Ordinances of Jackson
County, Oregon, 2000, complete to December 27, 2023.

*Notwithstanding the above certification, the Codified Ordinances of Jackson County,
Oregon, 2000 as codified, edited and published herein does not include general and
permanent legislation enacted as an initiative measure pursuant to Chapter 7, Section 28
of the Home Rule Charter of Jackson County, Oregon.

     /S/ Danny Jordan
  Danny Jordan, County Administrator

      /S/ Joel Benton
  Joel Benton, County Counsel

CONTENTS

Preliminary Unit

General Index

Comparative Section Table

Home Rule Charter

CODIFIED ORDINANCES OF JACKSON COUNTY, OREGON
 Part Two - Administration Code
 Part Four - Traffic Code
 Part Six - General Offenses Code
 Part Eight - Business Regulation and Taxation Code
 Part Ten - Streets, Utilities and Public Services Code
 Part Twelve - Planning and Zoning Code
 Part Fourteen - Building and Housing Code
 Part Sixteen - Fire Prevention Code
 Part Eighteen - Health and Sanitation Code

EDITOR'S NOTE

The numbering system used in these Codified Ordinances works as follows:

The ordinances are divided into Parts, such as “Part 2, Administrative Code” or “Part 4,
Traffic Code.”  Each Part covers a broad general topic.  Within each Part, the
ordinances are further broken down to Chapters, then to Sections.

The Part and Chapter numbers appear left of the decimal (with Part first, then two digits
for Chapter); the section numbers appear to the right of the decimal.  For example, the
number 238.02 indicates that the Part number is 2, the Chapter number is 38, and the
Section number is .02 as another example, 1048.01 indicates that the Part number is 10,
the Chapter number is 48 (or the 48th chapter within code 10) and the Section number is
.01.

Section histories trace the origin of the law contained in the section.  The history
references the original ordinance, resolution or order number and its passage date.  For
example, “(Ord. 89-11. Passed 10-4-89.)” means that the provisions of that section were
adopted by the Board of Commissioners by Ordinance No. 89-11 on 10-4-89.  As
another example, “(E.Ord. 97-13. Passed 4-30-97; P.Ord. 97-14. Passed 5-14-97.)” means
that the provisions of that section were adopted by the Board of Commissioners by
Emergency Ordinance No. 97-13 on 4-30-97 and by Permanent Ordinance No. 97-14 on
5-14-97.).   Sections and subsections without histories, or with the words "Adopting
Ordinance" at the end thereof, mean that those sections were adopted by the Adopting
Ordinance that first enacted these Codified Ordinances.

The Comparative Section Table is included to show the disposition of every ordinance,
resolution and order included in these Codified Ordinances. It indicates into which
section or sections a given ordinance, resolution or order was codified.

The Jackson County Land Development Ordinance is codified as a separate document
and is not included in these Codified Ordinances of Jackson County.