CHAPTER 1228
Bear Creek Greenway Plan

1228.01 Adoption.

1228.02 Purpose.
1228.03 Definitions.
1228.04 Intended Uses.
1228.05 Authority; Closure of Greenway; Use Limitations.
1228.06 Regulations; Prohibitions
1228.07 Severability.
1228.08 Jurisdiction; Enforcement.
1228.09 Violations; Penalty.

CROSS REFERENCES:

Count
y parks and recreation areas generally - see ORS 275.320, 275.330, 275.370;
S.U. & P.S. Ch. 1064
Development of recreational use of lands by Jackson County; application for State
funds - see ORS 390.250
Use of funds to acquire land interests; conditions of grants - see ORS 390.255
Application of Willamette River Greenway laws; restriction on condemnation to
acquire lands - see ORS 390.260
County Fairgrounds and Exposition Park - see S.U. & P.S. Ch. 1066
Comprehensive Plan - see P. & Z. Ch. 1226

1228.01 ADOPTION.

The Bear Creek Greenway Plan, developed by the Roads and Parks Department and
providing management policies and guidelines for the management and preservation of
the Bear Creek Greenway, is hereby adopted.

The Bear Creek Greenway Plan shall serve as a primary background and support
document to the Natural and Historic Resources Element of the Jackson County
Comprehensive Plan.

(Order 487-82. Passed 12-1-82; Ord. 2003 -4. Passed 1-22-03; Ord. 2007-2. Passed 1-31-
07.)
21 Bear Creek Greenway Plan 1228.03

1228.02 PURPOSE.

These Rules are promulgated by the Jackson County Board of Commissioners to
establish common enforceable regulation of activities throughout the Bear Creek
Greenway Corridor. The provisions of this Chapter, unless agreed otherwise, are not
intended to preempt any other local government law, ordinance, rule, or regulation, or
any property transaction, easement, covenants or similar agreement between any local
government and those adjacent landowners with whom those agreements were made.

(Ord. 99-41. Passed 11-10-99.)

1228.03 DEFINITIONS.

For the purposes of Sections 1228.02 to 1228.09, unless the context requires otherwise,
the following definitions apply:

(a) Camp - means to set up, occupy, or to remain in or at a campsite.

(b) Campsite - means any place where any bedding, sleeping bag or other material used
for bedding purposes, or any stove or fire, is placed, established or maintained for the
purpose of maintaining a temporary place to live, whether or not such place incor porates
the use of any tent, box, lean-to, shack or any other struc ture, or any vehicle or part
thereof.

(c) Bear Creek Greenway Corridor (Greenway) - means that publicly -owned 20- mile
corridor of parks, trails, and adjacent land and waters that is located running north and
south and includes sections of Bear Creek between North Mountain Avenue in the City of
Ashland to Seven Oaks Interchange in the City of Central Point.

(d) Bicycle - has the meaning given that term in ORS 801.150.

(e) Destructive Device - means any device with an explosive, incendiary or poison gas
component, including but not limited to a bomb, grenade, rocket having a propellant
charge of more than four ounces, missile having an explosive or incendiary charge of
more than one-quarter ounce, mine, or any combination of parts either designed or
intended for use in converting any device into any destructive device described in this
paragraph and from which a destructive device may be readily assembled.

(f) Dwell - means to regularly or intermittently remain for such a period of time at or
near a particular location, premises or area so as to create a circumstance normally or
reasonably associated with inhabiting, living, or assuming a possessory interest in such
area.

(g) Firearm - has the meaning given that term in ORS 166.210.
1228.03 Bear Creek Greenway Plan 22

(h) Fireworks has the meaning given that term in ORS 480.110.

(i) Greenway Authority  - means a unit of local government, its designees, or its
employees, who have lawful control of regulating use of the Greenway by nature of
jurisdiction, ownership, tenancy, or official position.

(j) Horse, - in addition to its ordinary meaning includes mules, donkeys and other
<skip> animals.

(k) Keeper - means a person who owns, possesses, controls or otherwise has charge of a
companion animal, as that term is defined in ORS 164.055(2) (a).

(l) Livestock - means equines, cattle, sheep, goats, llamas, alpacas and swine.

(m) Occupy or Occupancy  - means the purpose for which a premises or structure, or
parts thereof, is used or intended to be used.  The definition of AOccupy@ is not limited to
human or  animal inhabitation and can include the improvement, development, or the
placement of a structure or building on a premises, or any condition thereof.

(n) Open to the Public - means premises that, by their physical nature, function, custom,
usage, notice or lack of notice, or other circumstances at the time, would cause a
reasonable person to believe that no permission to enter or remain is required.

(o) Possess - has the meaning given that term in ORS 161.015.

(p) Premises - includes any real property, facility, structure, shelter or building whether
privately or publicly owned.

(q) Skate or Skating - means roller skating, skate boarding or roller blading, or
otherwise the use or application of a similar contrivance propelled exclusively by human
power.

(r) Weapon - means any instrument, article or substance specifically designed for and
presently capable of causing death or serious physical injury.  A weapon includes any
knife having a blade that projects or swings into position by force of a spring or by
centrifugal force and commonly known as a switchblade knife, any dirk, dagger, ice pick,
slingshot, metal knuckles, or any similar instrument by the use of which injury could be
inflicted upon the person or property of any other person.  A A deadly@ weapon has the
meaning given that term in ORS 161.015(2).

(Ord. 99-41. Passed 11-10-99.)
23 Bear Creek Greenway Plan 1228.05

1228.04 INTENDED USES.

The Greenway is intended for multiple use for recreational and non- motorized
transportation activities.  None of the provisions of the Bear Creek Greenway Ordinance
relieves the pedestrian or relieves the cyclist, skater, or equestrian from the duty to
exercise due care concerning other users of the Greenway or adjacent land owners.

(a) All Greenway users should maintain their own common or standard lane of travel
without impeding travel of other users.

(b) Bicyclists and skaters yield to all other trail users, and hikers yield to equestrians.

(c) Unless otherwise marked, Greenway users are permitted only on paths or paved
trails specifically designed for such use.

(d) Companion animals are allowed if on a leash no longer than six feet and in strict
control of its keeper.  Keeper shall remove the animal’s waste.

(e) All users are expected to observe and obey all Oregon State and Greenway traffic,
as well as informational, warning, and closure signs.

(f) All persons within the Greenway will be held responsible for any damage they
cause.  Parents or guardians will be held responsible for the damage caused by their
children under the age of 18 years old, whether or not the parent or guardian is present.

(Ord. 99-41. Passed 11-10-99.)

1228.05 AUTHORITY; CLOSURE OF GREENWAY; USE LIMITATIONS.

(a) The Greenway Authority is hereby authorized to establish and post regulations
governing the use of the Greenway which are not inconsistent with regulations contained
in Jackson County Code Sections 1228.02 to 1228.09 and which promote public health
and safety and the preservation of property.

(b) The Greenway Authority is hereby authorized to close to public use the Greenway
corridor or any portion thereof, restrict the times when the same shall be open to such use
and limit or prohibit any recreational use whenever such action is necessary to protect the
health or safety of the public or the safety of the Greenway or its facilities. Causes for
Greenway closure or limitations on Greenway use include, but are not limited to,
scheduled public events, fire hazard, dangerous weather or water conditions, sanitary
protection of the watershed, park construction or repairs, conservation of fish and
wildlife, unsafe or overcrowded shoreline, ramp, parking or road conditions, the
prevention of damage to the Greenway or any of its facilities or any dangerous, unsafe or
unhealthful condition.
1228.06 Bear Creek Greenway Plan 24

(c) Unless otherwise posted, Greenway closure shall occur between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 6:00 a.m. except as follows:

(1) Pedestrians crossing the Greenway on a paved section of the path;

(2) Participants or spectators of an athletic contest or approved public event in
Greenway areas;

(3) Persons attending a scheduled event in a Greenway building designated for
community recreation or instruction; or

(4) Government employees during the course of official activities.

(d) The Greenway Authority shall have the authority to eject from the Greenway any
person acting in violation of regulations contained in Sections 1228.02 to 1228.09.

(Ord. 99-41. Passed 11-10-99.)

1228.06 REGULATIONS; PROHIBITIONS.

All regulations of the Greenway shall apply to and be in full force and effect within the
Greenway area unless otherwise specifically authorized by Sections 1228.02 to 1228.09
or by declaration of the Greenway Authority or local unit of government independent of
each other as a representative of each applicable jurisdictional boundary affected by the
Greenway.

(a) Closure - No person shall enter the Greenway or area which has been closed if
notice of prohibited entry has been posted.

(b) Basic Speed Rule:

(1) A person commits a violation of the basic speed rule if the person drives
bicycles, skates or rides a horse upon the Greenway at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent, having due regard to all the following:

A. The traffic.
B. The surface and width of the pathway.
C. The hazard at intersections.
D. Weather.
E. Visibility.
F. Any other conditions then existing.
25 Bear Creek Greenway Plan 1228.06

(2) In no case shall a person drive a bicycle, skate or ride a horse in speeds in
excess of fifteen (15) miles per hour, unless otherwise posted.

(c) Obstruction of the Right of Way - No person, unless specifically authorized, shall:

(1) Stand, gather with others upon any street, street crossing, sidewalk, trail or area
within the Greenway in a manner that obstructs free passage of users of the
Greenway; or

(2) Place, cause to be placed, or permit to remain on any street, sidewalk, trail or
area within the Greenway anything that obstructs or interferes with such area
or interferes with the normal flow of users of the Greenway.

(d) Vehicles/horses:

(1) No unauthorized person shall operate, park, stand or use any motorized vehicle,
or ride or lead a horse within the Greenway, except in areas provided,
maintained or designated for such purpose.

(2) Horses are permitted only on posted equestrian trails, where located.

(3) The provisions of Subsections (1) and (2) of this Section do not apply to
governmental officials or their agents acting within their official capacity.

(e) Animals:

(1) Companion animals are allowed if on a leash no longer than six feet and in
strict control of its keeper.

(2) No person within the Greenway shall allow any pet or animal in his or her
custody:

A. To annoy or molest any person; or
B. To be tied up and left unattended; or
C. Except for areas provided, maintained or designated for such purpose, to
deposit its waste on any street, sidewalk, trail or managed landscape area
unless the person immediately removes the waste from the area.

(3) No horse or pack animal shall be tied, secured or hobbled in such a manner as
to injure any tree, shrub or Greenway improvement.

(4) No person shall cause or knowingly permit livestock within the Greenway.
1228.06 Bear Creek Greenway Plan 26

(f) Access to Private Lands - No person shall use the Greenway to gain unauthorized
access to private property adjacent or otherwise to the Greenway.

(g) Property Destruction - No unauthorized person shall:

(1) Pick, cut, mutilate, blaze, paint or remove any flowers, shrubs, foliage, trees or
plant life, or property of any kind, within the Greenway area without written
permission therefore from the Greenway Authority;

(2) Mutilate, deface, damage, move or remove any Greenway equipment,
including but not limited to streets, sidewalks, bicycle paths or any part of the
public right-of -way, tables, benches, buildings, signs, markers, plaques,
barriers, fountains, faucets, traffic recorders or other structures or facilities of
any kind within the Greenway area; or

(3) Dig, dredge, deface or remove any dirt, stones, rocks, artifacts or other
substances, make any excavation, quarry any stones or other objects or cause
or assist in doing any of such things within the Greenway area, except upon
written permission from the Greenway Authority.

(h) Fires:

(1) Unless specifically authorized, no person shall build, light or maintain any fire,
portable gas, gasoline or oil stoves or other portable cooking devices, or leave
a fire unattended, throw or deposit any burning substance, or other substance
capable of burning or combustion within the Greenway.

(2) A person shall be responsible for damage resulting from fires caused by said
person and for the cost of suppressing such fires.

(i) Offensive Littering:

(1) No person shall:

A. Throw, dump, deposit or leave any trash, refuse, garbage, litter, cigarettes
or tobacco products, or waste material within the Greenway area, except
in receptacles designated by the Greenway Authority for that purpose;

B. Bring into the Greenway area any trash, refuse, garbage, litter, waste
material or vehicle for the purpose of leaving it therein;
27 Bear Creek Greenway Plan 1228.06

C. Wash any clothing or other materials in the waters of any pond or stream,
or throw, dump or deposit into such waters, or onto the banks thereof, any
trash, refuse, garbage, litter, waste material or other polluting product of
any kind. Pollution and waste, for the purpose of this Su bsection, are as
defined in ORS 468B.005 (3) and (7).

(2) In addition to fine imposed pursuant to violation of any provision of this
Section, violator is responsible for any and all costs resulting from necessary
response, clean up, or damage caused by the act of offensive littering.

(j) Camping:

(1) Unless specifically authorized, no person shall camp or dwell within the
Greenway, or under any bridge or viaduct within the Greenway area.

(2) Violation of Subsection (1) of this Section is subject to the rules of notification
and removal of persons and property set forth in ORS 203.077 and adopted
under Jackson County Code Sections 1078.03 to 1078.09.  Standard penalties
as set forth in Section 1228.09 shall not be imposed for the first violation of
this Section.

(k) Peddlers and Solicitors; Advertising; Signs:

(1) Unless otherwise specifically permitted by the Greenway Authority or other
appropriate local governmental authority, no person shall, within the
Greenway:

A. Operate a concession, either fixed or mobile, or engage in the business of
soliciting, selling or peddling goods, wares, merchandise, liquids or
edibles for human consumption;

B. Advertise in any manner, including but not limited to distributing
circulars, or using fixed or mobile display; or

C. Erect any sign, marker or inscription.

(2) Unauthorized signing or trail marking is prohibited.

(l) Alcoholic Beverages  - Possessing or drinking alcoholic beverages within the
Greenway is prohibited.
1228.09 Bear Creek Greenway Plan 28

(m) Firearms, Air Guns and Other Weapons - No person, other than law enforcement
officers performing their official duties, shall discharge any  firearm, air gun, pellet gun,
bow and arrow, slingshot or other projectile propelling device within the Greenway.

(n) Fireworks - No person shall possess or use fireworks or explosives of any type
within the Greenway.

(o) Hunting - Unless specificall y authorized, no person shall, or attempt, to pursue,
hunt, trap, kill or injure any wild bird or animal within, into or out of the Greenway area.

(p) Noise - Loudspeakers, public address systems and amplified musical instruments are
allowed within the Greenway only upon approval from the Greenway Authority or other
appropriate local governmental authority.

(Ord. 99-41. Passed 11-10-99; E.Ord 2003-29. Passed 10-15- 03; P. Ord 2003 -28. Passed
10-29-03.)

1228.07  SEVERABILITY.

If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of Sections 1228.02 to
1228.09 is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent provision,
and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions thereof.

(Ord. 99-41. Passed 11-10-99.)

1228.08  JURISDICTION; ENFORCEMENT.

(a) Persons are subject to the jurisdiction of that unit of local government in which the
violation has alleged to have been committed.

(b) Enforcement of this code may be performed by any law enforcement officer whose
jurisdictional boundaries include or are adjacent to the Greenway, or by any enforcement
personnel as designated by the Greenway Authority.

(Ord. 99-41. Passed 11-10-99.)

1228.09  VIOLATIONS/PENALTY.

(a) Unless provided otherwise, violations of any provision of this ordinance shall, upon
conviction, be punished by a fine set by that unit of local government in which the
violation has been committed.
29 Bear Creek Greenway Plan 1228.09

(b) Violations committed within the jurisdiction of Jackson County shall, upon
conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than $250.00 per incident.

(Ord. 99-41. Passed 11-10-99.)