CHAPTER 212
Law Enforcement Duties to Inventory Property

212.01 P
urpose.
212.02 Definitions.
212.03 Inventories of Impounded Vehicles.
212.04 Inventories of Persons in Law Enforcement Custody.

212.01 PURPOSE.

This ordinance is meant to apply exclusively to the process of conducting an inventory of
the personal property in an impounded vehicle and the personal property of anyone in law
enforcement custody and shall not be interpreted to affect any other statutory or
constitutional rights(s) that law enforcement officers may employ to search or seize
possessions for other purposes.

Further, this ordinance is meant to protect the county and its officers and employees from
the very real possibility of false claims related to the theft of personal property incident to
vehicle impoundment or arrest.  It will also have the effect of protecting citizens from the
theft of their property while in the control of the county.  With the unfortunate increase in
the illegal use and manufacture of drugs, comes a growing concern that containers carried
within vehicles and on the person of individuals lawfully detained might contain toxic,
flammable or explosive substances.  This fear is confirmed by the recent increase in the
number of homemade  bombs found in the valley.  The county is justifiably concerned
with the safety of its officers and employees and of the public and has the duty to protect
against harm when possible.

There is a further concern with the safety and integrity of the county's detention facilities.
Due to lack of space and the cost of security, it is not possible to secure personal property
stored for those in custody in vaults or places where absolute security can be guaranteed.
Thus, for all of the reasons set out above, it is necessary to inventory the contents of all
containers that can be opened without resort to force.

It is also true that people being detained often carry with them containers storing food
and other perishable items.  It is essential to maintain sanitary conditions within the
county's detention facilities, thus making it necessary to open containers that can be
opened without the use of force in order to search for perishable items and reduce the
possibility of attracting rats and other vermin.

(E. Ord. 98-14. Passed 4-29-98; P. Ord. 98-15. Passed 4-29-98.)

212.02 Law Enforcement Duties to Inventory Property  34

212.02 DEFINITIONS.

For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:

(a) Open Container - means a container which is unsecured or incompletely secured in
such a fashion that the container's contents are exposed to view.

(b) Closed Container - means a container, the contents of which are not exposed to
view.

(c) Law Enforcement Custody - means either:

(1) The imposition of restraint as a result of an "arrest"  as that term is defined in
ORS 133.005(1);

(2) The imposition of actual or constructive restraint by a law enforcement officer
pursuant to a court order;

(3) The imposition of actual or constructive constraint of an individual pursuant to
ORS 430.399.

(4) The imposition of actual or constructive restraint by a law enforcement officer
for purposes of taking the restrained person to an approved facility for the
involuntary confinement of persons pursuant to Oregon law.

(d) Law Enforcement Officer - means the Sheriff or any Deputy Sheriff of Jackson
County and probation officers employed by Jackson County having the powers of peace
officers as set out in ORS 137.620.

(e) Other County Personnel Authorized to C arry out Inventory Searches - means the
director of a detoxification center or other treatment facility as those terms are defined in
ORS 430.306 and the juvenile director or these individuals' designees.

(f) Sheriff - means the Sheriff of Jackson County or his designated representative.

(g) Personal Property - means all property other than real property or an interest in real
property.

(E. Ord. 98-14. Passed 4-29-98; P. Ord. 98-15. Passed 4-29-98.)

35 Law Enforcement Duties to Inventory Property  212.03

212.03 INVENTORIES OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES.

(a) The contents of all vehicles impounded by a law enforcement officer will be
inventoried. The inventory shall be conducted before constructive custody of the vehicle
is transferred to a third-party towing company except under the following circumstances:

(1) If there is reasonable suspicion to believe that the safety of either the law
enforcement officer(s) or any other person is at risk, a required inventory will
be done as soon as safely practical; or

(2) If the vehicle is being impounded for evidentiary purposes in connection with
the investigation of a criminal offense, the inventory will be done after such
investigation is completed.

(b) The purpose for the inventory of an impounded vehicle will be to:

(1) Promptly identify property in order to reduce and tend to prevent the assertion
of false claims against the county;

(2) Protect the owners' property while in police custody and assist in the
prevention of theft of property;

(3) Locate toxic, dangerous, flammable or explosive substances; and

(4) Reduce the danger to persons and property.

(c) Inventories of impounded vehicles will be conducted according to the following
procedure:

(1) An inventory of personal property and the contents of open containers will be
conducted throughout the passenger and engine compartments of the vehicle,
including but not limited to accessible areas under or within the dashboard
area, in any pockets in the doors or in the back of the front seat, in any console
between the seats, under any floor mats, and under the seats;

(2) In addition to the passenger and engine compartments as described above, an
inventory of personal property and the contents of open containers will also be
conducted in the following locations:

A. Any other type of unlocked compartments that are a part of the vehicle
including, but not limited to unlocked vehicle trunks and unlocked car-top
containers; and
212.04 Law Enforcement Duties to Inventory Property  36

B. Any locked compartments including, but not limited to locked vehicle
trunks, locked hatchbacks and locked car-top containers, if either the keys
are available to be released with the vehicle to the third-party towing
company or an unlocking mechanism for such compartment is available
within the vehicle.

(3) A closed container left either within the vehicle or any of the vehicle's
compartments will have its contents inventoried only when the closed
container is designed for carrying money and/or valuables, including but not
limited to closed purses, closed coin purses, closed wallets, closed fanny packs
and backpacks, and unlocked suitcases, attach or brief cases. The contents of
locked suitcases, attach or brief cases shall be inventoried if and only if the key
to the suitcase is available to be released with the vehicle to the third-party
towing company.

(4) Upon completion of the inventory, the law enforcement officer will complete a
report as directed by the Sheriff or appropriate department director.

(5) Any valuables located during the inventory process will be listed on a property
receipt. A copy of the property receipt will either be left in the vehicle or
tendered to the person in control of the vehicle if such person is present. The
valuables will be dealt with in such manner as directed by the Sheriff or
appropriate department director.

(E. Ord. 98-14. Passed 4-29-98; P. Ord. 98-15. Passed 4-29-98.)

212.04 INVENTORIES OF PERSONS IN LAW ENFORCEMENT CUSTODY.

(a) A law enforcement officer or other county personnel authorized to carry out
inventory searches will inventory the personal property in the possession of anyone taken
into law enforcement custody and such inventory will be conducted whenever:

(1) Such person will be either placed in a secure law enforcement holding room or
transported in a law enforcement vehicle; or

(2) Custody of the person will be transferred to another law enforcement agency,
correctional facility, or "detoxification" or "treatment facility" as those phrases
are defined in ORS 430.306 or such other lawfully approved facility for the
involuntary confinement of persons pursuant to Oregon Revised Statute.

(b) The purpose of the inventory of a person in law enforcement custody will be to:

(1) Promptly identify property in order to reduce and tend to prevent the assertion
of false claims against the county;
37 Law Enforcement Duties to Inventory Property 212.04

(2) Fulfill the requirements of ORS 133.455 to the extent that such statute may
apply to certain property held by the law enforcement officer for safekeeping;

(3) Protect the owners' property while in police custody and assist in the
prevention of theft of property;

(4) Locate toxic, dangerous, flammable or explosive substances;

(5) Locate weapons and instruments that may facilitate an escape from custody or
endanger law enforcement personnel;

(6) Reduce the danger to persons and property; and

(7) Locate perishable items which may endanger the health and safety of those
inside a custodial facility by attracting rats and other vermin.

(c) Inventories of the personal property in the possession of such persons will be
conducted according to the following procedures:

(1) An inventory will occur prior to placing such person into a holding room or
law enforcement vehicle, whichever occurs first. However, if there is
reasonable suspicion to believe that the safety of the law enforcement
officer(s), the person in custody, or others are at risk, an inventory will be done
as soon as safely practical prior to the transfer of custody to another law
enforcement agency or facility.

(2) To complete the inventory of the personal property in the possession of such
person, the law enforcement officer or other county personnel authorized to
carry out inventory searches will remove all items of personal property from
the clothing worn by such person.  In addition, all items of personal property
will be removed from all open containers in the possession of such person.

(3) A closed container in the possession of such person will have its contents
inventoried only when:

A. The closed container is to be placed in the immediate possession of such
person at the time that person is placed in the secure portion of a custodial
facility, law enforcement vehicle or secure law enforcement holding
room;

B. Such person requests that the closed container be with him/her in a law
enforcement vehicle or a secure law enforcement holding room;
212.04 Law Enforcement Duties to Inventory Property   38

C. The closed container is designed for carrying money and/or valuables on
or about the person, including but not limited to closed purses, closed
coin purses, closed wallets, closed fanny packs and backpacks and
unlocked suitcases, attached or brief cases; or

D. When a closed container is to be stored by the county while the person
from whom it is taken is in law enforcement custody inside a jail, juvenile
detention facility or detoxification center.  Only those closed containers
that can be opened without the use of force shall be opened and their
contents inventoried.  Those containers that are locked without access to
the key and those containers that are taped and secured in a fashion which
would require the removal of the securing mechanism, may not be opened
unless there is an independent statutory or constitutional purpose for
opening the container.

(d) Valuables found during the inventory process will be noted by the individual doing
the search in a report as directed by the Sheriff or appropriate department director.

(e) All items of personal property, neither left in the immediate possession of the person
in custody, nor left with the facility or agency accepting custody of the person, will be
handled in the following manner:

(1) A property receipt will be prepared listing the property to be retained in the
possession of the county and a copy of that receipt will be tendered to the
person in custody when such person is released to the facility or agency
accepting custody of such person;

(2) The property will be dealt with in such manner as directed by the Sheriff or
appropriate department director.

(f) All items of personal property neither left in the immediate possession of the person
in custody nor dealt with as provided in Subsection 212.04(e) above, will be re leased to
the facility or agency accepting custody of the person so that they may:

(1) Hold the property for safekeeping on behalf of the person in custody, and

(2) Prepare and deliver a receipt, as may be required by ORS 133.455, for any
valuables held on behalf of the person in custody.

(E. Ord. 98-14. Passed 4-29-98; P. Ord. 98-15. Passed 4-29-98.)