CHAPTER 1231
FEDERAL COORDINATION POLICY

123
1.01 Background.
1231.02 Overarching Policies.
1231.03 Federal Land Management Policy.
1231.04 Air and Water Resources.
1231.05 Endangered Species.
1231.06 Federal Project Review.

1231.01 BACKGROUND.

(a) Federal Coordination Laws. Federal law requires several federal agencies to
coordinate with affected local governments regarding their respective planning and
permitting activities and other federal actions.  Most coordination laws address land and
resource management planning on federal lands.  Federal agencies are also required to
seek comments from affected local governments regarding designating critical habitat for
endangered species, licensing energy projects, and evaluating the environmental impacts
of major federal actions.

Most federal coordination laws specify only that an agency must coordinate with local
governments without providing further guidance.  However, some of the federal land
management statutes impose more detailed coordination requirements.  For example, the
Federal Land Policy Management Act (FLPMA) and the regulations promulgated there
under describe federal coordination in more detail.  The FLPMA and the regulations
promulgated there under impose more detailed coordination requirements on the Bureau
of Land Management (BLM), including:

(1) Keeping apprised of local land use plans;

(2) Considering local land use plans in developing federal land use plans;

(3) Resolving any inconsistencies between local and federal land use plans to the
extent practical and;

(4) Providing for meaningful local government involvement in the development
and revision of land use plans, land use regulations, and land use decisions
regarding public lands.

In addition to the FLPMA, the regulations promulgated under the National Forest
Management Act (NFMA) require the Forest Service to “provide early and frequent
opportunities for local governments to participate in the planning process.”
1231.01 Federal Coordination Policy  42

To commence federal coordination, Jackson County hereby exercises its right to
coordinate regarding federal actions affecting its jurisdiction and its right to be notified of
such actions.  When a federal agency contemplates such an action, the agency must notify
Jackson County of such action so Jackson County can monitor, analyze and comment on
the process and the local effects of the action.  The federal agency should also seek
consistency between the proposed action and the Jackson County laws and plans.

(b) Federal Coordination Policy Function. The function of this Federal Coordination
Policy is  to provide a sound policy basis to negotiate formal coordination procedure
agreements with individual federal agencies and communicate the Board of
Commissioners’ policy positions on federal policy and actions that affect Jackson
County.

(1) Relationship to Other County Departments and Policies . This Federal
Coordination Policy is not a land use decision or comprehensive plan as these
terms are defined in Oregon Revised Statutes (ORS) Chapter 197.  The Federal
Coordination Policy is only applicable where federal land ownership, federal
projects, and/or federal permitting requirements assign land use decision-
making to the federal government.  In this way, the Federal Co ordination
Policy is a limited scope document that functions only to guide federal policies
and activities.

(2) Federal Coordination Policy Organization. This Federal Coordination Policy is
divided into three sections: overarching policies, federal land management and
federal projects.  The first section addresses Jackson County’s general policies
relating to the process for coordination between Jackson County and the
federal agencies and the development of and modifications to federal policy.
This section provides a set of overarching policies that are intended to apply to
all other policies and to which all other policies are subservient.  The second
section addresses federal land management policies.  This section provides
policies relating to the executive administration of federal land management
laws, rules and policies.  The third section addresses federal projects.  Projects
are very different from policies, plans, laws, and rules, because they involve
physical actions.  This section provides policies relating to both the process for
coordinating on projects generally and the methods for coordination actions on
specific projects.
43 Federal Coordination Policy 1231.02

(c) Amendments and Updates to the Federal Coordination Policy . The Federal
Coordination Policy contemplates that updates will be required from time to time to
respond to changes in federal laws, rules and coordination procedures and with Jackson
County’s economic, social and political priorities.  Minor updates may be scheduled on
an annual or bi-annual basis.  The Federal Coordination Policy contemplates that major
policy reviews will occur every 5-7 years.  The Federal Coordination Policy contemplates
that Jackson County Coordination comments on specific projects or management policy
proposals will be ongoing and these constitute implementation of the Federal
Coordination Policy.

1231.02 OVERARCHING POLICIES.

Subsequent sections of this Federal Coordination Policy are subservient to the
overarching policies and implementation strategies contained in this section.  The policies
in the subsequent sections should be interpreted consistent with this section.

(a) Purpose of the Federal Coordination Policy:

(1) Jackson County asserts its maximum rights to coordination, as provided by
law, with all federal agencies conducting activities in or affecting Jackson
County.

(2) The policies contained in the Federal Coordination Policy are enacted with the
express intent of developing meaningful and productive relationships with the
federal agencies that coordinate with Jackson County.

(b) Coordination Agreement:

(1) Jackson County will transmit a formal request to initiate immediate and
ongoing coordination with federal agencies that the Jackson County Board of
Commissioners find conduct activities in or that may affect Jackson County.
These agencies include, but are not limited to, the following:  USDA Forest
Service; US Department of the Interior Bureaus which are Bureau of Land
Management (BLM), Bureau of Reclamation (Reclamation), National Park
Service, and US Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS); NOAA’s National Marine
Fisheries Service (NOAA Fisheries); Army Corps of Engineers; Federal
Regulatory Energy Commission (FERC); and Natural Resource Conservation
Service.
1231.02 Federal Coordination Policy  44

(2) In its transmittal requesting coordination, Jackson County may consider
making a request to a respective recipient agency to develop a formal
coordination agreement with Jackson County.  The agreement may include, but
is not limited to, the following:  mechanisms for agreement amendments;
policy development notification procedure; policy development review and
comment; policy development conferences; project notification; project review
and comment; and project coordination conferences.

(c) Federal Policy Changes. Jackson County recognizes and respects that the federal
government has many policy priorities that change over time and that these changes
affect federal land management.  Political, cultural, economic, environmental, and
national security dynamics are in constant states of change and these changes sometimes
translate into land management changes.  This section describes Jackson County’s
general policies regarding changes to federal land management.  This section applies only
to changes in federal ownership interests and does not extend to leasehold interests or
mining claims.

(1) Jackson County supports changes to coordination laws, rules and
administrative procedures that will strengthen requirements for coordination
and consistency between federal and local plans and policy.

(2) Jackson County opposes major land management policy actions enacted by the
executive branch of the federal government outside of the ordinary land
management planning and policy development process and deem such actions
to subvert the coordination requirements otherwise required.

(3) Coordinating federal agencies are expected to notify Jackson County of any
proposed changes to any administrative rule or guidance regarding
coordination procedures within 42 days of project initiation and that provides
for not less than 60 days for response and comment from Jackson County on
the proposed changes.  The agency and Jackson County may consider
amending their coordination agreement, if such agreement exists, accordingly
to reflect any resulting changes.

(4) Coordinating federal agencies are expected to notify Jackson County of any
land management policy changes contemplated by the agency at the earliest
practicable point in the policy development process and not later than 60 days
from project initiation, consistent with any coordination procedure agreement
between Jackson County and the respective coordinating federal agency.
Jackson County will exercise its rights to coordinate and participate in policy
development relating to any policy changes that are material to the interests of
Jackson County.
45 Federal Coordination Policy 1231.03

(d) Federal Land Ownership Changes. There are many federal interests associated with
federal land holdings in Jackson County.  Jackson County recognizes that changes to the
federal government’s land holdings may occur from time to time.  Jackson County,
similarly, has a wide array of interests that are affected by changes in federal land
holdings in Jackson County.  This section describes Jackson County’s overarching
policies regarding changes to the federal government’s land holdings in Jackson County.

(1) Jackson County finds that changes to federal land holdings may function to
support economic development opportunities in areas such as renewable
energy production, transportation, and tourism.  Jackson County supports
federal land holding changes to capitalize on economic development
opportunities and are otherwise appropriate.

(2) Jackson County finds that federal land holding changes may function to
preserve or enhance historic and cultural assets.  Jackson County supports land
holding changes that advance these interests and are otherwise appropriate.

(3) Jackson County finds that federal land holding changes may function to
improve the environment and make land management more effective.  Jackson
County supports land holding changes that make management more efficient
and better balance environmental asset preservation with land use and utility
and are otherwise appropriate.  Land exchanges or donations should not result
in a net loss of general fund revenue to Jackson County as a result of property
taxes that would have otherwise accrued.

(4) Jackson County finds that federal land holding changes may function to
support developed recreation and Jackson County’s tourist economy.  Jackson
County supports land holding changes that support developed recreation
investments and are otherwise appropriate for the area.

(5) Jackson County finds that national security is the most important national
interest.  Jackson County supports changes in federal land holdings that serve
national security interests and are otherwise appropriate.

1231.03 FEDERAL LAND MANAGEMENT POLICY.

This section describes Jackson County’s policies regarding the federal government’s
management of lands it owns or controls. Subsequent sections address policies for federal
projects.  Although the policies include references to target agencies as examples, the
policies are not exclusive to those agencies and apply to any other agencies under similar
circumstances.
1231.03 Federal Coordination Policy  46

(a) Forestland and Rangeland Management Policies. This section describes Jackson
County’s policies regarding federal land management plans that affect forestland and
rangeland in Jackson County.

(1) Jackson County supports forest planning that will result in sustainable timber
yields from lands in Jackson County.  Calculations of sustainable yields should
be based upon the best science and forest management practices available and
should adequately account for lands that have environmental restrictions or
other similar constraints.

(2) Jackson County supports forest management plans that provide for effective
and efficient timber harvests and achieve planned timber yields.  Forest
management plans should encourage timber harvest proposals that are likely to
withstand legal challenges.

(3) Jackson County supports forest management plans that contain policies and
implementation that will achieve timber sales and begin harvests within 12
months of wildfire events.  This policy applies to any area where the forest
management plan otherwise supports timber harvests as an appropriate land
utilization.

(4) Jackson County supports forest planning that will improve forest health and
decrease the risk of wildfires, especially in the urban-wildland interface areas
of Jackson County.  Jackson County recognizes and supports forest plans that
include components for stewardship, small diameter logging and similar active
management practices as well as road access for firefighting.

(5) Jackson County supports continued maintenance and operation of most, if not
all, of the existing Forest Service and BLM roads.  Jackson County recognizes
that some roads and roadway networks may become obsolete or cost
prohibitive and that management must prioritize the needs of its system.  To
provide funds for continued operation and maintenance of existing roads,
Jackson County encourages forest planning that can be expected to generate
sufficient revenue to support the existing Forest Service and BLM road
network in Jackson County.

(6) Jackson County supports rangeland management planning that does not
decrease the level of federal grazing allotments (and/or grazing leases) that
existed on January 1, 2011, to local area ranchers.  Jackson County supports
the creation of offsetting allotments of comparable or superior quality to assure
no net-loss of grazing allotments f or any proposed management policy change
that would reduce the total gross acreage of grazing allotments in Jackson
County.
47 Federal Coordination Policy 1231.03

(7) Jackson County supports rangeland management planning that would return
the level of federal grazing allotments (and/or grazing leases) to those that
existed on January  1, 2000, to local area ranchers; that date being prior to the
creation of the Cascade-Siskiyou National Monument.  Jackson County
supports the creation of offsetting allotments of comparable or superior quality
to assure no net-loss of grazing allotments for any proposed management
policy change that would reduce the total gross acreage of grazing allotments
in Jackson County.

(8) When an agency that is required to coordinate with Jackson County initiates
any evaluation of a proposal for land preservation within Jackson County,
Jackson County seeks the highest level of coordination practicable and requests
all information generated by or provided to the agency on the proposal be
provided as early as practicable.  Preservation actions include, but are not
necessarily limited to the following:

A. Study areas to be forwarded to Congress for consideration as Wilderness.

B. Areas being considered for National Park designation.

C. Areas being considered for executive land management and policy actions
outside the ordinary land management planning and policy development
process such as monument designation or secretarial wildlands
designations.

(b) O&C Land Act Specific Policies. In a ddition to the general policies regarding all
federal land management policy choices, Jackson County has specific interest in regard to
the O&C Lands. Implementation of the O&C Lands Act has significant implications for
the general fund and Jackson County’s financial health.  For this reason, Jackson County
adopts the following policies specific to the management of O&C Lands.

(1) Jackson County recognizes that federal agencies manage O&C Lands subject
to the Federal Land Management Policy Act (FLMPA) for lands managed by
BLM and the National Forest Management Act (NFMA) for lands managed by
the Forest Service.  Jackson County also recognizes that FLMPA and NFMA
require federal agencies to coordinate with local governments affected by
amendments to federal land management plans.  Accordingly, Jackson County
asserts its right to coordinate with federal agencies regarding any change in
management policies relating to O&C Lands, including but not exclusive of
any change in the annual sustained timber yield capacity for O&C Lands.
1231.03 Federal Coordination Policy  48

(2) Jackson County recognizes that the primary purpose of the O&C Lands under
the O&C Lands Act is timber production.  Jackson County supports the
minimization of projects for purposes other than the management of a
sustained yield of timber on O&C Lands.  When considering a use for O&C
Lands other than timber production, federal agencies should evaluate non-
O&C Lands as alternatives and utilize non-O&C Lands whenever the
management objective can otherwise be advanced without the utilization of
O&C lands.  Because the O&C Lands Act includes lands managed by multiple
agencies, this alternative analysis should include inter-agency coordination and
alternative sites for land managed by any agency that manages land under the
O&C Lands Act.

(3) Jackson County recognizes that the federal agencies establish an annual
sustained yield capacity for O&C Lands under the O&C Lands Act.  Jackson
County also recognizes that actual timber sales may be significantly reduced
from the sustained yield adopted in the management plan as a result of the
individual environmental review processes necessary for each harvest project.
Jackson County supports the maximization of timber sales within the annual
sustained yield capacity.  To account for the reduction from planning to actual
timber harvest, Jackson County supports harvest planning and environmental
review processes that will be sufficient to meet the annual sustained yield
capacity; the planning and environmental review process may need to include
significantly greater acreages with more aggregate timber production potential
than the planned sustained yield in any given year to assure that actual timber
harvests in any given year can properly acco unt for delay or reduction which
often occurs during the environmental review process.

(c) Energy Policies. Existing and potential sources of energy are affected by federal
policies.  The Forest Service, Bureau of Land Management, Bureau of Reclamation, the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), and other agencies have resources and
policy jurisdictions that affect energy production and transmission in Jackson County.
Energy cost advantages are one of the most powerful economic development tools
available to a local community.  However, energy production and transmission can have
significant externalities such as pollution, aesthetic impacts, and environmental changes.
This section describes Jackson County’s policies for energy production and transmission
on Federal lands.

(1) Jackson County supports the expansion of energy production and transmission
in a manner that results in minimal negative externalities.  For example,
Jackson County supports small hydroelectric projects that tap into the existing
grid and have no significant impact on the environment.
49 Federal Coordination Policy 1231.03

(2) Jackson County supports the minimization of negative externalities of energy
production and transmission.  To offset negative externalities, Jackson County
encourages benefits such as long-term energy price reductions specific to
industries in Jackson County and investments in environmental stewardship.

(d) Mining Policies. Existing and potential sources of minerals and aggregates are
affected by federal policies.  Mining can provide significant economic development and
employment opportunities.  The Forest Service, BLM, and other agencies have resources
and policy jurisdictions related to mining activities.  However, like energy production and
transmission, mining activities can have significant negative externalities such as
pollution, aesthetic impacts, and environmental changes.  This section describes Jackson
County’s policies regarding mining on federal land.

(1) Jackson County supports the rights of existing mining claims and the
acquisition of new rights to newly discovered resources or where
technologically advances provide increased access to existing resources.

(2) Jackson County supports the minimization of negative externalities to a
practical extent.  Jackson County supports requirements for appropriate
reclamation of any mining site at the conclusion of mining activity.

(3) Jackson County supports the reclamation of abandoned mines and the
prioritization for reclamation of abandoned mines that pose a significant health
or environmental hazard.

(e) Recreation Policies. Recreation on federal lands is important to Jackson County.
The National Park Service, the Forest Service, BLM, BOR, the Army Corps of
Engineers, and other agencies have resources and policy jurisdictions that affect
recreation in Jackson County.  Recreation on federal land in Jackson County provides
economic development through tourism.  Recreation on federal land also serves long -
term economic development in Jackson County because recreation opportunities support
migration and associated investment decisions.  Recreation opportunities on federal land
range from low impact, low intensities and nominal investments, to high impacts,
intensive, and high levels of investment.  This section describes Jackson Counties’
policies regarding recreation opportunities and associated land uses on federal lands.

(1) Developed Recreation/Enrichment . Developed recreation includes uses where
significant physical improvements and investments are made on federal land to
support the recreation uses.  Developed recreation opportunities on federal land
may include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following:  Nordic and/or
alpine ski areas; trails; privately held long-term leased and short-term leased
forest cabins; reservoirs; campgrounds and picnic areas; marinas; educational
facilities and research stations (e.g., telescopic observatories and interpretive
centers); and national park lodges and similar park investments.
1231.03 Federal Coordination Policy  50

A. Jackson County recognizes that some areas are appropriate for developed
recreation and that other areas are not.  Jackson County supports federal
land planning for developed recreation in appropriate locations.  To
evaluate suitable locations for developed recreation, federal agencies
should review Jackson County’s Destination Resort Map and align federal
plans with local land use plans that support large- scale developed
recreation investments.

B. Jackson County generally supports planning and designation for
developed recreation in locations where developed recreation
improvements already exist.  Jackson County prioritizes these areas for
reinvestment and expansion to meet existing and future needs.

C. Jackson County supports opportunities for additional developed
recreation in Jackson County.  Jackson County -wide level of developed
recreation should not be decreased.  Any decreases in the level of a major
developed recreation amenity in Jackson County should be offset by a
corresponding replacement or increase of a similar type of developed
recreation opportunity elsewhere in Jackson County.

(2) Low-Impact Recreation Uses. Low-impact recreation uses generally involve
relatively small scale p hysical improvements and low-levels of investments on
federal land to support the recreation uses.  Low-impact recreation
opportunities on federal land may include, but are not necessarily limited to,
the following:  horseback riding; hiking; hunting; fishing; unregistered boating
(boats not requiring registration under Oregon law); and bird-watching.

A. Jackson County supports most all low-impact recreation uses.  Jackson
County recognizes that some low impact uses are not consistent with
National Park management plans but supports plans that allow for as
many low -impact recreation uses as may be appropriate for a national
park.

B. Jackson County supports the preservation and maintenance of existing
physical improvements that support low impact recreation uses, such
roads to trailheads, boat ramps and similar infrastructure.
51 Federal Coordination Policy 1231.04

(3) High-Impact Recreation Uses. High-impact recreation uses may or may not
require significant physical improvements and investments on federal land to
support the recreation uses and may affect the natural environment to varying
degrees.  Impacts on the natural environment may include erosion, noise,
permissible levels of pollution discharge, and similar impacts.  Intensive
recreation opportunities on federal land may include, but are not necessarily
limited to, the following:  registered boating (boats requiring registration under
Oregon law); off -highway vehicles; snow- machines; and motorized
commercial recreation, such as snow-cat tours, snow-cat skiing, and jet-boat
tours.

A. Jackson County recognizes that some areas are appropriate for high-
impact recreation activities while other areas are not.  Jackson County
supports federal land planning for high-impact recreation in appropriate
locations.

B. Jackson County prioritizes locations with existing intensive recreation
uses for reinvestment and expansion to meet existing and future needs.

(f) National Security. Agencies such as the Department of Defense and the Department
of Homeland Security use lands to meet the security needs of the United States of
America.  Local concerns or issues are usually secondary to investment and strategic
decisions about federal lands for national security.

(1) Jackson County recognizes that priorities and investments in our national
defense will change over time and that national security investment and
strategic decisions must take precedent over local concerns or issues.  Where
local issues and concerns can reasonably be addressed without compromise to
national security interests, then Jackson County supports the minimization of
local conflicts and potential adverse impacts.

1231.04 AIR AND WATER RESOURCES.

(a) In addition to other requirements and obligations imposed by federal and state law,
this section describes Jackson County’s policy regarding land use management planning
and Federal projects affecting air and water resource issues.

(b) When Jackson County coordinates on projects that implicate air and water
resources, Jackson County will rely on approved implementation plans, permit
requirements, and adopted processes to determine whether water and air resource issues
are adequately addressed by the project.
1231.05 Federal Coordination Policy  52

1231.05 ENDANGERED SPECIES.

(a) Species Listing. Species listing can occur either by agency initiated action or by
private petition.  The applicable agency (FWS or NOAA Fisheries) reviews the data to
make one of three determinations for the species: not warranted, warranted but precluded,
and warranted.  This section describes Jackson Counties’ policies regarding the listing of
species occurring in Jackson County under the Endangered Species Act (ESA).

(1) The agency will notify the County of any petitions submitted for species and
the lists of candidate species occurring in Jackson County.  If Jackson County
determines a petition for listing or candidate species is vital to Jackson
County’s interests, then Jackson County may, if feasible, collaborate with
others and/or take a leadership role in the listing evaluation process.
Leadership activities may include but are not limited to the following:

A. Review of scientific data and development of data supplements if
determined appropriate.

B. Determine if it is appropriate for Jackson County to be the permit holder
for a Programmatic Candidate Conservation Agreement with Assurances
(PCCAA) as a pre -emptive measure to accomplish ESA objectives
through habitat preservation and other negotiated species support actions.

(b) Critical Habitat Designation. When comme nting on proposed critical habitat
designations, Jackson County may take into account potential benefits by considering
qualified scientific professionals, economists and/or environmental law experts in the
development of Jackson County’s comments on the proposed designation.

(c) Habitat Conservation Plans. Habitat Conservation Plans (HCP) are planning
documents required as part of an application for an incidental take permit.  Certain HCP
may be beneficial depending on the species and the types of actions and specific locations
affected by the specific species listing.  Jackson County may consider proposals to
collaborate on and/or be the lead agency for the development of HCP for listed species
known to exist or with habitat in Jackson County.  At a minimum, any such proposal
brought to Jackson County by a third party must include the following:

(1) Timeline to complete the HCP.

(2) Contact information and any preliminary communications with the applicable
FWS or NMFS field or regional office agent who is expected to be assigned
staff support for the project.
53 Federal Coordination Policy 1231.06

(3) Estimated costs to file the HCP and the proposed responsible party(s) for the
project costs.  Costs should be itemized according to major categories like –
GIS Habitat Mapping, Field Data Collection, Plan Preparation, Other Agency
Permits, Draft NEPA Documentation, etc.

(4) For the HCP related to a specific project, Jackson County will apply applicable
policies herein, but may provide additional comment through the NEPA review
that relate specifically to the HCP aspect of the project.

(d) Safe Harbor Agreements. A Safe Harbor Agreement (SHA) is an agreement
between the agency and a private landowner, providing that where a baseline habitat
condition is established, actions that may enhance the habitat conditions and increase
species prevalence on the property will not result in additional use restrictions beyond
those that would have been applicable under the baseline condition.  A Programmatic
SHA provides a process to establish a baseline and details a list of actions that could be
taken to support the species and then prescribes the “programmatic” or “blanket safe
harbors” that will apply for any property owner who elects to participate.

(1) Jackson County’s policy is that Programmatic SHAs may be beneficial
depending on the species and the types of actions and specific locations
affected by the specific species listing.  Jackson County may consider
proposals to collaborate on and/or be the lead agency for the development of a
Programmatic SHA for listed species known to exist or with habitat in Jackson
County.  At a minimum, any such proposal brought to Jackson County by a
third party must include the following:

A. Timeline to complete the Programmatic SHA.

B. Contact information and any preliminary communications with the
applicable FWS or NMFS field or regional office agent who is expected
to be assigned staff support for the project.

C. Estimated costs to develop the Programmatic SHA and the proposed
responsible party(s) for the project costs.  Costs should be itemized
according to major categories like – GIS Habitat Mapping, Field Data
Collection, Agreement Preparation, etc.

1231.06 FEDERAL PROJECT REVIEW.

Certain projects that are federally funded, located on federal land, or require federal
permitting are considered “major federal actions” and require the agency to perform an
environmental review under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA).  Projects
subject to this section include both federal, state or local government project and private
projects subject to federal requirements.
1231.06 Federal Coordination Policy  54

(a) Federal Projects. This section describes Jackson County’s general policies regarding
federal actions subject to environmental review under NEPA.

(1) If the project is of material interest to Jackson County (as determined by
Jackson County leadership), then Jackson County may request a role in the
NEPA project scoping that may include, but not necessarily be limited to the
following:

A. Jackson County and the relevant agency(s) will follow any procedures
contained in a mutually adopted coordination agreement.

B. Jackson County will make reasonable efforts to provide constructive input
to the agency(s) on the project purpose and need.

C. Jackson County will make reasonable efforts to provide constructive input
to the agency(s) on the initial alternatives to be analyzed.

D. Jackson County will make reasonable efforts to identify data needs and
technical analysis the County believes are essential to the NEPA process
during the scoping and project development stage.  Examples of data
needs and technical analysis that is of interest to Jackson County may
include, but is not limited to, issues such as:  proliferation of invasive
species; impacts to water quality or quantity; risk of wildfire; impacts to
air quality; habitat mapping; and carbon emissions.

(2) Jackson County supports maximizing net benefits to Jackson County and
minimizing adverse environmental impacts of the project.

(3) Jackson County supports project alternatives that demonstrate the optimum
economically achievable balance between national benefits, local benefits, and
minimized adverse environmental impacts.

(b) Selected Project Types. The policies in this section are directed at typical or
common project types often located on Federal land.  These project types should not be
construed to represent the universe of potential project types or impair or limit the need
for specific positions on the types of projects addressed in this section.

(1) Energy Generation and Transmission Facilities:

A. Jackson County supports energy generation and transmission facilities
that expand access to low-cost power for consumers and businesses in
Jackson County, create new tax revenue sources, provide employment,
encourage technological development, improve public safety, and provide
franchise rights and transmission corridor lease payments.
55 Federal Coordination Policy 1231.06

(2) Waterworks:

A. Jackson County supports waterworks facilities that expand access to low-
cost domestic and/or agricultural water, create new tax revenue sources,
provide employment, encourage technological development, improved
public safety, provide aqueduct lease payments, and increase flood
control.

(3) Recreation Development:

A. Jackson County supports recreation facilities that expand recreation
opportunities for local residents, create economic development
opportunities, and enhance alternative recreation uses that currently exist
or which would be suitable for the area.

(4) Transportation:

A. For transportation projects subject to transportation system planning
under Oregon’s land use laws, Jackson County support will limit
comments to the evaluation of NEPA alternatives for the planned
projects.

B. For projects that are not subject to transportation system planning under
Oregon’s land use laws, Jackson County will evaluate projects based on
the benefit to Jackson County.  These benefits may include expanded
access to federal lands, reduced travel times, and improved integration
with the existing transportation system.  For proposed closures or
relocations, Jackson County will consider how access will be retained,
why the action is necessary to implement the management plan for the
area, and what changes may occur on the existing transportation s ystem in
the affected area.

(5) Historic and/or Cultural Preservation:

A. Jackson County supports cultural and historic preservation projects that
do not prevent implementation of other types of needed projects in the
area.  Where cultural and historic preservation prevents the
implementation of other projects, Jackson County will carefully consider
the competing interests and related benefits to Jackson County.
1231.06 Federal Coordination Policy  56

(6) Public Safety, Security and/or Property Protection:

A. Jackson County recognizes that public safety is of paramount importance
and supports projects that protect life and property.  Jackson County
supports all public safety, security and property protection projects that do
not negate opportunities for other very high priority project.

(7) Timber Harvests:

A. Jackson County supports timber harvests that expand access to low -cost
lumber for consumers and businesses, create new tax revenue sources,
provide employment, improve public safety, and improve forest health.

(c) Application of the Federal Coordination Policy to Other Projects . The Federal
Coordination Policy is not intended to restrict Jackson County’s participation in and
comment on federal actions not specifically described in the preceding sections.  The
Federal Coordination Policy may function as a guide in such instances, but shall not be
considered determinative.  Moreover, many of such projects also require review by
Jackson County under state and local land use laws and regulations, in which case the
Federal Coordination Policy shall not have precedence over any other type of information
that may be submitted to the record during the course of a land use proceeding by
Jackson County.  Such land use proceedings, and any decisions made therein, must be
based on the requirements of state and local land use laws and regulations including, but
not limited to, Jackson County’s Comprehensive Plan and Land Development Ordinance.

(Ord. 2011-15. Passed 12/07/11.)