CHAPTER 238
Airport Department

238.01
 Findings a
nd Purpose.
238.02 Definitions.
238.03 Privilege Fee.
238.04 Renumbered to 238.99.
238.05 Renumbered to 238.98.
238.06 Maintenance of Records.
238.07 Inspection and Audit of Records.
238.98 Savings Clause.
238.99 County Violations.

CROSS REFERENCES

Development and maintenance - see ORS 836.210
Disposition of proceeds from operation - see ORS 836.230, 836.245
Local government airports generally - see ORS 836.245
Acquisition of contiguous territory - see ORS 836.250
Airport Advisory Committee - see ADM. Ch. 251
Rogue Valley International-Medford Airport - see S.U. & P.S. Ch. 1062

238.01 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

(a) Findings. - Jackson County, hereinafter called County, finds:

(1) That the County owns and controls that certain airport and air navigation
facility located in Jackson County, State of Oregon, being generally shown on
Exhibit A, a Map of the Rogue Valley International-Medford Airport, dated
May 2014 and attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference, and
known as the Rogue Valley International- Medford Airport (“Airport”), said
Airport which includes the ingress and egress road named Airport Road and
Historic Biddle Road; and

(2) That the aviation facilities it owns and operates promote a strong economic
base for the community, assist and encourage world trade opportunities, and
are of vital importance to the health, safety,  and welfare of Jackson County;
and

(3) That the deregulation of the airline industry, the restructuring of airline
ownerships, and fluctuating market changes in the field of commercial aviation
have placed new financial challenges on the Airport and airport operators in
general; and
238.01 Airport Department  92

(4) That the County will require substantial capital investment of landside and
airside development to meet the future demand for air travel; and

(5) That the unregulated use of its airports pose a threat to the peace, health,
economic vitality, and safety of persons living in the community, the state of
Oregon, and other citizens utilizing the Rogue Valley International-Medford
Airport; and

(6) That the revenues received from commercial users of the airport facilities are
vital to the economic well-being of the Airport; and

(7) That non-tenant commercial users of the Airport receive substantial economic
benefit from their use of the Airport which benefit is being received without
compensation resulting in lost revenue to the Airport; and

(8) That it is essential that the Airport remain financially healthy to perform its
economic role in the community and to provide the community with cost-
effective aviation facilities; and

(9) That, in order to raise revenue for purposes of providing facilities for the
traveling public including customers of car rental, parking lot and flight
kitchen businesses as hereinafter defined, pay for Airport equipment; protect
the public; preserve order; provide for the public health, safety and welfare;
enhance the welfare of the County; and govern use of the Airport property; it is
necessary to adopt and implement a Privilege Fee for said businesses who are
granted the privilege of accessing Airport customers and thereby utilizing
Airport facilities; and

(10) In establishing and implementing this Privilege Fee, the County finds that
Rental Car, Parking Lot and Flight Kitchen Businesses constitute specific
classes of business operations on Airport property; and

(11) The County finds that the Privilege Fee adopted herein is reasonable and
uniform for the privileges or services affected; and

(12) The County has heretofore publicly advertised for rental car concession
contract proposals with the Airport by persons or corporations wishing to use
any of t he designated rental car business areas in the terminal on the Airport,
requiring that submitted concession contract proposals substantially conform to
the reasonable contract terms, conditions, fees, and bid instructions in the
rental car concession contract bid documents, which are on file at the
administrative offices of the Airport and pursuant to which leases and
operating agreements were awarded and signed; and.
93 Airport Department  238.01

(13) The County has heretofore publicly advertised for parking lot concession
contract proposals with the Airport by persons or corporations wishing to
operate a parking lot business area at the Airport, requiring that submitted
concession contract proposals substantially conform to the reasonable contract
terms, conditions, fees, and bid instructions in the parking lot concession
contract bid documents, which are on file at the administrative offices of the
Airport and pursuant to which leases and operating agreements were awarded
and signed; and

(14) The County has heretofore publicly advertised for flight kitchen concession
contract proposals with the Airport by persons or corporations wishing to
operate a flight kitchen business at the Airport, requiring that sub mitted
concession contract proposals substantially conform to the reasonable contract
terms, conditions, fees and bid instructions in the flight kitchen contract bid
documents, which are on file at the administrative offices of the Airport and
pursuant to which leases and operating agreements were awarded and signed;
and

(15) The aforementioned rental car, parking lot and flight kitchen concession
contracts have reasonable requirements, regulations, charges, and fees for the
privilege of supplying goods, commodities, and services at the Airport, based
on the property and improvements used, the expenses of Airport operation, the
cost of Airport facilities, including Airport debt retirement; and

(16) Rental Car Businesses, Parking Lot Operators, and Flight Kitchen Operators
not having said operating agreements and leases may, nevertheless, desire the
privilege of accessing Airport customers and suppl ying services at the Airport
from their off-site locations; and

(17) That, in order to protect the public, to provide for public safety, to preserve the
good order and peace of the County, and to raise revenue for purposes of
maintaining and expanding Airport facilities, it is necessary to enact and
provide for implementation of reasonable standards, controls, rules,
regulations, and procedures for business.

(b) Purpose. - The purpose of Sections 238.01 to 238.99 is to enact regulations of off -
Airport rental car, parking lot and flight kitchen operators consistent with the above
findings and said sections, and the regulations published pursuant thereto shall be
liberally construed to effectuate the purposes expressed herein.

(Ord. No. 98- 20. Passed 8-26-98; Ord. No. 2001-14. Passed 8-15- 01; Ord. No. 2015-12.
Passed 10-07-15.)
238.02 Airport Department  94

238.02 DEFINITIONS.

As used in Sections 238.01 through 238.99:

(a) Airport shall mean the area of Rogue Valley International -Medford Airport with the
boundaries as shown and outlined on Exhibit A , a Map of the Rogue Valley
International-Medford Airport, dated May 2014 and attached hereto and incorporated
herein by this reference.

(b) Airport Concession Fee shall mean the fee as described in Sections 238.01 to 238.99
and imposed on business and operators including, but not limited to, Rental Car
Businesses, Parking Lot Operators and Flight Kitchen Operators for the privilege granted
of accessing Airport Customers.

(c) Airport Customer or Passenger shall mean any person who arrives at, or departs
from, the Airport by aircraft, and (1) who is transported to or from a Rental Car Business
or Parking Lot Operator's off -site location via a Ground Transportation Vehicl e for the
purpose of entering into a car rental or parking lot space agreement, or (2) who enters
into a motor vehicle rental or parking lot space agreement within the same calendar day
or day after (12:00 o'clock midnight to 11:59 p.m.).

(d) Customer Facility Charge or CFC shall mean the Airport’s facility use fee
established by Jackson County Ordinance as a transaction/day facility use fee that is to be
charged to rental car customers by Rental Car Businesses and remitted to the Airport
monthly.

(e) Director shall mean the Airport Director of the Rogue Valley International-Medford
Airport.

(f) Flight Kitchen shall mean a licensed food establishment that caters and provides
food and refreshments to the airlines.

(g) Gross Receipts for the purpose of determining the Airport Concession Fee under
Sections 238.01 to 238.99, shall mean, unless specifically excluded herein:

(1) The total amount charged by car rental facility or parking lot operator during
an agreement year, including any separately stated fees and charges, in
connection with: (A) off-site Rental Car Business or Parking Lot Operator
under an agreement; (B) any activities related directly or indirectly to that
business; and (C) any other business of off-site operator elsewhere at the
Airport.
95 Airport Department  238.02

(2) The term “Gross Receipts” will also include the rental or leasing of cars and
related transactions to Airport users, or the delivery of which occurs at the
Airport or rental cars returned to the off -site operator, regardless of the
ownership, area, fleet, or location assignment of the cars, and regardless of
where payment is made or where the cars are returned. For example, if a car
originally rented by an Airport user is exchanged for another car at another of
Rental Car Business’s locations, the entire transaction, including any revenue
received for the second car, shall be included in Gross Receipts.  The term
“rental of cars” includes, but is not limited to, time and mileage charges,
LDW/CDW, fueling, charges for personal accident insurance and other
insurance, cellular phones, child restraints, and all other transactions and
charges of whatever nature arising from or incidental to off -site Rental Car
Business under permit unless expressly excluded by an agreement

(3) The term “Gross Receipts” shall specifically exclude the following:

A. Sales Tax, Airport Concession Fee and CFC. - The amount of any federal,
state, or local sales taxes, Airport Concession Fee, or CFC separately
stated and if collected by off -site Car Rental Business from its customers
to pass through without markup to a government entity with no amount
being retained by the off-site Car Rental Business. However, any amounts
collected above the required pass through amount shall be included as
Gross Revenue.

B. Recovery of Damages.  - Any sums received for damage to cars or other
properties of off -site Car Rental Business. Payments for loss, conversion
or abandonment of car.

C. Returns of Rentals from Other Airports. - Rentals which are returns of
automobiles originally rented at another airport, if Car Rental Business or
an affiliate paid a privilege or concession fee on such rental transaction to
the originating airport and no privilege or concession fee is received by
off-site Car Rental Business for this transaction.

D. Sales Proceeds . - Proceeds from the sale of used cars or disposal of
personal property of the off -site Rental Car Business and Parking Lot
Operator used by operator in the operation of Rental Car Rental Business
and Parking Lot Operators. However, the rent portion of any of Car
Rental Business’s or Parking Lot Operator’s “rent to own” or “rent to
buy” programs initiated at or contracted for at the Airport is not excluded
from Gross Revenue.
238.02 Airport Department  96

E. Third Party Charges. - The amount of any tolls, traffic violations or
towing separately stated and if collected by off -site Rental Car Business
and Parking Lot Operator from its customers to pass through without
markup to a third party with no amount being retained by the Rental Car
Business or Parking Lot Operator. However, any amount s collected above
the pass through amount above shall be included as Gross Revenue.

F. Express Exclusions. - Unless receipts from Rental Car Business or
Parking Lot Operator is expressly and particularly excluded from “ Gross
Receipts” under a permit, such receipts shall be included in Gross
Receipts.  Receipts that may be derived from sources similar but not
identical to those described herein shall be included in Gross Receipts
unless expressly excluded by the permit.

G. Carbon Offset Contributions. - The amount of any carbon offset
contribution separately stated and if collected by Rental Car Business and
Parking Lot Operator from its customers to pass through without markup
to a third party with no amount being retained by Rental Car Business and
Parking Lot Operator.  However, any amounts collected above the pass
through amount above shall be collected as Gross Revenue.

(h) Ground Transportation Vehicle shall mean any form of transportation traveling on
streets, roads, or highways that is owned by, leased by, used by or at the request of, or
procured by or at the request of, a Rental Car Business or Parking Lot Operator, their
agents, employees, officers, contractors, or subcontractors for the purpose of transporting
Airport Customers or Passengers, whether said transportation is for hire or provided
without charge.

(i) Parking Lot Operator shall mean a person, association, corporation, partnership,
joint venture, or any other business arrangement or organization, also referred to in
Sections 238.01 to 238.99 as “Permittee,” which utilizes the Airport by accessing Airport
Passengers for the purpose of picking up or delivering Passengers and transporting
Passengers to the Airport from parking lot facilities or from the Airport to parking
facilities where said parking lot facilities are at locations other than on the Airport.

(j) Permittee shall mean, and be synonymous with, Rental Car Business, Parking Lot
Operator, and Flight Kitchen Operator.
97 Airport Department  238.03

(k) Rental Car Business(es) shall mean a person, association, corporation, partnership,
joint venture, or any other business arrangement or organization, also referred to in
Sections 238.01 to 238.99 as “Permittee,” which utilizes the Airport by accessing Airport
Customers or Passengers for the purpose of conducting an off -Airport commercial
business of renting or leasing motor vehicles to said Customers or Passengers using the
Airport facilities, but does not include On-Airport Rental Car Businesses.

(Ord. No. 98 -20. Passed 8-26-98; Ord. No. 2001-14. Passed 8-15 -01; Ord. No.2015-12.
Passed 10-07-15.)

238.03 AIRPORT CONCESSION FEE.

(a) Any Permittee, as defined by Sections 238.01 to 238.99 that desires to operate from
an off -site location shall obtain a permit from the County, prior to engaging in any
business operation.  The acceptance of such permit will indicate agreement to the
following minimum terms and conditions:

(1) Fee on Gross Receipts: To pay to the County during the applicable term of the
permit such percentage of Gross Receipts as the County from time to time may
set, provided that any change of percentage rate shall not take effect before
ninety days after the date of written notice sent to all the then current permit
holders, said notice being mailed to the last  known address on file with the
County for said permit holders; and further provided that said percentage rate,
as it relates to off -site Businesses, shall not exceed the percentage rate charged
to the Businesses holding an executed and valid operating agreement  and lease
for property located at the Airport.  Said Gross Receipts payment shall be due
and payable on or before the twentieth day of each month for the preceding
month's Gross Receipts.

(b) Permittee shall provide to the County the following:

(1) Written proof of commercial general liability insurance, including automobile
liability covering owned, hired, and non- owned vehicles in the amount of at
least $1,000,000 combined single limit, for each occurrence for bodily injury,
death, or property damage occurring by reason of concessionaire's operations
on the Airport.  The policy or policies providing said coverage shall include
premises, operations, independent contractors, personal injury (deleting any
exclusion relating to employees), products, and contractual liability including,
but not limited to, the liability assumed by concessionaire under the hold
harmless provisions of this Permit.

(2) The make, model, color, identification number, and motor vehicle registration
number of all vehicles to be operated on Airport property.
238.05 Airport Department  98

(3) The names and job titles of local management personnel, as well as, all
business employees engaged in the operation of vehicles to be operated on
Airport property.

(4) Written proof of all business and/or motor vehicle permits and licenses
required by local, state, and federal regulations.

(5) Written proof to the County of all Gross Receipts at the time payment is due on
a form approved by the Director and accompanied by a stateme nt certified by
an officer of the company attesting to the accuracy of payments due the
County.

(6) Permittee shall be deemed an independent contractor and is not an agent or
employee of County with respect to its acts or omissions.

(7) Permittee shall defend (using legal counsel acceptable to County), indemnify
fully and save and hold harmless County, its officers, agents and employees,
boards and commissions from and against all losses, damages, claims,
liabilities, and causes of action of every kind and character and nature, as well
as costs and fees including reasonable attorney’s fees connected therewith, and
expenses of the investigations thereof, based upon or arising out of damages or
injures to third persons or their property caused wholly or in part by
Permittee’s operations or activities under any agreement.  County shall give to
Permittee prompt and reasonable notice of any such claims or action, and
Permittee shall have the right to investigate, compromise, and defend the same
to the extent of its own interest.

(8) Agreement to pay interest and delinquency charges at a rate established by
ordinance, on any amount not paid when due, which charge shall apply to
amounts determined to be due as a result of an audit pursuant to Section
238.03(b) (6) herein if such amount is not paid within fifteen days after written
notice from the County that such amount is due.

(c) The County is authorized to issue and publish additional rules and regulations to
implement Sections 238.01 to 238.99 and to include additional terms and conditions in
the permit form as deemed necessary by the County.

(Ord. No. 98-20. Passed 8-26-98; Ord. No. 2001-14; Passed 8-15-01 ; Ord. No. 2015-12.
Passed 10-07-15.)

238.04 (Ord. No. 98-20. Passed 8-26-98; RENUMBERED to Section 238.99, Ord. No.
2001-14. Passed 8-15-01.)

238.05 (Ord. No. 98-20. Passed 8-26-98; RENUMBERED to Section 238.98, Ord. No.
2001-14. Passed 8-15-01.)
99 Airport Department  238.06

238.06 MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS.

(a) Maintenance of Accounting Records. - The Permittee shall maintain adequate
accounting records in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,
generally accepted auditing standards and the requirements of its permit, for (1) all
transactions relevant to its permit (collectively, “Books and Records”); and (2) all
exclusions from Gross Receipts claimed by Permittee.  Permittee shall cause to be
installed on Permittee’s Operating Area, and shall at all times use, such cash registers,
invoicing machines, sales slips and other accounting equipment, devices and firms as are
reasonably necessary to record properly, accurately and completely all sales at the
Airport of Permittee’s Gross Receipts.  Permittee shall maintain during the term of its
permit and for three (3) years thereafter, all records and books of account or
computerized records recording all transactions for Permittee’s conduct under its permit.
All records and books of account shall be made available within the County at such
location as may be approved in writing by the Airport Director.  The records
requirements of this section shall also extend to any of Permittee’s subsidiaries, partners,
and joint ventures.

(b) Location of Records. - Permittee shall keep all original rental agreements, or
accurate copies  thereof, or contracts utilized by Permittee in the operation of the
concession granted to Permittee.  Said documents are to be kept by Permittee within the
County or in such other location as may be approved in writing by the Airport Director,
and shall be kept for a period of three (3) years from date of the closing of such rental
agreements.

(c) Books and Records. - Books and Records shall include analysis listing all of
Permittee’s operations at the Airport in form of printed, written or electronic media.  The
rental contract forms shall be sequentially numbered in a series designated for use only
with the permit granted to Permittee.  Books and Records shall also include, but is not
limited to:

(1) All original accounting source documents detailing transactions relevant to the
permit granted to Permittee (collectively, “Records”), including but not limited
to:

A. Original rental contracts.

B. Operating/financial statements.

C. A complete (cumulative) general ledger.

D. Monthly sales journals detailing each rental transaction for the month.

E. Reconciliations between the financial records and monthly reports
submitted to the Authority.
238.06 Airport Department  99A

F. Bank statements applicable to the operation of the permit granted to
Permittee.

G. Corporate trial balances.

H. Corporate contracts with corporate customers.

I. Annual audited financial statements and related reports on internal
controls (including management representation letters); and

J. Other sales related documents.

(2) All exclusions from Gross Receipts claimed by Permittee. For exclusions or
adjustments to Gross Receipts, the Records shall include, but are not limited to:

A. All agreements between Permittee and corporate or volume customers
establishing the customers’ rights to rebates;

B. Lists of all individual rental transactions with all corporate or volume
customers;

C. All individual rental agreements with all corporate or volume customers;
and any documentation or records supporting additional reductions to
Gross Receipts.

(d) Standard Forms. - Permittee shall provide, maintain, and use standard forms of
rental agreements, contracts or such other documents for accurately recording and
reflecting Gross Receipts (as defined in Section 1 hereof) chronologically and
sequentially from all rentals of automobiles transacted pursuant to the permit granted to
Permittee.

(e) Computer Records. - In those situations where Permittee’s records have been
generated from computerized data (whether mainframe, minicomputer, or PC- BASED
computer systems), Permittee shall provide to the County ’s representative with extracts
of data files in a computer readable format on data disks, E- mail with attached files or
suitable alternative computer data exchange formats.

(f) Cooperation by Permittee. - Permittee shall provide the name and telephone number
of Permittee’s accounting manager or the like who has a thorough knowledge of the
accounting system as it pertains to the permit granted to Permittee and who will assist the
County with its audit.  Permittee will also allow interviews of past and present employees
who were involved in the financial or operational activities of Permittee.

(Ord. No. 2001-14. Passed 8-15-01.)
99B Airport Department  238.98

238.07 INSPECTION AND AUDIT OF RECORDS.

(a) Permittee shall, during the term of its permit and a specified number of years
thereafter, upon reasonable notice to Permittee, allow inspections and audits by the
County, through its employees and/or representatives, of all records and books of
account, including such records as may be required by the County to be maintained by
the Permittee and information required to be maintained.  It is further understood and
agreed that Permittee shall make all of the aforesaid records, books of account, and other
documentation available at a location designated in writing by the County.

(b) If such Books and Records are maintained outside the County of Jackson and cannot
be provided locally, Permittee shall reimburse the County for expenses incurred in
sending representatives to wherever such records are maintained.  Such expenses will
include transportation, lodging, food and other out-of -pocket expenses resulting from the
necessity to leave the County of Jackson.

(c) In the event that any inspection or audit made by or on behalf of  the County
discloses any underpayment in any statement(s) of Gross Receipts of  the Permittee
and/or in the amount of any sums of money owed by the Permittee to the County, the
Permittee shall forthwith pay the sum of money owed to the County plus a monthly
service  charge in accordance with then current County Ordinance of said sum for each
month from the date said sum  should have been paid to the County to the date payment
is made to the County.   Further, in the event any of the aforesaid audit(s) or inspection(s)
discloses a single or cumulative underpayment of five percent (5%) or more which is
owed by the Permittee to the County, the Permittee, in addition to paying the sum owed
and service charge, shall forthwith pay to the County the cost(s) of the audit(s) and/or
inspection(s).

(Ord. No. 2001-14. Passed 8-15-01.)

238.98 SAVINGS CLAUSE.

In the event any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or paragraphs of Sections 238.01 to
238.99 is declared invalid for any reason, the remainder of the sentence, paragraph or
paragraphs of said sections shall not be thereby invalidated, but shall remain in full force
and effect, all parts being hereby declared separable and independent of all others.  In the
event that a judgment is entered, and all appeals exhausted, which judgment finds,
concludes or declares that requiring the Rental Car Businesses, Parking Lot Operators
and Flight Kitchen Operators to pay the Privilege Fee herein is unconstitutional or
otherwise invalid, Rental Car Business, Parking Lot Operators and Flight Kitchen
Operators shall pay equivalent to any Privilege Fee established by regulations issued by
the County pursuant to Sections 238.01 to 238.99.

(Ord. No. 98-20. Passed 8-26-98; Ord. No. 2001-14. Passed 8-15-01.)
238.99 Airport Department  99C

238.99 COUNTY VIOLATIONS.

Civil Sanctions: In the event a Permittee violates any term or condition of Sections
238.01 to 238.99 or of the permit granted pursuant to said sections, the County may, after
reasonable notice and hearing, suspend or terminate the rights granted pursuant to said
permit.  Furthermore, any person violating Sections 238.01 to 238.99 shall be guilty of a
County Code violation and upon conviction shall be punished as provided in Section
202.99 of the Codified Ordinances.

(Ord. No. 98-20. Passed 8-26-98; Ord. No. 2001-14. Passed 8-15-01.)

99D Airport Department  238.99
 Airport Department  99E

THIS PAGE RESERVED FOR EXPANSION.