________
CODIFIED ORDINANCES OF JACKSON COUNTY
TITLE EIGHT - Employment Provisions
Chap. 246 Officers and Employees Generally.
Chap. 247 Pension Plans.
CHAPTER 246
Officers and Employees Generally
EDITOR'S NOTE:  The Boar d of County Commissioners executes Agreements, from
time to time, with represen tatives of various classes of County employees, which
Agreements provide for compensation, benef its and various incide nts of employment.
The provisions of this chapte r, therefore, apply only to th ose employees and subjects not
otherwise provided for in such Agreements . The Board also execu tes Agreements, from
time to time, with a private carrier, which Agreements provide for deferred compensation
for County officers and employees. Copies of the latest relevant legislation and of such
Agreements may be obtained, at cost, from the office of the County Counsel.
246.01 Purposes.
246.02 Definitions.
246.03 Classification Plan.
246.04 Appointment Procedure.
246.05 Applications.
246.06 Existence of Budgeted Position or Approval of Board Required.
246.07 Rate of Pay.
246.08 Testing.
246.09 Physical Requirements.
246.10 Disqualification from Co nsideration for Employment.
246.11 Open Recru itment; Selection.
246.12 Referral of Applicants.
246.13 Personnel Files.
246.14 Compensation Plan.
246.15 Minimum Wage.
246.16 Overtime.
246.17 Compensation Adjustments.
246.18 Anniversary Dates.
246.19 Promotions.
246.20 Reclassifications.
246.21 Demotions.
246.22 Salary Schedules.
246.23 End-of-Probation Salary Increase.

112 Officers and Employees Generally
246.24 Pay Date.
246.25 Termination Pay.
246.26 Pay for Permanent Part-Time and Temporary Employees.
246.27 Leaves Generally.
246.28 Vacations.
246.29 Jury Service.
246.30 Voting Time.
246.31 Military and Peace Corps Leave.
246.32 Closure of Coun ty Facilities on Regularly Scheduled Work Days.
246.33 Inability to Report to Work.
246.34 Disability Leaves.
246.35 Funeral Plan.
246.36 Physician's Statement.
246.37 Notification of Supervisor.
246.38 Paid Absences; Workers' Compensation.
246.39 Unpaid Leaves.
246.40 Appearances before Courts, Committees, etc.
246.41 Hours of Work and Attendance.
246.42 Political Activity.
246.43 Nepotism.
246.44 Discipline and Di sciplinary Discharge.
246.45 Supervision of Department Directors.
246.46 Separation from Service.
246.47 Grievance Procedure.
246.48 Employee Representation.
246.49 Fringe Benefits.
246.50 Holidays for Sheriff's Department.
CROSS REFERENCES
Officers and employees generally - see CHTR. Ch. VI
Administrative officers - see CHTR. Sec. 18, 20; ADM. 216.06
Appointments - see Const. Art. VI, Sec. 7; ORS 204.601
Actions against County officers and employees; defense - see ORS 30.285
County officers - see ORS 204.005 et seq.
Compensation; civil service - see ORS 204.121
Fee disposition and accounting - see ORS 210.230
Interest in contracts - see ORS 279.990
Bonds generally - see ORS 742.354, 742.358, 742.360
Authority of County Administrator re personnel program - see ADM. 216.09
Pension plans - see ADM. Ch. 247

246.02 113Officers and Employees Generally
246.01 PURPOSES.
The purposes of this chapter are to establish a system of personne l administration based
on merit, fitness and systematic and equ itable principles governing appointment,
compensation, status, promotion, transfer , layoff, removal and di scipline of County
officers and employees and other considerati ons of County employment; to efficiently
and economically utilize manpower in County service; to ma intain a uniform plan of
classifications and compensation based upon  the relative key performance areas and
responsibilities of positions in the County serv ice; to develop and ma intain a program of
recruitment, training and promotion that will make a career in the County service
attractive; and to develop and maintain  a personnel system which complements
recognized collective bargaining agreements.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82.)
246.
02
DEFINITIONS.
As used in this chapter:
(a) Appointing Authority
 means the official authorized to appoint or remove
employees. This authority is re served for department heads, elected officials, appointed
boards authorized by State st atute, the Board of County Commissioners and the County
Administrator.
(b) Compensation Plan means a system which identifies th e pay range and steps for
each classification.
(c) Confidential Position means a position involving duties re lated to the fiscal or
personnel affairs of a depa rtment or to policy formul ation or management of a
department.
(d) County Administrative Officer means th e individual appointed by the Board of
County Commissioners to serv e as the administrator of this chapter and is used
synonymously with the term "County Administrator."
(e) Demotion means a movement of an employ ee from one classification to another
classification having a lower maximum salary range.
(f) Discharge means a termination initiated by the County.
(g) Discipline means the impositi on of sanctions, including reprimand, suspension as
defined in subsection 246.44(b) herein, or discharge.

114 246.02Officers and Employees Generally
(h) Employee means a person legally holding a position in the County service who
receives remuneration for serv ices performed for the Coun ty and is appointed to a
position within the County service.
(i) Exempt means a job classification for which occupants of a class are not eligible for
overtime pursuant to the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act.
(j) Hire Date means the effective date of appointment.
(k) Immediate Family means a relative of the employee, such as a mother, father, sister,
brother, spouse, child, stepchild or foster child. It also includes a grandparent, aunt, uncle,
niece or nephew living in the home of the employee.
(l) Job Description means a written description of a classification which sets forth the
title, a statement of duties or key perform ance areas, responsibilitie s and supervisory
authority, minimum requirements in terms of training and experience, required
knowledge, skills and abilities.
(m) Lead Worker means a nonsupervisory employee whose assignments include
managing the work process and flow of others. Lead workers do not have the authority to
appoint, terminate, evaluate or adjust grievances of subordinate employees.
(n) Managerial/Supervisory Position means an exempt position involving duties relating
to the management of the County's work force, including the authority to hire, fire, assign
work, discipline and evaluate  employees. An employee in such a position has the
responsibility for supervision and/or setting policy.
(o) Nonexempt means a job classification for wh ich occupants of the class are eligible
for overtime compensation pursuant to the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act.
(p) Open Recruitment means recruitment to fill a vacant position that is available to any
person and is not restricted by a labor agreement.
(q) Outside Employment means employment by any organization that  is not a regular
department or office of the County.
(r) Pay Range means the wage co mpensation for a given classification which states the
minimum and maximum rates payable for the classification.
(s) Permanent Full-Time means an employee or  position which is regularly scheduled
for not less than forty hours per week.
(t) Permanent Part-Time means an employee or position whic h is regularly scheduled
for less than forty hours per week.

246.03 115Officers and Employees Generally
(u) Position means the budgeted, approved slot which may be filled with an employee
to perform prescribed tasks. A position ma y be full-time or part-time. An employee
placed in a position may be permanent full-time or permanent part-time.
(v) Professional/Technical Employee means an employee in an exempt position,
without supervisory or management responsibility and/or authority
(w) Promotion means the movement of an empl oyee from one classification to another
classification having a higher maximum salary range.
(x) Reclassification means a change in the clas sification of an employee because of a
change in the responsibility and/or type of work assigned or the reorganization of
functions.
(y) Recruitment means the active search  for candidates which involves the
announcement of a vacancy and the accepta nce of applications by the County
Administrator.
(z) Resignation means a termination initiated by an employee.
(aa) Supervisory Personnel means those employees  of the County with the authority to
assign and review work of othe r employees and to appoint, pr omote, discipline, evaluate
or otherwise change the status of other employees.
(bb) Suspension means a temporary, involuntary removal of an employee from his or her
assigned duties.
(cc) Temporary/Casual Employee means any em ployee who is selected to be employed
1,040 hours or less in one year, who works less than sixteen hours per week or who does
not fill a regularly budgeted position.
(dd) Termination means a complete separati on from County employment resulting from
resignation, discharge, retirement, death, inab ility of the employee to work or any other
reason.
(ee) Termination Date means the effective date of  termination. Normally, this date is the
last day worked.
(ff) Transfer means the relocation of an empl oyee from one position to another position
of a similar level within the same department or between departments.
(Adopting Ordinance. Passed 12-10-85; E. Ord. 96-48. Passe d 9-18-96; P. Ord. 96-49.
Passed 10-2-96.)

116 246.03Officers and Employees Generally
246.03 CLASSI FICATION PLAN.
(a) Establishment. - The Board of County Commissioners shall annually adopt, in
conjunction with the adoption of  the County budget, a classification plan which groups
all permanent positions into classes ba sed upon their duties, authorities and
responsibilities. The classification plan shal l include the compensation range for each
position. The County Administrator shall maintain the classification plan.
(b) Amendments. - Amendments, additions an d deletions of positions in the plan,
following its annual ad option by the Board, shall be ma de by the County  Administrator.
Any appointing authority may request an am endment of the plan by first submitting the
following information to the County Administrator:
(1) A statement of the change within the department resulting in the request for a
change;
(2) A set of organizational charts, one depicting the de partment as presently
organized and one depicting the department with the proposed change;
(3) An updated description of duties for the new or reclassified position;
(4) Identification of budget line items involve d and a statement of the availability
of funds; and
(5) A statement of the total effect the reclassification would have on the
department.
(c) Changes to Job Descriptions. - Changes to job descriptions shall be implemented as
appropriate by the County Admi nistrator to ensure that ch anges are in keeping with
personnel policies, labor agreements, true  minimum qualifications  for the position and
consistency throughout the County.
(d) Content of Job Descriptions. - All job descriptions shall contain a general statement
of the duties and/or responsibilities of the position.

246.03 117Officers and Employees Generally
(e) Minimum Qualifications Statements. - Pe rsonal qualifications commonly required
of an employee in any class, such as good citizenship, honesty, loyalty, sobriety, industry,
amenability to supervision and suggestions of superiors for improvement of service, and
willingness to cooperate with associates, shall be implied as qualifications required for
entrance to every class, even though such traits may not be specifically mentioned in the
specifications. The desirable minimum qualifications enumerated in  a job description
shall relate to reasonable standards of experi ence and training required at the time of an
original appointment of a new employee and shall not be construed as representing or
measuring qualifications which an employe e already working in such a class may
actually possess. These minimum qualificati ons shall be used as the standard for
accepting or rejecting applications for va cant positions. However, incumbents are
expected to continually meet minimum qualifications in order to retain their positions. A
request for reclassification may be originated  by an employee or his or her supervisor.
Such request may be initiated if it is believe d that the existing classification does not
reasonably describe the duties and responsibilities of work actually being performed.
(f) Reclassifications. - A request for reclassi fication of an exis ting position shall be
submitted to the County Administrator and shall include the following information:
(1) If applicable, an explanation of why the request was not made during the
regular budget process;
(2) A statement concerning the circumstan ces that make a reclassification
necessary;
(3) A statement concerning the amount and source of funding for any increased
cost;
(4) A statement concerning the impact of the reclassification on the organization
of the department; and
(5) A specific list of the increased duties and/or responsibilities inherent in the new
position.
(Adopting Ordinance. Passed 12-10-85.)

118 246.06Officers and Employees Generally
246.04 APPOINTMENT PROCEDURE.
(a) Personnel Requisitions. - Vacancies are fi lled by submitting a personnel requisition
to the County Administrator stating the title and compensati on level of the position, the
reason for the vacancy and a statement of adequate funding.
(b) Approval. - An appointment to a temporary or permanent position within the County
service requires the approval of the Board of County Commissioners or its designee and
shall be submitted by means of a personnel action notice.
(c) Effective Date. - An appointment to a re gularly permanent budgeted position shall
become effective upon approval or an agreed upon effective date.
(d) Minimum Qualifications. - Unless speci al circumstances apply, no applicant
possessing less than the minimum qualifications as specified in the job description shall
be appointed to any permanent position with the County.
(e) Recruitment. - Unless otherwise agreed  upon by the County Administrator, all
vacant positions shall be filled by means of open recruitment.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82.)
246.05 APPLICATIONS.
(a) No person who has failed to file a proper application by  the filing deadline may be
appointed to any permanent position with the County. Re sumes may be accepted as
additional information regarding the applicant. However, all information requested on the
application shall also be submitted. Unsigned applications are subject to disqualification.
(b) The application, or a copy thereof, of any person appo inted to a permanent position
with the County shall be sent to the County Administrator to be kept on file.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82.)
246.06 EXISTENCE OF BUDGETED POSITION OR APPROVAL OF BOARD
REQUIRED.
An appointment to a perman ent position shall be made only when a bu dgeted position
within an existing job classifi cation exists or upon the approval of the Board of County
Commissioners.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82.)

246.10 119Officers and Employees Generally
246.07 RATE OF PAY.
An appointment at any level above Step 1 for nonmanagement employees or eighty
percent of the salary range for management employees shall include written justification
for the request of appointment at a higher rate of pay.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82.)
246.08 TESTING.
All selection devices, including specialized testing of applicants, must conform to
applicable Federal and State guidelines.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82.)
246.09 PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS.
An appointee to a permanen t position shall meet the mini mum physical requirements of
the position before the effective date of the appointment. No person declared to be less
than physically capable of performing the duties of the po sition shall be appointed.
Incumbents shall maintain a minimum level of  physical fitness in order to retain the
position.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82.)
246.10 DISQUALIFICATION FROM CONSIDERATION FOR
EMPLOYMENT.
A potential employee may be disqualified as an applicant for the following reasons:
(a) Failure to meet minimum qualifications for the applicable position as described on
the job announcement;
(b) Conviction of a crime which would seriously affect job performance in the specific
job for which the applicant is being considered;
(c) Incomplete application/resume , which, in the view of the County Ad ministrator,
does not include all required information; or
(d) False or misleading statements on the job application or resume.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82.)

120 246.12Officers and Employees Generally
246.11 OPEN RECRUI TMENT; SELECTION.
(a) All vacancies shall be filled by means of open recruitment, unless otherwise
specified. Open recruitment me ans an open period of time during which employees and
members of the public may apply for a vaca nt position. Selection will be based on an
applicant's relative qualifications as es tablished by the statement of minimum
qualifications.
(b) A potential applicant may compete for a j ob by submitting an application to the
County Administrator. Applicants will be screened and those meeting minimum
qualifications shall be forwarded to the requesting department fo r an interview and
selection. The County Administrator is the final authority in cases of disputed
appointments.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82.)
246.12 REFERRAL OF APPLICANTS.
(a) Upon completion of the recr uitment period for applican ts to fill a vacant position
within the County service, the County  Administrator or his or her designee shall review
the qualifications of the a pplicant for the position as stated on the appropriate job
description. As specified by the departme nt which has the vacancy, three to ten
applications for the position shall be referred to the department. Under no circumstances
shall any application be referred for further consideration if the applicant does not meet
or is not reasonably expected to meet the minimum qualifications for the position at the
time of appointment. The number of applican ts specified by the department shall not
exceed the number of interviews  anticipated by the de partment to be necessary to fill the
vacancy.
(b) If the applications forwarded to the department are unsatisfactory to the department,
recruitment procedures may be reinitiated, subject to the approval of the County
Administrator.
(c) As the result of approved testing procedur es or other circumstances, the County
Administrator may grant an exception to this section, enabling the department to receive
all applications of persons determined to  meet minimum qualifications. A request for
such an exception shall be in writing and shall state the result if the request is granted.
(Order 278-83. Passed 7-20-83; E.Ord. 2015-8. Passed 6-03-15; P.Ord. 2015-9. Passed 6-
17-15.)

246.16 121Officers and Employees Generally
246.13 PERSONNEL FILES.
A new employee shall have an official, public , personnel file located in the County
Administrator's office. The file shall cont ain all official records of appointment,
compensation, classification, discipline, et c. The file may be reviewed only by the
County Administrator, the employee, persons authorized in writing by the employee, the
employee's supervisor and such other persons authorized by the County Administrator.
(Adopting Ordinance. Passed 12-10-85.)
246.14 COMPENSATION PLAN.
A compensation plan stating pay ranges and levels within such ranges shall be
maintained by the County Admi nistrator. Amendments, additions or deletions shall be
made only by the Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82.)
246.15 MINIMUM WAGE.
No employee or officer of the County shall be compensated at a rate less than the Federal
minimum wage.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82.)
246.16  OVERTIME.
(a) Overtime for Employees Other Than Non- Exempt Certifiable Law Enforcement
Employees.
(1) Overtime for nonexempt empl oyees shall be at the ra te of one and one-half
times the regular rate of pay.
(2) Overtime shall be paid or compensatory time granted for any work in excess of
eight hours in any one day. However, onl y overtime shall be paid for all work
performed in excess of forty hours in any one week.
(3) Employees working a "4-10" work week c onsisting of four ten-hour days shall
be paid overtime or granted compensato ry time off for time worked in excess
of ten hours in any one day. However, only overtime shall be paid for work
performed in excess of forty hours in any one week.
(4) The County Administrator shall determine which pos itions in County service,
if any, are exempt. The decision of the County Administrator shall be final and
binding on the County.

122 246.17Officers and Employees Generally
(5) Except as provided in subsection (b ) hereof, for the purpose of overtime
calculations, the workweek  shall be 12:01 a.m. on Monday through 12:00
midnight the following Sunday.
(b) Overtime for Non-Exempt Certifiable Law Enforcement Employees.
(1) Employees who are uniformed members of  the Sheriff's Department, who are
non-exempt from overtime under state and federal law and who are certified by
the Department of Police Standards a nd Training as police or corrections
officers, shall be considered law enforcement officers for the purpose of
overtime compensation.
(2) Designated law enforcement who are subject to a collective bargaining
agreement shall be compensated for overtime in accordance with the collective
bargaining agreement.
(3) Designated law enforcement officers wh o are not subject to a collective
bargaining agreement shall be paid or compensatory time gr anted for overtime
for any work in excess of their regularly  scheduled work shift.  Overtime shall
be at the rate of one and one-half times the regular rate of pay.  Additionally,
designated law enforcement officers who are not subject to a collective
bargaining agreement who are required to work on a regularly scheduled day
off shall be compensated for a minimum of three hours overtime.
(c) Volunteers. Volunteers are not eligible fo r overtime, compensation or remuneration
of any kind, except for reimbursement of ac tual expenses, if such reimbursement is
consistent with an authorized agreement. Volunteers may not be employees of the County
"volunteering" additional service outside the ordinary work period. The volunteer service
must only be of a humanitarian or public service nature.
(Adopting Ord. Passed 12-10-85; Ord. 85-25. Passed 10-2-85; Ord. 2006-5. Passed 5-17-
06; E.Ord. 2011-4. Passed 2-16-11; P.Ord. 2011-5. Passed 3-16-11.)
246.17 COMPENSATION ADJUSTMENTS.
Compensation may be adjusted  following completion of a performance appraisal. An
appointing authority may, for an employee whose performance warrants a compensation
adjustment, either upward or downward, submit a personnel action to the County
Administrator requesting a salary adjustme nt. The appropriate performance appraisal
shall accompany the request for adjustment.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82.)

246.20 123Officers and Employees Generally
246.18 ANNIVERSARY DATES.
Anniversary dates are the first day in a give n month and are established for purposes of
compensation changes. Anniversary dates do not indicate completion of probation,
seniority or other matters of employment. An  employee beginning County service prior
to the sixteenth day of each month shall have  his or her annivers ary computed from the
first day of the given month. An employee beginning County servic e after the fifteenth
day of a given month shall have his or her anniversary date computed from the first day
of the following month.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82.)
246.19 PROMOTIONS.
(a) A promotion to a vacant budgeted position of a job classification with a higher pay
range is allowed only if the employee meets the minimum qualifications of the higher job
classification.
(b) A promotion shall not result in  a salary decrease for the employee, unless agreed to
by the employee.
(c) Anniversary dates shall be treated as they are for a reclassification.
(d) A promoted employee shall normally be placed at the first step of the new position.
Requests for appointment at a higher level require justification.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82.)
246.20 RECLASSIFICATIONS.
(a) A department shall submit the proper doc umentation to the County Administrator
and obtain approval before an employee's position is reclassified.
(b) If the reclassification results in no salary increase, the employee's anniversary date
will remain the same.
(c) If the reclassification results in a salary increase, the anniversary date shall be
changed to coincide with the effective date of the reclassification.
(d) If a downward reclassification results in a lower salary range, the employee shall be
paid in the new range at the salary level closest to the previously held position.

124 246.25Officers and Employees Generally
(e) No reclassification shall be made to a cl assification that has not been officially
approved.
(Adopting Ordinance. Passed 12-10-85.)
246.21 DEMOTIONS.
(a) A demotion may be voluntary or involuntary. A voluntary demotion shall not result
in a change of anniversary date, and a trial service period shall not be required.
(b) An involuntary demotion may occur as the re sult of discipline short of discharge or
as a result of inability to perfo rm satisfactorily after a promo tion. In either instance, the
employee's pay may be lowered. In no case shall an employee r eceive more than the
salary range for the position.
(Adopting Ordinance. Passed 12-10-85.)
246.22 SALARY SCHEDULES.
Salary schedules which reflect competitive pay for all positions, as defined by collective
bargaining, salary surveys, policy decisions and prudent ma nagement, shall be computed
and maintained by the County Administrator.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82.)
246.23 END-OF-PROBATION SALARY INCREASE.
An employee beginning probation at the first step is normally elig ible for an end-of -
probation increase after six months. The amount of the increase is nor mally five percent,
provided that proper documentation is forwarded with the request.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82.)
246.24 PAY DATE.
The pay date shall be set by the Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82.)
246.25 TERMINATION PAY.
(a) Unless specifically authorized by the County Administrator, no severance pay shall
be granted. Pay due on termination shall include any vacation pay credited to the
employee and overtime pay.
2026 Replacement

246.27 125Officers and Employees Generally
(b) An employee's termination date shall be th e last day worked. In no case shall the
termination date be advanced to include any paid leave accrued by the employee.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82; E. Ord. 2024- 3. Passed 6-5-24; P. Ord. 2024-2. Passed
6-26-24.)
246.26 PAY FOR PERMANENT PART-TIME AND TEMPORARY
EMPLOYEES.
All permanent part-time and temporary employees will be paid on an hourly basis.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82.)
246.27 LEAVES  GENERALLY.
(a) Categories. The following categories of leaves are hereby established:
(1) Paid leaves;
(2) Disability leaves; and
(3) Unpaid leaves.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82; RE PEALED E. Ord. 92-19. Pa ssed 12-23-92; P. Ord. 93-
1. Passed 1-6-93.)
(b) Authorization for Leave.
(1) Approval of leave is subject to the te rms and conditions of this section. The
employee shall ascertain that full authority for and approval of his or her leave
is granted prior to beginning any leave.
(2) Each appointing authority , upon submitting payroll data of his or her
department to the Finance Department, sh all indicate clearly and fully thereon
all leaves taken by employees of his or her department during the payroll
period.
(c) Computation.
(1) A paid leave shall be computed on the basis of allowing not more than eight
hours (5/8) or ten hours (4/10) of regul ar pay for any calendar work day that
involves paid leave. (For example, even though an employee might spend more
than eight hours on jury duty on a calendar work day, the pay for that day shall
be limited to eight hours of regular pay, less the amount of money received for
jury duty that day.)
2026 Replacement

126 246.27Officers and Employees Generally
(2) A paid leave shall be com puted solely on the basis of normal work days and
shall not exceed compen sation for more than five days in any seven
consecutive days (five days times eight  hours equals forty hours maximum).
(For example, no payment will be made for regularly assigned days off, such
as weekends, even though the employee mi ght be cloistered w ith a jury for an
indefinite number of days.)
(3) A nonpaid leave shall be computed on the basis of actual calendar days
involved. (For example, a thirty-day nonpaid leave effective 12:01 a.m., June
1, would terminate at 12:00 midnight, June 30.)
(d) Continuous Service. - For purposes of computing an employee's leave credits,
continuous service is considered as the mo st recently paid County service unbroken by
separation for any reason other than military leave, Peace Co rps duty, absence subject to
Workers' Compensation and/or authorized paid  leaves. Except as provided elsewhere in
this chapter, unpaid leave shall constitute a period in which the employee does not accrue
seniority credits or vacation, sick or holiday leave and is not eligible for County payment
of insurance premiums. However, an employ ee who returns to work  upon the expiration
of an authorized unpaid leave and/or who is  recalled to work from a layoff is entitled to
any unused credit for continuous service immedi ately prior to such unpaid leave and/or
layoff.
(e) Scheduling; Transfers; Termination Pay.
(1) Scheduling vacation. Each appointing auth ority shall establish staff schedules
to provide vacation leave for employee s and employees shall take vacation
leave at the time scheduled. Such schedules may be amended by the appointing
authority to meet work emergencies or to grant requests of individual
employees. Consideration will be given to the desires of individual employees
within limits of work requirements of the division.
(2) Transfer credits and termination vaca tion pay. When an employee of any
County department is tran sferred to or appointed to another department, their
vacation and sick leave credit shall be assumed by the new appointing
authority. An employee who has served fo r at least six cons ecutive months, or
is otherwise entitled to accrual and use of credited vacation time in accordance
with JCC 246.28(d), sha ll be entitled to cash co mpensation for accrued
vacation leave. In case of death, compensation for earned  accrued vacation
leave shall be paid in the same manner that salary due to the decedent is paid.
(f) Other Leaves. - Any request for a leave of  absence (paid or unpaid) not covered
elsewhere in this chapter shall be submitted to the department director for approval. Upon
approval of the department director, the request for leave shall be submitted to the
County Administrator for final approval prior to the granting of such leave.
2026 Replacement

246.29 127Officers and Employees Generally
(g) Failure to Return from Leave. - Any em ployee who has been granted a leave of
absence and who, for any reason, fails to return to work at the expiration of such leave of
absence, shall be considered as having resigned his or her position with the County. Such
position shall thereupon be declared vacated, except and unle ss evidence is provided that
the employee is unable to return  to work by reason of sickne ss, physical disability or any
other legitimate reason beyond his or her control.
(h) Absence without Leave. - An absence of an employee from duty, including any
absence for a single day or part of a day, wh ich is not authorized by a specific grant or
leave of absence under this chapter, shall be deemed to be an absence without leave. Any
such absence shall be without  pay and may subject the empl oyee to disciplinary action,
including discharge.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82; E. Ord. 2024- 3. Passed 6-5-24; P. Ord. 2024-2. Passed
6-26-24.)
246.28 VACATIONS.
(a) Vacation accrual rates are determined by  collective bargaini ng agreements and
management fringe benefit policies. In no in stance is a temporary or casual employee
eligible for paid vacation.
(b) In all cases, vacation time is credited to an individual's accoun t in an amount equal
to the annual accrual divided by twelve months.
(c) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (d), an employ ee who has not served for
at least six complete months in  the paid employ of the Coun ty shall not be credited with
accrued paid vacation leave until the completion of six months of service.
(d) Notwithstanding paragraph (c), the County  Administrator may authorize that an
employee, who is also a retired member of the Oregon Public Employees Retirement
System (PERS), may begin to be credited with their accrued paid vacation leave
beginning on their hire date.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82; E. Ord. 2024- 3. Passed 6-5-24; P. Ord. 2024-2. Passed
6-26-24.)
246.29 JURY SERVICE.
An employee may be granted leave with pay at  the regular rate any time he or she is
required to report for jury servic e, provided that the salary paid to the employee for the
period of absence is reduced by the amount of m oney he or she received for such jury
service.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82.)
2026 Replacement

128 246.33Officers and Employees Generally
246.30 VOTING TIME.
An employee shall be granted up to two hours for the expre ss purpose of voting in any
election conducted under the auspices of the County Clerk, if, due so lely to scheduling of
work, he or she would otherwise not be able to vote.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82.)
246.31 MILITARY AND PEACE CORPS LEAVE.
(a) Military and Peace Corps leave shall be gran ted in accordance with requirements of
Oregon Revised Statutes.
(b) An employee may utilize fifteen calendar days per year without loss of pay or use of
vacation for military service.
(c) An employee shall notify his or  her supervisor of military duty, in writing, as soon
as it becomes available to the employee.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82.)
246.32 CLOSURE OF  COUNTY FACILITIES ON REGULARLY
SCHEDULED WORK DAYS.
If a County facility is closed on a regularl y scheduled work day,  an employee who is
scheduled to work that day shall receive pay equal to the amount of time he or she was
scheduled to work. Such pay will not be credited against vacation or sick leave.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82.)
246.33 INABILITY TO REPORT TO WORK.
An employee who is unable to work for a reason beyond his or  her control, for a reason
other than sickness, when County facilities are open for bus iness, shall have deducted
from his or her pay an amount equal to the amo unt of hours lost in his or her work day or
may use vacation leave in an am ount equal to the hours lost in the work day. Sick leave
may not be used in such instances.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82.)

246.35 129Officers and Employees Generally
246.34 DISABILITY LEAVES.
(a) Short Term. - For the purpose of short-term disabilities, including pregnancy, sick
leave is provided at a rate of accrual as ordered by the Board of County Commissioners.
(b) Long Term . - A regular full-time employee is  eligible to participate in long-term
disability programs as specified by the Board.
(c) Approval; Conditions. - Leave granted for reasons of in ability to work, including
pregnancy, shall be approved in the same manner as regular sick leave, provided that:
(1) The period of absence, if any, prior to and immediately following disability
shall be authorized only upon recei pt of a written statement from the
employee's physician indicating the approximate length of the absence which is
medically necessary.
(2) Other complications of the disability sh all require a written statement from the
employee's physician prior to the granting of any additional leave of absence.
(3) A leave of absence shall be granted wh en complications occur with a newborn
child that necessitate the constant care  of the mother. A written statement from
the employee's physician stating the nece ssity and duration of such leave time
requested shall be obtained. Other extens ions of leave that are simply for the
convenience of the mother will not be  granted unless substantial medical
evidence warrants the same.
(4) Retention of employee benefits during le aves of absence are subject to the
application of rules pertaining to regular sick leave.
(Adopting Ordinance. Passed 12-10-85.)
246.35 FUNERAL PLAN.
In the event of a death in the immediate fam ily of an employee, the employee may take
not more than five days sick leave with pa y to make funeral arra ngements, if necessary,
and to attend the funeral. A written statement providing details may be required from an
employee, at the option of the department he ad or the County Admi nistrator, where such
leave is taken.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82.)

130 246.39Officers and Employees Generally
246.36 PHYSICIAN'S STATEMENT.
A physician's statement of the nature and identity of an illness and the need for the
employee's absence of over five days may be required prior to payment of any sick leave
benefit.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82.)
246.37 NOTIFICATION OF SUPERVISOR.
Any employee who is ill and unable to report to work shall, if reasonably possible, notify
his or her immediate supervisor not later th an thirty minutes after his or her normal
reporting time. In the case of a continuing illness, the employee shall continue to notify
his or her immediate supervisor of his or her inability to report to work.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82.)
246.38 PAID ABSENCES; WORKERS' COMPENSATION.
Employees who are absent because of an on-the -job illness or injury covered by workers'
compensation shall be compensa ted according to the workers'  compensation laws of the
State of Oregon. Any additional compensation shall be paid in accordance with the
applicable collective bargaining  agreement, or, in the absence of a collective bargaining
agreement, by administrative policy.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82; E. Ord. 89-5.  Passed 5-24-89; P. Or d. 89-6. Passed 6-7-
89.)
246.39 UNPAID LEAVES.
(a) Generally. - A position need not be held open for an employee on an unpaid leave of
absence. However, when a leave has expired a nd the employee is elig ible to return to
work, the County will place the employee in the next available position, within the
department, for which the employee is qualified.
(b) Temporary Interruption of Employment. - Any temporary, involuntary interruption
of employment because of adverse weather conditions, shortage of supplies or other
unexpected or unusual reasons, which does not exceed ten days, is not considered a
layoff, and at the termination of such conditions, employ ees shall be returned to
employment. Such interruptions of employmen t may be chargeable to accrued vacation
leave or may be recorded as leave without pay.

246.41 131Officers and Employees Generally
(c) Sick Leave Without Pay. - Upon application, sick leave without pay may be granted.
The County Administrator may require that the employee submit medical evidence of the
need for such leave. If the em ployee fails or refuses to su pply such evidence, or if
medical disability precludes the employee fro m the performance of duties, such sick
leave shall be canceled and the employee's services shall be term inated. Sick leave
without pay in excess of sixt y days shall not be granted,  unless and until the employee
has first been scheduled for any accrued vacation.
(d) Other Leaves of Absence. - In instances where the wo rk will not be seriously
handicapped by the temporar y absence of an employee, the appointing authority may
grant a leave of absence, w ithout pay, not to exceed si xty calendar days. Leaves of
absence without pay for period s in excess of sixty days may be approved only by the
Board of County Commissioners via the Coun ty Administrator. A request for such a
leave shall be in writing and shall establis h all particulars. Such leave will not be
approved for an employee who is accepti ng employment outside the County service,
except in those cases where the Board judges it to be in the best interest of the residents
of the County.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82.)
246.40 APPEARANCES BEFORE  COURTS, COMMITTEES, ETC.
In reference to appearances at hearings before a court, legislative committee or judicial or
quasijudicial body, such appearances shall be considered leave with full pay only if the
appearance is the result of County employment and approved by the County.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82.)
246.41 HOURS OF WORK AND ATTENDANCE.
(a) Open Hours. - Generally, County facilitie s are open 8:00 a.m. through 5:00 p.m.,
Monday through Friday. Some facilities, due to  the nature of their operation, may be
open longer. Full-time employees are normally expected to work five consecutive eight-
hour days in one week or f our ten-hour days. The 5/8 and 4/10 work weeks are approved
work schedules.
(b) Building Security. - Individual department  heads are responsible for authorizing
persons for after-hours building access. The County Administrator is responsible for
issuing keys to employees. (Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82.)

132 246.43Officers and Employees Generally
(c) Attendance. - Each employee shall remain alert and fully capable of carrying out job
functions throughout the assigned shift. Add itionally, employees whose ability to carry
out job responsibilities is affected by their use of alcohol or drugs shall be subject to
disciplinary action.
(Order 168-84. Passed 5-23-84.)
246.42 POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
(a) Generally. - Political activity among County employees and officers is governed by
Federal and State legislation. Generally, no County officer or employee shall solicit any
money, influence, service or other thing of value or otherwise aid or promote any
political committee or the nominati on or election of an y person to public office while on
the job or during working hours. However, nothing in this section is intended to restrict
the right of a public employee to express his or her personal political views.
(b) Federally Funded Positions. - An employee whose job is wholly or partially aided
by Federal funds may run for political office , even when gained through a partisan
election, and may also take an active ro le in political mana gement and political
campaigns. An employee in this category may not become a candidate for an elective
office in a partisan election.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82.)
246.43 NEPOTISM.
(a) Generally. - Pursuant to Oregon Revi sed Statutes, no person shall be refused
employment or terminated so lely because another member of such person's family
presently works for the County.
(b) Exceptions. - A person may be refused employment or his or her employment may
be discontinued if continuation of such employment would:
(1) Violate a law of the State or the Un ited States, or any rule promulgated
pursuant thereto, with which the County must comply;
(2) Cause a violation of any co ndition of eligibility for receipt of Federal or State
financial assistance;
(3) Place the individual in a position of ex ercising supervisory, appointment or
grievance adjustment authority over a member of the individual's family, or in
a position of being subject to such auth ority exercised by a member of the
individual's family; or

246.44 133Officers and Employees Generally
(4) Cause the County to disregard a bona fide occupational requirement reasonably
necessary to the normal operation of County business.
(c) Family Members Defined. - For purposes of this section, a member of an
individual's family means the wife, husband,  son, daughter, mother, father, brother,
brother-in-law, sister, sister-in-law, mother-i n-law, father-in-law, aunt, uncle, niece,
nephew, stepparent or stepchild of the individual.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82.)
246.44 DISCIPLINE AND DISCIPLINARY DISCHARGE.
(a) Generally. - In general, the County prescr ibes that discipline and discharge be
handled in a progressive manner. The County prescribes that discipline and disciplinary
discharge shall be done in a fair and equ itable manner so that di sciplinary actions are
applied equally. However, there may be occas ions when progressive discipline is not
appropriate, such as in actions which substantially endanger public safety, which result or
could result in damage to pub lic persons or property or which constitute a serious breach
of the public trust. Any disciplinary action appropriate to the offense shall be imposed.
(b) Progressive Discipline. - If used, the steps of progressive discipline and discharge
include:
(1) Oral reprimand;
(2) Written reprimand;
(3) Suspension without pay only under the following circumstances:
A. for violations of safety rules of major significance, or
B. in one-week increments for violati ons which warrant serious discipline;
and
(4) Discharge.
(c) Safety rules of major significance are t hose that are intended to prevent serious
danger to the workplace or to other employees.
(d) Documentation. - In all steps, documenta tion shall be kept. Do cumentation includes
copies of materials used in discipline, notes of discussions and pertinent dates. Improper
documentation or lack of it may reverse disciplinary action.

134 246.45Officers and Employees Generally
(e) Procedure. - Disciplinary action which may include discharge shall be conducted in
the following manner:
(1) The employee shall be notified that hi s or her supervisor is considering
disciplinary action against him or her, which may include discharge.
(2) A predetermination hearing shall be set fo r the employee and the supervisor to
discuss charges. The hearing is also fo r the purpose of allowing the employee
to explain his or her side of the pr oblem. At the predetermination hearing
stage, no decision about which disciplinary action shall be taken shall be made.
(3) After the hearing, the appropriate cour se of action shall be determined. If
discharge is the decision, then the employee must be notified, in writing, of the
date of termination and the just cause for such discipline.
(4) The employee shall be provided with th e option of a post termination hearing
or action through a recognized grievance procedure.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82.)
(f) Review of Disciplinary Ac tions. - Any disciplinary ac tion taken by a supervisor,
department director or elected official that  involves either susp ension as defined in
Section 246.44(b), or discharge, shall be re viewed by the County Administrator or his or
her designee. Upon delivery of  a written reprimand, the appr opriate department director
or elected official shall forward a copy of such discipline, including explanatory
documents or memorandums, to the County Administrator or his or her designee.
Department directors or elected officials c onsidering suspension as defined in Section
246.44(b), discharge or another form of di scipline shall first consult with the County
Administrator or his or her de signee. The purpose of this s ection is to ensure uniform
administration of discipline throughout the County.
(Order 340-83. Passed 8-24-83; E. Ord. 96-48. Passed 9-18-96; P. Ord. 96-49. Passed 10-
2-96.)
246.45 SUPERVISION OF DEPARTMENT DIRECTORS.
As outlined in 216.06, Administrative Officers are subject of the authority of the County
Administrator. The County Administrator is  hereby authorized to perform all normal
supervisory functions, including appointment,  discharge, compensation adjustment and
discipline.
(Order 364-83. Passed 9-14-83; Ord. 2010-5. Passed 6-9-10.)

246.47 135Officers and Employees Generally
246.46 SEPARATION FROM SERVICE.
(a) In Good Standing. - An employee may be  separated in good standing from the
County service if he or she meets one of the following criteria:
(1) Reduction in Force - An employee laid off due to lack of funds,
discontinuation of a program or position or  lack of work shall be considered
separated in good standing.
(2) Resignation - An employee who resigns a position and gives two weeks’ notice
shall be considered separated in good standing.
(b) Not in Good Standing. - An employee shall be considered termin ated not in good
standing if he or she meets one of the following criteria:
(1) An employee who resigns a position in lieu of being terminated or who fails to
give proper notice shall be considered terminated not in good standing.
(2) An employee who is dismissed as a result of a disciplinary termination shall be
considered terminated not in good standing.
(c) Personnel Action Notices. A personnel action notice c oncerning termination must
state the reason for the termination.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82.)
246.47 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
(a) Generally. - It is the policy of the Count y to ensure its officers and employees,
through the use of a formalized procedure,  a method and proce dure whereby they may
have their complaints consider ed as fairly and as rapidly as possible, without fear of
reprisal.
(b) Grievance Defined. - A grievance is a dis pute arising between an employee and his
or her supervisor resulting from an alleged vi olation of a specific policy, procedure or
disciplinary action. An employee who has acce ss to a grievance procedure as a result of
being represented by a collective bargai ning organization may utilize the grievance
procedure set forth in this section or the bargaining agreement procedure, but not both.
(c) Statement of Grievance. - Any grievance filed as prescribed in this section shall state
the nature of the grievance, the specific policy or procedure violated and the remedy
requested.

136 246.47Officers and Employees Generally
(d) Procedure. - An employee or offer may have  a representative of his or her choosing
present the complaint and/or represent him or  her in the proceedings through the steps
described as follows:
(1) Step 1. Immediate Supervisor - Within  thirty days of the occurrence, the
grievant may discuss the matter with th e immediate supervisor. The supervisor
shall render a decision, in writing, within ten days of the discussion.
(2) Step 2. Next Highest Supervisor  - If the decision reached by the immediate
supervisor is not of a disposition whic h is satisfactory to the employee, the
grievant may appeal, in writing, to the ne xt highest supervisor within ten days
of receipt of the decision. The next hi ghest supervisor shall render a decision,
in writing, within ten days of the receipt of the grievant's appeal.
(3) Step 3. Department Head - If the decision of the next highest supervisor is not
of a disposition which is satisfactory to the employee, the grievant may present
the grievance to the department head w ithin ten days of the receipt of the
supervisor's response in Step 2. The department head must render a decision, in
writing, within ten days of the receipt of the grievant's appeal.
(4) Step 4. County Administrator - If the de cision of the depart ment head is not
satisfactory, the employee may appeal, in writing, within ten days of the
receipt of the department head's decision, to the County Administrator. The
County Administrator shall hear the case and render a decision within ten days
of the receipt of the appeal. The decision of the County Administrator is
considered final and binding.
(e) Departments Headed by Elected Officials. - In the case of a department which is
headed by an elected official or a member of the Board of County Commissioners, Step 3
shall apply to the elected official or member of the Board.
(f) Other Rights. - The grievance procedure set forth in this section does not waive an
officer's or employee's right to have a case  heard through court procedures or other
administrative bodies, such as the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
(g) Time Frames. - Any of the time frames set fo rth in this section may be extended, in
writing, by mutual agreement of the parties.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82.)

246.50 Officers and Employees Generally 136A
246.48 EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATION.
In general, an employee may elect to be  represented by an employee organization
according to applicable State statutes and the County Charter.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82.)
246.49 FRINGE BENEFITS.
(a) Maintenance of Programs. - All fringe be nefit programs shall be maintained by the
County Administrator or the appropriate  bargaining unit as specified by labor
agreements. The information, booklets, contr acts, etc., shall be housed in the County
Administrator's office. Changes in fringe be nefit programs may be made only through
collective bargaining or a policy set by the Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 82-36. Passed 12-22-82.)
(b) Accrual. - All fringe benefits for persons regularly schedul ed to work less than forty
hours per week shall be calculated as follows:
(1) To receive benefits, an employee must be paid for at least eighty hours per
month. Paid time may be the result of scheduled work, holidays, paid vacation
and paid sick leave.
(2) Benefits shall be paid on a prorated basis, based on the actual number of hours
paid divided into the actual number of  hours available for work in a given
month. As an example, an employee who is paid for 136 hours in a month for
which there are 168 hours available would receive eighty-one percent of
benefits paid (136  168 = 81%).
(3) For the purpose of this section, fringe  benefits include all County paid
insurance programs, holidays, vacation accrual and sick leave calculations.
(Order 328-84. Passed 9-12-84.)
246.50 HOLIDAYS FOR SH ERIFF'S DEPARTMENT.
(a) Management employees in the Sheriff's Depa rtment shall be credited with thirteen
holidays for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2023, and in each fiscal year thereafter.
(b) Holiday leave shall be requ ested at the option of the employee, subject to the
approval of the Sheriff.
(c) Holiday credits shall not be carried over from one fiscal year to another. If unused,
earned holiday credits shall terminate at the end of the fiscal year.
2024 Replacement

136B Officers and Employees Generally 246.50
(d) Upon separation of employment, the employee shall be eligible for compensation for
unused holiday credits in propo rtion to the number  of months of employment within the
fiscal year, i.e. if a manager completes six months of employment within a fiscal year and
has used four days of holiday credit, the em ployee shall be compensated for 2.5 holidays.
Utilization in excess of the holiday pay earned at the time of separation shall be deducted
from the employee's final paycheck.
(Order 196-83. Passed 6-1-83; Ord. 2023-7. Passed 12-27-23.)
2024 Replacement