ORD. 45.2  Adopt February 16, 1984
ORD. 45.6  Art. 10.006   Repealed April 3, 1986
 Art. 10  Repealed August 15, 1990
ORD. 45.17 Updated Full KCLDC Adopt August 15, 1990
ORD. 45.18  Art. 1 to Art. 10 Adopt April 3 1991
 10-1
CHAPTER 10
GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 10
ENACTMENT
10.010 - TITLE
This code shall be known as the Klamath County Land Development Code.
10.020 - PURPOSE
The purpose of the Land Development Code is to coordinate Klamath County
regulations governing the use and development of land, and more specifically:
A. To implement the Klamath County Comprehensive Plan and to guide and
manage the future growth of the County in accordance with that plan;
B. To promote and protect the public health, safety, and general we lfare of
the citizens of Klamath County;
C. To regulate land use in a manner that will encourage and support the
orderly development and beneficial use of lands within the County; and
D. To assist the public in identifying and understanding regulations aff ecting
the development and use of specific parcels of land.
10.030 - AUTHORITY
The Land Development Code is enacted pursuant to Oregon Revised Statutes,
Chapter 215.
10.040 - RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER CODES AND ORDINANCES
The Land Development Code, as codified  herein, also shall be referenced as
Division 3 of the Klamath County code and may be cited as such.  Unless
otherwise specified, references and citations as used in  this code shall refer to
the Klamath County Land Development Code.
10.050 - REPLACEMENT OF OTHER ORDINANCES
The Klamath County Land Development Code replaces all previously enacted
zoning ordinances and subdivision ordinances of Klamath County.

ORD. 45.2  Adopt February 16, 1984
ORD. 45.6  Art. 10.006   Repealed April 3, 1986
 Art. 10  Repealed August 15, 1990
ORD. 45.17 Updated Full KCLDC Adopt August 15, 1990
ORD. 45.18  Art. 1 to Art. 10 Adopt April 3 1991
 10-2
10.060 – REPEALER
Klamath County Ordinances Numbers 45.2 through 45.16 are repealed in their
entirety.  All actions taken under any previously enacted Klamath County zoning
ordinance or subdivision ordinance shall  remain in effect subject to the original
conditions of approval.
10.070 - SEVERABILITY
If any provisions or portions of this code, or the application thereof to any
property or person is held  invalid, the remainder of the code and the application
of such provisions to other persons or lands shall not be affected.
ORD. 45.2 Adopted February 16, 1984 Repealed April 3, 1986
ORD. 45.6  Art. 11.002 Amend April 3, 1986 Repealed March 26, 1987
ORD. 45.9  Art. 11.002 Amend March 26, 1987 Repealed August 15, 1990
ORD. 45.17 Updated Full KCLDC Adopted August 15, 1990
ORD. 45.20  Art. 446.003(20)(a) to Art. 11
 Amend June 5, 1991
ORD. 45.23 Amend June 5, 1991
ORD. 45.24 Amend October 9, 1991
ORD. 45.27 Amend April 8, 1992 Repealed February 15, 1995
ORD. 45.31 Adopted February 15, 1995
ORD. 45.34 Amend May 24, 1996
ORD. 45.35 Amend September 22, 1997
ORD. 45.36 Amend November 10, 1998
ORD. 45.36(B) Amend December 8, 1998
ORD. 45.36(C) Amend February 11, 1999
ORD. 45.38 Amend January 31, 2002
ORD. 45.41 Amend January 31, 2002
ORD. 45.44 Amend January 31, 2002
ORD. 45.68 Art. 11  Amend April 18, 2008  Acknowledged May 12, 2008
ORD. 45.92 Adopted January 30, 2012
ORD. 44.99 Adopt May 27, 2014
ORD. 45.84 Adopted March 31, 2015
ORD. 45.88 Adopted April 25, 2017
ORD. 45.92 Adopted August 6, 2018
11-1

ARTICLE 11
DEFINITIONS
11.010 - PURPOSE
The purpose of this article is to define the terms and phrases of this code that are
technical, specialized, or may not reflect common usage.
11.020 - DEFINITIONS INCLUDED BY REFERENCE
In addition to the definitions in this article, the following are incorporated by
reference.  If any  definition in this code conflicts with a definition included by
reference, the definition of state  statute shall prevail except where this code is
more restrictive .  Where inconsistencies are  found between definitions in this
section and definitions in other sections, definitions in this section shall prevail.
A. Oregon Revised Statutes Chapter 197
- Comprehensive Plan Coordination; Planning Districts
B. Oregon Revised Statutes Chapter 215
- County Planning; Zoning; Housing Codes
C. Oregon Revised Statutes Chapter 92
- Subdivisions and Partitions
11.030 - TERMS DEFINED ACCEPTED FARM PRACTICE:
A mode of operation that is common to farms of a similar nature, necessary for the
operation of such farms to obtain a profit in money, and customarily utilized in
conjunction with farm use.

11-2
ACCEPTED FARMING PRACTICE:
A mode of operation that is common to farms of a similar nature, necessary for the
operation of such farms to obtain a profit in money, and customarily utilized in
conjunction with farm use. As applied to composting operations on high -value
farmland, “accepted farming practice” includes composting operations tha t either
1) compost only materials produced on the subject tract, or 2) compost materials
brought from off -site and processed alone or in conjunction with materials
generated on the subject tract, and use all on-site generated compost for on-farm
production in conjunction with, and auxiliary to, the farm use on the subject tract.
ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE:
Any portable, demountable or permanent structure or building, the use of which is
incidental and subordinate to that of the main building, but which is located on the
same lot or parcel as the principal use or building.  A manufactured dwelling may
not be converted to an  accessory building or use within the Urban Growth
Boundary. When approved, the owner must file a restrictive covenant in the deed
records of the County agreeing that the accessory building or structure will not be
used as a residence or rental unit.
(a) "Accessory Building" means an accessory building as defined in ORS
446.003(1) and specifically includes, but is not limited to; caban as,
ramadas, storage sheds and garages.
(b) "Accessory Structure" means an accessory structure as defined in ORS
446.003(1) and specifically includes, but is not limited to; awnings, carports,
decks, steps and ramps.
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT:
An interior, attached, or detached residential structure that is used in connection
with, or that is accessory to, a single-family dwelling.
ACCESSWAY:
The place or way by which pedestrians or vehicles shall have adequate, safe and
practical ingress and egress to or from a property, use or parking space .  See
PROOF OF LEGAL ACCESS.

ACCESS:
The right to cross between public and private property allowing pedestrians and
vehicles to enter and leave property.
ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES:
Consulting, record keeping, clerical or other similar services that deal directly with
the public, together with incidental storage and the maintenance of necessary
equipment and vehicles.  Typical uses include government administrative buildings
and post offices and substations.

11-3
AGRICULTURAL BUILDING:
Any structure that is considered to be an “agricultural building” as defined in ORS
455.315 on a lot or parcel that is enrolled in a farm or forest deferral program with
the County Assessor and for which the owner 1) submits a signed floor pla n
showing that only farm- or forest-related uses will occupy the building space and
2) files a restrictive covenant in the deed records of the county agreeing that the
agricultural building will not be used as a residence or rental unit.
AGRICULTURE LAND:
Lands classified by the U.S.  Soil Conservation Service as predominantly (51% or
more) Class I-IV soils, lands in other soil classifications that are suitable for farm
use as defined in ORS 215.203(2)(a), taking into account soil fertility, suitability for
grazing, climatic  conditions, existing and future availability of water for farm
irrigation purposes, existing land  use patterns, technological and energy inputs
required, and accepted farming practices; and land that is necessary to permit farm
practices to be undertaken on adjacent or nearby  agricultural lands.  Agricultural
land does not include land within acknowledged exception  areas for goals 3 and
4.
AGRICULTURAL PACKING AND PROCESSING:
The commercial packaging and processing of agricultural crops, animals, and their
byproducts.  Packing and procession operations are not limited to agricultural
commodities grown on premises or in the immediate area .  Typical uses include
grain and fruit processing facilities, potato processing plants, canneries, slaughter
and packinghouses.
AGRICULTURAL SUPPLIES AND SERVICES:
Establishments where more than fifty percent of business is directed to wholesale
and retail trade and incidental storage of agricultural products and services such
as feed, fertilizers, seed, irrigation and small equipment.  Typical uses include feed
and grain stores.
AGRICULTURAL WASTE PROCESSING:
Facilities and operations primarily engaged in the collection, processing, reuse,
and/or disposal of agricultural animal waste or similar by -products of agricultural
operations such as animal parts, tallow, manure, or crop residue.
AGRI-TOURISM:
A common, fee based and farm -dependent activity that is incidental and
subordinate to a working farm and that promotes successful agriculture and
generates supplemental income for the owner. Such uses may include hay rides,
corn mazes and other similar uses that are directly related to on -site agriculture.
Any assembly of persons shall be for the purpose of taking part in agriculturally -
based activities such  as animal or crop care, tasting farm products or learning
about farm or ranch operations. Agri -tourism may include farm -to-plate meals.
Except for small, farm-themed parties, regularly occurring celebratory gatherings,
weddings, parties or similar uses are not Agri-tourism.
11-4
AIRPORT ELEVATION:
The highest point of an airport's usable landing area measured in feet above mean
sea level.
AIRPORT HAZARD:
Any structure or object of natural growth located on or in the vicinity of a public
airport, or any use of land near such airport, which obstructs the airspace required
for the flight of aircraft in landing or takeoff at such airport or is otherwise hazardous
to such landing or takeoff of aircraft.
AISLE:
An access way to required vehicular parking spaces within a parking lot.
ANIMAL COMPANION:
Animals that are typically kept for non-consumptive and non-commercial purposes.
Examples include dogs, cats, pygmy goats, potbelly pigs and small birds such as
parrots.  For such animals only a total of four may be kept at one time per property
except for cats and birds where a total of eight are allowed.
ANIMAL, LARGE:
Cattle, horses, sheep, goats, pigs, emus, ostrich, llamas and bison of any age,
raised and kept for primarily personal purposes.
ANIMAL, SMALL:
Rabbits, chickens, ducks, geese or other fowl and similar animals raised and kept
for personal consumptive purposes.  "Small animal" does not include dogs or cats
kept for personal companion purposes.
ANIMAL, SPECIALTY:
Any game mammal, fur -bearing mammal or game bird as defined by ORS
496.004, or any exotic, non-native, or potentially dangerous animal raised and kept
for primarily personal purposes.
ARCHAEOLOGICAL RESOURCES:
Those districts, sites, buildings, structures and artifacts which possess material
evidence of human life and culture of the prehistoric and historic past.
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE:
Openwork fences, open -air grills, decorative façade, which may or may not be
attached to the main building, and may project therefrom .  This does not include
patios.
AREA:
That area of a lot, parcel, unit of land or tract, exclusive of:
(a) Public alleys, highways or roads, or
(b) Proposed public facilities such as alleys, highways, roads or other
necessary public  sites when included within a proposed development
project.
11-5
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING:
A designated AO, AH, or VO zone on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) with a one percent or greater annual chance of flooding to an average
depth of one to three feet, where a clearly defined channel does not exist,  where
the path of flooding is unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident.  Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The land in the Flood Plain within a community subject to a one percent or greater
chance of flooding in any given year .  Designation on FIRM maps always include
the letters A or V.
ARTERIAL STREET:
Streets, which bring traffic to and from freeways, serve major movements of traffic
within or through urban areas, and which serve important rural routes.
ASSOCIATED TRANSMISSION LINES:
Transmission lines constructed to connect an energy facility to the first point of
junction with either a power distribution system or an interconnected primary
transmission system or both or to the Northwest Power Grid.
AUTO AND LIGHT EQUIPMENT SALES/RENTALS/SERVICE:
Establishments for the wholesale and retail sale, lease, rental, service, and
incidental storage of automobiles, light -duty noncommercial trucks, motorcycle,
boats, recreational vehicles, and noncommercial trailers.  Typical uses include car
dealerships, car rental agencies, and recreation vehicle sales and service.
AUTO REPAIRS:
Repair of automobiles, light-duty noncommercial trucks, motorcycles, recreational
vehicles, and the sale, installation a nd servicing of automobile equipment and
parts.  Typical uses include auto body repairs and painting, service garages,
muffler shops, auto glass shops, and tire, battery and accessory stores.
AUTO SERVICE STATION:
Establishments or places of business prima rily engaged in the retail sale of
petroleum products along with the incidental sale of tires, batteries, replacement
items, grocery/convenience items, and the provision of minor repair services .
Typical uses include automobile filling or service stations.
AUTO WRECKING YARD:
Property where motor vehicles or parts thereof, are maintained outdoors in an
unlicensed, uninsured, wrecked, dismantled, and/or disassembled condition.  Auto
wrecking yard shall not include the incidental storage of inoperable or dis abled
vehicles in conjunction with the operation of an auto or equipment repair service
or fleet storage  yard.  Auto wrecking yards must be licensed by the State
Department of Motor Vehicles.

11-6
AUXILIARY:
A use or alteration of a structure or land which pro vides help or is directly
associated with the conduct of the primary use of the property.  An auxiliary use or
structure is located on-site, is temporary in nature, and is to be removed when a
particular practice or function has been completed.
BASE FLOOD:
The flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given
year.  Designation on FIRM maps always includes the letters A or V.
BASEMENT:
That portion of a building between floor and ceiling which is partly below and partly
above grade, but so located that the vertical distance from grade to the floor below
is less than the vertical distance from grade to ceiling.  For floodplain management
purposes, means an area of the building having its floor sub-grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
BED AND BREAKFAST:
Uses and facilities accessory and subordinate to residential dwellings that provide
traveler room and board for a fee on a daily or weekly room rental basis .  Each
such facility shall not accommodate more than ten travelers at any one time, nor
shall a party's length of stay exceed fourteen consecutive days.
BUILDING AND GARDEN SALES:
Retail sales directed to contractors and home owners offering materials and
supplies for construction and home improvement such as lumber and hard ware
supplies, fixtures,  garden supplies and nursery stock .  Typical uses include
lumberyards, plumbing and electrical stores, paint and hardware stores, and plant
nurseries.
BUILDING HEIGHT:
The vertical distance from the grade plane to the average height of the highest roof
surface.  For the purpose of determining the height limits of all airport hazard zones
set forth in the Land Development Code and shown on the Airport Hazard Zoning
Map, the datum shall be mean sea level elevation unless otherwise specified.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE:
The minimum distance required between the property line of a lot or parcel of land
and any point of the vertical wall of a building or structure, exclusive of those
architectural features permitted to extend into yards or open spaces.
CAMPGROUND:
Generally, an area of land or water maintained, intended, or used for the purpose
of supplying temporary or overnight living accommodations for public or private
use, by  providing designated areas for the placement of trailers, tents,  yurts,
buses, automobiles or  sleeping bags, recreational vehicles, or other types of
shelter and may include buildings to  provide services to the patrons, such as,
11-7
restrooms, bathing, laundry, and commissary  facilities.  Campgrounds may be
either public or private.
CAMPGROUND ACCESSORIES:
Any portable, demountable or permanent structure or building, located within a
public or  private campground, intended for use by visitors and employees .
Campground accessories  include, but are not limited to, restrooms, laundry,
bathing and sanitation facilities, picnic  shelters, play areas and structures, and
other amenities or support facilities.
CAMPING:
The occupancy of private property within a tent, tent -trailer, shelter, vehicle, or
recreation vehicle not within an authorized/designated camping facility.
CARPORT:
A stationary structure consisting of a roof with its supports and not more than one
wall or storage cabinet substituting for a wall, used for sheltering a motor vehicle.
CEMETERY:
Land used or intended to b e used for the burial or internment of the dead and
dedicated for cemetery purposes .  Cemetery includes columbarium, crematories
and mausoleums  and may include mortuaries and chapels when operated in
conjunction with and within the boundary of such cemetery.
CHURCH:
Facilities for public religious assembly such as customarily occurs in churches,
synagogues and temples, but does not include parochial schools.
CLASS I STREAMS:
Waters which, are significant for domestic use, angling, water dependent
recreation or the spawning, rearing or migration of game fish, and includes the
water itself, any vegetation, aquatic life, habitats, and the beds and banks below
the normal high water  level which may contain water, whether or not water is
actually present.
COLLECTOR STREET:
Streets which serve internal traffic movement within an area such as a subdivision,
and connect to arterial streets.
COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY IN CONJUNCTION WITH FARM USE:
The processing, packaging, treatment and wholesale distribution, and storage of
a product primarily derived from farm activities in the local agricultural community.
Also, retail sales of products, supplies and services to the agricultural community
that support the production and harvesting of agricultural products.
COMMERCIAL AGRICULTURAL ENTERPRISE:
Consists of farm operations which will contribute in a substantial way to the area's
existing agricultural economy, help maintain agricultural processors and
11-8
established farm markets, not only what is produced, but how much and how it is
marketed shall be considered.
COMMERCIAL DAIRY FARM:
A commercial dairy farm is a dairy operation that owns a sufficient number of
producing diary animals capable of earning the gross annual income required by
this Article/Chapter from the sale of fluid milk.
COMMERCIAL POWER GENERATING FACILITY:
A facility for the production of energy and its related or supporting facilities that:
(a) Generates energy using means listed in ORS or OAR such as solar power,
wind power, fuel cells, hydroelectric power, the rmal power, geothermal
power, landfill gas, digester gas, waste, dedicated energy crops available
on a renewable basis or low -emission, nontoxic biomass based on solid
organic fuels from wood, forest  or field residues but not including the
production of b iofuel as authorized by ORS 215.203(2)(b)(K) in all zones
that allow “Farm Use” and 215.283(1)(r) and 215.283(2)(a) in the EFU zone;
(b) Is intended to provide energy for sale; and
(c) Does not include a net metering project established consistent with ORS
757.300 and OAR chapter 860, division 39 or a Feed -in-Tariff project
established consistent with ORS 757.365 and OAR chapter 860, division
84.
COMMERCIAL STABLE:
Commercial operations for the boarding, breeding, raising and training of horses
or llamas, but does not include an animal defined or classified as a specialty
animal.
COMMERCIAL TREE SPECIES:
Trees recognized for commercial production under rules adopted by the State
Board of Forestry pursuant to ORS 527.715.
COMMON AREA:
An area (which may or may not meet the minimum lot/parcel size) that is created
on a subdivision, partition or condominium plat for the sole purpose as stated in
the declaration.
COMMUNITY ASSEMBLY:
Recreational, social, fraternal multipurpose facilities or buildings owned an d
operated by a governmental agency or nonprofit community organization.
COMMUNITY PARK:
Uses and facilities for public recreation within a neighborhood or community
setting.

11-9
COMPATIBLE:
Capable of existing harmoniously, in agreement, or that which can be  mixed
without seriously interfering with another activity or use.
CONDOMINIUM:
An estate in real estate property consisting of an individual interest in common in
a portion of real property together with a separate interest in space for residential,
commercial, industrial or other purposes.  A condominium may include, in addition,
a separate interest in other portions of such real property.
CONTIGUOUS:
Connected in such a manner as to form a single block of land.
CREATION DATE:
The recordation date of a do cument that creates a lot(s) or parcel(s), or the date
of execution of an unrecorded land sale contract, deed, or other instrument
intended to create new lots or parcels.  In resource zones, when a lot, parcel, unit
of land or tract is reconfigured pursuant to applicable law after November 4, 1993,
the effect being to  qualify a lot, parcel or tract for the dwelling site, the date of
reconfiguration is the date of creation.
CUBIC FOOT PER ACRE:
The average annual increase in cubic foot volume of wood fiber p er acre for fully
stocked stands at the culmination of mean annual increment as reported by the
USDA Natural Resource Conservation Service (NRCS) soil survey.
CUBIC FOOT PER TRACT PER YEAR:
The average annual increase in cubic foot volume of wood fiber per tract for fully
stocked stands at the culmination of mean annual increment as reported by the
USDA Natural Resource Conservation Service (NRCS) soil survey.
CUL-DE-SAC:
A short street with one end open to traffic and terminated at the other end by a
vehicle turnaround.
CULTURAL SERVICES:
Governmental or nonprofit facilities for the preservation and exhibition of objects
of permanent interest in one or more of the arts, sciences or humanities .  Typical
uses include exhibition halls, galleries, museums, and libraries.
CULTURED CHRISTMAS TREE:
Means trees: (a) Grown on lands used exclusively for that purpose, capable of
preparation by intensive cultivation methods such as plowing or turning over the
soil; (b) Of a species for which the Department of Revenue  requires a "Report of
Christmas Trees Harvested" for purposes of ad valorem taxation; (c) Managed to
produce trees  meeting U.S .  No.  2 or better standards for Christmas trees as
specified by the  Agriculture Marketing Services of the United States Departm ent
of Agriculture; and (d) Evidencing of periodic maintenance of practices of sheering
11-10
for Douglas fir and pine  species, weed and brush control and one or more of the
following practices: Basal  pruning, fertilizing, insect and disease control, stump
culture, soil cultivation, irrigation.
CURRENT EMPLOYMENT FOR FARM USE:
(A) Farmland, the operation or use of which is subject to any farm -related
government program; (B) Land lying fallow for one year as a normal and regular
requirement of good agricultural husbandry; (C) Land planted in orchards or other
perennial, other than land specified in subparagraph (D) of this paragraph, prior to
maturity; (D) Land not in an  exclusive farm use zone which has not been eligible
for assessment at special farm use  value in the year prior to planting the current
crop and has been planted in orchards,  cultured Christmas trees or vineyards for
at least three years; (E) Wasteland in an exclusive farm use zone, dry or covered
with water, neither economically tillable nor  grazeable, lying in or adjacent to and
in common ownership with a farm use land and  which is not currently being used
for any economic farm use; (F) Land under buildings  supporting accepted farm
practices; (G) Water impoundment’s lying in or adjacent to  and in c ommon
ownership with farm use land; (H) Any land constituting a wood-lot, not to exceed
20 acres, contiguous to and owned by the owner of land specifically valued at true
cash value for farm use even if the land constituting the wood -lot is not utilized in
conjunction with farm use; (I) Land lying idle for no more than one year where the
absence of farming activity is due to the illness of the farmer or member of the
farmers immediate family.  For purposes of this paragraph, illness includes injury
or infirmity whether or not such injury results in death; and (J) Any land described
under ORS 32.267(l)(3).
CUSTOM MANUFACTURING:
Establishments and uses primarily engaged in on -site production of goods
involving hand tools and minor mechanical means, with incide ntal direct sales of
products produced on-site to members of the general public.
DATE OF CREATION AND EXISTENCE:
When a lot, parcel or tract is reconfigured pursuant to applicable law after
November 4, 1993, the effect of which is to qualify a lot, parcel or tract for the siting
of a dwelling, the  date of the reconfiguration is the date of creation or existence .
Reconfiguration means any change in the boundary of the lot, parcel or tract.
DESTINATION RESORT:
A self-contained development that provides for visitor-oriented accommodations
and developed recreational facilities in a setting with high natural amenities .
Destination Resorts must meet the minimum statutory standards of development,
as provided in ORS 197.435-467.
DEVELOP:
To bring about growth or availability, to construct or alter a structure, to conduct a
mining operation, to make a physical change in the use or appearance of land, to
divide land into parcels, or to create or terminate rights to access.
11-11
DEVELOPMENT:
Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including wetlands,
riparian areas and open waters, including but not limited to buildings or other
structures mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving excavation or drilling
operations or storage of equipment or materials.
DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
Any approval required under this code for the purpose of developing property,
including but not limited to site plan approval, temporary use permit, conditional
use permit,  partition or subdivision approval, planned unit development, fi nal
development permit for a destination resort, or mobile home park approval.
DISCRETE LOT OR PARCEL:
A unit of land lawfully created by a subdivision or partition plat which established
the lot or parcel as a separate or individual unit of land from other contiguous units
of land in the same ownership.
DISPOSAL SITE:
Land and facilities used for the disposal, handling, or transfer of, or resource
recovery from solid waste, including but not limited to dumps, landfills, sludge
lagoons, sludge  treatment facilities, disposal sites for septic tank pumping or
cesspool cleaning service,  transfer stations, resource recovery facilities,
incinerators for solid waste delivered by public or by a solid waste collection service
and composting plants; the term does n ot include a facility subject to the permit
requirements of ORS 468.740; a landfill site which is used by the owner or person
in control of the premises to dispose of soil, rock,  concrete, or other similar non -
decomposable material unless the site is used by the  public either directly or
through a solid waste collection service; or a site licensed  pursuant to ORS
481.345.
DUST SENSITIVE USE:
Real property normally used as a residence, school, church, hospital or similar
use.  Property used in industrial or agricultural activities is not "dust sensitive"
unless it meets the above criteria in more than an incidental manner.
DUPLEX:
Residential uses involving two attached, common wall dwelling units for ownership,
lease or rental on the same lot or parcel.  This does not include a single -family
dwelling and an accessory dwelling unit that meets the standards of Article 89.
DWELLING:
A building, combination of buildings, or portions thereof, designed or used for
human occupancy for residential purposes.
DWELLING UNIT:
A single unit providing complete, independent living facilities for one or more
persons, including permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and
sanitation purposes.
11-12
EASEMENT:
A grant of the right to use a portion of land for specific purposes.
EASTERN OREGON:
That portion of the state lying east of a line beginning at the intersection of the
northern boundary of the State of Oregon and the western boundary of Wasco
County, thence  south along the western boundaries of the counties of W asco,
Jefferson, Deschutes and  Klamath to the southern boundary of the State of
Oregon.
EMERGENCY SERVICES:
Facilities and services, which are devoted to public health and safety, including but
not limited to fire houses and police stations.
ENHANCEMENT:
An action which, results in a long -term improvement of existing functional
characteristics and processes that are not the result of a creation or restoration
action.
ENTERTAINMENT FACILITIES:
Establishments or places primarily engaged in the indoor provision of cultural,
entertainment or other events to spectators such as theaters or concert halls, and
excluding those types of entertainment related facilities classified as extensive
impact use types.
EQUINE FACILITY:
A building located on a farm which is used by the farm owner or the public for
stabling or training equines, for riding lessons, or for training clinics .  "Equine
facility" does not  mean a dwelling, or a structure in which more than 10 persons
are present at any one time.
ESEE:
This a cronym means the "economic, social, environmental and energy
consequences" as defined in OAR 660 -l6-005, that might result from prohibiting,
restricting, or fully  allowing a "conflicting" use .  A conflicting use is one which,
negatively impact or be negatively impacted by the Goal 5 resource.
ESSENTIAL SERVICES:
Facilities and services which are necessary and accessory to the principle land
use or development, and involve infrastructure such as pipelines, power lines and
poles, distribution feeders, meter b oxes and pump -houses.  Essential services
may include, but  are not limited to water, sewer, natural gas, cable and electric
power service, and certain transportation improvements, as specified in Section
50.040.A.
EXPLORATION:
For mining purposes, includes  all activities conducted on or beneath the surface
of the earth for the purpose of determining the presence, location, extent, grade or
11-13
economic viability of a deposit .  "Exploration" does not include prospecting or
chemical processing of minerals.
EXPLOSIVE AND HAZARDOUS MATERIAL STORAGE:
Storage of any quantity of materials possessing an explosive, corrosive, noxious,
toxic nature that represents potential danger to the public unless dealt with in a
qualified, professional manner.
EXTENSIVE IMPACT SERVICES AND UTILITIES:
Any public or private facilities, services and utilities which may have a substantial
impact on surrounding land uses .  Typical uses include, but are not limited to:
airports, detention  and correction institutions, fairgrounds, disposal s ites,
incinerators, commercial power generating facilities, sports arenas and stadiums,
outdoor theaters and amphitheaters,  vehicular raceways, electrical transmission
towers over 200 feet in height, commercial communication towers, recycle centers,
natural gas or petroleum transmission  pipelines, and certain transportation
improvements, as specified in Section 50.040.B.
FAMILY:
An individual or two or more persons related by blood, marriage or law; or a group
of not more than five persons (excluding servan ts) who need not be related by
blood or marriage living together in a dwelling unit.
FARM:
As used in this code, "farm" is defined as land used for the primary purpose of
raising, harvesting and selling of crops or by the feeding, breeding, management
and sale of, or produce of, livestock, poultry, fur-bearing animals or honeybees or
for dairying and the sale of dairy products or any other agricultural or horticultural
use of animal husbandry or any combination thereof.
FARMWORKER HOUSING:
Housing limited t o occupancy by farmworkers and their immediate families, no
dwelling unit of which is occupied by a relative of the owner or operator of the
farmworker housing.
FARM EQUIPMENT SALES/RENTAL/SERVICES:
Establishments for the wholesale and retail sale, lease, rental, service, and
incidental storage of farm and agricultural equipment .  Typical uses include farm
implement and equipment dealers.
FARM OPERATOR:
A person who operates a farm, doing the work and making the day -to-day
decisions about such things as planting, harvesting, feeding and marketing.
FARM OR RANCH OPERATION:
All lots or parcels of land in the same ownership that are used by the farm or ranch
operator for farm use as defined in ORS 215.203.

11-14
FARM STAND STRUCTURE:
A structure that is designed and used for the sale of farm crops and livestock as
provided in Article 54. A food stand is considered to be a farm stand structure.
FARM UNIT:
A single farm unit may consist of any number of contiguous parcels or tax lots,
including parcels or tax lots separated only by a road or highway, which are
managed jointly as a single farm unit in a given area.
FARM USE:
As defined in ORS 215.203. As used in the definition of "farm use" in ORS 215.203
and in this ordinance:
(a) “Preparation” of products or by -products includes but is not limited to the
 cleaning, treatment, sorting, or packaging of the products or by -products;
 and
(b) “Products or by -products raised on such land” means that those products
 or by -products are ra ised on the farm operation where the preparation
 occurs or on other farm land provided the preparation is occurring only on
 land being used for the primary purpose of obtaining a profit in money
 from the farm use of the land.
FINAL DECISION:
The date wh en the final written order for a decision reached under procedures
prescribed by this code is mailed to affected or interested persons.
FLEET STORAGE:
The temporary storage of operable motor vehicles for the purpose of regular
business operations such as b us or delivery truck parking, heavy equipment
storage yards, or for operations such as private tow-away and impound lots.
FLOOD OR FLOODING:
A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally
dry land areas from: (l) The overflow of inland or tidal waters; (2) The unusual and
rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any source; (3) Mud - slides
(i.e. mudflows) which are proximately caused by flooding as defined above and
are akin to a  river of liquid and flowing mud on  the surfaces of normally dry land
areas, as when earth is carried by a current of water and deposited along the path
of the current.
FLOOD FRINGE:
The area of the floodplain lying outside of the floodway, but subject to periodic
inundation from flooding.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM):
The official map on which the Federal Insurance Administration has delineated
both the areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to
the community.
11-15
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY:
The official report provided by the Federal Insurance Administration that includes
flood profiles, the Flood Boundary-Floodway Map, and the water surface elevation
of the base flood.
FLOOD PLAIN OR FLOOD-PRONE AREA:
Means any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any source.
FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT:
Means the operation of an overall program of corrective and preventative
measures for  reducing flood damage, including but not limited to emergency
preparedness plans, flood control works and land development codes.
FLOOD PROOFING:
Means any combination of structural and non -structural additions, changes or
adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or
improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their contents.
FLOODWAY:
The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must
be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing
the water surface elevation more than one foot.
FLOOR AREA:
The total horizontal a rea of all floors of a building measured from the exterior
surface of the outside walls including all floors below ground level.
FOOD AND BEVERAGE SALES:
Retail sales of groceries, beverages and household items .  Typical uses include
grocery stores, convenience stores, and bakeries.
FOOD AND BEVERAGE SERVICE:
Establishments or places of business primarily engaged in the sale of prepared
food and beverages for on -premise consumption .  Typical uses include
restaurants, cafes,  fast food outlets including drive -through or drive -in
establishments, and taverns.
FOREST LANDS:
As defined in Goal 4, are those lands acknowledged as forest lands, or, in the case
of a plan amendment. Forest lands shall include:
(a) Lands that are suitable for commercial forest uses, in cluding adjacent or
 nearby lands which are necessary to permit forest operations or practices;
 and
(b) Other forested land that maintain soil, air, water, and fish and wildlife
 resources.

11-16
FOREST OPERATION:
Any commercial activity relating to the growing or harvesting of any forest tree
species as defined in ORS 527.620(6).
FOREST PRACTICE:
Any operation conducted on or pertaining to forest land, including but not limited
to reforestation of forest land, roa d construction and maintenance, harvesting of
forest tree species, application of chemicals, and the disposal of slash.
FOREST USE:
The employment of land for the production of trees and the processing of forest
products; for open space, buffers from noise , and visual separation of conflicting
uses; watershed protection and wildlife and fisheries habitat; soil protection from
wind and water; maintenance of clean air and water; outdoor recreational activities
and related support services and wilderness value s compatible with these uses;
and grazing land for livestock.
FREEWAY:
A highway devoted to traffic movement with little or no land service function .
Freeways are characterized by some degree of access control with few, if any,
intersections at grade.
GARAGE:
Any building, with not less than 3 enclosed sides, which is used or intended to be
used for automobile shelter or storage .  When fronting on a dedicated street or
alley, such building shall have a door or doors.
GENERAL MANUFACTURING:
Establishments, operations and uses engaged in the manufacturing,
compounding, processing, assembling, packaging, treatment or fabrication of
materials.
GENERAL MERCHANDISE SALES:
Large-scale establishments engaged in retail sales of a variety of home and
personal items.  Typical uses include department stores, variety stores, discount
department stores, and showroom/catalog stores.
GEOTHERMAL RESOURCE:
The natural heat of the earth, the energy, in whatever form, below the surface of
the earth present in, resulting from, or created by, or which may be extracted from,
the natural heat, and all minerals in solution or other products obtained from
naturally heated fluids, brines, associated gasses, and steam, in whatever form,
found below the surface of the earth, exclusive of helium or of oil, hydrocarbon gas
or other hydrocarbon substances.
GROUND LEVEL:
The average level of the finished ground surface surrounding a building, measured
at the center of all walls of the building.
11-17
GOLF COURSE:
An area of land with highly maintained natural turf laid out for the game of golf with
a series of nine or more holes, each including a tee, a fairway, a putting green, and
often one or more natural or artificial hazards. A "golf course" for purposes of this
ordinance means a nine or 18 h ole regulation golf course or a combination nine
and 18 hole regulation golf course consistent with the following:
(a) A regulation 18 hole golf course is generally characterized by a site of
about 120 to 150 acres of land, has a playable distance of 5,00 0 to 7,200
yards, and a par of 64 to 73 strokes;
(b) A regulation nine hole golf course is generally characterized by a site of
about 65 to 90 acres of land, has a playable distance of 2,500 to 3,600
yards, and a par of 32 to 36 strokes;
(c) Non-regulation golf courses are not allowed. "Non -regulation golf course"
means a golf course or golf course -like development that does not meet
the definition of golf course in this Subsection, including but not limited to
executive golf courses, Par three golf courses, pitch and putt golf courses,
miniature golf courses and driving ranges.
GUEST RANCH:
A facility for overnight lodging incidental and accessory to an existing livestock
operation that qualifies as a farm use under ORS 215.203 .  Guest ranch facilities
may include a lodge, bunkhouse or cottage accommodations as well as passive
recreational activities and food services.
HEAVY EQUIPMENT REPAIRS:
Repair of motor vehicles such as aircraft, heavy-duty and commercial trucks, and
construction equipment, as well as the sale, installation, and servicing of
equipment and parts together with body repairs.  Typical uses include truck repair
shops or motor freight maintenance operations.
HEAVY EQUIPMENT SALES/RENTALS/SERVICE:
Establishments for the wholesale and retail  sale, lease, rental, service, and
incidental storage of heavy and commercial trucks, heavy construction equipment
and aircraft.   Typical uses include truck sales dealers or heavy construction
equipment dealers.
HEAVY INDUSTRIAL:
Establishments, operations and uses engaged in the primary manufacturing and
processing of raw materials and which may produce and omit objectionable odors
or noises.  Typical uses include sawmills, pulp and paper mills, concrete or asphalt
batch plants, or steel and metal fabrication.
HIGH-VALUE FARMLAND:
 (a) High Value Farmland: Land in a tract composed predominantly of soils that
are:
(1) Irrigated and classified prime, unique, Class I or II; or
11-18
(2) Not irrigated and classified prime, unique, Class I or II.
(b) In addition to that land described in Subsection X.02 U(1), high -value
farmland includes tracts growing specified perennials as demonstrated by
the most recent aerial photography of the Agricultural Stabilization and
Conservation Service of the U.S. Depart ment of Agriculture taken prior to
November 4, 1993. "Specified perennials" means perennials grown for
market or research purposes including, but not limited to, nursery stock,
berries, fruits, nuts, Christmas trees, or vineyards, but not including seed
crops, hay, pasture or alfalfa;
HISTORICAL RESOURCES:
Those districts, sites, buildings, structures and artifacts, which have a relationship
to events or conditions of the human past.
HISTORIC SITE:
A location, structure or object having local, regional, s tatewide or national historic
significance as indicated in the Klamath County Comprehensive Plan.
HOME DAY CARE:
A State-licensed facility that provides care to more than twelve children in the home
of the day care provider, including a day nursery, nurser y school, or similar
operation, but not including facilities primarily for education or training in a specific
subject such as  athletics, dance, drama, music or religion; or a facility that is
operated by a school district or governmental agency.
HOME FURNISHINGS AND APPLIANCES:
Retail establishments engaged in the sale of home furnishings such as furniture
and appliances, floor coverings, fireplaces, and spas.
HOME OCCUPATION:
Home occupation refers to an occupation or enterprise carried on within a dwelling
or accessory building for the financial gain by a member of the immediate family
residing within the dwelling.  The occupation must be ACCESSORY to the primary
use of the  home as a residence.   Typical home occupations are professional
services or crafts such as dressmaking, tutoring, music lessons, etc .  Accessory
uses shall not require internal or external modifications to the dwelling or accessory
building or require the use of machinery, tools or equipment not associated with
residential use.
HOSPITAL:
An institution providing physical or mental health services, inpatient or overnight
accommodations, and medical or surgical care of the sick or injured.
HOTEL/MOTEL:
Lodging services involving the provision of room and/or board on the premises.

11-19
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE:
A surface composed of any material that impedes or prevents natural infiltration of
water into the soil. Impervious surfaces shall include but are not limited to roofs,
solid decks, driveways, patios, sidewalks, parking areas and tennis courts.
Swimming pools are exempt since they do not increase runoff.
IMPROVEMENTS:
Physical facilities and infrastructure, including but not limited to curbs, gutters,
sidewalks, street lights, street signs, roadbed, road surface, storm drains and
appurtenances, fire hydrants, sanitary sewers and appurtenances, and
underground utilities.
INDOOR SPORTS AND RECREATION:
Establishments or places primarily engaged in the provision of sports or recreation
by and for participants; spectators are typically incidental and on a nonrecurring
basis.  Typical uses include bowling alleys, ska ting rinks, firearm and archery
ranges, sports and racket clubs.
IRRIGATED:
Watered by artificial or controlled means such as sprinklers, furrows, ditches or
spreader dikes . An area or tract is "irrigated" if it is currently watered, or has
established rights to use water for irrigation, including such tracts that receive
water for irrigation  from a water or irrigation district or other provider . For the
purposes of this Chapter, an area  or tract within a water or irrigation district that
was once irrigated shall continue to be considered "irrigated" even if the irrigation
water was removed or transferred to another tract.
KENNEL:
A lot or building in which four or more dogs, cats, pot -bellied pigs or other small
animals (excluding livestock) at least four months of age are kept commercially for
board, breeding, training or sale.
LANDSCAPING:
The planning and maintenance of some combination of trees, shrubs, vines,
ground covers, flowers or lawns . In addition, the combination or design may
include natural features such as rock and stone and structural features, including
but not limited to fountains, reflecting-pools, artworks, screens, walls, fences and
benches.
LAND USE DECISION:
A decision or determination that concerns the adoption, amendment or application
of the Statewide Planning Goals, a Comprehensive Plan provision or a Land
Development Code provision.  "Land Use Decision" does not include a decision or
determination made under land use standards that do not require judgment, or a
decision or determination on a subdivision or land partition located within an urban
growth boundary where the decision is consistent with clear and object standards,
or a decision on a building permit  which does not require interpretation or the
exercise of factual, policy or legal judgment.
11-20
LARGE ANIMAL VETERINARY SERVICES:
Professional services primarily engaged in treating large animals such as cattle,
horses, sheep, goats, pigs and llamas in connection with farm operations.
LAWFUL CREATION:
Any building, structure, use, lot, parcel, tract, or unit of land that complied with land
use laws or regulations in effect at the time of its creation or establishment.
LAWFULLY ESTABLISHED UNIT OF LAND:
A lot or parcel created pursuant to ORS 92.010; or another unit of land created in
compliance with all applicable planning, zoning and subdivision or partition
ordinances or regulations in effect at the time of creation; or by deed or land sales
contract, if there  were no applicable planning, zoning or subdivision or partition
ordinances in effect at the time of creation.  "Lawfully established unit of land" does
not include a unit of land  created solely to establish a separate tax account for
assessment purposes.
LIVING HISTORY MUSEUM:
A facility designed to depict and interpret everyday life and culture of some specific
historic period using authentic buildings, tools, equipment and people to simulate
past activities and events.
LOCAL STREET:
Streets which, provide access to individual adjacent lots, and connect to a collector
street.
LOT:
A single unit of land that is created by a subdivision of land  as provided in ORS
92.010.
LOT AREA:
The total area included within the lot lines of a lot or parcel of land.
LOT, CORNER:
A lot or parcel of land situated at the intersection of 2 or more streets and/or
highways, which streets or highways have an angle of intersection, measured
within said lot or parcel of land, of not more than 135 degrees.
LOT DEPTH:
The distance between the midpoints of the front and rear lot lines.
LOT, FLAG:
A unit of land whose main body is connected to a street, road, or easement with
access to a street or road by a narrow strip of land.

11-21
LOT LINE, FRONT:
The lot line separating the lot from the street or in the case of a corner lot, a line
separating the lot from the street on which the development or contemplated
development will face.
LOT LINE, REAR:
A lot line which is opposite and most distant from the front lot line.  For a triangular
shaped lot, the rear lot line shall mean a line having a length of not less than l0
feet within the lot which is parallel to the front lot line, or parallel to the chord of a
curved front lot line, and at the maximum distance from the front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE:
Any lot boundary line which, is not a front lot line or a rear lot line.
LOT, SUBSTANDARD:
A lot whose area, width or depth is less than that required by the zone in which it
is located.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE:
An interior lot having a frontage on 2 streets, roads or highways.
LOT WIDTH:
The distance between the side lot lines measured at right angles to the side lot
lines measured at the front lot line.
LOWEST FLOOR:
The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement).  An unfinished
or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access
or storage, in an area other than a basement area, is not considered a building's
lowest floor, provided that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure
in violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this code.
MAJOR HIGHWAY:
A principal travel route around or between cities or communities with controlled at-
grade intersections.
MANUFACTURED DWELLING:
Defined under ORS 446.003(25)(a):
(a) Residential Trailer, a structure constructed for movement on the public
highways that has sleeping, cooking and plumbing facilities, that is intended
for human occupancy, that is being used for residential purposes and that
was constructed before January 1, 1962.
(b) Mobile Home, a structure constructed for movement on the public highways
that has  sleeping, cooking and plumbing facilities, that is intended for
human occupancy, that is being used for residential purposes and that was
constructed between Janua ry 1,  1962 and June 15, 1976, and met the
construction requirements of Oregon mobile home law in affect at the time
of construction.
11-22
(c) Manufactured Home, a structure constructed for movement on the public
highways that has sleeping, cooking and plumbing facilities, that is intended
for human occupancy, that is being used for residential purposes and that
was constructed in  accordance with federal manufactured housing
construction and safety standards  regulations in effect at the time of
construction.
MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME PARK:
Any place where four or more manufactured dwellings as defined in ORS 446.003
and Article 11 of the Klamath County Land Development Code are located within
500 feet of one another on a lot, tract, or parcel of land under the same ownership,
the primary purpose of which is to rent space or keep space for rent to any person
for a charge or fee paid or to be paid for the rental or use of the facilities or to offer
space free in  connection with securing the trade or patronage of such person.
"Manufactured Home  Park" does not include a lot or lots located within a
subdivision being rented or leased  for occupancy by no more than one
manufactured dwelling per lot if the subdivision was  approved by the local
government unit having jurisdiction by ordinance.
MEDICAL HARDSHIP:
A temporary circumstance caused by serious illness or infirmity, and confirmed by
a licensed medical practitioner (Medical Doctor, Physicians Assistant or Nurse
Practitioner).
MEDICAL SERVICES:
Private or public facilities for the provision of health care, treatment or rehabilitation
of patients, either on and outpatient or residential basis .  Uses may include
necessary and  accessory administrative, professional, maintenance, and
transportation services.  Typical uses include hospitals, clinics, and residential care
facilities for more than 15 individuals.
MINERALS:
Soil, coal, clay, stone, sand, gravel, metallic ore and any other solid material or
substance excavated for commercial, industrial or construction use from n atural
deposits.
MINI-STORAGE FACILITY - OUTDOORS:
A business consisting of one or more structures which are divided into separate,
enclosed units with individual accesses which are then rented, leased or sold to
other entities for the primary purpose of storing goods or materials.
MINING, AGGREGRATE:
This use includes all or any part of the process of mining by the  removal of
overburden and the extraction of natural mineral deposits thereby exposed by any
method including open -pit mining operations, auger  mining operations,
processing, surface impacts of underground mining, production of surface mining
refuse and the construction of adjacent or off -site borrow pits except those
constructed for use as access roads. “Mining” does not include excavations of
11-23
sand, gravel, clay, rock or other similar materials conducted by a landowner or
tenant on the landowner or tenant’s property for the primary purpose of
reconstruction or maintenance of access roads and excavation or grading
operations conducted in the proce ss of farming or cemetery operations, on -site
road construction or other on -site construction or nonsurface impacts of
underground mines.
MITIGATION:
The minimizing or offsetting of impacts by the provision of on or off -site
improvement or  compensation whi ch benefits impacted property owners,
resources, and the public interest.  Mitigation measures include, but are not limited
to, the provision of additional fish and wildlife habitat, conservation easements, on-
or off-site screening and buffering, compensation for the maintenance of existing
off-site screening, fees in lieu of  improvements, and similar arrangements which
are agreed to in writing by the affected  parties, and which relate to and are
necessitated by a surface mining development or operation.
MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLING:
Residential uses involving three or more attached, common wall dwelling units for
individual ownership, lease or rental on the same lot or parcel .  Typical uses
include apartments, townhouses and condominiums.
NECESSARY:
A use or structure that will contribute substantially to the effective and efficient
primary use of the property.
NEW CONSTRUCTION:
Means structures for which the start of construction commenced on or after the
effective date of a flood plain management (land development code) adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
NET METERING POWER FACILITY:
A facility for the production of energy that:
(a) Generates energy using means listed in ORS or OAR such as solar power,
wind power, fuel cells, hydroelectric power, landfill gas, digester gas, waste,
dedicated energy crops available on a renewable basis or low -emission,
nontoxic biomass based on solid organic fuels from wood, forest or field
residues but not including the production  of biofuel as authorized by ORS
215.203(2)(b)(K) in all zones which allow “Farm Use” and 215.283(1)(r) in the
Exclusive Farm Use zone;
(b) Is intended to offset part of the customer-generator’s requirements for energy;
(c) Will operate in parallel with a utility’s existing transmission and distribution
facilities;
(d) Is consistent with generating capacity as specified in ORS 757.300 and/or OAR
860-039-0010 as well as any other applicable regulations;
11-24
(e) Is located on the same tract as the use(s) to which it is accessory and the power
generating facility, tract, and use(s) are all under common ownership and
management.
NON-COMMERCIAL/STAND-ALONE POWER GENERATING FACILITY:
A facility for the production of energy that:
(a) Generates energy using means listed in ORS or OAR such as solar power,
wind power, fuel cells, hydroelectric power, landfill gas, digester gas, waste,
dedicated energy crops available on a renewable basis or low -emission,
nontoxic biomass based on solid organic fuels from wood, forest or fi eld
residues but not including the production of biofuel as authorized by ORS
215.203(2)(b)(K) in all zones which allow “Farm Use” and 215.283(1)(r) in
the Exclusive Farm Use zone;
(b) Is intended to provide all of the generator’s requirements for energy for the
tract or the specific lawful accessory use that it is connected to;
(c) Operates as a standalone power generator not connected to a utility grid;
and
(d) Is located on the same tract as the use(s) to which it is accessory and the
power generating facility, tract, and use(s) are all under common ownership
and management.
NONPRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY:
A runway having an existing instrument approach procedure utilizing air navigation
facilities with only horizontal guidance .  It also means a runway fo r which a non -
precision approach is planned and is so indicated on an FAA approved airport
layout plan; a military service's approved military airport layout plan; any other FAA
planning document, or military service's military airport planning document.
NUISANCE:
Anything that interferes with the use or enjoyment of property, endangers personal
or public health or safety, or is offensive to the senses.
OIL AND GAS:
Crude petroleum oil and all other hydrocarbons which are produced in liquid or by
ordinary production methods, and all other natural gas and hydrocarbons that were
originally in a gaseous phase in the reservoir.
OPEN PLAY FIELD:
A large, grassy area with no structural improvements intended for outdoor games
and activities by park visitors. The term does not include developed ballfields, golf
courses or courts for racquet sports.
OREGON FOREST PRACTICES ACT:
Oregon Revised Statutes 527.610 to 527.730 and 527.990

11-25
ORGANIZER:
Includes any individual who holds, stages or sponsors an Outdoor Mass Gathering,
and the owner, lessee or possessor of the real property upon which the Outdoor
Mass Gathering is to take place.
OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN:
A sign which advertises goods, products or services which are not sold,
manufactured or distributed on or from the premises on which the sign is located,
or facilities not located on the premises on which the sign is located.
OUTDOOR MASS GATHERING:
A gathering, as defined by ORS 433.735, that is an actual or reasonably
anticipated assembly of more than 1,000 perso ns which continues or can
reasonably be expected to continue for more than 24 consecutive hours but less
than 120 hours within any three-month period and which is held primarily in open
spaces and not in any permanent structure. Any decision for a permit t o hold an
outdoor mass gathering as defined by statute is not a land use decision and is
appealable to circuit court. Outdoor mass gatherings do not include agri -tourism
events and activities as provided for by ORS 215.283(4).
OVERBURDEN:
Earth or rock that lies above a natural deposit of a mineral as defined in Article 11
of the Klamath County Land Development Code.
OWNER:
The individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership or corporation having
proprietary interest in real property.
PARCEL:
A single unit of land created by: (1) a partition of land as defined in ORS 92.010 in
compliance with all land use standards then applicable; or (2) deed or land sales
contract, if there were no applicable land use or partitioning regulations then in
effect.  The term "parcel" does not include a unit of land created solely to establish
a separate tax account for assessment purposes.
PARKING SERVICES:
Private or public facilities for temporary parking of automobiles in parking garages
or lots and may involve a fee.
PARKING SPACE:
A readily accessible area, not including driveways, ramps, loading or work areas,
maintained exclusively for the parking of l motor vehicle.
PARTITION:
To divide land into 2 or 3 parcels of land within a calendar year, but does not
include: a division of land resulting from a lien foreclosure, foreclosure of a
recorded contract for sale of real property or the creation of cemetery lots; or an
adjustment of a property line  by the relocation of a common boundary where an
11-26
additional unit of land is not created and where the existing unit of land reduced in
size by the adjustment complies with any applicable land development ordinance;
or a sale or grant by a person to a public agency or public body for state highway,
county road or other right-of-way purposes provide that such road or right -of-way
complies with the Comprehensive Plan and ORS  215.283(2)(q) to (s).  However,
any property divided by the sale or grant of property for state highway, county road,
city street or other right of way purpos es shall continue to be considered a single
unit of land until such time as the property is further subdivided or partitioned.
PARTITION PLAT:
A final map, prepared pursuant to ORS 92, containing all the descriptions,
locations, specifications, provisions and necessary information concerning a land
partition, that is consistent with an approved tentative plat.
PATIO:
A roofed area permanently open on not less than 3 sides and used solely for
outdoor living.
PERMIT:
Discretionary approval of a proposed development of land.
PERSON:
Any individual, firm, co-partnership, joint venture, association, social club, fraternal
organization, corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, syndicate, district,
political subdivision, foreign country, or any other g roup or combination acting as
a unit.
PERSONAL SERVICES:
Commercial establishments primarily engaged in the provision of support services
to other business, or services of a personal or nonprofessional nature .  Business
activity may be conducted on the pre mises or off -premise.  Typical uses include
barber and beauty shops, shoe repair, office maintenance services, health fitness
studios, photographers, film processing shops, funeral and mortuary services,
travel agencies, laundry and dry cleaning establishments, secretarial services.
PERSONAL USE AIRPORT:
An airstrip or helicopter pad including associated hangar, maintenance and service
facilities restricted, except for aircraft emergencies, to use by the owner, and on
an infrequent and occasional basis, by invited guests, and by commercial aviation
activities in connection with agricultural operations .  No aircraft may be based on
a personal use  airport other than those owned or controlled by the owner of the
airstrip.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:
A development based on a comprehensive and complete design or plan identifying
all uses of the land for the development.

11-27
POLLUTION:
A violation of applicable county, state, or federal environmental quality statutes,
rules or standards.
PRACTICABLE:
That which may be done, practiced or accomplished, or that which is performable,
feasible or possible.
PRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY:
A runway having an existing instrument approach procedure utilizing an Instrument
Landing System (ILS) or a Precision Approach Radar (PAR) .  It also means a
runway for which a precision approach system is planned and is so indicated on
an FAA-approved airport layout plan; any other FAA planning document, or military
service's military airport planning document.
PREEXISTING:
Something that was la wfully established prior to the adoption of current zoning
regulations.  A building, structure, lot, parcel, unit of land preexisting.
PREPARATION:
As it applies to the definition of “Farm use” in ORS 215.203, preparation includes
but is not limited to the cleaning, treatment, sorting or packaging of farm products
or by-products.
PRIMARY OR PRINCIPLE USE:
The first use to which property is or may be devoted, and to which all other uses
on the premises are accessory or secondary uses .  As used relative to dwelling
units, the primary dwelling would be the first dwelling unit to be located on a specific
parcel or lot.
PRIMARY PROCESSING OF FOREST PRODUCTS:
The initial treatments of logs or other forest plant or fungi materials to prepare them
for shipment for  further processing or to market, including, but not limited to,
debarking, peeling, drying, cleaning, sorting, chipping, grinding, sawing, shaping,
notching, biofuels conversion, or other similar methods of initial treatments.
PRIMARY SURFACE:
A surface longitudinally centered on a runway.  When the runway has a specially
prepared hard surface, the primary surface extends 200 feet beyond each end of
that runway; but when the runway has no specially prepared hard surface, or
planned hard surface, the primary surface of a runway will be that width prescribed
in Part 77 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR) for the most precise approach
existing or planned for either end of that runway .  The elevations of any point on
the primary surface is the same as the elevation of the nearest point on the runway
centerline.

11-28
PRINCIPALLY ENGAGED IN FARM USE:
As it refers to primary farm dwellings and accessory farm dwellings, a person is
principally engaged in the farm use of the land when the amount of time that an
occupant of the dwelling is engaged in farm use of the property is similar to the
average number of hours that is typically required for a full - time employee of the
relevant type of farm use, whether that person is employed off the farm or not. Only
one resident of a household need meet the “principally engaged” test, or the test
may be met collectively by more than one household member.
PRIVATE PARK:
Land that is used for low impact casual recreational uses such as picnicking,
boating, fishing, swimming, camping, and hiking or nature -oriented recreational
uses such as viewing and studying nature and wildlife habitat, and may include
play areas and accessory facilities that support the activities listed above, but does
not include tracks for motorized vehic les or areas for target practice or the
discharge of firearms.
PROCESSED:
As it applies to farm stands, processed crops and livestock means farm products
that have been converted into other products through canning, drying, baking,
freezing, pressing, butchering or other similar means of adding value to the farm
product, including the addition of incidental ingredients, but not including the
conversion of farm products into food items that are prepared on -site or intended
for on-site consumption.
PROCESSING:
For mining purposes includes, but is not limited to crushing, washing, milling and
screening as well as the batching and blending of mineral aggregate into asphalt
and Portland cement concrete.
PROFESSIONAL OFFICES:
Commercial office related activities primarily related to professional, executive,
management, or administrative services typically directed to the public and
conducted on the premises.  Typical uses include doctor and dentist offices, small
animal veterinary services, legal offices, real estate and related services, financial
services, banks, research laboratories and development firms.
PROOF OF LEGAL ACCESS:
Legally recorded documentation or public permit establishing the right of ingress
and egress to a lot, parcel, unit of land, or tract.
PROPERTY LINE:
A property line shall be a division line between two abutting properties which are
in separate ownership.
PROPERTY LINE ADJUSTMENT:
A relocation of the division line between two abutting properties which are in
separate ownership.
11-29
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
Physical facilities and infrastructure, including but not limited to curbs, gutters,
sidewalks, street lights, street signs, roadbeds, road surfaces, storm drains and
appurtenances, fire hydrants, sanitary sewers and appurtenances, and utilities.
PUBLIC PARK:
A public area intended for open space and outdoor recreation use that is owned
and managed by a city, county, regional government, state or federal agency, or
park district and that may be designated as a public park in the applicable
comprehensive plan and zoning ordinance.
PUBLIC ROAD:
A road over which the public has a right of use that is a matter of public record.
PUBLIC UTILITY:
Any corporation, including municipal or quasi -municipal corporation, service
district, company, individual, o r association that owns or operates any plant or
equipment.
(a) For the conveyance of telegraph or telephone messages, with or without
wires;
(b) For the transportation of water, gas, or petroleum products by pipeline;
(c) For the production, transmission, delivery of furnishing of heat, light, water,
or electricity;
(d) For the transmission and delivery of television pictures and sound by
cables;
(e) For the transportation of persons or property by street railroads or other
street transportation or common carriers;
(f) For the treatment and disposal of sewage waste; or
(g) For the disposal of storm water runoff.
QUARRY:
Any place on a lot or parcel of land where dirt, soil, sand, gravel, rock, clay,
decomposed granite, or other similar material is removed b y excavation or
otherwise.  Quarry shall include mining operations, including washing, crushing,
screening, and  temporary storage, for the removal of ores, precious stones, or
other solid minerals.
QUASI-JUDICIAL:
A decision made by a review body by applyi ng existing law and policy to specific
situations and evidence (although not necessarily just facts that can be objectively
measured) in order to reach decisions that involve discretionary judgment.

11-30
RAMADA:
A stationary structure having a roof extending over a manufactured structure,
which may also extend over a patio or parking space for motor vehicles, and is
used principally for protection from snow, sun or rain.
RECLAMATION:
The employment in a surface mining operation of procedures designed to
minimize, as much as practical, the disruption of the surface mining operation and
to provide for the  rehabilitation of any such surface resources adversely affected
by such mining operations  through the rehabilitation of plant cover, soil stability,
water resource and other measures appropriate to the subsequent beneficial use
of mined and reclaimed land.
RECONFIGURATION, BOUNDARY:
Any change made to the boundary of a lot, parcel, tract, or unit of land.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV):
A vacation trailer or other uni t with or without motive power which was designed
for human occupancy, has sleeping, cooking and plumbing facilities, and has a
gross floor space of less than 400 square feet .  Typical uses include camping -
trailers, motor homes, bus conversions, travel trailers, or any vehicle converted for
use or partial use as a recreational vehicle.  The unit is identified as a recreational
vehicle by the manufacturer or converter.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK.
A lot, parcel, tract, or unit of land upon which two (2) or more recreational vehicle
(RV) sites are located, established or maintained for the general public as
temporary living quarters for recreational or vacation purposes.
RELATIVE:
A spouse, child, parent, stepparent, grandchild, grandparent, step -grandparent,
sibling, stepsibling, niece, nephew or first cousin.
REPAIR SERVICE:
Establishments primarily engaged in the provision of repair services for durable
and non-durable goods, exclusive of automotive and related equipment repairs .
Typical uses  include appli ance repair shops, alteration and tailor shops, and
instrument repair shops.
REPLAT:
The act of platting the lots, parcels and easements in a recorded subdivision or
partition plat to achieve a reconfiguration of the existing plat or to increase or
decrease the number of lots in the subdivision.
RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITY:
A facility licensed by or under the authority of the Oregon Department of Human
Resources which provides residential care alone or in conjunction with treatment
or training or combination thereof for 6 to 15 individuals who need not be related .
11-31
Staff persons required to meet Department of Human Resources licensing
requirements shall not be counted in the number of facility residents, and need not
be related to each other or to any resident of the facility.
RESIDENTIAL CARE HOME:
A home licensed by or under the authority of the Oregon Department of Human
Resources which provides residential care along or in conjunction with treatment
or training for 5 or fewer residents who need not be related.  Staff persons required
to meet  Department of Human Resources licensing requirements shall not be
counted in the number of facility residents, and need not be related to each other
or to any resident of the facility.
RESORT:
Lodging and food services provided for the traveling public, with particular
emphasis on outdoor amenities and recreation opportunities.
RESORT COMMUNITY:
A “Resort Community” is an unincorporated community that was established
primarily for the continues to be used primar ily for recreation or resort purposes;
and (a) includes  residential and commercial uses, and (b) provides for both
temporary and permanent residential occupancy, including overnight lodging and
accommodations.
RESTORATION:
The revitalization, returning or replacing of original attributes and amenities, such
as natural biological productivity, aesthetic and cultural resources, which have
been diminished or lost by past alterations, activities or catastrophic events.
RETAIL SALES:
Commercial businesses primar ily engaged in the sale of commonly used goods
and general merchandise directly to the public.  Typical uses include bicycle shops,
bookstores, camera shops, clothing and shoes stores, florists, stereo and record
stores, toy stores, video rentals.
REVIEW BODY:
The Klamath County Planning Director or designee, the Klamath County Hearings
Officer, the Klamath County Planning Commission or the Klamath County Board
of Commissioners.
RIGHT-OF-WAY:
The area between boundary lines of a street, road or other easement.
RIPARIAN AREA:
The area adjacent to a river, lake, or stream consisting of the area of transition
from an aquatic ecosystem to a terrestrial ecosystem.

ROAD:
11-32
A public or private way which is created to provide ingress and egress for persons
to one or more lots parcels, areas or tracts of land, excluding a private way that is
created to provide ingress or egress in conjunction with the use of such land for a
forestry, mining, or agricultural purpose means the primary, but not the casual or
incidental use of land for this purpose.
RUNWAY 7-25:
A Visual Utility Runway located at the City of Klamath Falls Airport/Kingsley Field,
aligned in an east-west direction and designated as a primary runway.
RUNWAY 14:
A Non -precision Instrument Runway located at the City of Klamath Falls
Airport/Kingsley Field, aligned in a southeasterly direction and designated as a
crosswind runway.
RUNWAY 32:
A Precision Instrument Runway located at the City of Klamath Falls
Airport/Kingsley Field, aligned in a northwest direction and designated as a primary
runway.
RURAL COMMUNITY:
An unincorporated community primarily composed of permanent residential
dwellings, which includes at least two (2) other uses that provide commercial,
industrial, or public services (e.g., schools, churches, grange halls, post offices) to
the community, the  surrounding rural area, or to persons traveling through the
area.
RURAL SERVICE CENTER:
An unincorporated community consisting primarily of commercial or industrial uses
providing goods and services to the surrounding rural area or to persons traveling
through the area, but which also includes some permanent residential dwellings.
RURAL LAND:
Rural lands are those which are outside the urban growth boundary and are: (a)
Nonurban agricultural, forest or open space lands, or (b) Other lands suitable for
sparse settlement, small farms or acreage home-sites with no or hardly any public
services, and which are not suitable, necessary or intended for urban use.
RURAL COMMUNITY:
Rural communities are nearly identical in function as rural service centers .  Rural
communities, however, have both community sewer and water systems which
allow for greater development densities (one dwelling unit per 5,000 square feet).
RURAL SERVICE CENTER:
An unincorporated industri al and/or convenience -commercial and residential
center of a nature and size only as required to serve the needs of the surrounding
rural lands.   Typically, rural service centers are isolated, rather compact and
located at junctions of  principal rural road s or at other strategic locations .  The
11-33
absence of key public facilities  (community sewer and water systems) limit
development densities to a maximum of one dwelling unit per acre.
SCHOOL:
Public, private and parochial preschool, elementary, junior and sen ior high
schools, colleges and trade schools together with incidental administrative,
maintenance and recreational facilities.
SCRAP OPERATIONS:
Operations primarily engaged in dismantling, storage, processing or reprocessing
of used or waste materials with the intent of reuse.  Typical uses include junk yards
or salvage yards.
SEASONAL OR TRANSIENT BUSINESSES:
Any trade, profession, occupation or pursuit conducted for gain, including those
pursuits by fraternal organizations, clubs, lodges and similar places or
establishments other than  those that have IRS tax exempt [IRC 501(c)] status
which operates an enterprise  located in the unincorporated area of Klamath
County for a period of more than two  days and less than ninety days.  The hours
of operation of permitted businesses are limited to the hours of 6:00 a.m. to 10:00
p.m.
SERIES PARTITIONED LAND AND SERIES PARTITION:
A series of partitions of land located within this state resulting in the creation of four
or more parcels over a period of more than one calendar year.
SIGN:
Any method of display or part thereof, for visual communication that includes any
announcement, declaration, demonstration, display, illustration or insignia which is
used to advertise or promote the interest of any person, business , group or
enterprise and includes accessory signs and outdoor advertising.  "Sign" does not
include official notices issued by any court or public body or officer, notices posted
by any public officer in performance of a public duty, or by any person giving legal
notice, directional warning  or information structure required or authorized by law
or by federal, state or county  authority or permanent memorial or historical signs,
plaques or markers.
SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING:
Residential uses involving site buil t dwelling units for individual ownership, lease
or rental on an individual lot or parcel.  Single-family dwelling placed inside of the
Urban Growth Boundary are required to have a garage or carport at least 180
square feet in size and placed in the same lot or parcel as the dwelling.
SITE PLAN:
A plan other than a building plan showing the physical arrangement, design or use
of a lot or parcel of land, buildings or structures indicating uses, form, dimensions
and other pertinent data.
STOCKYARDS AND ANIMAL SALES:
11-34
Temporary keeping of transient livestock for auction, market, sale, shipping or
slaughter.
STREET:
Deleted per Ordinance 45.67
STREET PLUG OR RESERVE STRIP:
A narrow strip of land controlling access to a street or half street, title to which is
dedicated to the County and the disposal of which lands shall be placed within the
jurisdiction of the Board of County Commissioners for disposal under conditions
approved by the appropriate review body.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS:
Any change in the supporting  members of a building, such as bearing walls,
column, beam or guides, floor or ceiling joists, roof rafters, roof diagrams, roof
trusses foundations, piles, retaining walls or similar.
STRUCTURE:
Anything constructed, erected or air -inflated, permanent or  temporary , which
requires location on the ground. Among other things, structure includes buildings,
walls, fences, billboards, poster panels, food stands and parking lots. Retaining
walls less than four (4) feet in height are not considered structures for the sake of
general property line setbacks.
SUBDIVISION:
Either an act of subdividing land or an area or a tract of land subdivided.
SUBDIVISION PLAT:
A final map and other writing containing all the description, locations,
specifications, dedications, provisions and information concerning a subdivision.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE:
For floodplain management purposes, means damage of any origin sustained by
a structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged
condition would equal or excee d 50 percent of the market value of the structure
before the damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT:
For floodplain management purposes, means any reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition or other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or e xceeds
50 percent of the market value of the structure before the "start of construction" of
the improvement.  The term includes structures which have incurred "substantial
damage" regardless of the actual repair work being performed.  The term does not
include: (l) Any project for  the improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have
been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum
necessary to assure safe living  conditions; or (2) Any alteration of an "historic
11-35
structure" provided that the alteration will  not preclude the structure's continued
designation as an "historic structure."
TEMPORARY STRUCTURE OR USE:
A non-permanent structure, or one used for a limited time, or a use or activity that
is of a limited duration.
TRACT:
One or more contiguous lots or parcels in the same ownership.  Contiguous means
connected in such a manner as to form a single block of land.
TRUCK STOP:
Highway related service establishments providing motor fuel, service, towing and
food service.
URBAN AREA:
All lands located within an acknowledged Urban Growth Boundary for the town
and cities of Bonanza, Chiloquin, Klamath Falls, Malin and Merrill.
URBAN LAND:
Areas which include an incorporated city and may also include lands adjacent to
and outside the incorporated city limits, and may also have concentrations of
people who  generally reside and work in the area and have supporting public
facilities and services.
USE:
The primary or principal activity, structure, or facility occurring upon land.
UTILITY FACILITIES NECESSARY FOR PUBLIC SERVICE:
Unless otherwise specified [in this Article/Chapter], a Any facility owned or
operated by a public, private or cooperative com pany for the transmission,
distribution or processing of its products or for the disposal of cooling water, waste
or by -products, and including, major trunk pipelines, water towers , sewage
lagoons, cell towers, electrical transmission facilities (except t ransmission towers
over 200’ in height) including substations not associated with a commercial power
generating facilities and other similar facilities.
VETERINARY CLINIC:
A place where large and small animals or pets are given medical attention and
cared for during the time of such treatment.
WETLANDS:
Naturally occurring land areas where excess water is the dominant factor
determining the nature of soil development and the types of plant and animal
communities living at the soil surface.  Wetland soils retain sufficient moisture to
support aquatic or  semiaquatic plant life, and include those areas that are
inundated or saturated by  surface or ground water at least fourteen consecutive
days during the growing season.
11-36
WAREHOUSING, STORAGE AND DISTRIBUTION: HEAVY:
Open-air storage, distribution and handling of materials and equipment.  Excludes
ministorage facilities.  Typical uses include monument or stone yards, open
storage yards, petroleum storage facilities.
WAREHOUSING, STORAGE AND DISTRIBUTION: LIGHT:
Wholesaling, storage, distribution, and warehouse services of materials and
equipment within enclosed structures .  Excludes mini-storage facilities.  Typical
uses include distributors, storage warehouses, moving and storage firms.
WORKER RESIDENTIAL:
Residential uses necessary and accessory to, in conjunction with, and subordinate
to the primary agricultural, forestry, commercial or industrial use of property.
YARD:
An open space on a lot or parcel of land, other than a court, unoccupied and
unobstructed by a building from the ground upward.
YARD, FRONT:
A yard extending across the full width of the lot or parcel of land on which a building
or structure is located and situated between the front lot line and the nearest point
of the building or structure.
YARD, REAR:
A yard extending across the full width of the lot or parcel of land on which a building
or structure is located and situated between the rear lot line and the nearest point
of a building or structure.
YARD, SIDE:
A yard extending from the fr ont yard, or the front lot line where no front yard is
required to the rear yard or to the rear lot line where no rear yard is required.  The
width of a side yard is the distance between each side lot line and the nearest point
of a building or structure.
YOUTH CAMP:
A facility either owned or leased, and operated by a state or local government, or
a nonprofit corporation as defined under ORS 65.001, to provide an outdoor
recreational and educational experience primarily for the benefit of persons 21
years of age and younger. Youth camps do not include any manner of juvenile
detention center or juvenile detention facility.
YURT:
A round, domed shelter of cloth or canvas on a collapsible frame.
ZONE, APPROACH, TRANSITIONAL, HORIZONTAL, AND CONICAL:
The area under the approach, transitional, horizontal, and conical surfaces defined
in Part 77, Objects Affecting Navigable Air Space, Federal Aviation Regulations,
published by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) of the U.S. Department of
Transportation.

ORD. 45.2 Adopt February 16, 1984 Repealed August 15, 1990
ORD. 45.17 Updated Full KCLDC Adopt August 15, 1990
12-1
ARTICLE 12
ADMINISTRATION
12.010 - SCOPE AND COMPLIANCE
A. Proposed Uses .  The provisions of this code are applicable to all lots,
parcels, buildings, structures  and uses of land created, established,
constructed or altered subsequent to the adoption of this code  unless
specifically exempted.
B. Existing Uses .  The provisions of this code are not retroactive in their
effect on a use of land  lawfully established on the date of adoption of this
code, unless review of an application for the  alteration, inten sification,
expansion or modification of an existing use requires a discretionary
decision to determine if the proposal is consistent with this code .  All
development permits granted  pursuant to the provisions of duly enacted
ordinances shall remain in eff ect and shall be subject to  all the conditions
and provisions of the original approval, unless otherwise revoked pursuant
to provisions of this code.
12.020 - CONSISTENCY WITH PLANS AND LAWS
A. Actions initiated under this code shall be consistent with the  Klamath
County Comprehensive Plan and with applicable county, state and federal
laws and regulations.
B. The rights granted by any development permit or building permit pursuant
to any ordinances  repealed by this code shall not be affected by such
repeal, however, such permit or approval shall be  maintained in
accordance with the provisions of this code.
C. Any use established or conducted, or any building or structure existing in
violation of any duly  enacted ordinance upon the effective date of this
code, shall not be deemed to have acquired status  of rights of a
nonconforming classification by reason of the adoption of this code or any
provisions thereof.  To the extent that such use, building or structure was
in violation of such  ordinance, statute or law, or in violation of this code,
such shall be deemed a continuing violation.

ORD. 45.2 Adopt February 16, 1984 Repealed August 15, 1990
ORD. 45.17 Updated Full KCLDC Adopt August 15, 1990
12-2
D. Any use, activity, building or structure found to be non -compliant,
incompatible, or inconsistent  with the Klamath County Comprehensive
Plan or this code shall be considered a nuisance.
12.030 - OFFICIAL ZONING MAPS
Land use zones defined in this code are denoted on the Official Zoning Map (or
maps) of Klamath  County and are adopted as a part of this code and any other
zoning map or maps devoting any type of  zoning are declared null and void and
are superseded by the Official Zoning Map (or maps) of Klamath County.
12.040 - UNCERTAINTIES OF ZONE BOUNDARIES
Where uncertainties exist as to boundaries of any zone shown upon the Official
Zoning Map (or maps) of Klamath County, the following provisions shall apply:
A. Where boundaries are indicated as approximately following lot lines,
rights-of-way of highways,  streets, alleys, roads, canals, railroads, or
contours and the like, such lines shall be construed to be boundaries.
B. In the case of unsubdivided property where a zone boundary divides a lot
or parcel of land, the  location of such boundary which is not indicated by
dimension or legal description shall be  determined by the Planning
Director in accordance with the Type II Administrative Review Procedure.
C. Where a public highway, street, or alley or any portion thereof is officially
vacated or abandoned, the area comprising such vacated highway, street,
or alley shall have applied thereto the same zone as that of the property to
which it reverts .  Existing or functioning highway and road right -of-ways
and areas used primarily for automobile and truck transportation shall be
deemed to permit the  continued use as such, as well as other uses
supportive of the primary use.
D. Railroad rights -or-way and areas used solely for the purpose of
accommodating track, signals and  other operative devices and the
movement or rolling stock shall be deemed to be zoned to permit  the
continued use as such, as well as other uses supportive of the primary
use.
E. Easements or land areas used solely for electric power line and poles,
telephone lines and poles and  gas transmission lines shall be deemed to
be zoned to permit the continued use of such.

ORD. 45.2 Adopt February 16, 1984 Repealed August 15, 1990
ORD. 45.17 Updated Full KCLDC Adopt August 15, 1990
12-3
F. Upon application, all contiguous lands under one  ownership and used as
of the effective date of the  code in conjunction with a higher use shall be
zoned with the higher use .  The application shall be  reviewed as a zone
correction pursuant to Article 49.
12.050 - FEES REQUIRED
Any application for a land use or development decision shall be accompanied by
a fee when prescribed by this code, the amount of which fee shall be adopted by
resolution of the Board of Commissioners.
12.060 - RULES OF INTERPRETATION
A. Effect of Provisions
1. Minimum Requirements - The regulations and standards set forth in
the code are to be  considered minimum requirements, which are
binding upon all persons and bodies charged with  administering or
enforcing this code.
2. Effect Upon Private Agreements - It is not intended that the se
regulations are to interfere with  or abrogate or annul any easements,
convents or other agreement between parties .  When those
regulations impose a greater restriction upon the use of land that are
imposed or required by  other ordinances, rules, or regu lations, these
regulation shall control.
B.  Language
1. Construction - When used in this code, the words "shall," or "will" are
always mandatory and  not discretionary .  The words "should" or
"may" are permissive .  The present tense includes the  past and
future tenses; and the future tense includes the present .  The
singular number includes the plural, and the plural the singular.
2. Time of Day - Whenever a certain hour or time of day is specified in
this code, or any permit,  condition of approval or noti ce issued or
given as set forth in this code, such hour shall be  standard time or
daylight savings time, whichever is in current use in the County.
3. Computation of Time - Time deadlines in this code shall be computed
by excluding the first day  and including the last day.  If the last day is
Saturday, Sunday or other legal holiday, the act must  be performed
on the next working day .  "Day" shall mean calendar day unless
otherwise specified.

ORD. 45.2 Adopt February 16, 1984 Repealed August 15, 1990
ORD. 45.17 Updated Full KCLDC Adopt August 15, 1990
12-4
4. Rounding of Quantities - Whenever this code requires considerati on
of distances, numbers of  dwelling units, parking spaces or other
aspects of development or the physical environment  expressed in
numerical quantities which are fractions of whole numbers, such
numbers are to be  rounded to the next highest whole number w hen
the fraction is .5 or more, and to the next  lowest whole number when
the faction is less than .5.
5. "Filing" or "submitted" for the purposes of this code shall mean that
any required documents  have been received by the Planning
Department by any deadline required by this code, order or  condition
of approval.
12.070 - CLASSIFICATION OF USES
A. Intent - A land use, activity, building or structure that is not enumerated or
otherwise defined by this  code may be classified, interpreted, or defined
without amendment to the language of this code.
B. Procedure
1. The Planning Director or any other person may initiate an action to
have a use classified consistent with this code.
2. Persons seeking a classification shall submit a statement to the
Planning Director setting forth  the need for the determination along
with factual information relative to the functional, land use
requirements, similarity to other uses .  A site plan consistent with
Section 41.060 shall be submitted.
3. A request for a classificat ion shall be accompanied by the fee set by
resolution by the Board of County Commissioners.
4. A request for a classification shall be reviewed according to the Type
II Administrative Review procedure.  The Planning Director or his/her
designee may refer t he action to the Hearings  Officer for a
determination or may require that the determination be addressed as
a legislative amendment to this code.
C. Criteria - A request for a classification shall be reviewed against the
following criteria:
1. The use, ac tivity, building or structure has characteristics most like
another use presently enumerated or defined by this code;

ORD. 45.2 Adopt February 16, 1984 Repealed August 15, 1990
ORD. 45.17 Updated Full KCLDC Adopt August 15, 1990
12-5
2. The use, activity, building or structure has functional characteristics
similar to another use presently enumerated or defined by this code;
3. The use, activity, building or structure has land use requirements
similar to another use presently  enumerated or defined by this code;
and
4. The use, activity, building or structure will not be incompatible with
other uses, activities,  buildings or structures already enumerated or
defined by this code.
D. Effect of Classification
1. No classification, interpretation or definition made under this section
shall be inconsistent with  Oregon law, either by statute, rule or legal
interpretation.
2. Any use, activity, building or structure may be allowed on the
property in question in the same manner as a use enumerated in this
code which was determined to approximate the proposal.
3. No classification, interpretation or definition shall apply to any other
property than to that specifically requested.

ORD. 45.2  Adopt February 16, 1984 Repealed August 15, 1990
ORD. 45.17 Updated Full KCLDC Adopt August 15, 1990
ORD. 45.27  Art. 13.020(B) Amend April 8, 1992
ORD. 45.29  Art. 13.010(E),(F),&(G) Amend May 5, 1993
ORD. 45.36(C)  Art. 13 Amend February 11, 1999
13-1
ARTICLE 13
NONCONFORMING LOTS, USES, AND STRUCTURES
13.010 - DEFINITIONS
As used in this article, the following definitions shall be used:
A. Nonconforming Lot or Parcel: Lots or parcels lawfully created prior to
February 1, 1999 and not  meeting the minimum lot area, width, or access
requirements of this Code.
B. Nonconforming Use: A use lawfully established prior to February 1, 1999
and which does not conform to the use requirements of this Code.
C. Nonconforming structures: A building, structure, or  portion thereof which
existed prior to February  1, 1999 and which does not conform to the
requirements of this Code .  Such structures may be  nonconforming as to
height, setback or similar requirements of the zone.
D. Repair: To restore a structure to its original condition after damage of less
than 80% of the latest assessed value of the structure.
E. Maintenance: Normal activities such as painting, re -roofing, re -siding,
required to maintain a usable structure.
F. Alteration: Alteration includes any modif ication or addition to a structure or
its use.
13.020 - NONCONFORMING LOTS AND PARCELS
A. A lawfully created nonconforming lot or parcel, as defined by this Code,
shall be entitled to the same  rights such a lot or parcel would otherwise
have subject to the development requirements of this code.
B. Lots or parcels may become nonconforming as a result of changes in
zoning, but nonconforming lots or parcels shall not be created through the
granting of a variance, conditional use permit, or  other development
permit.

ORD. 45.2  Adopt February 16, 1984 Repealed August 15, 1990
ORD. 45.17 Updated Full KCLDC Adopt August 15, 1990
ORD. 45.29  Art. 13.030(C)&(D) Amend May 5, 1993
ORD. 45.31  Art. 13.030, 040, 050 Amend February 15, 1995
ORD. 45.36(C)  Art. 13 Amend February 11, 1999
13-2
C. Any lot or parcel which contains more than one lawfully established single
family dwelling may be  divided into separate lots or parcels if the criteria
enumerated in this subsection are satisfied.   Nonconforming lots or
parcels created pursuant to this  subsection shall meet access
requirements of  this Code, and shall maintain the maximum feasible
setback and area requirements of the zone in  which the property is
located.
1. The lot or parcel was lawfully created and contained more than one
lawfully esta blished singlefamily  dwelling prior to February 1, 1999;
and
2. The dwellings do not constitute a manufactured home park as
defined in this Code; and
3. The subject property is not planned/zoned for farm or forestry use.
13.030 - NONCONFORMING USES
Nonconforming uses are those out of compliance with the land use zones set
forth in Chapter 50 of the Land Development Code.  Nonconforming uses lawfully
in existence as of February 1, 1999, may continue (including a change of zone or
occupancy) subject to the following provisions:
A. When a nonconforming use is interrupted or abandoned for a period of
one year, the  nonconforming use shall not be resumed .  After any such
interruption or abandonment, the use of  the site must conform to all
applicable requirements o f this Code .  "Abandonment", as used in this
section, refers to the cessation of occupancy or use;
B. If the level of activity of a nonconforming use is decreased it shall not be
permitted to increase to its original level;
C. No change of a nonconforming  use or a structure associated with a
nonconforming use shall be  permitted which would result in utilization of
greater land area, physical enlargement of a structure,  additional traffic or
employees, or any other increase or change that would result in in creased
noncompliance with this Code or greater impact on adjacent and
surrounding land uses.

ORD. 45.2  Adopt February 16, 1984 Repealed August 15, 1990
ORD. 45.17 Updated Full KCLDC Adopt August 15, 1990
ORD. 45.27  Art. 13.060(C)  Repealed April 8, 1992
ORD. 45.31  Art. 13.030, 040, 050 Amend February 15, 1995
ORD. 45.36(C)  Art. 13 Amend February 11, 1999
 13-3
D. Continued use is not defined as a “Nuisance” per the Code.
13.040 - NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES
Nonconforming structures are those that are out of compliance with the
development standards set  forth in the Land Development Code, Health Codes
and Building Codes.  Nonconforming structures in  existence as of February 1,
1999, may continue (including a change of ownership or occupancy) subject  to
the following provisions:
A. Repairs and or alterations to a nonconforming structure must not
materially change the  use or cause  the structure to be in greater
nonconformance with this Code .  Repairs shall be reviewed under a  Type
II Administrative Review Procedure.
B. Once structures are brought into conformance with this Code, repairs and
alterations may not be  undertaken that would cause the structure to once
again be nonconforming.
C. The continued use or occupancy of the structure is not defined as
“Camping” or a “Nuisance” per the Code.
13.050 - DAMAGED OR DESTROYED USES AND STRUCTURES
A. Repair or replacement of a nonconforming use or structure damaged by
fire or other natural disaster  shall be permitted in the same location and
manner provided the work commences within 1 year and  is completed
within two years.
B. Repair or replacement of a damaged nonconforming u se or structure not
commenced within 1 year shall comply with this Code.

ORD. 45.2  Adopt February 16, 1984 Repealed April 3, 1986
ORD. 45.6  Art. 14.012 Adopt April 3, 1986 Repealed August 19, 1987
ORD. 45.10  Art. 14.012(B) Adopt August 19, 1987 Repealed August 15, 1990
ORD. 45.17 Updated Full KCLDC Adopt August 15, 1990
ORD. 45.33  Art. 14.050(A)&(B) Amend May 13, 1996
ORD. 45.33  Art. 14.060(A)&(B) Amend May 13, 1996
ORD. 45.33  Art. 14.070  Repealed May 13, 1996
ORD. 45.33  Art. 14.120 Amend May 13, 1996
ORD. 45.36(D)  Art. 14 Amend March 2, 1999
ORD. 45.67  Art. 11  Adopt April 18, 2008 Acknowledged May 12, 2008
ORD. 45.91 Art. 14.090 Adopted January 25, 2018
14-1
ARTICLE 14
ENFORCEMENT
14.010 - PURPOSE
This article establishes procedures for enforcement of this Code.  The
enforcement procedures set forth are intended to ensure due process of law.
14.020 – PROHIBITIONS
No person, firm, corporation or other entity shall locate, construct, maintain,
repair, alter, or use a building or other structure or use or transfer land in violation
of this Code and other applicable ordinances.
14.030 - ENFORCEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES
The responsibility for the enforcement of the provisions of the Land Development
Code area assigned as follows:
A. County Sheriff – It is the duty of the County Sheriff and of all officers of the
County otherwise charged by law to enforce this Code and all it s
provisions.
B. Code Enforcement Officer – The Planning Director or his/her designee
shall act as the Code Enforcement Officer.  The Code Enforcement Officer
has the following responsibilities and powers in the enforcement of this
code.
1. To review with affected individuals the provisions of this code in order
to obtain voluntary compliance with its provisions.
2. To issue citations to appear before the Klamath County Circuit Court
or the Wood River Justice Court for violations of applicable
ordinances.
3. To initiate all necessary proceedings to forfeit bond or cash deposits.
4. To initiate enforcement hearings in front of the Hearings Officer to
revoke approvals granted under this code.

ORD. 45.2  Adopt February 16, 1984 Repealed April 3, 1986
ORD. 45.6  Art. 14.012 Adopt April 3, 1986 Repealed August 19, 1987
ORD. 45.10  Art. 14.012(B) Adopt August 19, 1987 Repealed August 15, 1990
ORD. 45.17 Updated Full KCLDC Adopt August 15, 1990
ORD. 45.33  Art. 14.050(A)&(B) Amend May 13, 1996
ORD. 45.33  Art. 14.060(A)&(B) Amend May 13, 1996
ORD. 45.33  Art. 14.070  Repealed May 13, 1996
ORD. 45.33  Art. 14.120 Amend May 13, 1996
ORD. 45.36(D)  Art. 14 Amend March 2, 1999
ORD. 45.67  Art. 11  Adopt April 18, 2008 Acknowledged May 12, 2008
ORD. 45.91 Art. 14.090 Adopted January 25, 2018
14-2
14.040 – CITATIONS/ENFORCEMENT ORDERS
The Code Enforcement Officer may issue notice of enforcement to appear before
the Hearings Officer, or citation to the Klamath County Circuit Court or the Wood
River Justice Court pursuant to Klamath County Code Chapter 800 to any person
who is alleged to have violated any of the prov isions of this Code or an Order of
a Hearings Officer or Board of County Commissioners .  Penalties for violations
shall be in accordance with Section 14.090 and/or Klamath County Code Chapter
800.
14.050 - REVOCATION OF APPROVAL OR SECURITY
A. The Code Enforcement Officer may initiate proceedings by notice to
revoke the approval of any permit or land use approval issued pursuant to
this Code in any case where a use of land has been  established or
conducted in a manner which violates or fails to observe t he provisions of
this code or a condition of approval.
B. The Code Enforcement Officer may initiate procedures to forfeit all or a
portion of a bond, cash deposit, or other performance security.
14.060 - PROCEDURES
A. The Code Enforcement Officer shall attempt to rectify alleged violations by
contacting the property  owner and negotiating a stipulated written
agreement to resolve the violation .  Should negotiation  fail, or the
agreement not followed, then procedures per Section 14.040 or B .  below
shall be initiated.
B. The Code Enforcement Officer shall notify the violator by notice of
intention to enforce or revoke  at least 10 days prior to an Enforcement
Hearing.  Such notice shall contain the following:
1. A heading which reads, "Notice of Enforcement Hearing."
2. A list of the provisions of this code and/or conditions violated and the
means to correct such violation(s), if any.

ORD. 45.2  Adopt February 16, 1984 Repealed April 3, 1986
ORD. 45.6  Art. 14.012 Adopt April 3, 1986 Repealed August 19, 1987
ORD. 45.10  Art. 14.012(B) Adopt August 19, 1987 Repealed August 15, 1990
ORD. 45.17 Updated Full KCLDC Adopt August 15, 1990
ORD. 45.33  Art. 14.050(A)&(B) Amend May 13, 1996
ORD. 45.33  Art. 14.060(A)&(B) Amend May 13, 1996
ORD. 45.33  Art. 14.070  Repealed May 13, 1996
ORD. 45.33  Art. 14.120 Amend May 13, 1996
ORD. 45.36(D)  Art. 14 Amend March 2, 1999
ORD. 45.67  Art. 11  Adopt April 18, 2008 Acknowledged May 12, 2008
ORD. 45.91 Art. 14.090 Adopted January 25, 2018
14-3
3. The date, time and place of the enforcement hearing.
4. The possible penalties for noncompliance.
5. A requirement that the  individual appear and show cause why the
provisions of the ordinance should not be enforced.
C. The Code Enforcement Officer shall notify the person posting the bond or
cash deposit of the  intention to cause forfeiture of the bond or deposit at
least 20 days prior to a forfeiture hearing.
Such notice shall contain the following:
1. A heading which reads, "Notice of Forfeiture Hearing."
2. The reasons for seeking forfeiture and the remedial action required
and the remedial action required.
3. The date, time and place of the forfeiture hearing.
4. The possible penalties for noncompliance.
14.070 - JURISDICTION
Court appearances and hearings before a Hearings Officer conducted for the
purpose of Code  Enforcement, revocation of approvals granted under this Code
or the forfeiture of bonds are to be conducted as follows:
A. Before the Circuit Court or Wood River Justice Court – Citation to appear
can be issued if the  alleged violation is a code violation or may pose a
threat to the public health, safety and welfare or; if the violation is a repeat
of an earlier offense or failure to obey the Order of a Hearings Officer or
the Board of County Commissioners.  Procedure is that set by law.
B. Enforcement Hearings before the Hearings Officer - Hearings can be hel d
before the Klamath  County Hearings Officer in accordance with the
procedures of Article 24 subject to appeal per Article 33.

ORD. 45.2  Adopt February 16, 1984 Repealed April 3, 1986
ORD. 45.6  Art. 14.012 Adopt April 3, 1986 Repealed August 19, 1987
ORD. 45.10  Art. 14.012(B) Adopt August 19, 1987 Repealed August 15, 1990
ORD. 45.17 Updated Full KCLDC Adopt August 15, 1990
ORD. 45.33  Art. 14.050(A)&(B) Amend May 13, 1996
ORD. 45.33  Art. 14.060(A)&(B) Amend May 13, 1996
ORD. 45.33  Art. 14.070  Repealed May 13, 1996
ORD. 45.33  Art. 14.120 Amend May 13, 1996
ORD. 45.36(D)  Art. 14 Amend March 2, 1999
ORD. 45.67  Art. 11  Adopt April 18, 2008 Acknowledged May 12, 2008
ORD. 45.91 Art. 14.090 Adopted January 25, 2018
14-4
14.080 - INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED
No person shall hinder, interfere with, or impede the Code Enforcement Officer in
the performance of duties assigned by this code.
14.090 - PENALTIES
Any person, firm, corporation or other entity who has been found to have violated
any of the provisions of this code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $ 720
per occurrence, to a maximum of $1,0 00, if  the violation is found to be a
continuing or repeat circumstance .  Circuit Court and Justice Court shall  have
concurrent jurisdiction over prosecutions for violations of this Code.
14.100 – SEVERABILITY
The provisions of the Code are severable, and any invalid section, subsection,
sentence, clause, phrase or  portion of this Code if for any reason is held invalid
or unconstitutional in a court of competent  jurisdiction, such portion shall be
deemed a separate, distinct and independent provision and sh all not effect the
validity of the remaining portions of the Code.

ORD. 45.2  Adopt February 16, 1984 Repealed August 15, 1990
ORD. 45.17 Updated Full KCLDC Adopt August 15, 1990
15-1
ARTICLE 15
IMPROVEMENT ASSURANCES
15.010 - PURPOSE
The purpose of performance agreements is to ensure that improvements or
actions required by this  code are made, and that neither the County nor other
affected property owners will incur such costs.
15.020 - IMPROVEMENTS
A. The Director of Public Works may specify and require road improvements
or repairs, infrastructure  improvements or repairs, or other site
improvements or repairs to be installed prior to final approval  of any
development, and may require that applicants or developers enter into a
performance agreement with the County for completion of required
improvements or repairs.
B. The Planning Director or review body may specify site improvements to be
installed or other  actions required by this cod e, order or condition of
approval to be completed, and may require that  applicants or developers
enter into a performance agreement with the County for completion of
improvements or performance of a required action.
15.030 - PERFORMANCE AGREEMENT
A. The Pl anning Director or Director of Public Works may enter into an
agreement, with security, allowing the applicant to install improvements or
repairs over a period of time not to exceed 2 years  from the time of filing a
final plat, and may attach specific perf ormance conditions to such
agreement;
B. The Planning Director or Director of Public Works may enter into an
agreement, with security,  allowing the applicant to install required
improvements or perform an action required by this code within a specified
time period, and may attach specific performance conditions to such
agreement;
C. A bond, or other security acceptable to the Planning Director or Director of
Public Works, shall accompany any performance agreement.  The bond or
other security shall be one of the following:

ORD. 45.2  Adopt February 16, 1984 Repealed August 15, 1990
ORD. 45.17 Updated Full KCLDC Adopt August 15, 1990
15-2
1. A bond, or other security acceptable to the Planning Director or
Director of Public Works, shall  accompany any performance
agreement.  The bond or other security shall be one of the following:
2. Cash or certified check;
3. Time deposit certificate payable to Klamath County;
4. Savings account assignment to Klamath County;
5. An irrevocable letter of credit in favor of Klamath County from a
financial institution authorized to do business in the State of Oregon,
and in a form acceptable to Klamath County.
D. The Planning Director or Director of Public Works may grant special time
extensions to a  performance agreement, and attach conditions to any
special time extension.
15.040 - EXECUTION OF PERFORMANCE AGREEMENT
A. Assurance of full and faithful performance of an improvement agreement
shall be for a sum  determined by the Planning Director or Director of
Public Works as sufficient to cover the cost of  the improvements or
repairs, including related engineering, legal, and incidental expenses.
B. In the event the applicant fails to carry out all provisions of the agreement,
the County shall:
1. Call on the surety company for full and faithful performance; or
2. Use the deposit or letter of credit to complete the work.
C. If the amount of the bond, deposit, or letter of credit exceeds the cost of
completing the work, the County shall release the remainder to the rightful
claimant.
D. If the amount of the bond, deposit, or letter of credit is less than the cost of
completing the work,  the applic ant shall be liable for the difference and,
upon demand, shall pay such liability to the County.
E. If the County completes the work necessary to satisfy any requirement of
this code or condition of  approval and assesses the cost to other parties,
those pa rties may enforce the performance  agreement as third party
beneficiaries.