30 - 1
CHAPTER 30
PUBLIC HEARINGS, NOTICE AND APPEAL
ARTICLE 30
BASIC PROVISIONS
30.010 – PURPOSE
The purpose of this chapter is to prescribe procedures for public hearings, public
notice and appeal of decisions reached as a result of the review procedures
described in Chapter 20. The intent of this Chapter is to guarantee to all parties
the opportunity to be heard, to present evidence, to have a record developed,
and to have a decision rendered incorporating findings of fact and based on
conclusions of law supported by substantial evidence in the whole record.
30.020 - APPLICATIONS AND STAFF REPORTS
A. All documentation relied upon by an applicant in support of a development
permit or other action governed by this code must be submitted in writing to
the Planning Dep artment by the date of notice established by the Planning
Director in advance of reviews or quasi -judicial hearings. Administrative
review or a public hearing shall not be scheduled or noticed until the permit
application is deemed complete by the Planning  Director or his/her designee
(ORS 215.427).
B.  Klamath County will take final action on an application for a permit, limited
land use decision, or zone change for land within an urban growth boundary,
and on application for mineral aggregate extraction, within 120 days after the
application is deemed complete. The County will take final action on all other
applications for a permit, limited land use decision or zone change within 150
days after the application is deemed complete. The time periods establis hed
in this subsection may be extended at the written request of the applicant.
(ORS 215.427(4))
C.  Staff reports that include proposed findings addressing applicable review
criteria shall be available for public inspection at least seven days prior to th e
first public hearing on the matter ( ORS 197.763(4) ). When a discretionary
land use permit decision is made without a public hearing, a staff report that
describes the relevant standards and criteria of this code shall be available at
the time of Notice of Tentative Staff Decision (ORS 216.416(8) & (11)).

 31 - 1
ARTICLE 31
PUBLIC HEARINGS
31.010 - RESPONSIBILITY OF THE PLANNING DIRECTOR (ORS 215.042)
The Planning Director or his/her designee shall perform the following duties
pertaining to administrative and/or land use permit reviews and public hearings:
A.  Establish and maintain a schedule of land use permit review and public
hearing dates;
B.  Refer and schedule land use permit applications to the appropriate
Review Body following applications being deemed complete ( ORS
215.427(2));
C.  Conduct the correspondence of the Review Body;
D.  Give notice in accordance with Article 32 and State law. Mail written notice
of tentative decisions on Type II permits made without a hearing to
applicants, their representatives and the owners of record of adjoining
property.  (ORS 197.763, ORS 215.223, ORS 215.416 and ORS
215.503);
E.  Maintain a record and enter into the record relevant dates such as those
of giving notice, hearings, postponement and continuances, and a
summary of action taken by the applicable Review Body;
F.  Prepare and maintain minutes of public meetings conducted under this
code; and
G.  Mail a copy of the final order to applicants, their representatives and any
parties who participated in a public hearing on the matter. Mail written
notice of the approval or denial to all other parties to the proceeding. (ORS
215.416(10))
31.020 - SPECIAL HEARINGS
The Planning Director may schedule special hearings after consulting with the
presiding officer of the Review Body in order to accommodate and promote
efficient hearing agendas.
31.030 - CHALLENGES TO IMPARTIALITY
Except for hearings by the Board of County Commissioners concerning
legislative amendments to the Comprehensive Plan or Land Development Code
involving broad public policy, a party to a hearing or a memb er of a Review Body
may challenge the impartiality of an individual to participate in the hearing and
decision of the matter.

 31 - 2
A. A challenge shall state, by affidavit, the factual situation relating to the
challenge including, but not limited to: an alleged personal bias,
prejudgment, ex parte contact, or personal interest in the matter.
B.  The challenge shall be delivered to th e Planning Director at least 48 hours
prior to the time set for a public hearing on the matter.
C.  The Planning Director shall inform the Review Body's chairperson of the
challenge and the person(s) at whom the challenge is directed.
D.  The Review Body s hall deal with the challenge before proceeding with a
hearing.
E.  The challenge shall be incorporated into the record of the hearing.
31.040 – DISQUALIFICATION
Except for hearings by the Board of County Commissioners concerning
legislative amendments to t he Comprehensive Plan or Land Development Code
involving a substantial area and number of property owners or issues of broad
public policy, no member of a hearing body shall participate in a discussion of the
proposal or vote on the proposal when any of the following conditions exist:
A.  Any of the following have a direct or substantial financial interest in the
proposal: the Review Body member or the member's spouse, brother,
sister, child, parent, father -in-law, mother -in-law, any business in which
the member is serving or has served within the previous two years, or any
business which the member is negotiating for or has an arrangement or
understanding concerning prospective partnership or employment;
B.  The member owns property within the area entitled to receive notice of the
public hearing;
C. The member has a direct private interest in the proposal; or
D. For any other reason, the member has determined that participation in the
hearing and decision cannot be in an impartial manner.
31.050 - PARTICIPATION OF OFFICERS OR EMPLOYEES
No officer or employee of Klamath County who has a financial or other private
interest in a proposal shall participate in discussion with or give an official opinion
to the hearing body on the proposal without first declarin g for the record the
nature and extent of such interest.

 31 - 3
31.060 - EX PARTE CONTACTS
Except for hearings by the Board of County Commissioners concerning a
Comprehensive Plan or Land Development Code Amendment which involves a
substantial area and number of property owners, or an issue of broad public
policy, the general public has a right to have hearing body members free from
pre-hearing or ex parte contacts on matters heard by them. It is recognized that a
countervailing public right is free access to public officials on any matter.
A.  Hearing body members sha ll reveal any pre -hearing or ex parte contacts
with regard to any matter before the commencement of the public hearing
on the matter. If such contacts have impaired the member's impartiality or
ability to vote on the matter, the member shall so state and n ot participate
in the hearing.
B.  Contacts between County staff and the Review Body shall not constitute
an ex parte contact (ORS 215.422(4)).
C.  No member of the Board of County Commissioners shall be barred from
participating in a hearing concerning a Comprehensive Plan or Land
Development Code amendment involving a substantial area and large
number of people, or any other issue of broad public policy because of an
ex parte contact.
31.070 - ABSTENTION OR DISQUALIFICATION
Except for hearings by the Boar d of Commissioners concerning either a code
amendment or a Plan revision which involves a substantial area and number of
property owners, or an issue of broad public policy, disqualification for reasons
other than the member's own judgment may be ordered b y a majority of the
members of a hearing body present and voting. The member who is the subject
of the motion for disqualification may not vote on the motion.
31.080 - RIGHTS OF DISQUALIFIED MEMBER OF THE REVIEW BODY
A.  An abstaining or disqualified member of the Review Body may be counted
for purposes of forming a quorum. A member who represents personal
interest at a hearing may do so only by abstaining from voting on the
proposal, physically vacating the seat on the Review Body, and making
full disclosure of his or her status and position at the time of addressing
the Review Body.
B.  If all members of a Review Body abstain or are disqualified, all members
present after stating their reasons for abstention or disqualification shall by
so doing be re-qualified and proceed to resolve the issues.

 31 - 4
C.  Except for hearings by the Board of Commissioners concerning either a
change of zone or comprehensive plan designation which involves a
substantial area and number of property owners, or an issue of broad
public policy, a member absent during the prese ntation of evidence in a
hearing may not participate in the deliberations or final decision regarding
the matter of the hearing unless the member has reviewed the evidence
received.
31.090 - BURDEN AND NATURE OF PROOF
A.  Except for hearings by the Board o f Commissioners concerning a
legislative amendment to the Comprehensive Plan and/or Land
Development Code involving a substantial area and number of persons,
the burden of proof is upon the proponent to show that the proposal
complies with or is consistent  with the Comprehensive Plan and/or Land
Development Code.
B.  Proposals must be supported by substantial evidence in the whole record
showing compliance with all applicable elements of the Comprehensive
Plan and Land Development Code.
C.  Approval or denial of a permit application shall be based on standards and
criteria set forth in this code or other appropriate ordinance or regulation of
the county and which shall relate approval or denial of a permit application
to this code and any Comprehensive Plan for the area in which the
proposed use of land would occur and to the Land Development Code
and Comprehensive Plan for the county as a whole. (ORS 215.412)
D. The more drastic the proposed change, or the greater the impact of the
proposal on other land use s or properties, the greater the burden of proof
upon the proponent to show how the proposal complies with or is
consistent with the Comprehensive Plan and Land Development Code.
31.100 - ORDER OF PROCEEDINGS
An order of proceedings for the conduct of a he aring will depend, in part, on the
nature of the hearing. The following may be supplemented by rules of procedure.
A.  Before receiving information on the matter, the presiding officer of the
hearing shall note for the record, or act on the following issues:
1.  Challenges to the impartiality of any member of the Review Body;
2. Conflict of interest or ex parte contacts by members of the Review
Body;

 31 - 5
3.  Abstentions or disqualifications of the Review Body;
4.  The nature of any site visit to the land or property in question by any
member of the Review Body; and
5.  Objections to the proceedings based on jurisdictional grounds.
B.  Before receiving info rmation on the matter, the presiding officer of the
hearing shall make a statement to those in attendance that: (ORS
197.763(5))
1.  Lists the applicable review criteria of the Comprehensive Plan and
Land Development Code pertinent to the hearing;
2.  States that testimony, arguments and evidence must be directed to the
applicable review criteria of the Comprehensive Plan or Land
Development Code pertinent to the hearing or other criteria in the
Comprehensive Plan or Land Development Code the person believe s
to apply to the decision; and
3.  States that failure to raise an issue with sufficient specificity to afford
the Review Body or other parties an opportunity to respond to the
issue may preclude future appeal based on that issue.
C. The Review Body shall hear the staff report and recommendation.
D.  The Review Body shall open the evidentiary hearing for public testimony
and submittal of evidence and arguments on the matter.
1.  Testimony shall be received in a manner prescribed by the presiding
officer.
2.  Unless otherwise specified all questions will be directed to the
presiding officer or chairperson of the Review Body.
3.  Before any person testifies at a quasi-judicial hearing, that person shall
establish standing in the matter as per Section 31.110.
E. The chairperson of the Review Body may take official notice of information
relating to the issue.
1.  Provisions of state law, a Klamath County ordinance, resolution, rule or
officially promulgated policy, or other public records and facts judicially
noticeable by ORS Chapter 41 may be noticed by the presiding officer.

 31 - 6
2.  A matter officially noticed need not be established by evidence and
may be considered by the Review Body in deciding the matter.
3.  Parties requesting official notice shall do so on the record.
4.  Any matter given official notice may be rebutted.
F.  At the close of public testimony, the record shall be closed to public
testimony and the submittal of evidence and the Review Body may
discuss the issue.
G.  All evidence, testimony, deliberations, and decisions shall be made before
the public, shall be recorded, and shall be made a part of the record.
31.105 – CONDUCT OF QUASI-JUDICIAL HEARING (ORS 197.763).
A. An issue that may be the basis for an appeal to the Land Use Board of
appeals shall be raised not later than the close of the record at or following
the final evidentiary hearing on the proposal.  Such issues shall be raised
and accompanied by statements or evidence sufficient to afford the
Review Body and parties an opportunity to respond to each issue.
B. If new evidence is submitted less than sev en days before or during a
public hearing, any party shall be entitled to a continuance or to have the
record left open if the party has not had the opportunity to review the
evidence. Such hearing continuance or extension of the record shall be for
a mini mum of seven days and be continued to a date, time and place
certain. When the continuance or extension of the record is requested by
the applicant, any applicable 120/150 day time limitation for final local
action shall be extended by the corresponding amount of time.
C. An opportunity shall be provided at a continued hearing for parties to
present and rebut new evidence, arguments or testimony. If new written
evidence is submitted at the continued hearing, any party may request,
prior to the conclusion of  the continued hearing, that the record be left
open for at least seven days to submit additional written evidence,
arguments or testimony for the purpose of responding to the new written
evidence.
D. When the Review Body leaves the record open for additio nal evidence,
arguments or testimony, any party may file a written request for an
opportunity to respond to the new evidence submitted during the period
the record is left open. If such a request is filed, the Review Body shall
reopen the record to admit new evidence, arguments or testimony.

 31 - 7
31.110 – STANDING
Before any person testifies at a quasi -judicial hearing, that person shall establish
standing in the matter before the Review Body. Persons must show that their
interests would be adversely affected by a decision or that they are entitled  to
notice under the provisions of this code. The Review Body may take testimony
from a person whose standing is taken under consideration and may make its
ruling regarding standing at the time of entry of its decision.
31.115 – DECISION
A.  Following the close of the final evidentiary hearing on a matter before it,
the Review Body may approve, conditionally approve or deny an
application for a change of land use or development proposal, affirm,
reverse or remand an issue on appeal, or shall continue the ma tter to a
time and date certain for a decision. Hearings continued for a decision
shall not be evidentiary hearings.
B.  A matter continued to a date and time certain for a decision shall be held
within 45 days of the date the evidentiary hearing record is closed.
C.  A decision shall not become final until the Review Body adopts findings of
fact and conclusion of law, and the decision is reduced to writing.
D.  A final decision, including local appeal, shall be made on all applications
within 120 days of t he date an application is deemed complete for the
purposes of scheduling a public hearing pursuant to Article 32, except as
provided for in ORS 215.427.
31.120 - FINAL ORDER
A.  A decision of a Review Body on a land use decision shall be based on
findings of fact and conclusions of law supported by substantial evidence
in the whole record. The Planning Director, County Counsel, or the
prevailing party (if designated by the Review Body), shall reduce the
decision to writing and prepare the final order. The f inal order shall
include, but not be limited to:
1.  Nature of the application or action;
2.  Name of the applicant or proponent of the action;
3.  Legal description of the affected land;
4.  Applicable standards and review criteria from the Comprehensive Plan
and Land Development Code upon which the decision is to be based;

 31 - 8
5.  Statements of facts relevant to the situation and used by the Review
Body in making its decision, including but not limited to:
a.  General Background: nature of the request and description of the
proposed use, location of the property, plan and zone designations,
history of prior actions affecting the property;
b.  Nature of the Site: size, shape, land use, topography, soils,
physical characteristics of the property, available utilities and public
facilities; and
c.  Nature of the Surrounding Area: la nd uses of surrounding land,
physical characteristics, utilities and public facilities, other
environmental and infrastructure characteristics.
6.  Reasons supported by substantial evidence in the whole record
showing how the factual situation presented ad dresses the standards
and review criteria contained in the Comprehensive Plan and Land
Development Code;
7.  Conclusions of law, and a decision stating the approval, conditioned
approval, or denial of the matter;
8.  Order; and
9.  Conditions, if applicable
B.  A final order shall be prepared within 15 days of the decision.
C.  Notice of the decision and a copy of the final order shall be provided via
first class mail to the applicant and other persons participating in the
decision or requesting notice in writing, and shall enumerate appeal rights.
D.  A final order shall be filed with the Board of County Commissioners, the
County Clerk's Office, and the Planning Department.
31.130 - RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS
The secretary to the Review Body or his/her authorize d representative shall be
present at each hearing and shall cause the proceedings to be recorded.
A.  Testimony shall be transcribed if required for an appeal, if requested by
the Review Body, or if requested and paid for by any other party.
B.  The Review  Body shall, where practicable, retain as part of the hearing
record each item of physical or documentary evidence presented and shall
have the items marked to show the identity of the person offering the
same and whether presented on behalf of a proponent or opponent.

 31 - 9
Exhibits received into evidence shall be retained in the hearing file until
after the applicable appeal period has expired, at which time the exhibits
may be released to the person identified thereon, or otherwise disposed
of.
C.  The final order shall be included in the record.
D.  Any person shall have access to the record of the proceedings at
reasonable times, places and circumstances. A person shall be entitled to
obtain copies of the record for a reasonable cost.

ORD. 45.92 Adopt January, 30, 2012

 32 - 1
ARTICLE 32
PUBLIC NOTICE
32.010 – PURPOSE
The purpose of public notice is to provide an opportunity for affected or interested
persons to participate in the local land use review and decision process.
32.020 - NOTICE SCHEDULE
A.  The Planning Director shall determine the type of notice for each land use
decision, and may provide additional notice, in such a way that all persons
reasonably determined to be potentially affected or interested in a local
land use decision receive actual notice.
B.  The notice requirements for the various types of land use and
development decisions are set forth in Section 32.070.
32.030 - TYPES OF NOTICE
A.  Published Notice -  Notice of a land use review or hearing requiring
advance notice by state law and this code shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in Klamath County on 2 consecutive
days not less than 20 days prior to the date of the scheduled review or
hearing. (ORS 215.060; ORS 215.223)
B.  Posted Notice -  Notice of a land use review or hearing requiri ng advance
notice by this code shall be posted not less than 20 days prior to the date
of the scheduled review or hearing at designated locations in the Federal
Post Office in Klamath Falls, the Klamath County Courthouse, the
Klamath County Courthouse Annex, the Klamath Falls City Hall, and at
other locations as determined by the Planning Director.
C.  Mailed Public Hearing Notice -  Notice of a quasi -judicial land use hearing
shall be mailed by first class mail in the following manner: (ORS
197.763(3))
1.  No later than 20 days prior to the date of the scheduled review or
hearing:
a.  To all owners of real property within 500 feet, including rights -of-
way and water bodies, of the subject property for actions involving
land planned and zoned for farm or forestry use;
ORD. 45.92 Adopt January, 30, 2012

 32 - 2
b. To all owners of real property within 250 feet, including rights -of-
way and water bodies, of the subject property for actions involving
property outside an urban growth boundary that is not zoned for
farm or forest use;
c.  To all owners of r eal property within 100 feet, including rights -of-
way and water bodies, of the subject property for actions wholly or
partially within an Urban Growth Boundary;
d.  To a public use airport owner if: (ORS 215.416(7))
1)  The land use decision could permit development of a structure
greater than 35 feet in height, and the property is inside the
runway "approach surface" as defined by the Oregon
Department of Aviation; and
2)  The subject property is within 5,000 feet of the side or end of a
runway at the Beav er Marsh airstrip, the Chiloquin airstrip,
Crescent Lake airstrip or the Malin airstrip; or
3)  The subject property is within 10,000 feet of the side or end of a
runway at Kingsley Field.
e.  To each mailing address for tenants of a mobile home park for a zone
change involving property encompassing all or part of a mobile home
park as identified in ORS 446.003. Such notice may not be mailed
more than 40 days before the date of the first hearing on a zone
change. (ORS 215.223(7))
f.  To all property owners affected by a legislative zone change involving
a substantial area and number of property owners in accordance with
ORS 215.503, if applicable.
g. Notice shall also be provided to any neighborhood or community
organization formally recognized by the Board of Commissioners and
whose boundaries include the site. (ORS 197.763(2)(b)).
h. Any governmental agency that is entitled to notice un der an
intergovernmental agreement entered into with the County or is
otherwise potentially affected by the proposal. For application sites
located adjacent to a state roadway or where proposals may have an
impact on a state transportation facility, notice of the decision shall be
sent to ODOT.
D.  Mailed Tentative Decision Notice -  Notice of a quasi -judicial land use
decision made without a hearing shall be mailed by first class mail in the
following manner: (ORS 215.416(11)(a))
ORD. 45.92 Adopt January, 30, 2012

 32 - 3
1.  No later than 5 days following a written decision rendered pursuant to
a Type II Administrative Review Procedure, provided the notice states
the 12-day period for appeal of the tentative decision starts on the date
the tentative decision is mailed:
a.  To all owners of real property within 750 feet, including rights -of-
way and water bodies, of the subject property for actions involving
land planned and zoned for farm or forestry use;
b. To all owners of real property within 250 feet, includi ng rights -of-
way and water bodies, of the subject property for actions involving
property outside an urban growth boundary that is not zoned for
farm or forest use;
c.  To all owners of real property within 100 feet, including rights -of-
way and water bodies, of the subject property for actions wholly or
partially within an Urban Growth Boundary;
d.  To any governmental agency that is entitled to notice under an
intergovernmental agreement entered into with the County or is
otherwise potentially affected by the proposal. For application sites
located adjacent to a state roadway or where proposals are
expected to have an impact on a state transportation facili ty, notice
shall be sent to ODOT.
2.  Notice shall also be provided to any neighborhood or community
organization formally recognized by the Board of Commissioners and
whose boundaries include the site. (ORS 215.416(11)(c))
E.  Persons who wish to receive mailed notice of hearing continuances must
file a request with the Planning Department. Mailed notice of hearing
continuances shall be limited to those persons who request such
notification in writi ng; all others shall rely on posted or published notices
as appropriate.
F.  Ownership List -  For purposes of mailed property owner notification,
owners of record shall be those listed on the most recent property tax
assessment role of the Klamath County Assessor.
32.040 - CONTENT OF MAILED NOTICE (ORS 197.763; ORS 215.416)
A. Mailed notice of a public hearing shall:
1.  Explain the nature of the application and the proposed use or uses
which could be authorized;
ORD. 45.92 Adopt January, 30, 2012

 32 - 4
2.  List the applicable criteria from the Co mprehensive Plan and Land
Development Code that apply to the application being considered;
3.  Set forth the street address or other easily understood geographical
reference to the subject property;
4.  State the date, time and location of the hearing;
5.  State that a failure to raise an issue in the course of the hearing, either
in person or by letter, or failure to provide statements or evidence
sufficient to afford the Review Body an opportunity to respond to the
issue precludes appeal based on that issue;
6.  Include the name of the Planning Department staff person to contact
and the telephone number where additional information may be
obtained;
7.  State that a copy of the application, all documents and evidence relied
upon by the applicant, and appli cable criteria are available for
inspection at no cost, and will be provided at reasonable cost;
8.  State that a copy of the staff report will be available for inspection at no
cost at least seven days prior to the hearing, and will be provided at
reasonable cost; and
9.  Include an explanation of the requirements for submission of testimony
and the procedure for conduct of the hearing.
B. Mailed notice of an administrative Type II decision shall:
1.  Explain the nature of the application, the proposed use or uses which
could be authorized, and the nature of the decision;
2.  Set forth the street address or other easily understood geographical
reference to the subject property;
3.  Include the name of the Planning Department staff person to contact
and the telephone number where additional information may be
obtained;
4.  State that a copy of the application, all documents and evidence relied
upon by the applicant, and applicable criteria are available for
inspection at no cost, and will be provided at reasonable cost;
5.  State that any person who is adversely affected or aggrieved or who is
entitled to written notice under this Section may appeal the decision by
ORD. 45.92 Adopt January, 30, 2012

 32 - 5
filing a written appeal in the manner and within the time period
provided for by this code;
6. State that the decision will not become final until the period for filing a
local appeal has expired; and
7. State that a person who is mailed a written notice of the tentative
decision cannot appeal the decision directly to the Land Use Board of
Appeals under ORS 197.830.
32.050 - COST OF NOTICE
The cost of notice required by this code shall be included in the application fee.

32.060 - RECEIPT OF NOTICE
Failure of any party to receive notice shall not automatically nullify a land use
decision.
32.070 - NOTICE SCHEDULE
Type of Application  Requirement
Type I Permit  Mailed
Type II Permit without Hearing
Variance, Land Partition, etc. Mailed
Quasi-judicial Hearing Decision
Conditional Use Permit  Published, Mailed & Posted
 Subdivision, PUD, DRO, etc.
 Change of Zone Designation or
Comprehensive Plan Designation
Legislative Amendments
Comprehensive Plan, Plan Map,  Published & Posted;
Land Development Code & Zoning Map Mailed Notice if Required by
ORS 215.503

 33 - 1
ARTICLE 33
APPEAL OF DECISIONS
33.010 – PURPOSE
The purpose of this article is to establish uniform procedures for the appeal of
decisions rendered pursuant to this code. (ORS 215.422)
33.020 - APPEAL AUTHORITY
A.  Decisions reached under the following re view procedures may be
appealed to the Board of County Commissioners:
1.  Administrative Review - Article 22
2.  Hearings Officer - Article 24
3. Planning Commission - Article 26
33.030 - NOTICE OF APPEAL
Notice of intent to appeal a decision rendered unde r the procedures of this code
shall be filed no later than seven days following mailing of the final order. Notice
shall be in the form of a signed letter, shall state the name(s) of the party or
parties appealing the decision, and shall be received by Pla nning Department
before the close of business on the seventh day or next business day if the
seventh day falls on a weekend or county holiday. The fee established by the
Board of County Commissioners shall accompany the notice of appeal.
33.040 - STATEMENT OF APPEAL
No later than 7 days following the filing of a notice of appeal pursuant to Section
33.030, the appellant shall file with the Planning Department a written statement
of grounds for the appeal explaining:
A.  How the Comprehensive Plan, Klamath C ounty Land Development Code,
or applicable State law was incorrectly interpreted or applied in the
decision; or
B.  What information in the record of decision was pertinent to the decision,
but was not considered by the Review Body.
33.050 - EFFECT OF APPEAL
A.  Failure to file an appeal within the specified time or in the manner prescribed
in Sections 33.030 and 33.040 shall nullify the appeal and the decision shall
be final.

 33 - 2
B.  The proper filing of an appeal shall stay the effective date of the decision until
a final decision is rendered through the local appeal process.
33.060 - STANDING TO APPEAL
To have standing to appeal a decision rendered under the procedures of this
code, persons or parties must have participated, either orally or in writing, in the
local review process, and must show that their interests would be adversely
affected by the decision.
33.070 - ACTION OF THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
A.  Appeal hearings shall be conducted in accordance with Article 31.
B.  If the Board of County Commissioners elects to overturn or modify the
previous decision it shall make a finding declaring one or more of the
following conditions exist:
1. The Planning Director, Hearings Officer or Planning Commission did not
correctly interpret the requirements of the Land Development Code,
Comprehensive Plan, or applicable State law; or
2. The Planning Director, Hearings Officer or Planning Commission did not
consider all of the info rmation in the record that was pertinent to the
case.
C.  The Board of County Commissioners may impose any necessary
conditions if overturning or modifying the previous decision results in
approval of an application.
D.  If time permits pursuant to ORS 215 .427, the Board of County
Commissioners may remand an appeal to staff or the appropriate Review
Body for recommendations.
F.  The Board of County Commissioners may adopt by reference the findings
and conclusions previously made, or make additional findings , and may
amend or add to any conditions imposed.
G.  The Board of County Commissioners action on an appeal shall be
governed by the same regulations of this code that applied to the original
Review Body.
H.  Notice of an appeal hearing shall be given in t he same manner as the
prior review proceeding unless there was no prior evidentiary hearing.
When the appeal hearing is the first evidentiary hearing on the matter,
notice shall be provided in accordance with Section 32.030.

 33 - 3
I.  In the case of a tie vote of the Board of County Commissioners, the
decision of the original Review Body shall be final.
33.080 - DE NOVO APPEAL HEARINGS
A.  In any appeal to the Board of County Commissioners of a decision for
which a first evidentiary  hearing was not conducted but for which public
notice was required by Oregon law, the Board's review shall be de novo or
"completely new from the start."
B.  Notice of a de novo appeal hearing shall be in accordance with the
requirements of Article 32. All other appeal hearings shall be limited to the
record.