KLAMATH COUNTYA
Identity Theft Prevention
    “Red Flag Policy”

OBJECTIVES

Klamath County adopts this policy to address the requirements of the Fair and Accurate Credit
Transaction Act provisions of the Federal Fair Credit Reporting Act Rule 16, CFR § 681.2 (the
FTC "Red Flag Rules") and the Oregon Consumer Identity Theft Protection Act ("OCITPA") set
forth in ORS 646A.600, et seq. Under these laws Klamath County (County) must take appropriate
measures to guard personal and confidential information. The purpose of this policy is to identify
patterns, practices, or specific activities that indicate the possibility of identity Theft and to take all
reasonable step to prevent and mitigate the theft of personal information. Under the Red Flag
Rules, the County  must adopt rules for Identifying and detecting "Red Flags" that raise concerns
that personal information is potentially being misused or stolen, and under OCITPA, the County
must implement safeguards for protecting the security, confidentially, and integrity of personal
information entrusted to the county by its customers and employees, including the proper disposal
of such information.

Klamath County previously adopted  a " Red Flag Policy" on January 22, 2013.

DEFINITIONS
• Identity Theft- A fraud committed or attempted using the "Identifying Information" or "Personal
Information" of another person without  authority.

• Identifying Information-  Any name or number that may be used, alone or in conjunction with
any other information, to identify a specific  person.
• · Identifying Information includes, but is not limited to, a person's:
o  Name
o Address
o Telephone
o Social Security Number (SSN)
o Date of Birth (DOB) _
o Government issued Driver's License Number or Identification Number (DL/ID)
o Alien Registration Number
o Government Passport Number
o Employer or Taxpayer Identification Number
o Unique Electronic Identification  Number
o Computer Internet Protocol  Address
o Routing Code

• Personal Information -  A consumer or employee's name in combination with: a SSN; a passport
or any federal ID number; a DL or ID number; or a financial, credit, or  debit card number along
with a security code, access code, or password. It may also include the same types of information
without the name if the information obtained would be sufficient to permit a person to commit
Identity Theft against the person whose information was  compromised.

• Private Information - A collective reference to Identifying Information and Personal
formation.

• Red Flag- Any pattern, practice, or specific activity that indicates the possibility of Identity
Theft Alert, notifications, or other warnings received from law enforcement or other
governmental agencies can be regarded as Red Flags for Identity Theft.  Such information
may include a fraud alert or the United States Post Office providing a notice of address
discrepancy.

POLICY
• In compliance with the Red Flag Rules, the County shall implement a program taking all reasonable
steps to detect, prevent, and mitigate instances of Identity Theft and the misuse of Identifying
Information. To carry out this policy, the County has adopted and will  implement th
, e rules set forth
in this policy: to identify and detect Red Flags raising concerns that Identifying Information is
potentially being misused or stolen; and to outline procedures for safeguarding Private Information.

• Any document marked "Confidential",  "Sensitive", "Proprietary",  or any document similarly
labeled. The County will implement and maintain reasonable safeguards to protect the security and
confidentiality of personal information, including proper custody and disposal.

• For the protection of SSN's  the following activities are prohibited: printing SSN's on any mailed
materials not requested by the employee unless redacted (meaning no more than the last four digits is
readable or accessible); or printing SSN's on cards used to access products, services, buildings, and
publicly posting or displaying of SSN's. Documents, forms, and processes that include or require
personal information will be reviewed to determine if and when obtaining or retaining personal
information is necessary.   If the personal i nformation is not necessary, the forms and process will be
revised to eliminate that information. Personal information, if no longer needed, shall be  redacted.

• This policy includes five primary compliance areas: 1) determining what Private Information the
County holds; 2) being aware of potential Red Flags; 3) safeguarding Personal Information entrusted
to the County by its employees; 4) providing notice of theft or misuse of Personal Information; and 5)
implementing the policy.

HARD COPY DISTRIBUTION
• Access to Personal Information will be permitted in person at the County, only after verifying the
person's identity through photo identification. Personal Information may also in the future be obtained
over the internet with secure password protection .  Ac cess to information via  telephone or internet
(when available) shall require verification of his or her identification using -information that would
only be known to the affected person. Information will not be given without first clearin g any
discrepancies in the information provided.

. •  Except when required by law, SSN's shall not be printed on mailed materials unless redacted, shall
not be printed on cards used to access products, services, or County buildings, and shall not be
included on public postings or displays, including the County's website. Social Security Numbers
may be used for internal verification or administrative  processes, but should be redacted whenever
possible.

• County buildings and all facilities used for record storage shall be locked at the end of each workday
and alarm systems engaged where  applicable.

• Desks, workstations, work areas, printers and fax machines will be cleared of all documents containing
sensitive information when not in use. File cabinets, desk drawers, cabinets and other storage space
containing documents with sensitive information will be locked when not in use. When documents
containing sensitive information are  discarded they will be immediately shredded using a mechanical
cross cut shredder or stored in a secured space until transported to a commercial shredding site  by
authorized personnel.  A certificate of shredding or other proof shall be required if the shredding is
completed off-site.

• Notary journals that contain personal information should be kept in a secured area or a locked file
cabinet or drawer. No identifying numbers shall be recorded in the notary journal. Type of
identifying document and  expiration date may be recorded in the notary journal only.

ELECTRONIC DISTRIBUTION
• Internally, sensitive information may be transmitted using approved County email.

• Any sensitive information sent externally must be encrypted and password protected and only
to approved recipients.

CUSTOMER ACCOUNTS
• County employees will take reasonable care when accepting applications for service and be
aware of any suspect  activity.

NOTIFICATION
• The County shall provide notification of a security breach as soon as possible in writing, or
electronically if it is the primary manner of communication with the customer or employee, or
by telephone if the person is contacted directly. The exception is if the notification would impede
a criminal investigation.

• A report will be prepared and submitted to the Klamath County Board of Commissioners of any
identify theft incidents and the response to the incident along with recommendations for changes
to the program, if  any.

THIRD PARTY VENDORS
The County has various business relationships with third party contractors. Under these business
relationships, the third-party contractor may have access to customers Private Information
covered in this  policy. The County shall ensure that the third -party contractors' work for the
organization is consistent with this policy  by:

• Amending County contract templates to incorporate these requirements;  or

• By determining through written acknowledgement that the third-party contractor has
reasonable alternative safeguards that provide the same or greater level of protection for
Private Information as provided by the  County.

EMPLOYEE TRAINING AND RESPONSIBILITIES
• The Human Resources Department is responsible to include this Identity Theft Prevention
Program "Red Flag Policies" as part of the new employee orientation and documenting the review
of the policy.

• Department Directors are responsible  to be familiar with the "Identity Theft Prevention Program
and Red Flag Policies". Department Directors are also responsible to include this policy in
temporary employee orientation by documenting review of this  policy.

• The County personnel are encouraged to use common sense judgment in securing the
confidential information to the proper extent. If an employee is uncertain of the sensitivity of
a particular piece of information, he/she should contact his/her supervisor and treat such
information as confidential until a determination is made. The County shall only collect sensitive
information that is necessary for each transaction or that is considered to be public information.
Employees shall. adhere to this policy and any internal processes adopte d by their department.
Noncompliance may result in formal disciplinary action up to and including termination of
employment.