99 - 1
CHAPTER 90
MISCELLANEOUS
ARTICLE 99
SENSITIVE BIRD SPECIES HABITAT OVERLAY
99.005 - PURPOSE
The purpose of the Sensitive Bird Species Habitat Overlay is to insure that
sensitive habitat areas  identified in the County's Goal 5 Sensitive Species
Inventory as critical for the survival of the Golden  Eagle, Prairie Falcon, and the
Northern Bald Eagle are protected from the effects of conflicting uses or  activities
which are not subject to the Forest Practices Act .  This objective shall be
achieved by implementation of the decision resulting from the economic, social,
environmental and energy analysis
(ESEE).
99.010 - DEFINITION OF SENSITIVE HABITAT AREA
A. The sensitive habitat area is the area identified in the Klamath County
Comprehensive Plan Resource Element inventory and site specific ESEE for
each sensitive species site.  The sensitive habitat area to be protected by the
provisions of this article is defined as the area:
1. Within a diameter of 660 feet or 1/8 of a mile of a golden eagle nest,
bald eagle nest, or prairie falcon nest
2. Within a diameter of 1320 feet or 1/4 of a mile of a golden eagle nest,
bald eagle nest, or prairie falcon nest
99.015 - LIMITATIONS AND USES PERMITTED
A. Uses permitted and conditionally permitted in the underlying zone(s) a re
either prohibited or subject  to the additional procedure and requirements of
Section 99.020 and the provisions of the ESEE  decision.  The Sensitive
Species Habitat Zone does not regulate or prohibit forest practices subject  to
ORS 527.610 to 527.770 and  the rules adopted pursuant thereto; or to farm
practices as defined by ORS 30.947(2).
B. When there is a conflict between the site -specific ESEE analysis and the
provisions of this overlay  the ESEE analysis shall take precedence.
 99 - 2
99.020 - APPLICABILITY
A. A review under this article shall be triggered by the following proposals
occurring within a sensitive  habitat area, as defined in Section 99.010 of this
article:
1. An application for a site plan approval or any land use permit identified
as a conflicting use in the EESE analysis.
2. Land divisions creating new building sites within the sensitive habitat
area.
3. An application for a conditional use permit identified as a conflicting
area in the ESEE analysis.
99.030 - SITE PLAN
A. For those proposals identified in 99.020 to be sited within an inventoried
sensitive habitat area, as  defined under Section 99.010, a site plan shall be
prepared in accordance with the requirements of  this section and Article 41 .
The site plan shall be approved prior to issuance of a building permi t, land
partition, subdivision, or conditional use permit.
B. The site plan shall provide the following information in addition to the
requirements of Article 41 (Site Plan Review):
1. Description of operating characteristics of the proposed use including
times when activity  within the sensitive habitat area would generate
noise, dust, vibration, lights, traffic or be visible from the nest.
2. Timing of construction activities including grading or filling land, hauling
building materials.
3. Description of existing vegetation and vegetation to be removed for the
proposed development.
C. The County shall submit a copy of the site plan to the Oregon Department of
Fish and Wildlife  (ODFW) for comment .  ODFW shall have 20 days from the
date the site plan is mailed to submit written comments to the County.
D. Based on the comments, the criteria in Section 99.040, and the ESEE
analysis, the County shall  approve or reject the site plan .  The County may
allow the applicant to revise the site plan if the  applicant has not met the
standard for approval .  Applicant shall waive the 150 -day time limit if  he/she
chooses to revise the site plan.
 99 - 3
99.040 - SITE PLAN REVIEW
A. Approval of a site plan shall be based on the following criteria:
1. The site plan shall consider the biology of the identified sensitive
species, nesting trees, critical nesting periods, roosting sites and buffer
areas.
2. Development activities, including grading and fill, mining, construction
or activities generating  noise or dust within the sensitive habitat area
shall be prohibited during the ne sting season  identified in Section
99.055, unless the site qualifies for On -Site Validation under section
99.050.
3. New roads, driveways or public trails shall be located at the greatest
distance possible from the  nest unless topographic or vegetation or
structural features will provide greater visual and/or  noise buffer from
the nest.
4. Existing vegetation or other landscape features which are located on
the subject property and  which obscure the view of the nest from the
proposed development shall be preserved and maintained.  All existing
vegetation not disturbed by the proposed project shall be preserved
and maintained.
5. No partitions or subdivisions shall be permitted which would allow the
location of a dwelling  sensitive habitat impact area or other structure
not otherwise permitted by the site specific ESEE, within the 660–foot.
6. All exterior lighting, including security lighting, shall be sited and
shielded so that the light is  directed downward and does not shine on
the subject nest.
7. The site plan shall conform with the requirements of the ESEE decision
for the subject  sensitive species habitat site contained in Goal 5
Inventory of the Klamath County Plan.
99.050 - ON-SITE VALIDATION
A. If a site has been abandoned or that nesting activity has ceased prior to the
time specified in Section  applicant may have to hire a private contractor that
will follow the established protocol in 99.050(B)  to provide the necessary
information to ODFW.  If confirmation is validated by the ODFW, the applicant
will be able to build or start his/her project on or after the early release da te.
 99 - 4
B. The purpose of these guidelines are to establish criteria for modifying the
species protection period  for a pair of birds in the event the nest site is
inactive, unsuccessful or the young have left the nest  area.  If it can be
determined that a nest  site is not active then the species protection period
can be lifted for that year.  The early release dates proposed here reasonably
reflect that date after which  nest initiation or re -nesting attempts probably
would not occur.
1. To determine if a nest i s active or inactive, the nest site must be
monitored.  A monitoring plan should include, at a minimum, three field
observation periods of four hours duration .  Sampling periods should
be separated by at least ten days .  If a nest is not active by the earl y
release date  then the protection period can be terminated .  If it is
determined that nesting is active, after the  young have fledged and left
the nest tree area, the protection period can be lifted.
2. If no monitoring is planned for the site, then the f ull species protection
period should be in effect.
3. The nest monitoring must be conducted by a biologist .  The field
activities must not become a  disturbing activity and possible cause of
nest abandonment.
99.055 - PROTECTION PERIOD
Species Protection Period Early Release
Bald Eagle Jan 1 – Aug 31 May 1
Golden Eagle Feb 1 – Aug 31 May 1
Prairie Falcon April 1 – July 30 June 1
99.060 – REMOVAL AND EXPANSION OF USES
A. If site is confirmed by Oregon Department Fish and Wildlife or a biologist to
be abandoned or  destroyed, then the site shall be removed from the
inventories.
B. A prohibited use may be established if approved as a plan amendment under
the provisions of  Articles 47, 48, and 49 of the Klamath County Land
Development Code.