80 - 1
CHAPTER 80
SPECIAL USE STANDARDS

ARTICLE 80
BASIC PROVISIONS

80.010 - PURPOSE

The purpose of this chapter is to establish supplementary property development
standards for land uses that present unique or complex land use planning
opportunities or constraints.

80.020 - APPLICATION

The standards in the chapter relate to the special characteristics of the uses and,
unless otherwise specified, are to be applied in addition to all other applicable
standards prescribed in this code.  In the event that the standards contained in this
chapter differ from other applicable standards of this code, the more stringent
standards shall apply.

 81 - 1
ARTICLE 81
MINERAL AND AGGREGATE EXTRACTION STANDARDS
81.005 - PURPOSE
The purpose of this Article is to implement Article 57, the Significant Resources
Overlay zone, to allow  mineral and aggregate mining, processing, storage and
stockpiling on all sites w hich are listed as 2A, 3A,  or 3C on the acknowledged
Klamath County Goal 5 Resources Inventory .  This Article shall set out the
standards to be used when reviewing an application for a development permit on
any site listed as 2A,  3A, or 3C on the acknowled ged Klamath County Goal 5
Resources Inventory.  Article 57 is applied to a  mineral and aggregate site using
the procedure outlined in Section 57.080 and through a comprehensive  plan and
zone amendment as part of the Periodic Review process .  This Article shall also
serve as the  standards to be used when reviewing mineral and aggregate
mining, processing, storage and stockpiling  either as a permitted use or a
conditional use as allowed by the zoning on the parcel, on all sites which  are
listed as 1A, 1B or 3 B on the acknowledged Klamath County Goal 5 Resources
Inventory.
81.010 - GOAL 5 STANDARDS
A. The impact area for a mineral or aggregate site is divided into two sections as
follows:
1. The extraction area and the impact area may consist of one or more
tax lot(s) or portions of  single tax lots and may be applied to
contiguous properties under different ownership .  Both must be
described by a legal description and drawn to scale on a map;
2. The extraction area is the actual extraction, processing, and stock pile
site as described by a valid  Department of Geology and Mineral
Industries (DOGAMI) operating permit or reclamation  plan, the ESEE
on a site which is on the Goal 5 inventory, or the site as described by a
Conditional Use Permit application.
3. The impact area shall be applied to properties or portions of properties
adjacent to and immediately surrounding the extraction area.
a. The minimum width of the impact area shall be 1000 feet from the
boundaries of the  mineral or aggregate extraction area .  The 1000
foot distance may be decreased by either:
1) A written agreement between the owner of a sensitive or
conflicting use and the owner  or operator of the mineral or
aggregate extraction site .  The agreement shall be notarized,
recorded with the County Cler k and on the property deed, and
shall run with the land .  A copy shall be filed in the Planning
Office.

 81 - 2
2) As described and for reasons addressed in the site specific
ESEE.
b. The decision to reduce or expand an impact area shall be based on
the type of m ineral and  aggregate resource to be extracted, the
mining method and type of processing, and the  physical features of
the surrounding area.
c. The minimum distance allowed by this procedure is 100 feet from
the boundary of the extraction area to the conflicting use.
d. Applications for new or expanded uses within the impact area shall
be processed under Section 57.030 and shall be required to sign a
waiver of remonstrance to use, activation, or  change in the use of a
mineral or aggregate site .  The waiver o f remonstrance shall be
notarized, recorded with the County Clerk and on the property
deed, and shall run with the  land.  A copy shall be filed in the
Planning Office.
e. The owner and operator (if any) of the mineral or aggregate site
shall receive notice  of any  application for new or expanded
sensitive or conflicting uses within the impact area.
4. Sensitive or conflicting uses are listed in 57.040(A).
B. The quality of the rock, basalt, aggregate or similar material used in road
construction, located in the site, should meet or exceed the following
standards for it to be determined significant:
1. Abrasion (AASHTO T96, OSHD TM 211): Loss of not more than 35%
by weight;
2. Oregon Air Degradation (OSHD TM 208): Loss of not more than 35%
by weight; and
3. Sodium Sulphate Soundness (OSHD TM 206): Not more than 17% by
weight.
C. The significance of unique or common material including, but not limited to;
Pumice, Cinders, Clay,  Diatomaceous Earth, Andesite, Sand and Gravel,
Borrow shall be considered on a case-by-case basis when:
1. The owner/operator of the site can show that a market exists for the
resource being mined; or
2. The owner/operator has test data on the resource.
D. The test data and other information on quality and quantity must be submitted
by a certified geologist, mining engineer, registered professional civil engineer
or qualified engineering testing firm.

 81 - 3
81.020 - APPLICATION
A. The following activities shall be exempt from the standards set forth in this
section in accordance with ORS 517.750(15) and ORS 215.298:
1. The proposed operation will not extract::
a. EFU zone: more than 1,000 cubic yards of material, or disturb more
than 1 acre of land;
b. Other zones: more than 5,000 cubic yards of material, or disturb more
than 1 acre of land within a period of 12 consecutive months;
2. Excavations less than 5000 cubic yards of sand, gravel, clay, rock or other
similar materials by  the owner or tenant of a parcel for the construction,
maintenance or re-construction of on-site access roads.
3. Excavations or grading of a parcel conducted in the process of farming,
forestry, and cemetery operations.
4. The owner or operator of the parcel may be asked to substantiate an
exemption claim.
B. Preexisting mineral and aggregate operations must meet one of th e following
criteria to be exempt from the requirements of this Article:
1. The operator has a valid DOGAMI permit or County permit issued on or
prior to the effective date of the adoption of Article 81; or
2. The site is listed as a 2A, 3A, or 3C site on the Goal 5 Mineral and
Aggregate Inventory as of February, 1992; or
3. The owner or operator can establish the existence of the site prior to the
implementation of  zoning regulations and can establish that the site has
been operated in the last calendar ye ar and  meets the criteria set out
under Section 13.060 of this code.
C. Expanding a preexisting site shall be subject to the requirements of this
Article if the expansion will  include use of additional acreage beyond that
originally permitted by DOGAMI or the County  permit or identified on the
ESEE for the site.
D. Preexisting sites may continue to operate subject to the terms and conditions
(if any) of the original  approval and the then existing Article 81, and are
exempt from the requirements of Article 8 1, as amended on March 31, 1992,
for as long as they are able to operate and maintain the preexisting status.
E. All new and proposed mineral and aggregate sites shall be subject to these
requirements.

 81 - 4
F. Mining or gravel extraction auxiliary to forest pra ctices are exempt from the
requirements of this Article.
G. Resumption of operation at an inactive surface mining site may be resumed
without additional regulation under this code provided that the operation has
maintained, on a continuous basis, a valid  permit from the Oregon
Department of Geology and Mineral Industries and other regulating
authorities or a valid County Conditional Use Permit .  Resumption of
operation shall be subject to  original conditions of approval and the Type II
Administrative Review procedure.
H. Resumption of an operation where a state or county permit has at any time
expired or has otherwise  been invalidated shall constitute a new operation
and be subject to all applicable requirements of this code.
81.030 - PROCEDURE
A. New or exp anded mineral or aggregate mining, processing, storage and
stockpile sites added to the  Goal 5 Mineral and Aggregate Inventory as 2A,
3A, or 3C sites with a development permit  application, shall obtain a site plan
approval processed using a Type I Review P rocedure as set out  under
Section 22.030 of this Code.
B. New or expanded mineral or aggregate mining, processing, storage and
stockpile sites added to the  Goal 5 Mineral and Aggregate Inventory as 2A,
3A, or 3C sites without a development permit  application, shall obtain a site
plan approval processed using a Type II Review Procedure as set out  under
Section 22.040 of this Code.
C. New or expanded aggregate mining, processing, storage and stockpile sites
added to the Goal 5  Mineral and Aggregate Inventory as 2A, 3A, or 3C sites
within an EFU zone shall obtain a site plan  approval processed using a
Limited Land Use procedure as set out under House Bill 2261.
D. All sites which hold valid DOGAMI permits when added to the Goal 5 Mineral
and Aggregate  Inventory as 2A, 3A, or 3C sites, shall not be required to
obtain a site plan approval unless the  extraction area is to be expanded
beyond the boundaries established in the DOGAMI permit.
E. The application for the review of a development permit shall contain the
following:
1. A completed application form; and
2. A site plan with the location of the extraction area, any related processing,
storage and stockpiling sites clearly delineated, that the standards set out
in 81.050 have been met and that all  requirements of a site specific ESEE
have been met; and

 81 - 5
3. A complete description of how all the standards set out in Article 81.050,
and any site specific ESEE requirements have been met.
F. The review authority shall approve the site plan upon a finding that the
proposed or expanded site:
1. Meets all the standards set out under Section 81.050 of this Code; and
2. Any site -specific requirements contained in the ESEE are met and
satisfied.
81.040 - REVIEW PROCEDURE AND CRITERIA FOR CONDITIONAL USE
PERMITS
A. Where the underlying zone lists mining as a conditionally permitted use, and
the mineral and aggregate site is listed on the Goal 5 Mineral and Aggregate
inventory as 1-A or 1-B, mining operations may be allowed by conditional use
permit, and shall be processed as follows:
1. The application of the Mineral and Aggregate Extraction standards
shall be accomplished by a  Conditional Use Permit as provided in
Article 44 of this code.
2. Notification procedures for the purpose of establishing a mineral
extraction operation  in a zone  for which it may be conditionally
approved shall differ from Article 32 to require notification of  property
owners within 1000 feet of the subject property.
3. Applicants for a conditional use shall prepare and submit a statement
that documents the nature of the mining activity .  The statement shall
include:
a. Method(s) of production, including types of equipment to be used,
hours of operation, access to and from the site, and the anticipated
annual extraction;
b. Availability of water for dust abatement and reclamation purposes;
c. Methods to be employed to minimize visual, dust and noise impacts
to surrounding  properties, including, but not limited to, utilizing
natural landforms and existing vegetation,  the placement of
landscape or earthen be rms, and a vegetative planting scheme;
and
d. Other information deemed necessary by the planning department to
review the proposal.
B. In addition to the general criteria in Section 44.030, the following findings
must be made for a  Conditional Use Permit f or mineral or aggregate
extraction:

 81 - 6
1. That the site will be operated in accordance with applicable state
and/or federal regulations.
2. Standards specified in Section 81.050 are, or will, be met..
3. That the proposed access is engineered to accommodate a ny
increased volume of traffic.
4. That the proposed access can safely handle the type of increased
traffic flow which will  accompany the development without significantly
endangering the public health, safety or welfare.
5. That an adequate water supply i s available to the site .  (For dust
control, required landscaping, reclamation, etc.)
6. That blasting which may be necessary will not damage existing
structures or facilities (including  wells).  In lieu thereof, a bond or
certificate of insurance the amou nt to be determined at the  time of the
review, shall be provided.
81.050 - DEVELOPMENT AND SITING STANDARDS
All operations, except those lawfully established preexisting uses or those
preempted by the Oregon  Forest Practices Act, shall meet the following
standards:
A. The landowner and operator shall be held jointly responsible for the operation
of a mineral extraction site.
B. Visual quality.
1. Existing trees and other natural vegetation bordering adjacent public
land or a non -resource (urban or rural) zo ning district shall be
preserved to screen the view of any mineral or aggregate  activity
including equipment, from any conflicting or sensitive use within the
impact area;
2. If vegetation or landforms do not provide acceptable screening to
adjacent public  land or nonresource  zoned property, appropriate
screening shall be provided at the property boundary or  nearer to the
site.  Such screening shall be in the form of a fence, wall, landscaped
berm, or natural vegetative cover to supplement any natural scree ning.
The type of screening to be used  shall be decided as a function of a
site specific ESEE or a Conditional Use Permit;
3. Screening may not be required when the natural topography of the site
offers sufficient screening  to screen the view of any miner al or
aggregate activity including equipment, from any conflictin g or
sensitive use within the impact area .  This shall be decided as a
function of a site specific ESEE or a Conditional Use Permit;

 81 - 7
C. Water Quality.
1. All mineral and aggregate extraction sites shall show proof of a valid
Oregon Department of  Environmental Quality and/or Oregon
Department of Water Resources permit when applicable which shall be
decided as a function of a site specific ESEE or a Conditional Use
Permit;
2. The operator shall  not cause a change in the location of any stream
channel or wetland without  proof of a valid Oregon Division of State
Lands and other affected state or federal agency  permit or approval .
The need for a valid Oregon Division of State Lands and other affec ted
state or federal agency permit or approval shall be decided as a
function of a site specific ESEE or a Conditional Use Permit.
D. Air Quality.  All mineral and aggregate extraction sites shall be operated in a
manner consistent with air quality regulations.
1. All mineral and aggregate extraction sites shall show proof of a valid
Oregon Department of  Environmental Quality air discharge permit,
when applicable which shall be decided as a  function of a site specific
ESEE or a Conditional Use Permit;
2. All roads being used by the operator on private land shall be
maintained to minimize dust when the road is located within 300 feet of
a residence in existence on the date the mining operation  was
established.
a. Dust abatement shall conform to Oregon Departm ent of
Environmental Quality standards.
b. Dust abatement shall include, but not be limited to, road watering,
chemical dust suppressant, and/or road paving or similar treatment.
E. Land Quality.  All mineral and aggregate extraction sites shall be operate d in
a manner consistent with accepted reclamation practices.
1. The operator shall obtain a valid Oregon Department of Geology and
Mineral Industries operating permit.
2. Land shall be reclaimed for subsequent beneficial uses.  Beneficial use
shall be a c ondition suitable for uses allowed by the zoning district,
consistent with a reclamation plan approved by  the Oregon
Department of Geology and Mineral Industries, or the end use
determined as a  result of a site specific ESEE analysis or Conditional
Use Permit.
F. Operating Setbacks: The setbacks shall be the same as the underlying zone
except as follows:

 81 - 8
1. Additional setbacks for a proposed site or expansion of an extraction
area may be required as part of site specific ESEE or a conditional use
permit or a DOGAMI operating permit or reclamation plan.
G. Hours of Operation.
1. Operation of mineral and aggregate extraction sites shall be limited to
the hours between 6:00  a.m.  and 10:00 p.m .  Monday through
Saturday.
2. Operating hours may be modified as det ermined by a site specific
ESEE or a County Conditional Use Permit.
3. Modification of hours for operations involving public contracts for public
facilities or public roads shall require the Director of Public Works' input
regarding anticipated costs or cost savings of modified hours.
4. Subsequent modification of operating hours may be made through the
Planning Director review  procedure with notice as set out in Section
81.030(A).
H. Blasting Restrictions.
1. Blasting shall be restricted to the hours of 9: 00 a.m .  to 6:00 p.m.,
Monday through Friday.
2. No blasting shall occur on Saturdays, Sundays or the following
holidays: January 1; Memorial Day;  July 4; Labor Day; Thanksgiving
Day; December 25.
3. Exceptions to the blasting restrictions may be granted  based on a site
specific ESEE, or a Conditional Use Permit or if necessary to complete
a specific road or construction project .  The following criteria must be
observed:
a. There are no noise sensitive uses located within one thousand
(1000) feet of the mining site; or
b. The site is regulated by the Forest Practices Act; or
c. If noise sensitive uses are located within one thousand (1000) feet
of the mining site, the  increased activity will not exceed noise
standards established by the Department of  Environmental Quality;
and
d. The operator of the mining site shall be responsible for notifying all
noise sensitive uses located within one thousand (1000) feet of the
mining site in person or by first class mail  which is received at least
forty-eight (48) hou rs prior to the date and approximate time of the
blasting activity for which an operator receives an exception.

 81 - 9
I. The site may be blocked to the public through the installation of fencing and
locked gates as determined by either the site specific ESEE or the conditional
use process.
J. Nuisance Mitigation .  Mineral and aggregate sites shall be maintained and
operated in a manner not detrimental to public health, safety and welfare.
81.060 - CONDITIONS
The following conditions may be imposed on a 1 -A, 1-B or a site which is not on
the Goal 5 Mineral  and Aggregate inventory, upon a finding that additional
restrictions are warranted:
A. A modification of required setbacks for adjacent land uses.
B. Limiting the manner in which the use is conducted:
1. Restraints to minimize noise, vibration and blasting, air pollution, glare,
odor, dust, etc.;
2. Limitations on lighting (i.e., location, intensity, possible shielding);
3. Other restrictions deemed necessary by findings of fact.
C. Additional access roads which circumvent residential areas.
D. Off-site stockpiling or processing.
E. Air, water or reclamation standards exceeding those required by state or
federal law if justified by findings of fact.
F. Limiting the height, size, or location of buildings or structures.
G. Protecting and preserving existing trees, vegetation, water resources, wildlife
habitat, or other significant natural resources.
81.070 - LIFTING THE OVERLAY ZONE
A. The owner of the property a mineral or aggregate site is located on, must
submit a letter requesting the significant Resource Overlay Zone be lifted and
the site be removed from the Mineral and Aggregate Inventory.
B. The owner of the property a mineral or aggregate site is located on which is
being operated under a  valid Department of Geology and Mineral Industries
(DOGAMI) permit must submit proof from  DOGAMI that the site has been
closed and reclaimed.
C. All surface mining equipment, machinery, vehicles, buildings and related
structures, accessory to the  mineral or aggregate activity  must be removed

 81 - 10
from the extraction area within 30 days of the  completion of all mining,
processing and reclamation activities, except for any structures allowed by
the underlying zone.
D. The zoning on the property shall revert to the underlying zone.
E. Once the Significant Resources Overlay Zone is lifted, the site cannot be
reactivated, mined,  excavated, or used for processing or stockpiling of
materials without complying with the  requirements contained in the Klamath
County Land Development Code.
F. The owner of the property a mineral or aggregate site is located on may
submit an application to  apply the Significant Resources Overlay zone to a
site which was previously zoned as such .  The site will be treated as a new
site and will not be considered as pre-existing or grandfathered.
ORD 45.84 Adopted March 31, 2015
ORD 45.89 Adopted May 31, 2017
ORD. 45.101 Adopted May 30, 2023

 82 - 1
ARTICLE 82
CAMPING

82.010 – PURPOSE
The purpose of this article is to establish standards for camping on private
property, which is allowed in all zones, including inside Urban Growth
Boundaries.

Camping is the occupancy of private property within a tent, tent-trailer, vehicle, or
recreational vehicle not within an authorized/designated camping facility.

Camping on public or private property beyond the time limits described in this
section is prohibited, except for hunters with a current hunting licens e during an
Oregon Dept. of Fish and Wildlife sanctioned hunting season.
82.020 – STANDARDS
A. Camping on private property is allowed for up to 21 days in any 6 month
period.  No permit is required for the first 7 days.  A permit is required for any
stay between 8 and 21 days and must be posted at the property entrance for
the duration of the stay.  A minimum of 14 days is required between camping
stays. The total number of days counted is per all contiguous property under
the same ownership.

B. Camping on private property during an Oregon Dept . of Fish and Wildlife
sanctioned hunting season is allowed for up to 42 days in any 6 month period.
No permit is required for the first 7 days. A permit is required for any stay
between 8 and 42 days and must be posted at the property entrance for the
duration of the stay. A minimum of 14 days is required between camping
stays. The total number of days counted is per all contiguous property under
the same ownership.

C. Camping is limited to the property owner or those who have written
permission from the property owner.

Outside of Urban Growth Boundaries, no more than at total of 2 vehicles,
trailers with tow vehicles, or tents and a maximum of 12 people are allowed
when a permit is required.  Inside Urban Growth Boundaries, no more than 1
vehicle, trailer with tow vehicle or tent and a maximum of 4 people are
allowed when a permit is required.

D. Sewage disposal requires the following when a permit is required:
a. Porta Potty, or
b. Self-contained Recreation Vehicle
Where there is a public sewer system or septic system, no connection is allowed
when camping.
ORD 45.84 Adopted March 31, 2015
ORD 45.89 Adopted May 31, 2017
ORD. 45.101 Adopted May 30, 2023

 82 - 2

E. If a permit has not been issued and a complaint regarding camping for more
than 7 days is received, the number of days counted toward camping will start
at day 8 when the complaint is received.

F. RV’s and any shelter or tent must meet the basic setbacks of the zone.

G. If garbage or trash accumulates at the site, including in trailers or vehicles, or
is left at the site, the County may revoke the camping permit and/or not issue
any future camping permits until the site is cleaned up.
ORD 45.0 Adopt February 16, 1984
Type I Review 1-18 September 21, 2018

 83 - 1
ARTICLE 83
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
83.010 - PURPOSE
Traditional zoning establishes zone boundaries and sets forth permitted uses
within various zones which are intended to apply to individual lots and parcels .
Acknowledging that land may be more effectiv ely developed in unified building
groups for residential, commercial, industrial, and mixed uses through
imaginative site design techniques, the County intends:
A. To provide for a combination of uses on a single site when consistent with the
Klamath County Comprehensive Plan;
B. To provide flexibility in the application of the Land Development Code;
C. To promote the economy of shared public services and facilities;
D. To enhance opportunities for creation of attractive, healthful, and efficient
environments for housing, commerce and industry; and
E. To best utilize the potential of sites characterized by special features of
location, topography, size or shape.
83.020 - EFFECT ON PREVIOUSLY APPROVED PUD ZONES
All lots and parcels carrying a Planned Unit Dev elopment designation on the
adopted Klamath County Zoning  Map on November l5, 1990 shall revert to the
underlying zone designation in the following manner:
A. Development on parcels previously zoned PUD may continue consistent with
any previously approved development plan.  Development not specifically
approved shall comply with this article.
B. Lots or parcels for which the underlying zone is undetermined or unclear shall
be legislatively rezoned at no cost to the property owner.
83.030 - REVIEW AUTHORITY
A. The Planning Commission may review and authorize planned unit
developments as conditional uses .  The  development shall be subject to all
conditions imposed by the Planning Commission and shall be excepted  from
other provisions of this code only to the extent specified in the authorization.
B. Planned unit residential developments may be allowed in the R -1, R-2, R-5,
R-10, RS, RL, RM and RH zones.
ORD 45.0 Adopt February 16, 1984
 83 - 2
C. Planned unit commercial and light industrial developments may be allowed in
the CG, CT, and IL zones.
D. Planned unit mixed developments of residential and commercial/industrial
uses may be allowed in the R-1, R-2, R-5, R-10, RS, RM, CG and CT zones.
83.040 - APPLICATION PROCEDURES AND CONTENTS
A. Before submitting development plans for approval, an applicant proposing a
planned unit development shall conduct a pre-application conference with the
Planning Department to obtain general information,  guidelines, procedural
requirements, advisory opinions, and technical assistance for the project
concept.
B. Following a pre- application conference the applicant may prepare a
preliminary development plan for review  by the Planning Commission.  Thirty
copies of the development plan shall be submitted to the Planning
Department along with a filing fee set by the Board of  County Commissioners
to defray costs incidental to the review process.
C. In addition to the general requirements of this code, the preliminary plan shall
contain the following elements:
1. A development proposal consisting of:
a. General schematic maps which depict:
1) The existing topography of the site, percent of slope, and
contours shown at 2 foot intervals;
2) Existing land uses adjacent to the site, including thoroughfares,
their current design capacity and proposed future capacity;
3) The location of public uses including schools, parks,
playgrounds, and other open spaces on the proposed site or
nearby area which may serve the development; and
4) Common open spaces and a description of the proposed
development and use of these spaces.
b. A written statement containing:
1) An explanation of the character of the development and the
manner in which it has been planned to take advantage of the
special provisions contained in this article;
2) A financial capability report indicating prospective sources of
funds and persons or groups  having a financial interest in the
project;
ORD 45.0 Adopt February 16, 1984
ORD 44.84 Art. 83.040(C)(7)(a) Adopt June 22, 2010 Acknowledged July 30, 2010
 83 - 3
3) Evidence of ownership or control of the land proposed for
development, including location by  legal description of the
property, addresses of the applicant, owners, and designers of
the development; and
4) The method, operation and maintenance proposals for water
supply, sewage disposal, fire protection, open space and
recreation, area maintenance, and drainage.
2. A tentative land partition map or preliminary subdivision plat as may  be
necessary for the development including any re-platting;
3. A site plan showing the approximate location, heights, and setbacks of
buildings, structures, and other  improvements, and also indicating the
open spaces to be provided, landscaping to be prov ided, the location
and design of parking facilities, points of ingress and egress to the site,
and major physiographic features;
4. Elevation and perspective drawings of proposed structures;
5. A development schedule indicating:
a. The approximate date when construction will begin; and
b. The phases in which the project will be built, if any, and the
approximate starting dates of each phase.
6. Agreements, provisions, or covenants which will govern the use,
maintenance, and continued protection  of the planned unit
development and any of its open space areas;
7. The following plans and diagrams:
a. A circulation plan indicating proposed circulation for vehicles,
pedestrians, and bicyclists, and any special engineering features or
traffic regulation devises needed to facilitate or ensure safety in the
development;
b. A schematic landscape plan;
c. A drainage plan prepared in accordance with Article 73.
83.050 - PERMITTED USES
A. The following uses are permitted in a planned unit residential development
1. A permitted or conditional use in the underlying zone.
2. Commercial service supported mainly by residents of the development.
3. Commercial uses if the design ensures adequate buffering to protect
dwellings within the development and adjacent to it from traffic, noise
or similar adverse influences.  Dwellings may be situated within
commercial uses.
ORD 45.0 Adopt February 16, 1984
 83 - 4
B. The following uses are permitted in a planned unit commercial and light
industrial development or mixed use developments:
1. A permitted or conditional use in the underlying zone;
2. Varied arrangement and location of commercial or industrial building
types and designs;
3. Single or multiple family dwellings if designed with adequate buffering.
83.060 - MINIMUM PARCEL SIZE
A planned unit development may not be established on less than 5 acres of
contiguous land unless the Planning  Commission finds that the property is
otherwise suitable due to its unique location, character, topography or  other
natural features, and is of sufficient size to be planned and developed in a
manner consistent with the intent of this article.
83.070 - DENSITY
Dwelling unit density shall not exceed that allowed by the underlying zone.
Where commercial or industrial uses  are contained within a mixed use planned
unit development, the land ar ea occupied by such uses and accessory  facilities
shall not be included in the land area used to calculate the allowed density, and
residential density shall be authorized by the Planning Commission.
83.080 - DESIGN STANDARDS
A. The setback requirements for the underlying zone shall apply to the planned
unit development unless  specifically determined or modified by the Planning
Commission.
B. Building heights shall not exceed the requirements of the underlying zone
unless specifically modified by the Planning Commission where demonstrated
that height variances are consistent with the overall development  proposal
and will not adversely affect adjacent land uses.
C. Public works development standards of Chapter 70 shall apply unless
specifically modified by the Planning  Commission on a recommendation from
the Director of Public Works.
D. All electrical, telephone, cable television or other utilities shall be located
underground.
E. The layout and design of parcels and the siting of structures shall be oriented
to take advantage of solar  insulation when practical.
ORD 45.0 Adopt February 16, 1984
 83 - 5
F. Landscaping shall comply with the provisions of Article 65.
G. Common dedicated open space shall comprise no less than 25 percent of the
total site area, excluding roads,  parking areas or commercial and industrial
sites.
83.090 - PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT REVIEW CRITERIA
A planned unit development may be approved only if it meets the following
review criteria:
A. The existing and natural features of the land have been considered and will
substantially contribute to the quality of the development;
B. The development demonstrates design quality;
C. The development will not have a substantial adverse impact on the
surrounding area in terms of air, land and  water quality, public facilities,
natural hazards, or quality of the built environment;
D. The development is planned to ensure a high degree of safety for users of the
development and surrounding areas;
E. The development will not require streets, roads or county services beyond
that required by a typical lot-by-lot development; and
F. The development complies with all other applicable review criteria and
standards of this code.
83.100 - PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN REVIEW PROCEDURE
A. Review of the preliminary development plan shall be in accordance with the
provisions of the Planning Commission Review Procedure (Article 26).
B. The Planning Commission may attach any conditions it deems necessary to
the development plan approval when supported by substantial evidence in the
whole record.
C. The Planning Commission shall issue a final order of its decision on the
preliminary development plan.
ORD 45.0 Adopt February 16, 1984
 83 - 6
83.110 - FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN REVIEW PROCEDURE
A. No later than 2 years following approval of the preliminary development plan,
the applicant shall submit a final de velopment plan for review .  The final
development plan shall conform to the approved preliminary  development
plan and shall incorporate all changes or conditions required by the Planning
Commission.
B. If the Planning Commission finds that the final development plan is materially
different from the approved preliminary development plan, the applicant shall
submit an amended plan for review.  Submission of an amended plan shall be
considered in the same manner as the original application.
C. An approved final development plan shall bear the signatures of the Planning
Director, County Surveyor, and Director of Public Works if all requirements of
this code and state statutes are satisfied .  A reproducible copy of the final
development plan shall be filed with the County Planning Department.
D. Any and all improvement work, including the construction and inspection of
work by the Director of Public  Works shall be the responsibility of the
applicant, and shall be completed before approval of the final  development
plan.  The applicant may enter into a performance agreement with the
Director of Public Work for improvements pursuant to Article 15.
E. Prior to the expiration date of approval of the preliminary development plan,
an applicant may apply for a time extension.
1. Requests for time extension shall be filed on forms provided by the
Planning Department, and accompanied by the established fee.
2. Review of requests for time extension shall be reviewed according to
the Type I Administrative Review Procedure.
3. A maximum of 2 time extensions may be granted following the date of
approval of the preliminary  development plan.  The cumulative length
of time extensions shall not exceed 2 years.
4. If a request for time extension is denied and the time period for
obtaining approval of the development  plan expires, a new planned
unit development application shall be filed.
83.120 - CHANGES TO A FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN
A. The final development plan shall control the planned unit development
throughout the course of its development.
ORD 45.0 Adopt February 16, 1984
 83 - 7
B. Any amendments of the final development plan following final approval shall
be processed as a new application, and shall be considered if the amendment
is necessary for the continued success of the development, or because of
changes in conditions that have occurred since the final development plan
was approved, or because there have been changes in the development
policy of the community as reflected by  the Klamath County Comprehensive
Plan or related land use regulations.

ORD 45.72 Adopted December 15, 2008 Acknowledged March 6, 2009
ORD 45.96 Adopted November 17, 2020
 84 - 1
ARTICLE 84
MANUFACTURED DWELLINGS,
RECREATIONAL VEHICLES, AND PARKS
84.010 – STANDARDS FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES
Manufactured dwellings placed on individual lots in zones identified in Chapter
50, shall meet construction  standards in accordance with Oregon R evised
Statutes, Chapter 446 and Klamath County Code Chapter 703  and the following
standards:
Manufactured dwellings are divided into three classes .  Each class contains
certain standards for compliance.
A. Minimum standards for manufactured homes sited in side the Klamath
Falls Urban Growth Boundary shall:
1. Be a double section or larger multi-section unit; and
2. The home shall be placed on an excavated and back -filled foundation,
enclosed at the perimeter with  no more than twenty-four (24) inches of
the enclosing material exposed above grade .  Where the building site
has a sloped grade, no more than twenty four inches of the enclosing
material shall be exposed on the uphill side of the home; and
3. Have utilities connected subject to the requirements of t he Klamath
County Building Department and manufacturer’s specifications;
4. The home must bear the HUD label; and
5. Have roofing materials of a type customarily used on site -constructed
residences.  The home shall  have a pitched roof with a nominal slope
of at least three feet in height for each twelve feet in width; and
6. Have siding materials of a type customarily used on site -constructed
residences such as horizontal vinyl, wood, or aluminum lap-siding; and
7. Have a garage or carport at least 200 square feet in size, constructed
before occupancy, of like  materials.  The garage or carport must be
sited on the same lot as the dwelling.
B. Minimum standards for manufactured homes sited outside the Klamath
Falls Urban Growth Boundary:
1. Be placed on a foundation, or support system approved by the building
official; Skirting is required  and shall be placed prior to final electrical
approval; and
2. The home must bear the HUD label; and
3. Have utilities connected subject to the requirements of the Klamath
County Building Department and manufacturer’s specifications.
ORD 45.72 Adopted December 15, 2008 Acknowledged March 6, 2009
ORD 45.96 Adopted November 17, 2020
 84 - 2
C. Manufactured homes NOT meeting the above minimum standards may
be sited by  Type I Administrative Review per Article 22.030  outside the
Klamath Falls UGB if sited in Klamath County as of  February 1, 1999, or
within designated Manufactured/Mobile Home Parks, or for Temporary
Uses as defined by Article 42.
1. If placed on a foundation or support system approved by the building
official; skirting is required  and shall be placed prior to final elec trical
approval; and
2. Bear the Oregon Insignia of Compliance; or if to be placed on private
property, be certified as  “substantially equivalent,” including but not
limited to upgraded electrical circuitry, to a HUD  labeled home as
certified by the State of Oregon Building Codes Division; and
3. Have utilities connected subject to the requirements of the Klamath
County Building Department and manufacturer’s specifications.
84.020 – CRITERIA AND STANDARDS FOR MANUFACTURED/MOBILE
HOME PARKS
Manufactured/Mobile home parks established in zones allowing such uses as
identified in Chapter 50 shall be developed in accordance with standards found in
Oregon Revised Statutes, Chapter 446 and Oregon  Administrative Rules,
Chapter 814, Division 28, and in accordance wit h the following criteria and
standards:
A. Site development plans submitted to the Planning Department shall conform
to the standards specified  in ORS Chapter 446 and OAR Chapter 814,
Division 28.
B. Manufactured/Mobile home parks shall be no less than 1 acre in size.
C. No more than 10 manufactured dwelling spaces shall be developed per acre.
D. No building or structure shall exceed 25 feet in height.
E. Exterior boundaries of the Manufactured/Mobile Home Park shall be screened
with a sight-obscuring fence or hedge as provided for in Article 64.
F. Vehicular access shall be onto a dedicated street or highway, and shall be
subject to approval of the Director of Public Works or State Highway Division.
G. Vehicular access points to the Manufactured/Mobile Home  Park shall
maintain a “clear vision” setback pursuant to Section 62.020.
H. Manufactured/Mobile Home Parks shall be landscaped as required in Article
65.
ORD 45.72 Adopted December 15, 2008 Acknowledged March 6, 2009
ORD 45.96 Adopted November 17, 2020
 84 - 3

I. Signs may be permitted pursuant to Article 66.
J. Manufactured/Mobile Home Parks shall meet all P ublic Works Department
standards of Chapter 70.
84.040 - SITING RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Recreational vehicles are not designed for residential purposes according to
standards and specifications of  the Uniform Building Code which have been
established to prot ect public health, safety and welfare.   Recreational vehicles
shall not be used for housing or residential purposes except:
A. When the recreational vehicle is located on an individual lot or parcel during
the construction of a  dwelling or for use in the t emporary care of a relative,
and subject to a Temporary Use Permit (Article  42) and all applicable health
and safety requirements of the Health and Building Department.
84.050 – STANDARDS FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS
All recreational vehicle parks shall be designed to conform to the standards
specified in Oregon  Administrative Rules, Chapter 814, Division 29 .  The site
plan requirements identified in the Administrative  Rules shall be used by the
County in reviewing any request for authorization of the Rec reational Vehicle
Park in any zone authorizing such use.
84.060 – REPLACEMENT OF SINGLE WIDE MOBILE/MANUFACTURED
HOMES WITHIN THE UGB
A. An existing single wide mobile/manufactured home utilized as an
office/caretaker may be replaced with  another single wi de for the same
purpose, if the following apply:
1. The single wide mobile/manufactured home to be replaced, existed at
its current location no later  than December 2001 and continues to
exist;
2. The existing single wide mobile/manufactured home and its
replacement must have been, and  continue to be used in conjunction
with a business, and cannot be used exclusively for residential
purposes;
3. The replacement permitted by this section, shall only be allowed in
Commercial or Industrial zones described in Chapter 50;
4. There must be insufficient space for anything larger than a single wide
on the lot or parcel; and
ORD 45.72 Adopted December 15, 2008 Acknowledged March 6, 2009
ORD 45.96 Adopted November 17, 2020
 84 - 4
5. The replacement shall meet the standards of 84.010 (A)(2-6).

B. In addition to the criteria (1-5) described in part A of this section, a Conditional
Use Permit pursuant to Article 44, is required.
C. If a replacement allowed by this section is no longer used as an
office/caretaker, it shall be removed no  later than three months after the use
is discontinued.
85 - 1
ARTICLE 85
HOME OCCUPATIONS
85.010 - PURPOSE
The purpose of this article is to ensure that home occupations conducted within
one's own property are  compatible with the neighborhood in which it is located,
and maintain the character and appearance of both t he use and the
neighborhood.
85.015 - DEFINITION
Home occupation refers to an occupation or enterprise carried on within a
dwelling or accessory building for  financial gain by a member of the immediate
family residing within the dwelling.  The occupation must be ACCESSORY to the
primary use of the home as a residence .  Typical home occupations are services
or crafts  such as dressmaking, tutoring, music lessons, etc .  Accessory uses
shall not require internal or external  modifications to the dwelling or acce ssory
building or require the use of machinery, tools, or equipment not  associated with
residential use.
For the purpose of this Article, a home occupation is an occupation or enterprise
carried on within a dwelling or  accessory building, for financial gain by a member
of the immediate family residing within the dwelling; the  occupation or enterprise
must be accessory to the primary residential use.
85.020 - PERMITTED USE
A home occupation may be approved or conditionally approved in all zones
allowing residential use pursuant to the Type II Administrative Review Procedure
if the following criteria are satisfied:
A. The business will be conducted solely by a resident of the property on which
the business is located.  No other employees are permitted.
B. The home occupation is conducted primarily within a dwelling or accessory
building;
C. There is no outdoor storage of materials or goods;
D. Machinery, tools, or equipment used is typically associated with residential
use and will not have an adverse  or harmful effect (i.e.  noise, odor or fumes)
to the established land use of the area.
E. The occupation shall not require internal or external alterations of the dwelling
or accessory building; and
F. The use will utilize a sign or nameplate not greater than 3 square feet in area.
85 - 2
85.030 - CONDITIONAL USE
A home occupation may be approved in all zones allowing residential use as
conditional use permit (Article 44), if the following criteria are satisfied:
A. The business will be conducted principally by a residen t of the property on
which the business is located and  will employ no more than 2 additional full -
or part-time employees.
B. The home occupation is conducted primarily within a dwelling or accessory
building;
C. The business is not the primary use of the property;
D. The home occupation shall not occupy more than 25 percent of the total floor
area of all structures located on the same property as the home occupation;
E. The use will not require internal or external alterations, modifications, or
construction features that change  the principle character of the use or
structure involved;
F. One (1) off -street parking space is provided for each employee and one (1)
off-street parking space is  provided for each 300 square feet of gross floor
area of the use;
G. The use will utilize a sign not greater than 6 square feet in area; and
H. Outdoor storage of materials shall be screened from view of the street and
adjacent property by a sight obscuring fence or hedge.
85.040 - ANNUAL REVIEW
The Planning Director or de signee shall review a permit allowing a home
occupation every 12 months following  the date the permit was issued, and may
continue the permit if the home occupation continues to comply with  the
requirements of this article .  Annual review shall be conducte d in accordance
with the Type II Administrative Review Procedure.
85.050 - BED AND BREAKFAST STANDARDS
Bed and Breakfast operations may be allowed subject to a conditional use permit
(Article 44) if the following  criteria are satisfied in addition to those  of Section
44.030:
A. Minimal outward modification of the structure or grounds may be made only if
such changes are compatible  with the character of the area or neighborhood
and the intent of the zoning district in which it is located.
85 - 3
B. One off-street parking space shall be provided for each guestroom .  The front
yard shall not be used for off-street parking for guests unless the parking area
is screened and landscaped pursuant to Articles 64 and 65.
C. Those facilities providing service to more than 6 g uests are not considered
"license exempt" under state law  and must comply with state hotel/motel
restaurant licensing procedures administered by the Health  Department.  The
issuance of such licenses shall not be considered as conferring
nonconforming statu s to  the use which would either allow alteration of the
facility or otherwise compel rezoning of the property for commercial use.
D. One on-premise sign may be approved provided that such sign is not more
than 6 square feet in size.
E. Room rentals to guests shall not exceed 14 consecutive days.
F. The bed and breakfast facility must be accessory to and contained within the
single-family dwelling occupied  by the owner (not a manager) or within
accessory dwelling units or structures which lawfully exists.
G. The bed and breakfast facility shall not begin operation until the Health
Department has inspected and approved the facility.
86 - 1
ARTICLE 86
ARCHEOLOGICAL RESOURCES
86.010 - PURPOSE
The purpose of this article is to establish provisions to mitigate adverse impacts
to archaeological resources and  to prescribe the means by which archaeological
resource sites are assessed.
86.020 - APPLICATION
Until such time as specific inventory work accurately identifies and designates
archaeological resources, a use or  activity identified as a conflicting use in
Section 57.040(H) shall be reviewed pursuant to the provisions of this  article
when the u se or activity is located in a high or medium probability area within
known archaeologically sensitive area identified in the Comprehensive Plan.
86.030 - EXEMPTIONS
The following uses and activities are exempt from the requirements of this article:
A. A use or activity proposed in a low probability area;
B. Forest operations regulated by the Oregon Forest Practices Act;
C. Accepted farm practices as defined by this code;
D. Residential uses.
86.040 - PROBABILITY AREAS
A. High probability areas include:
1. Previously recorded sites
2. Linear features such as trails, roads, ditches and railroads
3. Areas adjacent to seeps, springs, ponds and lakes
4. Benches and terraces adjacent to streams
5. Bottomlands next to rivers and streams
6. Foothills near rivers at the edge of floodplains
7. Meadow edges
8. Areas near extinct water systems
9. Scabland plateaus
86 - 2
10. Lava and tuff tablelands
11. Ridges and saddles
12. Obsidian sources
13. Class I streams with former anadromous fish runs
14. Lava tubes and caves
15. Alluvial slopes
B. Medium probability areas include:
1. Geologic formations that could contain caves or overhangs
2. Promontories
3. Feeder ridges for trail systems
4. Floodplains and benches of intermittent streams
86.050 - SURVEY REQUIREMENTS
An application for a use or activity subject to the provisions of this article shall be
accompanied by  documentation identifying archaeological resources on the
affected site.  Documentation shall provide a determination of significance based
upon the following criteria:
A. The resource possess integrity of the original or historically evolved design,
setting, materials, workmanship,  feeling and one or more of the following
criteria apply:
1. The site is associated with events that have made a significant
contribution to the patterns of county history or prehistory;
2. The site is associated with the lives of significant persons or groups;
3. The site embodies distinctive characteristics of a style, type, period or
method of construction, or  possesses high artistic value s, or
represents a significant and distinguishable entity whose components
may lack individual distinction; or
4. The site has yielded, or may be likely to yield in formation important to
county history or prehistory.
B. Documentation Requirements .  Documentation from a professional
archaeologist as defined in ORS 97.740 or a duly authorized representative of
a Native American tribe.  Documentation shall include:
1. Time and date of the survey, and person(s) responsible;
2. Survey methodology;
86 - 3
3. A descript ion of published and unpublished reports consulted
regarding archaeological resources potentially present in the area;
4. Findings and a determination of significance; and
5. A discussion of adverse impacts and appropriate measures to mitigate
potential impacts.
86.060 - EFFECT OF SURVEY AND DETERMINATION
A. If a site is identified and is not determined significant, the proposed use or
activity may proceed without any  additional consideration to the
archaeological resource.
B. If a site is identified and determined to be significant, the following appropriate
measures shall be considered:
1. Avoid the site, unless demonstrated to be impracticable;
2. Bury or cover the site without disturbing it, unless demonstrated to be
impracticable; or
3. Redesign the pro ject to minimize impacts and excavate and recover
data from any disturbed area(s) at the developer's expense.
86.070 - POST-DEVELOPMENT DISCOVERY
A. If an archaeological object, deposit or artifact is discovered during any
development action, individuals shall report the discovery as soon as possible
to the Planning Department .  Requirements for reporting discoveries shall be
incorporated into any final decision on a permit application governed by this
article.
B. No development shall be delayed or halted w ithout the developer's or
landowner’s consent unless an Indian burial site is involved.
C. The Planning Department shall notify the appropriate Native American tribe,
the State Historic Preservation  Office, and other appropriate agencies or
individuals cha rged with archaeological resource preservation in  order that
the landowner and interested parties may negotiate and resolve any conflicts.
D. Any individual encountering archaeological resources in the course of any
development shall comply with  Oregon law  including ORS 358.905
(Archaeological Objects and Sites), 273.705 (Removal of Historic and  Other
Valuable Materials), 97.740 (Protection of Indian Graves) .  The relevant
Native American tribal  government may request to receive recovered non -
sacred artifac ts following research studies, subject to  approval of the
landowner or developer.
87 - 1
ARTICLE 87
HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES
87.010 - PURPOSE
The purpose of this article is to establish provisions for the review of
development proposals affecting identified historic properties.
87.020 - APPLICATION
A. This article shall apply to all buildi ngs and sites designated as significant ("1 -
C") in the Comprehensive Plan.   Said buildings and sites are declared
important historical resources.
B. A permit is required for alteration or demolition of any structure identified as
significant.
C. Alteration as used in this article means any addition to, removal of, or change
in the exterior part of a  structure, and shall include modification of the surface
texture, material or architectural detail of the exterior  part of the structure, but
shall not include paint color.
D. Nothing in this article shall be construed to prevent the ordinary maintenance
and repair of any exterior  architectural feature that does not involve a change
in design, material or external appearance .  Furthermore, this article does not
prevent the construction, reconstruction, alteration, restoration, demolition or
removal of any feature when the Building Official, State Fire Marshal or other
public official determines that emergency action is required for public safety.
87.030 - REVIEW PROCEDURE
A. A property owner or authorized agent may initiate a request for a permit for
alteration or demolition of a  historic structure by filing an application with both
the Building Official and Planning Department.
B. Applications for alteration or de molition of a historic structure shall be subject
to the Type II Administrative Review Procedure (Article 22).
C. In addition to the notice requirements as set forth for the Type II
Administrative Review Procedure, notice  shall be provided to appropriate
agencies as specified in Section 57.080.
87 - 2
87.040 - REVIEW CRITERIA
The review body shall approve an application for exterior alteration if the
proposal is determined to be  harmonious and compatible with the appearance
and character of the historical buildin g and shall disapprove  any application if
found detrimental as unsightly, grotesque or adversely affecting the architectural
significance, the integrity or historical appearance, and the educational and
historic value of the building.  The following criteria apply to exterior alterations to
historical buildings:
A. Retention of original construction - So far as practicable, all original exterior
materials and details shall be preserved.
B. Height - Additional stories may be added to historic buildings provided that:
1. The added height complies with requirements of the building and
zoning codes,
2. The added height does not exceed that which was traditional for the
style of the building.
3. The added height does not alter the traditional scale and proportion s of
the building style.
4. The added height is visually compatible with adjacent historic
buildings.
C. Bulk - Horizontal additions may be added to historic building provided that:
1. The bulk of the addition does not exceed that which was traditional for
the building style.
2. The addition maintains the traditional scale and proportion of the
building style.
3. The addition is visually compatible with adjacent historic buildings.
D. Visual Integrity of Structure - The lines of columns, piers, spandrels, and other
primary structural elements shall be maintained so far as is practicable.
E. Scale and Proportion - The scale and proportion of altered or added building
elements, the relationship of  voids to solids (windows to walls) shall be
visually compatible  with the traditional architectural character of  the historic
building.
F. Materials, Color and Texture - The materials, colors and texture used in the
alteration or addition shall be  visually compatible with the traditional
architectural character of the historic building.
G. Signs, Lighting and other Appurtenances - Signs, exterior lighting and other
appurtenances, such as walls,  fences, awnings, and landscaping shall be
87 - 3
visually compatible with the traditional architectural character of  the historic
building.
87.050 - REVIEW BODY ACTION FOR DEMOLITIONS
Based on the applicable review criteria, the review body shall take the following
action on proposals for demolition of a historic structure:
A. Delay issuance of the demolition permit for up to 90 days, du ring which the
Planning Director, together with appropriate agencies and interested persons,
shall attempt to determine if public or private acquisition  and preservation of
the structure is feasible, or if other alternatives are possible which could be
carried out to prevent demolition of the structure; or
B. Approve immediate issuance of the demolition permit if:
1. The structure cannot be economically rehabilitated; and
2. A program or project does not exist which may reasonably result in
preservation of the structure; and
3. Delay of the demolition permit would result in unnecessary and
substantial hardship to the applicant and property owner; and
4. Issuance of the demolition permit will not act to the detriment of the
public welfare considering the  economic, cultural and social
consequences of demolishing the structure.
ORD 45.0 Adopt February 16, 1984
ORD 45.54 Art. 88.020(C) Adopt October 12, 2005 Acknowledged November 4, 2005
 88 - 1
ARTICLE 88
DESTINATION RESORT OVERLAY
(DRO)
88.010 - PURPOSE
The purpose of the Destination Resort Overlay zone is to provide a process for
the siting of destination resorts  on rural lands that have been mapped by the
County as eligible for this purpose .  The Destination Resort  Overlay is intended
to provide for properly designed destination resort facilities which enhance and
diversify the  recreational opportunities and economy of Klamath County .  The
Destination Resort Overlay will ensure resort  development that complements the
physical attractiveness of an area without significant adverse effect on
commercial farming and forestry operations or the significant natural and cultural
features which contribute to the setting.
88.015 - APPLICABILITY
A. The provisions of this Article shall apply solely to development which meets
the standards set forth in  Section 88.030 or Section 88.035 .  Development
which meets the standards in Section 88.030 shall be  referred to hereafter as
destination resorts, and developmen t which meets the standards in Section
88.035 shall be referred to hereafter as small destination resorts .  Where
special standards or criteria are not specifically called out for small destination
resorts, the standards for destination resorts shall apply .  For a  destination
resort application, the standards and procedures of this Article shall govern in
cases where they  conflict with the standards or procedures of the underlying
zone.  Other provisions of this Code, made  applicable by specific map
designations such as Significant Resource Overlay (SRO), Airport Safety
Overlay (ASK), Airport Noise Overlay (ANK), Airstrip Safety Overlay (AS), and
Flood Hazard Overlay (FHZ), or  otherwise applicable under the terms of the
Land Development Code text shall remai n in full force and  effect, except as
otherwise specified herein.
B. Destination resorts shall be allowed only on tracts mapped by the County as
eligible for destination resort  siting and designated as such in the
Comprehensive Plan.
88.020 - DEFINITIONS
A. "Developed recreational facilities" means improvements constructed for the
purpose of recreation and may  include but are not limited to golf courses,
tennis courts, playing fields, interpretive centers, wildlife  observation shelters,
ORD 45.0 Adopt February 16, 1984
 88 - 2
nature trails, swim ming pools, marinas, ski trails, snowmobile trails, bicycle
paths, and indoor and outdoor sport facilities.
B. "Open space" means any land that is retained in a substantially natural
condition, or is improved for outdoor  recreational uses such as golf cour ses,
playing fields, hiking or nature trails or equestrian or bicycle paths, or  is
specifically required to be protected by a conservation easement .  Open
spaces may include ponds, lands  protected as important natural features,
lands preserved for farm or forest use, required landscaped areas and  lands
used as buffers .  Open space does not include residential lots or yards,
streets or parking areas.
C. "Overnight lodgings" means permanent, separately rentable accommodations
which are not available for  residential use.  Overnight lodgings include hotel
rooms, lodges, cabins and time -share units.  Individually owned units may be
considered overnight lodgings if they are available for overnight rental use by
the general public for at least 38 weeks per calendar  year through a central
reservation system operated by the  destination resort or by a real estate
property manager, as defined in ORS 696.010 .  Tent sites, recreational
vehicle parks, manufactured dwellings, dormitory rooms and similar
accommodations do no t qualify as  overnight lodgings for the purpose of this
definition.
D. "Self-contained development" means a development for which community
sewer and water facilities are  provided onsite and are limited to meet the
needs of the development or are provided by existing public  sewer or water
service as long as all costs related to service extension and any capacity
increases are borne by  the development .  A "self -contained development"
shall have developed recreational facilities provided onsite.
E. "Tract" means a lot or parcel or more than one contiguous lot or parcel in a
single ownership.  A tract on  which a destination resort is sited may include
property that is not included in the destination resort if the  property to be
excluded is on the boundary of th e tract and constitutes less than 30 percent
of the total tract.
F. "Visitor-oriented accommodations" means overnight lodging, restaurants and
meeting facilities which are  designed to provide mainly for the needs of
visitors rather than area residents.
88.030 - STANDARDS
A destination resort shall meet the following standards:

ORD 45.0 Adopt February 16, 1984
ORD 45.54 Art. 88.030(C) Adopt October 12, 2005 Acknowledged November 4, 2005
 88 - 3
A. Development shall be located on a tract that contains a site of at least 160
acres.
B. The site must have direct access onto a state or county roadway, as
designated by the Count y or the Oregon  Department of Transportation .
Standards shall be in accordance with Article 71 of this Code.
C. Development shall include meeting rooms, restaurants with seating for at
least 100 persons, and a minimum  of 150 separate rentable units for
overnight lodging, oriented toward the needs of visitors rather than area
residents.  However, the rentable units may be phased in as follows:
1. A total of 150 units of overnight lodging shall be provided as follows:
2. At least 50 units of overnight lodgin g must be constructed prior to the
closure of sale of individual lots or units.
3. At least 50 units of the remaining 100 required overnight lodging units
must be constructed or  guaranteed pursuant to Article 15 through
surety bonding or equivalent financi al assurances within 5 years of the
initial lots sales.
4. The remaining required overnight lodging units must be constructed or
guaranteed pursuant to Article 15 through surety bonding or equivalent
financial assurance within 10 years of the initial lot sales.
5. The number of units approved for residential sale shall not be more
than 2 ½ units for each unit of  permanent overnight lodging provided
under paragraph (2) of this subsection.
6. If the developer of a resort guarantees the overnight lodging units  be
required under paragraphs (3) and (4) of this subsection through surety
bonding or other equivalent financial assurance, the  overnight lodging
units must be constructed within 4 years of the date of execution of the
surety bond or other equivalent financial assurances.
D. All required developed recreational facilities, key facilities intended to serve
the entire development and  visitor-oriented accommodations shall be
physically provided or guaranteed pursuant to Article 15 through  surety
bonding or equ ivalent financial assurances prior to closure of sale of
individual lots or units .  In phased developments, developed recreational
facilities and other key facilities intended to serve a particular  phase shall be
constructed prior to sales in that phase or guaranteed through surety bonding.
Nothing in this subsection shall be interpreted to require the construction of all
ORD 45.0 Adopt February 16, 1984
 88 - 4
approved phases of a destination resort,  provided that the destination resort
as developed complies with the standards of this section.
E. At least $7 million shall be spent on improvements for onsite developed
recreational facilities and visitor  oriented accommodations exclusive of costs
for land, sewer and water facilities and roads .  Not less than one-third of this
amount shall be spent on developed recreational facilities.  Spending required
under this subsection is stated in 1993 dollars .  The spending required shall
be adjusted to the year in which calculations are made in accordance with the
United States Consumer Price Index.
F. Commercial uses are limited to those listed in Section 88.045(H) .  Such uses
must be internal to the resort,  and are limited to types and levels of use
necessary to meet the needs of visitors to the resort .  Industrial uses of any
kind are not permitted.
G. At least 50 percent of the site shall be dedicated to permanent open space,
excluding street and parking  areas.  Open space areas shall be maintained
as such in perpetuity through deed restrictions.
H. If the site includes a resource site designated on the  County's Goal 5
inventories as significant ("1C"), the  resource site shall be protected in
accordance with the adopted Goal 5 management plan for the site .  "3A" sites
shall also be preserved by a conservation easement sufficient to protect the
resource v alues of the  resource site .  Any conservation easement required
under this subsection shall be recorded with the property  records of the tract
on which the destination resort is sited prior to development of the phase of
which the resource site is a part.
I. Riparian vegetation within 100 feet of lakes, rivers, streams and designated
significant ("1C") wetlands shall be retained.
J. The standards of Chapter 60 apply to destination resorts, except as limited or
clarified as follows:
1. For purposes of applyi ng the standards of Chapter 60, development
under this Article shall be treated as  if it were zoned CR (Recreational
Commercial).
ORD 45.0 Adopt February 16, 1984
ORD 45.40 Art. 88.030(L)(1,2,& 3) Adopt September 24, 2001
ORD 45.48 Art. 88.030(L)(1 & 4) Adopt April 16, 2003
 88 - 5
2. All destination resorts, whether located inside or outside the UGB, shall
comply with the landscaping  standards of Article 65 for all visitor -
oriented accommodations and accessory uses (other than  temporary
uses).
3. The Planning Commission may alter any of the standards of Chapter
60 (except standards relating to  signs) applicable to a destination
resort if it determines that  the standards as altered are consistent with
public safety, preservation of open space, efficient provision of public
facilities and services, and will not  result in an adverse effect on
adjacent land uses.
K. Except where more restrictive minimum setback s are called for, the minimum
setback from exterior  property lines for all development (including structures
and site-obscuring fences of over three feet in height  but excepting existing
buildings and uses) shall be as follows:
1. 250 feet for commercial d evelopment listed in Section 88.045,
including all associated parking areas;
2. 150 feet for visitor -oriented accommodations other than single -family
residences, including all associated parking areas;
3. 50 feet for above -grade development other than that  listed in
subsections (1) and (2);
4. 25 feet for internal roads;
5. 50 feet for golf courses and playing fields;
6. 25 feet for jogging trails, nature trails and bike paths where they abut
private developed lots and no setback for where they abut public roads
and public lands;
7. The setbacks of this section shall not apply to entry roadways,
landscaping, utilities and signs.
L. The setback of a structure or building is the horizontal distance measured to
any part of the structure  including architectural features, from the property
line, and shall be:
1. Ten (10) feet for internal front yard setbacks unless the front yard is
adjacent to a common area.   Setback on a property with a depth of
common area to the front of twenty (20) feet or more is zero (0).  When
the common area is less than twenty (20) feet, the structure shall be
ORD 45.0 Adopt February 16, 1984
ORD 45.48 Art. 88.030(L)(1 & 4) Adopt April 16, 2003
 88 - 6
setback six (6) inches for  every foot less than twenty (20) feet .  A 90-
degree perpendicular measurement will be taken from the  front
property line at twenty (20) foot intervals al ong the front property line,
to identify the shallowest  depth of common area perpendicular to the
front property line .  This figure will be used to determine  the depth of
common area and the resulting front yard setback.
2. Five (5) feet for internal rear yard setbacks unless the rear yard is
adjacent to a common area .  Setback on  a property with a depth of
common area to the rear of 10 feet or more is zero (0) .  When the
common area is less than 10 feet, the structure shall be setback six (6)
inches for every foot less than 10 feet .  The distance of common open
space adjacent to a rear lot yard will be  measured at 10 -foot intervals
along the rear property line .  A 90-degree perpendicular measurement
will be taken from the rear property line to the nearest p oint of common
area.  This figure will be used to  determine the depth of common area
and the resulting rear yard setback.
3. Five (5) feet for internal side yard setbacks unless the side yard is
adjacent to a common area .  Setback on  a property with a dept h of
common area to the side of 10 feet or more is zero (0) .  When the
common area is less than 10 feet, the structure shall be six (6) inches
for every foot less than 10 feet .  The distance of common open space
adjacent to a side lot yard will be  measured at 10-foot intervals along
the side property line.  A 90-degree perpendicular measurement will be
taken from the side property line to the nearest point of common area .
This figure will be used to  determine the depth of the common area
and the resulting side yard setback.
4. Zero (0) feet for internal side yard setbacks on lots that measure less
than 4500 square feet, when  applicant has met building fire resistive
ratings.
88.035 - STANDARDS FOR SMALL DESTINATION RESORTS
In lieu of the standards set forth  in section 88.030, the standards set forth in this
section may be applied to a destination resort on land that is not zoned Exclusive
Farm Use, Forestry, or Forestry -Range in the County's  comprehensive plan, or
on land where there has been an exception to  any statewide planning goal with
respect to agricultural lands, forestlands, public facilities and services and
urbanization.
Developments which meet the following standards shall be considered small
destination resorts:
ORD 45.0 Adopt February 16, 1984
 88 - 7
A. The resort shall be located on a tract that contains a site of at least 20 acres.
B. The resort must provide lodging and other services oriented to a recreational
resource which can only  reasonably be enjoyed in a rural area .  Such
recreational resources include, but are not limited to,  a hot spring, a ski slope
or a fishing stream.
C. At least 25 units, but not more than 75 units, of overnight lodging shall be
provided.  A restaurant and meeting room with at least one seat for each unit
of overnight housing shall be provided.
D. At leas t $2 million shall be spent on improvements for onsite developed
recreational facilities and visitor  oriented accommodations exclusive of costs
for land, sewer and water facilities and roads .  Not less than one-third of this
amount shall be spent on developed recreational facilities.  Spending required
under this subsection is stated in 1993 dollars .  The spending required shall
be adjusted to the year in which calculations are made in accordance with the
United States Consumer Price Index.
E. Residential u ses shall be limited to those necessary for the staff and
management of the resort.
F. The resort shall be constructed and located so that it is not designed to attract
highway traffic .  Resorts shall  not use any manner of outdoor advertising
signing except:
1. Tourist oriented directional signs as provided in ORS 377.715 to
377.830; and
2. Onsite identification and directional signs.
G. Commercial uses are limited to those listed in Section 88.045(H) .  Such uses
must be internal to the resort,  and are limi ted to types and levels of use
necessary to meet the needs of visitors to the resort .  Industrial uses of any
kind are not permitted.
H. At least 50 percent of the site shall be dedicated to permanent open space,
excluding street and parking  areas.  Open space areas shall be maintained
as such in perpetuity through deed restrictions.
I. If the site includes a resource site designated on the County's Goal 5
inventories as significant ("1C"), the  resource site shall be protected in
accordance with the adopted Goal 5 management plan for the site.  "3A" sites
shall also be preserved by a conservation easement sufficient to protect the
ORD 45.0 Adopt February 16, 1984
 88 - 8
resource values of the resource site .  Any conservation easement required
under this subsection shall be  recorded with the prope rty records of the tract
on which the destination resort is sited prior to  development of the phase of
which the resource site is a part.
J. Riparian vegetation within 100 feet of lakes, rivers, streams and designated
significant ("1C") wetlands shall be retained.
K. The standards of Chapter 60 apply to small destination resorts, except as
limited or clarified as follows:
1. For purposes of applying the standards of Chapter 60, development
under this Article shall be  treated as if it were zoned CR (Recreati onal
Commercial).
2. All small destination resorts, whether located inside or outside the
UGB, shall comply with the  landscaping standards of Article 65 for all
visitor-oriented accommodations and accessory uses  (other than
temporary uses).
3. The Planning Commission may alter any of the standards of Chapter
60 (except standards relating to signs) applicable to a small destination
resort if it determines that the standards as  altered are consistent with
public safety, preservation of open space, and efficie nt provision of
public facilities and services, and will not result in an adverse effect on
adjacent land uses.
L. Except where more restrictive minimum setbacks are called for, the minimum
setback from exterior  property lines for all development (includin g structures
and site-obscuring fences of over three feet  in height but excepting existing
buildings and uses) shall be as follows:
1. 250 feet for commercial development listed in Section 88.045,
including all associated parking areas;
2. 150 feet for vis itor-oriented accommodations other than single -family
residences, including all associated parking areas;
3. 50 feet for above -grade development other than that listed in
subsections (1) and (2);
4. 25 feet for internal roads;
5. 50 feet for golf courses and playing fields;
ORD 45.0 Adopt February 16, 1984
 88 - 9
6. 25 feet for jogging trails, nature trails and bike paths where they abut
private developed lots and no setback for where they abut public roads
and public lands;
7. The setbacks of this section shall not apply to entry roadways,
landscaping, utilities and signs.
88.040 - PERMITTED USES
A. Visitor-oriented accommodations:
1. Overnight lodging;
2. Convention and conference facilities and meeting rooms;
3. Restaurants, lounges and similar eating and drinking establishments;
and
B. Developed recreational facilities:
1. Golf courses and clubhouses;
2. Indoor and outdoor swimming pools;
3. Indoor and outdoor tennis courts;
4. Physical fitness facilities;
5. Playing fields;
6. Equestrian facilities;
7. Interpretive centers;
8. Wildlife observation shelters;
9. Walkways, bike paths, jogging paths, equestrian trails, nature trails, ski
trails and snowmobile trails;
10. Marinas and boating facilities;
C. Residential accommodations:
1. Single-family dwellings;
2. Townhouses;
ORD 45.0 Adopt February 16, 1984
 88 - 10
3. Time share projects;
4. Living quarters for employees;
D. Open space;
E. Accepted agricultural and forestry practices as permitted in this Code;
F. Facilities necessary for public safety and utility service with in the destination
resort;
G. Other similar uses permitted in the underlying zone and consistent with the
purposes of this Article.
88.045 - ACCESSORY USES
The following accessory uses shall be permitted provided they are ancillary to the
destination resort and consistent with the purposes of this Article:
A. Visitor-related transportation facilities excluding airports but including heliports
and airstrips;
B. Emergency medical facilities not exceeding 2,000 square feet;
C. Storage structures and areas, inc luding short -term recreational vehicle
storage for resort visitors;
D. Kennels as a service for resort visitors only;
E. Recycling and garbage collection facilities;
F. Maintenance shops and facilities;
G. Dormitories;
H. Commercial services and specialty shops designed to provide for the visitors
to the resort:
1. Specialty retail shops including but not limited to drug and sundries
stores, clothing stores, book  stores, craft studios, art galleries, gift
shops, fast food and specialty food shops;
2. Barber shops, beauty salons, tanning salons, massage studios and
other similar personal services shops;
3. Automobile service stations limited to fuel sales, incidental parts sales,
minor repairs and minor maintenance;
ORD 45.0 Adopt February 16, 1984
 88 - 11
4. Banking and real estate offices;
5. Other similar commercial services which provide for the needs of resort
visitors and are consistent with the purposes of this Article.
I. Theaters for live performances;
J. Temporary uses, including temporary or seaso nal fairs, festivals, and charity
or promotional activities  consistent with the purposes of this Article, provided
that any temporary use must be approved as provided in Article 42;
K. Other similar accessory uses consistent with the purposes of this Article.
88.050 - APPLICATION PROCEDURES AND CONTENTS
A. Before submitting development plans for approval, an applicant proposing a
destination resort shall  conduct a pre -application conference with the
Planning Department to obtain general information,  guidelines, procedural
requirements, advisory opinions, and technical assistance for the project
concept.
B. Following a pre -application conference, the applicant shall submit a
preliminary development plan  for review by the Planning Commission .
Fifteen (15) copies of the preliminary development plan  shall be submitted to
the Planning Department along with a filing fee set by the Board of County
Commissioners to defray costs incidental to the review process.
C. The preliminary development plan shall contain the following elements:
1. Illustrations and graphics to scale, identifying:
a. The location and total number of acres to be developed as a
destination resort;
b. The subject area and all land uses adjacent to the subject area;
c. Types and general location of  proposed development and uses,
including residential and  commercial uses, together with
landscaping required by Article 65;
d. A general depiction of the characteristics of the site, including:
(1) Goal 5 resources on the County's comprehensive plan
inventory;
(2) Riparian vegetation;
ORD 45.0 Adopt February 16, 1984
 88 - 12
(3) Water areas, including streams, lakes, ponds and Division of
State Lands recognized wetlands;
(4) Existing topography.
e. Proposed methods of access to the development, identifying the
main vehicular circulation system within the resort and an indication
of whether streets will be public or private,  consistent with Article
71;
f. Preliminary parking plan consistent with Article 68;
g. Major trail systems;
h. The approximate location and number of acres proposed as open
space, buffer area or  common area .  Areas proposed to be
designated as "open space," "buffer area" or "common area" should
be clearly illustrated and labeled as such;
i. List of proposed recreational amenities and approximate location;
j. A conceptual water and sewer facilities plan for th e site consistent
with Article 74 or Article 75, whichever is applicable;
k. A conceptual site drainage plan consistent with Article 73.
2. An open space management plan, including:
a. Proposed deed restrictions that will assure that designated open
space areas are maintained as open space in perpetuity;
b. Proposed conservation easements to protect Goal 5 "3A" sites, as
required by Section  88.030(H) or Section 88.035(I), whichever is
applicable;
c. For any Goal 5 "1C" resource sites on the destination resort site, an
explanation of how the County's adopted management program will
be implemented;
d. A description of measures intended to mitigate project impacts on
fish and wildlife.
3. Further information as follows:
a. A written statement addressing how the proposed destination resort
satisfies the approval criteria of Section 88.060;
ORD 45.0 Adopt February 16, 1984
ORD 45.54 Art. 88.050(C) Adopt October 12, 2005 Acknowledged November 4, 2005
 88 - 13
b. A description of any proposed alterations in the applicable
development standards of Chapter 60, together with an explanation
of why the standards as altered would be  consistent with public
safety, preservation of open space, and efficient provision of public
facilities and services, and would not result in an adverse effect on
adjacent land uses.
c. A description of the proposed method of providing all utility
systems, including the preliminary or schematic location and sizing
of the utility systems.
d. A description of the proposed order and schedule for phasing (if
any) of all development  including an explanation of when facilities
will be provided and how they will be secured if  not completed prior
to the closure of sale of individual lots or units.
e. An assessment of the impact of the destination resort on fish and
wildlife, taking into account mitigation measures.
88.055 - PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN REVIEW PROCEDURE
A. Review of the preliminary development plan shall be in accordance with the
provisions of the Planning Commission Review Procedure (Article 26).
B. The Planning Commission may attach any conditions (including requirements
for improvement  assurances under Article 15) it deems necessary to the
preliminary development plan approval when reasonably related to applicable
standards and criteria and supported by substantial evidence in the  whole
record.
C. The Planning Commission shall require that the resort developer provide an
annual accounting to  document compliance with the overnight lod ging
standards of Section 88.030(C) .  The annual  accounting requirement shall
commence one year after the initial lot or unit sales .  The annual accounting
must contain:
1. Documentation showing that the resort contains a minimum of 150
permanent units of  overnight lodging or, during the phase -in period,
documentation showing the resort is  not yet required to have
constructed 150 units of overnight lodging.
2. Documentation showing that the resort meets the lodging ratio
described in Section 88.030(C)(5).
ORD 45.0 Adopt February 16, 1984
ORD 45.54 Art. 88.055(C)&(D) Adopt October 12, 2005 Acknowledged November 4, 2005
ORD 44.84 Art. 88.060(G) Adopt June 22, 2010 Acknowledged July 30, 2010
 88 - 14
3. For a resort counting individually owned units as qualified overnight
lodging units, the  number of weeks that each overnight lodging unit is
available for rental to the general  public as described in Section
88.020(C).
D. The Planning Commission shall i ssue a final order of its decision on the
preliminary development plan.
88.060 - APPROVAL CRITERIA
The Planning Commission shall approve a preliminary development plan for a
destination resort if it determines that all of the following criteria are met:
A. The tract where the development is proposed is eligible for destination resort
siting, as depicted on the acknowledged Destination Resort Overlay map.
B. The development meets the criteria established in section 88.030 or 88.035,
qualifying as a destination resort or a small destination resort, respectively.
C. The uses included in the destination resort are either permitted uses listed in
Section 88.040, or  accessory uses listed in Section 88.045 that are ancillary
to the destination resort and consistent with the purposes of this Article.
D. The development will be compatible with surrounding land uses, particularly
farming and forestry  operations.  A destination resort must not cause a
significant change in farm or forest practices on  surrounding lands o r
significantly increase the cost of accepted farm or forest practices.
E. The development will not have a significant adverse impact on fish and
wildlife, taking into account mitigation measures.
F. The development complies with other applicable standards  of the Land
Development Code.
G. Safe and efficient circulation shall be incorporated into the design for vehicles,
pedestrians, and bicyclists to the extent practical.
88.070 - FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN REVIEW PROCEDURE
A. No later than 2 years following ap proval of the preliminary development plan,
the applicant shall  submit for review a final development plan that meets the
requirements of Article 41 and addresses  all changes or conditions required
by the Planning Commission.  If the preliminary development plan approved a
phased development of the destination resort, the applicant shall submit the
final development plan for the first phase of development within 2 years
following approval of the  preliminary development plan.
ORD 45.0 Adopt February 16, 1984
 88 - 15
B. The Planning Director shall review a final development plan pursuant to
Article 41.  The Planning Director shall approve a final development plan if it
conforms to the approved preliminary  development plan and incorporates all
changes or conditions required by the Planning Commission.
C. If the Planning Director finds that the final development plan is materially
different from the  approved preliminary development plan, the applicant shall
submit an amended preliminary  development plan for review .  "Materially
different," as used in this subsection, means a change in  the type, scale,
location, or other characteristics of the proposed development such that
findings of fact on which the original approval was based would be materially
affected.  Submission of an  amended plan shall be considered in the same
manner as the original application, except that the review of an amended plan
shall be limited to aspects of the proposed development that are  materially
different from the approved preliminary development plan.  Submission of an
amended plan must be accompanied by a filing fee in the same amount as for
an original application.
88.075 - DURATION OF FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN APPROVAL
A final development plan approval shall become void if construction has not
commenced within two years after the date the approval became final.

ORD 45.92 Adopted August 6, 2018
 89 - 1
ARTICLE 89
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU)
89.010 - PURPOSE
The purpose of this article is to set forth the standards for the establishment of
permitted accessory dwelling unit(s) in conjunction with a single-family dwelling in
the identified residential zones within the Klamath Falls urban growth boundary
and within all single-family residential zones within the unincorporated portions of
the urban growth boundaries of the cities of Chiloquin,  Merrill, Malin and the
Town of Bonanza.

89.020 – PERMITTED USE
Accessory dwelling units are a permitted use and shall be reviewed via Article 41
– Site Plan Review.

89.030 – STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT(S)

1. One accessory dwelling unit, per lot or parcel, is allowed. A secondary
accessory dwelling unit can be added if one of the ADUs is within the
existing footprint of the dwelling.

2. The total impervious surface area on the parcel/lot shall not exceed 40%
of the total parcel/lot area.

3. Each accessory dwelling unit shall not exceed 800 square feet of floor
area, or more than 50 percent of the existing dwelling, whichever is
smaller. However, accessory dwellings that result from the conversion of a
level or floor (e.g., basement, attic, or second story) of the primary
dwelling may occupy the entire level or floor, even if the floor area of the
accessory dwelling would be more than 800 square feet.

4. Accessory dw ellings shall meet all other development standards (e.g.,
height and setbacks, except that conversion of an existing legal non -
conforming structure to an accessory dwelling is allowed, provided the
conversion does not increase the non-conformity.)

5. One additional off -street parking space is required for each accessory
dwelling unless it is within the existing footprint of the dwelling.

6. Accessory dwelling units shall not be manufactured homes.