COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
  BETWEEN INTERNATIONAL UNION OF
OPERATING ENGINEERS LOCAL 701 AND
          KLAMATH COUNTY

           FOR THE PERIOD OF
    JULY 1, 2023 THROUGH   JUNE 30, 2026
Contents
PrOAMble 5ssasencesesseascssnenevesssnseuelighavuasapacacdoviusssan0sassassiavpobielecs
                                            onsen eaussessapeansasots saloon sas oucusueseussussay eopesu ut whsueaseWssrebuea NOCNISENa 3
Article 1: Scope of Agreement and RECOQMIEION 0.0.0.0... ccc cecesessesesssesessssesescsessssescescerscscsesecsscscasecenecssssessassusasssssscasavessse 3
Article 2: Individual Rights and Union MeEMbership uuu... cscsesesesesssssssercssreesecesstcssesscescescssseveasssssscsraseseursesesasssecsesey’ 3
Article 3: Management Rights jissssssassissaszcascssscscessensssearsanentercoasveswiseisbstesvensccepsevscusuiaties
                                                                                   causes ccscuseascecSipaevbgeassavessiabscasaasssesiers 4
Article 4: Union Stewards uu... ccc                            see ccsesseestensesssscnsscsacscsacsseonsesssssssensssensassesssearensasacaseenesesovavanessesssssssusesneacecsessecesasees 4
Article 5: JOD S@CUrity 0.0 tecseseecsestsresssecesessenessesesssasscceersestscssseseassssasssepsnsesssecisseerssssensssssacscesscsencesscaesesseaserersetsesesese 5
Article 6: Strikes and LOCKOUS.....csscssscssssssecessssssssnsssssseceeccesssssnansnsessesesececceceessssssssssnssusssesnusecessesssstesseaseesses FHT                                     5
Article 7: Settlement of Disputes au... cccessecessssescsesssccsessesssserssssscessssrenseceessesscsesececesssececsessassnecsenssovsssesssacssssesensers 6
Article 8: Probationary Period... ecccssssssecsectsescsssesssecessocsenscosssavscenessensssasssssscnssssesscassnesssssetessecsssaseaesisaterssnesesssasetes 7
Article 9: Discipline and DiSCharge .u...... cee cesccesscessesenenensssssessseetsesssesscnscesseseccassestseccaresenssaneasscesnssacssssstessessaqacssssssses 8
Article 10: Hours Of Wo8k 0... eccscscsssecsecsccssececescassssesessetscsosscecssssssasessssenssssasessanesssesesssssecneasssneasanasscsvecissrescoesucasscsnensservess 9
Article 11: Holidays... rerrccconnsecessrnsecesensnsesesnerserssncesececenstanescessypnsonuteuistweh
                                                               lpivin shaqinayivaveesysecsbymapussinvetvbasis poupipIDapSuENSaiaRbU UI mboRey> 10
Article 12: Paid Time Off...                      ee ceseseseccessccecresscessstsessensessscacsuscaseevavenscessecessassescsssessesteersnassesessesssenssescaaensearsssnseesssesos 11
Article 13: Other Leaves Of ADSCNCE.......                             cc cseesesessececeeeeesesseesscseseeseeesnessescensesescarscacasseseessarasacesscnscatasetnesassescecsenensecsens 14
Article 14: Compensation 2... ccc eeccessscscssesesesessssstsssscnsesecssssessessnsecnsssasscsesscscasscassesssceusuesasessessssssessesesgarsnessssacsssessessees 14
Article 15: SeniOsity xisssccsccessassssssvecrsansscascsvscc tatsusstietssutctsotasaes teins civscvbidsetsasaev tae uaesbeves ieasiunis spasevaxiucissstsssssasteseigettoassbesazésess 17
Article 16: Health Laws and Safety M@aSures 0.0.0... ccecsscsscstscscscesenescscssessosscessssressersscsnesssscesrssesssseessesscsescesssvensesess 19
Article 17: Health Welfare and Retirement... cecccccessessssssssctesscesesessssesesasersecsesesesessssnsesessssesssscsesesessssessssesseseseers 20
Article 18: General Provisions 0.0... cc seecscsscsecessscsessecsesessecssssecssscsenesscsesssssessesesssescosensessenssesesessesesesecssessssseesececitsscerense 21
Article 19: Savings Clause and FUNGING uu. sseseeecesescecsesencescssarsnessassescessesnssssenssecesssssrsssesesesssenesanssssecussssesscsnseses 23
Article 20: Alcohol and Drug ADUSC.......                          ccc cstcsesecssesensrsicesnaeesssssscesnerreisssesensaesnsesssenesssascssesassenceserserasitsasarsensssensnes 24
Article 21. Term and Termination ssicseiscsssssssssvaccevasssoncssssvsncssavaxensasenshasnasnasvcosusoavenvevsvensveasniadssnivasesiesuesenvaitkanivsessoeosvostsnines 24
Article 22: Training Fund ou... cccsscssssscccecssessesssccesesencescscssecesescsassassesssssesesssssassvscscecssearassepsnssucasnusdgecsvssssesssssscesessesvaces 24
EXHIBIT “A sisssesasessssisaiccscasssascasacassstessounsssueszeoneavcnbsbvepsaiennensessdécsltstwaagtesnssdseloassvonptabsedlsetaivosvaisclenssledduccdiuedeatisesveedisivdcblets 25
EXHIBIT “B sicsicsvesrivccssseazecmnennavas spines tsaustsnscet asi aieiicnnsutadis bir iiehiteundsURBCb IA SOURE sas SUSSSTGIGI Sie testis tUbGuawipSBaiuewdoviaTaaesaavipassobes 26
EXHIBIT “C? v.ccesessssssssssssseerseseenscsescsssesessesesssesssnerspsesesnenenssesssasenessssuenessnensscsussscnspsnsannsnvenanecasecgsesseasesecsencscneesarcareceesnensarees 27
Signature Page srsivsscrssssssesescesmsrssessesawataaavecccuse
                              cea edsbesteaeaseossaseaseancatenuasacciuadectesaesauivevaaesauesvesadvlsdeaebensnsaabdaliadssdsasessbievdintte 29
                                              Preamble

This agreement is made and entered into by and between Klamath County, and the Public Works
Department — Road Division, hereinafter referred fo as the County, and International Union of
Operating Engineers, Local 701, hereinafter referred to as the Union, and is intended to cover rates of
pay, hours of work, fringe benefits and conditions of employment of employees covered by the
bargaining unit hereinafter described.

The parties agree as follows:

                    Article 1: Scope of Agreement and Recognition

Section 1. Scope of Bargaining Unit

The bargaining unit covered by this Agreement shall include regular full-time employees in the
County's Road Division, in all classifications currently listed in Exhibit “B’, and those that may be
added in accordance with Article 15, Section 3, excluding office, clerical and professional employees,
guards, and supervisors.
Section 2. Recognition
The County recognizes the Union as the exclusive collective bargaining representative for all
employees covered by this Agreement.
Section 3. Temporary or Seasonal Employees

The provisions of this Agreement shall not be applicable to temporary or seasonal employees (those
employees hired by the County for a short duration, not to exceed six months). The County shall
supply to the Union a list of the names of temporary or seasonal employees upon request. Regular
full-time employees shail not be laid off as a direct result of the employment of temporary or seasonal
employees. Where possible, regular full-time employees will be allowed to replace temporary or
seasonal employees by seniority and qualification rather than lose any regular or overtime hours.

                  Article 2: Individual Rights and Union Membership

Section 1. Nondiscrimination

The County and the Union jointly recognize that they are each required by law not to discriminate
against any person by reason of Union members, or the absence thereof, age, race, religion, color,
sex, national origin, ancestry, or other legal defined class of protection. This shall apply to hiring,
registration for employment, placement for employment, training, rates of pay or other forms of
compensation, layoff or termination, and application for admission to Union membership.
No employee shall be discriminated against for pursuing a grievance under the grievance procedure
as outlined in Article 7. No employee shall be discriminated against for Jawful Union activities.
Section 2. Union Membership
Membership or non-membership in the Union shall be the individual choice of employees covered by
this Agreement.
Section 3. Dues Check-off

The County agrees to deduct from the paycheck of each employee who has so authorized it the
monthly dues required of members of the Union, and that such payment will be made to the
International Union of Operating Engineers, Local No. 701, in an amountto be established by the
Union. Union dues are currently $30.00 per month. Authorization for such deduction shall be in
writing, signed by the employee, on forms furnished by the Union and may be revoked by the
employee upon written request. It is the responsibility of the member to ensure they pay union dues
while on unpaid leaves of absences of any time in order to maintain their status.

                                Article 3: Management Rights

The County retains all the customary, usual and exclusive rights, decision making, prerogative,
functions, and authority connected with or in any way incident to its responsibility to manage the
affairs of the County or any part of it. The rights of employees in the bargaining unit and the Union
hereunder are limited to those specifically set forth in this Agreement, and the County retains all
prerogatives, functions, and rights not specifically limited by the specific terms of this Agreement. The
exercise of any management prerogative, function, or right, which is not specifically modified by this
Agreement, is not subject to the grievance procedure, to arbitration, or to bargaining during the term
of this Agreement.

                                   Article 4: Union Stewards

Section 1.

The Union may appoint a job steward, or stewards, not to exceed a total of three (3). Activities by a
job steward shall not interfere with their normal duties or the performance of other employees. The
job steward shall be a regular full-time employee who shall, in addition to their regularly assigned
work, perform the duties set forth herein, as long as such may be accomplished without disruption or
interference with the work of others.

    a) To bring to the attention of the County or the Union, or both, any alleged infraction of the terms
       and conditions of this Agreement.
    b) To make a good faith effort to resolve individual employee grievances as they may arise by
       working in cooperation with the employee and their immediate supervisor.
Section 2.
The Union shall notify the County in writing of the appointment of any job stewards.
Section 3.
Any steward shall have the right to solicit membership from employee(s), or investigate conditions, or
employee grievances under this Agreement so long as such activity shall not disrupt or interfere with
4
their normal duties or the performance of other employees. Any other authorized representative of the
Union shall have the right to visit job sites for the purpose of administering this Agreement. Where
possible the Road Division Superintendent or the supervisor in charge at the job site shall be notified
and every attempt shall be made not to interfere with the work by employees covered by this
Agreement.
Section 4.

No employee shall be discriminated against for pursuing the grievance procedure as outlined in
Article 7. No employee shall be discriminated against for lawful Union activities. Stewards shall not be
discharged or laid off for performing duties as job steward in accordance with this Article.

                                      Article 5: Job Security

Section   1.

The employees shall keep the Road Division Superintendent and the County Human Resources
Department informed of their address. Any employee who has been laid off and who fails to report to
work within seven (7) working days after receiving notification to report to work shall be considered a
voluntary quit, notice shall be sent by US Postal Service certified letter. The County shall have fulfilled
its obligation hereunder when notification to report to work was sent to the last known address given
to the County by the employee.

                                Article 6: Strikes and Lockouts

Section 1.

The Union and its members, as individuals or as a group, will not initiate, cause, permit, or participate
or join in any strike, work stoppage, slowdown, picketing, or any other restriction of work at any
location in the County. It is agreed that no picket line or labor dispute will affect the continued
performance of Road Division functions by employees covered by this Agreement as directed by the
County.
Section   2.

In the event of a strike, work stoppage, slowdown, picketing, observance of a picket line, or other
restriction of work in any form against the County, either on the basis of individual choice or collective
employee conduct, the Union will immediately upon notification attempt to secure an immediate and
orderly return to work. This obligation and the obligations set forth in Section 1 above shall not be
affected or limited by the subject matter involved in the dispute giving rise to the stoppage or by
whether such subject matter is or is not subject to the grievance and arbitration provisions of this
Agreement.
Section 3.

There will be no lockout of employees in the unit by the County as a consequence of any dispute
arising during the period of this Agreement.
                               Article 7: Settlement of Disputes

Section 1. Grievance and Arbitration Procedure

Any grievance which may arise between the parties concerning the application, meaning, or
interpretation of this Agreement shall be settled in the following manner, with the understanding that
the Union and the Road Division Superintendent encourage employees and their immediate
supervisors to mutually attempt to resolve any problems prior to filing a formal grievance. Oral
warnings or oral reprimands are not considered to be discipline and may not be protested through the
grievance procedure.

                                                  STEP 1
Since it is the wish of both parties to this Agreement to settle any alleged grievance in the most
expeditious and informal manner possible, a grievant shall take up an alleged grievance with their
immediate foreman within seven (7) calendar days of the occurrence (or when the grievant should
have reasonably

been aware of the occurrence) giving rise to the grievance. The foreman shall meet with the grievant
within seven (7) calendar days following receipt of the written grievance. The foreman shall then
attempt to adjust the matter within seven (7) calendar days of the meeting.
                                                  STEP 2
If the grievance has not been resolved at Step One, it shall be presented to the Road Division
Superintendent or their designee by the Steward or Union representative within seven (7) calendar
days of the date the Foreman's response is due. All grievances presented at this step shail set forth:
the facts giving rise to the grievance, the provision(s) of the Agreement alleged to have been violated,
the names of the aggrieved employees, and the remedy being sought. The Road Division
Superintendent shall conduct such investigation or hearing as is deemed       necessary and shall
respond in writing to the Union within seven (7) calendar days after receipt of the grievance.
                                                  STEP 3
If the grievance still remains unadjusted, it shall be presented by the Union representative to the
County Director of Public Works, or their designee(s) within seven (7) calendar days after the
response of the Road Division Superintendent is due. The County Director of Public Works or their
designee(s) shall respond in writing to the Union representative within seven (7) calendar days after
receipt.

                                                  STEP 4
If the grievance is still unsettled, the Union may, within seven (7) calendar days after the response of
the County Director of Public Works, or in the absence of a response, the date on which it is due, by
written notice to the County Director of Public Works, or their designated representative, request final
and binding arbitration of the dispute as provided herein.
The Oregon State Employment Relations Board shall be requested to submit a list of seven (7)
names of Oregon/Washington arbitrators. Both the County Director of Public Works and the Union
shall have the right to strike three (3) names from the list. The parties shall flip a coin to determine

6
which strikes the first name and thereafter shall alternate until there is only one remaining   person and
the remaining person shall be the Arbitrator.
The designated Arbitrator shall set a time and place for the hearing which is agreeable to both
parties. Expenses for the Arbitrator shall be borne by the losing party; however, each party shall be
responsible for compensating its own representatives and witnesses. If either party desires a
verbatim recording of the proceedings, it may cause such a record to be made, provided it pays for
the record and makes a copy available without charge to the Arbitrator. If the other party desires a
copy, both parties shall jointly share the cost of the transcript and all the copies. The time limits
prescribed in this Article shall be binding on all parties and shall be jurisdictional in nature unless
extended by mutual consent. If at any time an employee or the Union fails to timely proceed in the
next step, the matter shall be deemed to have been withdrawn and neither party shall be obligated to
consider the grievance further, unless the time periods provided herein are extended by written
agreement of the parties. If at any step, the County fails to respond within
the time period allotted, the grievance shall be deemed denied by the County and the Union may
proceed to the next step. The Arbitrator shall have the authority to consider only a claim based upon
specific provision of this Agreement and shall have no authority to add to, modify, or detract from this
Agreement. Any decision of the arbitrator within the scope of the Agreement shall be final and binding
upon the Parties.

Section   2.

The County Director of Public Works or their designee(s) shall meet at mutually convenient times with
the Union stewards to discuss safety issues affecting the Road Division.

                                 Article 8: Probationary Period

Section   1.

The probationary period is an integral part of the employee selection process and provides the
County with the opportunity to upgrade and improve the road department by observing a new
employee's work, training new employees, and assisting new employees in adjusting to their
positions, and by providing an opportunity to reject any employee whose work performance fails to
meet required work standards.

Section 2.

Every new employee who serves a probationary period of twelve (12) months of work shall become a
regular full-time employee. Employees having less than twelve (12) months of employment shall be
probationary employees and shall be covered by this Agreement as specified herein.
Section   3.

The Union recognizes the right of the County to terminate the employment of a probationary
employee for any reason and to exercise all rights not specifically modified by this Agreement with
respect to such employees, including but not limited to, the shifting of work schedule or job
classifications, and the requirement that such employees attend training programs, including on their
off duty time, for which they will be compensated on a straight-time basis where such attendance is
directed and approved by the County.
7
                             Article 9: Discipline and Discharge

Section 1. Discipline
Disciplinary action, including discharge, may be imposed upon any employee for just cause
connected with their employment. Any disciplinary’ action imposed upon employees shall be
protested only as a grievance through the regular grievance procedure. If the County Director of
Public Works or other supervisory employee has reason to discipline any employee, he shall impose
such discipline in a manner that will not unduly embarrass or humiliate the employee before other
employees or the public. Oral reprimands which may lead to formal disciplinary action, such as
suspension or discharge, shall upon employee request, be administered with a job steward present.
This is not intended to cover routine job- related counseling and direction. Although disciplinary action
typically should be progressive in nature, it may start at any level including discharge for more serious
offenses such as, but not limited to, theft of property, drug and alcohol violations, or flagrant
insubordination.
Section 2. Discharge

Any probationary employee shall serve at the pleasure of the County. Regular full-time (non-
probationary) employees shall be discharged only for just cause as set forth in Section 1 above. The
protest of any discharge shall be made only through the grievance procedure set forth in Article 7.
The Union may process a grievance concerning suspension or discharge, or both, beginning at Step
3 of the grievance procedure.

Section 3.

Counseling Statements (EXHIBIT C) and letters of reprimand will remain in an employee's personnel
record for a period of three (3) years at which time an employee has the right to submit a request to
the Public Works Director to have a record of written letter of reprimand permanently removed from
the employee's personnel record. The request will then be evaluated by both the Public Works
Director and the Human Resources Director on a case-by-case basis and a decision rendered. The
determination of the Public Works Director and the Human Resources Director will be final. If denied,
the employee has the right to make a new request after an additional twelve (12) months’ time has
elapsed.
Section 4.

A copy of a written employee Counseling Statement or reprimand letter shail be provided to the
employee with sufficient time to allow the presence of a union steward at the disciplinary meeting
between the Supervisor and the employee.

Section 5. GPS Equipment and Video Cameras
The parties acknowledge that GPS equipment and/or video cameras are installed in County vehicles
and that this data may be utilized for purposes of employee investigations and discipline. The County
will not randomly review video, GPS, or other electronic data for the purpose of disciplining
employees.
                                  Article 10: Hours of Work

Section 1. Workweek

The sole purpose of this Article is to provide a basis for the computation of compensation, and
nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as a guarantee or commitment by the County to any
employee of a minimum or maximum number of hours per day, per week, or per year.
The normal workweek, to the extent consistent with operating requirements of the Road Division, and
recognizing the necessity for continuous services by that Division throughout the week and in
emergencies, as determined by the County Director of Public Works, shall consist of five (5)
consecutive days as scheduled by the County Director of Public Works, except that the County may
institute, once per calendar year, a work schedule of four (4) consecutive ten (10) hour days.
Employees shall be notified at least ten (10) days in advance of any change in the commencement or
cancellation of this schedule.

Section 2. Regular Hours

 The regular hours of work each day shall be consecutive, except for interruptions for meal periods
which shall be on an employee's own time, except as described in Section 4 below.
Section   3. Work   Schedules

The normal work schedule shall consist of eight (8) hours of work per day or ten (10) hours of work
per day in the case of a four (4) day workweek schedule. All employees shall be scheduled to work
on a regular shift and each shift shall have regular starting and quitting times, provided that the
County Director of Public Works may revise such regular starting and quitting times as hereinafter
provided and may direct overtime work as required by the operating needs of the Division. Work
schedules showing the employees’ normal shift, workdays, hours, and location shall be posted on
Road Division bulletin boards. Except as provided above for changes in the workweek and for
situations determined in the judgment of the County Director of Public Works to be emergencies,
changes in work schedules shall be posted at least seventy-two (72) hours prior to the effective date
of any change. In case of adverse working conditions or other unpredictable conditions, work
schedules may be canceled, modified or terminated at the option of the County. In such cases a
reasonable attempt will be made to notify such affected employee(s) as soon as practicable.

Section 4. Mea!     Periods

All employees shall be granted a one-half (1/2) hour uncompensated meal period during each work
shift. To the extent consistent with operating requirements of the Road Division, mea! periods shall be
scheduled at or about the middle of the work shift. Employees whose regularly scheduled shift begins
between 3:00 p.m. and 3:00 a.m. shall have a regular work shift consisting of seven and one-half (7
1/2} hours worked and one-half hour compensated lunch period for which eight (8) hours shall be
paid.
Section 5. Rest Break

Employees shall be entitled to a mid-morning and mid-afternoon rest break not to exceed ten (10}
minutes each. Each of the two (2) breaks shall be taken at a time determined by the job supervisor.
Employees working together may be required to take their breaks at a particular location, time and
9
separate from other employees as determined by the supervisor in order to promote efficiency at the
job site and unnecessary disruption of work.

                                         Article 11: Holidays

Section 1. Recognized Holidays

The following shall be recognized as holidays:
                                   New Year's Day      Labor Day
                        Martin Luther King, Jr. Day    Veterans’ Day
                                    Presidents’ Day    Thanksgiving Day
                                      Memorial Day     Day After Thanksgiving
                                         Juneteenth    Christmas Day
                                Independence Day

Section 2. Eligibility for Holiday Pay
Regular full-time and probationary employees who work the last regularly scheduled day before and
the first regularly scheduled day after any of the above-named holidays shall be eligible for holiday
pay, unless such days were not worked due to a valid sickness of the employee. Upon request of the
County an employee shall be required to verify sickness by doctor's certification.

Section 3. Holiday Pay
Eligible employees shall receive one day’s pay for each of the holidays listed above on which they
perform no work.
Section 4. Weekend Holidays
While on the five (5) day schedule, whenever a holiday falls on Saturday, the preceding Friday shall
be observed as the holiday; and whenever a holiday falls on Sunday, the succeeding Monday shall
be observed as the holiday. While on the four (4) day schedule, whenever a holiday falls on Friday or
Saturday, the preceding Thursday will be observed as the holiday; and whenever a holiday falls on
Sunday, the succeeding Monday shall be observed as the holiday. If an employee is on authorized
vacation when a holiday occurs, such holiday shall not be charged against such vacation and an
additional day off may be scheduled by mutual agreement between the employee and the supervisor.
Section 5. Holiday During Leave
Should an employee be on authorized leave when a holiday occurs, such holiday shall not be
charged against such leave. In such event, the employee may, upon prior notice and approval by the
County, schedule one additional consecutive day of leave and be paid for the holiday. If an additional
consecutive day of leave is not approved by the County the employee may, upon mutual consent,
reschedule such day at a later date. No employee shall be compensated twice for the same holiday.
Section 6. Holiday Work
If an employee works on any of the holidays listed above, they shall, in addition to holiday pay, be
paid for all hours worked at the rate of time and one-half their regular straight time hourly rate of pay.

10
                                      Article 12: Paid Time Off

Section 1. Purpose
Klamath County understands that there are many personal reasons an employee may need to take
time off, other than sick or vacation. In the spirit of flexibility, Klamath County will award a PTO bank
as provided below for employees to take time off as needed. Piease note that this PTO bank covers
the required 40 hours of sick leave guaranteed through Oregon Sick Leave.
PTO is a flexible plan that can be customized by each individual to their time off needs. Because PTO
allows employees to accrue one kind of time (PTO), this can be used like sick leave and vacation
nleave in any proportion an employee may see fit.

PTO can also be used for other activities in which sick leave would not be appropriate, such as
school activities, daycare issues, and extended bereavement.
PTO is being implemented to provide more flexibility for employees. Klamath County values trust and
integrity in the workplace and allow employees to assume responsibility for how they use their time
off. PTO also eliminates managers and supervisors from having to determine what qualifies for sick
leave and what does not.

Section 2. Scope
All full-time employees are eligible for the PTO bank. Half-time employees (20+ hours per week) will
accrue at a pro-rated amount, equal to or greater than the Oregon Sick Leave requirement.
This policy does not apply to less than half-time employees (see Oregon Sick Leave policy),
independent contractors, state or federal work training participants, work study participants,
volunteers, and employees contracted through a temporary staffing agency.
This policy replaces all other sick leave, vacation leave and floating holidays unless otherwise noted
or required through the bargaining group.
Section 3. Policy
During absences from work, eligible employee wages will be continued for the amount of time
accrued in the employee’s PTO account.
PTO will be accrued at the following rates beginning July 1, 2023. The maximum accrual rate
depends on hire date and bargaining unit.
°         For years 1-5, the accrual rate will be at 8.67 hours per pay period.

°         For years 6-10 (beginning at 5-year anniversary), the accrual rate will be at 9.67 hours per pay
period.
.      For years 11-15 (beginning at 10-year anniversary), the accrual rate will be at 11.17 hours per
pay period.
°      For years 16-19 (beginning at 15-year anniversary), the accrual rate will be at 12.5 hours per
pay period.

11
°      For years 20+ (beginning at 19-year anniversary), the accrual rate will be at 13.34 hours per
pay period.
Employees as of June 30, 2023 will have any hours remaining in their sick and vacation banks rolled
over into their PTO bank. For those that have sick leave and vacation leave that exceeds the
maximum allowed amount for their group, employees may keep excess sick leave in their sick leave
bank to use for sick leave after an absence of more than 3 consecutive days.
Upon separation, employees are eligible for the following payout based on years of service:
e      For years 1-5, maximum payout is 160 hours.

.      For years 6-10 (complete 5 full years), maximum payout is 240 hours.
.      For years 11-15 (complete 10 full years), maximum payout is 288 hours.
°      For years 16-20 (complete 15 full years), maximum payout is 352 hours.

.      For years 21-25 (complete 20 full years), maximum payout is 400 hours.
Overtime is not included as time worked in the calculation. Paid time off and holidays are included as
time worked for purposes of this section.
An employee is allowed to use any or all of the employee’s choice of paid sick leave or PTO to allow
the employee to provide care for a family member with a mental or physical illness, injury, or health
condition; orto care for a family member who needs preventive medical care. Family member in this
case is equivalent to the OFLA family member definition.
If an employee is denied a request for PTO due to staffing or business concerns, and the denial
would result in the employee’s accrual exceeding the maximum allowed, the employee shall not lose
the accrual at that time. The employee has until the end of the fiscal year to utilize any PTO over the
maximum accrual. Any remaining amount over the maximum accrual as of July 1st will be forfeited.

Section 4. Procedure

Planned versus Unplanned time off: Planned time off is when the employee has made a request and
has been approved for time off in advance of taking the time. These would include things such as
vacations, scheduled medical absences, other scheduled appointments and other absences for which
time off is requested and approved in advance of the immediate need.
Unplanned time off is for when the employee requests time off without prior notice, such as for
emergencies, including but not limited to illness, transportation, or child care issues. An employee
must keep their department head informed of their condition if unplanned use of PTO is more than
three (3) working days in duration. Unplanned PTO that does not fall under a protected leave
category which interferes with job performance or County operations may subject the employee to
corrective action.
When reasonably possible, an employee shall notify their supervisor at least two hours before the
start of the scheduled work shift if the employee is unable to report to work as scheduled. Notice must
be given either in person, via phone call, or via text. Department managers may authorize a shorter
notice timeline or other notice methodology.

12
Employees requesting time off for personal reasons shall provide their supervisor with as much
advanced notice as possible. If insufficient notice is given, supervisors may deny personal PTO
requests based on department needs.
Depending on the length and circumstances of absence, a physician’s release may be required upon
returning to work.
In certain cases, FMLA or OFLA may apply. Please referto HR Policy #315 for more information on
this type of leave.
Section 5. PTO Donations

Employees can elect to share PTO according to current policy. All PTO donation requests must be
requested by the department head and approved by the HR Director.
Section 6. Conversion of Sick Leave Accruals

All employees will have their sick leave accruals transferred into their PTO bank except in the case
where the sick leave and vacation leave exceeds the employee’s maximum accrual. If the conversion
exceeds the maximum PTO accrual, then excess hours will be kept in the employee’s sick leave bank
to use for sick leave purposes extending longer than 3 days.

Section 7. PTO Maximum Exceptions and Payouts
Employees may request no less than 40 hours and no more than 80 hours of PTO in a fiscal year to
be paid out at 100% of hourly wage. PTO may only be paid out if the employee has used at least 40
hours of PTO in the fiscal year. In the event that at least 40 hours of PTO was requested but denied
by a supervisor, the 40-hour use rule is void for payout.
SECTION 8. Scheduling

Employees shall be permitted to request either a split or single vacation. Whenever possible,
consistent with the County Director of Public Works’ judgment as to the needs and requirements for
vacation relief, employees may schedule their vacation times. Subject to such requirements, vacation
time shall be scheduled between employees on the basis of seniority, provided, however, each
employee will be permitted to exercise seniority only once each year. The County shall have the final
determination of vacation time based on operations and the availability of vacation relief. An
employee shall notify the County Road Division Superintendent in writing of their scheduling request
not later than thirty (30) days prior to the start of the requested vacation, and the County shall make a
final determination on the vacation time request not less than fourteen (14) days prior to the start of
the requested vacation. Some flexibility shall be provided to employees when the ability to provide
advance notice is not possible. Exceptions to this section may be granted by the Director of Public
works or their designee.
Section 9. Additional Accrual in 2023

To honor the floating holiday that would have been accrued on July 1, 2023 for those employees who
met the requirements previously outlined in Article 11 Section 7, the County shall award an additional
eight (8) hours of PTO to their accrual banks upon ratification. This provision will only apply to year
one of the contract. No additional accrual! will be awarded after the first year of the contract.

13
                            Article 13: Other Leaves of Absence

Section 1. Leave of Absence

Leaves of absence without pay for a limited period, not to exceed thirty (30) calendar days, shall be
granted for any reasonable purpose where in the judgment of the County Director of Public Works,
provided that the work of the Road Division will not be seriously handicapped by the temporary
absence of the employee requesting such leave. Any such leave must be consistent with the needs of
the County and must be approved by the Board of Commissioners or designee. At the discretion of
the County Director of Public Works, upon written request by the affected employee, such leave may
be renewed or extended for any reasonable period. No leave will be granted to an employee to
accept employment in any other capacity, except military duty.

Section 2. Jury Duty
Regular full-time employees shall be granted leave with full pay, computed on the basis of eight (8) or
ten (10) hour day pay per day, whichever is applicable, at the employee's regular straight time hourly
rate anytime they are required by summons or subpoena to report for jury duty or jury service. An
eligible employee shall endorse any fee to the County as a condition to receipt of jury pay, except
when compensated for jury duty on regularly scheduled days off.

Section 3. Witness Duty

Leave with pay shall be granted for an appearance connected with an employee's official duties
before a court, legislative committee, judicial or quasi-judicial body as a witness in response to
subpoena; however, the regular straight time salary paid to such employee shall be reduced by an
amount equal to any compensation he may receive as witness fees, except when compensated for
witness duty on regular scheduled days off.
Section 4. Parental Leave

Employees shall be entitled to parental leave as required by Oregon and Federal law.
Section 5. Bereavement      Leave

All regular, full-time and probationary employees may be granted not more than five (5} days of paid
bereavement leave in the event of death in the immediate family of the employee. An employee's
immediate family shall include those individuals identified by FMLA and/or OFLA Bereavement leave
under this Section shall run concurrently with bereavement leave utilized in accordance with OFLA.

                                    Article 14: Compensation

Section 1. Wages
Employees shall be compensated in accordance with the salary schedule attached to this Agreement
and marked (Exhibit "A”) and Article 15, Section 10, Miscellaneous.

14
Section 2. Cost of Living Adjustment
Effective for the contract period of July 1, 2023 through June 30, 2024, the starting wage for EHO2,
Step 1, will be $22.00. The new salary table will be built off of this grade/step, with a 4% increase for
steps and a 5% increase for grades (see Exhibit “A”). For the contract period of July 1, 2024 through
June 30, 2025, wages shall be increased by 4%. For the contract period of July 1, 2025 through June
30, 2026, wages shall be increased by 4%.
Section 3. New Classifications

When a position not listed on the division classification schedule, Exhibit "B" is established, the
County shall designate a job classification and pay rate for the position. The Union shall be notified
and, within seven (7) days of such notice, shall be afforded an opportunity to meet and discuss the
matter. If the Union does not agree that the rate set for the classification is proper it may, within seven
(7) days of such notice, submit the issue as a grievance under the procedures of Article 7 and the
arbitrator may determine the proper rate.

Section 4. Reporting Time

Any employee who reports to work for their scheduled shift, but where work is not available, and the
employee was not notified prior to leaving home for work, shall be excused from duty and paid for two
(2) hours at their regular hourly rate. This provision shall not apply if the County has attempted to
notify the employee not to report at least thirty (30) minutes prior to their normal reporting time, or in
the case of an attempt to notify any employee residing more than twenty (20) miles from the
employee's place of reporting to work must be made at least forty five (45) minutes prior to reporting
time. Each full time employee shall maintain a telephone and advise the County Road Division
Superintendent of the current telephone number and of any changes in that number. Failure to do so
shall be a violation of this Agreement .and additionally shall result in forfeiture of any right to show up
pay provided in this Section.
Section 5. Call Back Time

Any employee called back to work after completing their regular scheduled shift on that day shall be
paid for a minimum of two (2) hours at the rate of time and one half (1 1/2).
Section 6. Overtime

Employees covered by this Agreement shall be compensated at one and one half (1 1/2) times their
regular straight time hourly rate under the following conditions, but in no event shall compensation be
received twice for the same hours worked:
       (a) All authorized work performed in excess of eight (8) hours on any eight (8) hour shift or ten
           (10) hours on any ten (10) hour shift;
       (b) All authorized work performed on the sixth (6) and seventh (7) day of a five (5) day
          workweek or the fifth (5), sixth (6) or seventh (7) days of a four (4) day workweek shall be
          compensated at one and one half (1 1/2) times the employee’s regular straight time hourly
          rate;

       (c) Regardless of the total number of hours worked in a week, holidays, sick, vacation, and
           floating holidays are considered hours worked for purposes of calculating overtime
           (recognizing that there shall be no pyramiding of compensation). Hours paid as daily
15
            overtime are not included in the computing of hours worked for purposes of weekly
            overtime.
Section 7. Distribution of Overtime

(a) Overtime work shall be performed as directed by the County Director of Public Works. To the
    extent consistent with the operating needs of the Road Division, overtime work shall be distributed
    as equally as is reasonable among employees with comparable skills within the same job
    Classification, as determined by the County Director of Public Works.
(b) Where possible, temporary or seasonal employees shall not be assigned overtime without first
     offering all qualified regular employees the work in order of seniority.

(c) Where possible, regular full-time employees will be allowed to replace temporary or seasonal
    employees by seniority and qualification rather than lose any regular or overtime hours.
(d) Overtime work shall be scheduled by the County as deemed necessary to accomplish work
    schedules and to meet emergency needs. Upon notification of overtime work prior to completion
    of an employee's shift, such employee shall perform such overtime as may be directed by the
     County. A record of overtime hours worked and pay received by each employee shall be printed
     on their check stub. The County will provide individual employees exception pay and exception
     pay overtime reports upon request.

Section 8. Temporary Assignment/Exception Pay

An employee's pay rate shall not be decreased when temporarily assigned work at a lower rate of
pay. Employees temporarily working in a classification paying a higher rate of pay shall be paid the
higher rate, except when filling in for the Equipment Procurement Specialist unless that time is
assigned for more than a two-week period. If an employee is assigned to a piece of equipment on the
board, they will be paid for the time they are assigned to that equipment. An employee must possess
the correct endorsement to work in a higher classification.
Section 9. Longevity Pay

The purpose for longevity pay is to reward eligible employees for their years of service with Klamath
County. All regular full-time and half-time employees with the minimum required years of services,
based on the employee's date of hire, and the schedule below are eligible for longevity pay:
 YEARS OF SERVICE           YEARLY LONGEVITY PAY
 15 years                   One (1) Additional Floating Holiday (Included in PTO)
 20 years                   Bonus pay of 2% on base pay in addition to the Floating Holiday
                            (Included in PTO)
25 years                    Bonus pay of 4% on base pay in addition to the Floating Holiday
                            (Included in PTO)
 30 years                   Bonus pay of 6% on base pay in addition to the Floating Holiday
                            (Included in PTO)

16
Section 10. Miscellaneous Compensation Provisions
(a) Two Worker Teams — On the pieces of equipment listed below, one employee shall be assigned
    and responsible for the operation of the equipment, and the second employee assigned shall be
    designated the helper or assistant and will be paid for one half (1/2) the day's hours at the higher
    division rate of pay.
     Crack sealing machine
     Distributor truck
     Sander truck

(b) Lead Pay — Employees in any classification who are assigned to perform supervisory work in a fill
    in or training capacity, or lead on any crew will be paid a premium of one dollar ($1.00) per hour
    for all hours of work in any such assignment. There shall be no lead at any location unless
     specifically assigned by the Foreman or Road Superintendent. Lead shall have the authority to
     assign and direct the work of other employees on the crew.
(c) Overnight Stay - Employees who are required to stay overnight at the worksite in connection with
    Road Division activities shall be provided room and board or, at the County's discretion, per diem
    in lieu thereof.

                                           Article 15: Seniority

Section       1. Definition

Seniority is applicable to regular, full-time, non-probationary bargaining unit employees who have
continuous service within the Road Division.
        (a) Seniority is defined as the total length of service as an employee with the County Road
               Division.

        (b) Employees shall lose seniority in the event of voluntary termination, discharge for cause, a
            layoff period greater than thirteen (13) months, failure to report to work at the termination of
               an extended leave of absence, acceptance of employment without permission while on a
               leave of absence, and retirement.

        (c)     An employee shall not lose seniority with the Road Division if the employee transfers from
               one division to another within the Road Division.

Section 2. Training and Filling of Vacancies

          (a) Temporary assignments and training to Division V will be selected from Division IV
              employees first, hours shall be divided as equally as possible between IV members,
                except that Division IV members can elect to not operate Division V equipment and remain
                in Division IV. The County will do yearly evaluations on Division IV employees to assess
                their equipment safety practices, equipment proficiency, ability to successfully complete
                work tasks, and teamwork.
        (b) Division II and Ill members may fill Division |V and V positions on a temporary basis as
            directed by the County. The County will do yearly evaluations on Division II and III
17
           employees, when assigned to Division IV or V work assignments, to assess their
           equipment safety practices, equipment proficiency, ability to successfully complete work
           tasks, and teamwork.

     (c) During the first year of training on Division    V equipment or when filling a vacancy in Division
           V, each Division IV employee may be sent to 1UOE Local 701         Engineer Training Center for
           heavy equipment training for one (1) week. County management will write to the Director of
           Training notifying him/her which piece of equipment each employee needs supplemental
           training on.
     Filling of Vacancies
     (a) Any job in Division Ill, {'V or V determined by the County Director of Public Works to be of a
         permanent nature shall be posted on the bulletin board for a period of forty-eight (48) hours
         and shall be open for consideration by employees within the bargaining unit who submit a
           written application for the position. Employees will be considered by the County on the
           basis of their relative qualification to do the work, evaluations, training assignments if filling
           a Division V position, seniority (utilizing an employee's work history both within and outside
           the County Road Division employment).

     (b) In the event the County Director of Public Works determines that no applicant within the
           bargaining unit is fully qualified to fill a vacancy in a Division IV or V, then the County
           Director of Public Works shall contact the Union and request the Union to refer fully
           qualified applicants for the specific position in question. The Union shall have forty-eight
           (48) hours to provide such applicants. Consideration shall be given such applicant or
           applicants.
     (c) In the event the County Director of Public Works determines that no applicant within the
         bargaining unit, or those referred by the Union for a Division IV or V opening, is qualified,
         the County Director of Public Works may take applications from other sources, and at their
         option, hire any such applicants provided they have superior skill and qualifications, in
           addition to the required CDL endorsements, than any other applicants from within the
           bargaining unit or Union.
     (d) In the event two applicants are equally qualified, preference shall be given to the resident of
         Klamath County.
     (e)      Vacancies in Division V equipment operators will be selected from Division IV based on
           their qualifications to do the work, evaluations, and completed training assignments as
           determined by the County. Where qualification and ability between two existing employees
           is relatively equal, as determined by the County, seniority shall be applied. The provisions
           of this paragraph apply equally to filling vacancies in Division IV from Division Ill, and filling
           vacancies in Division Ill from Division II.

     (f) Probation: A successful applicant from within the Road Division filling a position in Division
           ill, Division IV, and Division V under this section shall be placed on a probationary period
           not to exceed twelve (12) months. If the employee fails in this probationary period, they
           shall be returned to their old position and salary with no loss of seniority.

18
      (g) The parties recognize and agree that the County will apply the Oregon Veteran's
               Preference to the filling of vacancies as required by state law.
Section 3. Layoff and Recall
      (a) Temporary layoffs, emergency shutdowns or interruptions in normal work schedule,
          because of weather conditions, breakdowns, shortages, lack of work or other conditions
          which are not reasonably expected to exceed five (5) regular workdays, will be made in
          accordance with the operating needs of the Division without primary regard to seniority.
      (b) Once a layoff exceeds five (5) days, reduction in the number of employees shall be made in
          terms of Road Division seniority with employees of greatest seniority being retained as
          needed, provided they have the required skill and ability to efficiently perform the work.
       (c) When employees are recalled, it shall be by Division seniority with the last laid off being the
               first recalled, giving consideration to ability and qualification to satisfactorily perform the
               work required and the operating needs of the County.
       (d) Any employee reclassified into a lower or higher paying job by reason of recall or layoff
           shall assume both the new classification and the pay rate of the classification.

                          Article 16: Health Laws and Safety Measures

Section   1.

It is mutually agreed that the efforts of both the County and the Union shall be directed to maintain all
equipment and tools in a safe and efficient working order, and that the Federal and State regulations
and safety codes shall be strictly observed by both parties.
Section   2.

The employees shall use all protective equipment required, shall perform their work in a safe manner
and shall comply with all the safety regulations stipulated by the County. Failure to comply with safety
regulations shall be cause for discharge.
Section 3.

Personnel requiring safety clothing or safety gear are entitled to such gear being furnished by the
County. Items to be included are gloves, safety goggles, rubber boots, eye glass protectors, hard hats
and liner, reflective clothing, and any other clothing or gear necessary for safety of the performance of
duty. (Such items to be approved by the department head). The cost of maintaining the safety
clothing or gear shall be paid by the County. Such items, issued by the County, that are lost or
damaged, excepting normal wear, shall be replaced at the employee's expense. Articles furnished by
the County shall not be utilized for personal use.
Section 4.

A safety meeting will be held every month at such time as the County shall designate, and at which
the employees and representatives of the County shall be present to discuss problems of employee
safety. Such meetings shall be held on the County's time. Notice of the time and place of such

19
meeting shall be posted on the bulletin boards described in Article 19, Section 2, at least one (1)
week in advance.

Section   5. Weather    Protection

The County will, where feasible, provide protection from cold weather on County equipment. Such
protection shall be suitable for the type of equipment involved.

                          Article 17: Health Welfare and Retirement

Section 1. Workers’ compensation and Application of Sick Leave

All County employees will be insured under the provisions of the Oregon State Workers’
Compensation Act for injuries received while at work for the County. The County shall supplement the
amount received by the employee from the State Workers' Compensation Act, if any, for
compensable injuries received while at work for the County. Such supplements shall be in an amount
equal to the difference between money received from the SAIF (third party claims administrator), or
other qualified carrier, and the employee's regular eight (8) or ten (10) hour day from accrued sick
leave. Compensation shall be prorated against the employee's accrued sick leave and shall be limited
to the total amount of leave. The County's obligations will cease when said employee has no accrued
sick leave on record.

Section 2. Health and Welfare

In addition to wage scale and other monetary provisions listed in this agreement, effective July 1,
2023, the Employer agrees to pay $1,208.00 per month toward employee Health & Welfare benefits
on behalf of each eligible employee. Effective July 1, 2024, the Employer agrees to pay $1,208.00 per
month toward employee Health & Welfare benefits on behalf of each eligible employee. If the cost of
the medical insurance premium increases, half of any increase will be paid by the Employer up to a
maximum of $20.00. Effective July 1, 2025, if the cost of the medical insurance premium increases,
half of any increase will be paid by the Employer up to a maximum of $20.00. There will be no
duplication of premiums paid under this Agreement in the event an employee and their spouse are
both eligible for coverage hereunder. In such event, monthly premiums shall be paid only on behalf of
one eligible employee, the other employee being designated as a dependent for such purposes. The
cost of benefits beyond the cap amount shall be the responsibility of the employee and shall be
deducted on a pre-tax payroll basis.

The full premium amount shall be paid into the existing AGC/IUOE Local 701 Trust Fund for the
purpose of providing Health & Welfare benefits to all eligible Employees covered by this Agreement.
Payment shall be postmarked by the 20th day of each month in accordance with the requirements of
the Trust Agreement. The applicable provisions of the existing Trust document are hereby adopted
for the period covered by this Agreement or any renewal or extension thereof
If the provision of the Affordable Care Act known as the Cadillac Tax negatively impacts either party,
the parties agree to reopen this Article to bargain the impact.

Section 3. Retirement

Subject to Article 20, Section 2, the County agrees to continue providing retirement benefits to
employees hired on or before December 31, 2020, under the terms and provisions of the Klamath
20
County Employees’ Pension Plan. Employees hired on or after January 1, 2021, will receive
retirement benefits in accordance with the County's defined contribution plan on the same terms and
conditions applicable to the County's non-represented employees.

Section 4. State Unemployment Compensation
The County agrees to insure employees in the bargaining unit under the State of Oregon
Unemployment Compensation Act.

                               Article 18: General Provisions

Section 1. Bulletin Boards

The County agrees to furnish and maintain suitable bulletin boards in convenient places in each work
area to be used by the Union. The Union shall limit its use to such boards to notices and bulletins
concerning routine Union matters. Bulletin boards shall not be used for controversial or inflammatory
subjects.
Section 2. Existing Conditions

Only such existing work rules as are covered by a specific provision of this Agreement shall be
affected by recognition of the Union and the execution of this Agreement.
Section 3. Future Rules

The parties jointly recognize that the elected officials of the County are directly responsible to the
citizens of the County and to the public for the performance of the functions and services performed
by the County Road Division. Legislative functions incident to such responsibilities cannot be
delegated. For this reason, it is jointly recognized that the County Commission acting by and through
the County Director of Public Works, must and does retain broad authority to fulfill and implement its
responsibilities and may do so by work rule, oral or written, existing or future. It is agreed, however,
that no work rule will be promulgated or implemented which is inconsistent with a specific provision of
this Agreement, provided that the requirements of Oregon law will always be paramount. All work
rules which have been or shall hereafter be reduced to writing shall be posted on the bulletin boards
for a period of ten (10) consecutive workdays and shall be furnished to the Union.
Section 4. Tool Replacement

The County agrees to replace with the same brand whenever possible "in kind" personal tools which
are required in the line of duty and which the employee can show are broken in the line of duty. To
qualify for replacement, broken tools must be delivered to the County.
Section 5. Laundering
The County agrees to pay the laundering fees for two (2) pairs of employee’s coveralls per week or,
at the County's option, supply clean coveralls twice per week on an exchange basis only during the
time the employee is actually working as one of the following: Pug Mill (and helper), Patching Crew,
Brush Chipper Crew, Temporary Tacking, Paint Striping Crew, Paver (Operator and Screed Person),
Lube Person, Mechanics, Weed Control, Bridge Crew, Crack-sealing Crew, Broom Operator, and
Chip Spreader operator and helper (Example: The Pug Mill operator is entitled to coveralls while

21
operating the Pug Mill only. He/she is not entitled to coveralls if he is assigned to drive truck for the
day).
Section 6. Overnight Stays

The County recognizes in certain situations an employee may not desire to stay overnight away from
their usual place of residence. The County shall fairly distribute the overnight stays according to
established procedures. Any employee so assigned may request not to be assigned on an overnight
stay. Upon good cause shown by the employee, or upon presentation of a qualified and willing
replacement, the County will attempt to fill the vacant position considering skill, ability, seniority and
the operating needs of the Division. Should the County be unable to fill the position, the County may
then compel the first employee selected to accept the assignment. As applicable to this Section, a
daily or partial day meal per diem, at rates determined by the Board of County Commissioners and as
applicable to County employees in general, may be paid to employees provided that restaurant
employee signed receipts are submitted in accordance with rules for such provision as determined by
the Director of Public Works. When practicable as time allows and in accordance with County
accounts payable and travel policies, employees may request a travel advance on forms provided by
the County Finance Department. Settlement of all advances will be in accordance with the County
Travel Policy.
Section 7. License Requirements

Commercial Driver’s License Requirement
Division V Employees - Class A with
     1. Tank Endorsement
     2.   Double/Triples Endorsement

     3.   Air Brake Restriction
Division IV Employees - Class A with
     1. Tank Endorsement
     2.   Double/Triples Endorsement
     3. Air Brake Restriction
Division Ill Employees - Class A with

     1. Tank Endorsement
     2.   Double/Triples Endorsement

     3. Air Brake Restriction
Division Il Employees - Class A with
     1. Tank Endorsement
     2.   Air Brake Restriction

22
When notified, an employee without a CDL ficense or who lacks an endorsement for their division
classification will be given six (6) months to gain such license or endorsement. If the license issue is
not resolved in the time frame provided, the employee will be moved down to a division for which they
possess the appropriate license. Once the license issue is corrected the employee will go back to the
higher division classification.
No employee shall be moved to a higher division for the sole reason they obtain a higher rated
license than is required in their present division. Employees may be promoted to a higher division
requiring a higher-class license and additional endorsements. Employees must obtain these licenses
and endorsements during the probationary period.
CDL License Fees

County will pay any additional cost associated with obtaining the necessary CDL license,
endorsements, and physical when renewal is due.
Effective July 1, 2017 the rates schedules are:
 Pay for CDL Renewal       | $61.50
 Drive Test                  $70.00
 Airbrake Certification      $10.00
 DOT Physical                $120.00

The above costs are current costs and are provided for informational purposes only. The County will
pay for the DOT physical; however, the medical provider will be designated by the County.

                           Article 19: Savings Clause and Funding

Section 1. Savings Clause

Should any article, section or portion thereof, of this Agreement be held unlawful and unenforceable
by any court of competent jurisdiction, or any administrative agency having jurisdiction over the
subject matter, such decision shall apply only to the specific article, section, or portion thereof, directly
specified in the decision; upon the issuance of any such decision, the parties agree immediately to
negotiate a substitute, if possible, for the invalidated article, section, or portion thereof. All other
portions of this Agreement, and the Agreement as a whole, shall continue without interruption for the
term thereof.
Section 2. Funding
The parties recognize that revenue needed to fund the wages and benefits provided by the
Agreement must be approved annually by established budget procedures. All such wages and
benefits are therefore contingent upon sources of revenue and annual budget approval. The County
has no intention of cutting the wages and benefits specified in this Agreement because of budgetary
limitations, but cannot and does not guarantee any level of employment in the bargaining unit covered
by this Agreement. The County agrees to include in its annual budget request amounts sufficient to
fund the wages and benefits provided by this Agreement, but makes no guarantee as to the passage
of such budget requests pursuant to established budget procedures. This Section 2 and the County
action thereunder shall not be subject to Article 7.
23
                            Article 20: Alcohol and Drug Abuse

It is agreed that the County shall have the right to test for drugs and alcohol in a manner that is
consistent with the County's Human    Resources Policy on Alcohol and Drug Use and as required by
federal law.

Employees who violate the policy shall be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including
termination.

                              Article 21: Term        and Termination

Section   1. Term

Unless otherwise specified, this Agreement shall be effective on, July 1, 2023 or the date of
ratification, whichever occurs later, and shall remain in full force until midnight of June 30, 2026. It
shall automatically be renewed from year to year thereafter unless either party shall notify the other
not later than January 31 of the year of the expiration date that it wishes to modify this Agreement for
any reason.
Section   2. Closure

The County shall have no obligation to bargain with the Union with respect to any subject covered by
the term of this Agreement and closed to further bargaining for the term hereof and any subject which
was or might have been raised in the course of collective bargaining but is closed for the term hereof,
except as otherwise provided herein.

                                     Article 22: Training Fund
It is agreed that the County shall contribute ten cents ($0.10) per compensable hour for each
employee to the International Union of Operating Engineers’ Training Fund for the purposes of
training at the International Union of Operating Engineers’ Training Center.
Management will decide if someone is able to attend a training if requested. In order to minimize work
disruption, Management may deny a request if there are not enough employees to occupy a work
crew. Each employee will be able to attend a maximum of one (1) training per year, but not all
employees will be able to attend a training each year.

24
                                          EXHIBIT “A”

                                       Effective July 1, 2023
                                    EH02/1 $22.00/hr Build-out

      Division   | STEP 1 | STEP 2 | STEP 3 | STEP 4 | STEP 5 | STEP6 | STEP 7
        Div 2      $22.00   | $22.88   | $23.80    | $24.75      | $25.74   | $26.77   | $27.84
        Div 3      $23.10   | $24.02 | $24.98 | $25.98           | $27.02   | $28.10   | $29.23
        Div 4      $24.26 | $25.23     | $26.23    | $27.28      | $28.37   | $29.51   | $30.69
        Div 5      $25.47   | $26.49 | $27.55 | $28.65 | $29.79             | $30.99   | $32.22

                                       Effective July 1, 2024
                                              4% COLA

      Division | STEP 1 | STEP 2 | STEP 3 | STEP 4 | STEP 5 | STEP 6 | STEP 7
        Div 2      $22.88 | $23.80     | $24.75 | $25.74         | $26.77   | $27.84 | $28.95
        Div 3      $24.02   | $24.98   | $25.98    | $27.02      | $28.10   | $29.23 | $30.40
        Div 4      $25.23 | $26.23     | $27.28    | $28.37      | $29.51   | $30.69 | $31.92|
        Div 5      $26.49   | $27.55   | $2865     | $29.79      | $30.99   | $32.22   | $33.51

                                        Effective July 1, 2025
                                              4% COLA

      Division | STEP 1 | STEP 2 | STEP 3 | STEP 4 | STEP 5 | STEP6 | STEP 7
        Div 2      $23.80   | $24.75   | $25.74    | $26.77      | $27.84 | $28.95     | $30.11
        Div 3      $24.98   | $25.98 | $27.02      | $28.10      | $29.23   | $30.40 | $31.61
        Div 4      $26.23   | $27.28   | $28.37 | $29.51         | $30.69   | $31.92   | $33.19
        Div 5      $27.55   | $28.65   | $29.79 | $30.99 | $32.22           | $33.51   | $34.85

e   Advancements in steps shall occur annually and shall be effective for the first full pay period
    following the anniversary of the employee’s employment in the division.
e   Current employees who transfer between divisions shall remain at the step they were at in
    their previous division, but their new seniority date shall be the date of effective transfer into
    the new division. This seniority date shall be applicable only for the purposes of step
    advancement and is not intended to supersede any other seniority provisions bargained in this
    or subsequent Agreements.
                                               EXHIBIT “B”
                                   Division   Classification Schedule

                                                Division 2
                                       Road   Maintenance Worker

                       Division 3                                      Division 4
                    Weed Control |                                   Truck Driver 2
                     Sign Person |                            Aerial Bucket Truck Driver
                    Bridge Person |                                Auger Truck Driver
                     Truck Driver |                              Flusher Truck Driver
              Chip Spreader Lever Person                        Sweeper Truck Driver
                      Sander Driver                                Wing Plow Driver
                   Spray Truck Driver                               Wrecker Driver
                      Parts Person |                          Light Equipment Operator
                  Field Service Person                                  Brooms
                       Lube Person                                 Brush Chipper
               Oshkosh Plow Wing Person                        Crack-sealing Machine
                                                                    Distributor Truck
                                                                       Forklift
                                                        Legend Truck (2 Division 4 Operators)
                                                                         Mower
                                                              Paint Nurse Truck w/Crane
                                                               Roller, Patching 2-3 Ton
                                                                    Screed Operator
                                                                     Parts Person Il
                                                                    Bridge Person II
                                                                     Weed Control II
                                                              Asphalt Distributor Driver
                      Division 5
                       Mechanic
               Heavy Equipment Operator
                         Backhoe
                      Chip Spreader
                         Gradall
                         Grader
            Loaders, Front End 2 % Yd-Over
                 Oshkosh Plow Operator
                      Paver, Asphalt
           Roller, Asphalt and Base 4 — 12 ton
                    Roller, Pneumatic
                  Tractors, Track Type
                      Sign Person Il
             Paint Truck Driver and Striper
           Equipment Procurement Specialist
See Exhibit “A” for Salary Schedule
Movement from Sign Person | to Sign Person I! will occur following the successful completion of two
years of service from date as Sign Person I.
26
                                                          EXHIBIT “C*
                                     KLAMATH         COUNTY COUNSELING STATEMENT

       A                                          KLAMATH COUNTY

                 $                                        Counseling Statement

     Type of Action:     Record of Verbal Waming
                       o Whiten Reprimand
                         Written Reprimand w/Discipline Action
                       c Suspension and Discharge

        DATE:                                                    UNION REP (if applicable}:

           TO:
                                   Name                                                   Position

        FROM
                                   Name                                                   Position

      | have made the following observations of the above employee's conduct:

     have informed this employee of the following standards that will be expected in the future:

      These standards are important because of the following impact on the work environment:

      [have advised this employee that if the above standards are not met, the following consequences will occur.

27
      Disciplinary action taken:

      Comments:

                           These matters will be reviewed within                      days, Or on

              Supervisor Printed Name                                      Supervisor Signature                                 Date

                                   “*Please note, a witness only needs to sign if the employee refuses fo sign.

              Witness Printed Name                                         Winess Signature                                     Date

                                                            EMPLOYEE STATEMENT

     | have read and received a copy of the above statements.1        do       OR        donot      wish to submit writen comments of my
     own about  this matter.

      Employee Comments:

              Employee Printed Name                                        Empkyee Signature                                    Date

28
                                      Signature Page

For the Union:                                         For the County:

       Ze.
James Anderson, Business Manager                                 orris, Public Works Director

                                                Amanda Van Riper, Human      on     ll   Director

                                                           Out of Office Today
                                                       Kelley Minty, Commissioner

                                                       AoC
                                                       Derrick DeGroot, Commissioner

                                                          ve Henslee, Commissioner

Ratification date:   | | | 7   2093

29