KLAMATH COUNTY

HUMAN RESOURCES POLICY
& PROCEDURE MANUAL

REVISED , SEPTEMBER  1,  2011
( WITH AMENDMENTS  THROUGH N OVEMBER 20,  2018)

PREFACE & INTRODUCTION

The Klamath County Board of Commissioners (BOCC) values the public service provided by the
employees of Klamath County.  It is the intent of the BOCC to treat employees in a fair and consistent
manner in all aspects of the employment relationship.  In return, the BOCC expects County employees to
provide efficient and high-quality service to the citizens of Klamath County at every opportunity.

Effective and accurate management of Human Resource-related issues is one of the most challenging
aspects of supervision.  This manual has been prepared jointly by the Klamath County Board of
Commissioners, Human Resources Department and the County Counsel.  The County’s Director of
Human Resources is charged with the ultimate responsibility and authority for the administration and
maintenance of these policies and procedures.

Every attempt has been made to provide clear and concise information related to the County’s
employment policies and practices; however, this manual is not intended to be all-inclusive of every
situation and presents standard practices and policies typical of our work environments. Klamath County
operates in an at-will employment environment.  This means that both the employee and the employer
may decide to end an employment relationship at any time, for any reason other than a reason that is
made impermissible by civil rights protections.  Our at-will provisions extend to all employees unless
otherwise exempted by a collective bargaining agreement.  The Grievance / Problem Solving Procedure
and Discipline guidelines are subordinate to the County’s Employment At-Will Policy.  Any conflicts
between the two will be resolved in favor of the Employment At-Will policy.

This manual should not be considered an employment contract nor a guarantee of continued employment
with Klamath County or its affiliates.  Instead, this manual is a guideline for use by Klamath County’s
supervisory staff on employment-related matters.

The Klamath County Board of Commissioners (BOCC) reserves the right to deviate from this policy and
use discretion in making any employment decision. Klamath County is an equal opportunity employer and
does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, color, sex, age, national origin, disability, mental or
physical disability, genetic information or testing, sexual orientation and gender identity or expression,
veteran status, or any other classification protected by law.  We endeavor to maintain a harassment-free,
drug & alcohol-free, and violence-free workplace and expect every supervisor to accept their responsibility
toward this goal.

This policy manual shall serve as a guide unless it conflicts with negotiated labor contracts or specific laws
or statues, which shall take precedence to the extent applicable.  Representations made by supervisory
employees that are contrary to any of the following polices shall not be binding upon the County.  Klamath
County reserves the right to amend, modify and/or revoke any of its policies, procedures, practices and
standards summarized in this manual at any time with or without advance notice.  The most recent
version of this manual becomes effective September 1, 2011 (with amendments adopted by
Resolution No. 2013-019 effective December 1, 2012, Resolution No. 2013-030 effective February 1,
2013, Resolution No. 2013-033 effective April 9, 2013, Resolution No. 2014-005 adopted August 9,
2013, Resolution No. 2014-014 adopted January 21, 2014, Resolution No. 2014-032 adopted
February 18, 2014; Resolution No. 2015-002 effective September 1, 2014; Resolution No. 2015-009
effective December 16, 2014; Resolution No. 2016-005 effective October 1, 2015; Resolution No.
2016-011 effective January 1, 2016; Resolution No. 2017-008 effective December 13, 2016;
Resolution No. 2018-002 effective August 1, 2017; and Resolution No.2018-008) and supersedes all
previous statements, memos, policies and practices that are in conflict with the following
provisions.  Employees are not entitled to any benefit, policy or procedure which may have existed
in a prior version of the County’s Human Resources Policy and Procedure Manual.

Questions and issues related to the interpretation of this information should be directed to the Human
Resources Department.
i

KLAMATH COUNTY
Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual
Complete Revision, September 2011
With Amendments through November 20, 2018

Table of Contents

Preface & Introduction

000. Employment, page 000-1
 010. Definitions of Employment Status (Amended 02/2014), 000-1
 020. Recruiting and Selection (Amended 12/2012, 02/2014, 12/2016), 000-3
 021. Equal Employment Opportunity (Amended 12/2012, 02/2014), 000-7
 022. Employment of Relatives, 000-8
 023. Employment of Minors (Amended 02/2014), 000-9
 024. Employee Orientation & In-Processing, 000-9
 025. Probationary/Introductory Employment Period, 000-10
026. Employee Records (Amended 12/2016), 000-11
027. Job Selectee Relocation Program, 000-12
028. Separation of Employment, 000-13
029. Lay Off and Recall (Amended 12/2012), 000-14

100. Wage and Salary Administration, page 100-1
 110. FLSA Exempt / Non-exempt Status, 100-1
 111. Salary Program Administration, 100-2
 112. Classification and Reclassification of Positions, 100-4

200. Hours of Work and Payroll Practices, page 200-1
 210. Hours of Work and Paydays (Amended 12/2016), 200-1
 211. Overtime/Compensatory Time, 200-2
 212. Flextime, 200-3

300. Employee Benefits and Services, page 300-1
 310. Vacation, 300-1
 311. Holiday Pay (Amended 12/201409/2018), 300-2
 312. Sick Leave (Amended 01/2016, 12/2016), 300-4
 313. Other Paid Time Off (Amended 02/2014), 300-5
 314. Leaves of Absence (Amended 12/2012, 02/2014), 300-6
 315. Family and Medical Leave (Amended 12/2012, 02/2014, 12/2016), 300-8
 316. Employee Assistance Program (EAP), 300-11
 317. Education Completion Program, 300-12
 318. Benefit & Insurance Programs (Amended 12/2012, 04/2013, 09/2014, 12/2016), 300-14
 319. Pension (Retirement) Plan, 300-16
320. Deferred Compensation, 300-16
321. Donation of Vacation Time, 300-17
322. Longevity Pay, 300-17
323. Professional Licensure Board Complaints (Adopted 09/2017), 300-18

ii

400. Standards of Conduct and Corrective Action, page 400-1
 409. Code of Conduct and Whistleblower Protection (Amended 12/2016), 400-1
 410. Standards of Conduct (Amended 12/2012, 02/2014), 400-6
 411. Conflict of Interest (Amended 12/2016), 400-7
 412. Harassment (Amended 12/2016), 400-7
 413. Political Activities, 400-10
 414. Solicitation and Distribution, 400-10
 415. Alcohol and Drug Use (Amended 12/2016), 400-11
 416. Dress and Personal Appearance, 400-15
 417. Use of Tobacco in the Workplace (Amended 12/2016), 400-15
 418. Media Releases and Statements, 400-16
 419. Discipline Guidelines (Amended 12/2012), 400-16

500. Employee Communications, page 500-1
 510. Bulletin Boards, 500-1
511. Computer Systems and Electronic Technology, Devices, and Services (Amended
11/2018) 500-1
511.A Cellular Devices, 500-4
511.B Passwords, 500-6
511.C Social Media, 500-6
511.D Network Storage, 500-7
512. Suggestions for Improvement & Innovative Ideas, 500-11
 513. Grievance/Problem Solving Procedure, 500-11
514. Animal Policy, 500-12

600. Training and Development, page 600-1
 610. Employee Performance Evaluation, 600-1
 611. Promotions, 600-2
612. Job Posting, 600-2

700.   Safety and Security, Page 700-1
 710. Safety Policy, 700-1
711. Accidents & Injury Reporting (Amended 02/2014), 700-2
712. Building Security & Employee Safety, 700-3
713. Automated External Defibrillators (AED)/Public Access Defibrillation (PAD), 700-4
714. Workplace Violence (Adopted 12/2012), 700-7

800. Travel & Vehicle Use, page 800-1
 810. Travel Policy (Amended 08/2013, 01/2014, 10/2015, 08/2017), 800-1
 811. Vehicle Use Policy (Amended 02/2014, 10/2015), 800-7
 811.A Vehicle Use Policy Addendum (Amended 02/2013; 10/2015), 800-10

900. HIPAA, page 900-1
 910. HIPAA Policy, 900-1
 911. Enforcement Sanctions & Penalties for Violations of Individual Privacy, 900-5
  HIPAA Glossary, 900-7

Acknowledgment Receipt, page I

Forms Index, page II

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments - 11/202018) – Page 000-1

000. EMPLOYMENT

010. DEFINITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT STATUS (Amended Effective 02-25-2014)
Klamath County maintains standard definitions of employment status and classifies employees for
the purposes of human resource, benefits administration and related payroll transactions.  The
following definitions are currently in use:

♦ At-Will Employment:  This group includes all non-union employees.  Under the at-will
relationship, both the employer and employee may choose to terminate an employment
relationship at any time, for any reason.  Non-union employees directly reporting to an Elected
Official serve at the Pleasure of the Elected Official and as such are not included under the
Discipline and Discharge or Grievance/Problem Solving Procedure sections of this manual.

♦ FLSA Exempt:  An employee who is exempt from the overtime provisions of the Fair Labor
Standards Act (FLSA) and is normally paid an established semi-monthly salary.  The
determination of whether a position is designated as exempt is a function of specific
standards set by the FLSA and state law.  Exemption has no relation to union membership.

♦ FLSA Non-Exempt:  An employee who is eligible to receive overtime or compensatory time for
work beyond a 40-hour workweek.  Non-exempt employees are normally paid an hourly rate
of pay. The determination of whether a position is designated as non-exempt is a function of
specific standards set by the FLSA and state law.  Being non-exempt is not related to union
membership status.

♦ Non-union:  Employees who are not included under a collective bargaining agreement.

♦ Union:  Employees who are included under a collective bargaining agreement.

♦ Full-time:  Employees scheduled to work between 37.5 and 40 hours per week, or more than
120 hours in a three (3) consecutive month period.

♦ Half-time:  Employees scheduled to work at least 30 and less than 37.5 hours per week.  Half-
time employees are eligible for pro-rated benefits based on their FTE; with the exception of
the medical contribution amount.  Employees that are a .75 FTE or greater shall receive the
medical contribution amount equivalent to a full-time employee.  For example, a 0.60 FTE
employee would receive 60% benefits.  Employees hired prior to January 1, 2014 are
grandfathered in to receive pro-rated benefits if they are scheduled to work at least 20 and
less than 30 hours per week.

♦ Part-time:  Employees scheduled to work 29 or fewer hours per week, or less than 130 hours
per month.  Part-time employees are not entitled to most benefits.  (Specific information on
benefits eligibility can be obtained from the Human Resources Department.)

♦ Emergency Hire:  Should a department face an emergency whereby public services may
become seriously impaired, a vacant position may be filled as a 30-day Emergency Hire.  This
process does not require a normal, open and competitive recruitment process, but must be
approved by the Department Head and Board of County Commissioners.  Upon approval, any
qualified person may be appointed to such a position in order to prevent stoppage or loss of
public services or serious inconvenience to the public.  The appointment may be for a
maximum of 30 days.  Emergency hire employees may not be offered regular employment in
the same or any other classification without taking the necessary steps to become eligible and
by competing in a normal and open recruitment process.  Upon approval of the Board of
County Commissioners and the Human Resources Department, an emergency hire may be
obtained through a temporary employment agency using the guidelines listed above.

♦ Volunteer Hire:  Individuals who perform services on behalf of Klamath County on a volunteer
non-compensated basis.  Volunteers may work a full-time or part-time work schedule.
Regardless of the number of hours worked, volunteers are not entitled to benefits and are
expected to comply with all County policies and procedures.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual –– Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments - 11/20/2018) – Page 000-2
♦ Probationary or Introductory Employment Period Employee:  All newly hired, re-hired,
transferred, promoted or demoted employees with less than twelve (12) months of service in
a specific position.  Note:  The Probationary or Introductory Employment Period may be
extended beyond the stated twelve (12) month period by collective bargaining agreement or
other authorization by the Director of Human Resources.  Union employees should review
their contract for clarification on the applicable probationary time period.

♦ Regular Status Employee:  An employee who has successfully completed his/her
Probationary Employment Period.

♦ Seniority:  Refers to the length of continuous service with Klamath County within a specific job
classification and within a specific department.
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual –– Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments - 11/20/2018) – Page 000-3
020. RECRUITMENT & SELECTION (Amended Effective 12/13/2016)

 PURPOSE
 To establish the various roles and responsibilities in the recruitment and selection of employees;
to maximize efforts and resources in selecting the best employees available.

 POLICY
 It is Klamath County’s policy to hire employees who are the best qualified to meet the
requirements of the job and the organization’s overall goals.  Klamath County has established
standard practices related to recruitment and selection of employees for several reasons.  These
include:  To establish job-related and consistent hiring practices throughout the County; To
maintain a highly qualified, successful and productive work force; To contribute to the
organization’s goals of promoting diversity among its employees; And to continually improve the
performance of its employees and the quality of public service.  Klamath County’s hiring practices
are intended to comply with all applicable state and federal laws.  The rights of employment
applicants and current employees to be free from discrimination shall be protected and honored.

 All applicants seeking employment in an open position must submit a current Klamath County
Employment Application form to the Human Resources Department.  In addition, other
information may be required as detailed in the job announcement.  For select positions, a resume
may be accepted during the initial screening process in place of the Employment Application.  The
distribution and collection of Employment Applications is coordinated by the Human Resources
Department.  Employment applications are normally accepted only for positions which are
currently posted.  All applications must be complete and must include an original signature of the
applicant (this may be obtained post-hire in cases where an application has been submitted
electronically or via facsimile).  Applications are considered active for a period of 30 days
maximum.

 GUIDELINES:  The steps detailed below should be followed when hiring any full-time, half-time,
part-time, or temporary employee:

♦ General Philosophy:  Klamath County hires candidates who best demonstrate the
technical and professional skills to meet both the requirements of the position and the
goals of the organization.  As a result, the most qualified applicant may not always be the
candidate with the most years of experience or highest degree of education.  The most
qualified candidate may be the applicant who can demonstrate not only technical or
professional competence, but also other important skills or qualities, as determined by the
County.  These may include relevant factors such as communication and interpersonal
skills, orientation toward teamwork, creativity and initiative, demonstrated ability to be
responsible and accountable, and other characteristics associated with high performance.

♦ Verify the Job Description:  To fill a position, first obtain a copy of the current job
description from Human Resources.  Be sure to review and update all information,
including job responsibilities and minimum requirements.  The updated job description
should be signed and returned to Human Resources.

♦ Complete an Employment Requisition Form (KCHR Form #1):  For budgeted
positions this form should be completed and returned to Human Resources at least three
(3) days prior to the requested posting date.  These postings require the approval of the
Board of County Commissioners, during a work session.  All requisitions for new positions
and requisitions involving increases in budget line items must be accompanied by
justification.  Human Resources will schedule the request for approval by the Board of
County Commissioners at a work session.

In response, the Human Resources Department will assist in the following manner:

Upon receipt of the approved Requisition Form, Human Resources will identify a beginning and
ending date for the recruitment.  (Note:  Select positions may be posted as “open until filled”.)

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual –– Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments - 11/20/2018) – Page 000-4
Guidelines for job postings are listed below:

Posting & Position
Type
Posting Period
Inter-Department Job
Posting for Regular
and Temporary
positions
Recommended
minimum of 5
calendar days
Internal Job Posting
within Klamath
County for Regular
and Temporary
positions
Minimum of 5
calendar days
External Job Posting
for Regular and
Temporary positions
Minimum of 10
calendar days
Emergency Hire No posting required

Human Resources will prepare and distribute a job announcement, add the position to the
County's employment website and circulate the general employment listing throughout the County.

Notify appropriate recruiting source(s), including, but not limited to, newspapers, State
Employment Division, social service agencies, professional associations and publications, and
other applicable city, county and state governments.

♦ Selection Process, Criteria and Tools:  The Human Resources staff and the hiring supervisor
should work together to outline the selection process, determine the hiring criteria and design
selection materials and tools.  All selection criteria, materials and tools must be job-related,
objective and legally compliant.

Selection Criteria:  The Human Resources Department will review all Employment Applications.
For each applicant, an initial determination will be made, based on the established selection
criteria whether the candidate is minimally qualified and suitable for the position.  Examples of
selection criteria include: education, training or professional certification that is job-related; Work
experience that represents similar levels of responsibility or that prepares an applicant to assume
the level of responsibility required of the vacant position; Job-related knowledge, skills and
abilities, such as writing or communication skills, technical skills, or the ability to establish effective
working relationships.

Selection Process, Materials, and Tools: Applicants are normally tested and evaluated at each
step in the selection process, from completing an Employment Application through final reference
verification and assessment.  The selection process is designed to obtain information to aid the
hiring supervisor in making a sound employment decision.  All selection materials and tools must
be approved by Human Resources before being implemented.

Veterans’ Preference: All things being equal, Klamath County may give preference to veterans,
when making hiring decisions; Klamath County does not discriminate against individuals based on
current or prior military service.  Currently, preference points shall be awarded to eligible veterans
at each stage of the hiring process if multiple steps are used.  Generally eligible veterans will
receive 5 preference points unless they qualify as an eligible disable veteran.  An eligible disabled
veteran shall receive 10 preference points.

♦ Required Steps in the Selection Process: The selection process must include the following:

Completed and signed application (cover letter and resume may be replaced for select positions
and is otherwise considered optional);

Interview by both the hiring supervisor and interview panel;

Reference verification and assessment by Human Resources.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual –– Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments - 11/20/2018) – Page 000-5
♦ Optional Steps in Selection Process:  The hiring supervisor and the Human Resources
Department may also use other optional selection materials or tools, when job-related and
appropriate for the position to be filled.  These include, but are not limited to:

Motor Vehicle Driving Records
Occupational Health Exams
Clerical exams such as typing, math, spelling & letter format
Supplemental Application Questionnaires

Medical examinations (As allowed by Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), medical examinations
may be required only after a written, conditional offer of employment is made.)

♦ Use of a Scoring Matrix: Supervisors, in consultation with Human Resources, should develop a
screening matrix to assist in the selection process.  By doing so, specific criteria may be
evaluated, weighted and scored by each interview panel member and then discussed by the entire
group.

♦ Job Posting:  The Human Resources Department prepares job announcements for all positions.
Along with the Department Head, Human Resources will determine whether the vacancy is posted
internally, externally or both.  An internal posting is extended to include only current Klamath
County employees who have already completed their probationary period.  Exceptions to this
guideline must be approved in advance by the Director of Human Resources and the BOCC.
Current County employees receive employment consideration on a strictly competitive basis
whenever a job is posted, subject to labor contract requirements.  External postings are normally
posted for a minimum of ten (10) days; Internal postings for five (5) days.

♦ Screening for Minimum Qualifications: The Human Resources Department will collect all
employment applications screening them for the minimum qualifications and desired skills.  Those
applications which meet the minimum standards established on the job description and job
announcement will be forwarded to the hiring supervisor for further consideration.

♦ Interviews: The hiring supervisor should review the applications received and select candidates
to be interviewed based on the selection criteria previously developed and approved by Human
Resources.  Generally, the supervisor should select at least three (3) applicants to be interviewed.
The hiring supervisor should then identify a minimum of two (2) other department employees or
supervisors to comprise an interview panel.  The panel will conduct the interviews using the
interview questions and scoring matrices previously developed.  If a financial or criminal
background check is required the Applicant Release Addendum form (KCHR #16) shall be signed
by all applicants being interviewed.  At the supervisor’s request, Human Resources is available to
coordinate all components of the selection process, including scheduling interviews, providing
guidance to supervisors, and supporting the interview panel.

♦ Reference Verification and Assessment:  The hiring supervisor or Human Resources will
conduct a minimum of two reference verifications on all final job candidates.  Each reference will
be asked to provide information related to the candidate’s knowledge, character, skills and
abilities.  An assessment of the information collected will be performed by Human Resources or
the hiring supervisor.  As a priority, Human Resources will contact former supervisors to obtain
reference information over personal or non-work-related references.  A Klamath County Human
Resources Employment Reference Verification form (KCHR #15) will be provided with the
application forms to assist departments with the verifications.  The Employment Reference
Verification form shall be returned to the Human Resources Department with the Human
Resources Interview/New Hire Information form (KCHR #4).

♦ Hiring Recommendation & Decision:  The hiring supervisor should prepare a final
recommendation for hire and forward it to Human Resources on the Human Resources
Interview/New Hire Information form (KCHR #4).  It should include justification for the hiring
decision based upon the results of the selection process.  The recommendation should also
identify the starting step in the compensation range.  All requests for starting pay above Step 1
must be justified by stating how the applicant exceeds the minimum qualifications.  Such requests
must be approved by the Department Head and should also address any budgetary impacts.
Requests for compensation exceptions must be reviewed for internal equity and must be
approved by the Board of County Commissioners in a public meeting.
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual –– Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments - 11/20/2018) – Page 000-6
♦ Notification of Selection Decision:  The hiring supervisor or the Human Resources Department
will prepare a written job offer to the successful applicant.  The written job offer will include: the job
classification for which the applicant is being hired, the starting salary and other compensation,
the starting date and location of employment, the County’s orientation process, and other terms or
conditions of employment.  The offer may be conditioned upon the completion of job-related
requirements, including, but not limited to a pre-employment drug screen, medical examination,
and criminal or financial background check.  Once an employment offer is accepted by the finalist,
Human Resources will generate the paperwork to confirm employment.  The hiring supervisor or
the Human Resources Department will also notify unsuccessful applicants of the hiring decision
via written correspondence or by telephone.  All newly hired or re-hired employees, excluding
emergency hires, must participate in a pre-employment drug screen if they are hired into a
position that requires pre-employment drug screening and attend the new hire orientation.

♦ Documentation of the Selection Process:  At the close of every selection process, the Human
Resources Department will maintain for a minimum of three (3) years, a file composed of:

• A copy of the Employment Application for the selected candidate (original to employee file);
• A copy of the job offer letter;
• The completed screening matrices for all interviewed candidates;
• All interview questions or other selection tools used;
• Applications of all candidates interviewed;
• A list of all candidates; the completed Human Resources Interview/New Hire Information form
(KCHR #4), which outlines the position filled, dates of the interviews, candidates interviewed
for the position, the person hired and if they were notified of the decision;
• Any other documents relevant to the selection process.

♦ Volunteers:  Departments that intend to utilize volunteer workers must coordinate with the
Human Resources & Risk Management Department to ensure proper in processing of the
volunteer based off of the proper volunteer tier.  Departments will need to forward to Human
Resources & Risk Management:
• A copy of the Klamath County Volunteer Application form (KCHR #6B).
• Whether or not the Volunteer shall be issued a County Identification Badge.
• If the Volunteer requires an assigned parking space.
• Each month report the number of hours the volunteer worked, so the hours may be reported
for Workers’ Compensation purposes.

♦ Student Internships/Externships:  Departments that intend to utilize an intern/extern must
coordinate with the Human Resources & Risk Management Department to ensure proper in
processing of the student.  Departments must demonstrate that the ratio of students to
supervisors is adequate.  Departments will need to forward to Human Resources & Risk
Management:
• A copy of the student’s resume or they may utilize a Klamath County Volunteer Application
form (KCHR #6B).
• A copy of the Master agreement between Klamath County and their school that covers the
responsibilities of all parties and insurance coverage requirements.
• The participation agreement between the student, the professor and the County advisor that
outlines the responsibilities and expectation of all the parties.
• If the department requires a criminal background check; then the student must obtain this
through the school or on their own through the Oregon State Police.
• Students are expected to follow the same Departmental and Klamath County Policies and
Procedures that County employees follow; therefore, they must attend an employee
orientation program.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual –– Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments - 11/20/2018) – Page 000-7
021. EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY (Amended Effective 02-25-2014)

 PURPOSE
 To maintain an employment environment free from illegal discrimination.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to all employees of Klamath County.

 POLICY
 Klamath County maintains a policy of non-discrimination with current employees and applicants
for employment.  We are an equal opportunity employer, and as such, we consider individuals for
employment according to their abilities and performance.  No aspect of employment within the
County will be influenced in any manner by race, color, religion, sex, age, national origin, veteran
status, military status, association with members of a protected class, marital status, injured
worker status, non-supervisory family relationships, disability, mental or physical disability, genetic
information or testing, sexual orientation and gender identity or expression, or other class of
protection which is addressed by state or federal law.  All employment requirements mandated by
State and Federal laws and regulations are observed.  Klamath County prohibits retaliation
against individuals who bring forth a discrimination complaint.

GUIDELINES

Americans with Disabilities Act
The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) is a comprehensive federal civil rights law that
specifically protects individuals with physical and mental disabilities.  Individuals still need to
be “qualified” for the job, and not pose a “direct threat”.

Individuals may be protected under the ADA if any of the following conditions exist
• They currently have a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits a major
life activity; or
• They have a record of such an impairment, physical or mental, that substantially limits
a major life activity; or
• They are perceived to have such impairment.

Episodic or in remission conditions may meet the definition of a disability if it would
substantially limit a major life activity when active.

Temporary, non-chronic impairments of short duration, with little or no residual effects usually
are not considered disabilities under ADA.  Examples of, but not limited to, impairments that
typically would not meet the ADA definition of a disability are:  common cold, seasonal or
common influenza, joint sprain, minor and non-chronic gastrointestinal disorders or broken
bones that are expected to heal completely.

The use of ordinary eyeglasses or contact lenses that are intended to fully correct visual
activity or eliminate refractive error, typically are not considered disability under ADA.

Individuals who currently engage in illegal use of drugs are excluded from ADA protection

The ADA also prohibits discrimination on the basis of an individual’s relationship to someone
(parent, sibling, child, spouse/significant other, etc.) with a disability.

Klamath County offers equal employment opportunities for qualified individuals who may have
a physical or mental disability, but are still able to perform the essential functions of the job.
Essential functions are defined as the fundamental non-marginal duties of the position being
held or sought by a disabled individual.  A job function is essential if the position exists for the
performance of the function, there are only a limited number of employees available to
perform it, or the function is so highly specialized that an expert must be specially hired to
perform it.

Reasonable accommodation may be available to employees and applicants, as long as the
accommodation doesn’t cause undue hardship for Klamath County.  Individuals protected by
the ADA should discuss their need for possible accommodation with their supervisor,
department head, or Human Resources representative.
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual –– Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments - 11/20/2018) – Page 000-8
Religious Accommodation
Klamath County may provide reasonable accommodation for religious observances or
practices of employees, unless providing the accommodation would impose an undue
hardship on Klamath County; this may also include accommodating the wearing of religious
clothing.

Domestic Violence
Klamath County does not discriminate against employees who are victims of domestic
violence, sexual assault, or stalking.

Genetic Information Non-discrimination Act (GINA)
Klamath County does not discriminate against applicants or employees based upon either the
employee’s or the employee’s family genetic information; nor does Klamath County use
genetic information in employment decisions.  Once a condition manifests itself, the GINA no
longer applies.  More detailed information about GINA is available on the EEOC poster placed
on the employee bulletin board in all departments.

Genetic information and Wellness Programs:  Employees may be asked to sign voluntary
waivers, in which, the employee acknowledges that his/her genetic information will only be
provided to licensed health care professionals or board-certified counselors involved in the
wellness program.  There is no penalty for non-participation.

022. EMPLOYMENT OF RELATIVES

 PURPOSE
 To prevent problems of supervision, safety, security and morale by employing two or more related
individuals within Klamath County.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to all employees of Klamath County pursuant to ORS 659A.309.

 POLICY
Applications for employment from close family relatives will be considered on a strictly competitive
basis whenever job vacancies occur.  Some restrictions related to job placement and supervision
will apply where a specific business necessity has been identified by the County, with the goal of
preventing problems of supervision, safety, security and morale.  Close family relatives may only
be hired into the same department by the County with the advance written approval of the Director
of Human Resources.  Close family relatives may not be hired, promoted, demoted or transferred
into a position where they directly or indirectly supervise or are supervised by a family member.

DEFINITION
 “Close family relatives” are defined as current spouse, child, parent, grandparent, brother, sister,
brother-in-law, sister-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, father-in-law, mother-in-law, aunt, uncle,
niece, nephew, step-parent or step-child of the employee.  For the purpose of this policy “spouse”
means those employees having a current, legal marital relationship.

 GUIDELINES
If an employee becomes a close family relative after their initial hiring and a conflict of interest or
other problem develops, as determined by Klamath County, a period of 90 days will be provided to
resolve the matter.  If resolution is not possible, the County may require one or both of those
employees to transfer or resign.  This guideline also applies to situations where reorganization
creates such a conflict.

In the event that two Klamath County employees marry, both employees are expected to notify
their Department Head within ten (10) days of the marriage.  The Department Head should then,
in turn, notify the Director of Human Resources.  If such notification is not provided by the
employee, the County reserves the right to make the final decision regarding transfer or
termination of either of the employees should a conflict of interest or other work-related concern
exists.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual –– Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments - 11/20/2018) – Page 000-9
023. EMPLOYMENT OF MINORS (Amended Effective 02-25-2014)

PURPOSE
 To establish guidelines to occasionally hire employees under the age of 18 during school breaks,
at peak work periods, or on an internship or volunteer basis.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to all positions in Klamath County.

 POLICY
 As a general rule, employees of Klamath County must be at least 18 years of age. The County
may hire students or others who are ages 16 or 17, but this may be done only under special
conditions and must be approved in advance by the Director of Human Resources.

GUIDELINES
♦ Required Permit:  Klamath County must, on an annual basis, apply to the State of Oregon's
Bureau of Labor and Industries (BOLI) for a labor permit allowing the employment of minors in
specified positions.

♦ Number Of Hours Worked:  The Oregon State Wage and Hour Commission is responsible for
setting minimum standards for the wages, hours and working conditions of minors.  Generally,
minors age 16 and 17 may not work more than 40 hours in any one workweek.  In addition,
regular break periods must be provided.  For complete information contact Human Resources
regarding Oregon Revised Statute (ORS) 653.305, the Employment of Minors.

♦ Wages:  Regardless of age, minors must be paid the current minimum wage as is required by
applicable state or federal law.  Overtime is paid for hours worked in excess of 40 in a defined
workweek.

024. EMPLOYEE ORIENTATION AND IN-PROCESSING

PURPOSE
To establish a centralized and consistent manner for the completion of the required paperwork
associated with employment or re-employment with Klamath County; To provide all employees
with a review of available benefit options; To ensure the complete review and acknowledgement
of all policy and safety information prior to starting employment with Klamath County.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to all employees and departments of Klamath County.

 POLICY
 All newly hired or re-hired employees must participate in the New Employee Orientation program.
This four-hour session is normally held twice per month and is scheduled by the Human Resource
staff in advance.  The orientation session provides employees with an introduction to the various
Human Resource and Risk Management topics associated with employment.  An employee
cannot be placed on the payroll system until this orientation and in-processing has been
completed and Immigration Reform and Control Act (IRCA) regulations require specific paperwork
be completed prior to beginning work with any employer in the United States.

GUIDELINES
All employees eligible for employment in the United States are required to complete the
Employment Verification Eligibility Form (I-9 Form) as a result of IRCA.  This form must be
certified by a representative of the Human Resources Department. Individual departments are
responsible for ensuring that all employees receive specific job or department orientation.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual –– Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments - 11/20/2018) – Page 000-10
025. PROBATIONARY/INTRODUCTORY EMPLOYMENT PERIOD

PURPOSE
 To complete the recruitment and selection process by providing a probationary or introductory
employment period of on-the-job work experience by which the employee and the County may
evaluate whether or not employment should be continued on a regular status.  This determination
should be made on the basis of knowledge, skill, ability, interest and other work-related factors.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to all Klamath County employees, including those union employees where a
labor contract so specifies.  Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements should
consult their union contract to determine the actual length of their probationary employment
period.

 POLICY
 Unless otherwise stated in collective bargaining agreements, all new employees serve a
probationary or introductory employment period of twelve (12) months from date of hire,
promotion, demotion or transfer.  This is the final step in the recruitment and selection process
and is key in determining whether the employment relationship should continue. During the
probationary or introductory employment period, like all County ‘at will’ employees, Klamath
County may elect to terminate a person’s employment at any time for any reason and the
progressive disciplinary guidelines and grievance/problem solving process will not be in effect for
probationary or introductory employees.  In turn, employees share the right to terminate
employment at any time for any reason during this period or at any point thereafter.

 There will be a formal performance evaluation at the end of the probationary or introductory
employment period.  In addition, frequent informal and formal evaluation of employee
performance is permitted as determined in the best judgment of the supervisor.  If the County
determines in its sole discretion that a satisfactory performance level cannot be achieved through
a reasonable amount of training and coaching, probationary or introductory employment period
employees can be terminated.  Such decisions should involve the consultation of the Director of
Human Resources.  The probationary or introductory employment period may be extended
beyond the twelve (12) month period upon mutual agreement between the Department Head and
the Director of Human Resources.

GUIDELINES
Department supervisors are responsible for the training and evaluation of a new employee during
the probationary or introductory period.  Formal and/or informal performance evaluations may be
conducted at any time during the probationary or introductory period.  Performance evaluation
forms are available from the Human Resources Department.  In addition to job orientation and
training, informal coaching and feedback should be provided on a regular basis.

Upon satisfactory completion of the probationary or introductory period, employees are designated
as “regular” status employees and are subject to the standard performance evaluation and
progressive disciplinary processes.  If, during the probationary or introductory employment period,
unsatisfactory performance does not improve the Director of Human Resources should be
advised and the employee may be terminated from employment.

All employees, regardless of status or length of service, are required to meet and maintain the
County's established standards for job performance and behavior.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual –– Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments - 11/20/2018) – Page 000-11
026. EMPLOYEE RECORDS (Amended Effective 12-13-2016)

 PURPOSE
 To establish standards by which information contained in personnel records is managed with the
goals of accuracy, privacy and legal compliance.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to all departments and employees of Klamath County.

 POLICY
Official employee personnel records are maintained solely by the Human Resources Department
containing information on each County employee to meet state and federal legal requirements
and to assure efficient personnel administration.  Notification of changes in address, telephone
number, and family status which impacts benefits or tax designation should be reported to Human
Resources as soon as possible.  Prompt notification is key to avoid a negative impact on an
employee’s income tax withholding, group insurance enrollment, and beneficiary designation.

Access to employee files is restricted to authorized employees of the Human Resources
Department, applicable supervisory staff (on a “need to know” basis), and the current employee to
whom the file pertains.  Employee files are the property of the County and may not be removed
from the Human Resources Department without advance approval of the Director of Human
Resources.  Information requests received from other departments and/or inquiries from outside
organizations, including requests for employment verification, should be directed to Human
Resources.

 GUIDELINES
♦ Employee File Contents.  When an employee is hired with Klamath County, an employee
personnel file is established generally containing the following information:

• The Employment Requisition Form (KCHR #1) or other memorandum approved by the
Board of County Commissioners.

• An original Klamath County Employment Application and related hiring documents, such
as resumes and educational transcripts.

• Personal information and action notices related to pay or other employment status
changes.

• Performance management documents including disciplinary notices and performance
evaluations.

• Documents including recent education, records of outside achievements,, etc.

• Other documents related to employment such as appreciation letters, employment
references, training records, benefit enrollment records, etc.

Note:  Medical records, employee relations or investigation files and Employment Eligibility
Verification Forms (Form I-9) are kept in separate, locked files.  The contents of these files
may be examined only by appropriate officials with prior approval of the Director of Human
Resources.

♦ Examination of an Employee Personnel File.  Inspection of an employee file may be
accomplished at reasonable times during office hours under the following conditions:

Employees are entitled, by state law, to examine their files, upon request, at reasonable
times.  This review shall take place in the Human Resources Department with a Human
Resources representative present.  Employment references and notes of legal or disciplinary
investigations in progress, if any, may be removed before the employee views the file.
Employees should be prepared to show picture identification in order to view their personnel
file.  Current employees may also obtain a certified copy of documents maintained in their file;
however, the County will charge the actual cost of furnishing such records (per ORS 652.750).

Subpoenas and Requests for Discovery in the court system will be examined on a case-by-
case basis and should be handled by Human Resources.
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual –– Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments - 11/20/2018) – Page 000-12
♦ Information Requests and Employment References.  If an employee wishes the County to
verify information requested by outside sources for credit or other purposes, a release form
with the employee’s signature must accompany the request.  Employment references on
former employees are provided only by the Human Resources Department and only as
follows:

References with Written Approval:  Job chronology and performance information may be
released with written approval and release by the employee or former employee.  This
information will be released in writing and a copy retained in the employee file.

Telephone Inquiries:  Information will be verified by the Human Resources Department via
telephone (after reasonable caller identification), but is limited to the following:

• Hire and termination date(s)
• Position(s) held with Klamath County
• Confirmation of current compensation

Written Inquiries:  If the request for information is in writing and accompanied by the
employee’s signature, other information may be verified beyond the above.  Such
correspondence will be made in writing and a copy will be retained in the employee’s file.

♦ File Retention.  Original employee files are maintained by the Human Resources Department
for a period of six years after separation.  In some cases, file retention may be extended
beyond this period.

027. JOB SELECTEE RELOCATION PROGRAM

PURPOSE
To establish a consistent standard related to relocation assistance for personnel hired from
outside the local area.

SCOPE
This policy applies to all departments of Klamath County.

POLICY
Upon approval of the Board of County Commissioners, and under advisement by the Director of
Human Resources, Klamath County may elect to assist with relocation expenses for selected
employment finalists.  This type of assistance will normally be reserved for Department Head-level
positions within the County's organizational structure.  The employee will be reimbursed for actual
expenses after submitting their receipt(s) to their supervisor and signing a Relocation Repayment
Agreement (KCHR #13).  Normally this reimbursement amount shall not exceed the newly hired
employee's monthly salary, but may be evaluated on factors such as distance, immediacy of
placement, and other factors deemed important by Klamath County.

This one-time payment shall be made to the employed candidate with the understanding that
should the candidate voluntarily leave the County’s employment within twenty-four (24) months of
his/her date of hire, he/she shall repay the full amount of the relocation assistance provided back
to Klamath County.

  GUIDELINES
A check request will be prepared on behalf of the new employee by the department hiring the new
employee.

The department shall not release the check to the new employee until a signed Relocation
Repayment Agreement has been obtained. The Director of Human Resources will ensure that the
signed employment offer and Relocation Repayment Agreement (KCHR #13) are retained in the
employee’s personnel file.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual –– Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments - 11/20/2018) – Page 000-13
Upon termination and as part of the out-processing checklist, the Human Resources staff will
verify and determine if any repayment of relocation dollars need to be repaid to Klamath County.
If so; the applicant may make payment directly to Klamath County or have the balance deducted
from his/her final paycheck as authorized on the Relocation Repayment Agreement form.

028. SEPARATION OF EMPLOYMENT

 PURPOSE
 To ensure timely and accurate processing of employees who are being removed from the
County's payroll; to provide for a consistent termination process using positive employee relations
practices.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to all Klamath County employees except those otherwise covered by collective
bargaining agreements.

 DEFINITIONS
 For purposes of this policy, an employee’s last day of work shall be the last day on which the
employee was physically working on the job.

 The categories of separation and their definitions are:

♦ Voluntary Resignation: A voluntary separation of employment which includes the following
circumstances:
• Resignation (employees are expected to provide a minimum of two weeks written notice).
• An absence of three (3) or more consecutive working days without any notice to the
employee’s department head and/or supervisor is considered a “voluntary resignation for
job abandonment”.
• Failure to return from an approved leave of absence.
• Failure to return from a reduction in force/layoff recall.

♦ Involuntary Termination:  A separation in which the employee may not be qualified or adapted
for the type of work assigned and no other assignment is available.  This category also
includes employees who are unable to perform satisfactorily during the probationary
employment period, or employees who are terminated for violation of employee standards of
conduct or safety regulations, unsatisfactory job performance, or any other reason deemed
appropriate by the County.

♦ Retirement: A voluntary separation which usually includes qualification for benefits under the
County’s pension plan.

♦ Reduction in Force or Layoff:  Work is no longer available, the job has been eliminated, the
contract expired, the department closed, etc.

♦ Deceased: The death of an employee.

 PROCEDURE
♦ Notice to Employee: There are no requirements for advance notice to employees upon
separation, with the exception of notice of layoff as described in Policy No. 29.

♦ Management Approvals: When an employee is terminated or laid off, written approval is
required from the employee’s supervisor and department head, as well as the approval of the
Director of Human Resources.

♦ Change in Status:  Supervisors and department heads are responsible for completing or
requesting from Human Resources the necessary Termination Request for employees who
are leaving the payroll of Klamath County.

♦ Resignation:  An employee who resigns, with or without notice, should be asked to provide
his/her supervisor with a letter documenting the voluntary resignation.  The original letter
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual –– Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments - 11/20/2018) – Page 000-14
should be forwarded to the Human Resources Department for retention in the employee’s file.
Employees who do not provide a two (2) week notice will normally be considered "not eligible
for rehire".

♦ Return of Equipment and Keys:  Prior to the last day of work the supervisor must obtain all
equipment and keys from the separated employee.

♦ Final Paychecks:  Employees who are involuntarily terminated will receive their final
paycheck no later than the end of the next business day following the termination (ORS
652.140(1)).  Every effort will be made to provide employees who voluntarily terminate
employment their final paycheck on their last day worked.  For additional information
regarding final paychecks refer to Policy No. 210.  Employees will pick-up their final
paychecks from Human Resources so that the appropriate out-processing can occur (i.e.
COBRA, Pension, Property Control, etc.), unless prior arrangements have been made
through the Human Resources Director or his/her designee.

♦ Employment References for Separated Employees:  References are not normally
provided; however, any information should be provided by the Human Resources Department
and as specified by Policy 026, Personnel Records.

029. LAYOFF AND RECALL
(Amended Effective 12-01-2012)

 PURPOSE
 To provide guidelines for layoff and recall procedures.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to all Klamath County employees except those otherwise covered by collective
bargaining agreements.

 POLICY
 Economic conditions, changes in technology or other unforeseen circumstances may require
adjustments in staff levels by means of a layoff or reduction-in-force.

 DEFINITIONS
 Layoff is defined as situations where work is no longer available, the job is eliminated, the contract
expired, the department closed, etc.

PROCEDURE
 These procedures will guide decreases in the work force during a layoff period:

♦ Layoff Process:  When the number of employees must be reduced, the Board of County
Commissioners, or their designee, will establish the order in which the positions are affected
using guidelines based on the importance of each position, the continued existence of the
department, function or program, and the circumstances that have necessitated the layoff.
Layoffs may be made according to relative qualification.  Retention will be based on skills and
abilities.  Employees will not have bumping rights based on seniority.

♦ Advance Notice:  Whenever possible, thirty (30) days’ notice will be given to employees
scheduled to be separated due to layoff.

♦ Recall Process:  A notice of recall from layoff shall be mailed regular and certified mail to the
employee’s last known address on file with Klamath County Human Resources.  It is the
employee’s responsibility to inform the County when their address changes.  The employee
shall have three (3) days from receipt of notification of the recall to notify the County of their
intent to return to work.  Failure to return from a reduction in force/layoff recall shall be
considered a voluntary resignation.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 w/amendments – 10/20/2018– Page 100-1
100. WAGE AND SALARY ADMINISTRATION

110. FLSA EXEMPT / NON-EXEMPT STATUS

 PURPOSE
To define exempt and non-exempt employee status and to provide guidelines for determining this
status according to law.

 SCOPE
This policy applies to all Klamath County employees.

 POLICY
 All positions within Klamath County will be classified as either FLSA Exempt or FLSA Non-Exempt
as required by the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) and other applicable federal and state laws.

 DEFINITIONS
 Definitions of exempt and non-exempt status are based on provisions of the Fair Labor Standards
Act (FLSA) and state law.  (Note:  FLSA Exempt or FLSA Non-Exempt status does not relate in
any way to union or non-union status.)  These FLSA definitions are summarized as follows:

♦ FLSA Exempt: Select management, supervisory, professional or administrative employees
whose position duties meet the requirements established by the FLSA and state law to allow
exemption from the overtime pay requirements.  Employees must fit plainly and unmistakably
within the exemptions provided by law.  The three categories of exempt status and conditions
to meet are as follows:

Executives, managers or supervisors:
• The employee must supervise two or more employees, and
• Must have hiring and firing authority to be able to make recommendations that
carry weight, and
• Must regularly exercise independent judgment and discretionary power, and
• The employee’s primary duty (more than 50% of work time) must be
management of the enterprise or a department, and
• The employee must be paid on a salary basis at a stated minimum amount.

Administrative employees:
• The employee must perform responsible non-manual work directly related to
management policies or business operations,
• The employee must regularly assist an executive, or perform work under only
general supervision, and
• The employee must regularly exercise independent judgment and discretionary
power, and
• The employee’s primary duty must be administrative and the employee must be
paid on a salary basis at a stated minimum amount.

Professional employees:
• The employee must perform work requiring an advanced type of knowledge
usually obtained through a prolonged course of study, or
• The employee must perform work requiring invention, imagination, originality
and/or talent in an artistic field and
• The employee regularly exercise independent judgment and discretion; and
• The employee’s primary duty (more that 50% of the work time) must be
professional as set out in bullets 1 or 2 above; and
• The employee must be paid a salary as determined by current State or Federal
law; or if the first three tests are met, the person can be paid $455 per week and
perform non-exempt tasks no more than 20% of the workweek.

♦ FLSA Non-exempt:  Employees whose positions do not meet FLSA exemption tests and who
either accrue compensatory time at a rate of 1.5 hours for every overtime hour worked, or
who are paid one-and-one-half times their regular rate of pay for hours worked in excess of 40
hours in a pay week.
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 w/amendments – 10/20//2018 – Page 100-2
PROCEDURE
The Human Resources Department determines the FLSA Exempt or Non-Exempt status of
employees.  In cases where the status is in doubt, the supervisor should contact the Human
Resources Department and request a review of the position duties and responsibilities against
FLSA exemption standards.

In order to maintain legal compliance, the Director of Human Resources will make the final
decision in all cases, seeking guidance from legal counsel when necessary.

111. SALARY PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION

 PURPOSE
 To maintain a program of internally and externally equitable or consistent salaries that are
comparable to similar positions in designated employment markets.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to all positions in Klamath County, except elected officials and those otherwise
covered by collective bargaining agreements.

 POLICY
 The County strives to pay salaries competitive to similar positions within a designated and
appropriate employment market.  Determination of salary policy is the responsibility of the Board
of County Commissioners.  Administration of the program is the responsibility of the Director of
Human Resources.

SALARY PROGRAM ELEMENTS
♦ Classification Plans:  Each position in the County has been placed in a classification plan
which establishes the value of the position in relation to other positions in the organization.
The Classification Plan includes titles for various classes of positions with the intent of
providing equal pay for equal work.  Job titles refer to the positions, not the employee filling a
particular position, and shall be used in all human resource, budget and financial records.
Each position is allocated to an appropriate classification, based on knowledge, skills and
abilities required to perform the duties, as well as the nature of the duties and responsibilities
of the position.  (For classification of new positions and/or reclassification of existing positions,
see Policy No. 112.)  Detailed job descriptions for each position within the Classification Plan,
as well as the Classification Plan, are on file and available for review in the Human Resources
Department.  All job descriptions for new positions must be developed by supervisors and/or
Department Heads in cooperation with the Human Resources Department.  Inclusion within a
bargaining unit will be reviewed and a copy of the job description will be forwarded to the
bargaining unit for verification and input when applicable.

♦ Salary Schedules:  Each classification level has been assigned a salary range.  Employees
will receive a salary that is within the range limits of the applicable classification level.

• Range Minimum.  The minimum of the appropriate salary range.  Employees will receive
a salary that is within the range limits of the applicable classification level.

Requests for placement at any level greater than step 1 should include a written
justification for the request of a higher rate of pay.  Any placement above step 1 must be
recommended by the Department Head and approved by the Director of Human
Resources and Board of County Commissioners, in accordance with Section 020,
Recruitment & Selection, Hiring Recommendation & Decision, at a public meeting prior to
making a formal job offer.

• Range Maximum.  The maximum of a salary range normally provides an upper limit of
what employees in that classification may be paid.

♦ Promotions Defined:  A promotion is a change in status for an employee to a higher classified
position.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 w/amendments – 10/20//2018 – Page 100-3
♦ Promotion Increases:  Salary increases generally are granted when the new job duties are
fully assumed for the promotion, advancing the employee to the step of the new range that is
closest to 5% of the current base salary for upward advancement.  The date of promotion
establishes a new anniversary date for purposes of performance evaluation and
compensation increases.

♦ Temporary Assignment Out of Classification:  Employees assigned on a temporary basis in
excess of two (2) weeks, to fulfill on a full-time basis all of the routine responsibilities and
duties of the employee being temporarily relieved, shall be paid in accordance with the higher
classification rate, or the employee’s regular rate, whichever is higher.  Employees to be
temporarily paid at the higher classification rate shall be placed at the first step or at the step
which is closest to a 5% increase.  When the employee is fulfilling only a portion of the job
duties of higher classification position, a flat out of class percentage or stipend will be paid.
The percentage will be determined on a case-by-case basis and will be commensurate to the
work being performed.  Employees assigned on a temporary basis to a lower job classification
shall be paid the rate for their regular classification.  A temporary assignment shall be for a
maximum of thirty (30) consecutive working days, unless otherwise mutually agreed upon
between the Department Head and the Director of Human Resources.  This section shall not
be applicable for temporary assignments involving vacation coverage.  All out of class pay
and stipends will be routed for approval by the Board of County Commissioners through the
Human Resources Department.

When an employee is temporarily assigned for relief purposes, it shall be the responsibility of
the Department Head to provide the employee with advance written notice of the nature of the
responsibilities expected of the employee, the rate of pay during the period of temporary
assignment, and the duration of the assignment, if known.  This provision shall not be
applicable in emergency situations.

 MAINTENANCE OF SALARY SCHEDULE
 Salary schedules of the County pay structure are reviewed by the Human Resources Department
on a periodic basis to determine their integrity and adequacy for business and market conditions.
Based on this analysis, a recommendation for increase or decrease may be made to the Board of
County Commissioners.  While adjustments may be made to the structure, salaries paid to
individuals may not necessarily be adjusted at that time.

 Employees at step 1 will normally be moved to step 2 upon successful completion of one (1) year
of service.  Increases beyond step 2 shall be substantiated by above average performance
evaluations and are subject to the positive recommendation of the Department Head.  Any
recommended salary increase beyond one step within a budget year requires the approval of the
Board of County Commissioners in a work session.

PROVISIONS TO COVER “SPECIAL CONDITIONS” OF PARTICULAR DEPARTMENTS
The following provisions are intended to cover special conditions which affect only the particular
department(s) which are identified below.

 1. Public Works
Employees of the Public Works Department that are assigned to emergency utility locating are
required to be on-call.  The Following rates are considered to be inclusive for an employee
carrying a pager, cellular phone, or similar device.  On-call pay is considered inclusive for the
first two (2) hours worked per event while on-call, including travel time.  Multiple brief calls
during the on-call period will be handled through the flexing of the work schedule by the
employee and supervisor.  After two hours of on-call work performed it is understood that an
hourly pay rate equivalent of call-back time would result and the employee shall be
compensated in accordance with Policy No. 211 if applicable.  The work hours can be
adjusted based on the employee’s work schedule.

Weekend On-Call (from Friday 5 p.m. to Monday 8 a.m.):   $150.00
Holiday On-Call (from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. on County recognized holidays): $  85.00
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 w/amendments – 10/20//2018 – Page 100-4
112. CLASSIFICATION AND RECLASSIFICATION OF POSITIONS

 PURPOSE
 To ensure equal treatment of all employees and departments, and to enable maintenance of a
sound classification and compensation system.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to all positions and departments in Klamath County, except elected officials
and those otherwise covered by collective bargaining agreements.

 POLICY
 Any significant change in job duties contemplated by any Department Head which could affect any
position or group of positions within a department should be reviewed, in writing, with the Board of
County Commissioners in a public meeting prior to implementation of such changes.  A significant
change shall be interpreted as any change which could lead to an increase or decrease in job
responsibilities which could potentially result in an increase or decrease in the classification level
of the position.  This same process applies to new positions being created within the County.

PROCEDURE
Any proposed change of duties which could affect a position’s classification should be submitted
in writing to the Human Resources Department.    The Human Resources Department will be
directed to conduct a study for job evaluation and proper classification.

Classifications or reclassifications shall only be developed or modified outside of the budget
process.  Budget line items modifying existing classifications shall be considered as planning
parameters.  (Note: reclassifications also include job pricing studies and adjustments).

Once the reclassification study is complete, the findings and recommendations will be presented
to the Board of County Commissioners in a work session by the Department Head and the
Human Resources Department.  The Department Head should include a statement of projected
fiscal impact of any reclassification and whether funds are available in the department’s budget.
When applicable, this report may include suggested alternatives for the management of workload
or staffing issues that initially prompted the reclassification request.  If the BOCC determines there
is sufficient cause and funding for possible reclassification.  Human Resources will forward the
signed approval or denial to the Department Head and the County Treasurer.  Except those
otherwise covered by a collective bargaining agreement, the employee will be placed at the step
closest to their current wage and their anniversary date will not change.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 10/20/2018) – Page 200-1
200. HOURS OF WORK AND PAYROLL PRACTICES

210. HOURS OF WORK AND PAYDAYS (Amended Effective 12-13-2016)

 PURPOSE
 To establish the hours of employment in the County’s basic workday and workweek and to identify
pay periods and paydays to allow for the accurate payment of wages, salaries and overtime.

. SCOPE
 This policy applies to all Klamath County employees, except elected officials and those otherwise
covered by collective bargaining agreements.

 POLICY
♦ Hours of Work:  The Klamath County offices shall be open to the public at times as approved
by the Board of County Commissioners, except during County authorized holidays.  Each
office with three (3) or more employees shall be required to remain open through the lunch
period.  Departments with less than three (3) employees shall consult their Liaison
Commissioner to establish consistent office hours beyond the normal core hours.  This should
not, however, result in the payment of overtime and cannot violate any state or federal law or
County policy.  Exceptions to this policy can be authorized, in writing, by the Board of County
Commissioners.

Lunch and Rest Periods:  Except in emergency situations or unusual circumstances, non-exempt
employees should receive an unpaid meal break during each work period of six (6) hours or more in
duration.  During this break, the employee must be relieved of all work duties.  To the extent consistent
with operating requirements of the respective departments, meal periods shall be not less than thirty (30)
and no more than sixty (60) minutes and shall be scheduled at or near the middle of the work shift.
Klamath County non-exempt employees should also receive one fifteen minute break for every segment
of four (4) hours worked in one shift.  This break period should be scheduled at the discretion of the
employee’s immediate supervisor.  Breaks and lunches are statutory rights that cannot be waived by the
employee (i.e. skip two 15-minute breaks and leave work 30 minutes early), especially on a regular basis.
For emergency situations or unusual circumstances, adjustments can be made in accordance with Policy
No. 212, Flextime.
♦ Rest Periods for Expression of Breast Milk:  Klamath County will provide reasonable rest
periods to accommodate an employee who needs to express milk for her child eighteen (18)
months of age or younger.  If feasible, the employee will take the rest periods to express milk
at the same time as their lunch or rest periods that are otherwise provided to the employee.  If
not feasible, the employee is entitled to take reasonable time as needed to express breast
milk.  The County will treat the rest periods used by the employee for expressing milk as paid
rest breaks up to the amount of time the County is required to provide as paid rest periods
and/or meal periods under applicable policies or collective bargaining agreements.  Additional
time needed beyond the paid rest periods or meal periods may be taken as unpaid time.  If an
employee takes unpaid rest breaks, the County may, at the discretion of the employee’s
supervisor, allow the employee to flex their time to make up the amount of time used during
the unpaid rest periods.

♦ Paydays: Klamath County employees are paid on a semi-monthly basis.  Paychecks are
issued on the 10
th and 25th day of each month.  If the above dates fall on a Saturday, Sunday
or holiday, payment will be made on the preceding workday.  Pay periods officially end based
on the following schedule:

Pay period Pay Day
1 - 15 25th
16 - last day of month 10th
Note:  Variations in this schedule may occur due to unusual circumstances.

♦ Overpayment:  Any employee who is paid for time not worked or otherwise receives
compensation for which they did not qualify, shall have that amount deducted from their check
for the following pay period if authorized by the employee in writing.  Otherwise, the employee
will be expected to reimburse the County for the amount of overpayment received.
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 10/20/2018) – Page 200-2
♦ Final Paychecks - Voluntary Resignation without Notice:  If an employee voluntarily
terminates employment with the County providing less than 48 hours advance written notice
(excluding weekends and holidays) the paycheck will be available within five (5) business
days or on the next regular payday, whichever comes first  (ORS 652.140(2)).  All final
paychecks will be available to former employees at the Human Resources Department unless
the employee authorizes in writing to receive the final paycheck via certified mail to the last
known address of the employee.  (i.e. An employee quits without notice on Monday, one week
before Labor Day.  The final check must be paid by the Tuesday after Labor Day, unless a
regular payday occurs before that date.)  Note:  All County property must be returned prior to
the release of a final check.  This includes keys, tools, uniforms, County identification cards,
alarm codes, telephone/voicemail passwords, computer passwords, and any outstanding
financial debt.

♦ Final Paychecks - Voluntary Resignation with Notice:  Employees who voluntarily
terminate employment with at least 48 hours’ notice, (excluding weekends and holidays), will
receive their final check on the last day worked.  In the event the last day worked is a
weekend or holiday, the check will be available on the next business day (ORS
652.140(2)(3)).  (i.e. An employee gives three days’ notice that Saturday will be the last day
worked.  The final check is due on Monday; or, an employee gives two days’ notice that Friday
will be the last day worked.  The final check is due on Friday.)

♦ Final Paychecks - Involuntary Termination:  Employees who are involuntarily terminated
will receive their final paycheck no later than the end of the next business day following the
termination (ORS 652.140(1)).

211. OVERTIME / COMPENSATORY (COMP) TIME

 PURPOSE
 To provide guidelines for the administration of overtime payments to comply with applicable
federal and state wage and hour regulations.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to all non-exempt Klamath County employees except those otherwise covered
by collective bargaining agreements.

. POLICY
 The County’s overtime pay policy conforms to overtime provisions of the Federal Fair Labor
Standards Act (FLSA) and applicable state laws.  Exemption from these provisions can be
honored only when it can clearly be established that the employee’s duties and responsibilities
meet the requirements for exemption from the FLSA.  (See Policy No. 110, FLSA Exempt/Non-
Exempt Status.)

Overtime pay policy for employees includes the following principal elements:

♦ Non-exempt employees will be paid straight time for all hours worked up to a maximum of
forty (40) hours in a pay week.  For purposes of overtime payment, the County’s established
pay week is 12:00am Sunday through 11:59pm Saturday.

♦ Non-exempt employees will either accrue comp time at a rate of one and one-half (1.5) hours
for every one (1) overtime hour worked, or be paid time-and-one-half the regular pay rate for
hours worked in excess of forty hours in one week.

♦ Non-exempt employees who work on a holiday will receive straight pay at their regular rate for
hours worked and will receive eight (8) hours pay for the holiday.

♦ Paid time off for holidays, jury duty, vacation, sick leave or any other paid leave of absence
will be considered “hours worked” when calculating overtime pay.

♦ Overtime worked by non-exempt employees must be authorized in writing in advance by the
employee’s supervisor and/or Department Head.  An employee’s signature on their timesheet
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 10/20/2018) – Page 200-3
is an acknowledgement that they are accepting receipt of compensatory time in lieu of
overtime pay.

♦ Only in emergency situations where health and safety of the public are involved will overtime
be allowed without Department Head approval.  In such instances, approval after the fact
should be obtained as soon as possible.

♦ Work compensated at overtime levels will be paid to bargaining unit employees in accordance
with the provisions of collective bargaining agreement(s).

♦ If compensatory time is given rather than overtime payment, every effort shall be made to
allow eligible employees to utilize earned compensatory time off within the pay period in which
the time was earned.  All compensatory time must be taken before any annual leave is
approved.

♦ Compensatory time is accrued at the overtime rate and paid at the straight time rate.  Earned
compensatory time may be taken off with the Department Head’s approval.  Employees may
accumulate up to sixty-six (66) hours of compensatory time.  Should any employee
accumulate more than sixty-six (66) hours, the employee will receive payment for the
compensatory time accumulated in excess of sixty-six (66) hours on the next regular pay day.
Compensatory time will be paid out at full-value upon termination of employment or
reclassification to FLSA exempt status.

212. FLEXTIME

 PURPOSE
To provide employees limited opportunity to alter the start or end of their workdays such that the
total hours worked during a given period is not affected.

SCOPE
 This policy applies to all FLSA Non-Exempt Klamath County employees except those otherwise
covered by a collective bargaining agreement.  The farther flexible hours are extended, as from
the day to the month, the more reliance is placed upon having a staff with a responsible attitude
toward work and a management with confidence and trust in the staff.

POLICY
♦ Hours of Work.  The concept of flextime incorporates two different types of time:  core time
and flexible time.  Core time is the number of hours designated during which all employees
must be present at work.  Flexible time is all the time designated as part of the schedule of
work hours within which the employee may choose to alter his/her time of arrival and
departure from work, with prior supervisor approval.

♦ Requirements:  1) the employee must be present during core time, 2) non-exempt employees
must continue to account for the total number of hours worked each day, and 3) the total
number of hours worked by non-exempt employees cannot exceed 40 without incurring an
overtime expense.

♦ Flextime by the week:  By definition, this is the carryover of debit or credit hours within the
workweek.  This enables the employee to cope with fluctuating work load without working
overtime and better suiting his/her own convenience.  The employee should be concerned
with accounting for the actual number of hours worked during the week and with being
present during core times.

PROCEDURE
♦ The Department Head is responsible for designating core time for each area under his/her
responsibility in order to best align the needs of the organization to the service of the Public.
For example, within an office environment, the core time may be 9:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m.

♦ Employees are responsible for developing a flextime schedule with their supervisor.  For
example, an employee’s start time could be 7 a.m. and departure time could be 4 p.m.
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 10/20/2018) – Page 200-4
(providing for complete coverage during the established 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. “core time”).
Another example would be a starting time of 9 a.m. and departure time of 6 p.m.  This system
allows employees to manage their time more effectively in conjunction with supervisory
approval.

♦ Urgent, unexpected projects may dictate the need for an employee to work over an eight-hour
day.  In order to compensate for that time and remain within the 40 hour weekly limit, flextime
can be utilized to off-set the additional time worked by allowing the employee to report to work
the next day at a later time or leave early the following day.

♦ At no time can the employee choose to flex their schedule without supervisory approval.

♦ Cooperation of both the employee and supervisor is critical.  Accountability of all work hours
remains imperative.
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 10/20/2018) – Page 300-1
300. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS AND SERVICES

310. VACATION

 PURPOSE
 To provide a traditional paid-time-off benefit that will provide a restful break in year-round routine
and support Klamath County’s goal to attract and retain quality employees.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to all regular employees of Klamath County, except elected officials and those
otherwise covered by collective bargaining agreements.

 POLICY
 The County encourages each employee to take an annual vacation entitlement as paid time off
away from work.  The County does not provide vacation pay unless vacation time is actually taken
as time off from work or upon separation.

 Vacation time is for the benefit of each employee, and is not transferable from one employee to
another, except as otherwise approved by the BOCC.

 ELIGIBILITY
♦ Bargaining unit employees will receive vacation credit and accrued vacation in accordance
with the provisions of their collective bargaining agreements.

♦ Employees who have not completed their six (6) month benefit waiting period shall not be
entitled to vacation time or vacation pay upon termination.

♦ Employees who transfer from a part-time or non-benefit eligible position to a benefit eligible
position are required to complete a six (6) month benefit waiting period to be entitled to
vacation time or vacation pay upon termination.

♦ The accrual of vacation time will be limited to twice the amount of vacation time that the
employee can currently earn in one year not to exceed a maximum of 400 hours for FLSA
non-exempt employees and 50 days for FLSA exempt employees.  Employees will not receive
payment in lieu of vacation time, with the exception of those employees who retire or
terminate with unused remaining accrued time.

♦ Newly hired employees may not utilize vacation during the first six months of their
probationary employment period (six month benefit waiting period).  However, at the
completion of this period, vacation accrual is retroactive to the employee’s date of hire.

♦ Vacation time is not earned during an unpaid leave of absence.  Accrual resumes upon return
to active status.

♦ Unused vacation entitlement will be paid to employees upon separation provided they have
completed their six (6) month benefit waiting period.  Pay will be computed based on the rate
earned upon separation.

♦ The following schedule specifies the amount of vacation earned by non-exempt and exempt
eligible employees for a corresponding period of continuous service:

 Length of Service Completed  Hours Earned Per Month (prorated based on FTE)

 Less than six years                    6.668       (10 days per year)
 Six years (higher accrual begins on the 5th anniversary)   10.0012     (15 days per year)
 Eleven years (higher accrual begins on the 10th anniversary)   12.0016     (18 days per year)
 Sixteen years (higher accrual begins on the 15th anniversary) 14.6674     (22 days per year)
 Twenty years (higher accrual begins on the 19th anniversary)   16.6676     (25 days per year)

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 10/20/2018) – Page 300-2
♦ Hours paid, for the purpose of vacation accrual, are defined as hours actually worked, as well
as paid time off for vacation, sick leave, bereavement leave and holidays.  Overtime hours are
not included in calculation of vacation accrual.

SCHEDULING
♦ Vacations may be taken in increments of quarter-hours, half-hours, hours, days or weeks.

♦ Selection of vacation dates is subject to approval of the employee’s supervisor and/or
Department Head.  Requests must be submitted in writing on the official Klamath County
Leave Request Form; the form must be signed by the employee, his/her supervisor, and the
Department Head.  It is mandatory that the signed forms be submitted to and kept in the
central leave file in the Human Resources Department.  Scheduled vacations must not
adversely affect the operation of the Department or the County’s business.

♦ If a paid holiday falls during an employee’s vacation, the holiday will not be counted as
vacation taken.

♦ Each supervisor shall maintain a department schedule and record of the vacation time taken
by each employee.

311. HOLIDAY PAY
(Amended Effective 12-16-2014)

 PURPOSE
 To provide a paid-time-off benefit to recognize traditional holidays.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to regular, full-time and regular, half-time employees of Klamath County,
except those otherwise covered by collective bargaining agreements.

 POLICY
♦ With the exception of our floating holidays, regular, full-time and half-time employees are
eligible for holiday pay upon employment.  Eligibility for use of Floating Holidays occurs upon
completion of the six (6) month benefit waiting period.  Full-time and salaried employees will
be paid holiday hours based on what they would normally be scheduled to work.  Department
Heads are responsible for ensuring what these hours are.

♦ The following days are recognized as paid holidays:

Holiday     Date Observed

New Year’s Day     January 1
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day   Third Monday in January
President’s Day     Third Monday in February
Memorial Day     Last Monday in May
Independence Day    July 4
Labor Day     First Monday in September
Veteran’s Day     November 11
Thanksgiving Day    Fourth Thursday in November
Day After Thanksgiving Day   Fourth Friday in November
Christmas Day     December 25
Two Floating Holidays (each fiscal year)

♦ Floating Holidays are to be taken between July 1 and June 30 scheduled in advance with the
approval of the employee’s supervisor and Department Head.

♦ Accrual of floating holiday hours for newly hired employees shall be prorated in direct
proportion to the number of hours worked during their first fiscal year of employment.  Floating
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 10/20/2018) – Page 300-3
holiday hours will be based upon a pro-ration of the employee’s budgeted FTE times 16
hours.

♦ Newly hired employees and employees who have transferred from a non-benefit eligible
position to a benefit eligible position shall not be eligible to utilize floating holiday hours until
after the successful completion of the six (6) month benefit waiting period.

♦ Floating holidays may not be carried forward from one fiscal year to the next fiscal year.

♦ Once an employee gives notice of resignation, they may not take a floating holiday, unless it
was previously approved and scheduled on the appropriate Leave Request form.

♦ Accrued, but unused floating holidays will not be paid out upon separation of employment for
any reason.

♦ Whenever a paid holiday falls on a Saturday, it will be observed on the preceding Friday; paid
holidays which fall on a Sunday will be observed on the following Monday.

♦ If a paid holiday falls during an employee’s authorized vacation, sick leave, or other leave with
pay, the holiday will not be counted against such leave.

♦ An employee who separates or commences an unpaid leave of absence on the last
scheduled workday preceding a holiday will not receive holiday pay.

♦ Non-exempt employees required to work on a scheduled holiday will be paid straight time
their regular rate for hours worked, in addition to their regular holiday pay.  A paid holiday not
worked will not be credited as a regular work day for computation of weekly overtime.  An
exempt employee required to work on a holiday will be given another day off at a time
mutually convenient to the employee and the Department Head, usually within 30 days
following the holiday.  Eligible employees will receive one day’s pay for each of the holidays
listed above on which they perform no work.

♦ Full-time non-exempt employees that work a flexible schedule and a holiday falls on their day
off shall be awarded another day off at their applicable rate.  Such day off shall be as mutually
agreed to between the employee and their department head, or his/her designee, but shall be
approved and taken within ten (10) working days from the date of such holiday.  (For example
if a non-exempt employee works four (4) ten (10) hour days per week and a holiday falls on
their day off; that employee shall be awarded another day off with eight (8) hours of holiday
pay credit or if the employee is a 37.5 hour employee, they will be awarded seven and half
(7.5) hours of holiday pay credit.)

♦ Full-time exempt employees that work a flexible schedule and a holiday falls on their day off
shall be awarded another day off.  Such day off shall be as mutually agreed to between the
employee and their department head, or his/her designee, but shall be approved and taken
within ten (10) working days from the date of such holiday.

♦ Half-time employees will be eligible for holiday pay equal to a proration of the employees
budgeted FTE times eight (8) hours.  When a holiday falls on a day off for a less than full-time
(40 hours per week) employee, that employee shall be awarded another day off with pay at
the prorated rate.  Such day off shall be as mutually agreed to between the employee and
their department head, or his/her designee, but shall be approved and taken within ten (10)
working days from the date of such holiday.

♦ Temporary and part-time employees are paid for hours worked and do not accrue holiday
leave.
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 10/20/2018) – Page 300-4
312. SICK LEAVE (Amended effective 12-13-2016)

 PURPOSE
To provide income protection for employees who, because of illness or accident, are absent from
work, or absences provided for under the FMLA or OFLA Leave Acts (see policy #315 for greater
detail).

SCOPE
This policy applies to all employees, except elected officials and those otherwise covered by
collective bargaining agreements.  Sick leave for staffing agency workers will be administered by
the staffing agency that is responsible for paying the worker’s wages.

POLICY
♦ Amount of Benefit.  During absence from work caused by illness or accident, an eligible
employee’s wage or salary will be continued for the amount of time accrued in the employee’s
sick leave account.

 For non-exempt regular half-time and full-time employees, sick leave shall accrue
at the rate of 4.0005 hours per pay period and is prorated based on hours worked
from the date of hire; sick time hours are not included as hours worked.

 For exempt regular half-time and full-time employees, sick leave shall accrue at
the rate of one (1) day per month.  The accrual rate shall be based upon a pro-
ration of the employee’s budgeted FTE times 8 hours.

 For part-time employees, sick leave shall accrue at the rate of 1 hour for every 30
hours worked from the date of hire; sick time hours are not included as hours
worked.  Part-time employees hired prior to January 1, 2016, shall begin accruing
from January 1, 2016.

 For employees that work a secondary job at a higher rate of pay, sick leave will
be accounted and recorded for out of their primary position budget and rate of
pay.

 Overtime and time spent on sick leave are not included as hours worked in the
sick leave calculation; time spent on vacation and paid holidays shall be treated
as time worked for purposes of this section.

 Sick leave shall not accrue during any period of leave of absence without pay.

• Regular half-time and full-time employees:
  Sick leave may be accumulated to a total of 1,290 hours.  Accrued and
unused sick leave may carry over to the following year of employment;
however, the accumulated total shall not exceed 1290 hours.  Accrual
stops once this limit is reached and accrual does not recommence until
sick leave is used to bring the total accrual below 1290 hours.

• Part-time employees:
   Sick leave may accumulate up to 40 hours per year.  Accrued and
unused sick leave may carry over to the following year of employment;
however, the accumulated total shall not exceed 80 hours.  Accrual stops
once this limit is reached and accrual does not recommence until sick
leave is used to bring the total accrual below 80 hours.

 Amounts paid to an employee under Workers’ Compensation Insurance will be
deducted from these payments.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 10/20/2018) – Page 300-5
♦ Eligibility.  Regular half-time and full-time employees are eligible for the benefit upon accrual.
Part-time employees are eligible to use available sick leave beginning on the 91st calendar
day of employment.  Part-time employees hired prior to January 1, 2016, shall be eligible for
benefit upon accrual.  Part-time employees that work an On-Call shift are entitled to use sick
time for hours they have been scheduled to work.  Being “scheduled to work” does not include
shifts for which an employee has been asked to be available or on-call, unless the employee
is working while on-call.  The County may require an employee to support a request for sick
leave benefits with medical certification.  Failure to provide medical certification as requested
may lead to a denial of benefits and possible corrective action.

♦ Separation.  Employees hired after January 1, 1998 will not be paid for unused accrued sick
leave upon termination of employment.  Regular half-time and full-time employees hired prior
to January 1, 1998, upon death, retirement or voluntary termination of any employee after five
(5) years of continuous employment, the employee, or his/her beneficiary, will be paid for one-
half of the accrued sick leave up to a maximum of 480 hours.  Employees who separate from
employment (voluntarily or involuntarily) and are rehired within 180 days, shall have any
previously accrued and unused sick leave reinstated and be made available in accordance
with their applicable eligibility waiting period.  For part-time employees their previous waiting
period will apply towards their rehire waiting period until the combined total exceeds the 90
day waiting period.

PROCEDURE
♦ These guidelines should be followed by supervisors in administering sick leave.

♦ Supervisor Contact.  On the first day of absence, an employee must contact his or her
supervisor at the beginning of their shift (or make other suitable arrangements) in order for the
supervisor to know the employee’s estimated date of return to work.  Sick leave benefits are
contingent upon maintenance of regular contact.  Employees should contact their supervisor
at least once a week unless other arrangements are agreed upon.

♦ Physician’s Release Upon Return.  Depending on the length and circumstances of an
employee’s disability, the supervisor may require a physician’s written release before the
employee may return to work.

♦ In certain cases, the Family Medical Leave Act or Oregon Family Leave may apply.  Be sure
to review these policies contained later in this section for additional information.

313. OTHER PAID TIME OFF
(Amended Effective 02-25-2014)

 PURPOSE
 To provide a means for employees to secure limited time off when such time is needed for
bereavement, jury duty and voting.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to all regular benefit eligible employees of Klamath County and employees are
eligible for this benefit upon hire unless noted otherwise, nor does this section apply to elected
officials and those otherwise covered by collective bargaining agreements.

POLICY
 Management Days (Specified Department Heads Only).  Department Heads shall receive one (1)
management day per quarter in addition to their annual vacation accrual after one year in that
position.  Such leave is granted in lieu of compensation for overtime worked and to alleviate job
related stress associated with many management positions.  Management days do not accrue
and may not be carried forward from one quarter to the next.  Requests for such leave must be
submitted and processed in the same manner as vacation requests.   Department Heads that
qualify for these management days are determined by the Board of County Commissioners.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 10/20/2018) – Page 300-6
 Bereavement.  In the event of death in an employee’s immediate family, the County grants up to
five (5) working days, with pay, to handle family affairs and attend the funeral.  Under this policy,
immediate family is defined as: spouse, child, parent, grandchild, grandparent, brother, brother-in-
law, sister, sister-in-law, present mother-in-law or father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, step-
parent or step-child.  Additional leave time may be granted under Oregon leave laws (see Policy
No. 315 or contact Human Resources).

 Jury Duty.  In order that regular employees may serve on a jury, if such service is completed by
summons or subpoena, without loss of earnings, the County will pay an employee’s normal
earnings for the period of jury service.  The employee must then sign over to the County all court
payments received for jury service.  Upon being excused from jury service, an employee shall
immediately contact his/her supervisor and/or Department Head for assignment for the remainder
of his/her regular workday.  Volunteer jury service of any kind will not be compensated.

 Time Off To Vote.  Full-time employees who lack sufficient time outside work hours to vote in
local, state and national elections may take up to one hour off work for this purpose.  Employees
requiring time off to vote must obtain the approval of their supervisor.

 Time off to Donate Blood.  Klamath County supports the community blood program by authorizing
the American Red Cross Bloodmobile to park at various County locations.  Employees are
encouraged to donate blood and with their supervisor’s approval, may do so on County time.

 PROCEDURE
♦ Employees will continue to be covered under all insured benefit plans while they are on paid
personal time off.

♦ Employees must obtain authorization for utilization of paid personal time off.  Authorization
must be obtained by completion and signing of the official County leave request form (KCHR
Form #2).  Supervisors will record paid personal time off on the employee payroll timesheet
using the appropriate code.

314. LEAVES OF ABSENCE
(Amended Effective 02-25-2014)

 PURPOSE
 To enable employees to receive extended time away from work to satisfy military service
obligations or handle compelling personal business.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to regular full-time and half-time employees, except those otherwise covered
by collective bargaining agreements.

 POLICY
 Leaves of absence without pay may be granted to regular full-time and half-time employees to
maintain continuity of service only in instances where unusual or unavoidable circumstances
require prolonged absence.

 No loss of service credit with the County will occur as a result of the leave of absence, but no
benefit credit will accrue toward vacation and sick leave entitlement for the duration of the leave.
During an unpaid leave of absence if an employee wishes to maintain their health insurance the
employee is responsible for paying for their portion of the premium.  The employee shall contact
the Payroll Manager to obtain the amount due, which shall be paid directly to Klamath County.

♦ Military Service Leave of Absence.  An employee who volunteers or is called to active military
duty in a branch of the U.S. Armed Forces will be granted a leave of absence according to
applicable state and federal law for the period of active duty.  Employees who leave County
service for military service and return to their position within 90 days after receiving an
honorable discharge shall retain their previous service credit date.

♦ Military Reserve Training.  Employees with less than 6 months of continuous service who are
on active military reserve status may take up to 15 calendar days of unpaid leave per federal
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 10/20/2018) – Page 300-7
fiscal year for military reserve training.  Employees with 6 months or more of continuous
service with Klamath County, are entitled to a maximum of 15 paid absence days.

♦ If an employee has exhausted their FMLA/OFLA time and a leave of absence is granted, the
employee shall use all accrued leave available before leave without pay commences.

♦ Personal Leave of Absence.  A personal leave of absence to handle compelling personal
business may be granted to regular, full-time and half-time employees.  Length of a personal
leave of absence may range from five (5) to ninety (90) consecutive calendar days.  To be
eligible, the employee must have maintained a satisfactory record of employment with the
County for a minimum of one year.  Employees must use all accrued vacation before a
personal leave of absence without pay commences.

♦ A personal leave of absence is approved at the discretion of the employee’s Department
Head.  The employee must be available to return to regular employment on or before the
expiration date of the leave.

 DEFINITION
 “Leave of absence” is defined as an excused absence without pay beyond five working days.  An
absence involving paid time off (i.e. jury duty, sick leave or bereavement leave) is not considered
a leave of absence.

 PROCEDURE
♦ Application and Commencement

• Requests for leave of absence or an extension thereof must be submitted in writing on the
official County employee leave request form (KCHR Form #2).  Requests must be
submitted to the employee’s Department Head two weeks prior to the commencement
date.

• Extensions of leaves of absence are ordinarily not granted but, under critical
circumstances, may be granted upon approval from the Board of County Commissioners.
♦ Reinstatement

• Upon return from a military service leave of absence, employees will be reinstated
according to applicable law.

• Upon return from a personal leave of absence, employees will be reinstated in the
following priority of position reassignment:

First: The prior position, if available.

Next: A comparable position, within the department, for which the employee is qualified,
if available.

Next: A lesser position, within the department, for which the employee is qualified.

If no work is available according to the reassignment priorities listed above, the employee
will be separated.

• An employee’s failure to return from leave of absence, or failure to contact his/her
supervisor on the scheduled date of return, will be considered a voluntary resignation.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 10/20/2018) – Page 300-8
3.15 FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE (Amended Effective 12-13-2016)

 PURPOSE
 Klamath County recognizes that certain family and medical circumstances require employees to
take time away from work.  It is Klamath County’s policy to comply with all applicable state and
federal laws dealing with domestic violence, harassment, sexual assault and stalking leave
(DVHSAS), military family leave (OMFLA), bereavement leave, family and medical leave, parental
leave and pregnancy leave.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to all regular full-time, half-time and part-time Klamath County employees,
excluding temporary employees, who have worked at least 180 consecutive days (6 months) and
have worked an average of 25 hours per week in accordance with the eligibility laws for family
leave under Oregon law (ORS 659A.150 – 659A.186) and 2080 hours in a 12-month period for
Federal Family and Medical Leave.

 POLICY
 Generally, in circumstances in which the federal Family and Medical Leave Act applies, an eligible
employee may take up to twelve (12) weeks of leave in a twelve month period for the following
reasons:

•  Birth and/or care of a child of the employee;

• Placement of a child into the employee’s family by adoption or by a foster care
arrangement;

•  In order to care for the employee’s spouse, child or parent who has a serious health
 condition; and

•  A serious health condition which renders the employee unable to perform the functions
 of the employee’s position.

 According to Oregon law, an employee may take up to 12 weeks of leave in a twelve (12) month
period for care of a family member as defined below with a serious health condition and non-
serious illnesses of children.  This also includes a victim or a parent of a minor victim of domestic
violence.  Two weeks of bereavement leave may be granted to a qualifying employee; however,
this must occur within 60 days of receiving notification of a family member’s death.

 In the case of leave for the birth or placement of a child, intermittent leave or working a reduced
number of hours is permitted.  If both spouses are employed by Klamath County, the combined
leave shall not exceed twelve (12) weeks.  For purposes of this policy, Klamath County uses a
rolling 12-month calendar to compute FMLA eligibility.

 In the case of Domestic Violence Leave and Accommodation, the employee should provide as
much advance notices as is practicable of his or her intention to take leave, unless giving advance
notice is not feasible.  Notice of need to take leave should be provided by submitting a request for
leave in writing to their supervisor, indicating the time needed, when the time will be needed, and
the reason for the leave.  The County will then generally require certification of the need for the
leave, such as a police report, protective order or other evidence of a court proceeding, or
documentation from a law enforcement officer, attorney, healthcare professional, member of the
clergy, or victim services provider.  Employees who are victims of domestic violence, harassment,
sexual assault or stalking may be entitled to a “reasonable safety accommodation” that will allow
the employee to more safely continue to work, unless such an accommodation would impose an
“undue hardship” on the County.

In the case of leave for serious health conditions, the leave may be taken intermittently or on a
reduced hours basis only if such leave is medically necessary.

 If intermittent or reduced hours leave is required, Klamath County may, with the employee’s
consent, temporarily transfer the employee to another job with equivalent pay and benefits that
better accommodates that type of leave.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 10/20/2018) – Page 300-9
 During Family and Medical Leave, Klamath County will continue to pay its portion of the health
insurance premiums and the employee must continue to pay his/her share of the premium.  If the
employee does not return to work after the expiration of the leave, the employee will be required
to reimburse the County for payment of their share of the health insurance premiums during the
FMLA leave.

If the employee has exhausted their FMLA leave, they can request a Personal Leave of Absence
in accordance with Policy No. 314.  If granted, at that time the employee will be required to
reimburse the County for payment of the full health insurance premium (the employee and
employer contribution amounts).  Failure of the employee to pay the full health insurance premium
may result in loss of coverage.  If the employee does not return to work after the expiration of the
leave, the employee will be required to reimburse the County for payment of their share of the
health insurance premiums during the FMLA leave.

 During the FMLA leave, the employee shall accrue employment benefits, such as vacation time,
sick time, pension, etc., until their leave banks are exhausted.  Employment benefits accrued by
the employee up to the day on which the FMLA begins will not be lost.  The employee will receive
holiday pay if a holiday occurs during the leave.

 Klamath County employees may utilize any accrued sick and vacation benefits during the twelve
(12) week FMLA leave and any qualifying leave under the Oregon Family Leave.  After all accrued
benefits have been exhausted, the leave will be unpaid; paid and unpaid leave combined are not
to exceed a total twelve (12) weeks.  NOTE:  That portion of the FMLA leave which is vacation
and/or sick time will be with pay according to Klamath County policies regarding vacation and sick
days.

 Employees who return to work from FMLA leave within or on the business day following the
expiration of the twelve (12) weeks are entitled to return to their job or an equivalent position
without loss of benefits or reduction in pay.

 DEFINITIONS
 Serious Health Condition.  An illness, injury, impairment, physical or mental condition involving
inpatient care in a hospital, hospice or residential care facility or continuing treatment by a health
care provider.  Voluntary or cosmetic treatments do not fall in this category, unless inpatient care
is provided.

 Appropriate/Adequate Medical Certification.  Certification from a health care provider which
indicates the date the condition commenced; the probable duration of the condition; appropriate
medical facts concerning the condition; and, an assertion that the employee is unable to perform
his/her own job function or that the employee is needed to care for a sick family member for a
specified amount of time.  If Klamath County disagrees with the medical certification, it may pay
for a second opinion from a health care provider of its own choosing.  If the two medical opinions
differ, the County may pay for a third opinion from a mutually agreeable provider, which will be
binding.  The County may request re-certification as the leave continues, but no more than once
per month.

 Family Member.  For both OFLA and FMLA it is defined as a spouse, parent, child, and foster
child.  For the purpose of OFLA only it extends to a parent-in-law, grandparent, grandchild, same-
gender domestic partner, and in loco parentis.

 Heath Care Providers.  Doctors of medicine and osteopathy, podiatrists, dentists, clinical
psychologists, optometrists, chiropractors, nurse practitioners, midwives, and Christian Science
practitioners.

 PROCEDURE
 Application and Commencement.

♦ A Request for Leave form (KCHR Form #2) must be completed requesting FMLA leave and
should be submitted to the Human Resources Department.  Oregon law requires thirty (30)
days’ notice for parental leave, with exceptions granted for premature birth or unanticipated
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 10/20/2018) – Page 300-10
taking custody.  Applications for FMLA leave, other than parental leave, should be submitted
at least fifteen (15) days before the leave is to commence.  However, if the illness/leave is
unanticipated an oral request confirmed in writing within three (3) working days is acceptable.
Requests for family leave must specify the reason for the medical leave of absence, the
relationship of the employee to the person needing care, the health condition of the family
member necessitating the leave, the date on which the employee first learned of the serious
health condition, the anticipated length of the leave, not to exceed 12 weeks, and the
availability of other family members to provide care, and the reasons why other family
members are not available.

♦ If an employee fails to give notice, under Oregon law, Klamath County may reduce the period
of family leave by up to three weeks in any one-year leave period.  Federal regulations prohibit
reducing the period of leave under the FMLA, but allows the employer to delay the start of
leave due to improper notice.

♦ If an employee is absent for more than 3 consecutive days for an OFLA or FMLA qualified
reason and does not provide the appropriate/adequate medical certification, Klamath County
may begin counting that time against the employee’s OFLA/FMLA leave.

♦ Written verification from the treating physician to substantiate the need for leave will be
required as allowed by law.  When the leave is to care for a sick child, parent or spouse, the
requesting employee must submit a Certification of Health Care Provider form (currently the
U.S. Department of Labor form), signed by a physician that states:  (a) the date the illness or
condition began;  (b) the probable duration of the condition; (c) the estimated time the
employee will need to care for the family member; and, (d) a statement that the illness or
condition requires the participation of a family member.  Failure to provide a medical
certification may result in the denial of leave.  A return to work certification may also be
required.

♦ When the leave is for planned medical treatment, the employee must attempt, where
possible, to schedule the treatment so as not to disrupt County operations.

♦ Employees will be notified in writing whether a leave request has been approved.

♦ Military family leave, family and medical leave, parental leave and pregnancy leave are
without pay.  Employees will be required to use all accrued paid leave as provided by law.
Employees on leave will not accrue paid leave or benefits other than those required by law.
Klamath County will continue the group health insurance for employees on leave under the
federal or state Family Medical Leave Act for up to 12 weeks.  These employees must
continue to pay their share, if applicable, of the insurance premiums.

♦ Employees on unpaid leave are responsible for paying their portion, if applicable, of their
health insurance premiums by payroll deduction.  The employee shall contact the Payroll
Manager to obtain the amount due.  Premiums should be paid directly to Klamath County.  If
upon return from a leave the employee did not pay the required premiums, Klamath County
may deduct the amount from the employee’s future paychecks.

♦ Upon return from a leave provided by the Family and Medical Leave Acts, Klamath County will
restore equivalent benefits to the returning employee.   Equivalent benefits are those benefits
made available to active employees, including, for example, group health insurance, group life
insurance, sick leave, vacation leave, and pensions.  There will be no need to “re-qualify” or
serve a benefit waiting period for benefits.

♦ Employees who desire more than 12 weeks of leave within the applicable time periods, or
who do not qualify for family or medical leave under state or federal law, may apply for a leave
without pay according to Klamath County’s leave without pay policy.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 10/20/2018) – Page 300-11
♦ Reinstatement

• Employees who return to work from FMLA leave within or on the business day following
the expiration of the twelve (12) weeks are entitled to return to their job or an equivalent
position without loss of benefits or pay.

• When applicable, appropriate/adequate certification indicating the employee is able to
resume work will be required in order for an employee to return to active status.

• An employee’s failure to return from a leave of absence, or failure to contact his/her
immediate supervisor or the Director of Human Resources on the scheduled date of
return, will be considered a voluntary resignation.

316. EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (EAP)

 PURPOSE
 To provide employees and their families with access and referral to counseling services.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to all regular Klamath County employees.

 POLICY
 The Employee Assistance Program (EAP) is designed to provide County employees and their
families with confidential counseling services.  The program can help with a number of personal
issues.

For information regarding access to experienced, professional EAP services, contact the EAP
provider directly or the Human Resources Department.  All contact with the service is confidential
as mandated by the professional ethics and applicable laws.

 PROCEDURE
 The Employee Assistance Program (EAP) offers confidential assistance to employees and their
families that experience problems with the abuse of alcohol and other drugs, as well as other
problems which affect the employee’s health and job performance.  Any eligible employee of
Klamath County wishing confidential assistance for any such problem should contact the EAP
directly (also see Policy No. 415).

 Release Time:  Employees may schedule an appointment with the EAP on his/her own time to
maintain his/her privacy.

 All self-referral contacts are held in confidence by EAP representatives unless the employee
requests, through specific written release of information, that the department, supervisor, union or
other parties be notified.  If the problem involves danger to the employee or to the public, or
increased liability for the County because of the nature of the employee’s job duties, the EAP may
work with Human Resources and the supervisor to identify a reasonable job modification.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 10/20/2018) – Page 300-12
Supervisory Referrals:  A supervisor who observes a continuing decline in job performance or
attendance is encouraged to refer the employee to the EAP when usual supervisory actions have
failed to yield improvement.  If the employee refuses to accept the referral, the supervisor should
document this.  To make a supervisory referral:

•  The supervisor documents the job performance or attendance problems of the
employee, as well as any supervisory actions attempted to resolve the problems.

•  The supervisor discusses these job performance observations with the employee and
requests that he/she meet with the EAP.

•  The supervisor contacts the EAP and/or Director of Human Resources and describes
the job performance problems.  An appointment for the employee is scheduled with the
EAP during working or non-working times.

•  The supervisor refers the employee to the EAP.

After the appointment, the EAP will inform the supervisor and/or Director of Human Resources
whether the employee kept the appointment and whether a referral to a treatment provider has
been made.  The nature of the treatment nor any other personal information will be discussed with
the supervisor or Director of Human Resources unless the employee authorizes a release of
information in writing.

Treatment vs. Dismissal:  In cases where other management methods have failed to improve the
employee’s job performance, the Department Head, with the consent of the employee, has the
option to mandate an employee’s participation in a structured screening and treatment program
as an alternative to dismissal for unacceptable job performance.  Such an agreement will be
clarified in writing between the employee and the County.

Leave Request:  If an employee requires leave for substance abuse treatment or professional
counseling, he/she can follow the established personnel policy or the appropriate labor contract
concerning sick leave use.  If the employee requests that the purpose of the sick leave not be
disclosed to his/her immediate supervisor, a doctor’s medical slip can be processed directly
through Human Resources in the interest of protecting confidentiality.  Approval of time away from
work must be coordinated with the employee’s supervisor or Department Head.

Health Insurance:  Health Insurance will cover substance abuse treatment or professional
counseling services within the terms of the specific insurance policy.  The employee assumes the
financial responsibility for all services which are not covered by insurance.

Confidentiality: In order for an EAP program to be effective, the privacy and confidentiality of
participants must be protected.  Any employee who violates another employee’s confidentiality will
be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including discharge.
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 10/20/2018) – Page 300-13
317. EDUCATION COMPLETION PROGRAM

 PURPOSE
 To help employees obtain additional education or training directly related to their present job and
to prepare for possible advancement within the County.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to regular employees of Klamath County.

 POLICY
 Eligibility for Education Completion Leave will depend upon all relevant circumstances including
length and suitability of performance, prior leaves, attendance records, employee evaluations and
the operating needs of the department.

♦ After completing five (5) years of continuous service, a full-time employee, upon written
request, may be granted a leave of absence without pay by the Board of Commissioners for
the purpose of upgrading his/her professional ability through enrollment in educational
courses directly related to employment at an accredited school or course of study.  The period
of such leave of absence shall not exceed one year, but may be renewed or extended upon
request of the employee and approval of his/her Department Head for up to one (1) additional
year.  One year leaves of absence with requested extensions for educational purposes may
not be provided more than once in any three (3) year period.  Service credit shall be
accumulated for not more than one (1) year for employees on authorized educational leave.
There shall be no accrual of vacation and sick leave benefits during an educational leave.

♦ Reinstatement

• Upon return from an Educational leave of absence, employees will be reinstated in the
following priority of position reassignment:

First: The prior position, if available.

Next: A comparable position, within the department, for which the employee is qualified,
if available.

Next: A lesser position, within the department, for which the employee is qualified.

• If no work is available according to the reassignment priorities listed above, the employee
will be separated.

• An employee’s failure to return from leave of absence, or failure to contact his/her
supervisor on the scheduled date of return, will be considered a voluntary resignation.

• Employees may also be granted time off with pay, meals, lodging and mileage in
accordance with existing County policy, for educational purposes for reasonable lengths
of time to attend conferences, seminars, briefing sessions, training programs and other
programs of a similar nature that are intended to improve or upgrade the employee’s skill
and professional ability, when ordered by the Department Head.

• Records of educational programs completed by each employee will be maintained by the
Human Resources Department in the employee’s personnel file.

PROCEDURE
♦ An employee must submit a written request for educational leave to his/her immediate
supervisor who will request initial approval from the Department Head.  This approved form
and enrollment information must then be forwarded to Human Resources for review and then
to the Board of Commissioners for final approval.  Upon approval, the employee can enroll.
♦ The supervisor should retain a copy of the employee’s request for educational leave until the
employee has completed or otherwise ended the course.
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 10/20/2018) – Page 300-14
318. BENEFIT & INSURANCE PROGRAMS (Amended Effective 12-13-2016)

 PURPOSE
 To summarize group insurance and other insurance programs the County offers.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to all Elected Officials and benefit eligible employees of Klamath County,
except those otherwise covered by collective bargaining agreements.

 POLICY
The County provides a comprehensive group health program for Elected Officials, regular full-time
and half-time employees.  The County also provides life insurance coverage for each eligible
employee.  Full details can be found in the summary plan description booklets, which are available
to all eligible employees on the County’s website or by contacting the Klamath County Human
Resources Department.  In regard to health insurance, the County will not duplicate premiums
paid in the event an employee and his/her spouse are both employed and eligible for health
coverage.  In such event, monthly payments shall be paid only on behalf of one eligible employee,
the other employee being designated as a dependent for health insurance.    Married couples will
have two options available:  1) combine their medical contribution amount to pay for their health
insurance premium or 2) the primary employee shall bear the entire plan cost, if any, and the
designated dependent spouse will be eligible for HRA/VEBA under the opt-out provision.  Elected
Officials working at least 20 hours per week will receive the full monthly County medical
contribution amount as non-union employees, unless they opt-out.

Health Reimbursement Arrangement/Voluntary Employees’ Beneficiary Associate
(HRA/VEBA).  Klamath County has adopted the HRA VEBA Medical Expense Plan (“Plan”).  The
County shall contribute to the Plan on behalf of all non-represented employees (“Group”) defined
as eligible to participate in the Plan.  HRA/VEBA plans provide a tax-free defined contribution
account for employees to pay for medical, dental, vision and tax qualified long-term care
premiums and non-covered healthcare expenses pursuant to Internal Revenue Code (IRC) 213D.
The plan does not require a vesting period and HRA/VEBA funds may be used at any time for a
qualified expense after the employee’s plan account has been established.  Each eligible
employee must submit a completed and signed Enrollment Form.  An employee is eligible for an
HRA/VEBA if one of the following applies:

1. If the employers’ contribution exceeds the cost of the employee’s medical plan,
the difference between the cost of the plan and the employer’s contribution will be paid
into a benefit eligible employee’s HRA/VEBA account.

2. Benefit eligible employees that have opted-out of the County’s insurance plan and
have provided proof of coverage under another group health insurance plan (some plans
do not qualify, like Medicare and Tricare) shall receive a flat monthly amount into the
eligible employee’s HRA/VEBA account.  The amount shall be established by the County
during the open enrollment period and at no point will exceed 50% of the cost of the High
Deductible Health Plan.

3. If an employee opts-out and their other health insurance does not qualify as a
group health insurance plan, they will still receive the flat monthly amount.  The funds will
be placed in a post-separation account.  This account cannot be accessed until the
employee leaves County employment.

 The following are brief summaries of these programs; contact the Human Resources Department
for more information.

Life Insurance.  The County provides life insurance coverage to all Elected Officials and benefit
eligible employees, effective the first of the month following thirty (30) days of employment.  The
County will pay the cost of the life insurance coverage, which will be provided in the amount
determined by the County.  When an employee is on an authorized paid leave of absence, life
insurance benefits shall continue to accrue.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 10/20/2018) – Page 300-15
Supplemental (Buy-up) Life Insurance.  Supplemental life insurance is available to all Elected
Officials and benefit eligible employees.  Employees may be required to complete a medical
history form by the insurer.  If the additional life insurance is approved, the cost will be paid by the
employee through a payroll deduction.

Health Insurance.  Elected Officials and benefit eligible employees can participate in the County’s
health insurance program, effective the first of the month following thirty (30) days of employment.
If an employee terminates his/her employment with the County and has worked at least one day in
in that month, their health insurance coverage will continue through the remainder of the month in
which they terminated.

♦ CONSOLIDATED OMNIBUS BUDGET RECONCILIATION ACT OF 1985 (COBRA).  COBRA
requires employers to allow continuation of group medical coverage to employees and their
dependents when group coverage ends because of a “qualifying event”.  Coverage is
continued as follows:

• 18 months of continued coverage - in the event of termination or reduction in hours

• 36 months of continued coverage - in the event of the employee’s death, divorce, legal
separation or spouse’s entitlement to Medicare

• For children in the event that coverage ends because they no longer qualify as a legal
dependent.

Specific questions regarding COBRA accounts should be directed to the Klamath County Human
Resources Department.

Social Security.  All employees are covered by the Federal Social Security Act.  A required
percentage of an employee’s salary is deducted to pay the employee’s portion of this protection
and the County matches this deduction dollar for dollar.  This plan was designed for an
employee’s future security and that of his/her dependents by providing retirement, disability, death
survivor and Medicare benefits.

State Unemployment Insurance.  Klamath County is self-insured for unemployment insurance.
The program provides weekly benefits to eligible employees as set forth by law.  All
unemployment information should be immediately forwarded to Human Resources for timely
processing.

Workers’ Compensation.  The County is currently insured for coverage of the cost of work-
related injury or illness.  Benefits help pay for an employee’s medical treatment and for part of the
income lost while recovering.  Specific benefits are prescribed by law depending on the
circumstances in each case.  To be assured of maximum coverage, all work-related accidents or
illnesses must be reported immediately to supervisors and the Human Resources Department so
the County can take the necessary steps in processing a timely claim.  (See Policy No. 711
regarding benefits).

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 10/20/2018) – Page 300-16
319. PENSION (RETIREMENT) PLAN

 PURPOSE
 To help eligible employees with their retirement income.

 SCOPE
 All regular full-time and half-time employees of Klamath County, except those excluded by laws or
regulations or the terms of a collective bargaining agreement.

 POLICY
 Klamath County has established a retirement plan to help employees with their retirement income.
Monthly contributions, both employer and employee, are made into the Pension Plan Trust.
Contributions begin for each eligible employee on the first of the month after their date of hire.  A
summary plan description can be obtained from the Human Resources Department.  Any
questions relating to the Pension Plan should be directed to the Human Resources Department.

 Eligible law enforcement personnel, as outlined in Oregon Revised Statues, are covered by the
Public Employees Retirement System (PERS).  Information regarding this coverage is available
through Human Resources.

320. DEFERRED COMPENSATION

 PURPOSE
 To help eligible employees supplement their retirement income.

 SCOPE
 All regular full-time, half-time, and part-time employees of Klamath County.

 POLICY
 The County currently has established three (3) options for deferred compensation for employees.
These plans are offered through the Hartford Life Insurance Company, Nationwide Retirement
Solutions, and the Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company (VALIC).  Eligible employees can opt
to begin participation in deferred compensation on the 1st of the month following their date of hire.
While these plans have important savings and tax advantages, other aspects of the plans will
require special consideration.  Employees are encouraged to read all information provided and, if
possible, talk with a qualified representative from the plan(s).

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 10/20/2018) – Page 300-17
321. DONATION OF VACATION AND/OR SICK TIME

 PURPOSE
 To help eligible employees with additional paid leave through employee donations.

 SCOPE
 All regular full-time and half-time employees of Klamath County.

 POLICY & PROCEDURE
 Employees may, with the approval of their Department Head and the Director of Human
Resources, donate up to a combined maximum of 40 vacation and sick hours (on an hour-for-
hour basis) per calendar year to other eligible Klamath County employees in need of paid leave
time.

Normally, this occurs as a result of serious illness or injury of an  employee causing them to
exhaust all of his/her benefit time and other employees in the same workgroup wish to donate
some time to provide financial assistance.  A serious illness or injury normally requires daily or
continuing treatment as certified by a health care provider. A serious illness does not include
pregnancy, birth or an adoption.

The following limitations apply to donation:

• Donated time must be earned, banked vacation or sick time.  No other benefit time may be
donated.

• An employee may donate a combined maximum of 40 vacation and sick hours per calendar
year; however, the amount donated at any one time may not reduce the employee's vacation
or sick bank by 50% or more.

• Once the time is donated to a receiving employee they are only available for use by that
employee.  At no time will the unused donated hours revert back to a donating employee.

• The donated time does not have any cash-out value should the employee receiving the
donation end their employment with Klamath County prior to their use of all donated time.

• Employees that have exhausted their leave banks shall not solicit other employees for time
donations.

Requests for donation should be submitted to the Department Head in writing and, if approved,
then forwarded to the Director of Human Resources for review.  Final approval of the donation will
be made by the Board of County Commissioners.  The decision of the Board shall be binding.

322. LONGEVITY PAY

 PURPOSE
 Reward eligible employees for their years of service with Klamath County

 SCOPE
 All regular full-time and half-time employees of Klamath County.

 POLICY & PROCEDURE
 Commencing on an employee’s anniversary date employees that are eligible for longevity pay will
receive an additional benefit as indicated on the following schedule:

15 years of service - One (1) additional floating holiday

20 years of service – 2% on base pay

25 years of service – 4% on base pay

30 years of service – 6% on base pay

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 10/20/2018) – Page 300-18
323. PROFESSIONAL LICENSURE BOARD COMPLAINTS (Adopted 09/2017)

PURPOSE
This policy sets forth the County’s position as it relates to representing certain employees in
complaints, investigations or other actions involving the boards or other entities regulating the
licensure or certification, however designated, of those employees to engage in professional  or
regulated activities when such complaints, investigations or other actions arise out of the course
and scope of those employees working for the County.

SCOPE
This policy applies to all employees of Klamath County who are required to hold a professional
license or certification, however designated, to perform the essential functions of their positions
with the County.

POLICY
Certain positions  within the management and confidential service of the County  require
professional licensure or certification, however designated, to engage in the essential  functions
required of those positions. For example, an attorney employed by the County is required to be
licensed by the Oregon State Bar. An employee may be subject to a complaint filed with the
board or other entity regulating the professional conduct of that employee for conduct which
may have arose in the course and scope of employment with the County. As part of the
compensation employees of the County receive for their employment with the County, the
County may, at its sole discretion and determination and pursuant to the terms of this policy,
defend and represent an employee in regards to an investigation, complaint or other actions
involving the board or other entity regulating the professional conduct of that employee if the
conduct under investigation, or that is the subject of the complaint or other action, arose in the
course and scope of the employee’s employment with the County.

PROCEDURE
A complaint, investigation or other actions relating to alleged or reported professional
misconduct by a professional board regarding an employee of the County who is licensed or
certified, however designated, is first a matter of concern to the employee involved in receiving
such a complaint and is also a matter of concern to the County. The purpose of this policy is  to
assist employees in determining the proper course of action in responding to a complaint  made
to or an investigation by the professional board against the employee. This policy addresses
the County’s procedure in regards to such circumstances.

1. When allegations of professional misconduct involving an employee are made orally or  in
writing to the employee, but the professional board regulating that employee has not yet
been notified, the employee should notify his or her  supervisor before responding. If the
allegations are made in writing, the employee should provide a copy of the written
communication to her or his supervisor. The supervisor should immediately notify the
Human Resources/Risk Management Office (HR/Risk).

2. If the professional board has been notified and the professional board has directed an
inquiry or investigatory letter, however designated, to the employee requesting a response
to a complaint of professional misconduct, the employee should provide a copy of the
inquiry or investigatory letter to her or his  supervisor. Employees may request legal
representation provided by the County. If an employee requests legal representation by the
County, the employee shall submit a written request for representation to their
supervisor and a copy of the employee’s proposed response to the professional board’s
inquiry or investigatory letter.

3. The employee’s supervisor shall submit a memorandum to County Counsel and HR/Risk
addressing:
A. Whether the supervisor recommends approval of the employee’s request  for County
legal representation;
B. Whether the supervisor recommends filing an institutional response in support  of the
employee in addition to the employee’s individual response; and
C. If an institutional response is recommended, what the substance of  the institutional
response should be.
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 10/20/2018) – Page 300-19
4. The supervisor shall provide the employee with a copy of the memorandum.

5. HR/Risk shall review the memorandum and consult with County Counsel concerning the
employee request and the supervisor memorandum.

6. The HR Director will determine whether or not to approve the employee’s request for
representation. In determining whether or not to approve the employee’s request, the
HR Director shall consider whether the conduct of the employee arose within the course
and scope of the employee’s position with the County and whether or not the conduct
of the employee violated any County policy.

7. If the HR Director  approves of the employee’s request for representation, County
Counsel, will determine, within budget constraints, whether to represent the employee
involved in the complaint of professional misconduct,  to include other actions, or to hire
outside counsel. County Counsel, in consultation with the HR Director, will also determine
whether a separate institutional response in support of the employee is warranted in
addition to the employee’s individual response and, if so, what form it will take.

8. The HR Director  may, after initially making the determination as to whether or not to
approve the employee’s request for representation and upon the receipt  and consideration
of additional information, reconsider the determination.

Effect of Changes to Laws Applicable to this Policy

This policy, and the procedures adopted to implement this policy, is intended to comply with any and all
applicable laws at the time of the adoption of this policy.  If applicable laws change, and this policy has
not been amended to reflect the impact of such changes, the County shall amend its procedures and
the application of this policy to reflect the current state of the law, even if an amendment to this policy
to reflect those changes has not been formally adopted by the County
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 400-1
400. STANDARDS OF CONDUCT AND CORRECTIVE ACTION

409. CODE OF CONDUCT AND WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION (Amended Effective 12-13-2016)
PURPOSE
 To provide guidance on proper work code of conduct and reporting procedures should an employee,
elected official, contractor, volunteer or member of the public become aware of improper government
action in accordance with Oregon Revised Statute (ORS) 659A.200 to 659A.224.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to all Klamath County employees, Elected Officials, contractors, and authorized
volunteer positions.

 POLICY
To create a work environment that supports honesty, integrity, respect and trust in the treatment of every
employee, officials, contractors, and members of the public.  Harassment or discrimination of any kind is
unacceptable in the workplace and will not be tolerated.  Reports of improper governmental conduct are fairly
and timely investigated and appropriate action taken.  Reporting individuals will be free from retaliation and
shall be provided confidentiality to the extent possible.

Code of Conduct
We will provide a work environment that supports honesty, integrity, respect and trust in the treatment of
every employee, officials, contractors, and members of the public.  Harassment or discrimination of any kind
is unacceptable in the workplace and will not be tolerated.

We are also committed to providing a safe, healthy, drug-free work environment.  Klamath County
employees have an obligation to comply with health, safety and environmental regulations. You should report
any accident or injury sustained on the job immediately, and feel free to discuss any environmental or safety
concerns with a staff member of the Human Resources department.

Ethical Conduct and Compliance
In the performance of our duties, County employees are expected to conduct business in compliance with
the highest levels of citizenship, consistent with our fiduciary obligations to the public.

Business and Financial Information

Accuracy, Retention and Disposal of Documents and Records
You are responsible for the integrity and accuracy of any documents or records that are created on behalf
of Klamath County.  Falsifying or altering documents or records is absolutely prohibited.

You are also expected to become familiar with and comply with County policies and statutes that address
the retention and disposal of documents and records.

Financial Reporting and Records
In order to provide accurate, reliable financial records, all financial transactions shall be recorded promptly
and according to generally accepted accounting principles and Klamath County policies and procedures. We
have implemented internal controls to provide reasonable assurance that management has authorized a
transaction and that it has been recorded properly.

Workplace Conduct

Treatment of Others
Klamath County prohibits all forms of discrimination, including harassment of any kind. Employees of
Klamath County shall be treated with dignity and respect, regardless of their age, gender, race, ethnicity,
national origin, religion, sexual orientation, disability, or any other basis proscribed by law.

You are expected to treat all County employees and the general public with respect.  Klamath County
promotes a culture that allows employees to work without fear of retaliation.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 400-2
Conflict of Interest
A conflict of interest occurs when personal interests could interfere with your ability to make a fair,
objective decision on behalf of Klamath County.  You should avoid relationships and activities that
create, or even appear to create, a conflict of interest.  If you are unsure whether a conflict of interest
exists, you should talk with the person to whom you report or the Human Resources Director.

Klamath County employees may not take bribes from or give kickbacks to contractors, subcontractors,
consultants, vendors, suppliers or competitors. Klamath County employees are expected to report any offers
of bribes or kickbacks to the Human Resources Director.

Personal Use of Klamath County Resources
You must not remove property from any department owned or managed by Klamath County without proper
authorization.  If removed, property must be returned to the facility as soon as it is no longer needed for
authorized purposes.

Reporting Obligation and Resources

Personal Obligation to Report
As a county employee you are responsible to report activity that appears to violate applicable laws, rules,
or regulations of this Code of Conduct.  If you report a concern but believe that it has not been resolved,
contact the Human Resources department.

Resources for Guidance
We encourage you to discuss concerns with your department head.   If you are uncomfortable doing so,
you can discuss the situation with the Human Resources department.

We cannot guarantee to keep your identity confidential if you report a concern or possible misconduct, but
we will maintain confidentiality within the limits of the law and our ability to investigate the issues you have
brought to our attention.  Klamath County absolutely prohibits, and will not tolerate, retaliatory discipline
against a worker who reports a concern.  Claims of retaliation will be investigated, and appropriate action
will be taken.

Reporting of Improper Governmental Conduct and Whistleblower Protections

 Reporting and Investigating
♦ Klamath County encourages any employee with knowledge of, or concern of, an illegal or
dishonest fraudulent activity to first report it to their supervisor or department head.
Where the reporting employee reasonably believes that the improper governmental
conduct involves the supervisor or there may not be a fair and impartial investigation or
there could be retaliation for reporting, the reporting employee shall report the alleged
improper governmental conducted to the Human Resources Director or any other
supervisor or department head. The employee may also provide the information to
another state or federal regulatory agency, a law enforcement agency or an attorney
licensed to practice law in Oregon if a confidential communication is made in connection
with the alleged violation.  Attorneys employed by the County may report violations of law
to the Attorney General, subject to rules of professional conduct.
♦ Any official, contractor or member of the public who reasonably believes that they have
evidence of improper governmental conduct may report it to the Klamath County Human
Resources Director or their designee.  All reports of improper governmental conduct
received from officials, contractors, or members of the public shall be processed and
investigated.
♦ All such issues and claims of improper governmental conduct will be investigated in a
timely manner to determine fault and institute any appropriate corrective measures.
Some examples of illegal or dishonest activities are violations of federal, state, or local
laws; billing for services not performed or for goods not delivered; and other fraudulent
financial reporting.  For an employee wishing more information, further details can be
obtained from the Human Resources Director or by reviewing ORS 659A200 to 659A.224.
♦ The employee must exercise sound judgement to avoid baseless allegations.  An
employee who intentionally files a false report of wrongdoing may be subject to corrective
action up to and including termination.
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 400-3
♦ Whistleblower protections are provided to maintain confidentiality and to prevent
retaliation.  While identity may have to be disclosed to conduct a thorough investigation, to
comply with the law, and to provide accused individuals their due course, the privacy of
the individual making the report will be protected as much as possible.  The County will
not retaliate against a whistleblower.  This includes, but is not limited to, protection from
retaliation in the form of an adverse employment action such as termination,
compensation decreases, or poor work assignments and threats of physical harm.  Any
whistleblower who believes they are being retaliated against must contact the Human
Resources Director or designee immediately.  The right of a whistleblower for protection
against retaliation does not include immunity for any personal wrongdoing that is alleged
and investigate.
♦ All reports of illegal and dishonest activities will be promptly submitted to the Human
Resources Director or designee who is responsible for investigation and coordinating
correction action.
♦ The County supervisor, department head or official receiving the report of improper
governmental conduct shall be responsible for reporting the matter to the Human
Resources Director or their designee.  The Human Resources Director in consultation
with legal counsel shall be responsible for determining the manner in which the
allegations will be investigated.  The Human Resources Director may investigate the
allegations; they may assign it to a subordinate employee in Human Resources; request
that the investigation be conducted by the receiving employee’s supervisor or department
head; request the investigation be conducted by another office, agency, or department in
the County; or hire a third party investigator.
♦ If when investigating the matter it is determined that fraud or a criminal activity may be
occurring or may have occurred, Human Resources shall notify the appropriate law
enforcement agency of the potential fraud or other criminal activity.
♦ If when investigating the matter it is determined that a violation of ORS Chapter 244 may
be occurring or may have occurred, the Human Resources Director or their designee
shall notify the Oregon Government Ethics Commission of the potential violation.

 Protection Against Retaliation/Confidentiality
♦ County officials and employees are prohibited from retaliating, including the imposition of
disciplinary action, against a member of the public or any county employee because he or
she has, in good faith, reported improper governmental conduct.  However, employees
may be subject to discipline if the information disclosed by the employee is known by the
employee to be false, if the employee discloses the information with reckless disregard for
its truth or falsity, or if the information disclosed relates to the employee’s own violation,
mismanagement, gross waste of funds, abuse of authority or endangerment of the public
health or safety.
♦ An employee who believes he or she has been retaliated against for reporting improper
governmental conduct should advise the appropriate manager.  A County employee that
has been found to have retaliated against an employee for reporting, in good faith,
improper governmental conduct shall be subject to discipline.
♦ Notwithstanding the above, any employee who believes he or she has been retaliated
against for reporting of improper government conduct may bring a civil action as provided
by ORS 659A.215.
♦ The names of the employees or other individuals reporting allegations of improper
governmental conduct shall be kept confidential unless waived by the subject employee
or reporting individual.  The County or their designated investigator shall take reasonable
step to maintain confidentiality of the reporting employee.

 Whistleblower Protection (ORS 659A.200 and 659A.203)
♦ No employee of the County shall be prohibited from discussing, in response to an official
request, either specifically or generally with any member of the Legislative Assembly,
legislative committee staff acting under direction of a member of the Legislative
Assembly, any member of the elected governing body of a political subdivision of the state
or any elected auditor of a city, county or metropolitan service district, the activities of:
o The state or any agency or political subdivision in the state; or
o Any person authorized to act on behalf of the state or any agency or political
subdivision in the state.
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 400-4
♦ No employee of the County shall be disciplined or threatened with discipline for disclosing
any information that the employee reasonably believes is evidence of:
o A violation of any federal or state law, rule or regulation by the state, agency or
political subdivision;
o Mismanagement, gross waste of funds or abuse of authority or substantial and
specific danger to public health and safety resulting from action of the state, agency
or political subdivision; or
o Subject to ORS 659A.212(2), the fact that a person receiving services, benefits or
assistance from the State or agency or subdivision, is subject to a felony or
misdemeanor or warrant for arrest issued by the State of Oregon, any other state, the
federal government, or any territory, commonwealth governmental instrumentality of
the United States.
♦ No employee of the County shall be required to give notice prior to making any disclosure
of the above violations.
♦ No employee of the County shall be discouraged, restrained, dissuaded, coerced,
prevented or otherwise interfered with when making disclosures or engaging in the
discussions of matters surrounding violations.
♦ An employee’s good faith and objectively reasonable belief of a violation of federal, state
or local law, rule or regulation by the employer shall be an affirmative defense to a civil or
criminal charge related to the disclosure by the employee of lawfully accessed information
related to the violation, including information that is exempt from disclosure as provided in
ORS 192.501 to 192.505 or by County policy, if the information is provided to:
o A state or federal regulatory agency;
o A law enforcement agency;
o A manager employed by the County;
o An attorney licensed to practice law in the State of Oregon if a confidential
communication is made in connection with the alleged violation and in furtherance of
the rendition of legal services to the employee that are subject to ORS 40.225.
♦ An employee many not assert the affirmative defense described above if the information:
o Is disclosed or re-disclosed by the employee or at the employee’s direction to a party
other than the parties list above;
o Is stated in a commercial exclusive negotiating agreement with the County, provided
that the agreement is not related to the employee’s employment with the County;
o Is stated in a commercial nondisclosure agreement with the County, provided that the
agreement is not related to the employee’s employment with the County.
♦ The affirmative defense described above is available to an employee who discloses
information related to an alleged violation by a coworker or supervisor if the disclosure is
related to the course and scope of employment of the coworker or supervisor.
♦ The affirmative defense described above may not be asserted by an employee who is an
attorney or by an employee who is not an attorney but who is employed, retained,
supervised or directed by an attorney if the information is disclosed and is related to the
representation of a client.   This disclosure is subject to the rules of professional conduct
established pursuant to ORS 9.490.
♦ Subject to the rules of professional conduct established by ORS 9.490 a public employee
who is an attorney may report to the Attorney General the employee’s knowledge of a
violation of federal, state or local law, rules or regulation by the County.
♦ Disclosure of this information does not waive the attorney-client privilege or affect the
applicability of any exemption from disclosure of a public record under ORS 192.501 to
192.505.
♦ Notwithstanding the permitted disclosure to the agencies listed above, information
protected from disclosure under federal law including but not limited to the federal Health
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (P.L. 104-191), may be disclosed on
in accordance with federal law.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 400-5

ATTESTATION

I acknowledge that I have received, read and understand the Klamath County Code of Conduct and
Whistleblower Protection policy and I agree to act in full compliance with the principles and policies stated
therein.  I also understand that compliance with those ethical standards is a condition of my continued
employment with Klamath County.

I will report any potential violation of which I become aware promptly to the Klamath County Human
Resources director. I understand that any violation of the Code of Conduct and Whistleblower Protection
policy, or any policy, procedure or law is grounds for disciplinary action, up to and including discharge from
employment.

____________________________
Date Signed

_____________________________  __________________________________
Name (Printed)     Signature

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 400-6
410. STANDARDS OF CONDUCT (Amended Effective 02-25-2014)

PURPOSE
 To assure safe, efficient, and harmonious operations and to fully inform all employees of their
responsibilities in this regard.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to all Klamath County employees.

 POLICY
 The following represents only a partial list of unacceptable behaviors and conduct, as a complete
list of all possible violations would be impossible to write.  Conduct violations may lead to
corrective action up to and including discharge.

• Falsifying employment application, timesheet, personnel, or other County documents or
records.
• Unauthorized possession of County or employee property, gambling, carrying firearms or
explosives, or violating criminal laws on County premises.
• Fighting, throwing things, horseplay, practical jokes or other disorderly conduct which may
endanger the well-being of any employee or County operations.
• Engaging in acts of dishonesty, fraud, theft or sabotage.
• Threatening, intimidating, coercing, using abusive or vulgar language, or interfering with the
performance of other employees.
• Insubordination or refusal to comply with instructions or failure to perform reasonable duties
which are assigned.
• Unauthorized use of County material, equipment or property.
• Damaging or destroying County property through careless or willful acts.
• Performance which, in the County’s opinion, does not meet the requirements of the position.
• Engaging in such other practices as the County determines may be inconsistent with the
ordinary and reasonable rules of conduct necessary to the welfare of the County, its
employees or customers.
• Negligence in observing, or refusal to observe, fire prevention and safety rules.
• Discourteous or unprofessional treatment of the public or other employees.
• Conducting personal business during working hours.
• Inexcusable neglect of duty.
• Being under the influence of alcohol and/or drunkenness while on duty; or, under the influence
and/or sale of any illegal drugs while on duty.
• Conviction of a felony or conviction of a misdemeanor which is of such a nature as to
adversely affect the employee’s ability to perform the duties and responsibilities of his/her
position.  A plea of guilty, or a conviction following a plea of nolo contendere is deemed to be
a conviction within the meaning of this section.
• Failure to possess or keep in effect any license, certificate or other similar requirement
specified in the employee’s class specification and/or job description.
• Excessive absenteeism or tardiness.
• Smoking in unauthorized areas.
• Abandonment - unauthorized absence from the job.
• Failure to cooperate fully during an investigation.
• Retaliation against individuals or employees who bring forth a complaint.
• Other circumstance for which the County feels that corrective action is warranted.
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 400-7
411. CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (Amended Effective 12-13-2016)

 PURPOSE
 To protect the integrity of County information, services and employee efforts.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to all Klamath County employees.

 POLICY
 Employees are expected to devote their best efforts to the interests of the County and the conduct
of its affairs.  The County recognizes the right of employees to engage in activities outside of their
employment which are of a private nature and unrelated to our business.  However, a policy of full
disclosure will be followed to assess and prevent potential conflicts of interest from arising.

 PROCEDURE
♦ While describing all the circumstances and conditions which might develop is impossible, the
following is set forth to guide employees:

• Employees have an obligation to their employment with the County and may not engage
in any outside professional work without full disclosure to, and approval from their
Department Head; nor will any employee engage in any activity of a nature that is in some
way hostile or adverse to the County.

• No employee shall solicit or receive gifts as outlined in ORS 244.010 – 244.047.

• Any questions regarding a possible conflict of interest should be discussed with the
immediate supervisor or the Director of Human Resources.

• Failure to disclose or discuss information related to any of the above points may lead to
corrective action up to and including discharge.

• Employees may serve on internal or external Committees as long as no real or perceived
conflict of interest exists, as determined by Klamath County.  Generally, employees are
limited to membership on a maximum of one (1) committee at a time.

412. HARASSMENT
(Amended Effective 12-13-2016)

PURPOSE
 To establish the County’s position on the subject of harassment, to set forth guidelines for
handling violations of the policy and to specify the related complaint-handling procedure.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to all Klamath County employees.  Furthermore, Department Heads will follow
established procedures to insure that non-employees (vendors, contractors, trades people, etc.)
on County premises are also made aware of the intent of this policy.

 POLICY
 Klamath County is committed to fair and impartial treatment of employees, job applicants,
customers, vendors, contractors and agents.  In accordance with this commitment, Klamath
County will maintain a discrimination and harassment-free work environment where people treat
one another with respect.  This means that Klamath County absolutely prohibits any form of
discrimination, harassment, intimidation or insult based on race, color, religion, sex, age,
handicap, national origin, marital status, mental or physical disability, Family and Medical Leave,
protected veteran status, genetic information or testing, sexual orientation, gender identity,  or any
other status or characteristic protected by law or policy and prohibits retaliation against individuals
who bring forth any compliant, orally or in writing, against any individuals who assist or participate
in the investigation of any complaint, or otherwise oppose discrimination.  Harassment, including
sexual harassment, is contrary to basic standards of conduct between individuals and is
prohibited by Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and state regulations.  It is the
responsibility of all employees and agents of Klamath County to create and maintain a work
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 400-8
environment free of discrimination or harassment.  In other words, all employees and agents of
Klamath County are responsible to respect the rights of co-workers and the public.  In addition,
each of Klamath County supervisors and managers has the responsibility for monitoring and
maintaining a discrimination and harassment-free work environment.  This will be accomplished
by modeling professional behavior, by appropriate supervision of employees in the work unit, and
by reporting potential or actual harassment complaints to the Director of Human Resources so
that corrective action can be taken.  It will, therefore, constitute a violation of County policy for any
employee to engage in any of the acts or behavior defined below and such misconduct will subject
an employee to corrective action up to and including immediate discharge.  Employees who feel
they have been discriminated against on the basis of sex or any other status protected by law or
policy, or sexually or in any other manner harassed, should immediately report such incidents
following the procedure described below without fear of reprisal.  Confidentiality will be maintained
to the extent permitted by the circumstances.

 DEFINITIONS
Harassment:  Klamath County defines harassment as any unwelcome verbal, physical or visual
conduct based on race, color, religion, sex, age, handicap, national origin, marital status, mental
or physical disability, genetic information or any other status protected by law or policy, when that
conduct is made explicitly or implicitly a term or condition of employment is used as a basis for
employment decisions, or has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with performance
or creating an intimidating, offensive or hostile work environment.  Verbal, physical or visual
conduct of a racial, ethnic or other type which, in the employee’s opinion, impairs his or her ability
to perform the job.

Examples of discrimination and harassment include, but are not limited to:

1. Physical conduct:  Unwelcome touching; standing too close; leering, staring or
glaring; obscene, threatening or offensive gestures.

2. Oral or written conduct:  References to private body parts; derogatory or
demeaning comments, jokes or nicknames; personal question about an
individual’s sexual or religious activity; sexual innuendo; graphic or offensive
remarks about race, gender, religion, age, ethnicity, marital status, unwelcome
pressure for dates; catcalls; whistles; or sexually suggestive sounds.

3. Visual or symbolic conduct:  Display of pictures of nude, scantily clad or
offensively clad people; display of offensive, threatening or demeaning drawings,
cartoons or other graphics; offensive T-shirts, coffee mugs or other articles, or
the use of Klamath County property or facilities to display, promote or degrade
religious symbols, viewpoints, or beliefs.

Work Environment:  Includes areas in and around Klamath County facilities, vehicles and break
locations, and any other areas or conveyances where Klamath County employees work or where
work-related activities occur, including official travel.

Sexual Harassment:  Unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors and other verbal
or physical conduct of a sexual nature when such conduct:

1. Is made explicitly or implicitly a term or condition of employment, or

2. Is used as a basis for employment decisions, or

3. Has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with work performance or
creating an otherwise offensive working environment.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 400-9
Bullying:  Repeated, unreasonable actions of individuals (or a group) directed towards an
individual or a group of employees, which is intended to intimidate and that creates a risk to the
health and safety of the employee(s).  Examples of bullying include:

1. Verbal Bullying – slandering, ridiculing or maligning a person or his/her family;
persistent name calling which is hurtful, insulting or humiliating; using a person as
butt of jokes; abusive and offensive remarks.
2. Physical Bullying – pushing; shoving; kicking; poking; tripping; assault, or threat of
physical assault; damage to a person’s work area or property.
3. Gesture Bullying – non-verbal threatening gestures, glances that can convey
threatening messages.
4. Exclusion Bullying – socially or physically excluding or disregarding a person in
work-related activities.  In some cases, failing to be cooperative and working well
with coworkers may be viewed as bullying.
5. Cyber Bullying – Bullying that takes place using electronic technology, which
includes devices and equipment such as cellular telephones, computers, and
tablets as well as communication tools including social media sites, text
messages, chat, and websites.  Examples of cyberbullying include transmitting or
showing mean-spirited text messages, emails, embarrassing pictures, videos or
graphics, rumors sent by email or posted on social networking sites, or creating
fake profiles on websites for coworkers, managers, supervisors or elected
officials.

Employee: Any employee of the County, including elected officials, managers and supervisors.

 PROCEDURE
 Any employee who believes that the actions or words of another employee may constitute
discrimination or harassment is urged to report that belief within three calendar days, or as soon
as possible thereafter, to a supervisor or manager, Department Head or the Director of Human
Resources.  A supervisor or manager receiving a complaint should immediately notify the Director
of Human Resources.  All reports of possible harassment will be investigated promptly and in an
impartial manner.  Substantiated incidents of harassment shall result in corrective and/or remedial
action being taken and may be cause for disciplinary action.  Complaints will be kept confidential
to the maximum extent practicable.  If it is necessary to make the identity of involved employees
known to others, the employee will be notified in advance.   In all cases the complaining or
reporting employee will be advised of Klamath County’s findings and conclusions.

 In all cases where a finding of discrimination or harassment can be established, Klamath County
will initiate appropriate remedial action to address the issue.  In all cases, the appropriate
corrective action will reflect the severity of the problems, the offending employee’s overall work
record and full consideration of the circumstances surrounding the situation.  When deemed
appropriate, disciplinary action for employees who engage in unlawful discrimination or
harassment may range from a verbal or written warning to suspension, reassignment, demotion or
termination of employment.

Klamath County prohibits retaliation of any kind against employees, who, in good faith, report
harassment and/or discrimination or assist in investigating such complaints.  If an employee feels
he/she has been subjected to any form of retaliation, the employee should report that conduct to a
supervisor or manager, Department Head or Director of Human Resources within three calendar
days of the offense.
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 400-10
413. POLITICAL ACTIVITIES

 PURPOSE
 To identify the parameters within which Klamath County employees must exercise their right to
express their political views or engage in political activities.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to all employees of Klamath County, during work time and while on County
premises. Numbers one (1) and five (5) below do not apply to elected officials.  (See ORS
294.100 for further restrictions.)

 POLICY
1. Klamath County employees are prohibited by law from soliciting money, influence, services or
contributions in any form, or otherwise aiding or promoting any political committee, the
nomination or election of any person to public office, or the passage or defeat of ballot
measures, while on the job during working hours.

2. Klamath County employees are prohibited from using their official position to unlawfully
influence, interfere with, or affect the results of an election.

3. No employee or group of employees, representing themselves as Klamath County
employees, shall endorse or oppose a political advertisement, broadcast, statement or
campaign literature except as allowed by state labor law.  Nothing in this section prohibits a
County employee from personally supporting or opposing any candidate for public office
during off-duty hours.

4. No employee shall display partisan, political buttons, stickers, banners, etc., on
department/County property or vehicles.

5. Klamath County employees are prohibited from campaigning for election to an elected public
office during work hours.

6. Klamath County employees are also prohibited from using County equipment, resources and
materials to aid in such election.

7. Such prohibitions, as listed in this policy, are not intended to restrict the right of County
employees to express their political view or to engage in political activities, except to the
extent prohibited by law when on the job during working hours.

414. SOLICITATION AND DISTRIBUTION

 PURPOSE
 To ensure a productive work environment where employees and business operations may
function without disruption.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to employees and non-employees during work time and while on County
premises.

 POLICY
 The County strives to establish a work environment that is productive and without undue
disruptions to the work day.  Therefore, soliciting by one employee of another, or collecting from
one employee by another, is prohibited while either employee is on work time.  Distributing
literature and circulating petitions during work time or in work areas at any time is also prohibited.
Trespassing, soliciting or distributing literature by anyone, for purposes other than official County
business, is prohibited on County premises.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 400-11
DEFINITIONS
 “ Work time” is all time on the premises other than before and after work, at meal periods and
break times.

 “Work areas” are all areas on the premises other than employee break rooms.

415. ALCOHOL AND DRUG USE
(Amended Effective 12-13-2016)

 PURPOSE
 To establish the County’s policy prohibiting the use, possession, manufacture, sale, purchase,
transfer or being under the influence of alcoholic beverages, illegal drugs or other intoxicants at
any time on County premises or while on County business.  With the exception of medical
marijuana, nothing in this rule is intended to prohibit the use of a drug taken under supervision by
a licensed health care professional, where its use does not present a safety hazard or otherwise
adversely impact an employee’s performance or County operations.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to all Klamath County employees except those otherwise covered by collective
bargaining agreements.

 POLICY
 Klamath County has an obligation to its employees and those who come into contact with the
County to ensure safe working conditions.  To meet that obligation and to further our commitment
to promote high standards of employee performance, productivity, health, safety and reliability
Klamath County has established this zero tolerance alcohol and drug policy.  Klamath County
requires its employees to report for work in a condition that will permit her/him to perform his/her
duties safely and efficiently.  Klamath County recognizes that an employee’s off-the-job and on-
the-job involvement with alcohol and drugs can have an impact on the work environment.
Therefore, the following information clearly outlines the County’s positions regarding the use or
possession of alcohol or drugs on the job.

The use of marijuana, which is a Schedule 1 controlled substance under federal law, is expressly
prohibited under this policy, even if its medical use is authorized under state law.  Employees who
use medical marijuana in connection with a disability should discuss with their Supervisor other
means of accommodating the disability in the workplace, as the County will not agree to allow an
employee to use medical marijuana as an accommodation.

Employees shall not:

1. Report for work with the presence of a controlled substance, intoxicant, or other illegal
drug in their system (unless prescribed by competent authority).

2. Engage in the use of alcohol or illegal drugs on County premises or on County time,
including breaks and lunch.

3. Possess, distribute, sell, manufacture, transfer, or receive any controlled substance
(drugs), or any other substances which impair job performance or pose a hazard to
the safety and welfare of the employee or other employees, on County premises or on
County time.  Violation of this rule is strictly prohibited and may result in immediate
termination.

♦ Each employee must report to his/her immediate supervisor the use of medically authorized
drugs which can impair job performance and provide proper authorization from a physician to
work while using such authorized drugs.  It is the employee’s responsibility to determine from
the physician whether the prescribed drug would impair job performance.  Some over-the-
counter drugs may also impair job performance.  Please read the directions carefully.  The
County may require a physician’s written excuse from any employee claiming to need time off
for medical reasons or because he/she is taking an over-the-counter drug which impairs
performance and safety.  Abuse of prescription or over-the-counter drugs is a violation of this
agreement.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 400-12
♦ Employees who violate the above policies shall be subject to disciplinary action, up to and
including termination.

Drug and Alcohol Testing

♦ Klamath County has established the following procedure for the testing of drug and alcohol
use among its employees.  Klamath County has the right to require urine or breathalyzer
testing in any of the following situations.  Failure to give written consent, without qualification,
to drug and alcohol testing, or failure to provide samples for such testing is grounds for
immediate termination or can be considered a “voluntary termination.”

• If a finalist applicant’s position requires pre-employment drug screening the applicant prior
to employment (excluding emergency hires) shall be required to submit to a urinalysis.  If
the test is positive, employment is denied unless a defense for authorized prescription
drugs is successful.  The applicant may reapply in one year.

• If the employee will be involved in activities such as carrying firearms, driving a County
vehicle, performing in a job requiring a Commercial Drivers’ License (CDL) or other
situations where the use of drugs might endanger the public, they may be subject to
unannounced drug and alcohol testing.

• Employees involved in an accident or contributing to an accident or injury causing more
than $1,000 in damage to property or that requires medical attention away from the
premises will be screened to determine whether the employee tests positive for drugs
and/or alcohol.

• When there is reasonable suspicion to believe that the employee is under the influence of
a controlled substance, intoxicant, or illegal drug, the County may require drug testing
and/or alcohol testing.  If a supervisor suspects that an individual is at work and under the
influence of alcohol and/or drugs, the supervisor should notify the Director of Human
Resources or their designee to seek authorization to test the employee. The supervisor
will be granted permission to test the employee if sufficient observable objective
symptoms exist to indicate the employee may be under the influence of drugs and/or
alcohol. Observable changes in employee performance, appearance, behavior, speech,
etc., which provide suspicion of the presence of drugs or alcohol, are grounds for
requiring a fitness for duty evaluation involving urine or breathalyzer testing.  Such bases
for suspicion can include, but are not limited to:

 Absenteeism or excessive tardiness;
 Declining performance;
 Suspect behavior, such as but not limited to, stumbling, slurred or incoherent
speech, apparent confusion in orientation, emotional outbursts;
 Inability to perform normal job tasks;
 The unsafe handling of equipment or tools; or
 The actual observance of such behavior as drinking alcohol or using some
other drug.

• When there is reasonable suspicion to believe the employee is under the influence of a
controlled substance, intoxicant or illegal drug, the employee is not to return to work until
fitness for duty is established.  This time will be treated as a suspension with pay, pending
the outcome of the testing.  The employee shall be paid for any time lost from work if the
tests are drug-free.

♦ If the test is positive, the employee will normally be referred to the EAP in lieu of termination
on the first occasion.  The following procedure will apply:

 All positive tests will be subjected to a secondary confirmatory test (on the same sample)
using a gas chromatography/mass spectrometry test or a superior or equally reliable test if
same becomes reasonably available.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 400-13
 If the secondary test confirms the initial positive test result, the employee will be
immediately suspended for violation of County policy.  The employee may have the
opportunity then to either sign a Performance Contract or Last Chance Agreement and seek
treatment, or sever his/her employment relationship with Klamath County.

 The employee that chooses rehabilitation will be expected to meet with an accredited
professional to assess the nature and severity of his/her problem, and to establish a treatment
program.  Failure to complete the program or to cooperate with the drug/alcohol counselor is
considered a breach of the Performance Contract or Last Chance Agreement and will result in
immediate termination.

♦ Appeal Procedures:  The employee or applicant, at his/her own expense, will have the
opportunity to have a licensed testing facility test the same sample submitted to the original
testing facility.  Accepted chain of custody procedures must be followed and the testing facility
must meet all standards set by the Federal Health Agencies for laboratory performance using
certified Medical Technologists and Technicians.  An employee may request the independent
test by notifying the Director of Human Resources in writing within two (2) calendar days after
the day the employee is informed of the test results.  The test result will be kept confidential
and will be available only to a designated employer representative.  If the appealed test
comes out drug and alcohol free, Klamath County will pay for the test.

♦ Searches:  Klamath County reserves the right to inspect and/or search all County property for
intoxicating liquor, controlled or illegal substances, or any other substances which impair job
performance.  Refusal to submit to any such inspection or refusal to cooperate in any
investigation will subject the employee to disciplinary action up to and including immediate
suspension or termination.  When controlled substances are located on County property, local
law enforcement officials will be contacted.

♦ Confidentiality:  The results and records of alcohol and drug testing are to be considered
confidential and are not to be discussed or shared with anyone who does not need to know.
Likewise, a manager must not discuss the suspected reason for a referral with anyone who
does not need to know.  Records shall not become part of an employee’s personnel file.

♦ Other Conditions:

1.  Any employee tampering with or altering a drug or alcohol screening test may be subject to
immediate termination.  An applicant engaging in the above conduct may not be eligible for
employment or the right to re-apply.

2.  All employees are expected to cooperate fully in any investigations resulting from this
policy.

3.  The County reserves the right to determine whether suspicion exists and the level of
discipline to be applied.

♦ Laboratory testing will be completed at a licensed testing facility that meets all standards set
forth by the Federal Health Agencies for laboratory performance using Certified Medical
Technologists and Technicians.

♦ Definitions:  For the purpose of this policy, the following definitions are provided:

 Presence is defined as the threshold level of alcohol or drugs in an employee’s urine as
determined by an accredited laboratory chosen by Klamath County.

 Controlled Substances* include all forms of narcotics, depressants, stimulants,
hallucinogens, and cannaboids, whose sale, purchase, transfer, use or possession are
prohibited by law.  *(These are defined in ORS 475.005.)

 Over-the-Counter Drugs are those which are generally available without a prescription
from a medical doctor and are limited to those drugs which are capable of impairing the
judgment of an employee to safely perform his/her duties.
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 400-14

 Medically Authorized (Prescription) Drugs are those drugs which are used in the course of
medical treatment and have been prescribed and authorized for use by a licensed
practitioner/physician or dentist.

Conviction Under Criminal Drug Statute

♦ Employees arrested for driving while under the influence of alcohol or drugs including illegal or
prescription medications, whether on duty or off:
• Must report the arrest to their Department Head and the Director of Human Resources
department within five (5) day. Failure to report such an arrest may result in disciplinary
action up to and including termination.
• Will not be permitted to operate a company owned vehicle while charges are pending.
Instead, they will be assigned to other appropriate positions, if available, until disposition
of the charges.
• Will be subject to random testing for the presence of alcohol and/or drugs upon request,
with or without cause or reasonable suspicion. Failure or refusal to consent to testing
when requested will result in disciplinary action up to and including termination.

♦ A plea of no contest shall be considered a guilty plea for the purposes of this policy. An
employee’s conviction of or a plea of guilty to the crime of driving while under the influence of
alcohol and/or drugs will result in appropriate corrective action based on the employee’s
required job duties, overall work record and full consideration of the circumstances
surrounding the situation.  When appropriate, disciplinary action deemed may range from a
verbal or written warning to suspension, reassignment, demotion or termination of
employment regardless of whether the conviction is reversed on appeal.
♦ While the organization does not condone the abuse of alcohol, prescription drugs, and/or use
of illegal drugs, Klamath County does recognize that addiction to drugs and/or alcohol can be
treated. If an employee recognizes a personal addiction or abuse problem and seeks
assistance from management in advance of detection, the organization will assist the
employee in seeking treatment. The confidential nature of the employee’s counseling and
rehabilitation for drug and/or alcohol abuse will be preserved.

Employee Assistance Program (EAP)

♦ Klamath County offers an EAP to provide confidential assistance to employees and their
families with a personal drug and/or alcohol problem, and other human problems that may
have an impact on the employee’s health and job performance.  Any employee of Klamath
County wishing confidential assistance for any such problems can contact the EAP directly or
consult with the Human Resources Department.  We encourage any individual with a drug or
alcohol problem to seek assistance.  Employees are strongly encouraged to use the EAP on a
voluntary basis before drug and/or alcohol problems jeopardize their employment.  (See
Policy Number 316 for more information).
♦ All information relating to drug and/or alcohol screens is to be kept strictly confidential. The
information will be kept in the employee’s medical file, which will be maintained separately
from the employee’s personnel file. These medical files will be kept locked and secured and
access will be limited to certain individuals in the organization. Under no circumstances
should the results of a drug and/or alcohol screen be discussed with individuals who do not
have a work-related need to know.
♦ Situations Not Covered by Policy:  Klamath County recognizes that situations may arise which
are not specifically covered by this policy and these guidelines.  These will be dealt with on a
case-by-case basis, taking into account such things as the nature of the situation or problem,
the employee’s overall employment record and job assignment, the potential impact on
production, safety and customer relations.
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 400-15
416. DRESS AND PERSONAL APPEARANCE

 PURPOSE
 To establish guidelines for appropriate dress and appearance during normal business hours of the
County.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to all Klamath County employees.

 POLICY
 Employees are expected to maintain an appropriate appearance that is businesslike, neat and
clean as determined by the requirements of the position they hold and the duties they perform.
Employees are expected to conduct themselves in a manner which is appropriate for public
service.

 PROCEDURE
 The Department Head is responsible for establishing the standards governing personal
appearance within their department.  Standards should be relative to the position held and the
duties performed.  Such standards vary from time to time, but must not be arbitrarily or
unreasonable imposed.

The following guidelines may help to clarify our expectations in this area:

 Hair should be clean, combed and well maintained in a business-like style.

 Male employees should be clean shaven or have neat, well-trimmed beards, mustaches,
sideburns or goatees.

 Employees are expected to dress in a business-like manner.  Depending on your position, this
may require men to wear a suit, sports coat or jacket, slacks and tie; and women to wear
suits, pant suits, skirts or dress slacks and blouses, dresses or other appropriate attire.
Hemlines should be of an appropriate length for a professional business environment.

 Most offices have adopted Friday as a casual day; however, you should wear your normal
business attire if you will be representing the County outside the office on that day.
Employees may dress in casual clothing, including jeans, although dress standards still
require a neat, clean appearance.

 Unless indicated otherwise, under no circumstances may employees wear shorts, t-shirts,
tank-tops, halter or bare-midriff tops, sweatshirts, sweatpants, clothing with offensive wording,
torn clothing, clothing with holes in it, leotards, unitards or other revealing, tight-fitting clothing
or oversized clothing.  All clothing must be clean, neat, and fit properly.  Safe, neat, and clean
shoes should be worn at all times.

417. USE OF TOBACCO IN THE WORKPLACE
(Amended Effective 12-13-2016)

 PURPOSE
 To comply with applicable health codes (ORS 433.835 – 433.875), and to reasonably
accommodate the preference of both smoking and non-smoking employees.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to all Klamath County employees.

 POLICY
 The County respects the individual preferences of smoking and non-smoking employees.   When
these preferences come in conflict, the County anticipates that the majority of instances will be
resolved through a spirit of courtesy and cooperation.  The Department Head and Director of
Human Resources may be helpful in reaching an accommodation.  It is not intended, however, to
establish “extra” break periods in order to allow a smoker to smoke.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 400-16
 DEFINITION
 “Smoking” means inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying any lighted smoking equipment for
tobacco.  “Tobacco” includes the smoking of any tobacco-based product, smoking in any form
which includes, but is not limited to, smokeless tobacco, cigars, e-cigarettes, vaping and the use
of oral tobacco products or “chew/spit tobacco.

 PROCEDURE
♦ Prohibited Areas.  For reasons of safety, public relations or other concerns, smoking is
prohibited in all spaces, unless designated as a smoking area.  In accordance with ORS
433.845, a person may not smoke or carry any lighted smoking instrument within 10 feet of
public places, to include entrances; exits, windows that open, or ventilation intakes that serve
an enclosed area.

♦ Vehicles.  Smoking in county vehicles is also prohibited.

♦ Visitors.  Visitors to any County department are expected to observe smoking and non-
smoking area designations.

418.  MEDIA RELEASES AND STATEMENTS

 PURPOSE
 To identify who has the authority to release information and/or a statement to the media.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to all Klamath County employees.

 POLICY
♦ Only Department Heads or their designee have the authority to make news releases or
statements to the media concerning department matters.  Questions concerning other
departments shall be directed to the appropriate Department Head or the Board of County
Commissioners.

♦ No statements shall be made to the media regarding personnel matters, under any
circumstances, without prior consultation with the Board of County Commissioners, County
Counsel, and the Director of Human Resources.

419.  DISCIPLINE GUIDELINES
(Amended Effective 12-01-2012)

 PURPOSE
 To set forth general supervisory guidelines for a corrective action process aimed to document and
correct undesirable employee behavior.

SCOPE
This policy applies to all Klamath County employees, except non-union employees reporting to an
Elected Official and those otherwise covered by a collective bargaining agreement.  Note:  This
policy does not override an employees ‘at-will’ status and is subservient to it.

 POLICY
 The County seeks to establish and maintain standards of employee conduct and supervisory
practices which will, in the interest of the County and its employees, support and promote effective
business operations.  Such supervisory practices include administering corrective action when
employee conduct or performance problems arise.  Discipline of County employees may be
corrective, progressive and shall be lawful.  Discipline is corrective when supervisors work with
employees to identify a problem, correct it and restore the employee to a productive employment
status.  In this situation, however, the employee plays a key role in making the correction.
Progressive discipline guidelines normally begin with oral or written warnings and may be later
followed by suspension from work, reassignment or demotion, or termination.  The County is not
required to go through any specific number (or order) of steps.  More serious offenses may
warrant a suspension, reassignment or demotion, or termination at the first occurrence as
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 400-17
determined in the County’s sole discretion.  Discipline and the procedures followed to impose it
shall comply with state and federal law and County policy.

 OPTIONS FOR CORRECTIVE ACTION
 Supervisors should bring all discipline actions beyond an oral warning to the attention of their
Department Head prior to taking any action. Department Heads need to consult with the Director
of Human Resources to assure that appropriate procedure has been followed prior to
implementation of corrective action.  Major elements of this policy generally include:

♦ Constructive effort by the supervisor to help employees achieve fully satisfactory standards of
conduct and job performance.

♦ Correcting employee’s shortcomings or negative behavior to the extent required.

♦ Notice to employees through communicating this policy that continued or gross violation of
employee standards of conduct or unsatisfactory job performance will not be tolerated.

♦ Written documentation of disciplinary warnings given and corrective measures taken.

♦ Documentation of corrective action will become part of the employee’s personnel record.

 PROCEDURE
 Each supervisor should have a thorough knowledge of all applicable County work rules, policies
and procedures, and communicate them to employees through employee meetings, bulletin
boards and memoranda.  Supervisors should insure that each employee is provided access to an
up-to-date copy of all written policies and procedures applicable to the employee’s work.

Disciplinary Decisions
♦ Supervisors are primarily responsible for discipline decisions.  All disciplinary actions more
severe than an oral warning must be reviewed with the Department Head and the Director of
Human Resources before the discipline is imposed.
♦ In determining the appropriate level of discipline to impose, if any, a supervisor should
consider these factors:  the seriousness of the performance or conduct problem, the
employee’s prior work record with Klamath County, the employee’s response to the problems,
and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstances.

♦ All discipline should be documented in writing and placed in the effected employee’s
personnel file.  Disciplinary documents will not be removed from an employee’s personnel
file unless authorized in writing by the Department Head and the Director of Human
Resources.

Reasons for Imposing Discipline.
Discipline, up to and including discharge, is appropriate for reasons including the following
examples of unacceptable performance and conduct.  Reasons for discipline include, but are not
limited to:

• Insubordination, inefficiency, incompetence or performance of less than the
required duties.

• The use of intoxicants or non-prescribed drugs on the job, or reporting for work
under the influence of intoxicants or non-prescribed drugs.

• Habitual or excessive unexcused absence or tardiness, or abuse of sick leave
privileges.

• Absence from duty without authorization or failure to notify a supervisor when
unable to come to work or report on time.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 400-18
• Conviction of a felony or misdemeanor when the conviction would impair the
employee’s effectiveness.

• Violation of safety rules, policies, or procedures.

• Offensive conduct toward the public or fellow employees or conduct unbecoming
a Klamath County employee.

• Violation of any County rule, policy or procedure.

• Misuse of County property.

• Dishonesty or theft.

• Fraud in securing employment with Klamath County.

Investigating Performance or Conduct Problems.
A supervisor should investigate all performance or conduct problems before making a decision or
recommendation about appropriate discipline.  In general, the investigation should include these
steps.

♦ Conduct a timely and thorough investigation -- get all the facts about the problem as soon as
possible.  In certain circumstances, a suspension pending investigation may be appropriate,
after consulting with the Director of Human Resources.

♦ Interview all employees involved in private.  Do not promise any employee that the information
he/she provides will be kept confidential.

♦ All employees are expected to cooperate fully in any investigations resulting from possible
violation of County policies.

♦ Outline the facts and evidence to the employee who is the subject of the investigation and ask
the employee to present any facts or evidence in response.

♦ Document each component of the investigation.  Include the date, time and names of person
present for each conversation.  Retain the documentation.

Applying Discipline
Discipline may include the following actions: counseling to encourage appropriate behavior, and
progressing through an oral warning, written warning, suspension from work, reassignment,
demotion or discharge.  The County will not go through any specific number (or order) of
disciplinary actions.  More serious offenses may warrant a suspension, reassignment, demotion
or discharge for the first occurrence.  Alternate forms of discipline may be used when deemed
more appropriate.  A supervisor must determine the appropriate level of discipline to impose
depending on the circumstances and must be discussed with the Director of Human Resources.

♦ Oral Warning.  An oral warning is a formal, private conversation between a supervisor and an
employee aimed at correcting a performance or conduct problem.  It is primarily a counseling
session and it generally occurs if informal conversations have failed to correct a problem.
The goal is to make certain that the employee understands that his or her conduct or
performance is creating a problem and to help the employee produce the desired change.  A
written notation of the oral warning is placed in the employee’s personnel file.

♦ Written Warning.  A written warning is appropriate to communicate a disciplinary message in
writing, to inform the employee about the need to correct a conduct or performance problem.
A written warning should clearly state:  the problem and rule violated; the supervisor’s
performance or conduct expectations; and the consequences that will occur if the employee
does not meet those expectations.  A copy of the written warning is filed in the employee’s
personnel file and the ongoing performance is monitored.  The written warning should be
prepared following a corrective action discussion with the employee. The employee will be
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 400-19
given an opportunity to comment in writing and should be asked to sign the warning,
acknowledging receipt.  Three copies of the warning notice will be distributed as follows:  (1)
employee; (2) supervisor; and  (3) the Human Resources Department for placement in the
employee file.

♦ Suspension.  If an employee fails to respond to a written warning in a satisfactory manner, or
commits a violation of County policies and procedures that the supervisor reasonably believes
to warrant immediate , severe disciplinary action, short of termination, the employee should be
advised that he/she is being suspended without pay for a set period of time, generally not
more than five (5) working days (suspension for exempt employees will be at least five (5)
days), and the reasons as to why this action is being taken should be stated.  No suspensions
will be imposed without clearing such disciplinary action with the Director of Human
Resources.  Pre-disciplinary procedures should be followed before a suspension is imposed.

♦ Demotion or Reassignment.  More severe or repeated violation or failure to correct
performance or conduct problems may result in a reassignment or demotion if the supervisor
determines it is possible for the employee to be retained in the current position.  Demotions
and/or reassignments normally occur after being duly warned in a warning letter.  A demotion
or reassignment will not be effective until the Department Head has coordinated with the
Director of Human Resources to ensure that all administrative procedures and requirements
are met.  An employee who is demoted or reassigned to a lower classification may be placed
at any step of the range in which the position has been classified.  An employee who is
demoted or reassigned to a lower classification shall serve at least a six (6) month
probationary employment period.  If unable to perform the duties of the position, the employee
generally shall be discharged.  Pre-disciplinary procedures should be followed before an
employee is demoted or reassigned for disciplinary reasons.

♦ Discharge.  For infractions management deems to be sufficiently serious or continued failure
to respond appropriately to prior corrective action, discharge is appropriate.  Discharge will not
be effective until the Department Head has coordinated with the Director of Human
Resources to ensure that all administrative procedures and requirements are met.

Procedural Guidelines for Suspension, Demotion or Discharge
When a supervisor considers the suspension, demotion or discharge of an employee, the
following steps generally should be taken:

♦ Notice of Proposed Discipline.  The supervisor will present the employee with a written notice
of proposed discipline, which shall notify the employee of the factual allegations or charges
made, the evidence supporting the allegations or charges, citations to any rules violated and
the level of discipline being considered.  The written notice will also establish a time and place
for a pre-disciplinary meeting, at which the employee will have an opportunity to respond to
the charges either in writing or in person.

♦ Pre-Disciplinary Meeting.  The purpose of a pre-disciplinary meeting is to give the employee
an opportunity to respond to the allegations and information contained in the notice of
proposed discipline, before a final disciplinary decision is made.  The meeting is an informal
conversation.  The employee may present his/her own written or oral statement, written
statements from others with relevant information, and other documents or physical evidence.
The supervisors should listen to information presented by the employee and ask questions to
clarify the employee’s information.  An employee is entitled to have a co-worker present
during this meeting; however, this does not include an attorney or other similar representative.
Any request by an employee to bring an observer to the meeting must be approved in
advance by the Director of Human Resources.  Another management employee and/or a
representative of the Human Resources Department also should attend the meeting.  In
disciplinary matters, sufficient objectivity must be retained by higher levels of management to
insure a fair review of an employee grievance (if available to the employee).  This requirement
for objectivity does not mean, however, that higher levels of management should not be fully
aware of the disciplinary proceedings.  Supervisors and others attending a pre-termination
meeting should take thorough notes and retain this documentation.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 400-20
♦ Imposition of discipline. The supervisor should review all information and evidence available,
including the information presented by the employee during the pre-disciplinary meeting, the
work record of the employee, any aggravating or mitigating circumstances, and any other
relevant information to determine if discipline is warranted, and if so, what level of discipline is
appropriate.  The supervisor must confer with the Director of Human Resources when making
a final disciplinary decision.

♦ Documentation of a disciplinary decision.  The supervisor will present the discipline decision in
writing.  The decision must include the following information:  A confirmation that the
information presented during the pre-disciplinary meeting has been considered; a statement
of the decision either to uphold or modify the proposed discipline; and a reference to the
employee’s right to grieve the decision through the employee grievance or problem solving
process (if available to the employee).  This disciplinary decision should be hand delivered to
the employee, or mailed, certified and return receipt requested.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 500-1
500. EMPLOYEE COMMUNICATIONS

510. BULLETIN BOARDS

 PURPOSE
 To provide an effective and open channel of communication between employees and County
leadership.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to all Klamath County departments, except those otherwise covered by
collective bargaining agreements.

 POLICY
 Important job-related information may be displayed on department bulletin boards.  Information
should normally be of the following types:

 • Legally required posters and notices.
 • County standards and rules of conduct.
 • Safety rules and related information.
 • Management memos and announcements.
 • Job vacancy postings.
 • Employment or benefits-related materials.

 Employees will be responsible for regularly checking and reading department bulletin boards for
rules, regulations, information and instructions posted on an on-going basis.

 PROCEDURE
Information posted on bulletin boards must be approved in advance by the Department Head or
his/her designee.

Each department will be responsible for maintaining the orderly appearance of their bulletin
boards, which includes the posting of new information and the removing of outdated material.

511.  COMPUTER SYSTEMS AND ELECTRONIC TECHNOLOGY, DEVICES, AND SERVICES
(Amended 11-20-2018)

 PURPOSE
 T o establish guidelines and standards for proper use of the County telephones, computer
systems,  and electronic technology, devices, and services used by employees to perform
assigned duties and conduct business on behalf of the County and its departments.

REFERENCES
 ORS 244.010, et seq., Oregon Government Standards and Practices Commission (GSPC)
Advisory Opinion 98A-1003, Oregon GSPC Advisory Opinion 02A-1002 and Oregon GSPC
Advisory Opinion 02A-1008.

SCOPE
This Policy applies to all County employees. Any reference in this Policy to "employee(s)" is
intended to include all employees, contractors, temporary workers, volunteers , and others that
operate County-owned computer systems and electronic technology, devices, or services.

Unauthorized use by non- employees is strictly prohibited. The Department Head, or  designee,
may authorize the use of the County's computer system ,  electronic technology , devices, or
services by a non-employee who has a legitimate County business purpose for use, such as work
experience placements, trainees or interns, vendors, independent contractors, or volunteers. Non-
employees must be authorized to use County systems or equipment and must be advised of their
responsibility to follow the standards contained in this Policy and any  other applicable County or
department policies, procedures, or regulations.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 500-2
DEFINITIONS
“Computer Systems" include, but are not limited to, computers and all computer components such
as processing units and contents, hardware and drives, laptop computers, computer screens,
keyboards, software programs, networks, cables or wires, switches, printers, scanners, and/or
speakers.

"Electronic Technology, Devices, or Services" include, but are not limited to, electronic mail (e-
mail), Internet/Intranet, telephones, voicemail, cellular devices, facsimile (fax) machines,
County web page(s), security, storage and back-up media, video teleconferencing, electronic
subscription services, electronic documents, personal data assistants (PDAs), pagers, or other
hard-wired or wireless communication devices. This includes access to the County's computer
system from off-site locations.

“Cellular Devices” include, but are not limited to, cell phones, smart phones (including iPhones
and similar devices), tablets, and similar devices.

“Hands-Free Accessory” as defined by ORS 811.507(1)(b) is an attachment or built-in feature for
or an addition to a mobile electronic device that when used gives a person the ability to keep both
hands on the steering wheel.

POLICY

It is a violation of ORS 244.040(1) (a) when a public official uses their public position to benefit
personally from public resources that would not otherwise be available but for the holding of the
position. Agency cost is not a determining factor; however, there are occasions when public
officials may use their employing agency’s computer systems and electronic technology, devices,
or services for personal purposes without such usage being at odds with the law. It is normal
practice by both public and private employers to permit employees to use business telephones to
talk to family members, make medical appointments, schedule service technicians, confer with a
child’s school and take care of any of a variety of other matters which can only be accomplished
during regular working hours. (GSPC Advisory Opinion 02A-1008)

Ownership
All information and communications , in any format, stored by any means on or rec eived via
Klamath County’s computer systems, and electronic technology, devices, or services is the sole
property of Klamath County.

Personal Usage
All Klamath County  Computer systems and electronic technology, devices, and services are
provided and intended for Klamath County business purposes only. Personal, non-work related,
use of the County's computer system s and electronic technology, devices, and/or electronic
services may be allowable within reasonable limits as long as it is not excessive;  does not
interfere or conflict with County Policy ; does not affect the completion of assignments, duties, or
working hours; and does not incur an additional cost to the County. Klamath County reserves the
right to determine whether any use is inappropriate (obscene, hateful, contains objectionable
materials, is discriminatory, or viewed as harassment) , excessive, and/or violates County Policy.
Employees may not use County provided computer systems, electronic technology, devices, or
services such as Internet or Wi-Fi to:
• Display or store any sexually explicit images or documents, or any images or documents that
would violate Klamath County’s policies on harassment, discrimination, or bullying;
• Play games (including social media games and/or gambling) or to use apps of any kind;
• Engage in any activity that violates the rights of any person or company protected by
copyright, trade secrets, patent, or other intellectual property (or similar laws or regulations);
• Engage in any activity that violates the rights to privac y of protected healthcare information or
other Klamath County specific confidential information;
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 500-3
• Engage in any activity that would introduce malicious software purposefully into a workstation
or network (e.g., viruses, worms, Trojan horses);
• Download or view streaming video for personal use.  This includes, without limitation,
YouTube videos, movies, and TV shows. Streaming audio is allowed, providing it does not
contain explicit material, adversely affect network speed, or interfere with others’ ability to
work;
• V isit Internet sites that contain obscene, hateful , or other objectionable materials, or that
would otherwise violate Klamath County’s policies on harassment and discrimination.

Further, employees may not use Klamath County provided email addresses  to create or manage
personal accounts (e.g., shopping websites, personal bank accounts, and social media accounts).

Personal telephone calls, both incoming and outgoing, are restricted to essential personal
business and should be kept as brief and infrequent as possible. Any necessary personal non-
emergency telephone calls should be conducted during break time whenever possible. Friends
and relatives should be advised not to call during work hours unless there is an emergency.
During work time employees should limit the use of personal cellular devices.  Employees should
set personal cellular devices on silent to avoid disturbing those working around them.

Each County department may establish an internal written p olicy for its employees  regarding the
extent of personal use and limitations on County computer systems, electronic technology ,
devices, and services. Departmental policies must be approved by the IT Director in order to
assure there are no additional County costs incurred, system reliability, an d that security will not
be compromised. In addition to compliance with this County Policy, employees shall be provided a
written copy and notified of their responsibility to adhere to specific Department  rules and
regulations on personal use of computer systems, electronic technology, devices, and electronic
services.

Inspection and Monitoring
Employee communications, both business and personal, made using Klamath County computer
systems and electronic technology, devices,  and services are not private.  Any data created,
received, or transmitted using Klamath County computer systems and electronic technology,
devices, and services are the property of Klamath County and usually can be recovered even
though deleted by the user.
All information and communications in any format, stored by any means on Klamath County’s
systems are subject to inspection at any time without notice. Personal passwords may be used for
purposes of security, but the use of a personal password does not affect Klamath County’s
ownership of or right to inspect the computer system and electronic technology, devices, and
services. Klamath County reserves the right to access and review electronic files, documents,
archived material, messages, email, voicemail, and other such material to monitor the use of all of
Klamath County system including all communications and internet usage and resources visited.
Klamath County will override all personal passwords if it becomes necessary to do so for any
reason.

Personal Hardware and Software
Employees may not install personal hardware or software on Klamath County’s computer systems
without approval from the Department Head. All software installed on Klamath County’s computer
systems must be licensed. Copying or transferring of Klamath County owned software may be
done only with the written authorization of the Department Head.  E xternal USB devices or cell
phone cables are not to be connected to County owned devices without approval from the
Information Technology Department.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 500-4
Unauthorized Access
Employees are not permitted unauthorized access to the electronic communications of other
employees or third parties unless directed to do so by the Klamath County Board of County
Commissioners. No employee can examine, change, or use another person’s files, output, or user
name unless they have explicit authorization from the Department Head to do so.

Security
Many forms of electronic communication are not secure. Employees who use cell phones,
cordless phones, fax communications , or email sent over the Int ernet should be aware that such
forms of communication are subject to interception and these methods of communicating should
not be used for privileged, confidential, or sensitive information unless appropriate encryption
measures are implemented.

511.A Cellular Devices Policy
This policy applies to employee use of cell ular devices as defined in the Computer Systems and
Electronic Technology, Devices, and Services Policy. Cellular Devices in g eneral include both
Klamath County provided and personal cell phones/cellular devices utilized for County business.
Employees who use personal or Klamath County provided cellular devices may not violate
Klamath County’s policies against harassment and discrimination. Thus, employees who use a
personal or Klamath County provided cellular device to send a text or instant message to another
employee (or to a citizen or someone not employed by the Klamath County) that is harassing or
otherwise in violation of Klamath County’s no- harassment and no- discrimination policies wi ll be
subject to discipline, up to and including termination.
Non-exempt employees may not use their personal or Klamath County provided cellular device for
work purposes outside of their normal work schedule without written authorization in advance from
the Department Head. This includes, but is not limited to, reviewing, sending,  and responding to
emails or text messages, and responding to calls or making calls.  Employees who violate this
policy may be subject to discipline, up to and including termination.
Cellular devices are provided to Klamath County employees on a limited basis to conduct Klamath
County business only. A determination as to which employees receive Klamath County provided
cellular devices  is made on a case- by-case basis; employees are not guaranteed a cellular
device.
Employees who receive a cellular device from Klamath County must agree to not use the cellular
device for personal use except in emergency situations and must abide by all requirements of the
Computer Systems and Electronic Technology, Devices, and S ervices Policy. Further, employees
who receive a cellular device or a Cellular Device Allowance from Klamath County must
acknowledge and understand that because the cellular device is paid for and provided by Klamath
County or  is subsidized by Klamath County, any communications (including text messages)
received by or sent from the cellular device may be subject to inspection and review if Klamath
County has reasonable grounds to believe that the employee’s use of the cell ular device violates
any aspect of the Computer Systems and Electronic Technology, Devices, and S ervices Policy or
any other Klamath County policy.  An employee who refuses to provide Klamath County access to
a personal cellular device in connection with an inv estigation and after reasonable notice may be
subject to discipline, up to and including termination.
Employees may not use Klamath County provided cellular devices to call 1- 900, 1-976 or similar
“pay per minute” services.  Further, family and friends may  not use an employee’s Klamath
County provided cell phone/cellular device.

Cellular Device Allowance
Elected Officials and Department Heads are allowed a cellular device allowance, in the amount of
$60 per month, in lieu of a County issued cellular device. The cellular device allowance amount
may be adjusted periodically, at the discretion of the Board of County Commissioners. The
allowance is paid on the payroll check dated on the 25
th of the month for that month’s usage. A
cellular allowance is considered taxable income by the IRS. If an employee moves from an
allowance to a County issued cellular device or vice versa, the stipend will be prorated for the
month the activity occurs in. At no time may an employee received a stipend and a County issued
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 500-5
cellular device at the same time. A Cellular Telephone Allowance Request Form (KCHR #39)
must be completed, approved, and submitted to the Human Resources Department for
processing prior to receiving the allowance.  The allowance is intended to subsidize the purchase
of a personal cellular device and plan which would be utilized for County business. This
subsidized device is not restricted for personal use. Individuals that receive an allowance must
provide the County with the cellular device’s telephone number.

Public Records
Klamath County related business conducted on Klamath County provided or County subsidized
personal cellular devices are subject to disclosure under Oregon’s Public Records laws.
Cellular Device Use While Driving
The use of a cellular device while driving may present a hazard to the driver, other employees ,
and the general public. Oregon law , ORS 811.507, prohibits the use of handheld cell ular devices
while driving, even if the driving is for work -related reasons, with the exception for public safety
personnel. This policy is meant to ensure the safe operation of Klamath County vehicles and
private vehicles while an employee is on work time. This applies equally to the usage of
employee-owned cellular devices and devices provided or subsidized by Klamath County.
Employees are prohibited from using handheld cellular devices for any purpose, including sending
or receiving a text or instant message, while driving on Klamath County authorized business.  If an
employee needs to make or receive a business call while driving, the employee must locate a
lawfully designated area to park and conduct  the call. ORS 811.507 allows the use of a hands -
free accessory for individuals 18 years of age and older.   However, Klamath County does not
recommend t he use of a hands-free accessory in lieu of  leaving the roadway to a safe parking
spot. In all situations, such calls should be kept short . Violation of this policy will subject the
employee to discipline, up to and including termination.

Mobile Device Management
Due to the nature of information that is stored via email, all cellular devices that are County owned
or are personal and used for County business must have a Mobile Device Management software
client installed.  A “Waiver to Wipe Contents Agreement”  must be signed by the employee and the
mobile device management software must be installed in order for , the employee to be granted
permission to access County email from outside the normal workstation.
If a County owned or a personal cellular device us ed for County Business  is lost, stolen, or
damaged, it must be reported to the Information Technology Department immediately so that the
data  on the device can be secured.
Some cellular devices require regular back up and maintenance.  County owned devices that
require a backup are done so via the cloud.  It is prohibited to back up County owned devices to a
non-County workstation, laptop, or device.
The County reserves the right to inspect equipment, contents, related data compilations, Internet
usage, and resources as necessary for business purposes without prior notice to the employee
and/or in the employee’s absence.  Personal passwords may be used. T he use of a password
does not affect the C ounty’s ownership of electronic information or the right to inspect such
information.  A ny data transmitted, stored,  or received on a County cellular device or County
subsidized device are subject to the Public Information Act.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 500-6
511. B Password Policy
 An organization’ s greatest security vulnerabilities lie i n the strength of passwords.  Simple or
shared passwords are ineffective and aid hackers in accessing the organization’s sensitive,
proprietary, and confidential data.  Protecting the County’s computers systems, and electronic
technology, devices, and serv ices from unauthorized access is of paramount importance; strong
passwords play a critical role in the process.

 Passwords for all systems must never to be shared and are subject to the following rules:
• No passwords are to be spoken, written, emailed, hinted at, shared, or otherwise made known
to anyone other than the user involved.
• No passwords are to be shared in order to “cover” for another individual who is out of the
office or otherwise indisposed.  Instead, contact the Information Technology Department for a
temporary account and/or password.
• Lock your PC when leaving it unattended. Passwords must be at least eight  characters in
length; containing both upper and lower case letters, number, and a symbol (ie. !, @, #, $, %, etc).

 Violation of this policy will because for discipline, up to and including termination

511.C Social Media Policy
For purposes of this policy, “social media” includes all means of communicating or posting
information or content of any sort on the Internet, including to a personal  or someone else’s web
log or blog, journal or diary, web site, social network or affinity web site, or web bulletin board or a
chat room. Conduct that adversely affects your job performance, the performance of coworkers,
or otherwise adversely affects our citizens or people who work on behalf of Klamath County or
Klamath County’s legitimate business interests may result in disciplinary action up to and
including termination. Employees are prohibited from creating and posting any text, images , or
other m edia that violate Klamath County’s harassment and discrimination policies . Employees
are not allowed to create a link from a  blog, website, or other social networking site to a Klamath
County owned or maintained website without identifying as an Klamath County Employee.
Employees may only express personal opinions on social media platforms and may not, unless
expressly granted permission, express or represent the views of Klamath County.   If Klamath
County is a subject of the content being created, it must be clear you are an  employee of
Klamath County your views do not represent those of Klamath County , its employees, or elected
officials.

Encouraged Conduct
Always be fair and courteous to coworkers, the citizens we serve, Klamath County’s employees
and elected officials, and suppliers or other third parties who do business with Klamath County.  If
you post complaints or criticism, you must avoid using statements, photographs, video,  or audio
that reasonably could be viewed as malicious, obscene, threatening or intimidating, that disparage
citizens, coworkers, Klamath County employees , or elected officials, or that might constitute
harassment or bullying. Examples of such conduct might include offensive posts meant to
intentionally harm someone’s reputation or posts that could contribute to a hostile work
environment on the basis of race, sex, disability, religion or any other status protected by law or
Klamath County policy.  Employees must m aintain the confidentiality of Klamath County’s
confidential inform ation.  Do not post internal reports, policies, procedures , or other internal
Klamath County related confidential communications or information.

Request for Employee Social Media Passwords
Klamath County’s supervisors and managers are prohibited by law f rom requesting an employee
or applicant provide access to a personal social media account.  This includes, without limitation,
requesting a user name and password that would allow a supervisor/manager to access a private
email account not provided by Klamath County.
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 500-7
Klamath County may require an employee to produce content from a personal social media or
internet account in connection with an  investigation into potential misconduct, unlawful or
unethical behavior, or policy or rule violations.

511. D Network Storage Policy
For purposes of this policy, “network storage” includes all storage drives provided by Klamath
County for the use of storing business related documents.  Only business related documents may
be stored on the network storage.  All personal items such as pictures, letters, and music, shall
not be stored on the County provided network storage.  Any items that are discovered personal in
nature will be deleted from the network storage, without prior warning.  Personal items should not
be accessed or stored on Klamath County provided equipment and should be accessed on
personal devices.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 500-8
EMPLOYEE ACKNOWLEDGMENT

I have received a copy of and have reviewed the Klamath County Computer Systems and Electronic
Technology, Devices, and Services Policy. I have been provided the opportunity to discuss the Policy and
its requirements with a supervisor or manager. I understand that I will be held responsible for  knowledge
of the contents and must comply with this Policy and its provisions.

I understand that violation of the County's Computer Systems and Electronic Technology , Devices, and
Services Policy may result in restrictions to or revocation of my access to County's computer system s, or
electronic technology, device(s),  and services. Violations  may result in disciplinary action, up to and
including termination of employment.

I further understand that a violation may constitute a criminal offense and may result in an investigation
and/or prosecution by local, state, or federal law enforcement agencies.

My signature below indicates that I have read , understand, and agree to abide by the above
Employee Acknowledgment. I understand that it is my responsibility to read the entire Policy and
attachments and that I must contact my Supervisor or Departmen t Head if I have any questions
regarding the Policy or if I do not understand its requirements.

Employee Signature

Manager Signature
Employee Name

Manager Name
Employee Title

Manager Title
Date

Date
Employee Department/Location

Manager Department/Location

Disclaimer: This policy is not a substitute for legal advice. If you have legal questions related to this policy,
see an attorney.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 500-9
WAIVER TO WIPE CONTENTS AGREEMENT

This agreement provides permission to Klamath County’s Information Technology Department to emote wipe my
County owned or County subsidized personal cellular device clean of all information if access has been grant to
Klamath County information through MS Exchange or other sources.  This waiver must  be signed in conjunction with
the Computer Systems and Electronic Technology, Devices, and Services  Policy when a request for access to the
Exchange access is made. Failure to sign this agreement will result in denied access to the Exchange. If an
employee refuses to sign this agreement and their position requires them to have a cellular device, the employee will
be subject to disciplinary action.

This waiver protects the integrity of Klamath County’s data by removing all potential company data from a personal
or County issued cellular device by wiping the device clean in certain situations which include, but is not limited to:

o Termination of Employment
o Theft of the Device
o Loss of the Device

When necessary, the IT Department will initiate a remote, selective wipe to a specific device to remove all County
data. Personal information on a County subsidized personal phone will not be erased to the extent possible.
However, personal data may still be lost, especially if the separation of personal data from County data is not
possible due to limitations of technology or the cellul ar device.  A full wipe of both County and personal data can be
requested, if desired (e.g. if a device is lost or stolen).
Wiped personal data is not recoverable on the device itself, but can usually be restored if the individual utilizes a
back-up (e.g. from a cloud service). It is recommended that users back up their personal data frequently to
minimize loss if a remote wipe is necessary.

 EMPLOYEE DECLARATION
I, ____________________________________, have read and understand the above Waiver to Wipe Contents
Agreement and consent to have my County issued or County subsidized cellular device wiped if deemed necessary
by the IT department.

__________________________________   ___________________________
Employee Signature      Date

__________________________________   ___________________________
Department Head/Manager Signature    Date

__________________________________   ___________________________
IT Director Signature      Date

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 500-10
Enforcement

Any Klamath County personnel found in violation of this policy may be subject to disciplinary
action, up to and including termination of employment. Any third party partner company found in
violation may have their network connection terminated.

Definitions

Encryption or encrypted data – The most effective way to achieve data security. To read an
encrypted file, you must have access to a secret key or password that enables you to decrypt it.
Unencrypted data is called plain text;
Plain text – Unencrypted data.
Hacker – A slang term for a computer enthusiast, i.e., a person who enjoys learning programming
languages and computer systems and can often be considered an expert on the subject(s).
Protected Health Information (PHI) - Under US law is any information about health status,
provision of health care, or payment for health care that is created or collected by a "Covered
Entity" (or a Business Associate of a Covered Entity), and can be linked to a specific individual.
Personally Identifiable Information (PII) - Any data that could potentially identify a specific
individual. Any information that can be used to distinguish one person from another.
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 500-11
512.  SUGGESTIONS FOR IMPROVEMENT & INNOVATIVE IDEAS

 PURPOSE
 To encourage employees to suggest ways to improve the quality or efficiency of Klamath County
Government.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to all Klamath County employees.

 POLICY
 The County encourages employees to suggest methods to improve the quality or efficiency of
County services.  Employees may submit their suggestions to their supervisors or directly to the
Board of County Commissioners in writing.  The suggestions should be detailed so that the
system or procedure can be properly and adequately evaluated.  This is not a forum for personnel
or employment-related issues.  Such issues will not be addressed and will be referred to the
Director of Human Resources and/or Department Head.

513. GRIEVANCE / PROBLEM SOLVING PROCEDURE

 PURPOSE
 To provide non-union employees with a process for resolving issues or concerns in a prompt and
consistent manner.

 SCOPE
This policy applies to all Klamath County employees, except non-union employees reporting to an
Elected Official and those otherwise covered by a collective bargaining agreement.  Note:  This
policy does not override an employees ‘at-will’ status and is subservient to it.

 POLICY/PROCEDURE
 It is Klamath County’s policy to provide non-union employees covered by this policy (who do not
otherwise have access to a grievance procedure) with an orderly method of submitting and
resolving complaints about their employment with Klamath County.  This process is designed to
insure that County policies and procedures are administered fairly and uniformly, and the County’s
legal obligations to its employees are met.  It does not eliminate an employees "at-will" status.
Rather, the purpose of this procedure is to secure, at the level closest to the employee, mutually
acceptable solutions to employee concerns.  For the purpose of this procedure, a grievance
means a dispute, disagreement, or conflict about a work situation; or a dispute about the meaning
or interpretation of a particular policy or procedure; or about an alleged violation of policy or
procedure.  As used in this procedure, days mean calendar days, excluding weekends and
holidays.  Deadlines may be extended at the County's discretion.

Step One:  A non-union employee should discuss concerns with his/her supervisor and
request resolution under step one of the grievance process.  Issues of concern may include,
but are not limited to, the following:

• The interpretation or application of a County policy or rule,

• Involvement in a circumstance in which the employee feels unfair or improper
treatment by the County or by the employee’s supervisor or co-worker.

• Within five (5) days of the event prompting the grievance, the employee should attempt
to informally resolve the issue with his/her supervisor.  If an informal meeting does not
resolve the issue the employee, within the same five (5) day time period, should submit
a written grievance to his/her supervisor.  The written grievance must include a
statement of the issue and relevant facts; the rule, policy or procedure questioned or
violated; and the remedy sought.  The supervisor should then respond to the employee
in writing within three (3) days.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 500-12
 Step Two:  If the issue remains unresolved, the employee may submit the grievance to his/her
Department Head within three (3) days of the receipt of the supervisor’s response. (Note:  if
the employee’s immediate supervisor is the Department Head, the employee may move the
grievance directly to Step Three.)  The Department Head or designee should meet with the
employee and his/her immediate supervisor within three (3) days of the receipt of the
grievance.  The Department Head should respond to the grievance in writing within three (3)
days of the meeting.

Step Three: If the employee does not feel that the Department Head’s response is satisfactory
the employee may present the grievance, in writing, along with a copy of the supervisor’s and
Department Head’s reply to the Director of Human Resources within three (3) days of
receiving the response.  The Director of Human Resources will respond in writing to the
employee within three (3) days of receipt of the employee’s grievance.

Step Four.  If the employee does not feel that the Director of Human Resource’s response is
satisfactory, the employee may file an appeal to the Board of County Commissioners and the
appropriate individual(s) also involved.  This should be arranged through the Human
Resources Department.  The Board of County Commissioners reserves the exclusive right to
determine what the facts are, whether discipline is warranted, and what penalty should be
imposed.  The Board’s decision will be considered final and binding.

Note:  In the case of an involuntary termination of employment, the appeal of the termination
should be filed directly with the Human Resources Department. Upon receipt, the Board of County
Commissioners, under advisement by the Human Resources Department and County Counsel,
will conduct one or more of the following, at its discretion:

• a review and/or hearing with one, two or three of the members of the Board of
Commissioners

• a review and/or hearing with a Hearings Officer and/or panel selected by the County

• The employee may be represented during this hearing by an individual of his/her choice
during the above listed forums.  Regardless of the outcome, the decision reached during
this step of the Grievance/Problem Solving process will be considered final and binding.

Note:  Occasionally, an employee’s complaint involves his/her supervisor.  Employees may
discuss complaints with the next higher level of management within their department to avoid an
awkward situation.  As an alternative, the employee may also discuss the concern at any time with
the Director of Human Resources.  An employee may also ask the Director of Human Resources,
another County employee or another member of the County’s supervisory staff to be present at
any step of the grievance and problem solving procedure process.

Employees who have complaints of alleged harassment or discrimination should follow the
procedures in the County non-harassment policy (see Policy No. 412).

514. ANIMAL POLICY

 PURPOSE
To establish the County’s policy prohibiting animals in the work place.

 SCOPE
This policy applies to all employees and Departments of Klamath County.

Animal handlers with the Sheriff’s Office, Search and Rescue, and designated Service Animals for
people with disabilities are excluded from this policy.

Organized activities involving animals at the Fairgrounds and other County owned property by
civic organizations or members of the public is also excluded from this policy.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 500-13
POLICY
Klamath County has an obligation to its employees and the public to ensure a safe and healthy
working environment.  We need to eliminate all chances of any liability to employees or the public
when we have animals in the work place.

To be respectful to all employees and members of the public, animals will not be permitted in the
work place.

The Board of County Commissioners may grant an exception to this policy.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 w/amendments – 11/20//2018 – Page 600-1
600. TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT

610. EMPLOYEE PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

 PURPOSE
 To provide a process by which the job performance of each employee is appraised for purposes
of professional development, merit compensation action and/or performance counseling or
correction.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to performance evaluation of regular and probationary period employees.

POLICY
 The employee performance evaluation process will be managed to accomplish the following
objectives:

♦ To enhance individual employee performance and ensure effective and efficient business
operations.
♦ To summarize both formal and informal performance discussions held with employees
throughout the review period.
♦ To document performance areas in which employees are meeting expectations and to identify
opportunities for improvement.
♦ To establish performance goals and set action plans to correct performance shortcomings.

 PROCEDURE
 Each supervisor is responsible for setting and communicating clear performance standards for
his/her employees throughout the review period.  Part of this process includes the observing,
documenting, and discussing of his/her employees both the positive and negative performance
aspects.  On a regular basis each supervisor is also responsible for conducting formal
performance evaluations on each subordinate employee summarizing past discussions and
setting performance goals.

♦ Timing.  The Human Resources Department maintains a system to assist supervisors in the
timely completion of performance evaluations.  Generally employees are evaluated as follows:
 Regular-status full-time employees will receive an annual performance evaluation on their
employment anniversary date; more frequent evaluations may be conducted at any time
at the discretion of the Department Head.  (Note: Regular-status half and part-time
employees may receive an evaluation, but do not advance a ‘step’, if applicable, until their
completion of 1950 hours of worked service.)
 Newly-hired employees shall be evaluated at anytime throughout their probationary period
(See Policy No. 025, Employee Probationary/Introductory Employment Period) and then
annually thereafter on their employment anniversary date.
♦ Performance Evaluation Form.  The official County Performance Evaluation form is to be
used by all departments. Additional pages for comments authored by either the employee or
the evaluator are welcomed as attachments to the official evaluation form.
♦ Performance Evaluation Discussion.  Supervisors should meet with the evaluated employee
regarding his/her performance evaluation.  The discussion should be held at a prearranged
time in a location free from interruptions.  The content of an employee performance evaluation
is not a grievable item.
♦ Management Approval.  In addition to the supervisor’s signature, the Department Head must
review and approve the evaluation prior to the employee’s performance meeting.
♦ Employee Signature.  Employees are asked to provide comment on the evaluation and
acknowledge it by signing the form.  He/she should be provided with a copy of the signed
evaluation form and all attachments.  The original should be forwarded to Human Resources
for inclusion in the employee’s file.  If the employee declines to sign the form, he/she should
be encouraged to discuss any issues and provide comment on the reviews content.  A
supervisor may indicate an employee’s decision to not sign the review by indicating “employee
declined to sign” on the signature line along with his/her initials and the date.  The supervisor
should advise his/her Department Head of any such situation.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 w/amendments – 11/20/2018– Page 600-2
611. PROMOTIONS

PURPOSE
To support the basic organization-building process for promoting qualified employees to positions
of greater responsibility and recognition.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to all Klamath County employees except those otherwise covered by collective
bargaining agreements.

 POLICY
♦ When a position vacancy occurs, opportunities to promote from within the department may be
explored, consistent with the goal of filling positions with the most capable individual available.
♦ Employee experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, performance appraisals and career
counseling records will provide the primary input to the internal selection process.  When
these factors are relatively equal, as determined by the Human Resources Department, for
two or more employees, seniority may be considered as a decisive factor.
♦ External recruiting sources are often used simultaneously with an internal search.
♦ Receipt of a promotion does not constitute a commitment for continued employment in a new
position with the County for any specific time, nor is there a guarantee that an employee will
be able to return to his/her former position if he/she is unsuccessful in the new position.
♦ Except those otherwise covered by a collective bargaining agreement,  promoted employees
shall be placed at the first step of the new salary range that is closest to a 5% salary increase
and the employee’s anniversary date will change.

612.  JOB POSTING

 PURPOSE
 To provide a system by which employees may investigate, apply and become candidates for job
openings on an equal basis with outside applicants.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to all Klamath County departments/positions except those otherwise covered
by collective bargaining agreements.

 POLICY
 The County supports the practice of promoting from within when practicable.  However, it is the
employee who has the primary responsibility for their own career growth and development.  As a
general guideline, Klamath County posts all position vacancies whenever recruitment outside of
the department is considered.

 PROCEDURE
♦ When a vacancy occurs, the appropriate supervisor should submit an approved Employment
Requisition Form to the Human Resources Department (see Policy No. 020, Recruitment and
Selection).  The completed form includes all budget and job-related requirements necessary
for Human Resources to prepare the job announcement and properly screen applicant
applications.
♦ The Human Resources Department will then prepare a job announcement listing for the
position(s) and will distribute the document to all County departments.  Current employees
may apply for any posted position by submitting a Klamath County Employment Application to
the Human Resources Department.  Resumes will be accepted as attachments to
applications and, in the case of some positions, may serve as a substitute.   In cases of a
limited internal-only recruitment, applications will be accepted from current County employees
only.
♦ When a current County employee is selected to fill a posted vacancy, the two departments
involved will confer and agree on a suitable transfer date.  Such transfers are expected to
occur within one to three weeks from date of job acceptance.
♦ Applications will be kept on file for 30 days for consideration in the recruitment of similar
positions.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 w/amendments – 11/20/2018– Page 700-1
700. SAFETY AND SECURITY

710. SAFETY POLICY

 PURPOSE
 To promote and encourage safety and security awareness throughout Klamath County; To
provide for a frequent and on-going review of safe work practices; To set clear standards for
employees and supervisory staff members on safety program expectations and operations.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to all employees and departments of Klamath County.

 POLICY
♦ Safety as a Priority:  The Klamath County Board of Commissioners and Human Resources
& Risk Management Department believe that safe working conditions for all employees can
be attained through the use of safety equipment, proper instruction or training, frequent review
of safe work practices, and adequate supervision.

♦ Employee Safety Committee:  Klamath County is required by law to have an active
Employee Safety Committee.  The Employee Safety Committee membership is to consist of
at least one representative from each County department.  The purpose of the Committee
includes, but is not limited to, the review of safety issues, the performance of department
safety inspections, and to review and implement recommendations regarding safe working
conditions within Klamath County.

♦ Safety, Who's Job Is It?  The responsibility for employee safety within Klamath County rests
with all County employees, including supervisors, safety committee representatives,
department heads and elected officials.  This responsibility includes, but is not limited to:

Development and maintenance of safe working conditions and practices:  All County
employees are directed to participate in the County’s safety program by monitoring work
practices and conditions for improvement.  In addition, employees may be required to
attend safety training programs and demonstrate continually safe work practices.  All
arduous or unsafe work conditions and/or practices must be reported to a supervisor or
risk management representative immediately.  Failure to follow safe work practices or
demonstrate a commitment to safety may result in corrective or disciplinary action.

All supervisory staff, including department heads, are responsible for the following:  (1)
ensure that every employee is instructed in safe work practices prior to the assignment of
job duties; (2) maintain a site-specific hazard communication program and associated
training for all employees; and (3) eliminate and/or report all unsafe working conditions
and on-the-job injuries immediately, no matter how minor the incident.

 Expectation of employees to work safely:  All employees of Klamath County are required
to comply with all safety policies and practices.  Accidents that result due to employee
negligence or failure to follow established safety standards or rules shall be subject to
disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment.

 Safety Tip:  Even when using a cellular phone with a hands-free device in the car, always pull off
of the road to a safe area and complete your conversation.  Many vehicle accidents occur when
drivers are distracted while using cellular phones.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 700-2
711. ACCIDENT & INJURY REPORTING (Amended Effective 02-25-2014)

 PURPOSE
 To protect the safety and health of all Klamath County employees and to comply with applicable
federal and state laws.

 SCOPE
This policy applies to all employees and departments of Klamath County.

 POLICY
 Job-related accidents, injuries and illnesses, regardless of their severity, must be reported
immediately to a supervisor, department head or the Human Resources & Risk Management
Department.  This will allow Klamath County to provide a prompt and trained evaluation,
necessary medical attention, and ensure cost control of Workers’ Compensation and liability
expenses.

 PROCEDURE
♦ Accident Prevention as a First Priority
Safety is everyone’s responsibility.  Employees should report any unsafe conditions or
circumstances to their supervisor, department head, safety committee representative or risk
management representative with the goal of preventing accidents.  These reports can be
made in person, via the County's website at www.klamathcounty.org
, or confidentially by
completing a Record of Hazard Observed form (KCHR #36).

♦ Timely Reporting and Investigation of all Accidents
Job-related injuries or illnesses must be reported to the Human Resources & Risk
Management Department within 48 hours of their occurrence.  Accidents resulting in
hospitalization or death, must be reported immediately to (541) 883-4296 or (541) 281-1986.

Any employee who is injured or becomes ill due to work-related circumstances should report
the incident to their supervisor or department head within 48 hours of the incident.  The
required paperwork includes a Klamath County Injury Report Form (KCHR  #8).  A copy of
this form is included in the forms section of this policy manual and is also available on the
County’s website at www.klamathcounty.org.  No matter how simple or minor an employee
injury may be, every event should be documented on this form for both the employee's
protection and for the County's record keeping.

If medical care other than basic first aid is provided (i.e. hospitalization, emergency room,
physician's clinic or urgent care center), then both a Klamath County Injury Report Form
(KCHR  #8) and a State of Oregon Workers’ Compensation Claim Form 801 are required
(Form 801 is available from the Human Resources & Risk Management Department or  on
the County’s website at www.klamathcounty.org).  These forms should be forwarded to
Human Resources & Risk Management within 48 hours of the incident.

Any hospitalization or death must be reported to the Director of Human Resources & Risk
Management, or his/her designee, immediately in order to comply with both federal and state
Occupational Safety & Health Act (OSHA) standards. OSHA must be notified within 8 hours of
a job fatality or catastrophe and within 24 hours of an accident requiring overnight
hospitalization.  In the event the hospitalization or death occurs after normal office hours or
during a weekend or holiday period, the following individuals should be notified in the order
listed below:

First Contact:  Risk Manager
Home/Cellular:  (541) 281-1986

Second Contact: Director of Human Resources & Risk Management
   Home/Cellular: (731) 445-1154

Third Contact: Human Resources Manager
   Home/Cellular: (541) 591-8712

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 700-3
Fourth Contact:  Oregon OSHA
   Telephone number:  800-922-2689 or 800-452-0311

♦ Time Loss and Medical Visits
Time Loss Payments.  When an employee is off work due to an injury or accident and they
qualify for time loss payments, the employee will not be compensated by the County any leave
time.  The time loss payments will be made by our Workers’ Compensation Insurer directly to
the employee for the employee’s lost wages.

Medical Visits.  The employee will be compensated for their work hours by the County on the
first day of their injury.  Once an employee is released back to work time loss payments will
cease.  Time off for all follow-up medical appointments are the employee’s responsibility and
the employee may use sick leave or other accrued leave if they cannot make other
arrangements with their supervisor.

♦ Benefits
Employees that are off work and are receiving time loss payments are responsible for paying
all of their employee deductions.  If the employee fails to make timely payment of any
premium contribution owing, the County shall notify the worker of impending cancellation of
health insurance or other benefits and provide the employee with 30 days to pay the required
premium prior to canceling the policy.

Employees that are receiving time loss payments usually qualify for Family Medical Leave
and must submit the appropriate certification to be eligible for Family Medical Leave.  While
an employee is on Family Medical Leave Klamath County will continue to pay its portion of the
health insurance premiums and the employee must continue to pay his/her share of the
premium.  Failure of the employee to pay his/her share of the health insurance premium may
result in loss of coverage.  If the employee does not return to work after the expiration of the
leave, the employee will be required to reimburse the County for payment of health insurance
premiums during the FMLA leave, unless the employee does not return because of the
presence of a serious health condition which prevents the employee from performing his/her
job, or circumstances beyond the control of the employee.

Once an employee exhausts their Family Medical Leave, the employee is responsible for
paying for their premium.  The employee shall contact the Payroll Manager to obtain the
amount due, which shall be paid directly to Klamath County.  If upon return from a leave the
employee did not pay the required premiums, Klamath County may deduct the amount from
the employee’s future paychecks.

712.  BUILDING SECURITY & EMPLOYEE SAFETY

 PURPOSE
To provide a continually accountable manner for the issuance of keys, security codes,
identification or key cards, and other means of building access or use.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to all departments of Klamath County and building occupants of all County-
owned or operated facilities.

POLICY & PROCEDURE
All building keys, security codes, identification cards (ID Cards), and key cards will be coordinated
through the County's Human Resources & Risk Management Department and the Maintenance
Department unless that responsibility is designated to an individual department.  All database or
information systems used in support of these programs shall also be maintained by the Director of
Human Resources & Risk Management or his/her designee.

♦ New Requests or Changes:  Requests for such items shall be made in writing to the Director
of Human Resources by a department head or other authorized management representative.
In order to maintain a system of checks and balances, all such requests are subject to initial
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 700-4
approval by the Director of Human Resources and Director of Maintenance, with final
approval to be granted by the Board of County Commissioners.

♦ Documentation:  Once a request is received and accepted, the receiving employee shall be
expected to come to the Human Resources Department in person (located at Government
Center 216, 305 Main Street) to obtain the requested items.  Normally, a request should be
made at least 48 hours in advance of need.  Prior to release of keys, security codes,
Identification Cards (ID), key cards, or other County-owned property, a Klamath County
Property & Key Control Form shall be completed and signed by the employee and a human
resources representative.  All property control information is maintained in the Human
Resource (HRIS) database and employee personnel file.

♦ Identification (ID) Cards:  All Klamath County employees shall be issued a photo
identification badge.  This badge is to be normally worn in a visible location during normal
business hours.  The intent of such identification is to clearly indicate those individuals who
are authorized to be in the work areas of Klamath County's facilities.  Identification cards shall
be issued by the Human Resources Department.

♦ Parking Space Assignments: Parking spaces are assigned to employees working at the
County's downtown campus.  Human Resources and Risk Management will assign the
parking spaces, unless the responsibility is designated to an individual department.
Employees are expected to park in their assigned parking space in order to provide adequate
parking for the public.  If an employee requires a temporary change in their parking
assignment, it must be approved in advance with their supervisor.

If an employee does not park in their designated parking space it may result in their vehicle
being towed from the lot.  Should this occur, Klamath County assumes no liability for towing
costs nor for any damage which may occur to that vehicle.  Klamath County also does not
assume the general liability or responsibility for the loss of or damage to any vehicle while
parked at our offices.

♦ Safety First Reminder:  Remember to always be safe.  As winter approaches slippery
streets and sidewalks demand that you be careful when walking to and from your parking
space.  Also, consider walking with a co-worker during early morning or late evening hours.
Safety is a priority -- if you spot an unsafe condition, contact the Human Resources or Risk
Management at (541) 883-4296.

♦ Return of Items/Property:  All keys, security codes, computer and phone/voicemail
passwords, identification and/or key cards must be surrendered upon resignation, lay-off,
termination of employment, or other extended work absence.  Failure to return such items will
result in a replacement charge taken from the employee's final paycheck, or a replacement
charge made to the employee's department budget.
713. AUTOMATED EXTERNAL DEFIBRILLATORS (AED)/PUBLIC ACCESS DEFIBRILLATION
(PAD)

PURPOSE
Cardiovascular disease is the single greatest cause of death in the United States. Nearly half of
those deaths are due to Sudden Cardiac Arrest (SCA) in out of hospital settings, including the
workplace.  Prompt application of Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) and Automated External
Defibrillation (AED) provide victims of SCA with the greatest chance of survival.  Therefore the
County will provide AED machines where designated for public access.

 SCOPE
This policy applies to all County owned buildings that are 50,000 square feet or more and where
at least 25 individuals congregate on a normal business day in accordance with SB 556.  The
Board of County Commissioners (BOCC) may designate AED machine placement in any other
County building.

 POLICY & PROCEDURE
The Risk Management Department shall be responsible for the overall supervision of the AED
program in all County buildings where the BOCC has authorized placement.   Risk Management
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 700-5
will provide AED and CPR/First Aid instruction, materials, and adequate resources for the training
and maintenance of AED machines.

AED Liaison.  An AED Liaison person will be appointed by the BOCC for each County building
designated with an AED machine.  This person shall:

♦ Be responsible for the onsite supervision and security of the AED machine and recommend a
location where the AED machine is clearly identified and can be quickly retrieved during
regular business hours. If the location of the AED machine is moved the Liaison person will
notify all employees in the building and the Risk Management Department.

♦ Complete the required training for the AED program and ensure that a sufficient number of
employees receive training.  A reasonable effort will be made to have at least one trained
employee present at the site during regular business hours.

♦ Be responsible for the maintenance and inspection of the AED machine in accordance with
the guidelines set forth by the AED manufacturer.

♦ Be responsible for completing the Public Use AED Event Information form.

AED Program.  County employees who wish to voluntarily participate will submit their request to
the appropriate AED Liaison or Risk Management.  The County employee shall:

♦ Attend initial orientation provided by the Risk Management Department.

♦ Complete a County approved CPR/AED training course.

♦ Keep their CPR/AED training current to national standards.

♦ Provide the AED Liaison person with documentation of CPR/AED course completion.

 POST INCIDENT PROCEDURES
♦ All activities regarding the AED/PAD will be fully documented, including those cases where
the unit is activated but a “no shock advised” message is given, on a Public Use AED Event
Information form.

♦ The AED Liaison person is responsible for completing the report and submitting it to Risk
Management with requests for any supplies that may need to be replaced.

 LIABILITY FOR USE OF AUTOMATED EXTERNAL DEFIBRILLATORS
In accordance with the Good Samaritan laws no County employee will be held liable for operating
an AED machine as long as the employee has followed proper procedures as outlined in this
policy and the Oregon Revised Statute 30.802.
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 700-6
Public Use AED Event Information
Please fill out the following information and forward it to the receiving hospital with the patient.

Event Date: ______ / ______ / ______   Time: ________________________
Patient Name (if known): _________________________________________________________
Rescuer Name: _________________________________________________________________
Rescuer Address: _______________________________________________________________
Rescuer Phone: (______) ________ - _______________
Please circle the correct answer:
Was CPR performed by a by-stander
prior to EMS arrival? YES NO UNKNOWN
Did someone witness the patient go
unconscious or arrest? YES NO UNKNOWN
Was shock indicated? YES NO UNKNOWN
Did the rescuer administer any shocks? YES NO UNKNOWN

What was the number of shocks delivered, if any? ________________________
Transporting Agency: ____________________________________________________________
Run #: ________________________________________________________________________
AED Manufacturer and Model: ____________________________________________________
Public Use AED Agency:
__________________________________________________________

Form completed by: ____________________________________________________________
Signature: ______________________________________         Date: ______ / ______ / ______

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 700-7
714. WORKPLACE VIOLENCE (Adopted Effective 12-01-2012)

 PURPOSE
 To recognize the importance of a safe workplace for employees, members, customers, vendors,
contractors, and the general public.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to all Klamath County employees.

 POLICY
♦ A work environment that is safe and comfortable enhances employee satisfaction as well as
productivity.  Therefore, threats and acts of violence made by an employee or member of the
public against another person’s life, health, well-being, family, or property will be dealt with in a
zero tolerance manner by Klamath County.

♦ Should situations occur which present a risk of harm to employees and others, all employees
have an obligation to report any incidents that pose a risk of harm to employees or others
associate with Klamath County or which threaten the safety, security or financial interest of
our organization.  Employees should make such report directly to their Supervisor,
Department Head or Human Resources department.

♦ All information related to the reports, including the name of the reporting employees, will be
kept as confidential as possible under the circumstances.  The supervisor, department head
Human Resources Director or their designee will notify the reporting employee of any action it
takes in response to the report.

♦ Klamath County may conduct an investigation of a current employee where the employee’s
behavior raises concerns about work performance, reliability, honesty, or potentially threatens
the safety of co-workers or others.  An employee investigation may include investigation of
criminal records; it may also include a search of desks, work areas, file cabinets, voice mail
systems and computer systems.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 & (w/amendments -11/20//2018) – Page 800-1
800.  TRAVEL & VEHICLE USE

810. TRAVEL POLICY (Amended Effective 08-01-2017)

 PURPOSE
 Provide a method to reimburse travel and training expenses incurred by Klamath County
employees while traveling on official County business; provide a mechanism to monitor
expenditures for travel and training against budgeted amounts; and ensure that training
opportunities are used.

 SCOPE
 All employees of Klamath County who engage in any approved travel and training, including local
seminars, conferences and educational programs.

 RESPONSIBILITY
 Establishment and administration of this policy is the responsibility of the Board of County
Commissioners (BOCC).  Each department head is responsible for ensuring that employees, prior
to departure on their first trip, review this policy and the Vehicle Use Policy 811 to understand its
intent and requirements.  Employees are expected to incur only costs that are reasonable in view
of their official duty status.

 POLICY
♦ Travel Authorization:  All travel and training requires prior notification to the appropriate
department head.  Travel and training by department heads requires advance notification to
BOCC (bocc@klamathcounty.org).  Upon completion of travel, expenses must be submitted
and approved in writing on the travel form by the Liaison Commissioner.

Transportation shall be the most economical in terms of direct cost to the County and the
employee’s time away from their duty station.  All commercial air travel shall be by the least
expensive service available.  Trips shall be scheduled to avoid unnecessary backtracking or
overlapping, and, when possible, scheduled in advance to take advantage of discounts.
When common carrier fare savings can be achieved by leaving a day earlier or staying a day
longer, the County will pay the extra day of meals and lodging, if the extra day of meals and
lodging provides an overall savings to the County.  Whenever possible, County vehicles
should
be used for travel instead of personal vehicles to assist in cost control.

♦ Accountable Plan: Klamath County reimburses expenses under the terms of an accountable
plan. An accountable plan assumes the following criteria have been met:
• All expenses were incurred while on official county business;
• Expenses must be adequately accounted for in a reasonable timeframe;
• All excess payments or advances must be returned in a reasonable timeframe.

♦ Travel Reimbursements: Employees will generally be reimbursed for allowable expenditures
after returning from travel and training. Employees are to complete a travel reimbursement
form within ten (10) working days after returning from a trip. Original receipts are required for
lodging and common carrier fares. Receipts should be obtained whenever possible for
incidental costs. Reimbursement requests will be processed through payroll. Reimbursements
will be processed on the next payroll cycle after all approvals are obtained. Check with
Finance on payroll timesheet due dates.

♦ Lodging:  As a guideline, the cost of lodging will be reimbursed up to the maximum amount
for the location listed in the U.S. General Services guidelines; however, Klamath County
employees should always present their employee identification card to insure that the
“government rate” is obtained for all lodging.  Employees attending conferences or training
sessions held in a hotel or motel will be authorized to stay at the same or nearby location with
prior approval from their Department Head, even if the expense exceeds the authorized
guidelines, so long as the rates are deemed reasonable, given the area and purpose.
Department heads are urged to exercise prudent management to ensure that the best lodging
values are obtained.  Lowest rates will be utilized at all times. It is recommended that any
lodging expense be charged to a county card or paid to the vendor, not the employee.
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 800-2
Department heads may exercise discretion in determining whether use of county credit cards
or personal credit cards (followed by reimbursement) is most appropriate and efficient for their
departments.  Receipts shall be required for all lodging. Employees are not to charge items of
a personal nature to the lodging bill (including but not limited to meals, videos, etc.). If a
reimbursement to an employee is required, the reimbursement is not included in wages for
the purpose of calculating retirement benefits and is not taxable to the employee.

♦ Meals:  One (1) maximum daily meal reimbursement will be granted for each 24-hour period
of travel.  Prior approval must be granted to exceed the maximum daily meal reimbursement.
A maximum daily meal reimbursement rate is established and made a part of this Policy as
Addendum 810-A.  Meals will be reimbursed according to the federal per diem rates in effect
for that area (see GSA website, Human Resources or Finance to obtain current rates) or
actual expenses incurred by the employee at the department head’s discretion.  Meals will not
be reimbursed beyond the per diem rate unless the meal is a banquet or under special
circumstances.  A written explanation shall be provided to the department head and noted on
the travel reimbursement form if an exception is required.  Meal reimbursements should be
reduced for meals provided by the conference or event sponsor.  Complimentary meals
provided by a hotel/motel or common carrier do not affect the per diem meal allowance.
Exceptions may be allowed in unusual circumstances with prior approval of the department’s
BOCC liaison. For meal reimbursements that require overnight travel, the meal
reimbursement is not included in wages for the purpose of calculating retirement benefits and
is not taxable to the employee.

For travel of less than 24 hours where no overnight stay is required and with department head
approval, reimbursement will be granted at the employee’s discretion and counted as wages
for meals in which the employee is in a travel status in accordance with the guidelines set
forth in Addendum 810-A.  Receipts generally will be required, meals will not be reimbursed
beyond the per diem rate and not paid in advance of travel.  Exceptions to these guidelines
include meals that are considered a qualifying business meal (business is conducted during
the meal), are associated with a trade or professional association meetings, or are infrequent.
Anyone who receives a reimbursement or the meal is paid for by the County in some other
fashion, under this category more than five times in a calendar quarter is required to submit a
travel reimbursement form listing such meals on the last work day of the quarter. This
reimbursement is not included as wages for the purpose of calculating retirement benefits;
however, it shall be taxed and included as wages, in Box 1 of the employee’s W-2 form.

♦ Transportation Costs: Reimbursement of allowable transportation expenses include the
costs of all necessary official county business travel on common carriers (railroads, airliners,
buses, etc.), personal vehicles and private aircraft.

Common Carrier Fares:  Actual fares paid for air, bus and train transportation will be
reimbursed with original receipts.  Only coach or similar fare will be allowed.  First-class will
not be allowed. It is recommended that any common carrier expense be charged to a county
card or paid to the vendor, not the employee.  Department heads may exercise discretion in
determining whether use of county credit cards or personal credit cards (followed by
reimbursement) is most appropriate and efficient for their departments.  Generally if a
reimbursement to an employee is required, the reimbursement is not included in wages for
the purpose of calculating retirement benefits and is not taxable to the employee. Employees
should be aware that there may be personal tax consequences if a common carrier fares is
purchased in their name and the employee is subsequently not able to use it or if the fare
cannot be transferred to another county employee for use on official county business.

Personal Vehicle:  Personal vehicles may be used for County business related travel with the
approval of the Department Head, subject to the Vehicle Use Policy 811.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 800-3
Mileage Reimbursement for Personal Vehicles:  Mileage reimbursement shall be paid for
County business-related travel from the employee’s official work station or official residence to
their temporary work station and back to the employee’s official work station or official
residence. Daily commute expenses between the traveler’s official residence and official work
station or personal trips while traveling on County business are a personal obligation of the
traveler and are not reimbursable by the County. Each department head shall be responsible
for the accuracy of mileage reimbursement claims submitted for their department. The
mileage reimbursement is not included in wages for the purpose of calculating retirement
benefits and is not taxable to the employee.

The authorized use of personal vehicles is usually reimbursed at the statutory rate allowed by
the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).  The IRS effective date will also serve as Klamath
County’s effective date.  The current mileage reimbursement rate will be distributed to the
department heads by Finance.  Finance will update the travel form as appropriate and make it
available to County departments.  Mileage shall be paid based on the Oregon Department of
Transportation (ODOT) mileage table (see Human Resources or Finance for current rates) for
all locations within the State of Oregon.

Gasoline purchased by Klamath County may not be used to fuel personal vehicles.  In the
case of personal vehicle use, employees should be paid mileage reimbursement at the
current rate.

Private Aircraft:  Effective June 1, 2013, employee-owned or rented aircraft may be used for
County business related travel with the approval of the Department Head, subject to the
Vehicle Use Policy 811.  Use of an employee-owned or rented aircraft will normally be
restricted to in state flights, unless approved in advance.

Mileage Reimbursement for Private Aircraft:  Mileage reimbursement shall be paid for
County business-related travel from the airport of origination to the airport of destination(s)
and back to the airport of origination. Each department head shall be responsible for the
accuracy of mileage reimbursement claims submitted for their department. The mileage
reimbursement is not included in wages for the purpose of calculating retirement benefits and
is not taxable to the employee.

The authorized use of employee-owned or rented aircraft is usually reimbursed at the U.S.
General Service Rate.  However, due to budgetary constraints the Board of County
Commissioners in coordination with the County Budget Officer may implement a freeze or
adopt a lesser reimbursement amount.  Mileage shall be paid based on the Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA) mileage table (see Human Resources or Finance for current rates) for
all locations within the State of Oregon.

♦ Incidental Expenses:  Amounts paid for expenses such as taxis, car rental (if prior approved
by the department head), parking, business telephone calls, fees, etc. are reimbursable.
Receipts should be obtained whenever possible. It is recommended that any incidental
expenses be charged to a county card or paid to the vendor, not the employee.  Department
heads may exercise discretion in determining whether use of county credit cards or personal
credit cards (followed by reimbursement) is most appropriate and efficient for their
departments.  The incidental expense reimbursement is not included in wages for the purpose
of calculating retirement benefits and is not taxable to the employee.

Incidental expenses without receipts will be allowed up to a maximum of $2.00 per day.

One personal long distance phone call up to three (3) minutes in length is permitted each day.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 800-4
♦ Travel Advances:  To receive a travel advance, the employee must complete a travel
reimbursement form with reasonably estimated allowable expenditures and attach a
memorandum that explains how the delay in waiting to be reimbursed places and undue
hardship on the employee. If a travel advance is granted, employees will generally be eligible
to receive up to seventy five percent (75%) of the estimated reimbursement.  Requests must
be submitted for processing on the proper form at least ten (10) days prior to travel.
Department heads shall be responsible for approving the travel advance, the timely
submission of requests to Finance for processing, and for the timely distribution of advances
to the employee performing the travel.  No travel advance will be made for less than $125.00.

All travel advances must be settled within ten (10) working days after returning from a trip.
The employee is to complete a travel claim form, showing the amount previously advanced.  If
the claim is greater than the advance, the additional amount due to the employee will be
processed on the next payroll cycle after submission of the form.  If the advance is larger than
the actual claim, the employee will be required to immediately remit the balance due to the
County.

Outstanding travel advances will be reviewed after ten (10) working days.  Department Heads
are responsible for obtaining expense reimbursement forms from employees and obtaining
any amounts due from an employee. Employees who do not remit overpayments back to the
County are subject to employee disciplinary procedures. Employees who have not reconciled
the funds and/or remitted any overpayments will be notified that the amount of the outstanding
advance will be added to their wages as taxable income.

♦ Special Check Requests:  A request for a special travel-related check carries a $20.00 fee.
This fee is charged by Finance to defray the associated costs of preparing the check outside
of the normal cycle.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 800-5
 ADDENDUM 810-A

Current meal, mileage and lodging rates. (EFFECTIVE  01/01/2014)

Meal Per-Diem (per 24-hour period):   Current Federal Government
               Per Diem Rate

Mileage Rate:  (Vehicle)                         Current U.S. General Services
Rate
    (Private Aircraft)    Current U.S. General Services Rate

Lodging Per-Diem:                          Current Federal Government
Be sure to use your Klamath County Identification                 Per Diem Rate
Card to insure you receive the Government Rate.

Meal Per-Diem (for periods extending less than 24-hours):
  Per-Diem may not be claimed when meals are   Meal Percentages
  provided at the hotel, meeting, or conference   (with or without receipt)

Breakfast
Morning allowance if in continuous travel status for more
than three (3) hours between 12:01 a.m. & 10:00 a.m.  20%

Lunch
Mid-day allowance, if in continuous
travel status for more than three (3)
hours between 10:01 a.m. & 3:00 p.m.    29%

Dinner
Evening allowance, if in continuous travel status
for more than three (3) hours between 3:01 p.m.
and midnight, except that evening allowance will
not be allowed if the employee should have arrived
back at duty station by 6:00 p.m.     51%

Maximum daily meal reimbursements, as stated herein, are representative of the maximum
allowable for any meal or series of meals.  All County employees are encouraged to make
efforts to minimize expenses whenever possible.

For the Current Federal Government Per Diem Rates, please visit the U.S. General Services
Administration on-line at:  www.gsa.gov for the domestic per diem rates) if neither the city nor
the county is listed in the per diem table, the lodging rate and meal per diem will be paid at  the
current Standard Rate.

Quick-Reference Mileage Guide
   Klamath Falls to:
        Albany 213
        Ashland 64
        Astoria 364
        Baker City 383
        Bend 137
        Burns 235
Coos Bay 245
Corvallis 213
Eugene 173/Springfield 170
Florence 234
Forest Grove 285
Grants Pass 104
Gresham 282
La Grande 408
McMinnville 259
Medford 76
Newberg 263
Newport 265
Ontario 365
Pendleton 378
Portland 279
Redmond 153
Roseburg 171
Salem 234
The Dalles 268
Tillamook 303

Cities not appearing below may be located within a county for which rates are listed. To determine what county a city is located in,
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 800-6
visit the National Association of Counties (NACO) website (a non-federal website).
NOTE: If neither the city nor the county is listed, the Standard Rate  for lodging and meals and incidental expenses (M&IE) shall
apply.  Please visit www.gsa.gov, for the current rates (below rates as of 01-01-2014).
State Tax Rates & Exemption Forms
Properties at Per Diem (FedRooms)

Ashland / Crater Lake  Jackson / Klamath  83    46   129 34.50
Beaverton  Washington   106   51   157 38.25
Bend   Deschutes  89   61   150 45.75
Bend
(July 1 - August 31)
Deschutes   107   61   168 45.75

Clackamas  Clackamas  90   61   151 45.75
Eugene / Florence  Lane   94   51   145 38.25
Lincoln City   Lincoln  94   56   150 42.00
Lincoln City
(July 1 - August 31)
Lincoln    121   56   177 42.00

Portland  Multnomah    126   66   192 49.50
Seaside   Clatsop  96   51   147 38.25
Seaside
(July 1 - August 31)
Clatsop    138   51   189 38.25

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 800-7
811. VEHICLE USE POLICY (Amended Effective 10-01-2015)

PURPOSE
To provide guidelines for vehicle use while on County business.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to all employees and departments of Klamath County.

 POLICY
♦ Valid Driver's License Required:  Generally, all authorized persons operating a County
vehicle or a personal vehicle while on County business must possess a current, valid driver’s
license.  The County reserves the right to require proof of such license in a manner
determined suitable by the County.

Suspended License:  No employee may operate a County vehicle or operate a personal
vehicle while on County business with a suspended driver’s license.  Any employee who
normally operates a County vehicle or who operates a personal vehicle on County
business shall notify their supervisor immediately if their driver’s license has been
suspended.

Provisional License:  An employee obtaining a provisional license to operate vehicles
while that employee’s normal driver’s license has been suspended, must provide proof of
such provisional license to the Human Resources & Risk Management Department.  The
Director of Human Resources & Risk Management shall determine whether the employee
may operate a County vehicle or operate his/her personal vehicle on County business
under the provisional license.

♦ Valid Pilot’s License Required: The pilot must hold a current federal pilot certificate of
competency, current medical card and have registered with the Oregon Department of
Aviation. Klamath County reserves the right to require proof of the current federal pilot
certificate of competency, medical card and state pilot’s registration.

♦ Use of Personal Vehicles: Operators of personal vehicles on County business must have
full liability insurance (personal injury and property damage) in at least the minimum limits
required under state law. The County reserves the right to require proof of such insurance
in a manner determined suitable by the County.

♦ Operating Expenses: Employees using their personal vehicle on County business will be
reimbursed at the per mile rate as established by the Board of County Commissioners for
such use providing authorization to use their personal vehicle has been approved by the
employee’s department head or his/her designee.

♦ Use of County Vehicles:  Only County employees may operate a County vehicle as
authorized by the employee’s department head.  Persons who are not employed by the
County shall not be allowed to ride in a County vehicle unless it is specifically for the benefit of
Klamath County or as approved by the department head.  County vehicles shall be operated
only in the conduct of County business except in the event of an emergency.  An employee
utilizing a County vehicle in an emergency on non-County business shall notify their
supervisor of such incident as soon as it is reasonably practical.

♦ Commuting with County Vehicles:  For the exclusive benefit of the County, certain Klamath
County employees are authorized to operate a County vehicle for commuting between their
place of residence and their job site.  A listing of positions authorized for such use is attached
to this policy as Addendum 811-A.  In no event shall such vehicle be utilized for personal use
at any time, except as outlined in the section of this policy entitled Use of County Vehicles.  It
shall be the responsibility of the department head to ensure that this policy be strictly adhered
to.

♦ Smoking in County Vehicles:  Smoking in county vehicles is also prohibited.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 800-8
♦ Maintenance of County Vehicle: It shall be the responsibility of the department head to
insure that County vehicles assigned to his/her department are serviced and maintained in
good mechanical condition.

♦ Use of Private Aircraft: Operators of private aircraft on County business must carry their own
insurance coverage. Klamath County does not provide any coverage for any loss or damage
to a private or rental aircraft. Klamath County reserves the right to require proof of insurance
in order for the County to determine if there is adequate coverage for both the employee and
the County.

♦ Safety:  County employees operating a county vehicle or a personal vehicle on County
business shall operate such vehicles in a safe and competent manner and in strict
compliance with all traffic laws and regulations; The driver and all passengers must wear
seatbelts; headlights should be used during all hours for improved safety; and hitchhikers may
not to be picked up under any circumstances.

♦ Cellular Telephone Usage: It is illegal in Oregon for drivers to operate a vehicle while using
a cellular telephone or other device for voice, text, email, PDAs or other electronic messaging.
Exceptions to this law include use in agriculture, public safety or medical personnel or
volunteers.  If the need arises and an employee uses a cellular telephone they are required to
use the hands free feature, while operating a vehicle on county business and/or during county
time.  Employees are not permitted to read or respond to emails or text messages while
operating a motor vehicle on county business and/or on county time.  Employees should plan
calls to allow placement of calls either prior to traveling or while on break time.

♦ Accidents/Vandalism/Theft: An employee involved in an accident while operating a County
vehicle or a personal vehicle on County business must notify his/her supervisor and the
Human Resources & Risk Management Department immediately.  The employee must
complete a Klamath County Incident & Accident Report Form (Form KCHR #9) within 48
hours of the incident.  This form is available on the County’s website at
www.klamathcounty.org
 or from the Human Resources & Risk Management Department.  An
employee operating a personal vehicle on County business is required to use his/her own
insurance to cover accidents, vandalism and theft.

♦ Traffic Violations:  An employee who receives a traffic citation while operating a County
vehicle or while operating a personal vehicle on County business is responsible for all fines,
court costs, etc.  An employee who receives any traffic citation or is in any accident involving
the alleged use of alcohol or other intoxicants or drugs while operating a County vehicle or
while operating a personal vehicle on County business, must notify his/her supervisor and the
Human Resources & Risk Management Department within 48 hours of the incident.

♦ Use of Intoxicants:  No person may operate a vehicle under this Policy if that person has
consumed alcohol or other intoxicants within four (4) hours of the time of operation of said
vehicle.  No person shall operate a vehicle under this Policy if that person’s blood alcohol level
is determined to be .04% or greater.

♦ Risk Management Approval:  At least one time per year, Risk Management shall obtain
records for all County employees operating County vehicles or who operate personal vehicles
on County business.  Risk Management may obtain such a record at any other time that
he/she feels is necessary.

Risk Management shall review each driving record to determine if the County employee
should be allowed to operate a vehicle under this policy.  At a minimum the County requires
an employees’ driving record to be free of any violations for reckless driving, hit and run,
driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, and no more than one moving violation within
a three year period; however, requirements may vary based on the requirements of a position.
If, in the department’s discretion, it is determined that any employee has a driving record
which would potentially cause the County to be at greater risk than normal, the employee and
the Department Head or Elected Official in charge of that employee shall be notified in writing
that the employee is prohibited from operating a vehicle under this Policy.  The employee
and/or his/her Department Head or Elected Official may request an informal meeting with the
Director of Human Resources and Risk Management to discuss why the employee should be
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 800-9
allowed to operate a vehicle under this policy or to determine a course of action or education
which would allow the employee to operate a vehicle under this policy. The Director of Human
Resources and Risk Management shall report his/her decision in writing to the employee and
Department Head or Elected Official.

Any employee or his/her Department Head or Elected Official may, within ten (10) days of the
date of the written decision of the Director of Human Resources and Risk Management,
request a hearing before the Board of County Commissioners regarding that decision.  The
Board of County Commissioners will review the basis for the action and make its
determination, which shall be final.  During the time of the appeal, the employee shall not
operate a vehicle under this policy.

The Human Resources and Risk Management Department shall review the driving records of
an applicant, if driving is to be a requirement of the position to which the applicant is being
considered for employment, prior to such applicant being hired by the County.  The decision
relative to the employment by the County of such applicant shall be final, subject to the appeal
procedure as outlined above.

♦ Violation of Vehicle Policy:  Any violation of this policy or any misrepresentations by an
employee may result in disciplinary action up to and including termination of employment with
Klamath County.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 (w/amendments – 11/20/2018) – Page 800-10
ADDENDUM 811-A

The following Klamath County positions are authorized by the Board of County Commissioners to use a
County vehicle to commute between their place of residence and their job site on a regular basis. The
Board of County Commissioners has the authority to amend this addendum to add or delete positions as
needed or requested by the director of Human Resources.

 ANIMAL CONTROL
 Animal Control Officer
 Assistant Animal Control Officers

 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
 Building Official

 FAIRGROUNDS
 As governed by the Klamath County Fairgrounds Board

 PUBLIC WORKS
 Director - Public Works
 Assistant Director - Public Works
 Road Superintendent
 Road Construction Inspector

 SHERIFF’S OFFICE
 Sheriff
 Lieutenant
 Investigator
 Resident Deputy
 Deputies as Authorized by the Sheriff

 MAINTENANCE
 Director – Maintenance

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 w/amendments – 09/2018– Page 900-1
900.  HIPAA

910. HIPAA POLICY

 PURPOSE
 To establish policies and procedures that ensure Klamath County and its Departments and
employees comply with the requirements set forth by the Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) and applicable Oregon Law.

 SCOPE
 This policy applies to all Klamath County Departments, employees, volunteers, temporary help,
and interns.

 RESPONSIBILITY
Under HIPAA and applicable Oregon law, Klamath County (hereafter, ‘the County’) is defined as a
hybrid entity. Through the County established HIPAA Task Force those Departments considered
Covered Entities (hereafter, covered components’) under HIPAA were identified.  While the
County provides oversight and direction to all its Departments and contracts, the covered
components provide a wide range of services to diverse populations requiring individually crafted
policies and procedures.  Therefore, the County’s broad HIPAA Policies shall be as tailored to fit
specific Department needs. Departments may also craft procedures as necessary to ensure
program staff understanding and compliance.

 POLICY

Specific Responsibilities of Klamath County:

Privacy Officer and Privacy Official 45 CFR 164.530(a)
Klamath County will appoint or designate a privacy officer whose responsibilities are to assure that
each covered component develops and implements policies and procedures based upon the
County’s HIPAA policies.  The privacy officer will work closely with privacy officials within the
covered components, facilitating, as needed, Privacy Team meeting to address
concerns/problems and provide technical assistance to the Board of County Commissioners as
necessary.  The privacy officer is authorized to have direct access and communication with
department directors and their staff.

Business Associate Agreements 45 CFR 164.504(e)
Klamath County covered component shall include HIPAA business associate requirements in all
contracts with business associates whose work involves access to Protected Health Information
(PHI) in any form or medium.  Direct pay vendors who are business associates with access to PHI
will be required to execute written business associate agreements.

Policies and Procedure Requirements 45 CFR 164.530(i)
Klamath County will implement protected health information policies in accordance with HIPAA
requirements and Oregon law.  Each Klamath County covered component will be responsible for
implementing policies and procedures that are reasonably designed to address the scope and
type of activities undertaken by that covered component.

Countywide policies will be adopted by the Board of County Commissioners and maintained by
the Klamath County Privacy Officer.  Under the leadership of the Privacy Officer, the Privacy
Team will periodically review and revise these as needed.  Covered components’ procedures will
be maintained by the Klamath County Privacy Officer. Each covered component’s privacy official
shall maintain a complete set of the covered component’s policy and procedures.  Policies and
procedures shall be maintained in compliance with established county records retention
schedules.

Policies must be updated as necessary to comply with changes in the law.  If a change materially
affects a Notice of Privacy Practices, the Notice will be revised.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 w/amendments – 11/20/2018 – Page 900-2
Notice of Privacy Practices 45 CFR 164.520
Klamath County recognizes an individual’s right to receive adequate notice of the uses and
disclosures of the individual’s protected health information that may be made by Klamath County
and of the individual’s rights and Klamath County’s legal duties with respect to protected health
information.  Covered components will provide each client with a Notice of Privacy Practices.

Review and Resolution of Privacy Complaints  45 CFR 164.530(d)
Each Klamath County covered component will provide a process for individuals to make privacy
complaints concerning compliance with federal privacy regulations (HIPAA) as well as a
procedure to investigate all privacy complaints received.  Covered component’s policy and
procedures will include involvement of the County Privacy Officer and the Privacy Team as
appropriate.

Additional Required Policy and Procedure for Covered Components:

Individual’s Right to Access Protected Health Information  45 CFR 164.524
Klamath County and its covered components recognize the right of an individual to have access to
(i.e. inspect and obtain a copy of) his or her protected health information, which is maintained in
the Designated Record Set for as long as the protected health information is maintained.  An
individual will have a right to access any protected health information in the Designated Record
Set with the following exceptions:

• Psychotherapy notes
• Information compiled in reasonable anticipation of, or for use in, a civil, criminal, or
administrative action or proceeding
•  information that is prohibited for access by the Clinical Laboratory Improvements
Amendments of 1998 (42 USC 263 a)
• information exempt from the Clinical Laboratory Improvements Amendments of 1998 (42 CFR
493.3(a)(2)
• other limitations under federal or state law

Klamath County and its covered components may deny access to individuals under certain
circumstances detailed in the Klamath County covered component’s procedures for this policy.

Individual’s Right to Request Amendment of Protected Health Information  45 CFR 164.526
Klamath County and its covered components recognizes the right of an individual to request that
Klamath County amend protected health information about an individual maintained in its
Designated Record Set for as long as the protected health information is maintained.

Individual’s Right to Request Alternative Communications   45 CFR 164.522(b)
Klamath County and its covered components shall accommodate any reasonable request by an
individual to receive communications of his or her protected health information from Klamath
County by alternative means or at alternative locations.  Klamath County shall determine if such a
request has been approved before contacting the individual.

Individual’s Right to Request Restrictions on Uses and Disclosures  45 CFR 164.522(a)
Klamath County and its covered components recognizes the right of an individual to request that
Klamath County restrict uses or disclosures of the individual’s protected health information to
carry out treatment, payment or health care operations.  Klamath County is not required to agree
to such a restriction; therefore, Klamath County will evaluate such requests in accordance with the
Klamath County covered component’s procedures for this policy.

Disclosing Information to Person’s Involved In Individual’s Care and Individual’s Right to
Restrict Disclosures  45 CFR 164.510(b)
Klamath County and its covered components may under certain circumstances disclose protected
health information to an individual’s family member, other relative, close personal friend, or any
other person involved with the individual’s care or payment of the care unless the individual has
requested a restriction on such disclosures or unless other legal restrictions apply.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 w/amendments – 11/20/2018 – Page 900-3
Klamath County and its covered components may disclose protected health information to notify
or assist in the notification of the individual’s family member, personal representative or other
person responsible for the individual’s care of the individual’s location, general condition or death
unless the individual has requested a restriction on such disclosures.

Klamath County and its covered components may disclose protected health information to
organizations involved in disaster relief efforts, for the purpose of coordinating with such
organizations disclosures of the individual’s location, general condition or death to the individual’s
family member, personal representative or other person responsible for the individual’s care
unless the individual has requested a restriction on such disclosures.

Individual’s Right to an Accounting of Disclosures of Protected Health Information  45 CFR
164.528
Upon the request of the individual or the individual’s personal representative, Klamath County and
its covered components will provide an accounting of all disclosures of protected health
information required by HIPAA.

Confidentiality/Privacy of Protected Health Information  45 CFR 164.502
Klamath County, its covered components, employees, and business associates will respect and
protect the confidentiality and privacy of protected health information.  All individually identifiable
health information in any form is confidential and private.  This includes written, electronic and oral
communications.

Uses and Disclosures of Protected Health Information Not Requiring the Individual’s
Authorization  45 CFR 164.512
Klamath County and its covered components may use and disclose protected health information
without the individual’s authorization if permitted under the HIPAA Privacy Rule and Oregon and
other federal laws as detailed in the Klamath County covered component’s procedures for this
policy.

Authorization for Uses and Disclosures of Protected Health Information 45 CFR 164.508
If an authorization is required under federal or state law, each covered component shall use an
authorization containing the elements specified under federal and state law.  A single
authorization form may be used if it contains the elements of all applicable state and federal laws.

Minimum Necessary  45 CFR 164.502 and 164.514(d)
Klamath County and its covered components, when using, disclosing or requesting protected
health information, shall make reasonable efforts to limit the protected health information to the
minimum necessary to accomplish the intended purpose of the use, disclosure or request with the
following exceptions:

• Disclosures to or requests by a health care provider for treatment
• Disclosures made to the individual about his or her own protected health information
• Uses or disclosures authorized by the individual
• Disclosures made to the Secretary of Health and Human Services in accordance with the
HIPAA Privacy Rule
• Uses or disclosures that are required by law
• Uses or disclosures that are required for compliance with the HIPAA Transaction Rule

Safeguarding of Protected Health Information  45 CFR 164.530(c)
Klamath County and its covered components reasonably safeguards protected health information
in order to limit its incidental uses or disclosures.  An incidental use or disclosure is a secondary
use or disclosure that cannot reasonably be prevented, is limited in nature, and occurs as a by-
product of an otherwise permitted use or disclosure.

Each member of Klamath County’s workforce shall use due care in limiting incidental disclosures
as much as is reasonably practicable and to use caution and common sense when handling
protected health information.

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 w/amendments – 11/20/2018 – Page 900-4
Training of Workforce with Respect to Protected Health Information  45 CFR 164.530 (b)
Klamath County and its covered components shall train employees and other members of its
workforce concerning Klamath County’s policies and procedures regarding the privacy of
protected health information, as necessary and appropriate for the workforce member to carry out
his or her specific job functions.

Mitigation of Improper Disclosures  45 CFR 164.530(f)
Klamath County and its covered components shall mitigate, to the extent practicable, any harmful
effect that is known by Klamath County to have occurred as a result of a use or disclosure of
protected health information in violation of the requirement of the HIPAA Privacy Rule or Klamath
County’s policies and procedures by either Klamath County or its business associates.

Designated Record Set  45 CFR 164.501
Each covered component of Klamath County shall retain the designated record set for the health
care component.  The designated record set shall include the following when used by the covered
component:

• The medical records and billing records about individuals maintained by or for a covered
health care provider
• The enrollment, payment, claims adjudication, and case or medical management record
systems maintained by or for a health plan
• Records used, in whole or in part, by or for the covered component to make decisions about
individuals

Disclosures of De-Identified Health Information  45 CFR 164.514
Klamath County may use or disclose de-identified health information without obtaining an
individual’s authorization.  However, Klamath County shall not use or disclose de-identified health
information about genetic testing unless Klamath County notified the individual when the genetic
test information was obtained of the individual’s right to object to the use or disclosure of de-
identified genetic test information.[See ORS 192.537(2)(a)]
De-identified health information is health information that does not identify an individual and with
which there is no reasonable basis to believe that the information can be used to identify an
individual.  Health information shall be considered de-identified only if one of the two de-
identification procedures in 45 CFR 514(b) is followed.

Retention of Protected Health Information 45 CFR 164.530(j)
Klamath County and its covered components shall retain records containing protected health
information in compliance with federal and state laws and retention schedules.  Records included
in the Designated Record Set are maintained for a minimum of six (6) years.

Transition Provisions/Effect of Authorizations Obtained Prior to 4/14/03 45 CFR 154.532
Klamath County and its covered components may use a release, consent or authorization to use
or disclose protected health information signed prior to April 14, 2003 for protected health
information received prior to April 14, 2003.  For protected health information received or created
after April 14, 2003, an authorization meeting HIPAA requirements is necessary.

If an individual’s protected health information is being lawfully used or disclosed for research
purposes prior to April 14, 2003, a new authorization is not required to complete the research after
April 14, 2003.  An individual’s protected health information is considered lawfully used or
disclosed if the individual has expressly authorized or consented to its use or has given informed
consent to participate in the research, or if an institutional review board has waived the informed
consent requirements.  All research initiated after April 14, 2003 must comply with HIPAA
research requirements.

Uses and Disclosures of Psychotherapy Notes   45 CFR 164.508(a) and 164.524(a)
Klamath County and its covered components maintain the confidentiality of an individual’s
psychotherapy notes in accordance with HIPAA requirements.   Klamath County shall not use or
disclose psychotherapy notes without obtaining the individual’s authorization or as described in
the Klamath County covered component’s procedures.  Klamath County may limit an individual’s
access to psychotherapy notes only as permitted under HIPAA or state law.
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 w/amendments – 11/20/2018 – Page 900-5
Uses and Disclosures of Protected Health Information Created for Research 45CFR
164.512(i)
Klamath County and its covered components may use or disclose protected health information for
research if it obtains the individual’s authorization for use or disclosure of protected health
information or obtains a waiver of the authorization requirements from an Institutional Review
Board or Privacy Board per the Common Rule (45 CFR 46.107).

Limited Data Set 45 CFR 164.514(e)
Klamath County and its covered components may use or disclose a limited data set for research,
public health or health care operations purposes if Klamath County enters into a data use
agreement with the limited data set recipient.  A limited data set is protected health information
that excludes the following direct identifiers of the individual or of relatives, employers, or
household members of the individual:

• Names
• Postal address information, other than town or city, state, and zip code
• Telephone numbers
• Fax numbers
• Electronic mail addresses
• Social security numbers
• Medical record numbers
• Health plan beneficiary numbers
• Account numbers
• Certificate/license numbers
• Vehicle identifiers and serial numbers, including license plate numbers
• Device identifiers and serial numbers
• Web Universal Resource Locations (URLs)
• Internet Protocol (IP) address numbers
• Biometric identifiers, including finger and voice prints
• Full face photographic images and any comparable images

911. ENFORCEMENT, SANCTIONS, AND PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS OF INDIVIDUAL
 PRIVACY

 PURPOSE
The intent of this policy is to specify enforcement, sanction, penalty, and disciplinary actions that
may result from violation of Klamath County policies regarding the privacy and protection of an
individual’s information and to offer guidelines on how to conform to the required standards.

SCOPE
 This policy applies to all Klamath County Departments, employees, volunteers, temporary help,
and interns.

POLICY
All employees, volunteers, temporary help, interns and members of the Klamath County workforce
must guard against improper uses or disclosures of a Klamath County client or participant’s
information.  Klamath County employees, temporary help, volunteers, interns and members of the
Klamath County workforce who are uncertain if a disclosure is permitted are advised to consult
with a supervisor in the Klamath County workplace.  The Klamath County Privacy Officer is a
resource for any Klamath County workplace that cannot resolve a disclosure question, and may
be consulted in accordance with the operational procedures of that Klamath County workplace.
All employees are required to be aware of their responsibilities under Klamath County privacy
policies.  Klamath County employees will be expected to sign an acknowledgement of
understanding indicating that they have been informed of the business practices in Klamath
County as it relates to Privacy, and they understand their responsibilities to ensure the Privacy of
Klamath County clients and participants.  Supervisors are responsible for ensuring that employees
who have access to confidential information, whether it be electronic, hard copy, or orally, are
informed of their responsibilities.  Klamath County employees who violate Klamath County policies
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 w/amendments – 11/20/2018 – Page 900-6
and procedures regarding the safeguarding of an individual’s information are subject to
disciplinary action by Klamath County up to and including immediate dismissal from employment,
and legal action by the individual.  Klamath County employees who knowingly and willfully violate
state or federal law for improper use or disclosure of an individual’s information are subject to
criminal investigation and prosecution or civil monetary penalties.  If Klamath County fails to
enforce privacy safeguards, Klamath County as a government agency may be subject to
administrative penalties by the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS), including
federal funding penalties.

Retaliation Prohibited
Neither Klamath County as an entity nor any Klamath County employee will intimidate, threaten,
coerce, discriminate against, or take any other form of retaliatory action against:

Any individual for exercising any right established under Klamath County policy, or for participating
in any process established under Klamath County policy, including the filing of a complaint with
Klamath County or with DHHS.  Any individual or other person for:

A. Filing of a complaint with Klamath County or with DHHS as provided in Klamath County
privacy policies;
B. Testifying, assisting, or participating in an investigation, compliance review, proceeding, or
hearing relating to Klamath County policy and procedures; or
C. Opposing any unlawful act or practice, provided that:

1. The individual or other person (including a Klamath County employee) has a
good  faith belief that the act or practice being opposed is unlawful; and
2. The manner of such opposition is reasonable and does not involve a use or
disclosure of an individual’s protected information in violation of Klamath
County policy.

      Disclosures by whistleblowers and workforce crime victims

A Klamath County employee or business associate may disclose an individual’s protected client
information if:

A. The Klamath County employee or business associate believes, in good
faith, that Klamath County has engaged in conduct that is unlawful or that otherwise
violates professional standards or Klamath County policy, or that the care, services, or
conditions provided by Klamath County could endanger Klamath County staff, persons in
Klamath County care, or the public; and

     B.   The disclosure is to:
1.  An oversight agency or public authority authorized by law to investigate
                               or otherwise oversee the relevant conduct or conditions of Klamath County;
2.  An appropriate health care accreditation organization for the
     purpose of reporting the allegation of failure to meet professional
                               standards or of misconduct by Klamath County; or
3.  An attorney retained by or on behalf of the Klamath County employee
     or business associate for the purpose of determining the legal options
     of the Klamath County employee or business associate with regard to
     this Klamath County policy.

A Klamath County employee may disclose limited protected information about an individual to a
law enforcement official if the employee is the victim of a criminal act and the disclosure is:

      A.  About only the suspected perpetrator of the criminal act; and

      B.  Limited to the following information about the suspected perpetrator:

• Name and address;
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 w/amendments – 11/20/2018 – Page 900-7
• Date and place of birth;
• Social security number;
• ABO blood type and rh factor;
• Type of any injury;
• Date and time of any treatment; and
• Date and time of death, if applicable.

GLOSSARY OF DEFINED TERMS

SUBJECT:  Glossary of Defined Terms Used in HIPAA Policies and Procedures

HIPAA CITES:    45 CFR §§ 160.103, 160.202, 164.501

I. BACKGROUND
Section II of this glossary defines terms that are used in Klamath County’s policies implementing
its compliance with the Standards for Privacy of Individually Identifiable Health Information, 45
CFR Parts 160 and 164, which were promulgated pursuant to the Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act.  Unless a specific policy indicates otherwise, any defined term has the
meaning ascribed to it in this Policy.

II. DEFINITIONS

A. “Business Associate” shall mean any entity, wit h the exception of members of the
Provider’s workforce, that:

1.   On behalf of the Provider performs or assists in the performance of a
      function or service that involves the use or disclosure of individually
      identifiable health information or any other function or activity
      regulated by the Privacy rule; or

2.   Provides legal, actuarial, accounting, consulting, data aggregation,
      management, accreditation, administrative or financial services, if
      if the service involves the disclosure of individually identifiable health
      information from the Provider from another Business Associate of the
      Provider.

Note:  A Provider itself may be a Business Associate if it provides services for or on
behalf of another Covered Entity.

B. “Covered Entity” shall mean:
1. A Health Plan.
2. A Health Care Clearinghouse.
3. A Health Care Provider who transmits any health information in electronic form in
connection with a transaction covered by the regulations promulgated pursuant to
HIPAA.  (Klamath County is a Covered Entity because it is a Health Care
Provider.)

C. “Data Aggregation” shall mean, with respect to Protected Health Information created or
received by Vendor in its capacity as the Business Associate of the Covered Entity, the
combining of such Protected Health Information by Vendor with the Protected Health
Information received by Vendor in its capacity as a Business Associate of another
Covered Entity, to permit data analyses that relate to the health care operations of the
respective Covered Entities.
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 w/amendments – 11/20/2018 – Page 900-8
D. “Designated Record Set ” shall mean a group of records maintained by or for the
Covered Entity that is (i) the medical records and billing records about individuals
maintained by or for the Covered Entity, (ii) the enrollment, Pay ment, claims adjudication,
and case or medical management record systems maintained by or for a Health Plan; or
(iii) used, in whole or in part, by or for the Covered Entity to make decisions about
individuals. As used herein, the term "Record” means any i tem, collection, or grouping of
information that includes Protected Health Information and is maintained, collected, used,
or disseminated by or for the Covered Entity.
E. “Electronic Media” shall mean the mode of electronic transmissions.  It includes the
Internet, extranet (using Internet technology to link a business with information only
accessible to collaborating parties), leased lines, dial -up lines, private networks, and
those transmissions that are physically moved from one location to another using
magnetic tape, disk, compact disk media and any removable/transportable digital memory
medium, such as optical disk or digital memory card.
F. “Health Care Clearinghouse” shall mean a public or private entity, including a billing
service, re- pricing company, c ommunity health management information system or
community health information system, and “value- added” networks and switches, that
does either of the following functions:
1. Processes or facilitates the processing of health information received from
another entity in a nonstandard format or containing nonstandard data content
into standard data elements or a standard transaction.

2. Receives a standard transaction from another entity and processes or facilitates
the processing of health information into nonstandard format or nonstandard data
content for the receiving entity.

G. “Health Care Operations” shall mean any of the following activities of the Covered Entity
to the extent that the activities are related to covered functions, and any of the following
activities of an organized health care arrangement in which the Covered Entity
participates:
1. Conducting quality assessment and improvement activities, including outcomes
evaluation and development of clinical guidelines, provided that the obtaining of
generalizable knowledge (i.e., research) is not the primary purpose of any studies
resulting from such activities; population- based activities relating to improving
health or reducing health care costs, protocol development, case management
and care coordi nation, contacting of Health Care Providers and patients with
information about treatment alternatives; and related functions that do not include
Treatment;

2. Reviewing the competence or qualifications of health care professionals,
evaluating practitioner and provider performance, health plan performance,
conducting training programs in which students, trainees, or practitioners in areas
of health care learn under supervision to practice or improve their skills as Health
Care Providers, training of non- health care professionals, accreditation,
certification, licensing, or credentialing activities;

3. Underwriting, premium rating, and other activities relating to the creation, renewal
or replacement of a contract of health insurance or health benefits, and ceding,
securing, or placing a contract for reinsurance of risk relating to claims for health
care (including stop- loss insurance and excess of loss insurance), provided that
the requirements of § 164.514(g) are met, if applicable;

4. Conducting or arranging for medical review, legal services, and auditing
functions, including fraud and abuse detection and compliance programs;

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 w/amendments – 11/20/2018 – Page 900-9
5. Business planning and development, such as conducting cost -management and
planning-related analyses related to managing and operating the entity, including
formulary development and administration, development or improvement of
methods of Payment or coverage policies; and

6. Business management and general administrative activities of the entity,
including, but not limited to:

a. Management activities relating to implementation of and compliance with
the requirements the rules promulgated pursuant to HIPAA;

b. Customer service, including the provision of data analyses for policy
holders, plan sponsors, or other customers, provided that Protected
Health Information is not disclosed to such policy holder, plan sponsor, or
customer;

c. Resolution of internal grievances;

d. Due diligence in connection with the sale or transfer of assets to a
potential successor in interest, if the potential successor in interest is a
Covered Entity or, following completion of the sale or transfer, will
become a Covered Entity; and

e. Consistent with the applicable requirements of § 164.514 of the Privacy
Rule, creating de- identified health inform ation or limited data set ,
fundraising for the benefit of the Covered Entity, and marketing for which
an individual authorization is not required as described in § 164.514(e)(2).

H. “Health Care Provider ” shall mean a provider of services (as defined in the Medicare
statute), a provider of medical or health services (as defined in the Medicare statute), and
any other person or organization who furnishes, bills, or is paid for health care in the
normal course of business. (Klamath County is a Health Care Provider.)
I. “Health Plan” shall mean an individual or group plan that provides, or pays the cost of,
medical care.
  1. Health Plan includes the following, singly or in combination:
a. A group health plan;

b. A health insurance issuer;

c. An HMO;

d. Part A or Part B of the Medicare program;

e. The Medicaid program;

f. An issuer of a Medicare supplemental policy;

g. An issuer of a long- term care policy, excluding a nursing home fixed-
indemnity policy;

h. An employee welfare benefit plan or any other arrangement that is
established or maintained for the purpose of offering or providing health
benefits to the employees of two or more employers;

i. The health care program for active military personnel under title 10 of the
United States Code;

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 w/amendments – 11/20/2018 – Page 900-10
j. The veteran’s health care program under 38 U.S.C. chapter 17;

k. The Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services
(CHAMPUS) (as defined in 10 U.S.C. 1072(4));

l. The Indian Health Service program under the Indian Health Care
Improvement Act, 25 U.S.C. 1601, et seq.;

m. The Federal Employees Health Benefits Program under 5 U.S.C. 8902,
et seq.;

n. An approved state child health plan under title XXI of the Act, providing
benefits for child health assistance that meet the requirements of section
2103 of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 1397, et seq.;

o. The Medicare + Choice program;

p. A high risk pool that is a mechanism established under state law to
provide health insurance coverage or comparable coverage to eligible
individuals; and

q. Any other individual or group plan, or combination of individual or group
plans, that provides or pays for the cost of medical care.

  2. Health Plan excludes the following:
a. Any policy, plan, or program to the extent that it provides, or pays for the
cost of, excepted benefits that are listed in section 2791(c)(1) of the PHS
Act, 42 U.S.C. 300gg-91(c)(1); and

b. A government-funded program:

i. Whose principal purpose is other than providing, or paying the
cost of, health care; or

ii. Whose principal activity is:

(a) The direct provision of health care to persons; or

(b) The making of grants to fund the direct provision of
health care to persons.

J. “Health Information” shall mean any information, whether oral or recorded in any form or
medium, that:
1. Is created or received by a Health Care Provider, Health Plan, public health
authority, employer, life insurer, school or university, or health care clearinghouse;
and

2. Relates to the past, present, or future physical or mental health or condition of an
individual; the provision of health care to an individual; or the past, present, or
future Payment for the provision of health care to an individual.

K. “Highly Confidential Information ” shall mean Psychotherapy Notes and the subset of
Protected Health Information that is related to: (1) treatment of a mental illness; (2)
alcohol and drug abuse treatment program records or information; (3) HIV/AIDS testing;
(4) child abuse and neglect; (5) sexual assault; (6) venereal disease; and (7) genetic
testing.
Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 w/amendments – 11/20/2018 – Page 900-11
L. “HIPAA” shall mean the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, Pub.
Law 104-191 (Aug. 21, 1996) as may be amended from time to time.
M. “Individually Identifiable Health Information ” shall mean information that is a subset of
health information, including demographic information collected from an individual, and
1. is created or received by a Health Care Provider, Health Plan,  employer or health
care clearinghouse; and

2. relates to the past, present, or future physical or mental health or condition of an
individual; the provision of health care to an individual; or the past, present or
future Payment for the provision of health care to an individual; and

a.  identifies the individual, or

b.  with respect to which there is a reasonable basis to believe the
information can be used to identify the individual.

N. “Limited Data Set ” shall have the meaning of PHI designated by the Provider (without
authorization or opportunity to object) as limited PHI information that may be disclosed to
third parties that enter int o a limited data set agreement.  A limited data set can only be
disclosed for one of the following purposes:

            1.         Research
            2.         Public Health
            3.         Health Care Operations

O. “Payment” shall mean:

1. The activities undertaken by:

a. A Health Plan to obtain premiums or to determine or fulfill its
responsibility for coverage and provision of benefits under the Health
Plan; or
b. A covered Health Care Provider or Health Plan to obtain or provide
reimbursement for the provision of health care.

2. The activities in paragraph (1) of this definition relate to the individual to whom
health care is provided and include, but are not limited to:

a. Determinations of eligibility or coverage (including coordination of
benefits or the determination of cost sharing amounts), and adjudication
or subrogation of health benefit claims;

b. Risk adjusting amounts due based on enrollee health status and
demographic characteristics;

c. Billing, claims management, collection activities, obtaining Payment
under a contract for reinsurance (including stop- loss insurance and
excess of loss insurance), and related health care data processing;

d. Review of health care services with respect to medical necessity,
coverage under a health plan, appropriateness of care, or justification of
charges;

e. Utilization review activities, including pre-certification and preauthorization
of services, concurrent and retrospective review of services; and

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 w/amendments – 11/20/2018 – Page 900-12
f. Disclosure to consumer reporting agencies of any of the following
protected health information relating to collection of premiums or
reimbursement:

i. Name and address;
ii. Date of birth;
iii. Social security number;
iv. Payment history;
v. Account number; and
vi. Name and address of the Health Care Provider and/or Health
Plan.

P. “Personal Representative” shall have the meaning of a person who has authority under
state law to act on behalf of an adult, emancipated minor, or unemancipated minor in
making health care decisions.
Q. “Privacy Rule”  shall mean the Standards for Privacy of Individually Identifiable Health
Information, 45 C.F.R. Parts 160 and 164, which was promulgated pursuant to HIPAA.
R. “Protected Health Information” or “PHI”  shall mean the subset of Individually
Identifiable Health Information that is (i) transmitted by electronic media; (ii) maintained in
any medium constituting Electronic Media; or (iii) transmitted or maintained in any other
form or medium.  “Protected Health Information” shall not include (i) education records
covered by the Family Educational Right and Privacy Act, as amended, 20 U.S.C.
§1232g, (ii) records described in 20 U.S.C.§1232g(a)(4)(B)(iv), and (iii) employment
records held by a Covered Entity in its role as employer.  (Note that Highly Confidential
Information is a subset of Protected Health Information.)
S. “Psychotherapy Notes” shall have the meaning of notes recorded (in any medium) by a
health care provider who is a mental health professional documenting or analyzing the
contents of conversation during a private counseling session or a group, joint, or family
counseling session and that are separated from the rest of the individual’s medical record.
Psychotherapy notes excludes medication prescription and monitoring, counseling
session start and stop times , the modalities and frequencies of treatment furnished,
results of clinical tests, and any summary of the following items:  Diagnosis, functional
status, the treatment plan, symptoms, prognosis, and progress to date.
T. “Research” means a systematic invest igation, including research development, testing
and evaluation, designed to develop or contribute to generalizeable knowledge.
U. “Treatment” shall mean the provision, coordination, or management of health care and
related services by one or more Health Car e Providers, including the coordination or
management of health care by a Health Care Provider with a third party; consultation
between Health Care Providers relating to a patient; or the referral of a patient for health
care from one Health Care Provider to another.
V. “Workforce” shall mean employees, volunteers, trainees, and other persons whose
conduct, in the performance of work for a Covered Entity, is under the direct control of
such entity, whether or not they are paid by the Covered Entity (A Covered Entity may
treat an independent contractor that performs a substantial portion of his/her activities on
the premises of the Covered Entity as a member of its Workforce).

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 w/amendments – 11/20/2018 – I
ACKNOWLEDGMENT RECEIPT

SUPERVISOR’S RECEIPT FOR THE
KLAMATH COUNTY HUMAN RESOURCES POLICY & PROCEDURE MANUAL

I hereby acknowledge that I have reviewed a copy of Klamath County’s Human Resources Policy &
Procedure Manual, revised September 1, 2011, which includes amendments through February 1, 2013.

I understand this Manual is the sole property of Klamath County and that I may not copy or give any part of
it to employees outside Klamath County without prior approval by the Board of County Commissioners or
Director of Human Resources.  I further acknowledge my responsibility as a supervisor for being familiar
with the contents of the Manual and understand that any questions regarding the contents should be
directed to the Human Resources Department for explanation or clarification.

Printed Name__________________________________________ Department _____________________

Supervisor’s Signature_____________________________________ Date_________________________

Klamath County Human Resources Policy & Procedure Manual – Revised September 1, 2011 w/amendments – 11/20/2018 – II
HUMAN RESOURCES & RISK MANAGEMENT FORMS
KCHR Form #1 (10/14) Employment Requisition Form
KCHR Form #2 (1/11)  Employee Leave Request
KCHR Form #3 (10/15) Employee Information Sheet
KCHR Form #4 (4/11)  HR Interview New Hire Info.
KCHR Form #5 (1/11)  FMLA Leave Request Form
KCHR Form #6 (4/11)  Employment Application
KCHR Form #6A (2/11) EEO Form
KCHR Form #6B (2/11) Volunteer Application
KCHR Form #7 (3/11)  Property Control & In-Out Processing Checklist
KCHR Form #8 (2/11)  Injury Report
KCHR Form #9 (9/11)  Incident/Accident Report
KCHR Form #10 (2/11) 3- 6 Month Performance Evaluation
KCHR Form #11 (2/11) Annual Employee Performance Evaluation
KCHR Form #12 (2/11) Supervisory Performance Evaluation
KCHR Form #13 (2/11) Relocation Repayment Agreement
KCHR Form #14 (2/11) Public Records Request
KCHR Form #15 (2/11) Employment Reference Verification
KCHR Form #16 (4/11) Applicant Release Addendum
KCHR Form #17 (4/11) Drug Screen Form
KCHR Form #18 (9/15) No Benefits Orientation Checklist
KCHR Form #19 (9/15) Non Union Orientation Checklist
KCHR Form #20 (9/15) Local 737 Orientation Checklist
KCHR Form #21 (9/15) Local 701 Orientation Checklist
KCHR Form #22 (9/15) KCPOA Orientation Checklist
KCHR Form #23 (9/15) TEAMSTERS Orientation Checklist
KCHR Form #24 (9/15) FOPPO Orientation Checklist
KCHR Form #25 (9/15) ONA Orientation Checklist
KCHR Form #26 (2/11) Contact Information Update Form
KCHR Form #27 (9/15) District Attorney Orientation Checklist
KCHR Form #28 (2/11) Guest Passenger Agreement
KCHR Form #29A (2/11) Consent/Decline of Testing Following Occupational Exposure –
Exposed
KCHR Form #29B (2/11) Consent/Decline of Testing Following Occupational Exposure –
Source
KCHR Form #30 (2/11) Refusal to File Workers’ Compensation 801 Form
KCHR Form #31 (2/11) Public Use AED Event Information
KCHR Form #32 (2/11) Guidelines for Personally Owned Vehicles
KCHR Form #33 (2/11) Operation of County Vehicles by Volunteers Form
KCHR Form #34 (2/11) KC Counseling Statement
KCHR Form #34A (4/11) KC Counseling Statement - Fillable
KCHR Form #35 (2/11) Pension Enrollment Form
KCHR Form #35A (4/11) Pension Plan Update Form
KCHR Form #36 (2/11) Record of Hazard Observed Form
KCHR Form #37 (2/11) Video Check-out Form
KCHR Form #38 (2/11) HSA Additional Contribution Form
KCHR Form #39 (9/12) Cellular Telephone Allowance Request Form
KCHR Form #200 (10/14) New Hire/Rehire Request (Copy on Green)
KCHR Form #201 (10/14) Employee Change of Status Request (Copy on Canary)
KCHR Form #202 (10/14) Termination Request (Copy on Goldenrod)

OTHER COUNTY FORMS
 Travel Reimbursement Form (Available from Finance Dept.)
 801 Form
 Bloodborne Pathogen Exposure Incident/Accident Report