Collective Bargaining Agreement

             between

    Klamath County, Oregon

                and

  Laborers’ Union, Local 737

    July 1, 2026 - June 30, 2029

         Table of Contents
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

PREAMBLE

ARTICLE 1, SCOPE OF AGREEMENT

ARTICLE 2, RECOGNITION

                                                                                  CU
ARTICLE 3, UNION MEMBERSHIP AND CHECK-OFF

                                                                                  OC
ARTICLE 4, MANAGEMENT RIGHTS

                                                                                  SP
ARTICLE 5, STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS

                                                                                  ao
ARTICLE 6, HOLIDAYS

                                                                                  aon
ARTICLE 7, PTO

                                                                                  oo
ARTICLE 8, HOURS OF WORK

                                                                                  o
ARTICLE 9, OTHER LEAVES OF ABSENCE

ARTICLE 10, COMPENSATION                                                              12

ARTICLE 11, DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE                                                  15

ARTICLE 12, SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES                                                    16

ARTICLE 13, PROBATIONARY PERIOD                                                       18

ARTICLE 14, GENERAL OPERATIONS                                                        18

ARTICLE 15, HEALTH, WELFARE AND RETIREMENT                                            21

ARTICLE 16, WORKER’S COMPENSATION                                                     22

ARTICLE 17, LIABILITY INSURANCE                                                       22

ARTICLE 18, SAVINGS CLAUSE AND FUNDING                                                22

ARTICLE 19, DRUG TESTING                                                              23

ARTICLE 20, TERMINATION AND REOPENING                                                 23

EXHIBIT A, SALARY AND COMPENSATION SCHEDULES                                          24
EXHIBIT B, CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULES                                                   30
EXHIBIT C, PROVISIONS TO COVER SPECIAL CONDITIONS OF PARTICULAR DEPARTMENTS           33
EXHIBIT D, ALCOHOL AND DRUG ABUSE POLICY                                              34
SIGNATURE PAGE                                                                        42

                                                                          6/24/2026
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

                                            AGREEMENT
                                 BETWEEN KLAMATH COUNTY, OREGON
                                                AND
                           LABORERS’ UNION, LOCAL 737, PORTLAND, OREGON

                                                      PREAMBLE

This Agreement is entered into by Klamath County, Oregon, hereinafter referred to as the “County” and
Oregon and Southern Idaho, District Council of Laborers and Local 737 of the Laborers International Union
of North America, AFL-CIO, hereinafter collectively referred to as the “Union”. Unless indicated otherwise,
references to the “County” herein shall refer to the Board of County Commissioners and, where applicable,
to any elected official who is responsible to the citizens of the County for operation of the particular
departments covered by this Agreement. It is further recognized by the Union that there is a statutory
division of responsibility between the Board of Commissioners and other elected officials or department
heads, and that in the event of any conflict, the function and authority of the Board of Commissioners shall
be controlling with reference to any matter covered by this Agreement.

                                                    ARTICLE 1
                                              SCOPE OF AGREEMENT

Section 1.1 This Agreement shall apply to non-supervisory employees of the County and excludes all
Elected Officials, Public Works/Road Division employees covered by another collective bargaining
agreement; foremen; registered nurses; Parole and Probation Officers; Fairgrounds employees; all Sheriff's
office deputies, employees, and reserve deputies except for cooks and facility maintenance workers; part-
time, temporary or seasonal employees; part-time Juvenile Groupworkers working 24 or less hours in a
week: all employees hired for a period greater than twelve (12) months under a specific state or federal
grant and all staff members employed in the Board of Commissioners office and Human Resources/Risk
Management office.

Section 1.2 For purposes of this Agreement, the following definitions shall apply:

A.   REGULAR FULL-TIME: a regular full-time employee shall be an employee who occupies a position
     that is authorized, budgeted, and designated as a regular full-time position. Such a regular full-time
     position will normally be regularly scheduled to work at least 37.5 hours per week and shall be fully
     regulated by the provisions of this agreement.

B.   REGULAR HALF-TIME: a regular half-time employee shall be an employee who occupies a position
     that is authorized, budgeted, and designated as a regular half-time position. Such a regular half-time
     position will normally be regularly scheduled to work a minimum of 20 and less than 37.5 hours per
     week. Such an employee shall be subject to the terms and provisions of this agreement and shall be
     entitled to employer-paid benefits on a pro-rated basis (for example, 0.60FTE employees will receive
     pro-rated insurance benefits at 0.60%; 0.25FTE employees will receive pro-rated insurance benefits at
     0.25%).

A.   PART-TIME: a part-time employee shall be an employee who regularly works 19 or fewer hours per
     week. Such an employee shall not be subject to the terms and provisions of this agreement and shall

                                                                                               6/24/2026       3
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

     not accrue sick leave or vacation nor be entitled to holiday pay or receive medical or most other
     employee benefits.

B. TEMPORARY: a temporary employee shall be an employee who holds a position authorized,
   budgeted, and designated temporary. This section also includes those employees working a seasonal
   or emergency job assignment. Such an employee, hired into a position in which the nature of the work
   is temporary, shall be limited to an employment period not to exceed six (6) months; shall not be
   subject to the terms and provisions of this agreement. Employees in this classification shall not be
   eligible for employee benefits. In the event a temporary or seasonal position is occupied on a full-time
   basis beyond the six (6) month period, the terms of this agreement will apply and probation shall
   commence on the first of the month following the first six months of temporary employment.

A.   CHANGES IN STATUS: to ensure the integrity and stability of the work force and prevent any
     capricious modification of an employee’s status and denial or withdraw of benefits, any and all changes
     involving a change in job duties resulting in a change of status shall occur only with authorization by the
     Board of County Commissioners and through procedures designated by the Human Resources
     Department.

A.   OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT: any and all employment or activities for remuneration of any sort, including
     partial or full ownership of firms operating within the County may be permitted only with the prior written
     approval of the Department Head. Such outside employment or activity may be permitted only where,
     at the discretion of the County, the nature and extent of such activities are compatible with County
     employment; and where such outside employment or activities would not, or later does not, interfere
     with an employee's responsibilities to County employment; and in no way conflicts with the interests of
     the County or is a discredit to the County. Failure to report such outside activity or to comply with the
     procedures established by the County to enforce the provisions of this section shall be subject to
     progressive discipline as outlined elsewhere in this Agreement.

A.   CONFIDENTIAL: a confidential employee shall be any employee who assists or participates in the
     formulation or execution of labor relations or personnel policy on behalf of the County and shall include
     personnel employed in the office of the County Commissioners, County Counsel, Human
     Resources/Risk Management and Payroll.

A.   SUPERVISORY:        a supervisory employee shall be as defined in ORS 243.650(23).

A. ANNIVERSARY DATE: the date of appointment to regular status, or if promoted, the effective date of
     the promotion.

A.   DAY: unless otherwise detailed or defined within a particular section of this Agreement, the term “day”
     used in this Agreement shall refer to working day or normal business day and shall not include
     saturday or Sunday.

                                                                                                6/24/2026          4
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

                                                      ARTICLE 2
                                                    RECOGNITION

The County recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for the purposes of
establishing salaries, wages, hours and other conditions of employment for all of its employees within the
bargaining unit described in Article 1 hereof.

                                                ARTICLE 3
                                     UNION MEMBERSHIP AND CHECK-OFF

Section 3.1 Membership or non-membership in the Union shall be the individual choice of employees
covered by this Agreement. It is recognized that employees covered by this Agreement may be required in
the line of duty to perform duties growing out of or connected with labor disputes which may arise within the
County. The Union agrees that no disciplinary or other action will be taken by the Union against employees
covered by this Agreement by reason of any such action or conduct in the line of duty.

Section 3.2 The County agrees to deduct from the paycheck of each employee who has so authorized it
the regular initiation fee (for new employees) and regular monthly dues uniformly required of members of
the Union. The amounts deducted shall be transmitted monthly to the Union on behalf of the employees
involved. Authorization for such deduction shall be in writing, signed by the employee, on forms furnished
by the County and may be revoked by the employee upon written request only during the thirty (30) day
period between June 1 and June 30 of each year. It is the responsibility of the member to ensure they pay
union dues while on unpaid leaves of absences of any time in order to maintain their status.

Section 3.3 The County agrees to provide the Union the names and addresses (including cell phone and
personal email) of newly hired employees within thirty (30) calendar days following the employee's date of
hire. Should the County hold an employee orientation meeting, a representative or steward of the Union
shall be provided notice no less than ten (10) days before the orientation including date, time, and location
of the orientation. Immediately following the new employee orientation, the Union shall be allowed up to
thirty (30) minutes to provide new employee orientation to Local 737 bargaining unit employees. A
bargaining unit member attending orientation during the employee’s regular work time as the Union
representative shall be given paid release time sufficient to cover the Union’s presentation and travel time.
The Union will provide the names of any employees who they wish to be released at least 48 hours in
advance to the Human Resources Department. If the Union steward is unavailable, a Union representative
will provide the new member orientation.

Section 3.4 The union assumes responsibility for repayment of monies found to be illegally deducted by
the County under this Article and shall indemnify and hold the County harmless against any and all claims
that arise out of or by reason of the good faith actions of the County pursuant to its compliance with this
Article.

                                                                                              6/24/2026         5
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

                                                   ARTICLE 4
                                              MANAGEMENT RIGHTS

The County retains all the customary, usual, and exclusive rights decision making, prerogatives, functions,
and authority connected with or in any way incident to its responsibility to manage the affairs of the County
or any department or function thereof. The rights of employees in the bargaining unit and the Union are
limited to those specifically set forth in this Agreement, and the County retains all prerogatives, functions,
and rights not specifically limited by the terms of this Agreement. The County shall have no obligation to
bargain with the Union with respect to any such subjects or the exercise of its discretion and decision
making with regard thereto, any subjects covered by the terms of this Agreement and closed to further
bargaining for the term hereof, and any subject which was or might have been raised in the course of
collective bargaining. Without limitations, but by way of illustration, the exclusive prerogatives, functions
and rights of the County shail include the following:

1.   Todirect and supervise all operations, functions and policies of the departments in which the
     employees in the bargaining unit are employed, and operations, functions, and policies in the
     remainder of the County as they may affect employees in the bargaining unit.
1.   To close, liquidate or combine any department, office, branch, operation of facility, service, or
     combination thereof, or to relocate, reorganize or combine the work of departments, divisions, offices,
     branches, operations or facilities for budgetary or any other pertinent reason.
1.   To determine the need for a reduction or an increase in the work force and the implementation of any
     decision with regard thereto.
1.   To establish, revise and implement standards for hiring, classification, promotion, quality of work,
     safety, materials, equipment, uniforms, appearance, methods, and procedures.
1.   To implement new, and to revise or discard, wholly or in part, old methods, procedures, materials,
     equipment, facilities, and standards.
1.   To assign and distribute work.
4.   Tocontract or subcontract work as determined by the County upon notification to the Union.
1.   To assign shifts, workdays, hours of work and work locations as the County may determine, except
     where modified by a specific provision of this Agreement.
1.   To designate and to assign all work duties.
1.   To introduce new duties and to revise or add job classifications and duties within the unit, subject only
     to the provisions of Article 11, Section 1 hereof.
1.   To determine promotional opportunities and the need for and the qualifications of new employees,
     transfers, and promotions.
1.   To discipline, suspend, demote, or discharge an employee so long as such action is not arbitrary, in
     bad faith, or without just cause.
1.   To determine the need for additional education courses, training programs, on-the-job training, and
     cross-training and to assign employees to such duties for periods to be determined by the County.

The exercise of any management prerogative, function, or right which is not specifically modified by this
Agreement is expressly retained by the County, subject only to the claimed violation of a specific provision
of this Agreement, which may be subject to the provisions of Article 13 hereof.

                                                                                               6/24/2026         6
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

                                                    ARTICLE 5
                                             STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS

Section 5.1   During the duration of this Agreement, the Union and its members, as individuals or as a
group, will not initiate, cause, permit, participate or join in any strike, work stoppage or slowdown, picketing,
or any other restriction of work at any location in the County. Employees in the bargaining unit, while acting
in the course of their employment, shall not honor any picket line established in the County by the Union or
by any other labor organization when called upon to cross such picket line in the line of duty. Disciplinary
action, including discharge, may be taken by the County against any employee or employees engaged in a
violation of this Article. Such disciplinary action may be undertaken selectively at the option of the County
and shall not preclude or restrict recourse to any other remedies, including an action for damages, which
may be available to the County.

Section 5.2 In the event of a strike, work stoppage, slowdown, picketing, observance of a picket line, or
other restriction of work in any form, either on the basis of individual choice or collective employee conduct,
the Union will immediately, upon notification, attempt to secure an immediate and orderly return to work.
This obligation and the obligations set forth in Section 5.1 above shall not be affected or limited by the
subject matter involved in the dispute giving rise to the stoppage or by whether such subject matter Is or is
not subject to the grievance and arbitration provision of this Agreement.

Section 5.3 There will be no lockout of employees in the unit by the County as a consequence of any labor
dispute arising during the period of this Agreement.

                                                      ARTICLE 6
                                                      HOLIDAYS

Section 6.1 The following shall be recognized as holidays for full-time employees:

         New Year's Day                                       Labor Day
         Martin Luther King Junior Day                        Veteran's Day
         President's Day                                      Thanksgiving
         Memorial Day                                         Day after Thanksgiving
         Juneteenth                                           Christmas Day
         Independence Day
         Two Floating Holidays*™”
         An additional floating holiday will be granted after 15 years of service to equal Three Floating
         Holidays.
         **Floating holidays will be added into the PTO accrual (see Article 7).

Section 6.2 Whenever a holiday falls on Saturday, the preceding Friday shall be observed as the holiday;
and whenever a holiday falls on Sunday, the succeeding Monday shall be observed as the holiday. If an
employee is on authorized vacation, sick leave, or other leave with pay when a holiday occurs, such holiday
shall not be charged against such leave, and an additional day may be scheduled by mutual agreement
between the employee and her/his supervisor.

Section 6.3 Eligible full-time employees shall receive one (1) day’s pay for each of the holidays listed
above on which they perform no work.

                                                                                                 6/24/2026          7
 Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

            (A)     Full-time non-exempt employees that work a flexible schedule and a holiday falls on their
  day off shall be awarded another day off at their current hours worked that day. Such day off shall be as
  mutually agreed to between the employee and their department head, or his/her designee, but shall be
  approved and taken within ten (10) working days from the date of such holiday. (For example if a non-
  exempt employee works four (4) ten (10) hour days per week and a holiday falls on their day off; that
  employee shall be awarded another day off with hours paid that are typically worked on that day).
            (B)     Full-time exempt employees that work a flexible schedule and a holiday falls on their day
  off shall be awarded another day off. Such day off shall be as mutually agreed to between the employee
  and their department head, or his/her designee, but shall be approved and taken within ten (10) working
  days from the date of such holiday.
            (C)     Half-time employees will be eligible for holiday pay equal to a proration of the employees
budgeted FTE times eight (8) hours. When a holiday falls on a day off for a less than full-time (40 hours per
week) employee, that employee shall be awarded another day off with pay at the prorated rate. Such day
off shall be as mutually agreed to between the employee and their department head, or his/her designee,
but shall be approved and taken within ten (10) working days from the date of such holiday.

 Section 6.4 If an employee is required to work on any holiday listed above, they shall receive, in addition to
 their holiday pay, compensation for all hours worked at the rate of one and one-half the regular rate of pay
 or compensatory time off at the rate of time and one-half, as mutually agreed upon by the County.

 Comp Time must be used under the following conditions: It must be used during the quarter in which it is
 earned: and all banked Comp Time must be exhausted before other benefit time is used. Comp time may
 be earned and taken off only with the approval of the Department Head. If consensus cannot be reached,
 another employee will be offered the extra work if the option is turned down by the employee.

 Section 6.5 All regular full-time employees are eligible to accrue and utilize two floating holidays per fiscal
 year (i.e., between July 1 and June 30) in accordance with the provisions of Article 6 of this Agreement.
 This will be included in PTO accrual hours.

                                                       ARTICLE 7
                                                      Paid Time Off

 A. Purpose
 Klamath County understands that there are many personal reasons an employee may need to take time
 off, other than sick or vacation. In the spirit of flexibility, Klamath County will award a PTO bank as provided
 below for employees to take time off as needed. Please note that this PTO bank covers the required 40
 hours of sick leave guaranteed through Oregon Sick Leave.
 PTO is a flexible plan that can be customized by each individual to their time off needs. Because PTO
 allows employees to accrue one kind of time (PTO), this can be used like sick leave and vacation leave in
 any proportion an employee may see fit.
 PTO can also be used for other activities in which sick leave would not be appropriate, such as school
 activities, daycare issues, and extended bereavement.
 PTO is being implemented to provide more flexibility for employees. Klamath County values trust and
 integrity in the workplace and allow employees to assume responsibility for how they use their time off.
 PTO also eliminates managers and supervisors from having to determine what qualifies for sick leave and
 what does not.

                                                                                                 6/24/2026         Q
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

B. Scope
All full-time employees are eligible for the PTO bank. Half-time employees (20+ hours per week) will accrue
at a pro-rated amount, equal to or greater than the Oregon Sick Leave requirement.
This policy does not apply to less than half-time employees (see Oregon Sick Leave policy), independent
contractors, state or federal work training participants, work study participants, volunteers, and employees
contracted through a temporary staffing agency.
This policy replaces all other sick leave, vacation leave and floating holiday leave unless otherwise noted or
required through bargaining group.

C. Policy
During absences from work, eligible employee wages will be continued for the amount of time accrued in
the employee's PTO account.

PTO will be accrued at the following rates beginning July 1, 2023. The maximum accrual rate depends on
hire date and bargaining unit. Most employees will reach a maximum cap of 1040 hours.

         e    For years 1-5, accrual rate will be at 8.67 hours per pay period.
         °    For years 6-10 (beginning at 5-year anniversary), accrual rate will be at 9.67 hours per pay

         2    Por year 11-15 (beginning at 10-year anniversary), accrual rate will be at 11.17 hours per pay

         °    Po year 16-19 (beginning at 15-year anniversary), accrual rate will be at 12.5 hours per pay

         °    ya          20+ (beginning at 19-year anniversary), accrual rate will be at 13.34 hours per pay
              period.

Employees as of June 30, 2023 will have any hours remaining in their sick and vacation banks rolled over
into their PTO bank. For those that have sick leave and vacation leave that exceeds the maximum allowed
amount for their group, employees may keep excess sick leave in their sick leave bank to use for sick leave
after an absence of more than 3 consecutive days.

Upon separation, employees are eligible for the following payout based on years of service:

                   For years 1-5, maximum payout is 160 hours.
                   For years 6-10 (complete 5 full years), maximum payout is 240 hours.
                   For years 11-15 (complete 10 full years), maximum payout is 288 hours.
                   For years 16-20 (complete 15 full years), maximum payout is 352 hours.
                   For years 21-25 (complete 20 full years) maximum payout is 400 hours.

Overtime is not included as time worked in the calculation. Paid time off and holidays are included as time
worked for purposes of this section.
An employee is allowed to use any or all of the employee’s choice of paid sick leave or PTO to allow the
employee to provide care for a family member with a mental or physical illness, injury, or health condition;
or to care for a family member who needs preventive medical care. Family member in this case Is
equivalent to the OFLA family member definition.

                                                                                              6/24/2026          9
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

lf an employee is denied a request for PTO due to staffing or business concerns, and the denial would
result in the employee's accrual exceeding the maximum allowed, the employee shail not lose the accrual
at that time. The employee has until the end of the fiscal year to utilize any PTO over the maximum accrual.
Any remaining amount over the maximum accrual as of July 1* will be forfeited.

D. Procedure
Planned versus Unplanned time off: Planned time off is when the employee has made a request and has
been approved for time off in advance of taking the time. These would include things such as vacations,
scheduled medical absences, other scheduled appointments and other absences for which time off is
requested and approved in advance of the immediate need.

Unplanned time off is for which the employee requests time off without prior notice, such as for
emergencies, including but not limited to illness, transportation, or child care issues. An employee must
keep their department head informed of their condition if unplanned use of PTO is more than three (3)
working days in duration. Unplanned PTO that does not fall under a protected leave category which
interferes with job performance or County operations may subject the employee to corrective action.

When reasonably possible, an employee shall notify their supervisor at least two hours before the start of
the scheduled work shift if the employee is unable to report to work as scheduled. Notice must be given
either in person, via phone call, or via text. Department managers may authorize a shorter notice timeline
or other notice methodology.

Employees requesting time off for personal reasons shail provide their supervisor with as much advanced
notice as possible. If insufficient notice is given, supervisors may deny personal PTO requests based on
department needs.

Depending on the length and circumstances of absence, a physician’s release may be required upon
returning to work.

In certain cases, FMLA or OFLA may apply. Please refer to policy #315 for more information on this type of
leave.

E. PTO Donations
Employees can elect to share PTO according to current policy. All PTO donation requests must be
requested by the department head and approved by the HR Director.

F. Conversion of Sick Leave Accruals
All employees will have their sick leave accruals transferred into their PTO bank except in the case where
the sick leave and vacation leave exceeds the employee’s maximum accrual. If the conversion exceeds the
maximum PTO accrual, then excess hours will be kept in the employee’s sick leave bank to use for sick
leave purposes extending longer than 3 days.

G. PTO Maximum Exceptions and Payouts
All employees will be subject to a maximum PTO accrual of 1040 hours, except for the following:
         e Employees who were hired prior to January 1, 1998 will be allowed a maximum PTO of 1360
             hours, to allow for the previously agreed maximum sick leave payout of 50% of hours

                                                                                            6/24/2026      10
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

              remaining, up to a maximum of 480 hours. This allows for the employee to also receive the
              maximum vacation payout of 400 hours.
An excess of 1040 hours, with the exception of the above, must be used by June 30” each year or be
forfeited.

All other employees otherwise covered by a Collective Bargaining Agreement will utilize their PTO accrual
maximum language.

H. Payout for PTO time
Employees may request up to 40 hours of PTO in a fiscal year to be paid out at 80% of hourly wage.
Payout will only be allowed if the employee has already used 40 hours of PTO during the fiscal year.

                                                     ARTICLE 8
                                                  HOURS OF WORK

Section 8.1 Non-exempt employees will be paid straight time for all hours worked up to a maximum of forty
(40) hours in a pay week. For purposes of overtime payment, the County's established pay week is 12:00
a.m. Sunday through 11:59 p.m. Saturday. The workweek, to the extent consistent with operating
requirements of each department covered by this Agreement and recognizing the necessity for continuous
service by certain departments throughout the week, shall normally consist of consecutive four (4) ten (10)
hour days or five (5) eight (8) hour days, or as otherwise scheduled by the County. However, the
employee, with the concurrence of the department head, may incorporate a flextime schedule that would
allow for flexibility in scheduling work projects thereby allowing for increased productivity.

Section 8.2 The regular hours of work each day shall be consecutive, except for interruptions for rest and
meal periods, and shall, to the extent consistent with operating requirements of the department and the
need for continuous service to the County throughout the week, be scheduled between the hours of 6:00
a.m. and 7:00 p.m., except as otherwise provided by addendum hereto for particular departments requiring
continuous operation. The regular workweek shall be in accordance with existing departmental practice
and procedures in effect on the date of this Agreement, provided that nothing in this Agreement shall
constitute a guarantee of any number of hours’ work per day or per week.

Section 8.3 To the extent consistent with operating requirements, all employees shall be scheduled to work
on a regular work shift, as determined by the County, and each shift shall have regular starting and quitting
times. Work schedules showing the employees’ shifts, workdays, and hours shall be posted within the
department, in a reasonable and common place for employees to access, at least seventy-two (72) hours in
advance except in cases of emergency or other situations beyond the employer's control.

Section 8.4 Employees are responsible for developing a weekly flextime schedule with their supervisor. As
for the individual start time, an employee could arrive at the office at 7:00am and leave at 4:00pm, or come
in at 9:00am and leave at 6:00pm. Employees are allowed to manage their own time more effectively in
conjunction with supervisory approval. Urgent, unexpected projects may dictate the need for an employee
to work over an eight (8) hour day. In order to compensate for that time and remain within the 40-hour
weekly limit, flextime could be used to off-set the additional time worked by allowing the employee to report

                                                                                             6/24/2026       11
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

for work the next day at a later time or leave early the following day. At no time can an employee choose to
flex his/her own schedule without management approval. Cooperation between the employee and
supervisor is critical. Accountability of weekly hours is imperative. The employee must request flextime in
written form and it must be approved by the supervisor prior to implementation.

Section 8.5 A rest period of fifteen (15) minutes shall be permitted for all employees during each half shift,
which shall be scheduled by the department head in accordance with his or her determination as to the
operating requirements of each employee's duties.

Section 8.6 Except as otherwise provided for particular departments by addendum hereto, all employees
shall be granted an uncompensated meal period during each work shift. To the extent consistent with
operating requirements of the respective departments, meal periods shall be not less than thirty (30) nor
more than sixty (60) minutes, except in cases of emergency, and shall be scheduled at or near the middle
of the work shift.

Section 8.7 On any jobs that operate more than one shift, employees may on the basis of their job
seniority, transfer to a more desirable shift or schedule to fill vacancies within their current job classification.

                                                  ARTICLE 9
                                          OTHER LEAVES OF ABSENCE

Section 9.1 Leaves of absences without pay not to exceed ninety (90) calendar days may be granted upon
establishment of reasonable justification therefore in instances where the work of the department will not be
negatively impacted by the temporary absence of the employee. Requests for such leaves must be in
writing. Such leave may be extended in extraordinary circumstances. Leave will not be approved for an
employee for the purpose of accepting employment outside the service of the County. The employee will
be responsible for the cost of medical insurance and term life during this time. No sick leave nor vacation
will accrue during this leave of absence.

Section 9.2 Employees shall be granted leave with pay for service upon a jury; provided, however, that the
salary paid to such an employee for the period of the absence shall be reduced by the amount of money
received by them for such jury service, and upon being excused from jury service an employee shall
immediately contact the department head or other supervisor for assignment for the remainder of their
regular workday.

Section 9.3 Leave with pay shall be granted for an appearance connected with an employee's official
duties before a court, legislative committee, judicial or quasi-judicial body as a witness in response to a
subpoena or other direction by proper authority; provided, however, that the regular straight-time salary
paid to such employee shall be reduced by an amount equal to any compensation they may receive as
witness fee.

Section 9.4 Leave of absence with pay shall be granted for attendance in court in connection with an
employee's officially assigned duties, including the time required for travel to the court and return to the
employee's place of employment or residence, should such appearance occur outside an employee's work
schedule.

                                                                                                    6/24/2026      12
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

Section 9.5 Employees elected to any union office or selected by the Union to do work which takes them
from their employment with the County shall, upon written request of the Union and the employee, be
recommended by the department head for a leave of absence without pay. To the extent consistent with
the operating requirements of the department, such employees shall be granted a leave of absence without
pay. Any employee who has been granted a leave of absence and who, for any reason, fails to return to
work at the expiration of said leave of absence, shall be considered as having resigned their position with
the County unless the employee, prior to expiration of their leave of absence, has made application for and
has been granted an extension of said leave or has furnished evidence that they are unable to return to
work by reason of sickness, injury or weather and travel conditions. The Union or employee will be
responsible to pay for medical and term life insurance in the event such duty exceeds 30 days.

Section 9.6 After completing one (1) year of continuous service, a full-time employee, upon written request,
may be granted a leave of absence without pay by the County for the purpose of upgrading their
professional ability through enrollment in educational courses directly related to employment at an
accredited school or course of study. The period of such leave of absence shall not exceed one (1) year,
but may be renewed or extended upon request of the employee and approved by the department head for
up to one (1) additional year. One (1) year leaves of absence, with requested extensions, for educational
purposes may not be provided more than once in any three (3) year period.

Section 9.7 Employees may also be granted time off with pay, meals, lodging and mileage in accordance
with existing County policy for educational purposes, for reasonable lengths of time to attend conferences,
seminars, briefing sessions, training programs and other programs of a similar nature that are intended to
improve or upgrade the employee's skill and professional ability, when ordered by the employee's
department head.

Section 9.8 A full-time employee who has served with the County for six (6) months or more immediately
preceding an application for military leave and who is a member of the National Guard or of any reserve
component of the armed forces of the United States is entitled to leave of absence from their duties for a
period not exceeding fifteen (15) calendar days in any calendar year. Such leave shall be granted without
loss of pay and without impairment of other benefits to which they are entitled. Military leave with pay to a
maximum of fifteen (15) calendar days in any federal fiscal year as specified herein may be granted only
when an employee receives bona fide orders to active duty for a temporary period and shall not be paid
unless the employee returns to their position with the County immediately following expiration of the period
for which they were ordered to duty. Leave with pay shall not be granted to employees entering the military
service for extended and indefinite periods of active duty.

Section 9.9 A regular employee shall be entitled to a military leave of absence without pay during a period
of extended service with the armed forces for the United States. They shall, upon honorable separation for
such service, be returned to the same, or if the position no longer exists, to a position of like seniority,
status and pay as if they had remained on the job instead of performing military service. If it is established
that they are not physically qualified to perform the duties of their former position by reason of such service,
theyshall be reinstated in other work, if available, that they are able to perform at the nearest appropriate
level of pay to that of their former grade. Such employee shall make application for reinstatement within
ninety (90) days and shall report for duty within six (6) months following separation from active duty with the
armed forces. Failure to comply shall terminate military leave and reemployment rights of the employee.

                                                                                                6/24/2026       12
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

Section 9.10 Employees shall be allowed to take parental and family leave, as well as military family
leave, in accordance with Oregon and Federal law. Application must be submitted in writing, accompanied
by proper medical certification, to the Human Resources Department for review and approval. Upon
request, and with the prior approval of their department head, employees shall be allowed to utilize accrued
vacation and/or sick leave for absences resulting from application of this Section. It is understood that
Federal Family Medical Leave, Oregon Family Leave, and Oregon Military Family Leave will be unpaid
leave. However, all sick leave and vacation hours will be utilized first before placing the employee in an
unpaid status.

Section 9.11 An employee shall be granted not more than five (5) days of paid bereavement leave in the
event of death in the immediate family of the employee. Two weeks of additional leave may be grant in
accordance with OFLA, see Human Resources Policy 315. An employee’s immediate family shall include
those individuals identified by the Federal Family Leave Act (FMLA) and/or Oregon Family Leave Act
(OFLA) including qualified domestic partners, stepparent and stepchildren.

                                                    ARTICLE 10
                                                  COMPENSATION

Section 10.1 Existing classification shall be those attached as Exhibit B. When any position not listed on
the list is established, the County shall designate a job classification and pay rate for the position and the
union shall be notified thereof. In the event the Union disagrees with the pay rate for the position which has
been established by the County, it may refer the matter to the procedures of Article 13, step Ill.

Section 10.2 Movement on the Step and Range Salary Schedule shall be as follows:

         (A).    Employees will be placed on the schedule at Exhibit A on the basis of the range of the
current job classification held and as listed in Exhibit B; and in the step in which the employee is in on the
date of the effective date of this agreement.
         (B).    Movement between Step 1 and Step 5 (Steps 1 and 2 in the case of ranges 1-5) shall be
annual, no more than one (1) step per year, as of the employee's Anniversary Date. Movement between
Step 5 and Step 7 shall be reviewed annually and given only on the basis of meritorious service, as
determined by the County.

Section 10.3 Salaries of employees shall be paid on a schedule established by the Board of County
Commissioner's according to the range and step schedule attached as Exhibit A.

Section 10.4     Cost of Living Adjustment (COLA): COLA adjustments shall be made as follows:

    e    July 1, 2026, wages shall be increased by 2%.
    e    July 1, 2027, wages shall be increased by 2.5%.
    e    July 1, 2028, wages shall be increased by 2.5%.

Section 10.5 Any employee called to work outside their regular shift after having left the premises shall be
compensated for a minimum of two hours at the rate of time and one-half. The County shall make
reasonable efforts to encourage the Courts to schedule appearances by employees in the line of duty

                                                                                                6/24/2026        14
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

during their regular work shift. Callback time does not apply to hours worked beyond the normal work
hours or tour of duty when they are scheduled at least one week in advance.

Section 10.6 Except as may be specified elsewhere in the Agreement, regular full-time employees shall be
compensated at a rate of one and one-half times their regular rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of
the regular work hours as outlined in Article 8, Section 1 of this Agreement. In no event shall there be any
double payment or pyramiding of compensation and/or benefits. Comp/Overtime is normally offered
(scheduled) on a seniority basis with consideration given to employee qualification, skill and performance.
lf an employee is unable to take time due to a management decision, an extension of 60 days maximum
will be afforded to the employee so that time is not lost.

Section 10.7 All regular assigned work in excess of eight (8) hours on any scheduled workday (or ten
hours on any scheduled ten-hour workday) is qualified as overtime to be compensated as detailed in
Section 11.6 of this Article. All regular assigned work in excess of forty (40) hours in the established pay
week is qualified as overtime to be compensated as detailed in Section 11.6 of the Article.

Section 10.8 Regardless of the total number of hours worked in such a week, PTO and holidays are
considered hours worked for purposes of calculating overtime; in no event shall there be a pyramiding of
compensation. Overtime hours are not included in computing the forty (40) hours worked.

Section 10.9 The positions designated on Exhibit B, Exempt Classification Plan, shall be designated as
exempt, professional positions in accordance with State and Federal Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA)
guidelines. The positions shall be salaried, not subject to overtime provisions, and paid in accordance with
Exhibit A.

Section 10.10 Except employees who are required to work on a holiday, compensation for authorized
overtime, call-in, and holiday work shall be paid in the form of compensatory time off or in the form of
compensatory pay at the applicable rate as mutually agreed between the employee and the County.
Employees who are required to work on a holiday will be compensated in accordance with Article 6,
Section 4 unless compensatory time is agreed upon between the employee and department head. All
overtime shall be recorded and must be approved by the department head or designated supervisor. Time
worked for purposes of this Section shall be computed daily, shall not be carried forward from day to day,
and shall be computed to nearest one-quarter (1/4) hour.

Section 10.11 An employee who is required to report for special duty or assignment at any location other
than their regular reporting location and who is required to use their personal automobile for transportation
to such location shall be compensated at the rate established by County Policy.

Section 10.12 Classification of Positions. Class specifications for each of the positions included in the
bargaining unit shall be available in the Human Resources office. The development and maintenance of
such class specifications shall be the exclusive purview of the County. The classification and grade of all
positions in the bargaining unit shall be determined and maintained by an analysis of such relevant job
factors as: knowledge and skill required; supervision received and/or exercised; complexity of tasks
performed; scope and effect of responsibilities; personal contacts made & purpose and depth of such
contracts; physical demands; and work environment. Such an analysis of these job factors, combined with
a relative comparison with other positions in the County, will enable positions that score within relatively
similar ranges to be placed in comparable grades and classifications. The County shall notify the Union ten

                                                                                               6/24/2026        15
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

(10) days prior to any change in the classification or grade of bargaining unit positions. Each new
classification or grade schedule shall become part of this Agreement.

      (A). Employees receiving an upward reclassification shall be placed at the first step of the salary range
for the new classification or the lowest step, which results in a minimum of a 5% wage increase. The
anniversary date for their annual step increase shall not be changed.
      (B). Employees who are reclassified downward as result of a reorganization that results in, or a
reclassification that is the result of substantial changes in the duties and/or responsibilities of a position and
reflected in the new job specifications shall not have their current wage rate reduced. They will be placed
in the new grade and in the step within the new grade that is closest in pay to the current pay, except that
no employee shall receive an increase in wage rate as a result of a downward reclassification. If the
current rate is above any appropriate step within the new grade, the employee’s wage rate shall be redlined
until the wage rate within the new grade reaches or surpasses the redlined amount. The anniversary date
of employees so reclassified shall remain the same. Further, to protect employees from changes made in
grade close to an anniversary date, the following formula will apply in such cases: If a downward
reclassification is effected that would result in the “red-lining” of the employee's wage rate, such effective
employee shall receive their regularly anticipated step increase under the following conditions:

    e    If the downgrade is one grade and the anniversary date is within thirty (30) calendar days.
    e    {f the downgrade is two grades & the anniversary date is within sixty (60) calendar days.
    e    _|f the downgrade is three or more grades and the anniversary date is within (90) calendar days.
         Employees who have been notified of a reduction in classification or who allege that their job might
         justify a higher rated job classification shall be entitled to a meeting with the Union and the County
         to meet and confer regarding the matter.

A 30-day advance notice of a red-line situation resulting from a downgrading of a position shall be made to
the union by the County. Should the red-line action be a decrease of 2 grades or more, a 90-day advance
notice, when possible, shall be made to the union by the County.

Section 10.13 Employees assigned on a temporary basis in excess of two (2) weeks, except as otherwise
provided below, to fulfill the routine responsibilities and duties of the employee being temporarily relieved
shall be paid in accordance with the classification rate prescribed in Exhibit B of the Labor Agreement, or
the employee’s regular rate, whichever is higher. Employees to be temporarily paid at the higher
classification rate shall be placed at the first step or the closest step which would result in a 4-6% increase.
Employees assigned on a temporary basis to a lower job classification shall be paid the rate for their
regular classification. A temporary assignment shall be for a maximum of thirty (30) consecutive working
days, unless otherwise mutually agreed upon between the County and the Union. This section shall not be
applicable for temporary assignments for vacation or for short-term employee training opportunities made
available so that the employee may gain skills on new equipment with the intent of improving their ability to
advance their job skills and qualifications.

Section 10.14 When an employee is temporarily assigned for relief purposes, it shall be the responsibility
of the department head to advise the employee in writing of the nature of the responsibilities expected of
the employee, the rate of pay during the period of the temporary assignment, and if possible, the duration
of the assignment, prior to the temporary assignment for relief purposes. This provision shall be
inapplicable in cases of emergency.

                                                                                                  6/24/2026      16
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

Section 10.15 All regular employees are eligible for Longevity Pay as outlined below, commencing on
their anniversary date with uninterrupted service.

          15 years of service — One (1) additional floating holiday (included in PTO accruals)
          20 years of service — 3% on base pay
          25 years of service — 5% on base pay
          30 years of service — 7% on base pay

                                                    ARTICLE 11
                                           DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE

Section 11.1 Discipline. Disciplinary action shall include the following:

    (A)       Oral reprimand by supervisor and /or Department Head.
    (B)       Meeting with Supervisor & Dept. Head
    (C)       Written Reprimand
    (D)       Suspension
    (E)       Discharge

Disciplinary action may be imposed upon any employee in compliance with management rights outlined in
Article 4, subsection 12 of this Agreement. To the extent appropriate, and to ensure that discipline is
corrective in nature and not purely punitive, disciplinary action should be progressive in nature and
commensurate with the offense. Under ordinary circumstances, progressive discipline actions would entail
oral reprimands, written reprimands, suspensions, demotions and discharge. Disciplinary action may be
imposed upon any employee, in a progressive manner as specified above, or otherwise, for failing to fulfill
their responsibilities as an employee. Conduct reflecting discredit upon the County, or which is a hindrance
to the effective performance of County functions, shall be considered good cause for disciplinary action.
Such cause may also include misconduct, inefficiency, incompetence, insubordination, misfeasance,
malfeasance, the willful giving of false or confidential information or the withholding of information when
making application for employment, or willful violation of departmental rules. An employee subject to
disciplinary action has a right to union representation as provided by law and such discipline may be
protested as a grievance through the grievance procedure outlined in Article 13. If the department head or
other supervisor has reason to discipline an employee, they shall make reasonable efforts to impose such
discipline in a manner that will not embarrass or humiliate the employee before other employees or the
public. It is understood that the order of discipline may start at any level of discipline including discharge for
more serious offenses such as, but not limited to, theft of property, drug and alcohol charges, or flagrant
insubordination.

Section 11.2 Any new employee having less than twelve (12) months of continuous employment under
this Agreement shall serve at the pleasure of the County. An employee having continuous service in
excess of twelve (12) months shall be discharged only for cause. With respect to non-probationary
employees on the date of this Agreement or employees who thereafter have been covered by this
Agreement for twelve (12) consecutive months or more, the following procedure shall apply in cases of
dismissal:

                                                                                                 6/24/2026       17
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

lf the department head or other supervisor determines that there is cause for discharge, they may suspend
the employee without pay for five (5) days and shall deliver to the employee and the Union a written notice
of such suspension and pending dismissal. Such notice shall specify the principal grounds giving rise to
such action. Other factors, which have been considered, may thereafter be specified if the dismissal
becomes the subject of a grievance under Article 13. Unless otherwise resolved, the dismissal shall
become effective at the end of the five (5) day suspension. Protest of the discharge of any employee shall
be made only through the grievance procedure set forth in Article 13. The Union may process a grievance
concerning suspension or discharge, or both, at Step III of the grievance procedure.

                                                   ARTICLE 12
                                            SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES

Section 12.1 Any grievance or dispute which may arise between the parties concerning the application,
meaning, or interpretation of a specific provision of this Agreement shall be settled in the following manner:

Step 1: Since it is the wish of both parties to this agreement to settle any alleged grievance in the most
expeditious and informal manner possible, a grievant shall take up an alleged grievance with their
department head or other supervisor within five (5) working days of the occurrence (or when the grievant
should have reasonably been aware of the occurrence) of said grievance. The department head or
designee shall adjust the matter or schedule an adjustment meeting within five (5) working days.
Settlement in an adjustment meeting shall include the affected employee, the department head or
designated supervisor, the Union Steward or Representative, and the Human Resources Director, who
shall then attempt to adjust the matter within five (5) working days of the meeting. If the matter has not
been resolved and the union has determined that the grievance has merit, a formal grievance will be
presented as outlined in Step 2. Oral warnings or Oral reprimands are not considered to be discipline and
may not be protested through the grievance procedure. Progressive disciplinary Procedures must be
utilized in accordance with Article 12, recognizing that discipline may start at any level for more serious
offenses.

Step 2: If the grievance has not been resolved at Step One, it shall be presented to the Human
Resource/Risk Management Department within seven (7) working days of the date the Step One grievance
response is due. All grievances presented at this step shall set forth: the facts giving rise to the grievance,
the provision(s) of the Agreement alleged to have been violated, the names of the aggrieved employees,
and the remedy being sought. The Human Resource/Risk Management Department shall conduct such
investigation or hearing as is deemed necessary and shall respond in writing to the Board of County
Commissioners and the Union within ten (10) days after receipt of the grievance. The decision of the
HR/Risk Management Officer shall be final and binding on the grievant, Union and the County unless it is
timely appealed by the Union to the next step of the procedure outlined by this Article. Since the burden to
meet all the limitations and parameters of this Article lies with the moving party, failure to meet the filing
time limitations on the part of the moving party shall render the grievance moot and it shall be considered
waived. If the County fails to answer within the time limits set forth in Article 13 of this Agreement, the
grievance shall automatically proceed to the next step. The time limits set forth in this Article may be
extended by mutual agreement of the Union and the County.

Step 3: If the grievance has not been resolved at Step Two, the parties may agree to jointly request
mediation by the Employment Relations Board (ERB) for the State of Oregon. In such case, the mediation

                                                                                               6/24/2026         12
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

shall be promptly scheduled. If the grievance is resolved in mediation, the mediation resolution shall be final
and binding on all parties — the Union, the grievant, and the County.

Step 4: If the parties to not jointly agree to mediation or the mediation is unsuccessful in resolving the
grievance, the Union may provide notice to the County within five (5) working days of the request to
mediate or within five (5) working days of the completion of the mediation its intent to arbitrate the matter
with an arbitrator agreed upon by both the County and the Union. If the parties are unable to agree upon an
arbitrator, the Oregon State Mediation and Conciliation Service shall be requested to submit a list of eleven
(11) arbitrators. Both the County and the Union shall have the right to strike five (5) names from the list.
The party requesting arbitration shall strike the first name and the other party shall then strike one (1)
name. The process shall be repeated and the remaining person shall be the arbitrator. The designated
arbitrator shall hear both parties and take testimony and evidence in a hearing on the disputed matter and
shall issue a decision which shall be final and binding on the parties if within the scope of this Agreement.
Expenses for the arbitrator shall be borne by the losing party; however, each party shall be responsible for
compensating its own representatives and witnesses. If either party desires a verbatim recording of the
proceedings, it may cause such a record to be made, provided it pays for the record and makes a copy
available without charge to the arbitrator. If the other party desires a copy, both parties shall jointly share
the cost of the transcript and all copies. The time limits prescribed in this Article 13 shall be binding on all
parties and shall be jurisdictional in nature unless extended by mutual consent.

Section 12.2 Employees selected by the Union to act as Union representatives shall be known as
“stewards”. There shall be no more than four (4) stewards. The names of the employees selected as
stewards, and the names of local Union representatives, state council or international representatives who
may represent employees, shall be certified in writing to the County by the Union. Duties required by the
Union of stewards, excepting attendance at joint meetings with supervisory personnel and aggrieved
employees arising out of a grievance already initiated by an employee under Section 1 hereof, shall not
interfere with their or other employees’ regular work assignments as employees or the Union, except the
aforementioned meetings, shall be made outside of working hours.

Section 12.3 The County or its designee(s) shall meet at mutually convenient times to discuss pending
grievances with the Union committee. All committee meetings with the County shall be held, if practicable,
during working hours and without loss of pay to authorized participating employees. The Union committee
shall consist of two (2) members selected by the Union. The purpose of grievance committee meetings will
be to adjust pending grievances. In addition, the committee may discuss with the County other issues
which would improve relationships between the parties. Prior notice of topics for discussion at such
meetings shall be furnished by each party to the other.

                                                   ARTICLE 13
                                              PROBATIONARY PERIOD

Section 13.1 The probationary period is an integral part of the employees selection process and provides
the County with the opportunity to upgrade and improve efficiency of operation and service to the public by
observing a new employee's work, training and aiding new employees in adjustment to their positions, and
by providing an opportunity to reject any employee whose work performance fails to meet required work
standards.

                                                                                                6/24/2026      19
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

Section 13.2 Duration of Probationary Period. Every new employee hired into the bargaining unit shall
serve a performance probationary period of twelve (12) full months. Note: This should not be confused
with the six (6) month waiting period for the use of most employee benefits. The probationary period shall
also be extended to transferred or promoted employees. An employee serving a probationary period as a
result of a transfer or promotion who does not satisfactorily complete the probationary period, or who elects
to step-back from the new position, shall be returned to their former position and former rate of pay.

Section 13.3 The Union recognizes the right of the County to terminate probationary employees for any
reason and to exercise all rights not specifically modified by this Agreement with respect to such
employees, including, but not limited to, the shifting of work schedules and job classifications, the
assignment of on-the-job training, cross-training in other classifications, the assignment to educational
courses and training programs, the requirement that such employees attend training programs on their off-
duty time for which they will be paid on a straight-time basis or by the granting of compensatory time off for
any reason, at any time during this 12 month period.

                                                   ARTICLE 14
                                              GENERAL OPERATIONS

Section 14.1 The provisions of the Agreement shall be applied equally to all employees in the bargaining
unit without discrimination as to marital status, race, color, creed, national origin, sex, union membership, or
the absence thereof. The Union shall share equally with the County the responsibility for applying the
provisions of the Agreement.

All references to employees in this Agreement designate both sexes, and wherever the male gender is
used, it shall be construed to include male and female employees.

Employees shall have the right to form, join, and participate in the activities of the Union or any other labor
organization, or to refrain from any or all such activities, and there shall be no discrimination by either the
County or the Union by reason of the exercise of such right except as specifically provided herein. Nothing
in this Agreement shall be construed as precluding or limiting the right of an individual employee to
represent her/himself in individual personal matters or to adjust his own grievances, provided that the
Union, upon request, shall be entitled to be present and, provided further, that any such adjustment shall
not be inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement.

Section 14.2 The County agrees to furnish and maintain a suitable bulletin board in a convenient place or
places to be used by the Union. The Union shall limit its posting of notices and bulletins to such bulletin
board.

Section 14.3 The County agrees that accredited representatives of the District Council of Laborers and
Laborers Union, Local 737, upon reasonable and proper introduction, shall have reasonable access to the
premises of the County at any time during working hours for the purpose of assisting in the administration
of this Agreement.

Section 14.4 Only such existing and future work rules and benefits as are specifically covered by the terms
of this Agreement shall be affected by recognition of the Union and the execution of this Agreement. The
benefits provided by this Agreement shall be exclusive and shall be in lieu of all economic or related
benefits heretofore provided by the County, specifically, but not limited to, any bonus or longevity pay, merit

                                                                                                6/24/2026     20
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

pay, or sick leave bonus, provided, however, that nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to prohibit or
limit the right of the County to pay an employee at a rate higher than the rates specified herein. Whenever
any conditions are changed or new conditions are established, they shall be posted prominently on all
bulletin boards for a period of ten (10) consecutive workdays.

Section 14.5 Rules. The parties jointly recognize that as elected officials the Board of County
Commissioners is directly responsible to the citizens of the County and the public generally for performance
of the functions and services performed by the County. These responsibilities cannot be delegated. For
this reason, it is jointly recognized that the Board of County Commissioners must retain broad authority to
fulfill and implement its responsibilities and may do so by work rule, oral or written, existing or future. It is
agreed, however, that no work rule will be promulgated or implemented which is inconsistent with a specific
provision of this Agreement, provided that the requirements of Oregon law will always be paramount. All
work rules which have been or shall be reduced to writing will be furnished to the Union and to affected
employees.

Section 14.6 Seniority. This shall be defined as the total length of unbroken service within the employing
departments covered by this Agreement. In the event of transfer between departments, an employee's
seniority shall be measured by his or her most recent period of continuous service with the County for
accrual of all County benefits.

Section 14.7 Other Employment. Outside employment shall be cleared with an employee's department
head and be permitted to the extent it complies with Article 1.2(F) — “Outside Employment’.

Section 14.8 Promotional Opportunities. It is the intent of this Agreement that wherever possible
promotional opportunities within the bargaining unit shall first be extended to employees in the bargaining
unit, provided such employees are considered by the County to be qualified to perform the work in
question. The County shall be under no obligation to train an employee to become qualified, but shall give
preference to present employees who are qualified and apply for such a job opening. An employee's
immediate supervisor or supervisors shall be the judge of an employee's qualification and ability and upon
request will state the reasons for such a judgment to the employee. In the event two (2) or more applicants
for a job opening are satisfactorily qualified in the areas of knowledge, skills and abilities, seniority shall
govern except fo the extent the Veteran's Preference Law applies. Promotions within individual
departments can be accomplished, upon approval from the Director of Human Resources, without following
the normal posting requirements. Whenever feasible, the County will post notice of non-bargaining unit job
opportunities. The County is supportive of more senior, experienced employees being given an opportunity
to apply for a position with a more desirable shift in their own department; however, the final decision is
retained by management given a supported and objective reasoning for scheduling and work assignment
rationale and compliance with the Veteran’s Preference law..

Section 14.9 Layoff. In the event of a curtailment in a department, employees within the department will be
laid off in inverse order of seniority, within their job classification, subject to qualifications and ability to
perform the work. An employee who is laid off, and who has previously held a non-probationary
appointment within the past year in a lower classification, may elect to displace the least senior employee
within the lower classification within the department. Any employee bumping to a lower classification, as
described herein, shall assume the same step within the new classification that was held in the old
classification, (i.e., an employee at Range 12, Step 3 bumping to Range 10 would assume the pay rate at
Step 3 of the new Range).

                                                                                                 6/24/2026      1
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

Section 14.10 Recall. Recall from layoff, as provided in Section 15.9, shall be in inverse order of layoff.
Employees shall be eligible for recall for a period of six (6) months from date of layoff. Employees who are
eligible for recall shall be given no less than fourteen (14) calendar days’ notice of recall; notice of recall
shall be sent to the employee by certified or registered mail with a copy to the Union, provided that the
employee must notify the Department Head of their intention to return within three (3) days after receiving
notice of recall. The County shall be deemed to have fulfilled its obligations by mailing the recall notice by
certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, to the mailing address provided by the employee,
regardless of the party within the household that signs for the delivery. It is the obligation and responsibility
of the employee to provide the Human Resources Department with their latest mailing address.

Section 14.11 Special Conditions. Special conditions affecting employees in particular departments are
set forth in Exhibit C hereto. Such specific conditions shall prevail only as to departments specifically
identified in Exhibit C.

Section 14.12 Should negotiating sessions with the County be scheduled during work hours, bargaining
unit stewards attending collective bargaining sessions shall not suffer loss of pay or benefits for such time
they are on authorized released time from work. Stewards shall notify the proper supervisor as soon as
possible upon learning when negotiating sessions are scheduled. The date, time, and place for negotiation
sessions shall be established with the intent to reasonably avoid or minimize paid time for the Union's
negotiating team.

                                              ARTICLE 15
                                  HEALTH AND WELFARE AND RETIREMENT

Section 15.1 Health and Welfare. The County shall provide health and medical coverage comparable to
the present coverage of major medical for each eligible employee covered by this Agreement.

          (A) Effective July 1, 2026 the County will contribute $1,780.00 per month towards the cost of each
eligible employee's medical, dental, and vision insurance. Dental and vision insurance will be at the option
of the employee. Any excess amount will go to the employee's HRA/VEBA or HSA account.
          Effective July 1, 2027, the County will contribute $1,830.00 per month towards the cost of each
eligible employee's medical, dental, and vision insurance. Dental and vision insurance will be at the option
of the employee. Any excess amount will go to the employee's HRA/VEBA or HSA account.
          Effective July 1, 2028, the County will contribute $1,880.00 per month towards the cost of each
eligible employee’s medical, dental, and vision insurance. Dental and vision insurance will be at the option
of the employee. Any excess amount will go to the employee's HRA/VEBA or HSA account.
Any required premium in excess of the amounts contributed by the County will be paid by each employee.
The County may apply minor cost cutting techniques to the major medical (or comparable) plans and to
adjust the medical plan contract year. Such payment shall be applied to purchased group medical and
hospital, major medical, dental, vision, prescription, group life and weekly time loss benefits. There will be
no duplication of premiums paid under this Agreement in the event an employee and their spouse are both
eligible for coverage hereunder. In such event, the dependent that waives the insurance shall receive the
HRA/VEBA or HSA contribution amount as outlined in (D) below.

          (B) Life and Disability Insurance. All premiums listed in this Article are exclusive of life insurance
group life, $5,000 death benefit, and weekly time loss benefits, which shall be fully paid by the County.

                                                                                                   6/24/2026       22
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

          (C) Health Reimbursement Arrangement/Voluntary Employees’ Beneficiary Associate
(HRA/VEBA). The County agrees to provide as an option to administer and contribute through payroll
deduction for each employee, meeting the eligibility requirements into a HRA/VEBA plan. HRA/VEBA plans
provide a tax-free defined contribution account for employees to pay for medical, dental, vision and tax
qualified long-term care premiums and non-covered healthcare expenses pursuant to Internal Revenue
Code (IRC) 213D. The plan does not require a vesting period and HRA/VEBA funds may be used at any
time for a qualified expense after the employee’s plan account has been established.

         (D) Employer contribution in lieu of medical insurance. Eligibility is limited to employees waiving
medical insurance coverage and providing proof of coverage under another qualified medical insurance
plan. Employer shall contribute a flat monthly amount into the eligible employee's HRA/VEBA account
equivalent to 75% of the County’s maximum contribution as set forth in Section 16.1(A) above.

Section 15.2 Retirement. The County agrees to continue providing retirement benefits to employees hired
on or before December 31, 2020, under the terms and provisions of the Klamath County Employees’
Pension Plan. Employees hired on or after January 1, 2021, will receive retirement benefits in accordance
with the County's defined contribution plan on the same terms and conditions applicable to the County's
non-represented employees.

                                                  ARTICLE 16
                                           WORKERS’ COMPENSATION

All employees are covered for accidents on the job under the Workers’ Compensation laws of Oregon.
When an injured employee must take time off by reason of occupational injury or disability, the employee
will receive time-loss payments from the County's Workers’ Compensation insurer. In addition,
supplemental benefits will be provided as follows on approved Workers’ Compensation claims:
     e The first three (3) months following an on-the-job injury and an approved workers’ compensation
          claim, the County will supplement the employee's time-loss benefits in an amount necessary to
          equal the injured employee's net regular salary after taxes.
     e After three (3) months following the date of an on-the-job injury, accrued sick leave, vacation, and
          compensatory time may be used to supplement the employee's time-loss benefits in an amount
          necessary to equal the injured employee's net regular salary after taxes.
     e Following the exhaustion of the employee's benefits, the employee shall receive Workers’
         Compensation as provided under State Law.

                                                     ARTICLE 17
                                               LIABILITY INSURANCE

The County shall purchase liability insurance in such amounts and containing such terms and conditions as
are deemed appropriate by the County for the protection of all employees, and all other persons covered by
this Agreement against claims against them incurred in or arising out of any authorized act in the
performance of their official duties. The premiums for such insurance shall be paid by the County.

                                                                                                6/24/2026      23
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

                                                 ARTICLE 18
                                        SAVINGS CLAUSE AND FUNDING

Section 18.1 Savings Clause. If any term or provision of the Agreement is, at any time during the life of
this Agreement, adjudged by a court or administrative body of competent jurisdiction to be in conflict with
any law, such term or provision shall become invalid and unenforceable, but such invalidity or
unenforceability shall not impair or effect any other term or provision of this Agreement. Upon issuance of
such a decision, the parties agree to negotiate a substitute, if possible, for the invalidated article, section, or
portion thereof.

Section 18.2 Funding. The parties recognize that revenue needed to fund the wages and benefits
provided by the Agreement are subject to established annual budget procedures and in certain
circumstances by vote of the citizens of the County. All such wages and benefits are therefore contingent
upon sources of revenue, approval pursuant to established budget procedures, and where applicable,
annual voter budget approval. The County has no intention of cutting the wages and benefits specified in
this Agreement because of budgetary limitation, but cannot and does not guarantee any level of
employment in the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement. The County agrees to include in its annual
budget request amounts sufficient to fund the wages and benefits provided by this Agreement, but makes
no guarantee as to passage of such budget requests or voter approval thereof.

Section 18.3 During the negotiations resulting in this Agreement, the County and the Union each had the
unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to any subject matter as to
which relevant statutes impose an obligation to bargain. Except as specifically set forth elsewhere in this
Agreement, the parties expressly waives their right to negotiate over matters as to which relevant statutes
impose an obligation to bargain. This Agreement contains the entire understanding, undertaking, and
agreement of the County and the Union, after exercise of the right and opportunity referred to in the first
sentence of this section; and finally determines all matters of collective bargaining for its term. Changes in
this Agreement, whether by amendment, or waiver, deletion, amendment, or modification, must be reduced
to writing and executed by both parties.

                                                     ARTICLE 19
                                                   DRUG TESTING

Section 19.1 Klamath County considers its employees to be a valuable asset and promotes a safe and
healthy workplace for all County employees. The County recognizes the importance of maintaining an
employment workplace which is free of alcoho! and drug abuse and has chosen to maintain compliance
with the federal regulations governing the Drug Free Workplace Act of 1988. Therefore, as determined by
management, employees will be subject to mandatory or random drug testing. Policies and procedures
relative to drug and alcohol testing and resulting action(s) shall be performed in accordance with the
Alcohol and Drug Abuse Policy, attached hereto as Exhibit D.

Section 19.2 In accordance with Exhibit D, employees understand that a requirement for initial employment
and continued employment by Klamath County shall involve successful completion of drug and/or alcohol
testing. Employees may be asked from time to time to submit to an alcohol and/or drug test, with or without
individual cause to test. Employees also agree and give consent for Klamath County and the facility
designated by Klamath County to both collect and perform tests on samples of my urine and/or blood to

                                                                                                  6/24/2026       24
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

identify the presence of alcohol, illegal drugs, legal drugs and other substances which might adversely
affect job performance.

                                                  ARTICLE 20
                                         TERMINATION AND REOPENING

This Agreement will be effective July 1, 2026 and will terminate June 30, 2029. This Agreement will be
subject for opening of modifications with written notice no later than January 1, 2029.

                                                                                             6/24/2026    25
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

                                                       EXHIBIT A

                                                          LOCAL 737
                                                   Salaried, FLSA Exempt
                                                 Effective July 1,2026 2%
                                            COLA
    GRADE | STEP1 | STEP2 | STEP3 | STEP4                     Merit       Merit       Merit
           $3,815.98 | $3,969.60 | $4,127.96 | $4,293.41 | $4,464.76 | $4,643.22 | $4,828.77
  LF16
           $4,007.43 | $4,168.14 | $4,334.78 | $4,508.49 | $4,689.31 | $4,876.04 | $5,071.03
  LF17
  LF18     $4,208.33 | $4,376.15 | $4,551.05 | $4,733.03 | $4,922.11 | $5,120.66 | $5,323.93
  LF19     $4,418.68 | $4,572.31 | $4,779.13 | $4,970.58 | $5,169.12 | $5,375.93 | $5,591.01
  LF20     $4 639.67 | $4,825.21 | $5,017.85 | $5,218.75 | $5,427.93 | $5,645.36 | $5,869.92
  LF21     $4 871.31 | $5,066.30 | $5,268.38 | $5,478.75 | $5,698.56 | $5,926.64 | $6,164.19
  LF22     $5,114.76 | $5,319.20 | $5,531.92 | $5,752.92 | $5,984.54 | $6,223.28 | $6,472.62
  LF23     $5 371.20 | $5,586.29 | $5,808.45 | $6,041.28 | $6,282.35 | $6,534.08 | $6,795.25
  LF24     $5,639.48 | $5,865.18 | $6,100.37 | $6,342.63 | $6,597.88 | $6,860.25 | $7,135.60
  LF25     $5,921.92 | $6,157.10 | $6,404.08 | $6,660.53 | $6,926.42 | $7,202.95 | $7,492.49
  LF26     $6217.36 | $6,465.53 | $6,724.33 | $6,993.79 | $7,273.88 | $7,563.40 | $7,867.13
  LF27     $6,526.99 | $6,789.33 | $7,061.14 | $7,343.59 | $7,637.86 | $7,941.57 | $8,260.65

                                                                            6/24/2026   26
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

                                                          LOCAL 737
                                                   Full-Time and Half-Time
                                                  Hourly, FLSA Non-Exempt
                                                 Effective July 1, 2026 2%
                                                               COLA
                                                                                STEP 5    STEP 6     STEP 7
   GRADE            STEP 1          STEP 2           STEP 3           STEP 4     Merit     Merit       Merit
    LHO9            $15.65          $16.27           $16.93           $17.61   $18.31    $19.04      $19.80
    LH10            $16.43          $17.10           917.77           $18.48   $19.22    $19.98      $20.77
    LH11            $17.24          $17.94           $18.66           $19.40   $20.19    $20.99      $21.83
    LH12            $18.11          $18.82           919.58           $20.36   $21.20    $22.04      $22.91
    LH13            $19.01          $19.76           $20.56           $21.37   $22.22    $23.12      924.05
    LH14            $19.96          $20.75           921.58           $22.45   $23.34    924.27      $25.23
    LH15            $20.96          921.80           $22.67           $23.57   $24.52    925.50      926.52
    LH16            $22.00          $22.86           $23.80           924.77   $25.76    $26.78      $27.86
    LH17            $23.09          $24.02           $24.97           $25.97   $27.00    $28.08      $29.20
    LH18            $24.25          $25.21           $26.22           $27.27   $28.37    $29.51      $30.69
    LH19            $25.47          $26.49           $27.55           $28.64   $29.78    $30.97      $32.21
    LH20            $26.72          $27.80           $28.92           $30.08   $31.26    $32.52      933.81
    LH21            $28.07          $29.19           $30.37           $31.58   $32.83    $34.15      $35.50
    LH22            $29.47          $30.66           $31.88           $33.15   $34.46    $35.83      $37.26
    LH23            $30.94          $32.18           $33.46           $34.78   $36.17    $37.62      $39.13
    LH24            $32.49          $33.78           930.14           $36.56   $38.02    $39.54      $41.13
    LH25            $34.11          935.47           936.89           $38.37   $39.90    $41.50      943.18
    LH26            $35.81          $37.24           $38.74           $40.28   $41.89    $43.55      $45.30
    LH27            $37.60          $39.11           $40.67           $42.30   $43.98    $45.75      $47.56

                                                                                         6/24/2026   27
            Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

                                                               LOCAL 737
                                                        Salaried, FLSA Exempt
                    Effective July 1, 2027        2.5% COLA

GRADE|       STEP 1          STEP 2         STEP 3          STEP 4 | STEP 5              Merit | STEP 6      Merit         STEP 7
                                                                                                                            Merit

(F16     =| $ 3,911.38    |$ 4,068.84     |$ 4,231.16     |$ 4,400.75 | $4,576.38               5 4,759.30           $ 4,949.49
LF17       =|$ 4,107.62   |$ 4,272.34 | $4,443.15         |$ 4,621.20      |$ 4,806.54          $ 4,997.94           $ 5,197.81
LF18     =| $4,313.54     |$ 4,485.55     |$ 4,664.83 | $4,851.36 | $5,045.16                   $ 5,248.68           $ 5,457.03
LF19       |$4,529.15     |$ 4,686.62 | $4,898.61         |$ 5,094.84 | $5,298.35               $ 5,510.33           $ 5,730.79
LF20       |$ 4,755.66    |$ 4,945.84 | $5,143.30         |$ 5,349.22 | $5,563.63               $ 5,786.49           $ 6,016.67
LF21       |$4,993.09     |$5,192.96      |$5,400.09      |$5,615.72 | $5,841.02                $ 6,074.81           $ 6,318.29
LF22       ($5,242.63     |$5,452.18      |$5,670.22      |$ 5,896.74 | $6,134.15               $ 6,378.86           $ 6,634.44
1F23       |$5,505.48     |$5,725.95 | $5,953.66          ($6,192.31       |$ 6,439.41          $ 6,697.43           $ 6,965.13
LF24       |$5,780.47     |$6,011.81 | $6,252.88 | $6,501.20 | $6,762.83                        $ 7,031.76           $ 7,313.99
LF25       |$6,069.97     |$6,311.03      |$ 6,564.18 | $6,827.04 | $7,099.58                   $ 7,383.02           $ 7,679.80
LF26       |$6,372.79     |$6,627.17      |$6,892.44      |$ 7,168.63      |$ 7,455.73          $ 7,752.49           $ 8,063.81
LF27       |$6,690.16     |$6,959.06 | $7,237.67          |$ 7,527.18      |$ 7,828.81          $ 8,140.11           $ 8,467.17

                                                                                                             6/24/2026      28
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

                                                 Full-Time and Half-Time
                                                Hourly, FLSA Non-Exempt
                                         Effective July 1,2027      2.5% COLA
 GRADE|           STEP 1          STEP 2         STEP 3       STEP 4 | STEP 5 Merit | STEP
                                                                                        6 Merit | STEP
                                                                                                    7 Merit
  LHOS    | $         16.04 | $       16.68 | $    17.35 | $    18.05 | $    18.771   $   19.52 | §        20,30
  LH10   |$           16.84 | $      17.53 | $     18.211 $     18.94 | $    19.70 | $    20.48 | $        21.29
  LHi1 | $            17.67 | $      18.39 | $     19.13 1$     19.89 | $    20.69 | $    21.511 $         22.38
  LH12 | $            18.56 | $      19.29 | $     20.07 | $    20.87 | $    21.73 | $    22.59 | $        23.48
  LH13 | $            19.49 | $      20.25 | $     21.07 | $    21.90 | $    22.781 $     23.70 | $        24.65
  LH14   |$           20.46 | $      21.271 $      22.12 | $    23.011 $     23.92 | $    24.88 | $        25.86
  LH15    | $         21.48 | $       22.35 | $    23.24 | $    24.16 | $    25.13 | §$   26.14 | $        27.18
  LH16 | $            22.55 | $      23.431 $      24.40 | $    25.39 | $    26.40 | $    27.451 $         28.56
  LH17 | $            23.67 | $      24.62 | $     25.59 | $    26.62 | $    27.68 | $    28.78 | $        29.93
  LH18 | $            24.86 | $      25.84 | $     26.88 | $    27.95 | $    29.08 | $    30.25 | $        31.46
  LH19    | $         26.11 | $       27.151   $   28.24 | $    29.36 | $    30.52 | $    31.741   §$      33.02
  LH20    | $         27.39 | $      28.50 | $     29.64 | $    30.83 | $    32.04 | $    33.33 | $        34.66
  LH21       |$       28.771 $       29.92 | $     31.13 | $    32.37 | $    33.65 | $    35.00 | $        36.39
  LH22       |$       30.211 $       31.43 | $     32.68 | $    33.98 | $    35.32 | $    36.73 | $        38.19
  LH23     | $        31.711 $       32.98 | $     34.30 | $    35.65 | $    37.07 | $    38.56 | $        40.11
  LH24     | $        33.30 | $      34.62 | $     36.02 | $    37.47 | $    38.97 | $    40.53 | $        42.16
  LH25     | $        34.96 | $      36.36 | $     37.81 | $    39.33 | $    40.90 | $    42.541 $         44.26
  LH26    | $         36.711 $       38.171 $      39.71 | $    41.29 | $    42.94 | $    44.641 $         46.43
  LH27       |$       38.54 | $      40.09 | $     41.69 | $    43,36 | $    45.08 | $    46.89 | $        48.75

                                                                                               6/24/2026           29
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

                                                     LOCAL 737
                                             Salaried, FLSA Exempt
                                     Effective July 1,2028     2.5% COLA
                                                                               STEP 5           STEP 6          STEP 7
 GRADE         STEP 1         STEP 2          STEP 3           STEP 4           Merit            Merit           Merit
 LF16      $     4009.16/$     4,17056/$       4,336.941$        4510.77|$       4,690.791$        4,878.28|$     5,073.23
 LF17      $     4210.311$     4,379151$       4554.23|$         4,736.73|$      4,926.70}$       5,122.891$      5,327.76
 LF18      $     4421.381$     4,597.69)$       4,781.451$       497264)$        5 171.2919       5379.90|%       5,593.46
 LF19      $     464238/$      4,803.791$        5,021.08)$      5,222.21)$      5,430.81|$       5,648.09|}$     5,874.06
 LF20      $    4874.551$       5,069.49}$      5,.271.88|$      5482.95|$       5,702.72|$        5,931.15|$     6,167.09
 LF21      $     5117.921$      5,322.78)$      5,535.09|$       5,756.111$      5,987.05|$       6,22668)$       6,476.25
 LF22      $     §,373.70|$     5,588.48)$      5811.981$         6,044.16|$       6,287.50|$      6,538.33}$     6,800.30
 LF23      $     5643.121$      5869.10/$       6,102.50}$       6347.12|$       6600.40}$        6864.87/$       7,139.26
 LF24      $     5924981$       6162111$        6,409.20|$       6663.73/$       6931.90|$        7,207.55|$      7,496.84
 LF25      $     6,221.721$     6,468.81|$      6,728.28|$       6,997.72|$      7,277.07|$       7,567.60}$      7,871.80
 LF26      $     6,532.11/$    6,792.85|$       7,064.75)$       7,347.85|$      7,642.12}$       7,946.30|3      8,265.41
 LF27      $     6857.411$      7,133.04|$      7,418611$        7,715.361$      802453)$          8343.61|$      8678.85

                                                                                                         6/24/2026       30
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

                                             Full-Time and Half-Time
                                            Hourly, FLSA Non-Exempt
                                     Effective July 1,2028      2.5% COLA
 GRADE      STEP 1        STEP 2         STEP 3        STEP 4      STEP 5 Merit | STEP 6 Merit | STEP 7 Merit
  LHO9 | $      16.44 | $     17.10 | $      17.78 | $     18.50 | $      19.24 | $      20.01 | $      20.81
  LH10   |$     17.26 | $     17.97 | $      18.67 | $     19.41 | $      20.19 | $      20.99 | $      21.82
  LH11 | $      18.11 | $     18.85 | $      19.61 | $     20.39 | $      21.21 | $      22.05 | $      22.94
  LH12   |$     19.02 | $     19.77 | $      20.57 | $     21.39 | $      22.27 | $      23.15 | $      24.07
  LH13 | $      19.98 | $     20.76 | $      21.60 | $     22.45 | $      23.35 | $      24.29 | $      25.27
  LH14 | $      20.97 | $     21.80 | $      22.67 | $     23.59 | $      24.52 | $      25.50 | $      26.51
  LH15 | $      22.02 | $     22.91 | $      23.82 | $     24.76 | $      25.76 | $      26.79 | $      27.86
  LH16 | $      23.11 | $     24.02 | $      25.01 | $     26.02 | $      27.06 | $      28.14 | $      29.27
  LH17 | $      24.26 | $     25.24 | §$     26.23 | $     27.29 | $      28.37 | $      29.50 | $      30.68
  LH18   |$     25.48 | $     26.49 | $      27.59 | $     28.65 | $      29.81 | $      31.01 | $      32.29
  LH19 | $      26.76 | $     27.83 | $      28.95 | $     30.09 | $      31.28 | $      32.53 | $      33.85
  LH20 | $      28.07 | $     29.21 | $      30.38 | $     31.60 | $      32.84 | $      34.16 | $      35.53
  LH21 | 3      29.49 | $     30.67 | $      31.91 | $     33.18 | $      34.49 | $      35.88 | $      37.30
  LH22 | $      30.97 | $     32.22 | $      33.50 | $     34.83 | $      36.20 | $      37.65 | $      39.14
  LH23 | $      32.50 | $     33.80 | $      35.16 | $     36.54 | $      38.00 | $      39.52 | $      41.11
  LH24 | $      34.13 | $     35.49 | $      36.92 | $     38.41 | $      39.94 | $      41.54 | $      43.21
  LH25 | $      35.83 | $     37.27 | $      38.76 | $     40.31 | $      41.92 | $      43.60 | $      45.37
  LH26 | $      37.63 | $     39.12 | $      40.70 | $     42.32 | $      44.01 | $      45.76 | $      47.59
_LH27 | $       39.50 | $     41.09 | $      42.73 | $     44.44 | §      46.211 $       48.06 | $      49.97

                                                                                              6/24/2026     31
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

                                                      EXHIBIT B

                                       Position                   Salary

 Library Branch Assistant
 Solid Waste Site Attendant                                         10
 Office Technician                                                  11
 Library Asst III                                                   12
 Office
 Specialist
 Client/Patient Regis                                               13
 Corrections Cook
 Justice Court Clerk PT
 Maintenance Worker I!
Park
 Museum Maint Tech II
 Custodian                                                         14
 Mus Eng/Venue Coor
 Lead Justice Court
 Clerk
 Outreach Coordinator
 Recording Specialist
 Senior Indexing Specialist

 Administrative Support Coordinator                                15
 Community Nutrition Worker
 Eligibility Specialist Coordinator
 Facilities Maintenance Specialist
 Food Services Manager
 Permit Clerk
 Program Support Coordinator
 Senior Community Corr Asst
 Veterans Service Specialist
 Acquisitions Manager                                               16
 Community Nutrition Worker
 Certified Medical Assistant
 Juvenile Groupworker
 Maintenance Technician Ill
 Outreach Manager
 Program Aide

                                                                  6/24/2026   32
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

 Tax/Property Specialist
 Work Crew Leader
 Accounting Specialist                                          L/
 Billing Coord - PH
 Fiscal Specialist
 KCR Direct Care Staff
 Landfill Maintenance Worker
 Landfill Mechanic
 Landfill Operator
 Legal Assistant Ill
 Legal/Trial Assistant II
 Maintenance Leadworker
 Senior Work Crew Leader
 Assessment Specialist                                          18
 Code Enforcement Officer
 Quality Assurance Analyst
 Registration Technician
 Sr Finance Accounting Specialist
 Permit Technician                                              19
 Trial/Legal Asst III
 Victim’s Asst Specialist
 Appraiser |                                                    20
 Juvenile Counselor
 KCR Case Mgr
 Services Coordinator
 Sr Permit Tech
 TAG Program Coordinator
 Victim's Asst Caseworker
 DDS Eligibility Specialist                                     21
 DDS Assessor
 IT Analyst
 Maint/HVAC Tech
 Program Coord Il
 Protective Services Investigator Spec
 Epidemiologist                                                 22
 Facilities Control System/Fleet Mgr
 Lead Services Coord
 Asst Veterans Services Officer                                 23
 Environmental Health Spec |
 IT Media Spec
 Modernization Environmental Health Spec
 Residential Plans Examiner — Multi-Family
 Building Insp III                                               24
                                                               6/24/2026   33
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

 Evidence Comp Tech Trial Asst
 Property Appraiser III
 Comm Electrical Inspector                                      26
 Comm Plumbing Inspector
 senior GIS Analyst                                             Pi
 Systems Administrator                                         ie 7

                                                               6/24/2026   34
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

                                                      EXHIBIT C

         PROVISIONS TO COVER “SPECIAL CONDITIONS” OF PARTICULAR DEPARTMENTS
         The following provisions are intended to cover special conditions which affect only the particular
         departments which are identified below.

         1.   Museum
              The museum schedule and all other Museum policies and procedures shall be set by the
              Board of County Commissioners. If the Board of Commissioners determines to change the
              museum schedule, the employees and the Union shall be notified at least two (2) weeks in
              advance of a permanent change of schedule, except in the case of emergency.

         2.   Dog Control
              The County will replace clothing which is destroyed in the line of duty.

         3.   Assessor's Department
              Employees for the Assessor's Office may also be granted time off with pay, not to exceed a
              regular straight time day, for educational purposes for a reasonable period of time, to attend
              conferences, seminars, briefing sessions, training programs, and other programs of similar
              nature, that are intended to improve or upgrade the employee’s skill and professional ability,
              when recommended by the State or the employee's department head and approved in each
              instance by the Board of County Commissioners. Such employees shall be reimbursed for
              meals and lodging at the rates established under general County policy at the time involved
              upon submission of the travel reimbursement form in use by the County. Upon
              recommendation by the department head, a reasonable allowance may be advanced to an
              employee.

         4.   Library
              The library schedule and all other Library policies and procedures shall be as set by the Library
              Service District Board, provided that if the Board determines to change the Library schedule,
              the employees and the Union shall be notified at least two (2) weeks in advance of a
              permanent change of schedule, except in the case of an emergency.

         5.   Solid Waste
              Uniform coveralls shall be provided to select solid waste division employees working in the
              landfill operation section. Regular cleaning of these uniforms shall also be provided by the
              County to those uniformed employees. If the County decides to close the Landfill on an Easter
              Sunday, the benefit eligible employees that are regularly scheduled to work Easter Sunday
              shall be compensated paid leave for that day.

         6.   Juvenile Counselors
              Job related telephone services which occur after the employee's regular working hours shall be
              reimbursed as compensation time in half hour (1/2) increments with a minimum of one hour,
              which is earned at one and one-half (1 ‘4) times the employee's regular rate of pay. In no
              event may an employee compound earning call back pay for the same two hour period.

                                                                                               6/24/2026       35
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

                                               EXHIBIT D
                                  APPLICANT AND EMPLOYEE CONSENT TO
                                       ALCOHOL AND DRUG TESTING

                                                         COPY

| understand that a requirement for initial employment and continued employment by Klamath County may
involve successful completion of drug and/or alcohol testing. | understand that if | am hired as an employee
of Klamath County, | may be asked from time to time to submit to an alcohol and/or drug test, with or
without individual cause to test, and | hereby consent to such testing.

By my signature below, | hereby agree and give my consent to Klamath County and the facility designated
by Klamath County to both collect and perform such tests on samples of my urine and/or blood to identify
the presence of alcohol, illegal drugs, legal drugs and other substances which might adversely effect job
performance.

| authorize the testing facility to provide test results to Klamath County for its use in determining compliance
with their Alcohol and Drug Abuse Policy, | release Klamath County from all liability and claims incident to
such sample-taking, testing and disclosure of test results by the testing facility.

| understand that if | am hired, any failure to give written consent, without qualifications, to subsequent drug
and alcoho! testing, or failure to provide samples for such testing will be considered insubordination and
grounds for immediate suspension and/or termination.

| understand that | will not be hired if my test results are positive, but may reapply after one year and be
considered for employment on the same basis as a new applicant. | also understand that if | begin work
prior to Klamath County’s receipt of the test results, | am a contingent and temporary employee and will
immediately be terminated if the results are positive.

                                                                Applicant or Employee’s Name (Print)

                                                                Applicant or Employee's Signature

                                                                Klamath County Representative

                                                                Date

                                            ALCOHOL AND DRUG ABUSE POLICY

                                                                                                6/24/2026      36
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

Klamath County has an obligation to its employees, and those who come into contact with the County, to
insure safe working conditions. To meet that obligation and to further our commitment to promote high
standards of employee performance, productivity, health, safety, and reliability, Klamath County has
established this alcohol and drug policy.

Klamath County's focus is to assist those employees seeking treatment and rehabilitation through the
employee assistance program. We encourage employees needing help to contact us.

POLICY
This policy covers all employees of Klamath County who are part of the Laborer's 737 Bargaining Unit.
Klamath County requires you to report for work in a condition that will permit you to perform your duties
safely and efficiently. Klamath County recognizes that an employee's off the job and on the job
involvement with alcohol or drugs can have an impact on the work environment. The following information
clearly outlines the County's position regarding the use or possession of alcohol or drugs on the job.

A.   Employees shall not:

     1.   Report for work with the presence of a controlled substance, intoxicant, or illegal drug in their
          system.
     2.   Engage in the unauthorized use of any alcohol or illegal drugs on County premises or on County
          time, including rest periods and lunch. Marijuana is considered an illegal drug under federal law
          and, therefore constitutes an “illegal drug” for purposes of this policy.
     3.   Possess, distribute, sell, manufacture, transfer, or receive any controlled substance (drugs), or any
          other substances which impair job performance or pose a hazard to the safety and welfare of the
          employee or other employees, on County premises or on County time. Violation of this rule is
          strictly prohibited and will result in immediate termination.

B.   Each employee must report the use of medically authorized drugs, which can impair job performance to
     their immediate supervisor and provide proper authorization from a physician to work while using such
     authorized drugs. It is the employee's responsibility to determine from the physician whether the
     prescribed drugs would impair job performance. Some over-the-counter drugs may also impair job
     performance. Please read the directions carefully. The County may require a physician's written
     excuse from any employee claiming to need time off for medical reasons or because they are taking an
     over-the-counter drug which impairs performance and safety.

     Abuse of prescription or over-the-counter drugs is a violation of this agreement.

C.   Employees who violate the above policies shall be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including
     termination.

EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
Klamath County offers an Employee Assistance Program (EAP) to provide confidential assistance to
employees and their families with a personal drug and/or alcohol problem, and other human problems that
impact on the employee's health and job performance. Any employee of Klamath County wishing
confidential assistance for any such problem can call the EAP Coordinator or the EAP Assessor in the

                                                                                                  6/24/2026   37
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

County Human Resources Department at 883-4296. We encourage any individual with a drug or alcoho!
problem to seek assistance. Employees are strongly encouraged to use the EAP on a voluntary basis
before drug and/or alcohol problems jeopardize their continuous employment.

DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING
Klamath County has established the following procedure for the testing of drug and alcohol use among its
employees.

Klamath County has the right to require urine, breathalyzer and/or blood samples in any of the following
situations. Failure to give written consent, without qualification, to drug and alcohol testing, or failure to
provide samples for such testing will be considered insubordination and grounds for immediate suspension
and/or termination.

A.   All finalist applicants for employment may be required to submit to a urinalysis. If the test is positive,
     employment is denied. The applicant may re-apply in one year.
B.   Initially, a mandatory urinalysis may be required of all employees within 30 days after this policy takes
     effect. Additionally, Klamath County may require all employees to submit to a periodic unannounced
     urinalysis.
     Employees involved in any accident where a doctor care injury occurs will be subject to drug and/or
     alcohol testing. Accidents involving non-doctor care injuries, property damage or near-misses may be
     cause for testing.
     Observable changes in employee performance, appearance, behavior, speech, etc., which provide
     suspicion of the presence of drugs or alcohol, are grounds for requiring a fitness for duty evaluation
     involving urine, breathalyzer, and/or blood sample testing. Such bases for suspicion can include, but
     are not limited to:

     -Absenteeism or excessive tardiness
     -Declining performance
     -Suspect behavior, e.g., stumbling, slurred or incoherent speech, apparent confusion in orientation,
     emotional outbursts, inability to perform normal job tasks, the unsafe handling of equipment or tools, or
     the actual observation of such behavior as drinking alcohol or using some other drug.

     When there is suspicion, the employee is not to return to work until fitness for duty is established. This
     time will be treated as a suspension without pay pending the outcome of the testing. The employee
     shall be paid for any time lost from work if the tests are alcohol and drug free.
     If the test is positive, the employee will be referred to the EAP in lieu of termination on the first
     occasion. The following procedure will apply:

     1.   All “positive” tests will be subjected to a secondary, confirmatory test (on the same sample) using a
          gas chromatography/mass spectrometry test or a superior or equally reliable test if same becomes
          reasonably available.

     2.   Ifthe secondary test confirms the initial positive test result, the employee will be immediately
          suspended for violation of County policy. The employee may have the opportunity then to either
          sign a Performance Contract and seek treatment, or sever their employment relationship with
          Klamath County.

                                                                                                6/24/2026         328
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

     3.   The employee that chooses rehabilitation will be expected to meet with an accredited professional
          to assess the nature and severity of their problem, and to establish a treatment program. Failure to
          complete the program or to cooperate with the drug/alcohol counselor is considered a breach of
          the Performance Contract and will result in immediate termination.

     4.   Before returning to work, the employee will be required to submit to an alcohol and/or drug screen.
          A drug/alcohol free result will allow the employee to return to work. Returning to work will require
          the employee to submit to periodic testing, at the employer's discretion, over the next 24 months,
          as well as any other conditions required by Klamath County. Refusing to take a test will result in
          immediate termination. A positive test result will result in immediate termination for violation of
          County policy.

     5.   When an employee who is under a “Performance Contract’ tests positive for alcohol and drug use,
          the employee will be terminated. (Only one Performance Contract is permitted: a second positive
          test will result in immediate termination.) The employee may also be terminated for any other
          violation of a Performance Contract, as determined by Klamath County or the EAP counselor, apart
          from a positive test result.

     6.   Your medical benefits may cover a percentage of the costs for this treatment; however, any costs
          accrued that are not covered by insurance are the sole responsibility of the employee.

G. APPEAL PROCEDURES
   The employee or applicant, at her/his expense, will have the opportunity to have a licensed testing
   facility test the same sample submitted to the original test facility. Accepted chain of custody
   procedures must be followed and the test facility must meet all standards set by the Federal Health
   Agencies for laboratory performance using certified Medical Technologists and Technicians. An
   employee may request the independent test by notifying the Human Resources Director in writing
   within two (2) calendar days after the day the employee is informed of the test results. The test result
   will be kept confidential and will be available only to a designated employer representative. If the
   appealed test comes out drug and alcohol free, Klamath County will pay for the test.

H.   SEARCHES
     Klamath County reserves the right to inspect and/or search all County property for intoxicating liquor,
     controlled or illegal substances, or any other substances which impair job performance. Refusal to
     submit to any such inspection or refusal to cooperate in any investigation will subject the employee to
     disciplinary action up to and including immediate suspension or termination.
     When controlled substances are located on County property, local law enforcement officials will be
     contacted.

|.   CONFIDENTIALITY
     The results and records of alcohol and drug testing are to be considered confidential and are not to be
     discussed or shared with anyone who does not need to know.       Likewise, a manager must not discuss
     the suspected reason for a referral with anyone who does not need to know. Records shall not
     become part of an employee's personnel file.

J.   OTHER CONDITIONS

                                                                                               6/24/2026         39
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

     1.   Any employee tampering with or doctoring/altering a drug or alcohol screening test will be subject
          to immediate termination. An applicant engaging in the above conduct will not be eligible for
          employment or to re-apply.

     2.   All employees are expected to cooperate fully in any investigations resulting from this policy.

     3.   The County reserves the right to determine whether suspicion exists and the level of discipline to
          be applied.

K.   Laboratory testing will be completed at a licensed testing facility that meets all standards set forth by
     the Federal Health Agencies for laboratory performance using certified Medical Technologists and
     Technicians.

L.   DEFINITIONS

     For the purpose of this policy, the following definitions are provided:

     Presence is defined as the threshold level of alcohol or drugs in an employee's blood or urine as
     determined by an accredited laboratory chosen by Klamath County.

     Controlled Substances are defined as all forms of narcotics, depressants, stimulants, hallucinogens,
     and cannabis, whose sale, purchase, transfer, use or possession is prohibited by law.

     Over-the-Counter-Drugs are those which are generally available without a prescription from a medical
     doctor and are limited to those drugs which are capable of impairing the judgment of an employee to
     safely perform her/his duties.

     Medically Authorized (Prescription) Drugs are those drugs which are used in the course of medical
     treatment and have been prescribed and authorized for use by a licensed practitioner/physician or
     dentist.

CONVICTION UNDER CRIMINAL DRUG STATUTE
Employees must notify their immediate supervisor within five (5) days of any conviction for violating a
criminal drug statute.

SITUATIONS NOT COVERED BY POLICY
We recognize that situations may arise which are not specifically covered by this policy and these
guidelines. (For example, situations involving employees who have been arrested or convicted for off-the-
job illegal drug use or activity.) We will deal with them on a case-by-case basis, taking into account such
things as the nature of the situation or problem, the employee’s overall employment record and job
assignment, the potential impact on production, safety and customer relations, etc.

                                                                                                 6/24/2026       40
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

                       AGREEMENT TO CONDITIONS OF CONTINUING EMPLOYMENT

F                                                       , understand and agree that my continuing employment
with Klamath County is conditioned upon my being       fit for work, and not working under the influence of
alcohol or illegal drugs, and not using illegal drugs, in any way at any time.

| have undertaken a treatment program designed to eliminate my job-related use of and/or dependence on
drugs or alcohol.

| understand that my continued employment with Klamath County is conditional upon my complying with all
my terms and conditions of this treatment program in the future, and complying with all terms and
conditions of the County’s drug and alcohol policy.

The specific details of my treatment and recovery program are as follows:

{.     Time period of leave of absence from                          to

2.     Rehabilitation to be monitored by
                                                       Counseling Agency

     and
                County Representative

3.     Conditions for re-instatement and continued employment:

       A.   Comply with the treatment program in the future.
       B.   Comply with the County's Drug and Alcohol Policy.
       C.   Employee authorizes counselor to provide all reports and evaluations to the County.

| authorize the County to communicate with my treating physician and/or my drug and alcohol counselor or
treatment therapist, and to receive all information from her/him with respect to my status and compliance
with the treatment program. | will comply with all treatment program requirements to their successful
conclusion.

| understand that during all periods of work for Klamath County, during and after my treatment, | must meet
all established standards of conduct and job performance, and that | will be subject to the County's normal
disciplinary procedures if | fail to meet any of these standards. | promise to stay free of the effects of
alcohol or illegal drug use at all times in the future while working for Klamath County.

| promise to comply with the County’s drug and alcohol policy during all future work for Klamath County. |
agree to submit to County directed periodic random chemical screen testing over the next 24 months from
the date of this agreement.

                                                                                                  6/24/2026    A]
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

IN CONSIDERATION OF KLAMATH COUNTY PROVIDING ME WITH TIME OFF FOR TREATMENT AND
OTHER ASSISTANCE, AND THEREFORE HOLDING MY JOB FOR ME, | AGREE TO KEEP EACH OF
THE PROMISES HEREIN. | UNDERSTAND AND AGREE THAT MY FAILURE TO OBSERVE THE
TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT WILL SUBJECT ME TO IMMEDIATE TERMINATION FROM THE
EMPLOY OF KLAMATH COUNTY WITHOUT RIGHT TO MAKE ANY LEGAL CLAIMS CONTESTING
SUCH TERMINATION.

DATE:
                                                               EMPLOYEE

DATE:
                                                               WITNESS

                                                                          6/24/2026   42
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

                                                               6/24/2026   A3
Klamath County and Local 737 Collective Bargaining Agreement

                                             SIGNATURE PAGE

FOR THE UNION:                                                 FOR THE COUNTY:

Lk                  LX
Zack Culver, Business Manager
                                                               iis G~
                                                               Susan Baumgart
Laborers’ Union, Local 737                                     Director of Human Resources
zculver@local737.org

Jeff Gritz,                     :
                                                                Asfo
                                                               Marcus Henderson
Oreg          d Southern Idaho District Council                Klamath County Counsel
of Laborers.
jgritz@local737.org

                                                               BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

    ta, Las
                                                               Kelley Minty, Chair, Commissioner
Local 737 Union Steward                                        Board of County Commissioners

                                                                 Out of office today
                                                               Derrick DeGroot, Commissioner
Local 737 Union Steward                                        Board of Co                   3

                                                               Andrew Nichols;      Commissioner
                                                               Board of          County Commissioners

UNION RATIFICATION DATE:                                       BOARD RATIFICATION DATE:

                                                                        06/25/2026

                                                                                                        6/24/2026   3 44
                                                                                                                      4A
737 Collective Bargaining Agreement
Final Audit Report                                                                                2026-06-29

      Created:                2026-06-25

      By:                     Haley Huffman (hhuffman@klamathcounty.org)

      Status:                 Signed

      Transaction ID:         CBJCHBCAABAA5zPe3Tinz8xZ-6gxhy850MxyAY2nStEm

"737 Collective Bargaining Agreement" History
*5.     Document created by Haley Huffman (hhuffman@klamathcounty.org)
        2026-06-25 - 9:28:07 PM GMT

“.      Document emailed to mhenderson@klamathcountyor.gov for signature
        2026-06-25 - 9:29:26 PM GMT

*5.     Email viewed by mhenderson@klamathcountyor.gov
        2026-06-29 - 9:16:15 PM GMT

©»      Signer mhenderson@klamathcountyor.gov entered name at signing as Marcus M. Henderson
        2026-06-29 - 9:16:34 PM GMT

©       Document e-signed by Marcus M. Henderson (mhenderson@klamathcountyor.gov)
        Signature Date: 2026-06-29 - 9:16:36 PM GMT - Time Source: server - Signature Appearance Selected: IMAGE

©       Agreement completed.
        2026-06-29 - 9:16:36 PM GMT

        Adobe Acrobat Sign