Article 57.2
                               Solar Siting Standards

57.210 - Definition:

Commercial Solar Systems: An assembly of equipment that converts sunlight into
electricity and then stores or transmits that electricity. This includes photovoltaic
modules, mounting and solar tracking equipment and foundations, electric cabling,
inverters, collection systems, and other similar components. A commercial solar system
may also include battery storage, on-site substations, access roads, offices, operation
or maintenance buildings, staging areas, and all other necessary appurtenances. A
“commercial solar system’ does not include net-metering systems as defined in ORS
757.300, agricultural-related facilities, rooftop mounted solar, and other similar systems.
57.220 —Purpose

A. This chapter describes the requirements for establishing commercial solar systems
   on lands zoned under the Klamath County Land Development Ordinance, including
   Exclusive Farm Use, Forestry, Forestry/Range and Non-Resource Zones. The
   requirements in this chapter supplement the provisions in the underlying base
   zones.

B.   The goais of this chapter are to:
        1.   Minimize conflicts with agricultural lands in Klamath County and residential,
             commercial and industrial areas within the Urban Growth Boundary;
        2.   Protect resources identified in the Klamath County Comprehensive Plan;
             Preserve the water rights within Klamath County;
        we

        4.   Avoid impacts on wildlife within Klamath County by requiring approved
             mitigation plan within areas inventoried as fish and wildlife areas and habitats
             within the Klamath County Comprehensive Plan,
             Collaborate and coordinate with agencies and other stakeholders;
      Oa

             Encourage renewable energy production; and
        7.   Protect the public health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of Klamath
             County.

57.225 - Review Process

A.      The county shail process all applications for a commercial solar system subject
        to the applicable provisions in Chapters 20 and 30.
B.      Notwithstanding Section 57.225(A), for a commercial solar system application
        that triggers review under Section 57.245(B), the county must provide notice
        upon receipt of an application as follows:

                                                                         Page 1 of 8 (9/6/2022)
       1.     The notice must include, at a minimum:
              (a) A description of the proposed commercial solar system;
              (b) A description of the lots or parcels subject to the permit application;
              (c) The dates, times and locations where public comments or public
              testimony on the permit application can be submitted; and

              (d) The contact information for the governing body of the county and the
              applicant.

       2.     The notice must be delivered to:
              (a) The Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife:
              (b) The Oregon Department of Energy;
              (c) The State Historic Preservation Office;
              (d) The Oregon Department of Aviation;
              (e) The United States Department of Defense; and
              (f) Federally recognized Indian tribes that may be affected by the
              application.

C.     When the county receives an application for a commercial solar system that
       triggers review under Section 57.245(B), the county and the applicant may agree
       to jointly enter into a cost reimbursement agreement with one of the reviewing
       state agencies or tribes listed below to assist in the review of the application. A
       state agency or tribe must provide the county and applicant with a reasonable
       cost estimate for the service and the county shall have the authority to administer
       the cost reimbursement agreement.
              1.        Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife;
              2.        Oregon Historic Preservation Office or any affected federally
                        recognized Indian Tribe; and

              3.        Oregon Department of Energy.
57.230 - Application Requirements:

     A. Application Requirements. An application for a commercial solar system shall
        include the following unless waived by the director in writing:
                   1.   Adescription of the proposed commercial solar system, a tentative
                        construction schedule, the legal description of the property on
                        which the system will be located, and identification of the general
                        area for all components of the commercial solar system including a
                        map showing the location of components and including:

                                                                         Page 2 of 8 (9/6/2022)
        a.    Evidence of an active utility transmission request or process
              and description of same; and
        b.    A proposed route and permitting for transmission lines
              connecting the commercial solar system to the grid.

2.   Identification of potential conflicts, if any, with:
        a.    Accepted farming practices as defined in ORS 215.203(2)(c)
              on adjacent lands.
        b.    Accepted forest practices on adjacent lands.
        c.    Other resource operations and practices on adjacent lands
              including solar systems.

3.   A draft water rights management plan if the commercial solar
     system is proposed for land subject to a water right. The plan shall
     include:
         a. Identification of the water right for the subject property
              including the certificate or permit number, the source of the
              water right, the point of diversion or the point of
              appropriation, the place of use, and the priority date.
         b.   A description of applicant's or landowner’s proposal for
              transferring or maintaining the water right during operation of
              the commercial solar system
        c.    Evidence of consultation of the water rights management
              plan by the irrigation district if the subject property is located
              within an irrigation district. Evidence of consultation shall be
              either meeting minutes containing the date, list of attendees,
              and topics discussed including outcomes and decisions or a
              written position statement from the irrigation district.
        d.    Evidence of consultation with the Watermaster if the subject
              property is located outside of an irrigation district.   Evidence
              of consultation shall be either meeting minutes containing
              the date, list of attendees, and topics discussed including
              outcomes and decisions or a written position statement from
              the Watermaster.

4.   A draft wildlife impact and mitigation plan that includes information
     pertaining to the commercial solar system’s potential impacts and
     measures to avoid impacts on inventoried fish and wildlife areas
     and habitats within the County’s Comprehensive Plan. The draft
     wildlife impact and mitigation plan shall include evidence of
     consultation with Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife.
     Evidence of consultation shall be either meeting minutes containing
     the date, list of attendees, and topics discussed including outcomes
                                                            Page 3 of 8 (9/6/2022)
  and decisions or a written position statement from the Oregon
  Department of Fish and Wildlife.

. Adraft fire protection and emergency response plan for
  construction and operations. The plan shall be developed and
  implemented in consultation with the applicable fire district or
  department and/or land management agency to minimize the risk of
  fire and respond appropriately to any fire or emergency that occurs
  on site. In developing the plan, the applicant shall take into account
  terrain, dry conditions, limited access, and water access.

. Adraft noxious weed control plan developed in consultation with
  Klamath County.

. Adraft vegetation management plan.

. Fora proposed commercial solar system on land adjacent to Public
  right of way or residentially zoned land, a draft screening plan to
  minimize the visibility of the commercial solar system from public
  view.   The draft screening plan may propose screening using
  landscaping, plants, fencing, or other suitable materials approved
  by the Klamath County.

. Adraft dismantling and decommissioning plan for all components of
  the commercial solar system that describes the actions to restore
 the site to a useful, nonhazardous condition.    The plan shall also
 include:
                    a. A detailed cost estimate for dismantling and
                       decommissioning including the form of financial
                       assurance. The cost estimate for dismantling
                       and decommissioning shall be updated every
                       five years with a current detailed cost estimate
                       that may consider salvage value including a
                       comparison of that estimate with present funds
                       of the bond or other financial mechanism for
                       dismantling, and a plan for assuring the
                       availability of adequate funds for completion of
                       dismantling or decommissioning.

                    b. A description of restoration of the site that
                       ensures:
                           1. Dismantling and removal of all solar
                              equipment and accessory equipment.
                                                    Page 4 of 8 (9/6/2022)
                                       All concrete pads and foundations shall
                                       be removed to a depth of at least 3 feet
                                       below the surface. If there is no
                                       agricultural or other resource use of the
                                       land, this requirement does not apply.
                                     . Underground collection and
                                       communication cables and conduit need
                                       not be removed if the cables and
                                       conduit are at a depth of a least 3 feet
                                       below the surface grade and not
                                       deemed to a be a hazard or could
                                       interfere with agriculture use or other
                                       resource use of the land. If there is no
                                       agricultural or other resource use of the
                                       land, this requirement does not apply.
                                     . Access and services roads shall be
                                       decommissioned by removing all the
                                       gravel, tilling the roads to break up the
                                       compacted soil, and the surface grade
                                       restored unless a letter from the
                                       landowner is submitted to Klamath
                                       County indicating responsibility for and
                                       maintaining the improvements for farm
                                       use or other permitted uses in the
                                       applicable zone.
                                     . Revegetation of the site shall include
                                       planting of native plant seed mix, or
                                       planting of an agricultural crop, as
                                       determined by the underlying
                                       landowner, The plan shall state who is
                                       responsible for the revegetation.
                                     . Roads, fences, and other improvements
                                       may be left in place if a letter from the
                                       landowner is submitted to Klamath
                                       County indicating responsibility for and
                                       maintaining the improvements for farm
                                       use or other permitted uses under the
                                       applicable zone.

57.240 — General Review Standards.

                                                              Page 5 of 8 (9/6/2022)
The following genera! review standards apply to the siting of a commercial solar
system:

1.   Setbacks:
         i. No portion of the commercial solar system shall be located within 200
            feet of a property zoned Residential or Rural Residential. This setback
            does not apply to an aboveground or belowground collector line or
            overhead or belowground transmission line necessary to interconnect
            the commercial solar system to the grid.

          ii.   No portion of the commercial solar system shall be located within 200
                feet of an existing dwelling on an adjacent property. This setback does
                not apply to an aboveground or below ground collector line or
                overhead or below ground transmission line necessary to interconnect
                the commercial solar system to the grid.

2.   Ground Leveling: The applicant shall design the commercial solar system so
     ground leveling is limited to those areas needed for effective solar collection
     and preserving the natural ground contouring to the extent possible.

3. Water Resource: The applicant shall construct and operate the commercial
     solar system consistent with a county-approved water rights management
     plan.

4.   Wildlife Resource: The applicant shall design the commercial solar system to
     reduce the likelihood of significant adverse effects on wildlife habitat and
     mitigate for adverse effects under a county-approved wildlife impact and
     mitigation plan.

5.   Public Safety: The applicant shall design the commercial solar system to
     exclude members of the public from hazardous areas within the site. The
     applicant shall implement a county-approved fire protection and emergency
     response pian.

6. Airport Proximity: A commercial solar system in proximity to an airport shall
   be designed consistent with applicable state and federal guidance for
   evaluating solar technologies at airports.

7.   Road Use Agreement: Where applicable, the Klamath County Road
     Department shall require the applicant to enter into a road agreement with
     Klamath County to ensure that construction traffic is mitigated and damage to

                                                                    Page 6 of 8 (9/6/2022)
            county roads that is caused by the construction of the commercial solar
            system is repaired at applicant's expense

      8.    Dismantling and Decommissioning. The applicant shall comply with a county-
            approved dismantling and decommissioning plan and provide a financial
            security acceptable to the County to cover the cost of dismantling and
            uncompleted construction or decommissioning of the facility, and site
            rehabilitation.   The amount of the security shall be no less 120% of the
            accepted engineer's estimate.

57.245 - Specific Review Standards

In addition to the general review standards in Section 89.040, the following specific
standards shall apply to a commercial solar system if applicable:
A. The applicant shall demonstrate that the commercial solar system can be design,
   operated and constructed consistent with the applicable provisions of OAR 660-033-
   00130(38).
   1. The county authorizes dual-use Commercial Solar Systems pursuant to OAR
   660-033-0120(38)(g)(B). Dual-use Commercial Solar Systems subject to OAR 660-
   033-0130(38)(g) may not exceed 20 acres and shall have a dual-use development
   plan providing sufficient assurances that the approved dual-use continues for the life
   of the Commercial Solar System.

   The applicant shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the county that the commercial
   solar system meets the standards set forth in ORS 215.446(3).

   57.250 - Annual Report

   Annual Report shall be provided to Klamath County Planning Commission and
   include the following information:
           A.      Summary of operational status, statement of ownership, and representative
                   photos of the system.
                B. Success and failure of vegetation control practices (including noxious
                   weeds).
            C. Success and failure of the screening plan, if applicable.
            D. Status of the decommissioning bond, and every five years an update on
               the decommissioning estimate.
            E. Any required wildlife monitoring reporting.

                                                                         Page 7 of 8 (9/6/2022)
57.260 - Amendments:

The Commercial Solar System Approval shall be specific but slight modification from
            the original approval may be made:
                       A.   Increase the footprint of the solar system by 10% or less;
                               however, no increase in the amount of solar arrays.

                                                                  Page 8 of 8 (9/6/2022)