ORD. 45.92 Adopt January 30, 2012
 20 - 1
CHAPTER 20
REVIEW PROCEDURES
ARTICLE 20
BASIC PROVISIONS
20.010 - PURPOSE OF REVIEW PROCEDURES
The purpose of this chapter is to establish uniform procedures for reviewing
permit applications and for making decisions on matters pertaining to the use and
development of lands within Klamath County.  It is the intent of this chapter to
provide Review Procedures ensuring that the amount of private and public
resources devoted to reaching a particular decision is commensurate with its
complexity and potential im pact.  These procedures are designed to encourage
public familiarity with and understanding of how land use decisions are reached,
and increase the overall speed by which land use decisions are made.
20.020 - TYPES OF REVIEW PROCEDURES
All reviewing bodies  shall be governed by the Comprehensive Plan policies, i n
order to achieve the purposes set forth above, the following procedures are
established:
A.  Pre-application Conference Procedure
B  Administrative Review Procedure
C.  Hearings Officer Review Procedure
D.  Planning Commission Review Procedure
E.  Board of County Commissioners Review Procedure
20.030 STATEMENT SUPPORTING DECISION (ORS 215.416(9)-(10))
Written notice of the approval or denial will be given to all parties to the
proceeding.  Approval or denial of any quasi-judicial permit application under this
code will be based on and accompanied by a brief statement that:
A.  Explains the criteria and standards considered relevant to the decision;
B.  States the facts relied on in rendering the decision; and
ORD. 45.92 Adopt January 30, 2012
 20 - 2
C.  Explains the justification for the decision based on the criteria, standards
and facts set forth.
20.040 - CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
A.  General Authorization to Impose Conditions of Approval
In approving any type of development application, the Review Body is
authorized to impose such conditions as may be necessary to assure
compliance with the applicable provisions of this code, the Comprehensive
Plan, the Urban Area Transportation System Plan, the state Transportation
Planning Rule, or other requirements of law.  Any conditions attached to
approvals will be directly related to the impacts of the proposed use or
development and will be roughly proportional in both extent and amount to the
anticipated impacts of the proposed use or development.
1. In the case of transportation impacts, conditions needed to meet
operations and safety standards and provide the necessary right -of-
way and improvements to develop the future planned transportation
system may be imposed. Conditions of approval that may apply
include but are not limited to:
a. Crossover and/or reciprocal easement agreements for all
adjoining parcels to facilitate future access between parcels.
b. Access for new developments that have proposed access points
that do not meet the designated access s pacing policy and/or
have the ability to align with opposing access driveways.
c. Right-of-way dedications for future planned roadway
improvements.
d. Half-street improvements along site frontages that do not have
full-buildout improvements in place at the time of development.
B. Compliance with Conditions Required
An applicant who has received development approval will comply with all
conditions of approval in a timely manner.  The County may modify, alter,
suspend, or revoke an approved application for noncompliance with
conditions of approval.
C. Enforcement and Penalties for Noncompliance with Conditions
If the County modifies, alters, suspends, or revokes an approved application
for noncompliance with conditions of approval, it may proceed under the
penalty provisions of Article 14 and/or schedule a public hearing before the
Board of Commissioners.  At the conclusion of any such hearing, and based
on findings of fact and conclusions of law, the Review Body shall take such
action on the application as it deems  appropriate under the provisions of this
ORD. 45.92 Adopt January 30, 2012
 20 - 3
code.  Notice of any hearing scheduled under this Section will be served on
the owner of record of the subject property and, if different from the owner,
the applicant or operator under the application in the same manner as
summons is served under Oregon Rules of Civil Procedure.  Notice to all
others will be accomplished pursuant to KCLDC.
D.  Modification of Conditions Previously Approved
At an applicant's request, the County may modify or amend one or more
conditions of approval for an application previously approved and final.
Decisions to modify or amend final conditions of approval that do not qualify
as ministerial decisions under KCLDC Section 22.040 will be made by the
Review Body with initial jurisdiction over the original application using the
same type of review procedure as the original review.

ORD. 45.92 Adopt January 30, 2012

 21 - 1
ARTICLE 21
PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE PROCEDURE
21.010 - PURPOSE
The purpose of the pre-application conference is to acquaint potential applicants with
the procedures and requirements for filing, processing, and reviewing a development
permit governed by t his code prior to submission of an application.   Pre-application
conferences shall take place prior to filing an application and may be subject to a fee
as established by the Board of Commissioners.
21.020 - SCHEDULING
At the time an inquiry into a development permit is directed to the Planning
Department, a meeting may be scheduled at the discretion of the Planning Director
or his/her designee for a time mutually acceptable to the applicant and planning
staff.  Failure to conduct a pre-application conference shall not prohibit  the applicant
from submitting an application.
21.030 - CONTENT
During the pre-application conference, the following issues may be discussed, as
appropriate.
A. Requirements for filing an application including application forms, fees,  and
the submission of factual documentation about the proposal;
B. Procedural requirements for review and/or a public hearing on the proposal;
C. Substantive review criteria contained in the Comprehensive Plan and Land
Development Code; and
D. Opportunities and constraints relating to the proposal resulting from  policies
and regulations contained in the Comprehensive Plan and Land Development
Code.
21.040 - NOTICE, HEARING AND APPEAL
Because a pre-application conference is not a land use decision, no notice,  hearing
or appeals shall be provided.   The discussions of a pre-application conference shall
not be binding on any party. For application sites located adjacent to a state roadway
or where proposals are expected to have an impact on a state transpor tation facility,
ODOT shall be invited to participate in the conference.
ORD. 45.100 Adopt November 29, 2022

 22 - 1
ARTICLE 22
ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW PROCEDURE
22.010 - PURPOSE
The purpose of the Administrative Review Procedure is to provide for ministerial
review of certain change of land use and development proposals, and to provide for
the expeditious review of actions involving limited discretionary judgment for  which
notice may be required by Oregon law.  The changes of land use or  development
permits reviewed under this procedure generally have minimal impact on adjacent
lands or persons and may be subject to a fee as established by the Board of
Commissioners. (ORS 215.042; ORS 215.416(1))
22.020 - RULES OF PROCEDURE
A.  The Planning Department shall be governed by Chapter 30 of this Code for  the
conduct of administrative reviews. Chapter 30 shall be available upon request to
all individuals.
B.  Submitted applications will be reviewed by the Planning Department as  specified
in this Article.  Applicants whose applications are found to be incomplete will be
notified in writing of identified deficiencies and processed i n accordance with
ORS 215.427
C  The Planning Department relies on the integrity of the applicant and the veracity
of the application.  If the applicant, the applicant ’s representative, or  apparent
representative, makes a misstatement of fact on the applic ation regarding factual
material that is relied upon by the Planning Director, his/her  designee or a
Review Body in making a decision to approve the application,  the Planning
Director may, upon notice to the applicant and subject to hearing rights, declare
the application denied.
D.  A consolidated permit review procedure shall be available for use at the option of
the applicant. Under the consolidated procedure an applicant may  apply at one
time for all permits or zone changes needed for a development  project.  The
consolidated procedure shall be subject to the time limitations  set out in ORS
215.427, except when such applications are filed concurrently  and considered
jointly with a comprehensive plan amendment. (ORS 215.416(2))
22.030 - TYPE I REVIEW
A.  Unless referred to hearing by the Planning Director in accordance with this
Section, Type I Review, which is limited to review for compliance with clear  and
objective standards of this code, shall be conducted without notice or a public
hearing.
B.  Review and Decision
1.  The Planning Director or his/her designee shall review the Type I  application
within 15 days of receipt of a complete application and determine its
ORD. 45.100 Adopt November 29, 2022

 22 - 2
compliance with applicable standards and other relevant  provisions of this
code.
2.  An authorized signature showing compliance or non-compliance shall
constitute the final decision.
3.  The Planning Director, at his/her discretion, may refer review of the
application to a Type II Review procedure in accordance with ORS  215.416
and ORS 215.427,  or to an appropriate Review Body for a full  quasi-judicial
hearing in accordance with ORS 197.763.
4.  A tentative decision reached under a referred Type II Review procedure may
be appealed to the Board of County Commissioners within 12 days  of mailed
notice of the tentative decision in accordance with procedures  set forth in
Article 33.
22.040 - TYPE II REVIEW (ORS 215.416 and ORS 215.427)
A.  Public Hearing and Notice.
1.  Unless referred to public hearing by the Planning Director in accordance with
this Section, Type II Review shall be conducted without a public hearing.
2.  Notice shall be provided prior to the review in accordance with Article 32 and
ORS 215.416.
B. Review and Decision.
1.  The Planning Director or his/her designee shall review the application  within
30 days of receipt of a land use permit application and determine whether the
application is complete as submitted.  Noncompliance with applicable
provisions of this Code shall be identified in writing and incorporated into the
official application file (ORS 215.427(2)).
2.  In accordance with Section 31. 120, the Planning Director shall reduce a
tentative decision to writing within 90 days of the application being deemed
complete.
3.  The Planning Director, at his/her discretion, or if requested by a person
receiving a request for comment notice or otherwise demonstrably affected by
the proposed action, may refer review of the application to an appropriate
Review Body for a quasi-judicial hearing.
C. Time Limit on TYPE II Review Approval for any type of Farm or Forest Dwelling
1. A Type II R eview shall be void after 4 years if a Land Use Capability
Statement has not been issued or has expired.
2. Requests for an extension of time for an approved and final TYPE II review
shall be reviewed in accordance with the Type I Administrative Review
Procedure.
3.  Requests for an extension of time based on substantial development of an
approved and final Type II Review shall be reviewed against the following
criteria:
ORD. 45.100 Adopt November 29, 2022

 22 - 3
a. The nature of the project and original conditions;
b. The acts of the property owner must rise beyond mere contemplated use.
c. Development is unable to occur due to circumstances beyond the control
of the owner.
d. A Type II Review will be limited to two (2) one-year time extensions.
D. Appeal.
A decision reached under the Type II Review procedure may be appealed to the
Board of County Commissioners within 12 days of the mailing of  notification of
the tentative decision as set forth in Article 33.
22.050 - REGISTRY
The Planning Director shall maintain a data base of land use decisions made within
the previous 12 months without providing advance notice of the review and an
opportunity for a hearing. (ORS 215.416(12)).

 24 - 1
ARTICLE 24
HEARINGS OFFICER REVIEW PROCEDURE
24.010 - PURPOSE
The purpose of the Hearings Officer Review Procedure is to provide for the  conduct
of evidentiary, quasi -judicial hearings involving discretionary judgment in  the
application of standards and re view criteria to specific factual situations.  The
Hearings Officer Review Procedure allows for an impartial tribunal, the opportunity to
present evidence, assurance against ex parte contacts, and the  means to create a
record of hearings providing findings of fact and conclusions of law.
24.020 - APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES
A.  The Board of County Commissioners may appoint the Hearings Officer to  serve
at the pleasure of the Board (ORS 215.406).  The Hearings Officer may appoint a
Deputy as is necessary, subject  to confirmation by the Board of  County
Commissioners.
B.  The Hearings Officer and the Deputy Hearings Officer shall be appointed  solely
with regard to their qualifications for the duties of their position and  shall have
such training and experience as will qualify them to conduct hearings on land use
matters and other duties conferred upon them.
C.  The Hearings Officer may act on behalf of the Board of County Commissioners in
hearing and deciding land use matters governed by this  code.  The Deputy
Hearings Officer shall assist the Hearings Officer in the performance of appointed
duties, and shall have all the duties and powers of  the Hearings Officer in the
event of the absence or the inability of the Hearings Officer to act.
D.  The Hearings Officer shal l consider land use issues pursuant to Article 14
(Enforcement), and Article 44 (Conditional Use Permit) of the Klamath County
Land Development Code.  Issues referred by the Planning Director in
accordance with Section 22.040 may also be heard by the Hearings Officer.
E.  In the absence of a hearings officer a planning commission or the governing
body may serve as hearings officer with all the powers and duties of a  hearings
officer. (ORS 215.406(2))
24.030 - RULES OF PROCEDURE
A.  The Hearings Officer shall follow Chapter 30 and 31 of this Code for the  conduct
of hearings.
B.  The Hearings Officer relies on the integrity of the applicant and the veracity of the
application.
C.  If the applicant, the applicants representative, or apparent representative,  makes
a misstatement of fact on an application regarding factual material that  is relied
upon in making a decision, the decision maker may, upon notice to  the applicant
and subject to hearing rights, declare the application void.

 24 - 2
D. In the event of emergencies, public disorder in any hearing or meeting, or public
speakers who refuse to recognize the chair or yield the floor at the Hearings
Officer's request, the Hearings Officer may, at his/her discretion, exercise any of
the following measures:
1. Immediately declare a recess.
2. Adjourn or continue the hearing to a place and time certain.
3. Request appropriate assistance in securing removal of uncooperative
persons from the hearing or public meeting.
24.040 - PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE
A. The Planning Department shall schedule public hearings and provide notice  of
Hearings Officer Review as provided by A rticles 31 and 32. (ORS 197.763 &
ORS 215.416)
B. At a scheduled hearing, the Hearings Officer may, upon request by the  applicant,
continue or reschedule a public hearing to a date and time certain.  The applicant
or a representative for the applicant must be present at the  hearing.  If no person
is present to represent the applicant, the application  may be denied at the
discretion o f the Hearings Officer.  A new application  would then have to be
made.
24.050 - REVIEW AND DECISION (ORS 197.763)
A. Public hearings conducted by the Hearings Officer shall be called to order at  the
date and time specified in the public notice and shall pr oceed in accordance with
Section 31 100.
B. The Hearings Officer may impose a 15 minute time limit upon witnesses.
C. The Hearings Officer will officially open the hearing by stating the name of the
applicant, the case number, then ask for the staff report  from the Planning
Department staff.
D. The Hearings Officer will ask the applicant and supporting proponents to  come
forward, be sworn in, and then testify.
E. The Hearings Officer will then call for opponents to come forward, be sworn  in
and then testify.
F. The Hearings Officer will then provide an opportunity for proponent rebutta l.
Generally, surrebuttal to the proponent or opponent's rebuttal is allowed, at  the
discretion of the Hearings Officer, provided a final rebuttal opportunity is provided
the proponent in accordance with ORS 197 763.
G. After all testimony is taken, the Hearings Officer shall close or continue the
hearing.
H. The Hearings Officer may, upon good cause, continue the hearing to a date  and
time certain without further notice in accordance with ORS 197.763(6).

 24 - 3
I. If the Hearings Officer is not present, the Planning Director or his/her  designee
shall open the hearing on the agenda items and continue the  hearing to a date
and time certain, to be posted on location at the time of the  hearing by Planning
Department staff.
J. At the conclusion of the final evidentiary hearing, the Hearings Officer may  make
a decision to approve, conditionally approve, or deny the request based  on
review standards and criteria set forth in this code, or shall continue the  matter to
a date and time certain for a decision.
K. A decision of the Hearings Officer shall incorporate findings of fact and
conclusions of law based on substantial evidence in the whole record.  The
application shall not be approved if the proposed use of land is fo und to be in
conflict with the comprehensive plan and other applicable land use regulation  or
ordinance provisions.  The approval may include such conditions as are
authorized by statute or county legislation. (ORS 215.416(4))
L. A decision of the Hearings Officer shall not be final, subject to 24.050 below, until
it is reduced to writing in the form of a final order in accordance with  Section
31.120.  The Hearings Officer will render a final order within 15 days  of the
hearing.
M. An application before the  Hearings Officer may be reopened to consider new
information which was unavailable to the applicant at the time of the original
hearing.  Any request to reopen the hearing must be made in writing and
received by the Planning Department within 5 days of th e date the order was
mailed In the request to re-open the hearing the applicant must state the grounds
for re-opening.  In addition, the applicant must also provide the nature of the new
information, how it affects the application, and why this  information was
unavailable at the time of the original hearing.
24.060 - APPEAL
An order of the Hearings Officer may be appealed to the Board of County
Commissioners within 7 days of its mailing as set forth in Article 33. (ORS 215.422)

 26 - 1
ARTICLE 26
PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW PROCEDURE
26.010 - PURPOSE
The purpose of the Planning Commission Review Procedure is to provide for the
conduct of public hearings necessary to reach quasi -judicial decisions involving
discretionary judgment in the ap plication of standards and review criteria to  factual
situations, or to make legislative recommendations involving the  balancing of
divergent positions.  The change of land use associated with development proposals
reviewed under this procedure may have si gnificant impacts on adjacent lands or
persons, or involve policy decisions affecting a  broad range of lands or persons.
(ORS 215.020; ORS 215.110)
26.020 - RULES OF PROCEDURE
A.  Organization of the Planning Commission.
1.  The Planning Commission shall, at its regular meeting in July each year, elect
and install one of its members to serve as Chairman and  another to serve as
Vice Chairman, provided, however, a member shall not be eligible for election
as Chairman for two consecutive  terms, except as appro ved by unanimous
consent of the Planning Commission members voting on the question.
2.  Nominations for off icers shall be by oral motion duly made and  seconded,
placing a name for Planning Commission consideration.  At the close of
nominations, the Plannin g Commission shall vote orally  upon the names,
which were nominated for the relevant office.
3.  When a matter is called for a vote, the Presiding Officer shall, before a vote is
taken, state the question before the Planning Commission in  general terms
and shall announce the decision of the Planning Commission after such vote.
B.  Meetings.
1.  The Planning Commission shall meet regularly on the fourth Tuesday  of each
month beginning at 6:00 p.m. Planning Commission meetings will conclude at
10:00 P.M, unless the Commission by unanimous vote  agrees to extend the
time.  Unconcluded agenda items will be continued by vote to a date and time
certain prior to adjournment of the Planning Commission.
2.  The Planning Commission may cancel or reschedule any of its r egular
meetings and provide for special meetings by action at its regular meeting.
3.  Any matters not covered herein shall be in accordance with Klamath  County
standards as determined by legal counsel.
C.  Conduct of Hearing before the Planning Commission.
1. Insofar as possible, the Planning Commission members should remain  free
from personal interest or pre-hearing contacts on matters heard by them.

 26 - 2
Planning Commission members shall reveal any substantial  interest or pre -
hearing contact made to them with regard to the  proceeding at the
commencement of such proceeding .  If such interest  or contact impairs the
ability to vote on the matter, he/she shall  so state and shall abstain there
from.  Any Planning Commissioner abstaining from a hearing will also remove
him/her self from the table/dais.
2.  After opening the public hearing in accordance with Article 31, the  Chairman
will request a Planning Staff r eport on the matter before the  commission. 15
minutes will be allocated for the report from staff and  additional time may be
allowed for questions and answers posed by  the commission.  Following the
staff report, the chairman will call for testimony in the following order:
a)  The applicant, who will be allowed 15 minutes to present testimony;
b)  Others in favor of the application, who will be allowed five minutes
each;
c)  Those opposed to the application, who will be allowed five minutes
each,
d)  Those neutral to the application, agencies and special districts, who
will be allowed five minutes each; and
e)  Rebuttal by the applicant or the applicant's representative, who will  be
allowed 10 minutes to orally rebut testimony provided at the hearing.
D.  Agenda
1.  The order of business at all meetings shall be determined by the  agenda,
which shall be delivered in advance of the meeting to the  Planning
Commission members in accordance with ORS 197.763.
2.  Any item may be taken out of order by a majority vot e of the Planning
Commission.
3.  Actions of the Planning Commission are limited to the prepared  agenda.
Non-action informational items may be included on the night of the meeting at
the oral request of the Planning Director or a  Planning Commissioner in
attendance.
E.  Attendance, Quorum, and Voting.
1.  Attendance of at least five (5) of the (9) Planning Commission  members shall
be necessary for a quorum. (ORS 215.030)
2.  Voting on any action shall be by majority vote of the total Planning
Commission Members present and with a minimum of 3 votes  necessary to
carry any decision.

 26 - 3
3.  Voting shall be expressed by the raising of the right hand when called  for by
the Presiding Officer. Planning Commission members not voting negatively or
specifically abstaining shall be counted as voting  affirmatively.  All votes shall
be recorded by the Secretary.
4.  If a tie vote results that item shall be continued for decision to the next regular
meeting of the Planning Commission or to a special meeting  determined by
the Planning Commission to which notice of such item can be duly given.
26.030 - PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE
A.  The Planning Director shall schedule public hearings and provide notice of
Planning Commission Review in accordance with state law, as provided by
Article 31 and Article 32.
B.  At the scheduled hearing, the Planning Commissi on may, upon request by  the
applicant, continue or reschedule a public hearing to a date and time  certain.
The applicant or a representative for the applicant must be present at  the
hearing.  If no person is present to represent the applicant, the applica tion may
be denied at the discretion of the Planning Commission.
26.040 - REVIEW AND DECISION
Public hearings conducted by the Planning Commission shall be called to order  by
the Chairperson at the date and time specified in the public notice. The order  of
proceedings shall conform to Section 31.100.
A.  The Planning Commission may continue an evidentiary hearing to a date and
time certain on a matter before it, if in its judgment, additional time is
necessary to review the proposal or to receive additional  information
regarding the proposal.  Before continuing or rescheduling an application the
Planning Commission will determine a decision will be made within the
required time period as stipulated by Article 30, Section 30.020 of the
Klamath County Land Dev elopment Code and ORS 215.427.  In the
alternative, the applicant may voluntarily waive time period requirements to
allow for a continued hearing. (ORS 215.427(4))
B.  If a quorum of the Planning Commission is not present, the hearing is
automatically continued to a date and time certain, to be posted on location at
the time of the hearing by the Planning Department staff.
C.  Quasi-judicial hearings
1.  At the conclusion of the final evidentiary hearing, the Planning
Commission may make its decision to app rove, conditionally approve, or
deny the request based on review standards and criteria set forth in this
code, or shall continue the matter to a date and time certain for a decision.

 26 - 4
2.  A decision of the Planning Commission shall incorporate findings of fact
and conclusions of law based on substantial evidence in the whole record.
3.  A decision of the Planning Commission shall not be final until it is reduced
to writing in the form of a final order in accordance with Section 31.120.
D.  Subdivision and Planned Unit Development Review.
1.  At the conclusion of the final evidentiary hearing, the Planning
Commission shall make its decision based on review standards and
criteria set forth in the code.
2.  A decision of the Planning Commission shall incorporate findings of fact
and conclusions of law based on substantial evidence of the whole record.
3.  A decision of the Planning Commission shall not be final until it is reduced
to writing in the form of a final order in accordance with Section 31.120.
E.  Hearings for legislative changes to the Comprehensive Plan, Comprehensive
Plan Maps, Land Development Code or Zoning Map.
1.  At the close of the public hearing, the Planning Commission s hall make a
recommendation to the Board of County Commissioners on the action
before it. (ORS 215.110)
26.050 - APPEAL
An order of the Planning Commission may be appealed to the Board of County
Commissioners within 7 days of its mailing as set forth in Article 33. (ORS 215.422)

 28 - 1
ARTICLE 28
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS REVIEW PROCEDURE
28.010 - PURPOSE
The purpose of the Board of County Commissioners Review Procedure is to
provide for the conduct of hearings to reach quasi -judicial decisions involving
discretionary judgment in the  application of standards and review criteria to
factual situations, to adjudicate decisions of other review bodies, or to make
legislative decisions involving the balancing of divergent positions.  Changes of
land use resulting from proposals reviewed und er this procedure may have
significant impacts on adjacent lands or persons, or involve policy decisions
affecting a broad range of lands or persons.
28.020 - RULES OF PROCEDURE
A.  The Board of County Commissioners shall be governed by Chapter 30 of this
Code for the conduct of land use hearings.  Chapter 30 shall be available
upon request to all individuals at any hearing.
B.  Chapter 30 shall guarantee to all parties the opportunity to be heard, to
present evidence, to have a record developed, and to hav e a decision
rendered incorporating findings of fact and based on conclusions of law
supported by substantial evidence in the whole record.
C.  The Board of County Commissioners relies on the integrity of the applicant
and the veracity of the application.  If the applicant, the applicants
representative, or apparent representative, makes a misstatement of fact on
the application regarding factual material that is relied upon by the Review
Body in making a decision whether to approve the application, the Rev iew
Body may, upon notice to the applicant and subject to hearing rights, declare
the application denied.
28.030 PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE
A.  The Planning Director shall schedule public hearings and provide notice of
Board of County Commissioners Review i n accordance with state law and as
provided by Article 31 and Article 32.
B.  At the scheduled hearing, the Board of County Commissioners may, upon
request by the applicant, continue or reschedule a public hearing to a date
and time certain.  The applicant or a representative for the applicant must be
present at the hearing.  If no person is present to represent the applicant, the
application may be denied at the discretion of the Board of County
Commissioners.

 28 - 2
28.040 - REVIEW AND DECISION
A.  Public hearings conducted by the Board of County Commissioners shall be
called to order by the Chairperson at the time and date specified in the public
notice. The order of proceedings shall conform to Section 31.100.
B.  The Board of County Commissioners may continue an evidentiary hearing to
a date and time certain on a matter before it if, in its judgment, additional time
is necessary to review the proposal or to receive additional information
regarding the proposal.
C.  If a quorum of the Board of Commissioners is not present, the hearing
agenda is automatically continued to a date and time certain, to be posted on
location at the time of the hearing by Planning Department staff.
D.  Quasi-judicial and appeal hearings.
1.  At the conclusion of the final evidentiary hearing, the Board of County
Commissioners may make its decision to approve conditionally approve,
or deny an application based on review standards and criteria set forth in
this code; affirm, reverse or remand an appeal; or shall continue the
matter to a date and time certain for a decision.
2.  A decision of the Board of County Commissioners shall incorporate
findings of fact and conclusions of law based on substantial evidence in
the whole record.
3.  A decision of the Board of County Commissioners shall not be final until it
is reduced to writing in the form of a final order in accordance with Section
31.120.
28.050 - APPEAL
A land use decision of the Board of County Commissioners shall be final unless
appealed to the Oregon Land Use Board of Appeals (LUBA) as set forth in ORS
197.805 through 197.860.  An appeal to the Oregon Land Use Board of Appeals
does not stay the Board of County Commissioner decision unless LUBA grants a
stay in accordance with ORS 197.845.