40 - 1
CHAPTER 40
APPLICATION PROCEDURES
ARTICLE 40
BASIC PROVISIONS
40.010 - PURPOSE
The purpose of this chapter is to provide standards and criteria for development
permit and change of land use applications.
40.020 - TYPES OF APPLICATIONS
The types of development permit and change of land use procedures provided by
this code are as follows:
A. Site Plan Review
B. Temporary Use Permit
C. Variances
D. Conditional Use Permit
E. Land Partition
F. Subdivision of Land
G. Change of Zone Designation (Quasi-judicial)
H. Change of Comprehensive Plan/Zone Designation (Quasi-judicial)
I. Legislative Amendment to the Klamath County Comprehensive Plan, Land
Development Code or Zoning Map
ORD. 45.0             Adopt February 16, 1984
ORD. 44.92             Adopt January 30, 2012

 41 - 1
ARTICLE 41
SITE PLAN REVIEW
41.010 - PURPOSE
The purpose of Site Plan Review is to ensure compliance with the provisions this code
for uses and activities governed by this code.
41.020 - APPLICATION
Unless otherwise specified by this code, review of a site plan is required for:
A. Issuance of a building permit for new construction exclusive of interior remodeling;
B. Land use decisions involved in making a determination of land use compatibility for
any state or federal agency;
C. The construction, relocation, addition, extension, occupancy or use change of
structure;
D. Any development, or change of land use; or
E. Time extension requests.
41.030 - REVIEW PROCEDURE
A. Site Plan Review for all actions involving the application of clear and objectiv e
standards or review criteria shall be conducted according to the Type I
Administrative Review Procedure.
B. Site Plan Review for all land use decisions involving interpretation or the exercise of
factual, policy or legal judgment shall be conducted according to the Type II
Administrative Review Procedure.
41.040 - REVIEW CRITERIA
A. A site plan may only be approved if it meets all applicable review standards and
criteria of this code.
B. A site plan shall be reviewed against all applicable requirement s of this code.
ORD 45.0           Adopt February 16, 1984
ORD 45.55 Art. 41.050(B)            Adopt November 08, 2005                 Acknowledged December 1, 2005
ORD. 44.92             Adopt January 30, 2012

 41 - 2
41.050 - PROCESSING
A. Initiation - An application for Site Plan Review shall be initiated by the owner, or
agent of the owner, of the property for which review is sought. An agent's application
shall be authorized in writing by the owner.
B. Filing - An application for Site Plan Review shall be filed on forms provided by the
Planning Department, and shall set forth in detail all necessary information. If the
development does not have direct permitted access for the intended use to an
established public right -of-way, the applicant shall provide documentation
demonstrating proof of legal access. The documentation must be complete, legible,
presented in a graphic form and orderly manner, and include source documents
such as deeds or grants of easements, neither a preliminary title report nor a title
policy shall be considered proof of legal access.
C. Filing Fee - An application for Site Plan Review shall be accompanied by a filing fee
set by the Board of County Commissioners to defray costs  incidental to the review
process.
D. Incomplete Applications - Applications which are found to be incomplete or
inaccurate by the Planning Director or his/her designee shall be returned to the
applicant within 5 days of submittal along with a statement o f specific deficiencies to
be corrected. The applicant shall have 30 days from the postmark date of the notice
in which to submit an amended application. If the applicant fails to complete or
correct the application within the time provided, the application shall be deemed
complete and transmitted to the appropriate review body with a recommendation for
denial.
41.060 - SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS
Site plans shall include the following information:
A. Tax lot number and street address;
B. Dimensions of property, scale, and north arrow;
C. Location, name, width and surface type of adjacent streets;
D. Location, dimensions and surface type of existing or proposed driveways
or parking areas;

ORD 45.0 Adopt February 16, 1984
ORD 44.84 Art. 41.060(N) Adopt June 22, 2010 Acknowledged August 2, 2010
ORD. 44.92 Adopt January 30, 2012
ORD. 45.103 Adopt May 30, 2023

 41 - 3
E. Location, dimensions (including height), and use or occupancy o f all
existing and proposed structures on the property, including accessory
structures, decks, balconies, and other structural elements;
F. Distance from property lines to existing and proposed structures, septic
tanks, drain lines, and wells;
G. Location of water and drainage features and the flow direction of any
ponds, channels, creeks, swales or other drainage facilities effecting the
proposed use;
H. Location, type, and dimensions of proposed on-site sewage disposal and
water supply, if any;
I. Location and descriptions of any topographic or developed features on
the site, such as rock outcrops, excavations, etc.;
J. Location and dimensions of all easements;
K. Landscaping as required by Article 65;
L. Signs as required by Article 66;
M. Parking as required in Article 68;
N. Vehicular, pedestrian, and bicycle access and circulation as required by
Article 71;
O. Other appropriate information that otherwise may be required by this
code, including a Traffic Impact Study pursuant to Section 71.200;
P. Signature of applicant.
41.070 - PERFORMANCE AGREEMENT
The review body may require a performance agreement pursuant to Article 15 in
order to ensure compliance with any requirements of this code or conditions of
the review body.
41.080 - TIME LIMIT ON SITE PLAN REVIEW
An approved site plan shall be void after 365 days if no building permit has been
issued.

ORD. 45.91 Adopted January 25, 2018
ORD. 45.100 Adopted November 29, 2022
 42 - 1
ARTICLE 42
TEMPORARY USE PERMIT
42.010 - PURPOSE
The purpose of the Temporary Use Permit is to provide for the establishment of
uses on a short-term basis.
42.020 - REVIEW PROCEDURE
An application for a Temporary Use Permit shall be subject to the Type II
Administrative Review Procedure.
42.030 - PERMITTED TEMPORARY USES
A. One manufactured dwelling in conjunction with an existing dwelling for the
term of a medical hardship suffered by the resident or an immediate relative
requiring care.
B. One recreational vehicle in conjunction with an existing dwelling for the term
of a medical hardship suffered by the resident or an immediate relative
requiring care.
C. A manufactured dwelling or recreational vehicle occupied during construction
or development of a site.
D. A temporary construction office.
E. Temporary or seasonal labor camps.
F. Temporary or seasonal fairs or Outdoor Mass Gatherings.
G. Other uses as determined by the Planning Director in accordance with the
Type II Administrative Review Procedure.
H. S easonal or Transient Businesses.
ORD. 45.91 Adopted January 25, 2018
ORD. 45.100 Adopted November 29, 2022
 42 - 2
42.040 - PROCESSING
A. Initiation - An application for Site Plan Review shall be initiated by the owner,
or agent of the owner, of the property for which review is sought. An agent's
application shall be authorized in writing by the owner.
B. Filing - An application for Site Plan Review shall be filed on forms provided by
the Planning Department, and shall set forth in detail all necessary
information, and shall be accompanied by a site plan drawn to the
requirements of Section 41.060. If the development does not have direct
permitted access for the intended use to an established public right -of-way,
the applicant shall  provide documentation demonstrating proof of legal
access. The documentation must be complete, legible, presented in a graphic
form and orderly manner, and include source documents such as deeds or
grants of easements, neither a preliminary title report nor a title policy shall be
considered proof of legal access.
C. Filing Fee - An application for a Temporary Use Permit or Annual Review
shall be accompanied by an application fee.
D. Incomplete Applications - Applications which are found to be incomplete or
inaccurate by the Planning Director or his/her designee shall be returned to
the applicant within 5 days of submittal along with a statement of specific
deficiencies to be corrected. The applicant shall have 30 days from the
postmark date of the notice to which to submit an amended application. If the
applicant fails to complete or correct the application within the time provided,
the application shall be deemed complete and transmitted to the appropriate
review body with a recommendation for denial.
E. Within 5 days of receiving an application, the Planning Director or his/her
designee shall  check the National Wetlands Inventory maps, located in the
Planning Department, to determine if the site proposed for development may
have a wetland located on it. If it is determined that a wetland may be located
on a site proposed for development, the Planning Director or his/her designee
shall notify the Division of State Lands on a form provided. A copy of the letter
shall be sent to the applicant. A final decision on the application cannot be
rendered until the 30 day comment period, which begins on the day the
notification letter is sent, has expired.
F. Time Limitation - No request for a Temporary Use Permit shall be considered
by a review body within a one- year period immediately following a previous
denial of such request.
ORD. 45.91 Adopted January 25, 2018
ORD. 45.100 Adopted November 29, 2022
 42 - 3
42.050 - REVIEW CRITERIA AND STANDARDS
A. A Temporary Use Permit may only be approved if it meets all applicable
criteria and standards of this code.
B. A Temporary Use, its location, size design and operating characteristics will
not have a significant adverse impact on the livability, value or appropriate
development of abutting properties and the surrounding area.
C. Hardship dwellings shall meet the following criteria:
1. The medical hardship is certified by a licensed physician;
2. The manufactured dwelling or recreational vehicle is connected to the
existing sewage disposal system except when the County Environmental
Health Division determines that an existing system is inadequate and
cannot be made adequate;
3. The manufactured dwelling or recreational vehicle is located as close as
practical to the existing primary residence; and
4. The manufactured dwelling or recreational vehicle shall be removed from
the property when the hardship condition ceases.
D. Manufactured dwellings or recreational vehicles used temporarily during
development of a site or as a temporary construction office may only be
approved if a building permit for the primary development has been issued.
The review body shall determine if the temporary residence or office is
required for development of the primary use.
E. The review body may grant a Temporary Use Permit subject to such
reasonable conditions based on finding of fact that it deems necessary to
ensure compliance with the Klamath County Comprehensive Plan, Land
Development Code, and sound land use planning principles.
42.055 – OUTDOOR MASS GATHERING REVIEW CRITERIA & STANDARDS
A. Organizers will be required to apply for a temporary use permit if the event
falls within the definition of an Outdoor Mass Gathering at least 35 days in
advance. Applications are subject to Type II Administrative Review and must
include the following to 1- ensure the health, safety and welfare of those
attending the event, 2 -protect the owners of neighboring properties, and 3-
protect the legal interests and rights of the organizer(s) themselves:
ORD. 45.91 Adopted January 25, 2018
ORD. 45.100 Adopted November 29, 2022
 42 - 4
1. Name, address and telephone number(s) of applicant(s).
2. Legal description of the place of the proposed event.
3. Date of the proposed event.
4. Estimated attendance at the proposed event.
5. Nature/purpose of the proposed event.
6. Site plan showing all applicable attributes as required by the Klamath
County Planning Department.
7. The organizer(s) shall address food-handling requirements, water, waste
disposal, portable sanitation and other applicable health standards to be
approved by the Klamath County Department of Environmental Health
as shown by the sign- off on the Land Use Compatibility Statement
(LUCS) issued by the Klamath County Planning Department.
8. An off street parking plan that includes one parking space per four
people expected to attend the event. In addition, spaces shall be
provided for vehicles associated with the event (e.g. busses, trucks,
limousines and staff vehicles).
9. A plan for safe and adequate access to the event site to be approve d by
the Klamath County Department of Public Works as shown by the sign
off on the Land Use Compatibility Statement (LUCS) issued by the
Klamath County Planning Department.
10. Fire protection and prevention shall be provided by a public entity or on-
site fire protection equipment will be available that has been approved by
the appropriate fire district. The organizer(s) shall submit a signed
statement from the appropriate agency.
11. Emergency medical facilities and communication systems will be
available and an ambulance shall be required on site. The organizer(s)
shall submit a signed statement from the appropriate agency.
12. Security personnel and/or measures will be available and the Klamath
County Sheriff shall be notified of the event.
13. Organizer(s) shall sign a statement holding themselves responsible for
any incidents of trespass or vandalism on adjacent or nearby property.
14. Organizer(s) shall sign a statement explaining that after the event, the
site will be restored to its original condition in a timely manner (72 hours
ORD. 45.91 Adopted January 25, 2018
ORD. 45.100 Adopted November 29, 2022
 42 - 5
for debris, residue and trash removal; and 3 weeks for temporary
structure removal).
15. A signed statement from the organizer(s) that the event is compatible
with existing land uses and will not materially alter the stability of the
overall land use pattern of the area.
16. Application fee.
42.060 – TIME LIMIT ON TEMPORARY USE PERMIT APPROVAL
A. Temporary Use Permits for Medical Hardships shall be subject to biennial
(every two years) review in accordance with the Type II administrative review
procedure.
1. The Planning Director or designee shall review the temporary use to
determine continued compliance with this code or conditions of
approval. For medical hardship cases, the applicant shall provide a
signed doctor’s  statement indicating that the circumstances of the
medical hardship continue to exist.
2. The Planning Director  may revoke a Temporary Use Permit upon a
finding that the temporary nature of the use has expired or that the
applicant has not complied with this code or conditions of approval.
B. Temporary Use Permits for the use of a Manufactured Home or Recreational
Vehicle during construction or development of a site shall be subject to
annual reviews (every year) in accordance with the Type II Administrative
Review Procedure.
1. The Planning Director or designee shall review the temporary use to
determine continued compliance with this code or conditions of
approval.
2. The Planning Director may revoke a Temporary Use Permit upon a
finding that a septic system has not been constructed on the site within
the first year of a Temporary Use Permit Approval.
C. The time limits for any other Temporary Use Permit shall be determined by
the review body.
42.070 - PERFORMANCE AGREEMENT
The review body may require a performance agreement pursuant to Article 15 in
order to ensure compliance with any requirements of this code or conditions of
the review body.
 43 - 1
ARTICLE 43
VARIANCES
43.010 - PURPOSE
The purpose of a Variance is to permit justifiable departures from the
requirements of this code where, because of the particular physical surroundings,
shape, topography, or other conditions not created by the owne r of the property,
the literal application would result in an undue or unnecessary hardship on the
owner. It is not the purpose of a Variance to authorize a use or activity not
permitted by the land use zone regulations governing the property.
43.020 - REVIEW PROCEDURE
Applications for a Variance shall be reviewed according to the Type II
Administrative Review Procedure (Article 22), except as follows:
A. An application for a Variance may be referred at the discretion of the Planning
Director to the Hear ings Officer for review under the Hearings Officer Review
Procedure (Article 24).
B. An application for a Variance when in conjunction with a conditional use
permit shall be reviewed according to the appropriate review procedure
identified in Article 44.
C. An application for a Variance when in conjunction with a land partition or
subdivision or Planned Unit Development shall be reviewed according to the
appropriate review procedure for the land division or development request.
43.030 - REVIEW CRITERIA
A. A Variance may only be approved if it meets all applicable review criteria.
B. A Variance shall be reviewed against the following criteria:
1. The literal enforcement of this code would result in practical difficulty or
unnecessary hardship to the own er. The difficulty or hardship may arise
from the property's size, shape or topography, or from the location of
lawfully existing buildings or improvements;
2. The condition causing the difficulty was not created by the applicant;
 43 - 2
3. The granting of the  Variance will not be detrimental to the use and
enjoyment of adjacent properties, and will not authorize uses or activities
not permitted by the land use zone regulations governing the property;
and
4. The granting of the Variance will not be contrary to  the intent of this
code.
C. Conditions - The reviewing authority may grant a Variance subject to such
reasonable conditions based on findings of fact as will ensure that:
1. Any departure from the requirements of this code will not constitute a
grant of  special privileges inconsistent with the limitations upon other
properties in the vicinity or the land use zone in which the property is
located; and
2. Conditions are necessary, in the judgment of the review authority, to
protect the best interests of surrounding property or neighborhood.
43.040 - PROCESSING
Applications for a Variance shall be processed as follows:
A. Initiation - An application for a Variance shall be initiated by the owner or
agent of the owner of the property proposed as the site of the Variance. An
agent's application shall be authorized in writing by the owner.
B. Filing - An application for a Variance shall be filed on forms provided by the
Planning Department, shall set forth in detail all necessary information, and
shall be a ccompanied by a site plan drawn to the requirements of Section
41.060.
C. Pre-application conference - An application for a Variance shall be subject to
the pre-application procedures (Article 21).
D. Filing Fee - An application for a Variance shall be a ccompanied by a filing fee
set by the Board of County Commissioners to defray costs incidental to the
review process.
E. Incomplete Applications - Applications which are found to be incomplete or
inaccurate by the Planning Director or his/her designee sha ll be returned to
the applicant within 5 days of submittal along with a statement of specific
deficiencies to be corrected. The applicant shall have 30 days from the
postmark date of the notice in which to submit an amended application. If the
 43 - 3
applicant fails to complete or correct the application within the time provided,
the application shall be deemed complete and transmitted to the appropriate
review body with a recommendation for denial.
F. Within 5 days of receiving an application, the Planning Direc tor or his/her
designee shall check the National Wetlands Inventory maps, located in the
Planning Department, to determine if the site proposed for development may
have a wetland located on it. If it is determined that a wetland may be located
on a site proposed for development, the Planning Director or his/her designee
shall notify the Division of State Lands on a form provided. A copy of the letter
shall be sent to the applicant. A final decision on the application cannot be
rendered until the 30 -day comm ent period, which begins on the day the
notification letter is sent, has expired.
G. Time Limitation - No request for a Variance shall be considered by a review
body within a one-year period immediately following a previous denial of such
request.
H. Expiration - Variance approvals will expire in two years from the date of
approval and are not subject to extension.
43.050 - PERFORMANCE AGREEMENT
The review body may require a performance agreement pursuant to Article 15 in
order to ensure compliance with  any requirements of this code or conditions of
the review body.
43.060 – EXCEPTIONS FOR ACCESSORY BUILDINGS
A. A variance may be granted to allow an accessory building in the absence of a
primary building/use on a lot or parcel outside the Urban Growth Boundary. A
permit must have been denied that would prevent the establishment of a
primary building/use on that lot or parcel. An applicant applying for this
variance shall submit a letter from the department that denied the permit
specifying the conditions resulting in the permit’s denial. This letter is required
as part of this variance application. An accessory building allowed by this
variance shall meet the following criteria:
1. The structure shall not exceed 700 square feet of floor space or one
story in height;
2. The structure shall have no windows of any kind;
3. The structure may have manually operable garage doors and must have
at least one man door; and
 43 - 4
4. Plumbing, stack vents or anything that would require an electric,
plumbing or mechanical permit shall not be allowed.
B. Only one accessory building allowed by this variance shall be permitted per
lot or parcel; the structure shall meet setback requirements described in
Article 62; & nothing shall be stored outside the structure.
C. The f ollowing shall not be stored in an accessory building allowed by this
section:
1) Recreational vehicles (RV),
2) Any type of manufactured dwelling,
3) Animals, and
4) Motor vehicles in a wrecked, dismantled and/or disassembled
condition.
D. With regards to access to the accessory building, a driveway permit must be
obtained from the Department of Public Works.
E. A variance under this section shall be reviewed and processed pursuant to
Section 43.020 and 43.040 respectively.
ORD. 44.92 Adopt January 30, 2012
ORD. 45.100 Adopt November 29, 2022
 44 - 1
ARTICLE 44
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
44.010 - PURPOSE
The purpose of the Conditional Use Permit is to provide a mechanism whereby
uses which may be suitable only in certain locations or only if designed or
operated in a particular manner may be allowed within the basic zone
designation.
44.020 - REVIEW PROCEDURE
Applications for a Conditional Use Permit shall be reviewed as follows:
A. Hearings Officer Review Procedure (Article 24)
1. Conditional Use Permit applications for any use located outside the
Urban Growth Boundary except for those in con- junction with a
subdivision or planned unit development or any application for mining
and/or mineral processing; or
2. Extensive Impact Services and Utilities involving land within the Urban
Growth Boundary.
3. In the absence of a Hearings Officer, the Planning Director shall provide
for a Type II Review, as prescribed per Article 22.
 {Art. 45.020(A)(3) added – no text deleted}
B. Type II Administrative Review Procedure (Article 22)
Conditional Use Permit appl ications for all uses within the Urban Growth
Boundary except for Extensive Impact Services and Utilities involving land
located within an Urban Growth Boundary and those in conjunction with a
subdivision or planned unit development.
C. Planning Commission Review Procedure (Article 26)
An application for a Conditional Use Permit in conjunction with a subdivision
or planned unit development inside or outside the Urban Growth Boundary.
44.030 - REVIEW CRITERIA
A. The use complies with policies of the Comprehensive Plan;
ORD. 44.92 Adopt January 30, 2012
ORD. 45.100 Adopt November 29, 2022
 44 - 2
B. The use is in conformance with all other required standards and criteria of this
code; and
C. The location, size, design, and operating characteristics of the proposed use
will not have a significant adverse impact on the livability, value or appropriate
development of abutting properties and the surrounding area. This includes
impacts on the transportation system to be determined pursuant to Section
71.200.
D. Conditions - The review body may grant a Conditional Use Permit subject to
such reasonable conditions, pursuant to Section 20.040,  based on findings of
fact that it deems necessary to ensure compliance with the Klamath County
Comprehensive Plan, Land Development code,  Urban Area Transportation
System Plan, and sound land use planning principles.
44.040 - PROCESSING
Applications for a Conditional Use Permit shall be processed as follows:
A. Initiation - An application for a Conditional Use Permit shall be initiated by the
owner, or agent of the owner of the property proposed as t he site of the
conditional use. An agent's application shall be authorized in writing by the
owner.
B. Filing - An application for a Conditional Use Permit shall be filed on forms
provided by the Planning Department, shall set forth in detail all necessar y
information, and shall be accompanied by a site plan drawn to the
requirements of Section 41.060 and any other requirements of this code. If
the development does not have direct permitted access for the intended use
to an established public right -of-way, the applicant shall provide
documentation demonstrating proof of legal access. The documentation must
be complete, legible, presented in a graphic form and orderly manner, and
include source documents such as deeds or grants of easements, neither a
preliminary title report nor a title policy shall be considered proof of legal
access.
C. Pre-application Conference - An application for a Conditional Use Permit shall
be subject to the pre-application procedure (Article 21).
D. Filing Fee - An application for a Conditional Use Permit shall be accompanied
by a filing fee set by the Board of County Commissioners to defray the cost
incidental to the review process.
ORD. 44.92 Adopt January 30, 2012
ORD. 45.100 Adopt November 29, 2022
 44 - 3
E. Incomplete Applications -  Applications which are found to be incomplete or
inaccurate by the P lanning Director or his/her designee shall be returned to
the applicant within 5 days of submittal along with a statement of specific
deficiencies to be corrected. The applicant shall have 30 days from the
postmark date of the notice in which to submit an amended application. If the
applicant fails to complete or correct the application within the time provided,
the application shall be deemed complete and transmitted to the appropriate
review body with a recommendation for denial.
F. Within 5 business day s of receiving an application, the Planning Director or
his/her designee shall check the National Wetlands Inventory maps, located
in the Planning Department, to determine if the site proposed for development
may have a wetland located on it. If it is determined that a wetland may be
located on a site proposed for development, the Planning Director or his/her
designee shall notify the Division of State Lands on a form provided. A copy
of the letter shall be sent to the applicant. A final decision on the application
cannot be rendered until the 30- day comment period, which begins on the
day the notification letter is sent, has expired.
G. Time Limitation - No request for a Conditional Use permit shall be considered
by a review body within a one- year period i mmediately following a previous
denial of such request.
44.050 - TIME LIMIT ON CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT APPROVAL
A. A Conditional Use Permit shall be void after 2 years if a development permit
has not been issued or has expired, except as noted in part E of this section.
B. A Conditional Use Permit is considered void if the use is discontinued for a
period of 1 year.
C. Requests for an extension of time for an approved and final Conditional Use
Permit shall be reviewed in accordance with the Type I Admini strative Review
Procedure.
D. Requests for an extension of time based on substantial development of an
approved and final Conditional Use Permit shall be reviewed against the
following criteria:
1. The nature of the project and original conditions;
ORD. 44.92 Adopt January 30, 2012
ORD. 45.100 Adopt November 29, 2022
 44 - 4
2. The acts of the property owner must arise beyond mere contemplated
use.
3. Development is unable to occur due to circumstances beyond the control
of the owner.
4. A Conditional Use Permit will be limited to three (3) one- year time
extensions.
44.060 - PERFORMANCE AGREEMENT
The review body may require a performance agreement pursuant to Article 15 in
order to ensure compliance with any requirements of this code or conditions of
the review body.
 45 - 1
ARTICLE 45
LAND PARTITION
45.010 - PURPOSE
The purpose of the land partitioning procedure is to ensure that the division of
lands into parcels for subsequent use and development is conducted in an
orderly manner and in compliance with this code and Oregon law.
45.020 - REVIEW PROCEDURE
A. A land partition request and tentative partition plan shall be reviewed
according to the Type II Administrative Review Procedure (Article 22).
B. A land partition request and tentative partition plan associated with a
conditional use permit for a dwelling not necessary and accessory to farm use
shall be reviewed according to the Hearings Officer Review Procedure (Article
24).
45.030 - PARTITION RESTRICTIONS
No partition shall be approved within a subdivision, planne d unit development, or
previously approved partition unless the standards of Article 71 are met. The
review body may waive requirements of Article 71 upon a finding that adequate
access exists and relevant road standards are met.
45.040 - REVIEW CRITERIA
A. A partition request may only be approved if it meets all applicable standards
and review criteria.
B. A partition request shall be reviewed against the following criteria:
1. The proposed partition complies with policies of the Comprehensive
Plan;
2. The proposed partition is in conformance with all standards and criteria
of this code and applicable state statutes;
3. The subject property is physically suitable for the type and proposed
density of development and conforms to zone standards;
 45 - 2
4. The parcels are located and laid out to properly relate to adjoining or
nearby lot or parcel lines, utilities, street, or other existing or planned
facilities;
5. The sewer and water facilities and existing fire protection services are
adequate to serve the d ensity of development resulting from the
proposed partition;
6. The proposed partition has legal access to the property;
7. The proposed partition will not conflict with legally established
easements or access within or adjacent to the parcel configurati on
resulting from subject property; and
8. The proposed partition will not prohibit the extension of dedicated streets
or roads.
45.050 - PROCESSING
Applications for a partition shall be processed as follows:
A. Initiation - An application for a partit ion shall be initiated by the owner, or
agent of the owner, of the property proposed as the site of the partition. An
agent's application shall be authorized in writing by the owner.
B. Filing - An application for a partition shall be filed on forms provi ded by the
Planning Department, shall set forth in detail all necessary information, and
shall be accompanied by a tentative partition plan drawn to the requirements
of Section 45.060. If the development does not have direct permitted access
for the intend ed use to an established public right -of-way, the applicant shall
provide documentation demonstrating proof of legal access. The
documentation must be complete, legible, presented in a graphic form and
orderly manner, and include source documents such as d eeds or grants of
easements, neither a preliminary title report nor a title policy shall be
considered proof of legal access.
C. Filing Fee - An application for a partition shall be accompanied by a filing fee
set by the Board of County Commissioners to d efray costs incidental to the
review process.
D. Incomplete Applications - Applications which are found to be incomplete or
inaccurate by the Planning Director or his/her designee shall be returned to
the applicant within 5 days of submittal along with a statement of specific
deficiencies to be corrected. The applicant shall have 30 days from the
postmark date of the notice in which to submit an amended application. If the
 45 - 3
applicant fails to complete or correct the application within the time provided,
the application shall be deemed complete and transmitted to the appropriate
review body with a recommendation for denial.
E. Within 5 days of receiving an application, the Planning Director or his/her
designee shall check the National Wetlands Inventory maps , located in the
Planning Department, to determine if the site proposed for development may
have a wetland located on it. If it is determined that a wetland may be located
on a site proposed for development, the Planning Director or his/her designee
shall notify the Division of State Lands on a form provided. A copy of the letter
shall be sent to the applicant. A final decision on the application cannot be
rendered until the 30 -day comment period, which begins on the day the
notification letter is sent, has expired.
F. Time Limitation - No request for a partition shall be considered by a review
body within a one-year period immediately following a previous denial of such
request.
45.060 - TENTATIVE PARTITION PLAN REQUIREMENTS
A. Preparation and Submission - The applicant shall cause a tentative partition
plan to be prepared, together with additional information that may be required
by this code to indicate the objectives of the development.
B. Copies - The applicant shall submit to the Planning Department the original
drawing or acceptable tracing, and 15 copies of the tentative partition plan.
C. Drawing Requirements - Tentative partition plans shall be drawn on 18 inch
by 24 inch tracing medium suitable for diazo copying purposes. Tentative
partition plans shall be drawn to an appropriate engineer's scale.
D. Required Information - The tentative partition plan shall show the following
information:
1. Partition number assigned by the Planning Department;
2. North arrow, scale, and date of preparation;
3. A vicinity map showing the general location of the property;
4. All exterior lot lines and approximate dimensions of the property being
partitioned;
5. All proposed lot lines and approximate dimensions;
 45 - 4
6. Jurisdictional or political boundaries;
7. The property location (township, range, section and subdivision - where
applicable);
8. Approximate acreage of each parcel;
9. The existing and proposed use of the land;
10. Boundary lines of adjacent properties and the names of owners of
record;
11. Approximate direction of slope and approximate percentage of slope for
all parcels under 10 acres in size to be created;
12. Major natural physical features such as steep slopes, bluffs, rock
outcroppings, canyons, all drainage;
13. All bodies of water such as rivers, streams, lakes, irrigation facilities;
14. The location and outline of existing buildings or other improvements on
the property, and the address, if available;
15. The location, width and names of all existing and proposed streets or
roads on or adjacent to the property;
16. The location and width of all existing and proposed easements on the
property;
17. The location of all existing water wells, and the approximate location of
any existing septic tanks and leach field on each parcel;
18. All existing and proposed utilities and the method of serving each parcel,
including the source of domestic water and the method of sewage
disposal;
19. Existing and proposed means of vehicular access to each parcels;
20. Approximate street grades and direction of surface water drainage flow
on existing or proposed streets or roads;
21. The Comprehensive Plan and zoning designation(s) applicable to the
property;
22. The name(s), address(es) and telephone number(s) of owners, contract
purchasers, or representative of the property; and
 45 - 5
23. The name, address, and telephone number(s) of the person preparing
the tentative partition plan.
24. For a land partition of rural residential lands, a fifty (50) -foot structural
setback shall be indicated from those  residential property lines that are
contiguous to resource lands.
E. Property Owners List - Names and addresses of all property owners as
shown on the last preceding tax roll of the Klamath County Assessor shall be
submitted in the following manner:
1. For land partitions involving land planned and zoned for agriculture or
forestry, the property owners list shall encompass all property within 500
feet of the subject property;
2. For land partitions partially or wholly outside of an urban growth
boundary but not involving land planned and zoned for agriculture or
forestry, the property owners list shall encompass all property within 300
feet of the subject property; or
3. For land partition inside of an urban growth boundary, the property
owners list sha ll encompass all property within 200 feet of the subject
property.
45.070 - TENTATIVE PARTITION PLAN REVIEW
A. Referral of the Tentative Partition Plan for Comment - No later than 15 days
prior to the scheduled review date, the Planning Director shall fu rnish 1 copy
of the tentative partition plan and supplemental materials to parties interested
in or potentially affected by the proposed partition for their review and
comment.
B. Property Inspection - All proposed partitions may be inspected by the
Planning Director, County Surveyor, Public Works Director, Environmental
Health Director, or their authorized representatives prior to the scheduled
review date. Unusual conditions that would adversely affect the subject
property or adjacent property shall be n oted, and appropriate
recommendations developed for consideration by the review body.
C. Survey of Parcels - The County Surveyor, upon review of the tentative
partition plan, may recommend a survey of the property. Any parcel created
by partition that is 10 acres or less in size shall be surveyed in accordance
with applicable state statutes.
 45 - 6
D. Review - The appropriate review body shall review the tentative partition plan
and all supplemental materials required by this code, and render a decision
pursuant to procedures of Chapter 20.
E. Conditions - The review body may grant approval of a partition plan subject to
such reasonable conditions based on findings of fact that it deems necessary
to ensure compliance with the Klamath County Comprehensive Plan or  Land
Development Code.
F. Submission of Final Plat - An applicant for a land partition shall cause a final
plat to be prepared and recorded with the County Clerk within 1 year of the
final decision on the tentative partition plan. The applicant shall sub mit a final
plat and all supplementary materials to the Planning Director not less than 30
days prior to the deadline, and shall secure all necessary approvals and
signatures within 30 days of submitting the final plat to the County. The final
plat shall conform to the approved tentative partition plan, Section 45.100 and
applicable state statutes.
G. If the time period for recording the final plat expires without the approved time
extension, the applicant shall file a new partition application.
45.080 - IMPROVEMENTS
A. The Director of Public Works may specify, or the review body require,
improvements and/or repairs to roads or infrastructure to be installed or
completed by the applicant.
B. The applicant shall complete all required improvements or repai rs prior to
filing the final plat with the County, or shall execute a performance agreement
with the County pursuant to Article 15.
C. All required road improvements or repair of existing roads and public facilities
shall be made in accordance with the re quirements of the Director of Public
Works.
D. An improvement inspection fee shall accompany the submission of the final
plat for those developments requiring improvements or repairs.
45.090 - TIME EXTENSION
Prior to the expiration date of approval of th e tentative partition plan, an applicant
may apply for a time extension.
 45 - 7
A. Requests for time extension shall be filed on forms provided by the Planning
Department, and accompanied by the established fee.
B. Review of requests for time extension shall be  reviewed according to the
Planning Director Review Procedure.
C. Review Criteria - In order to approve a request for time extension, the
Planning Director must find that:
1. The facts upon which the approval of the tentative partition plan was
based have not changed to an extent sufficient to warrant re -submittal of
the tentative partition plan;
2. No other development approvals would be adversely affected by the
time extension; and
3. The applicant is unable to file the final partition plat due to circumstances
beyond his or her control.
D. A maximum of 3 time extensions may be granted following the date of
approval of the tentative partition plan. The cumulative length of time
extensions shall not exceed 3 years.
E. If a request for time extension i s denied and the time period for recording the
final plat expires, a new partition application must be filed.
45.100 - FINAL PLAT REQUIREMENTS
A. Original Drawing - The original drawing of a partition plat shall be made in
archive quality black ink on mi nimum 4 mil mylar, 18 inches by 24 inches in
size with an additional 3 inch binding edge on the left side. The plat shall be
of such a scale as required by the County Surveyor. The lettering of the
approvals, the surveyors certificate and signature, and al l other information
shall be of such a size or type as will be clearly legible, but no part shall come
nearer any edge of the sheet than 1 inch. The original drawing shall be
recorded in the County Clerk's office.
B. Copy - One exact archival quality copy  of the original plat on minimum 4 mil
mylar, 18 inches by 24 inches in size shall be submitted to the Planning
Director along with the original plat.
C. Information Shown on the Final Plat
1. The partition number;
 45 - 8
2. The name of the person for whom the partition was made;
3. Signature Blocks for the following:
a. Planning Director;
b. County Surveyor;
c. Director of Public Works (if required under Section 45.110(C));
d. County Clerk;
e. Tax Collector;
f. A signed, notarized declaration and survey or’s certificate that
meets the requirements of Oregon Revised Statutes Chapter 92.
4. All requirements of ORS Chapter 92, and ORS Chapter 209 where
applicable; and
5. Street names adjacent to the partition.
6. For a land partition of rural residential lands, a fifty (50) -foot structural
setback shall be indicated from those residential property lines that are
contiguous to resource lands.
D. Supplemental Information to be filed with the Final Plat
1. A preliminary title report or partition guarantee i ssued by a title company
in the name of the owner of the land and prepared within 30 days prior to
submittal of the final plat showing all parties having any record title
interest in the premises and what interest they have.
2. For any lot or parcel created by a partition that is 10 acres or less in size,
the applicant shall secure certification in the form of a completed and
approved Site Evaluation Report for location and methods of On -Site
Sewage Treatment and Disposal Systems from the Klamath County
Health Department and/or the Oregon Department of Environmental
Quality. The date of site evaluation approval shall be recorded on the
Final Plat.
3. Computation sheets showing the bearings, distances and error of
closure, if any, and the curve data of each  surveyed parcel of the
partition and the outside boundary if surveyed (ORS 92.100).
45.110 - FINAL PLAT REVIEW
A. Approval of the County Planning Director - The Planning Director shall
thoroughly review the final plat and supplementary information upon its
submission within the required time frame. The final plat shall be signed by
 45 - 9
the Planning Director if it is in conformance with the tentative partition plan
and the requirements of this code.
B. Approval of the County Surveyor - The County Surveyor sh all thoroughly
review the final plat and supplementary information to determine that the plat
complies with this code and all applicable state statutes. The final plat shall
be signed by the County Surveyor if it is correct and in full conformance with
this code and applicable state statutes.
C. Approval by the Director of Public Works on any partition that includes the
creation of an access road or easement. The Director of Public Works shall
review and sign the final plat if any of the following conditio ns were required,
and have been met:
1. All required easements are recorded; and
2. All required improvements or repairs have been completed, or a
performance agreement executed with the Director of Public Works in
accordance with Article 15.
D. Approval of Tax Collector - No subdivision or partition plat shall be recorded
unless all ad valorem taxes, including additional taxes, interest and penalties
imposed on land disqualified for any special assessment and all special
assessments, fees, or other char ges required by law to be placed upon the
tax roll have been paid which have become a lien upon the land or which will
become a lien during the tax year. The County Tax Collector shall determine
if these taxes have been paid, and if taxes have been paid, s hall sign the final
plat.
E. Filing of Final Plat - After obtaining all required approvals and signatures, the
applicant shall record the plat with the County Clerk and file an exact copy
with the County Surveyor or County Planning Director. The exact cop y shall
be made in conformance with Section 45.100 and applicable state statutes.
F. Expiration - Approval of the final plat shall be null and void if the plat is not
recorded within 1 year of the final decision of the tentative partition plan
unless a time extension has been granted.
45.120 – CREATION OF PARCELS IN RURAL RESIDENTIAL  LAND LESS
THEN THE MINIMUM LOT SIZE
A. Lots zoned R -2 and R -5, described in Chapter 50, may be partitioned,
resulting in parcels that are less then the minimum lot size if a ll of the
following (1-5) exist:
 45 - 10
1. The parcel to be divided has two or more permanent habitable dwellings
on it;
2. The permanent habitable dwellings on the parcel to be divided were
established before October 4, 2000;
3. Each new parcel created by the  partition would have at least one of
those permanent habitable dwellings on it;
4. The partition would not create any vacant parcels on which a new
dwelling could be established; and
5. Each parcel must have separate septic approval.
B. For the purpose of this rule, “habitable dwelling” means a dwelling that meets
the Criteria set forth in ORS 215.283 (t)(A)-(t)(D).
ORD. 44.99 Adopt May 27, 2014
ORD. 45.102 Adopt August 15, 2023 CLUP 2-23
 45.5 - 1
ARTICLE 45.5
PROPERTY LINE ADJUSTMENT
45.510 – PURPOSE
The purpose of this article is to standardize property line adjustment procedures
and ensure that the requirements of this code are met. “Property line” means the
division line between two units of land. “Property line adjustment” means a
relocation of all or a portion of the common property line between abutting
properties that does not create an additional lot or parcel.
45.520 – REVIEW PROCEDURE
 A property line adjustment shall be processed accor ding to a Type I
administrative review procedure.
45.530 – REVIEW CRITERIA
A property line adjustment may only be approved if it meets all applicable
standards and review criteria.
A.  No property line adjustment will be approved unless both contiguous parcels
are lawfully created and have legal access;
B. A property line adjustment shall not result in the creation of a new parcel;
C. The parcels resulting from the property line adjustment conform to zoning
regulation in terms of size, shape and setback requirements;
D. Adjustments to nonconforming lots or parcels shall not result in greater
nonconformity or render substantially conformed lots or parcel more
nonconforming. A reduction in the size of a nonconforming lot or parcel may
be approved if it contributes substantially to bringing an adjacent
nonconforming parcel closer into conformance;
E. The property line adjustment will not interfere with any public or private
easement; and
F. The Property Line Adjustment is not part of a series of Property Line
Adjustments reconfiguring lots within a subdivision.

ORD. 44.99 Adopt May 27, 2014
ORD. 45.102 Adopt August 15, 2023 CLUP 2-23
 45.5 - 2
45.540 – PROCESSING
A. Initiation – An application for a property line adjustment shall be initiated by
the owners, or agent of the owners, of the subject properties. An agent’s
application shall be authorized in writing by the owners.
B. Filing Fee – An application for a property line adjustment shall be
accompanied by a filing fee set by the Board of County Commissioners to
defray cost incidental to the review process.
C. Two copies of the site plan conforming to Section 41.060 and showing the
proposed property line relocation and the resulting lot or parcel sizes.
45.550 – FINALIZING THE PROPERTY LINE ADJUSTMENT
Applicants are required to do the following within two (2) years of approval of the
property line adjustment or the approval is null and void:
A. File with the County Surveyor a map of survey of the adjusted line prepared in
accordance with ORS 209.250 . The deed number for the properties shall be
noted on the map.
B. Provide the following for Planning Department review and approval:
• A legal description of the adjustment area(s) being conveyed or received.
• Draft deeds of each of the properties as adjusted.
C. Record the following deeds with the County Clerk and provide copies to the
Planning Department:
• A deed transferring the adjustment area from one property owner to the
other.
• A new deed for each property which describes it as adjusted.
D. In the case of consolidating 2 properties there will be just one deed needed.
ORD. 45.102 Adopt August 15, 2023 CLUP 2-23
 45.7 - 1
ARTICLE 45.7
SINGLE PARCEL UNIFICATION REPLAT

45.710 - PURPOSE

The act of unifying lots or parcels in a recorded subdivision or partition plat to
have one resultant parcel within the unification replat area.

The unification of all or a portion of a recorded subdivision or partition plat shall
not act to vacate any recorded covenants or restrictions.

45.720 - REVIEW PROCEDURE

A unification plat shall be processed according to a Type I administrative review
procedure.

45.730 - REVIEW CRITERIA

A unification replat may only be approved if it meets the requirements of ORS
92.185 and ORS 92.190(1) and all applicable standards and review criteria.
A. No unification replat will be approved unless all parcels or lots were created
by a single subdivision or partition plat;
B. A unification replat shall not result in the creation of a new parcel;
C. The unification replat will act to vacate the platted lots or parcels and public
easements within the replat area with conditions as stated in ORS 92.185.
45.740 – PROCESSING
Applications for a unification replat shall be processed as follows:
A. Initiation – An application for a unification replat shall be initiated by the
owners, or agent of the owners, of the subject properties. An agent’s
application shall be authorized in writing by the owner.
B. Filing – An application for a unification replat shall be filed on forms provided
by the Planning Department and shall set forth in detail all necessary
information. If the development does not have direct permitted access for the
intended use to an established public right-of-way, the application shall
provide documentation demonstrating proof of legal access. The
documentation must be complete, legible, presented in a graphic form and
orderly manner, and include source documents such as deeds or grants of
easements. Neither a preliminary title report nor a title policy shall be
considered proof of legal access.
ORD. 45.102 Adopt August 15, 2023 CLUP 2-23
 45.7 - 2
C. Filing Fees – An application for a unification replat shall be accompanied by
fees set by the Board of County Commissioners to defray the cost incidental
to the review process.
D. Incomplete Applications – Applications which are found to be incomplete or
inaccurate by the Planning Director or his/her designee shall be returned to
the applicant within 5 days of submittal along with a statement of specific
deficiencies to be corrected. The applicant shall have 30 days from the
postmark date of the notice in which to submit an amended application. If the
applicant fails to complete or correct the application within the time provided,
the application shall be deemed complete and transmitted to the appropriate
review body with a recommendation for denial.
45.750 – TENTATIVE UNIFICATION REPLAT REQUIREMENTS
A. Partition number assigned by the Planning Department.
B. One copy, 11 inches by 17 inches, and an electronic copy (PDF) of the
recorded subdivision plat or land partition identifying the unification replat
area.
C. Identify existing and proposed utilities and easements within the unification
replat area.
D. Identify any special districts (e.g. road district, fire district, etc.) for the
unification replat area.
45.760 – TENTATIVE UNIFICATION REPLAT PLAN REVIEW
A.  Referral of the Tentative Unification Replat for Comment – No later than 15
days prior to the scheduled review date, the Planning Director shall furnish 1
copy of the tentative unification replat plan and supplemental materials to
parties interested in or potentially affected by the proposed unification replat
for their review and comment.
B. Review – The appropriate review body shall review the tentative unification
replat plan and all supplemental materials required by this code, and render
a decision pursuant to procedures of Chapter 20.
C. Conditions – The review body may grant approval of the tentative unification
replat plan subject to such reasonable conditions based on the findings of
fact that it deems necessary to ensure compliance with state statutes, the
Klamath County Comprehensive Plan, and Land Development Code.

ORD. 45.102 Adopt August 15, 2023 CLUP 2-23
 45.7 - 3
45.770 – TIME EXTENSION
Prior to the expiration date of approval of the tentative unification replat plan, an
applicant may apply for a time extension.
A. Requests for time extension shall be filed on forms provided by the Planning
Department, and accompanied by the established fee.
B. Review of requests for time extension shall be reviewed according to the
Planning Director Review Procedure.
C. Review Criteria – In order to approve a request for time extension, the
Planning Director must find that:
1. The facts upon which the approval of the tentative unification replat
plan was based have not changed to an extent sufficient to warrant re-
submittal of the tentative unification replat plan;
2. No other development approvals would be adversely affected by the
time extension; and
3. The applicant is unable to file the final unification replat due to
circumstances beyond his or her control.
D. A maximum of 3 time extensions may be granted following the date of
approval of the tentative unification replat plan. The cumulative length of time
extensions shall not exceed 3 years.
E. If a request for time extension is denied and the time period for recording the
final plat expires, a new unification replat application must be filed.
45.780 – FINAL UNIFICATION REPLAT REQUIREMENTS
A. Submission of Final Unification Replat – An applicant for a unification replat
shall cause a final plat to be prepared and recorded with the County Clerk
within 1 year of the final decision on the tentative unification replat plan. The
applicant shall submit a final plat and all supplementary materials to the
Planning Director not less than 30 days prior to the deadline, and shall secure
all necessary approvals and signatures within 30 days of submitting the final
plat to the County. The final plat shall conform to the approved tentative
unification replat plan, Klamath County Comprehensive Plan and applicable
Klamath County Land Development Code and state statutes.
B. Original Drawing – The original drawing of a unification replat shall be made
in archive quality black ink on minimum 4 mil mylar, 18 inches by 24 inches in
size. No part of the plat shall come nearer than one inch from the edge of the
sheet. The plat shall be of such a scale as required by the County Surveyor.
ORD. 45.102 Adopt August 15, 2023 CLUP 2-23
 45.7 - 4
The lettering of the approvals, the surveyor’s certificate and signature, and all
other information shall be as required by the County Surveyor. The original
drawing shall be recorded in the County Clerk’s office.
C. Copy – One exact archival quality copy of the original plat on minimum 4 mil
mylar, 18 inches by 24 inches in size shall be submitted to the County
Surveyor along with the original plat.
D. Information Shown on the Final Plat
1. The partition number;
2. The name of the person for whom the unification replat was made;
3. Signature Blocks for the following:
a. Planning Director;
b. County Surveyor;
c. County Clerk;
d. Tax Collector;
e. A signed, notarized declaration and surveyor’s certificate that
meets the requirements of Oregon Revised Statutes Chapter
92.
4. All applicable requirements of ORS Chapter 92 and ORS Chapter 209;
and
5. Street names adjacent to the unification replat.
6. Geometry on the final unification replat shall match that shown on the
underlying plat.
E. Supplemental Information to be filed with the Final Plat:
1. A status of record title report, preliminary title report, or partition
guarantee issued by a title company in the name of the owner of the
land and prepared within 30 days prior to receipt by the County
Surveyor of the final plat showing all parties having any record title
interest in the premises and what interest they have.
45.790 – FINAL UNIFICATION REPLAT REVIEW
A. Approval of the County Planning Director – The Planning Director shall
thoroughly review the final plat and supplementary information upon its
submission within the required time frame. The final plat shall be signed by
ORD. 45.102 Adopt August 15, 2023 CLUP 2-23
 45.7 - 5
the Planning Director if it is in conformance with the tentative unification replat
plan and the requirements of this code.
B. Approval of the County Surveyor – The County Surveyor shall thoroughly
review the final plat and supplementary information to determine that the plat
complies with this code and all applicable state statutes. The final plat shall
be signed by the County Surveyor if it is correct and in full conformance with
this code and applicable state statutes.
C. Approval of Tax Collector – No final plat shall be recorded unless all ad
valorem taxes, including additional taxes, interest and penalties imposed on
land disqualified for any special assessment and all special assessments,
fees, or other charges required by law to be placed upon the tax roll have
been paid which have become a lien upon the land or which will become a
lien during the tax year. The County Tax Collector shall determine if these
taxes have been paid, and if taxes have been paid, shall sign the final plat.
D. Filing of Final Plat – After obtaining all required approvals and signatures, the
applicant shall record the plat with the County Clerk and file an exact copy
with the County Surveyor. The exact copy shall be made in conformance with
Section 45.100 and applicable state statutes.
E. Expiration – Approval of the final plat shall be null and void if the plat is not
recorded within 1 year of the final decision of the tentative unification replat
plan unless a time extension has been granted.

ORD 14 Revised October 8, 1969
ORD 45.27 Article 46 Adopt April 8, 1992
ORD 45.46 Article 46.050(D)(2)(e) Adopt July 29, 2002
ORD. 44.92 Adopt January 30, 2012
46 - 1
ARTICLE 46
LAND SUBDIVISION
46.010 - PURPOSE
The purpose of the land subdivision procedure is to ensure that the division of
land into lots for subsequent use and development is conducted in an orderly
manner and in compliance with this code and Oregon law.
46.020 - REVIEW PROCEDURE
A preliminary subdivision plat shall be reviewed according to the Planning
Commission Review Procedure (Article 26).
46.030 - REVIEW CRITERIA
A. A subdivision plat may only be approved if it meets all applicable standards
and review criteria.
B. A subdivision plat shall be reviewed against the following criteria:
1. The subdivision development complies with policies of the
Comprehensive Plan, including the policies and standards of the Urban
Area Transportation System Plan;
2. The subdivision plat is in conformance with all standards and criteria of
this code and applicable state statutes;
3. The site of the proposed subdivision is physically suitable for the type
and density of the proposed development;
4. The street pl an for the proposed subdivision will permit its development
in a safe and efficient manner in accordance with the Comprehensive
Plan and this code and transportation improvements, consistent with the
findings from a Traffic Impact Study pursuant to Section 71.200;
5. The street plan for the proposed subdivision will permit the development
of adjoining land in a safe and efficient manner for vehicles, pedestrians,
and bicyclists in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan and this code;
and
6. The existing and proposed infrastructure and public facilities and
services required by this code are adequate to serve the proposed
development.
ORD 14 Revised October 8, 1969
ORD 45.27 Article 46 Adopt April 8, 1992
ORD 45.46 Article 46.050(D)(2)(e) Adopt July 29, 2002
ORD. 44.92 Adopt January 30, 2012
46 - 2
46.040 - PROCESSING
Applications for a subdivision shall be processed as follows:
A. Initiation - An application for a subdivision shall be initiated by the owner, or
agent of the owner, of the property proposed as the site of the subdivision. An
agent's application shall be authorized in writing by the owner.
B. Filing - An application for a subdivision shall be filed on for ms provided by the
Planning Department, and shall set forth in detail all necessary information,
and shall be accompanied by a preliminary subdivision plat drawn to the
requirements of Section 46.050 and any other requirements of this code. If
the development does not have direct permitted access for the intended use
to an established public right -of-way, the applicant shall provide
documentation demonstrating proof of legal access. The documentation must
be complete, legible, presented in a graphic form an d orderly manner, and
include source documents such as deeds or grants of easements, neither a
preliminary title report nor a title policy shall be considered proof of legal
access.
C. Filing Fee -  An application for a subdivision shall be accompanied by a filing
fee set by the Board of County Commissioners to defray costs incidental to
the review process.
D. Incomplete Applications -  Applications which are found to be incomplete or
inaccurate by the Planning Director or his/her designee shall be returned to
the applicant within 5 days of submittal along with a statement of specific
deficiencies to be corrected. The applicant shall have 30 days from the
postmark date of the notice in which to submit an amended application. If the
applicant fails to complet e or correct the application within the time provided,
the application shall be deemed complete and transmitted to the appropriate
review body with a recommendation for denial.
E. Within 5 days of receiving an application, the Planning Director or his/her
designee shall check the National Wetlands Inventory maps, located in the
Planning Department, to determine if the site proposed for development may
have a wetland located on it. If it is determined that a wetland may be located
on a site proposed for development, the Planning Director or his/her designee
shall notify the Division of State Lands on a form provided. A copy of the letter
shall be sent to the applicant. A final decision on the application cannot be
rendered until the 30 day comment period, which begins on the day the
notification letter is sent, has expired.
ORD 14 Revised October 8, 1969
ORD 45.27 Article 46 Adopt April 8, 1992
ORD 45.46 Article 46.050(D)(2)(e) Adopt July 29, 2002
ORD. 44.92 Adopt January 30, 2012
46 - 3
F. Time Limitation - No request for a subdivision shall be considered by a review
body within a one-year period immediately following a previous denial of such
request.
46.050 – PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION PLAT REQUIREMENTS
A. Preparation and Submission -  The subdivider shall cause to be prepared a
preliminary plat, together with improvement plans and other supplementary
material as may be necessary to indicate the general subdivision plan and
objectives of the development.
B. Copies - 30 copies of the preliminary subdivision plat and other
supplementary materials shall be submitted to the Planning Department.
C. Drawing Requirements -  Preliminary subdivision plats shall be drawn to a
standard engineer's scale and show the following information:
1. A tract number obtained from the County Surveyor.
a. The County Surveyor shall maintain a permanent record of all tract
numbers.
b. When a number has been assigned by the County Surveyor for the
subdivision of a particular parcel or contiguous parcels of land, the
subdivider shall place the same number on the preliminary
subdivision plat.
c. In addition to the number, a name may be used. Such name shall
not be the same as, similar to, or pronoun ced the same as the
name of any other subdivision in Klamath County.
2. Date, north point, scale of drawing and a vicinity map sufficient to define
the location and boundaries of the proposed subdivision;
3. Location of the subdivision by section, township and range;
4. Names, addresses and phone numbers of all owners within the
subdivision, the subdivider, (if other than the owner) and the registered
surveyor;
ORD 14 Revised October 8, 1969
ORD 45.27 Article 46 Adopt April 8, 1992
ORD 45.46 Article 46.050(D)(2)(e) Adopt July 29, 2002
ORD. 44.92 Adopt January 30, 2012
ORD. 45.91 Article 46.050(D)(2) Adopted January 25, 2018
 46 - 4
5. Appropriate identification of the map as a preliminary subdivision plat.
D. Required Inf ormation - All preliminary subdivision plats shall show the
following information:
1. Existing Conditions:
a. The location, width, and names of all existing or platted streets,
ways or other public ways within or adjacent to the proposed
subdivision, easements, railroad rights -of-way, and other important
features, including but not limited to section lines and corners, city
and school district boundaries;
b. For subdivision within urban growth boundaries, contour lines shall
be shown at the following minimum intervals, and shall be related to
some established bench mark or other datum as approved by the
Director of Public Works:
1) 2 foot contour intervals for ground slopes between 0 percent
and 10 percent; or
2) 5 foot contour intervals for ground slopes exceeding 10
percent.
c. For subdivisions outside urban growth boundaries, contour lines
shall be shown at intervals necessary to properly indicate the
ground contour and to design the street pattern and lot layout, and
shall be related to some establi shed bench mark or other datum as
approved by the Director of Public Works;
d. The location and direction of all watercourses including a
delineation of the high water mark;
e. Natural features such as rock outcroppings, wetlands, wooded
areas, preservable trees; and
f. Existing uses of the property, including the location of all existing
structures to remain on the property after platting.
2. Proposed Development:
a. All streets showing the location, widths, names, approximate
grades, and approximate radii of curves and the relationship of all
streets to any projected streets . This shall include any walkways
and pedestrian connections as required by Article 71, Vehicular and
Non-Vehicular Access and Circulation;
ORD 14 Revised October 8, 1969
ORD 45.27 Article 46 Adopt April 8, 1992
ORD 45.46 Article 46.050(D)(2)(e) Adopt July 29, 2002
ORD. 44.92 Adopt January 30, 2012
ORD. 45.91 Article 46.050(D)(2) Adopted January 25, 2018
 46 - 5
b. The location and width of all existi ng and proposed easements,
including the purpose of such easement;
c. Lot layout showing approximate dimensions, minimum lot size, and
proposed lot numbers. A subdivision submitted for final approval
shall not use block numbers or letters; and
d. All lan d proposed to be reserved by the subdivider for public
purposes, showing the location, size and proposed uses.
e. For subdivision of rural residential lands, a fifty (50) -foot structural
setback shall be indicated from those residential property lines that
are contiguous to resource lands.
 f. Indicate any proposed phasing, in chronological order by phase
 number.
E. Accompanying Statement. A separate statement containing the following
information shall accompany the preliminary subdivision plat if the following
information cannot be shown practically on the preliminary subdivision plat:
1. Proposed uses of the property and present zoning;
2. Existing and/or proposed deed restrictions, if any;
3. A statement of the improvements proposed to be made or installed, the
time such improvements are proposed to be made or completed, and the
procedures the subdivider proposes to use;
4. A statement of what provisions are proposed for water supply, sewage
disposal and drainage; and
5. Identification of the irrig ation district involved and provisions for
delivering irrigation water to the lots in the subdivision.
F. Drainage Plan. A drainage plan, prepared in accordance with Article 73 shall
accompany all preliminary subdivision plats in the Klamath Falls Urban Area.
G. Evidence that the applicant has contacted the Environmental Health
Department regarding the provision of on- site sewage disposal and other
requirements, as applicable.
H. A Traffic Impact Study as may be required by Section 71.200.
ORD 14 Revised October 8, 1969
ORD 45.27 Article 46 Adopt April 8, 1992
ORD 45.46 Article 46.050(D)(2)(e) Adopt July 29, 2002
ORD. 44.92 Adopt January 30, 2012
 46 - 6
46.060 - PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION PLAT REVIEW
A. Review by the Planning Department -  Prior to a preliminary plat application
being accepted as complete by the Planning Department and a hearing being
scheduled before the appropriate review body, the applicant shall conduct a
Pre-application Conference with a representative of the Planning Department.
B. Referral of the Subdivision Plat for Comment -  No later than 15 days prior to
the scheduled review date, the Planning Director shall furnish 1 copy of the
preliminary subdivision plat and supplemental materials to parties interested
in or potentially affected by the proposed subdivision for their review and
comment.
C. Property Inspection -  All proposed subdivisions may be inspected by the
Planning Director, County Surveyor, the Public Works Director, Environmental
Health Director, or their authorized representatives prior to the scheduled
review date. Unusual conditions that would adversely affect the subject
property or adjacent property shall be noted for the record, a nd appropriate
conditions, plans, specifications, and/or improvements developed for
consideration of the Planning Commission.
D. Review by the Planning Commission - The Planning Commission shall review
the preliminary subdivision plat and all supplemental  materials of Section
46.050, and render a decision pursuant to procedures of Chapter 20.
E. Conditions - The Planning Commission may grant approval of a preliminary
subdivision plat subject to such reasonable conditions based on findings of
fact that it deems necessary to ensure compliance with the Klamath County
Comprehensive Plan or Land Development Code.
F. Survey of Lots -  Following the approval of a preliminary subdivision plat, the
applicant shall cause the lots proposed for creation to be accurately surveyed
and monumented in accordance with standards established in Oregon
Revised Statues Chapter 92.
G. Submission of Final Plat -  An applicant for a subdivision shall cause a final
plat to be prepared and recorded with the County Clerk within 2 year s of the
final decision on the preliminary subdivision plat. The applicant shall submit a
final plat and all supplementary materials to the Planning Director not less
than 60 days prior to the deadline, and shall secure all necessary approvals
and signatur es within 60 days of submitting the final plan to the County.
ORD 14 Revised October 8, 1969
ORD 45.27 Article 46 Adopt April 8, 1992
ORD 45.46 Article 46.050(D)(2)(e) Adopt July 29, 2002
ORD. 44.92 Adopt January 30, 2012
ORD. 45.91 Adopted January 25, 2018
 46 - 7
H. Re-submittal - If the time period for recording the final plat expires without an
approved time extension, the applicant shall submit a new subdivision
application.
46.070 - IMPROVEMENTS
A. The subdivider shall install all required improvements and repair existing
streets and other public facilities damaged in the development of the
subdivision prior to submitting the final plat to the County; or
B. The subdivider shall execute and file wit h the Director of Public Works an
agreement pursuant to Article 15 of this code which specifies that all required
improvements shall be completed within 2 years and providing that if such
work is not completed the County may complete the work and recover t he full
cost and expense from the subdivider.
C. The installation of all required roads and public facilities, and the repair of
roads and public facilities shall be done in accordance with the requirements
of the Director of Public Works and this code.
D. An improvement inspection fee shall accompany the submission of the final
plat for those developments requiring improvements or repairs.
46.080 – TIME EXTENSION
Prior to the expiration date of approval of the preliminary subdivision plat,  or any
phase thereof, an applicant may apply for a time extension.
A. Requests for time extension shall be filed on forms provided by the Planning
Department, and accompanied by the established fee.
B. Review of a request for time extension shall be reviewed according to the
Planning Director Review Procedure.
C. Review Criteria -  In order to approve a request for time extension, the
Planning Director must find that:
1. The facts upon which the approval of the preliminary subdivision plat
was based have not been changed to an extent sufficient to warrant re-
submittal of the preliminary subdivision plat;
ORD 14 Revised October 8, 1969
ORD 45.27 Article 46 Adopt April 8, 1992
ORD 45.46 Article 46.050(D)(2)(e) Adopt July 29, 2002
ORD. 44.92 Adopt January 30, 2012
ORD. 45.91 Adopted January 25, 2018
 46 - 8
2. No other development approvals would be adversely affected by the
time extension; and
3. The subdivider is unable to file the final plat due to circumstances
beyond his or her control.
D. The initial tentative plan approval shall be good for one year and a  maximum
of 3 one -year time extensions may be subsequently granted. If the final plat
for the initial phase is not recorded within four (4) years of the date of  the
tentative plan approval, the project will become null and void.
 For project phases after the initial phase is final platted, additional one- year
time extensions are allowed, but any remaining phases that are not final
platted within 10 years from the date of the initial tentative plan approval, will
become null and void.
E. If a request for time extension is denied and the time period for submitting the
final plat expires, a new subdivision application must be filed.
46.090 – FINAL PLAT REQUIREMENTS
A. Conformance to Preliminary Subdivision Plat -  The final plat must
substantially conform to the approved preliminary subdivision plat and
applicable state statutes. A final plat may show a decrease in number of lots
or an increase of not more than 10 percent of number of lots from that shown
on the preliminary subdivision plat.
B. Drawing Requirements - The original drawing of the final plat shall be made in
archive quality black ink on minimum 4 mil mylar, 18 inches by 24 inches in
size with an additional 3 inch binding edge on the left side. The subdivision
plat shall be of such scale as required by the County Surveyor. All information
shall be of such a size or type as will be clearly legible, but no part shall come
nearer any edge of the sheet than one inch. The original drawing shall be
recorded in the County Clerk's office.
C. Copies - One exact archival quality copy of the original plat on minimum 4 mil
mylar, 18 inches by 24 inches in size shall be submitted to the Planning
Director along with the original plat. The exact copy shall be filed with the
County Surveyor.
D. Information Shown on Plat -  The final plat shall be made to comply with ORS
Chapter 92 and include the following:
ORD 14 Revised October 8, 1969
ORD 45.27 Article 46 Adopt April 8, 1992
ORD 45.46 Article 46.050(D)(2)(e) Adopt July 29, 2002
ORD. 44.92 Adopt January 30, 2012
ORD. 45.91 Adopted January 25, 2018
 46 - 9
1. The new number assigned by the County Surveyor, and if applicable, the
name of the subdivision, date, scale, north point, legend and controlling
topography such as creeks, highways, and railroads;
2. Written legal description of the plat boundaries;  3. The location,
names and widths of all streets, existing or bei ng created. For streets on
a curve, curvature data shall be based on the centerline;
4. Land parcels to be dedicated for any purpose, public or private, with all
dimensions, boundaries, and courses clearly shown and defined in every
case to be distinguished from lands intended for sale;
5. The following certificates, declarations or affidavits, which may be
combined where appropriate, exact as to form and content to those
presented in Exhibits I through XIII of this article; and
a. A declaration signed and properly acknowledged by all parties having
any record title interest in the land to be subdivided, consenting to the
preparation and recordation of land shown on the final map plat in
accordance with Oregon Revised Statutes Chapter 92;
b. A certificate signed by the Registered Land Surveyor responsible for
the survey and preparation of the final plat. The signature of such
registered surveyor shall be accompanied by his seal;
c. A certificate signed by the Director of Public Works certifying that the
subdivider has installed improvements or executed a performance
agreement in accordance with Article 15.
d. A certificate signed by the County Assessor certifying that all ad
valorem taxes and all special assessments, fees and other charges
required by la w to be placed on the tax roll which became a lien
during the calendar year have been paid;
e. A certificate, on the copy of the final plat, signed by the County Clerk
and the Registered Surveyor certifying that the copy is a true and
exact copy of the final plat; and
f. A certification signed by the subdivider that central water supply and
sanitary sewer systems will not be provided and that the Department
of Environmental Quality has approved the proposed method or
alternative method of sewage disposal for the subdivision in its
evaluation report described in ORS 454.755(1)(b);
ORD 14 Revised October 8, 1969
ORD 45.27 Article 46 Adopt April 8, 1992
ORD 45.46 Article 46.050(D)(2)(e) Adopt July 29, 2002
ORD. 44.92 Adopt January 30, 2012
ORD. 45.91 Adopted January 25, 2018
 46 - 10
g. A certification by the authorized representative of the agency or
authority which will provide these services if water and sewer
services are to be provided.
6. Space for sig natures of the following: County Surveyor, County Tax
Collector, County Planning Director, County Assessor, County Clerk,
and the Board of County Commissioners.
E. Supplemental Information to be filed with Final Plat:
1. A preliminary title report or subdivision guarantee issued by a title
insurance company , prepared within 30 days prior to submittal of the
final plat, in the name of the owner of the land showing all parties having
any record title interest in the premises and what interest they have;
2. The computation sheets showing the bearings, distances, and error of
closure, if any, and the curve data of each lot in the subdivision, and of
the outside boundary;
3. If applicable, a good and sufficient bargain and sale deed, executed to
Klamath Count y, free from all restrictions, outstanding liens and
encumbrances, conveying property other than streets, alleys or
walkways for public use;
4. A copy of any existing or proposed deed restrictions applicable to the
subdivision; and
5. Plans, profiles and specifications, prepared by the engineer showing
proposed construction design and standards for all improvements. One
reproducible copy of plans, profiles and specifications, prepared by the
project's engineer to be submitted to and retained by the Direct or of
Public Works showing proposed construction design and standards for
all improvements. After approval by the Director of Public Works, any
changes in the design work shall be submitted to, and approved by, the
Director of Public Works before construct ion begins. Approval of the
completed improvements shall be made by the Director of Public Works
or his authorized representative before the improvements are accepted
and performance assurance released.
6. A completed and approved "Evaluation Report for M ethods of On -Site
Sewage Disposal for a Subdivision" described in ORS 454.755(1)(b);
from the Environmental Health Department, if applicable.
ORD 14 Revised October 8, 1969
ORD 45.27 Article 46 Adopt April 8, 1992
ORD 45.46 Article 46.050(D)(2)(e) Adopt July 29, 2002
ORD. 44.92 Adopt January 30, 2012
ORD. 45.91 Adopted January 25, 2018
 46 - 11
7. For subdivision of rural residential lands, a fifty (50) -foot structural
setback shall be indicated from those residential property lines that ar e
contiguous to resource lands.
46.100 – FINAL PLAT REVIEW
A. Approval of the County Planning Director -  The Planning Director shall
thoroughly review the final plat and supplementary information upon its
submission within the required time frame. The final plat shall be signed by
the Planning Director if it is in conformance with the preliminary subdivision
plat, requirements of this code, and any conditions of approval for the
preliminary subdivision plat set by the Planning Commission.
B. Approval of the County Assessor and County Tax Collector -  The County
Assessor shall review the subdivision proposal and shall sign the final plat if
all required assessments, fees, and charges have been made current. The
Tax Collector  shall sign the final plat if all required assessments, fees, and
charges have been paid.
C. Approval of the County Surveyor -  The County Surveyor shall thoroughly
review the final plat and supplemental information to determine that the plat
complies with  all applicable statutes and provisions, and that the plat is
technically correct and within the allowable limits of error prescribed by
statues. The final plat shall be signed by the County Surveyor if the final plat
is correct and in full conformance wit h this code and State Law. The statutory
fee for approval shall be submitted to the County Surveyor before certification
of the final plat is made.
D. Approval of the Director of Public Works -  The Director of Public Works shall
review and sign the final plat if all of the requirements of Section 46.070 and
46.090(E)(5) have been met.
E. Approval of the Board of County Commissioners - After review of the final plat
by the Planning Director, County Assessor, County Tax Collector, County
Surveyor, and Publi c Works Director, the final plat shall be submitted to the
Board of County Commissioners. The Board of County Commissioners shall
sign the plat and accept it for recordation if the final plat meets all
requirements of this code and state statutes.
F. Filing of Final Plat -  After obtaining all required approvals and signatures, the
applicant shall record the original plat with the County Clerk and file an exact
ORD 14 Revised October 8, 1969
ORD 45.27 Article 46 Adopt April 8, 1992
ORD 45.46 Article 46.050(D)(2)(e) Adopt July 29, 2002
ORD. 44.92 Adopt January 30, 2012
ORD. 45.91 Adopted January 25, 2018
 46 - 12
copy with the County Surveyor. Approval of the final plat shall be null and void
if the plat is n ot recorded within the time frames contained in Section
46.080(D). The applicant shall furnish 1 print of the final plat to the County
Assessor, the Director of Public Works, and the County Planning Director.
G. Filing Reports with the State -  The subdivi der shall file appropriate reports
with the State Real Estate Commissioner, in accordance with Oregon
Revised Statutes, Chapter 92.
46.110 – STANDARDS FOR THE CO NVERSION OF EXISTING
MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME PARKS (MHP) TO
MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME PARK SUBDIVISIONS (MHPS)
A. Manufactured/Mobile Home Parks to be converted to a subdivision must have
been approved prior to July 2, 2001 and continue to exist, & either be in
compliance with the Land Development Code or an approved nonconforming
use. For all proposed conversions the following standards shall be met:
1. The proposed plan does not increase the number of lots, as defined in
ORS 446.003, approved for the park, change the boundary lines or
make other development changes.
2. Manufactured/Mobile Home Park Subdivisions shall be no less than one
acre in size.
3. The average lot size for Manufactured/Mobile Home Park Subdivisions
shall be a minimum of 3200 square feet in size.
4. A maximum of ten lots shall be allowed per acre.
5. The average lot width and depth shall be as least 40 feet and 80 feet
respectively.
6. All setbacks within the Manufactured/Mobile Home Park Subdivision
shall be 5 feet on all sides for each lot.
7. There shall be no less than 10 ft between manufactured dwellings on
separate lots within the Manufactured/Mobile Home Park Subdivision.
8. No building or structure shall exceed twenty -five feet in height within the
Manufactured/Mobile Home Park Subdivision.
ORD 14 Revised October 8, 1969
ORD 45.27 Article 46 Adopt April 8, 1992
ORD 45.46 Article 46.050(D)(2)(e) Adopt July 29, 2002
ORD. 44.92 Adopt January 30, 2012
ORD. 45.91 Adopted January 25, 2018
 46 - 13
9. Sight obscuring screening shall be required for all exterior boundaries of
the Manufactured/Mobile Home Park Subdivision as provided in Section
64.060.
10. Areas of ingress/egress for the Manufactured/Mobile Home Park
Subdivision shall maintain appropriate vision clearance pursuant to
Section 62.060.
11. Vehicular access s hall be onto a dedicated street or highway and be
subject to the approval of the Klamath County Public Works Director or
the State Highway Division.
12. Street width shall be at least 20 feet or 30 feet if on- street parking is
permitted.
13. All streets within a Manufactured/Mobile Home Park Subdivision shall
remain private streets.
14. For each dwelling within the Manufactured/Mobile Home Park
Subdivision there shall be at least two parking spaces provided, on each
lot and/or on the street.
15. Play areas and common areas (i.e. places available for all occupants of
the Manufactured/Mobile Home Park to use) that are in existence at the
time the subdivision conversion occurs shall remain and not be
converted to a new use.
16. A Homeowners Association shall maintain all private streets, utilities,
common areas and play areas within a Manufactured/Mobile Home Park
Subdivision.
17. Proof of signed Homeowners Association Declarations will be provided
to the Planning Department prior to submitting the Final Platt.
18. Signs may be permitted pursuant to Article 66.
19. Landscaping is required for Manufactured/Mobile Home Park
Subdivisions pursuant to Article 65.
20. Criteria found in Article 46.050 to 46.060 and 46.080 to 46.100 regarding
land subdivisions s hall apply to Manufactured/Mobile Home Park
Subdivisions.

ORD 14 Revised October 8, 1969
ORD 45.27 Article 46 Adopt April 8, 1992
ORD 45.46 Article 46.050(D)(2)(e) Adopt July 29, 2002
ORD. 44.92 Adopt January 30, 2012
ORD. 45.91 Adopted January 25, 2018
 46 - 14
B. Once a Manufactured/Mobile Home Park is successfully converted into a
subdivision, the Manufactured/Mobile Home Park will not adopt standard
zoning but shall conform to the applicable criteria described in Part A and D of
this Section, and any additional criteria determined by the Homeowners
Association.
C. Any future expansion of an existing Manufactured/Mobile Home Park
Subdivision beyond its original boundary will be treated as a land subdiv ision
and is subject to Article 46 and the zoning provisions of Chapter 50.
D. New or replaced dwellings within a MHPS may be of any type given that the
following standards are met:
1. If the lot size is less than 5,000 square feet the setbacks shall conform to
Section 46.110(A)(6) of this Article.
2. If the lot size is 5,000 square feet or greater, the setbacks of RM zoning
pursuant to Article 62 shall apply.
3. A manufactured home placed in a MHPS shall conform to the standards
set forth in Article 84 except as explained in 46.110(D)(4). Note: a MHPS
is no longer considered a designated Manufactured/Mobile Home Park.
4. A garage or carport required for dwellings within the UGB pursuant to
Article 11 (Single Family Dwelling) and 84.010(A)(7), is not necessary if
the lot size is less than 5,000 square feet.
ORD 14 Revised October 8, 1969
ORD 45.27 Article 46 Adopt April 8, 1992
ORD 45.46 Article 46.050(D)(2)(e) Adopt July 29, 2002
ORD. 44.92 Adopt January 30, 2012
 46 - 15
EXHIBIT I (Surveyor’s Certificate)
SURVEYOR’S CERTIFICATE
STATE OF OREGON )
) ss.
COUNTY OF KLAMATH )
I,  , Surveyor, hereby certify that I have correctly surveyed,
subdivided and platted (Number and Name of Subdivision)

situated in Section, Township, Range:    , more particularly described
as follows:
(Specific Legal Description)
and that I made such survey and plat by order of and under the direction of the owners
thereof; that the  size of all lots and the widths of all streets are as shown on the
subdivision plat; and that all lot corners, boundary corners and the initial point are
marked with proper monuments as provided in ORS 92.060.
______________________________
Surveyor
______________________________
Date
ORD 14 Revised October 8, 1969
ORD 45.27 Article 46 Adopt April 8, 1992
ORD 45.46 Article 46.050(D)(2)(e) Adopt July 29, 2002
ORD. 44.92 Adopt January 30, 2012
 46 - 16
EXHIBIT II (Owner’s Declaration)
DECLARATION
STATE OF OREGON )
) ss.
COUNTY OF KLAMATH )
We,  , husband and wife, being duly sworn,
depose and say that we are the owners of (Number and Name of Subdivision), more
particularly described in the Surveyor's Certificate, that we did cause the same to be
surveyed and platted as shown on the subdivision plat and we do for ourselves, our
heirs and assigns, hereby dedicate, donate and convey to the public use forever, all
streets, alleys and ways on said plat being subject to:
(List all building setbacks, special restrictions,
utility easements, irrigation easements, street
reservations, street plugs, covenants, etc.)
_______________________________
_______________________________
STATE OF OREGON )
) ss.
COUNTY OF KLAMATH )
Be it remembered that on this _____ day of ___________, 20____, personally
appeared before me _____________________, husband and wife, who are known to
me to be the identical persons described in and who executed the above instrument, and
who acknowledged to me that they executed the same freely and voluntarily.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my official notary
seal this   day of  , 20  .
_______________________________
NOTARY PUBLIC FOR OREGON
_______________________________
My Commission Expires
ORD 14 Revised October 8, 1969
ORD 45.27 Article 46 Adopt April 8, 1992
ORD 45.46 Article 46.050(D)(2)(e) Adopt July 29, 2002
ORD. 44.92 Adopt January 30, 2012
 46 - 17
EXHIBIT III (Corporate Owner’s Declaration)
DECLARATION
STATE OF OREGON )
) ss.
COUNTY OF KLAMATH )
This is to certify that (Name of Corporation) is a corporation duly organized and
existing under and by virtue of the laws of the State of Oregon, and is the owner of the
land described in the Surveyor's Certificate, said lands to be hereafter known as
(Number and Name of Subdivision); and said (Name of Corporation) did cause the same
to be surveyed and platted as shown on the subdivision plat and does for itself, its
transferees, successors, and assigns hereby dedicate, donate, and convey to the public
use forever, all streets, alleys and ways on said plat being subject to:
(List all buil ding setbacks, special restrictions,
utility easements, irrigation easements, street
reservations, street plugs, covenants, etc.)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, (Name of Corporation) pursuant to a resolution of its
Board of Directors, duly and legally adopted, has c aused these presents to be
signed by its (Name of Officers) and its corporate seal affixed hereto.
_______________________________
_______________________________
STATE OF OREGON )
) ss.
COUNTY OF KLAMATH )
Be it remembered that on this    day of   , 20 , personally
appeared before me (Corporate Officers) and known to me to be the identical person(s)
described in and who executed the above instrument, and who acknowledged to me that
they executed the same freely and voluntarily as such officers on behal f of said
corporation by authority of its Board of Directors.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed by official notary
seal this   day of    , 20 .
_______________________________
NOTARY PUBLIC FOR OREGON
My Commission Expires:
ORD 14 Revised October 8, 1969
ORD 45.27 Article 46 Adopt April 8, 1992
ORD 45.46 Article 46.050(D)(2)(e) Adopt July 29, 2002
ORD. 44.92 Adopt January 30, 2012
 46 - 18
EXHIBIT IV (Approvals)
Examined and recommended for approval by the Klamath County Board of
Commissioners this   day of   , 20 .
_______________________________
Planning Director
Examined and recommended for approval by the Klamath County Board of
Commissioners this   day of   , 20 .
_______________________________
County Surveyor
Approved by the Klamath County Board of Commissioners
this    day of   , 20 .
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
_______________________________
Chairman of the Board
_______________________________
County Commissioner
_______________________________
County Commissioner

ORD 14 Revised October 8, 1969
ORD 45.27 Article 46 Adopt April 8, 1992
ORD 45.46 Article 46.050(D)(2)(e) Adopt July 29, 2002
ORD. 44.92 Adopt January 30, 2012
 46 - 19
EXHIBIT V (Bonding Agreement)
An agreement and assurance of performance for the installation of (Type of
Improvement) has been executed with the Director of Public Works this
day of     20  .
_______________________________
Director of Public Works
Or, if all improvements are installed prior to be submission of the final plat,
then the following statement shall appear:
All improvements have been examined and approved by the Klamath County
Director of Public Works this    day of     20  ..
_______________________________
Director of Public Works

ORD 14 Revised October 8, 1969
ORD 45.27 Article 46 Adopt April 8, 1992
ORD 45.46 Article 46.050(D)(2)(e) Adopt July 29, 2002
ORD. 44.92 Adopt January 30, 2012
 46 - 20
EXHIBIT VI (County Assessor's Certificate)
I hereby certify that pursuant to ORS 92.095, all ad valorem taxes and all
special assessments, fees and other charges required by law to be placed on the
(year) tax roll which became a lien on this subdivision or will become a lien
during this calendar year but not yet certified to the tax collector for collection,
have been paid to me.
County Assessor   By
 Deputy

Date

EXHIBIT VII (County Tax Collector Certificate)
I hereby certify that all ad valorem taxes and all special assessments, fees
and other charges required by law to be placed upon the tax roll which have
become a lien on this subdivision and that are now due and payable have been
paid.
County Tax Collector   By
 Deputy

Date
ORD 14 Revised October 8, 1969
ORD 45.27 Article 46 Adopt April 8, 1992
ORD 45.46 Article 46.050(D)(2)(e) Adopt July 29, 2002
ORD. 44.92 Adopt January 30, 2012
 46 - 21
EXHIBIT VIII (Filing Statement)
Filed for record this    day of    , 20 .
County Clerk   By
 Deputy

EXHIBIT IX (Certification of the Copy)
I do hereby certify that this is a true and exact copy of the original plat (Name
of Subdivision) as filed with this office.
County Clerk   By
 Deputy
I do hereby certify that this is a true and exact copy of the original plat
  surveyed, subdivided and platted.
Registered Land Surveyor
(signature)
ORD 14 Revised October 8, 1969
ORD 45.27 Article 46 Adopt April 8, 1992
ORD 45.46 Article 46.050(D)(2)(e) Adopt July 29, 2002
ORD. 44.92 Adopt January 30, 2012
 46 - 22
EXHIBIT X (Sewage Disposal System Certificate)
SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM CERTIFICATE
I,   (name of subdivider) , hereby certify that no sewage disposal
facility will be provided to the purchaser of any lot depicted on the plat.

Signature of Subdivider

Date

EXHIBIT XI (Sewage Disposal System Certificate)
SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM CERTIFICATE
I,  (city-owned sewage disposal system or by the owner of a privately-
owned sewage disposal system that is subject to regulation by the Oregon
Public Utility Commission)   hereby certify that a sewage disposal
system will be available to the lot line of each and every lot depicted on the plat.

Signature

Title

Date
ORD 14 Revised October 8, 1969
ORD 45.27 Article 46 Adopt April 8, 1992
ORD 45.46 Article 46.050(D)(2)(e) Adopt July 29, 2002
ORD. 44.92 Adopt January 30, 2012
 46 - 23
EXHIBIT XII (Water Supply Certificate)
WATER SUPPLY CERTIFICATE
I,  (name of subdivider)  , hereby certify that no domestic water supply
facility will be provided to the purchaser of any lot depicted on the plat.

Signature of Subdivider

Date

EXHIBIT XIII (Water Supply Certificate)
WATER SUPPLY CERTIFICATE
I,  (city-owned domestic water supply system or the owner of a
privately-owned domestic water supply system, subject to regulation by
the Oregon Public Utility Commission)  , certify that wa ter will be
available to the lot line of each and every lot depicted on the plat.

Signature

Title

Date
ORD. 44.92 Adopt January 30, 2012
 47 - 1
ARTICLE 47
CHANGE OF ZONE DESIGNATION (QUASI-JUDICIAL)
47.010 - PURPOSE
The purpose of the quasi -judicial change of zone designation is to provide for
revisions to the land use zone designation in response to individual landowner
requests and a demonstrated need.
47.020 - REVIEW PROCEDURE
An application for a change of zone designation shall be reviewed according to
the Hearings Officer Review Procedure (Article 24).
47.030 - REVIEW CRITERIA
A. A request for a change of zone designation may only be approved if it meets
all applicable review criteria.
B. A request for a change of zone designation shall be reviewed against the
following criteria:
1. The proposed change of zone designation is in conformance with the
Comprehensive Plan and does not afford special privileges to an
individual property owner not available to the general public or outside
the overall public interest for the change;
2. The property affected by the change of zone designation is adequate in
size and shape to facilitate any uses allowed in conjunction with such
zoning;
3. The property affected by the proposed change of zone designation is
properly related to streets and roads and to other public facilities and
infrastructure to adequately serve the types of uses allowed in
conjunction with such zoning  and the proposed change is in compliance
with the Transportation Planning Rule (TPR) OAR 660- 012-0060 (to
demonstrate complianc e with the TPR the applicant shall submit a
Traffic Impact Study pursuant to Section 71.200);
4. The proposed change of zone designation will have no significant
adverse effect on the appropriate use and development of adjacent
properties; and
ORD. 44.92 Adopt January 30, 2012
 47 - 2
5. The proposed change is supported by specific studies or other factual
information, which documents the need for the change.
47.040 - PROCESSING
Applications for a change of zone designation shall be processed as follows:
A. Initiation - An application for a change of zone designation may be initiated by
the owner, or agent of the owner, of the property proposed for the zone
change. An agent's application shall be authorized in writing by the owner.
B. Filing - An application for a change of zone designation shall be filed on forms
provided by the Planning Department, shall set  forth in detail all necessary
information, and shall be accompanied by a site plan drawn to the
requirements of Section 41.060 and any other requirements of this code. If
the development does not have direct permitted access for the intended use
to an est ablished public right -of-way, the applicant shall provide
documentation demonstrating proof of legal access. The documentation must
be complete, legible, presented in a graphic form and orderly manner, and
include source documents such as deeds or grants o f easements, neither a
preliminary title report nor a title policy shall be considered proof of legal
access.
C. Pre-application Conference - An application for a change of zone designation
shall be subject to the pre-application procedures (Article 21).
D. Filing Fee -  An application for a change of zone designation shall be
accompanied by a filing fee set by the Board of County Commissioners to
defray costs incidental to the review process.
E. Incomplete Applications -  Applications which are found to be incomplete or
inaccurate by the Planning Director or his/her designee shall be returned to
the applicant within 5 business days of submittal along with a statement of
specific deficiencies to be corrected. The applicant shall have 30 days from
the postmark date of the notice in which to submit an amended application. If
the applicant fails to complete or correct the application within the time
provided, the application shall be deemed complete and transmitted to the
appropriate review body with a recommendation for denial.
F. Within 5 business days of receiving an application, the Planning Director or
his/her designee shall check the National Wetlands Inventory maps, located
in the Planning Department, to determine if the site proposed for development
may have a wetland located on it. If it is determined that a wetland may be
located on a site proposed for development, the Planning Director or his/her
designee shall notify the Division of State Lands on a form provided. A copy
of the letter shall be sent t o the applicant. A final decision on the application
ORD. 44.92 Adopt January 30, 2012
 47 - 3
cannot be rendered until the 30- day comment period, which begins on the
day the notification letter is sent, has expired.
G. Time Limitation -  No request for a change of zone designation shall be
considered by a review body within a one- year period immediately following a
previous denial of such request.
ORD. 44.92 Adopt January 30, 2012
 48 - 1
ARTICLE 48
CHANGE OF COMPREHENSIVE PLAN DESIGNATION
(QUASI-JUDICIAL)
48.010 - PURPOSE
The purpose of the quasi -judicial change of Comprehensive Plan designation
and the corresponding implementing zone designation is to provide for revisions
to the Comp rehensive Plan map in response to individual land owner requests
and changing public needs for the allocation and development of land in the
County.
48.020 - REVIEW PROCEDURE
An application for a change of Comprehensive Plan designation may be
reviewed j ointly according to the Planning Commission Review Procedure
(Article 26) and the Board of County Commissioners Review Procedure (Article
28).
48.030 - REVIEW CRITERIA
A. A request for a change of Comprehensive Plan designation may only be
approved if it meets all applicable review criteria;
B. A request for a change of Comprehensive Plan designation shall be reviewed
against the following criteria:
1. The proposed change is supported by specific studies or other factual
information, which documents the public need for the change;
2. The proposed change complies with policies of the Comprehensive Plan
and policies and standards of the Urban Area Transportation System
Plan; and
3. The proposed change complies with the Oregon State wide Planning
Goals and Administrative Rules , including compliance with the TPR
(OAR 660- 012-0060). To document compliance with the TPR the
applicant shall submit a Traffic Impact Study pursuant to Section 71.200.
Exceptions to the Statewide Planning Goals, shal l be based upon
Statewide Planning Goal 2, Part II (Exceptions) as interpreted by Oregon
Administrative Rules (OAR Chapter 660, Division 4).
ORD. 44.92 Adopt January 30, 2012
 48 - 2
48.040 - PROCESSING
Applications for a change of Comprehensive Plan designation shall be processed
as follows:
A. Initiation - An application for a change of Comprehensive Plan Designation
shall be initiated by the owner, or agent of the owner, of the property
proposed as the site of the Comprehensive Plan change. An agent's
application shall be authorized in writing by the owner.
B. Filing - An application for a change of Comprehensive Plan designation shall
be filed on forms provided by the Planning Department, shall set forth in detail
all necessary information, and shall be accompanied by a site plan drawn to
the requirements of Section 41.060 and any other requirements of this code.
C. Pre-application Conference -  An application for a change of Comprehensive
Plan designation shall be subject to the provisions of a pre- application
conference (Article 21).
D. Filing Fee -  An application for a change of Comprehensive Plan designation
shall be accompanied by a filing fee set by the Board of County
Commissioners to defray costs incidental to the review process.
E. Incomplete Applications -  Applications that are fou nd to be incomplete or
inaccurate by the Planning Director or his/her designee shall be returned to
the applicant within 5 days of submittal along with a statement of specific
deficiencies to be corrected. The applicant shall have 30 days from the
postmark date of the notice in which to submit an amended application. If the
applicant fails to complete or correct the application within the time provided,
the applicant shall be deemed complete and transmitted to the appropriate
review body with a recommendation for denial.
F. Within 5 days of receiving an application, the Planning Director or his/her
designee shall check the National Wetlands Inventory maps, located in the
Planning Department, to determine if the site proposed for development may
have a wetland located on it. If it is determined that a wetland may be located
on a site proposed for development, the Planning Director or his/her designee
shall notify the Division of State Lands on a form provided. A copy of the letter
shall be sent to the applicant. A final decision on the application cannot be
rendered until the 30 -day comment period, which begins on the day the
notification letter is sent, has expired.
G. Time Limitation - No request for a change of Comprehensive Plan designation
shall be consi dered by a review body within a one- year period immediately
following a previous denial of such request.
ORD. 44.92 Adopt January 30, 2012
 49 - 1
ARTICLE 49
LEGISLATIVE AMENDMENT TO THE KLAMATH COUNTY
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN, LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE, OR
ZONING MAP
49.010 - PURPOSE
The purpose of amendments to the Klamath County Comprehensive Plan or
Land Development Code is to provide for changes based  on periodic
assessments of development patterns and land use allocations or public need,
and in order to carry out the Oregon Statewide Planning Goals or state statutes.
Amendments to the Comprehensive Plan shall be based on new information and
an overall public need for the change, and shall be made as the result of periodic
studies or reviews. Amendments to the Land Development Code shall be made
in response to amendments to the Comprehensive Plan, or to provide for the
continued efficient administration of this code.
49.020 - REVIEW PROCEDURE
Amendments to the Comprehensive Plan or Land Development Code shall be
made according to the Planning Commission Review Procedure (Article 26) and
the Board of County Commissioners Review Procedures (Article 28). Public
hearings may be scheduled jointly or separately at the discretion of the Board of
County Commissioners.
49.030 - REVIEW CRITERIA
A. An amendment to the Comprehensive Plan or Land Development Code may
only be approved if it meets all applicable review criteria.
B. An amendment to the Comprehensive Plan or Land Development Code shall
be reviewed against the following criteria:
1. The proposed amendment is supported by specific studies or other
factual information, which documents the public need for the change;
2. The proposed amendment complies with policies of the Comprehensive
Plan and policies and standards of the Urban Area Transportation
System Plan; and
3. The proposed amendment complies with the Oregon Statewide Planning
Goals, state statutes, and administrative rules, including compliance with
the TPR (OAR 660- 012-0060). To document compliance with the TPR
ORD. 44.92 Adopt January 30, 2012
 49 - 2
the applic ant shall submit a Traffic Impact Study pursuant to Section
71.200.
49.040 - PROCESSING
Applications for amendments to the Comprehensive Plan or Land Development
Code shall be processed as follows:
A. Initiation by the Planning Director -  The Planning Director may initiate
proceedings to amend the Comprehensive Plan or Land Development Code
by informing the Planning Commission Chair person and the Board of County
Commissioners Chairperson of the proposal, and acting to schedule a public
hearing pursuant to Chapter 30.
B. Initiation by the Planning Commission -  The Planning Commission may direct
the Planning Director to prepare amendm ents to the Comprehensive Plan or
Land Development Code for its consideration, and to schedule a public
hearing pursuant to Chapter 30.
C. Initiation by the Board of County Commissioners -  The Board of County
Commissioners may direct the Planning Director  to prepare amendments to
the Comprehensive Plan or Land Development Code for the consideration of
the Planning Commission and Board of County Commissioners, and to
schedule a public hearing pursuant to Chapter 30.
D. Initiation by a citizen -  A citizen m ay initiate an amendment to the Klamath
County Comprehensive Plan and the Land Development Code for the
consideration of the Planning Commission and the Board of Commissioners.
A public hearing will be scheduled pursuant to Chapter 30. A fee shall be
charged for such an application
E. Amendments to the Urban Growth Boundary or Urban Growth Boundary
Management Agreement -  Amendments may be initiated by the County, the
affected city or by a county or city resident or property owner in accordance
with the provisions of the respective County -City Urban Growth Boundary
Management Agreement.