May 2026 16-92 LC 16.211
IMPACTED FOREST LANDS ZONE (F-2, RCP)
RURAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN

F-2 Zone Table of Contents
(1) Purpose 92
(2) Use Table 92
(3) Use Standards 100
(4) Conditional Use Review Criteria 112
(5) Siting Standards for Uses, Activities, and Structures in Forest Zones 112
(6) Fire-Siting Standards for Dwellings and Structures 115
(7) Land Divisions 119
(8) Telecommunication Facilities.  124

16.211 Impacted Forest Lands (F-2, RCP)
(1) Purpose
The purpose of the Impacted Forest Land (F-2) Zone is to protect and maintain forest lands for
grazing, and rangeland use and forest use, consistent with existing and future needs for
agricultural and forest products. The F-2 zone is also intended to allow other uses that are
compatible with agricultural and forest activities, to protect scenic resources and fish and wildlife
habitat, and to maintain and improve the quality of air, water, and land resources of the county.
The F-2 zone has been applied to lands designated as Forest in the Comprehensive Plan. The
provisions of the F-2 zone reflect the forest land policies of the Comprehensive Plan as well as
the requirements of ORS Chapter 215 and OAR 660-006. The minimum parcel size and other
standards established by this zone are intended to promote commercial forest operations.
(2) Use Table
Table of Permitted Uses
Table 16.211-1 sets forth the uses allowed in the F-2 zone subject to Type I, II, or III approval
processes. This table applies to all new uses, expansions of existing uses, and changes of use
when the expanded or changed use would require a Type I, II, or, III process, unless otherwise
specified on Table 16.211-1. All uses and their accessory buildings are subject to the general
provisions, special conditions, additional restrictions, siting standards, fire siting standards, and
exceptions set forth in LC 16.211.
May 2026 16-93 LC 16.211
As used in Table 16.211-1:
(a) Use Type:
“A” means the use is allowed outright or permitted subject to standards.
“C” means the use is a Conditional Use, subject to Section (4) and other
listed criteria.
(b) Local Procedure Type:
“P” means the use is permitted outright; uses and activities and their
accessory buildings and uses are permitted subject to the general
provisions set forth by this Chapter.
“AL” means Assembly License, subject to LC 3.995.
Type I uses and activities are permitted subject to the general provisions
and exceptions set forth by this chapter of Lane Code.
Type II uses may be allowed provided a land use application is submitted
and approved by the Director pursuant to LC Chapter 14.
Type III uses may be allowed provided a land use application is submitted
and approved by the Hearings Official pursuant to LC Chapter 14.
(c) The “Subject To” column identifies any specific provisions of LC 16.211 to which
the use is subject. All uses and development are subject to the development
standards provisions of LC 16.211(5)(b) and (6)(c). Residences, dwellings, and
structures must comply with LC 16.211(5) and (6). Any new structure subject to
LC 16.211(5)(a) is subject to a Type II procedure pursuant to LC Chapter 14.
 (d) A determination by the Director for whether or not a use fits within the
classification of uses listed as Type I, Permitted Outright, or Assembly License in
the use table may constitute a “permit” as defined by ORS 215.402(4),
“…discretionary approval of a proposed development of land…”  an owner of
land where the use would occur therefore may request to elevate review of a
Type I, Permitted Outright, or Assembly License use to a Type II land use
application pursuant to LC Chapter 14.  The burden of proof in the application will
be upon the owner of land to demonstrate that the proposed use fits within the
classification.
Table 16.211-1: Use Table for Impacted Forest Zones
I = Type I   II = Type II    III = Type III   P = Permitted Outright    AL = Assembly License

Use Use
Type
Local
Procedure
Type
Subject
to
1. Forest, Farm and Natural Resource Uses
May 2026 16-94 LC 16.211
Table 16.211-1: Use Table for Impacted Forest Zones
I = Type I   II = Type II    III = Type III   P = Permitted Outright    AL = Assembly License

Use Use
Type
Local
Procedure
Type
Subject
to
1.1. Forest operations or forest practices including, but not limited
to, reforestation of forest land, road construction and
maintenance, harvesting of a forest tree species, application of
chemicals and disposal of slash
A P
1.2. Temporary on-site structures which are auxiliary to and used
during the term of a particular forest operation
A I  (5)(b),
(6)(c)
1.3. Physical alterations to the land auxiliary to forest practices
including, but not limited to, those made for purposes of
exploration, mining, commercial gravel extraction and
processing, landfills, dams, reservoirs, road construction or
recreational facilities
A P
1.4. Uses to conserve soil, air and water quality and to provide for
wildlife and fisheries resources
A P
1.5. Farm use as defined in LC 16.090. A P
1.6. Uninhabitable structures accessory to fish and wildlife
enhancement
A I (5)(b),
(6)(c)
1.7. Agricultural building A I (5)(b),
(6)(c)
1.8. Log scaling and weigh stations C II (4), (5),
(6)
1.9. Forest management research and experimentation facilities as
defined by ORS 526.215 or where accessory to forest
operations
C II (4), (5),
(6)
1.10. Marijuana production A I LC
16.420,
(5)(b),
(6)(c)
1.11. Marijuana wholesale distribution A I LC
16.420,
(5)(b),
(6)(c)
1.12. Marijuana research A I LC
16.420,
(5)(b),
(6)(c)
2. Residential Uses
May 2026 16-95 LC 16.211
Table 16.211-1: Use Table for Impacted Forest Zones
I = Type I   II = Type II    III = Type III   P = Permitted Outright    AL = Assembly License

Use Use
Type
Local
Procedure
Type
Subject
to
2.1. Caretaker residences for public parks and public fish
hatcheries
A II (3)(p),
(5), (6)
2.2. Large tract forest dwelling A II (3)(a),
(3)(p),
(3)(q),
(5), (6)
2.3. Lot of record dwelling A II (3)(b),
(3)(p),
(3)(q) ,
(5), (6)
2.4. Template dwelling A II (3)(c),
(3)(p),
(3)(q) ,
(5), (6)
2.5. Alteration, restoration, or replacement of a lawfully established
dwelling
A I or II (3)(d),
(3)(p),
(3)(r) ,
(5), (6)
2.6. Temporary hardship dwelling C II (3)(e),
(3)(p),
(4), (5),
(6)
3. Commercial Uses
3.1. Temporary portable facility for the primary processing of forest
products
A I (5)(b),
(6)(c)
3.2. Temporary forest labor camps A I (5)(b),
(6)(c)
3.3. Private hunting and fishing operations without any lodging
accommodations
A P or II (5), (6)
3.4. Parking of up to seven dump trucks and trailers C II (4)
3.5. In-home commercial activity (Minor Home Occupation) A I (3)(g)
3.6. Home occupations C II (3)(e), (4)
3.7. Permanent facility for the primary processing of forest products C II (3)(k),
(4), (5),
(6)
May 2026 16-96 LC 16.211
Table 16.211-1: Use Table for Impacted Forest Zones
I = Type I   II = Type II    III = Type III   P = Permitted Outright    AL = Assembly License

Use Use
Type
Local
Procedure
Type
Subject
to
3.8. Permanent logging equipment repair and storage C II (4), (5),
(6)
3.9. Private seasonal accommodations for fee hunting operations C II (3)(g),
(4), (5),
(6)
3.10. Private accommodations for fishing occupied on a temporary
basis
C II (3)(h),
(4), (5),
(6)
3.11. Marijuana processing, provided an on-site dwelling is present C II LC
16.420,
(4)
4. Mineral, Aggregate, Oil and Gas Uses
4.1. Exploration for aggregate resources as defined in ORS
chapter 517
A P
4.2. Exploration for and production of geothermal, gas, oil and
other associated hydrocarbons, including the placement and
operation of compressors, separators and other customary
production equipment for an individual well adjacent to the well
head
A P
4.3. Mining and processing of oil, gas or other subsurface
resources, as defined in ORS chapter 520, and not otherwise
permitted by 4.2 above (e.g. compressors, separators, and
storage servicing multiple wells), and mining and processing of
aggregate and mineral resources as defined in ORS chapter
517
C III (4), (4)(d)
4.4. Temporary asphalt and concrete batch plants as accessory
uses to specific highway projects
C II (4)
5. Transportation Uses
5.1. Climbing and passing lanes within the right of way existing as
of July 1, 1987
A P
5.2. Reconstruction or modification of public roads and highways,
including the placement of utility facilities overhead and in the
subsurface of public roads and highways along the public right
of way, but not including the addition of travel lanes, where no
removal or displacement of buildings would occur, or no new
land parcels result
A P
May 2026 16-97 LC 16.211
Table 16.211-1: Use Table for Impacted Forest Zones
I = Type I   II = Type II    III = Type III   P = Permitted Outright    AL = Assembly License

Use Use
Type
Local
Procedure
Type
Subject
to
5.3. Temporary public road and highway detours that will be
abandoned and restored to condition or use in effect prior to
construction of the detour at such time as no longer needed
A P
5.4. Minor betterment of existing public road and highway related
facilities such as maintenance yards, weigh stations and rest
areas, within right of way existing as of July 1, 1987, and
contiguous public-owned property utilized to support the
operation and maintenance of public roads and highways
A P
5.5. Operations, maintenance, and repair as defined in LC 15.010
of existing transportation facilities, services, and
improvements, including road, bicycle, pedestrian, port, airport
and rail facilities, and major regional pipelines and terminals
A P
5.6. Dedication of right-of-way, authorization of construction and
the construction of facilities and improvements, where the
improvements are consistent with clear and objective
dimensional standards
A P
5.7. Preservation as defined in LC 15.010, and rehabilitation
activities and projects as defined in LC 15.101 for existing
transportation facilities, services, and improvements, including
road bicycle, pedestrian, port, airport and rail facilities, and
major regional pipelines and terminals
A P
5.8. Changes in the frequency of transit, rail and airport services A P
5.9. Construction of additional passing and travel lanes requiring
the acquisition of right of way but not resulting in the creation
of new land parcels
C II (4)
5.10. Reconstruction or modification of public roads and highways
involving the removal or displacement of buildings but not
resulting in the creation of new land parcels
C II  (4)
5.11. Improvement of public road and highway related facilities, such
as maintenance yards, weigh stations and rest areas, where
additional property or right of way is required but not resulting
in the creation of new land parcels
C II  (4)
5.12. Bikeways, footpaths, and recreation trails not otherwise
allowed as a modification or part of an existing road
C II (4)
5.13. Park and ride lots C II (4)
5.14. Railroad mainlines and branch lines C II (4)
May 2026 16-98 LC 16.211
Table 16.211-1: Use Table for Impacted Forest Zones
I = Type I   II = Type II    III = Type III   P = Permitted Outright    AL = Assembly License

Use Use
Type
Local
Procedure
Type
Subject
to
5.15. Pipelines C II (4)
5.16. Navigation channels C II (4)
5.17. Realignment as defined in LC 15.010 not otherwise permitted
pursuant to this chapter
C II (3)(l), (4)
5.18. Replacement of an intersection with an interchange C II (3)(l), (4)
5.19. Continuous median turn lanes C II (3)(l), (4)
5.20. New roads as defined in LC 15.010 that are County Roads
functionally classified as Local Roads or Collectors, or are
Public Roads or Local Access Roads as defined in LC
15.010(35) in areas where the function of the road is to reduce
local access to or local traffic on a state highway
C II (3)(l), (4)
5.21. Transportation facilities, services, and improvements other
than those listed in LC 16.211 that serve local travel needs
C II (3)(l), (4)
5.22. Expansion of lawfully existing airports C II (4), (5),
(6)
6. Utility and Power Generation, Solid Waste
6.1. Local distribution lines (e.g. electric, telephone, natural gas) &
accessory equipment (e.g. electric distribution transformers,
poles, meter cabinets, terminal boxes, pedestals), or
equipment that provides service hookups, including water
service hookups
A P
6.2. Water intake facilities, canals and distribution lines for farm on
and ponds
A P
6.3. Disposal site for solid waste approved by the governing body
of a city or county or both and for which the Oregon
Department of Environmental Quality has granted a permit
under ORS 459.245, together with equipment, facilities or
buildings necessary for its operation;
C II (4), (5),
(6)
6.4. Television, microwave and radio communication facilities and
transmission towers
C II (4), (5),
(6)
6.5. New electric transmission lines with right-of-way widths of up
to 100 feet as specified in ORS 772.210. New distribution lines
(e.g. gas, oil, geothermal, telephone, fiber optic cable) with
rights-of-way 50 feet or less in width
C II (4)
May 2026 16-99 LC 16.211
Table 16.211-1: Use Table for Impacted Forest Zones
I = Type I   II = Type II    III = Type III   P = Permitted Outright    AL = Assembly License

Use Use
Type
Local
Procedure
Type
Subject
to
6.6. Water intake facilities, related treatment facilities, pumping
stations and distribution lines
C II (4), (5),
(6)
6.7. Reservoirs and water impoundments C II (4)
6.8. Commercial utility facilities for the purpose of generating power C II (3)(i), (4),
(5), (6)
6.9. Telecommunication tower changeout A I (8)
6.10. Collocation to an existing telecommunication tower: Spectrum
Act exemption eligible
A I (8)
6.11. Telecommunication tower collocation  A II (8)
6.12. New telecommunication tower or replacement tower C III (4), (5),
(6), (8)
7. Public and Quasi-public Uses
7.1. Towers and fire stations for forest fire protection A II (5), (6)
7.2. Youth camps A II (3)(m),
(5), (6)
7.3. Aids to navigation and aviation C II (4), (5),
(6)
7.4. Firearms training facility as provided in ORS 197.770 C II (4), (5),
(6)
7.5. Fire stations for rural fire protection C II (4), (5),
(6)
7.6. Cemeteries C II (4)
7.7. Public parks and public campgrounds, including those uses
specified under OAR 660-034-0035 or OAR 660-034-0040
C II (4), (5),
(6)
7.8. Private parks and private campgrounds C II (3)(j), (4),
(5), (6)
7.9. Storage structures for emergency supplies C II  (3)(n),
(4), (5),
(6)
8. Outdoor Gatherings
May 2026 16-100 LC 16.211
Table 16.211-1: Use Table for Impacted Forest Zones
I = Type I   II = Type II    III = Type III   P = Permitted Outright    AL = Assembly License

Use Use
Type
Local
Procedure
Type
Subject
to
8.1. An outdoor gathering of fewer than 3,000 persons, that is not
anticipated to continue for more than 120 hours in any three-
month period
A P or AL (if
over 1,000
persons)
LC 3.995
8.2. An outdoor mass gathering of more than 3,000 persons, that is
not anticipated to continue for more than 120 hours in any
three-month period, and which is held primarily in open spaces
and not in any permanent structure as provided in ORS
433.735-760
A III ORS
433.735-
760
8.3. Any outdoor gathering of more than 3,000 persons that is
anticipated to continue for more than 120 hours in any three-
month period is subject to review by the  Planning Commission
under ORS 433.763, notwithstanding Type III Hearings Official
review
C III (LCPC) (3)(o)
9. Accessory Uses

9.1. Uses and buildings accessory to existing uses and
development permitted by LC 16.211.
A P or II (3)(r), (5),
(6)

(3) Use Standards
(a) A large tract forest dwelling may be allowed on a lot or parcel zoned for forest
use, but it must comply with other provisions of law, including the following:
The tract does not include a dwelling.
The tract is at least 160 contiguous acres or 200 acres in one ownership
that are not contiguous but are in Lane County or adjacent counties and
zoned for forest use.
(aa) A tract cannot be considered to consist of less than 160 acres
because it is crossed by a public road or a waterway.
Prior to issuance of a building permit, a deed restriction must be filed for
all tracts that are used to meet the acreage requirements of this
subsection pursuant to:
(aa) The applicant must provide evidence that the covenants,
conditions, and restrictions form adopted as "Exhibit A" in OAR
chapter 660, division 6 has been recorded with the county clerk of
the county or counties where the property subject to the
covenants, conditions, and restrictions is located.
May 2026 16-101 LC 16.211
(bb) The covenants, conditions, and restrictions are irrevocable, unless
a statement of release is signed by an authorized representative
of the county or counties where the property subject to the
covenants, conditions and restrictions is located.
(b) A lot of record dwelling may be allowed on a lot or parcel zoned for forest use
pursuant to the following:
The lot or parcel on which the dwelling will be sited was lawfully created
and was acquired and owned continuously by the present owner as
defined in paragraph (iv):
(aa) Since prior to January 1, 1985; or
(bb) By devise or by intestate succession from a person who acquired
and had owned continuously the lot or parcel since prior to
January 1, 1985;
The tract on which the dwelling will be sited does not include a dwelling;
If the lot or parcel on which the dwelling will be sited was part of a tract on
November 4, 1993, no dwelling exists on another lot or parcel that was
part of that tract;
For purposes of this subsection, “owner" includes the wife, husband, son,
daughter, mother, father, brother, brother-in-law, sister, sister-in-law, son-
in-law, daughter-in-law, mother-in-law, father-in-law, aunt, uncle, niece,
nephew, stepparent, stepchild, grandparent or grandchild of the owner or
a business entity owned by any one or combination of these family
members;
The dwelling must be located on a tract that is composed of soils not
capable of producing 5,000 cubic feet per year of commercial tree
species and is located within 1,500 feet of a public road as defined in LC
Chapter 15 that provides or will provide access to the subject tract. The
road must be maintained and either paved or surfaced with rock and
cannot be:
(aa) A United States Bureau of Land Management road; or
(bb) A United States Forest Service road unless the road is paved to a
minimum width of 18 feet, there is at least one defined lane in
each direction and a maintenance agreement exists between the
United States Forest Service and landowners adjacent to the
road, a local government or a state agency;
When the lot or parcel on which the dwelling will be sited is part of a tract,
the remaining portions of the tract must be consolidated into a single lot
or parcel when the dwelling is allowed; and
May 2026 16-102 LC 16.211
When the lot or parcel on which the dwelling will be sited lies within an
area designated in the Rural Comprehensive Plan as habitat of big game,
the siting of the dwelling must be consistent with the limitations on density
upon which the Rural Comprehensive Plan and land use regulations
intended to protect the habitat are based.
(c) A single family “template” dwelling authorized on a lot or parcel located within a
forest zone pursuant to the following:
If the lot or parcel is predominantly composed of soils that are:
(aa) Capable of producing zero to 49 cubic feet per acre per year of
wood fiber if:
(A) All or part of at least three other lots or parcels that existed
on January 1, 1993, are within a 160-acre square centered
on the center of the subject tract; and
(B) At least three dwellings existed on January 1, 1993 and
continue to exist on the other lots or parcels.
(bb) Capable of producing 50 to 85 cubic feet per acre per year of
wood fiber if:
(A) All or part of at least seven other lots or parcels that
existed on January 1, 1993, are within a 160-acre square
centered on the center of the subject tract; and
(B) At least three dwellings existed on January 1, 1993 and
continue to exist on the other lots or parcels.
(cc) Capable of producing more than 85 cubic feet per acre per year of
wood fiber if:
(A) All or part of at least 11 other lots or parcels that existed on
January 1, 1993, are within a 160 acre square centered on
the center of the subject tract; and
(B) At least three dwellings existed on January 1, 1993 and
continue to exist on the other lots or parcels.
Lots or parcels within urban growth boundaries cannot be used to satisfy
the eligibility requirements of subsection (i) above;
A dwelling, as used in subsection (i) above, is considered to be in the
160-acre template if any part of the parcel is in the 160-acre template;
May 2026 16-103 LC 16.211
Except as provided by subsection (v) below, if the subject tract abuts a
road that existed on January 1, 1993, the measurement required in (i)
above may be made by creating a 160 acre rectangle that is one mile
long and 1/4 mile wide centered on the center of the subject tract and that
is to the maximum extent possible, aligned with the road;
The following applies where a tract 60 acres or larger abuts a road or
perennial stream:
(aa) The measurement must be made in accordance with paragraph
(iv). However, one of the three required dwellings must be on the
same side of the road or stream as the tract, and:
(A) Be located within a 160-acre rectangle that is one mile
long and one-quarter mile wide centered on the center of
the subject tract and that is, to the maximum extent
possible aligned with the road or stream; or
(B) Be within one-quarter mile from the edge of the subject
tract but not outside the length of the 160 acre rectangle,
and on the same side of the road or stream as the tract;
(bb) If a road crosses the tract on which the dwelling will be located, at
least one of the three required dwellings must be on the same
side of the road as the proposed dwelling;
A proposed “template” dwelling under this section is not allowed:
(aa) Unless no dwellings are allowed on other lots or parcels that make
up the tract and deed restrictions established under paragraph
(3)(a)(iii) for the other lots or parcels that make up the tract are
met; or
(bb) If the tract on which the dwelling will be sited includes a dwelling;
Where other lots or parcels that make up a tract in Subsection (vi):
(aa) The applicant must provide evidence that the covenants,
conditions, and restrictions form adopted as "Exhibit A" in OAR
chapter 660, division 6 has been recorded with the county clerk of
the county or counties where the property subject to the
covenants, conditions, and restrictions is located;
(bb) The covenants, conditions, and restrictions are irrevocable, unless
a statement of release is signed by an authorized representative
of the county or counties where the property subject to the
covenants, conditions, and restrictions is located;
May 2026 16-104 LC 16.211
The Director shall maintain a copy of the covenants, conditions, and
restrictions filed in the county deed records pursuant to this section and a
map or other record depicting tracts do not qualify for the siting of a
dwelling under the covenants, conditions, and restrictions filed in the
county deed records pursuant to this section. The map or other record
required by this subsection shall be readily available to the public in the
county planning office.
(d) Alteration, restoration, or replacement of a lawfully established dwelling, subject
to the following:
The dwelling was lawfully established;
The lawfully established dwelling:
(aa) Has intact exterior walls and roof structures;
(bb) Has indoor plumbing consisting of a kitchen sink, toilet and
bathing facilities connected to a sanitary waste disposal system;
(cc) Has interior wiring for interior lights; and
(dd) Has a heating system;
In the case of replacement, is removed, demolished, or converted to an
allowable nonresidential use within three months of the completion of the
replacement dwelling.
(e) A temporary hardship dwelling is subject to the following:
One manufactured dwelling (MH), recreational vehicle (RV), or the
temporary residential use of an existing building may be allowed in
conjunction with an existing dwelling as a temporary use for the term of
the hardship suffered by the existing resident or relative, subject to the
following:
(aa) The hardship dwelling must use the same subsurface sewage
disposal system used by the existing dwelling, if that disposal
system is adequate to accommodate the additional dwelling. If a
public sanitary sewer system is available, the hardship dwelling
may connect to the public system and not use a subsurface
sewage disposal system;
(bb) Except as provided in (3)(e)(i)(cc) below, approval of a temporary
hardship dwelling permit is valid until December 31 of the year
following the year of original permit approval and may be renewed
once every two years until the hardship situation ceases or unless
in the opinion of the Lane County Sanitarian the on-site sewage
disposal system no longer meets DEQ requirement;
May 2026 16-105 LC 16.211
(cc) Within 90 days of the end of the hardship situation, the MH or RV
must be removed from the property or demolished. In the case of
an existing building, the building must be removed, demolished, or
returned to an allowable nonresidential use or demolished; and
(dd) The temporary hardship dwelling will comply with Oregon
Department of Environmental Quality review and removal
requirements;
As used in this section “hardship” means a medical hardship or hardship
for the care of an aged or infirm person or persons; and
A temporary hardship dwelling approved under (3)(e) above cannot be
eligible for replacement under (3)(d) above.
(f) A home occupation must:
Be operated by a resident or employee of a resident of the property on
which the business is located;
Employ on the site no more than five full-time or part-time persons at any
given time;
Be operated substantially in the dwelling or other buildings normally
associated with uses permitted in the F-2 Zone;
Not unreasonably interfere with other uses permitted in LC 16.211;
Comply with sanitation and building code requirements prior to start of
Home Occupation; and
Not be used as a justification for a zone change.
 (g) Private seasonal accommodations for fee hunting operations are subject to the
following requirements:
Accommodations are limited to no more than 15 guest rooms as that term
is defined in the Oregon Structural Specialty Code;
Only minor incidental and accessory retail sales are permitted; and
Accommodations are occupied temporarily for the purpose of hunting
during either or both game bird or big game hunting seasons authorized
by the Oregon Fish and Wildlife Commission.
(h) Private accommodations for fishing occupied on a temporary basis are subject to
the following requirements:
Accommodations limited to no more than 15 guest rooms as that term is
defined in the Oregon Structural Specialty Code;
Only minor incidental and accessory retail sales are permitted;
May 2026 16-106 LC 16.211
Accommodations occupied temporarily for the purpose of fishing during
fishing seasons authorized by the Oregon Fish and Wildlife Commission;
and
Accommodations must be located within one-quarter mile of fish-bearing
Class I waters.
(i) A commercial utility facility for the purpose of generating power cannot preclude
more than 10 acres from use as a commercial forest operation, unless an
exception is taken pursuant to OAR 600, Division 4.
(j) Private Parks and Private Campgrounds.
Campgrounds in private parks may be permitted, subject to the following:
(aa) Except on a lot or parcel contiguous to a lake or reservoir,
campgrounds are not allowed within three miles of an urban
growth boundary unless an exception is approved pursuant to
ORS 197.732 and OAR chapter 660, division 4;
(bb) A campground must be designed and integrated into the rural
agricultural and forest environment in a manner that protects the
natural amenities of the site and provides buffers of existing native
trees and vegetation or other natural features between campsites;
(cc) Campgrounds authorized by this rule cannot include intensively
developed recreational uses such as swimming pools, tennis
courts, retail stores, or gas stations;
(dd) Overnight temporary use in the same campground by a camper or
camper's vehicle cannot exceed a total of 30 days during any
consecutive six-month period;
(ee) Campsites may be occupied by a tent, travel trailer, yurt, or
recreational vehicle. Separate sewer, water, or electric service
hook-ups cannot be provided to individual camp sites except that
electrical service may be provided to yurts allowed by Section
(3)(j)(i)(ff); and
(ff) A private campground may provide yurts for overnight camping.
No more than one-third or a maximum of 10 campsites, whichever
is smaller, may include a yurt. The yurt must be located on the
ground or on a wood floor with no permanent foundation.
(k) Permanent facility for the primary processing of forest products.
Located in a building or buildings that do not exceed 10,000 square feet
in total floor area; or
Located in an outdoor area that does not exceed one acre excluding
laydown and storage yards; or
May 2026 16-107 LC 16.211
Located in a proportionate combination of indoor and outdoor areas
described in Sections (3)(k)(i) and (ii); and
Adequately separated from surrounding properties to reasonably mitigate
noise, odor, and other impacts generated by the facility that adversely
affect forest management and other existing uses, as determined by Lane
County.
(l) Certain transportation facilities and uses must comply with the following:
Identify reasonable build design alternatives, such as alternative
alignments, that are safe and can be constructed at a reasonable cost,
not considering raw land costs, with available technology. The jurisdiction
need not consider alternatives that are inconsistent with applicable
standards or not approved by a registered professional engineer;
Assess the effects of the identified alternatives on farm and forest
practices, considering impacts to farm and forest lands, structures and
facilities, considering the effects of traffic on the movement of farm and
forest vehicles and equipment and considering the effects of access to
parcels created on farm and forest lands; and
Select from the identified alternatives, the one, or combination of
identified alternatives that has the least impact on lands in the immediate
vicinity devoted to farm or forest use.
(m) Youth Camps
The purpose of a youth camp is to provide for the establishment of a
youth camp that is generally self-contained and located on a parcel
suitable to limit potential impacts on nearby and adjacent land and to be
compatible with the forest environment. Changes to or expansions of
youth camps established prior to June 14, 2000, are subject to the
provisions of ORS 215.130.
An application for a proposed youth camp must comply with the following:
(aa) The number of overnight camp participants that may be
accommodated must be determined by Lane County, based on
the size, topography, geographic features and any other
characteristics of the proposed site for the youth camp. Except as
provided by paragraph (3)(m)(ii)(bb) a youth camp cannot provide
overnight accommodations for more than 350 youth camp
participants, including staff.
(bb) Lane County may allow up to eight (8) nights during the calendar
year when the number of overnight participants may exceed the
total number of overnight participants allowed under paragraph
(3)(m)(ii)(aa).
May 2026 16-108 LC 16.211
(cc) Overnight stays for adult programs primarily for individuals over 21
years of age, not including staff, cannot exceed 10 percent of the
total camper nights offered by the youth camp.
(dd) The use will not force a significant change in, or significantly
increase the cost of, accepted farming or forest practices on
agriculture or forest lands.
(ee) A campground as described in Subsection (3)(j) cannot be
established in conjunction with a youth camp.
(ff) A youth camp cannot be allowed in conjunction with an existing
golf course.
(gg) A youth camp cannot interfere with the exercise of legally
established water rights on adjacent properties.
The youth camp must be located on a lawful parcel that is:
(aa) Suitable to provide a forested setting needed to ensure a primarily
outdoor experience without depending upon the use or natural
characteristics of adjacent and nearby public and private land.
This determination is based on the size, topography, geographic
features and any other characteristics of the proposed site for the
youth camp, as well as, the number of overnight participants and
type and number of proposed facilities.
(bb) Is at least 40 acres in size.
(cc) Suitable to provide a protective buffer to separate the visual and
audible aspects of youth camp activities from other nearby and
adjacent lands. The buffers must consist of forest vegetation,
topographic or other natural features as well as structural
setbacks from adjacent public and private lands, roads, and
riparian areas. The structural setback from roads and adjacent
public and private property is 250 feet unless the governing body,
or its designate sets a different setback based upon the following
criteria that may be applied on a case-by-case basis:
(A) The proposed setback will prevent conflicts with
commercial resource management practices;
(B) The proposed setback will prevent a significant increase in
safety hazards associated with vehicular traffic; and
(C) The proposed setback will provide an appropriate buffer
from visual and audible aspects of youth camp activities
from other nearby and adjacent resource lands.
May 2026 16-109 LC 16.211
(dd) Suitable to provide for the establishment of sewage disposal
facilities without requiring a sewer system as defined in OAR 660-
011-0060(1)(f). Prior to granting final approval, the governing body
or its designate must verify that a proposed youth camp will not
result in the need for a sewer system.
A youth camp may provide for the following facilities:
(aa) Recreational facilities limited to passive improvements, such as
open areas suitable for ball fields, volleyball courts, soccer fields,
archery or shooting ranges, hiking and biking trails, horseback
riding or swimming that can be provided in conjunction with the
site's natural environment. Intensively developed facilities such as
tennis courts, gymnasiums, and golf courses are not allowed. One
swimming pool may be allowed if no lake or other water feature
suitable for aquatic recreation is located on the subject property or
immediately available for youth camp use.
(bb) Primary cooking and eating facilities must be included in a single
building. Except in sleeping quarters, the governing body, or its
designate, may allow secondary cooking and eating facilities in
one or more buildings designed to accommodate other youth
camp activities. Food services are limited to the operation of the
youth camp and provided only for youth camp participants. The
sale of individual meals may be offered only to family members or
guardians of youth camp participants.
(cc) Bathing and laundry facilities except that they cannot be provided
in the same building as sleeping quarters.
(dd) Up to three camp activity buildings, not including primary cooking
and eating facilities.
(ee) Sleeping quarters including cabins, tents, or other structures.
Sleeping quarters may include toilets, but, except for the
caretaker's dwelling, cannot include kitchen facilities. Sleeping
quarters can be provided only for youth camp participants and
must not be offered as overnight accommodations for persons not
participating in youth camp activities or as individual rentals.
(ff) Covered areas that are not fully enclosed.
(gg) Administrative, maintenance, and storage buildings; permanent
structure for administrative services, first aid, equipment and
supply storage, and for use as an infirmary if necessary or
requested by the applicant.
(hh) An infirmary may provide sleeping quarters for the medical care
provider (e.g. Doctor, Registered Nurse, Emergency Medical
Technician, etc.).
May 2026 16-110 LC 16.211
(ii) A caretaker's residence may be established in conjunction with a
youth camp, if no other dwelling exists on the subject property.
A proposed youth camp must comply with the following fire safety
requirements:
(aa) The fire siting standards in Section (6).
(bb) A fire safety protection plan must be developed for each youth
camp that includes the following:
(A) Fire prevention measures;
(B) On site pre-suppression and suppression measures; and
(C) The establishment and maintenance of fire safe area(s) in
which camp participants can gather in the event of a fire.
(cc) Except as determined under paragraph (3)(m)(v)(dd), a youth
camp's on-site fire suppression capability must at least include:
(A) A 1000 gallon mobile water supply that can access all
areas of the camp;
(B) A 30 gallon-per-minute water pump and an adequate
amount of hose and nozzles;
(C) A sufficient number of fire-fighting hand tools; and
(D) Trained personnel capable of operating all fire suppression
equipment at the camp during designated periods of fire
danger.
(dd) An equivalent level of fire suppression facilities may be
determined by the governing body, or it’s designate. The
equivalent capability must be based on the Oregon Department of
Forestry's (ODF) Wildfire Hazard Zone rating system, the
response time of the effective wildfire suppression agencies, and
consultation with ODF personnel if the camp is within an area
protected by ODF and not served by a local structural fire
protection provider.
(ee) The provisions of paragraph (3)(m)(v)(dd) may be waived by the
governing body, or its designate, if the youth camp is located in an
area served by a structural fire protection provider and that
provider informs the governing body in writing that on-site fire
suppression at the camp is not needed.
May 2026 16-111 LC 16.211
The Director, or its designate, requires as a condition of approval of a
youth camp, that the land owner of the youth camp sign and record in the
deed records for the county a document binding the land owner, or
operator of the youth camp if different from the owner, and the land
owner's or operator's successors in interest, prohibiting them from
pursuing a claim for relief or cause of action alleging injury from farming
or forest practices for which no action or claim is allowed under ORS
30.936 or 30.937.
(n) Storage structures for emergency supplies located west of the summit of the
Coastal Range to serve communities and households located in tsunami
inundation zones, as depicted on tsunami inundation maps prepared by
Department of Geology and Mineral Industries (DOGAMI):
Areas within an urban growth boundary cannot reasonably accommodate
the structures;
The structures are located outside tsunami inundation zones and
consistent with evacuation maps prepared by Department of Geology and
Mineral Industries (DOGAMI);
Sites where the structure could be co-located with an existing use
approved under this section are given preference for consideration;
The structures are of a number and size no greater than necessary to
accommodate the anticipated emergency needs of the population to be
served;
The structures are managed by a local government entity for the single
purpose of providing for the temporary emergency support needs of the
public; and
Notice of application for proposed storage structures is provided
according to LC Chapter 14 to Lane County Emergency Management.
As used in this section, “storage structures for emergency supplies”
means structures to accommodate those goods, materials and equipment
required to meet the essential and immediate needs of an affected
population in a disaster. Such supplies include food, clothing, temporary
shelter materials, durable medical goods and pharmaceuticals, electric
generators, water purification gear, communication equipment, tools and
other similar emergency supplies.
(o) Any outdoor gathering of more than 3,000 people for more than 120 hours within
any three-month period must comply with the following requirements:
The applicant has complied or can comply with the requirements for an
outdoor mass gathering permit set out in ORS 433.750;
The proposed gathering is compatible with existing land uses;
May 2026 16-112 LC 16.211
The proposed gathering shall not materially alter the stability of the overall
land use pattern of the area; and
The provisions of ORS 433.755 shall apply to the proposed gathering.
(p) For single-family dwellings, the landowner must sign and record in the deed
records for the County a document binding the landowner, and the landowner's
successors in interest, prohibiting them from pursuing a claim for relief or cause
of action alleging injury from farming or forest practices for which no action or
claim is allowed under ORS 30.936 or 30.937.
(q) For single-family dwellings, the approval is valid for four years from the date of
approval, unless otherwise specified in the approval or by other provisions of
Lane Code.  Notwithstanding the requirements of LC Chapter 14, an application
for a two year extension of the timelines for the permit approval can be made and
approved pursuant to LC Chapter 14.
(r) If the proposed structure is located on the same site as the existing dwelling, the
application is exempt from LC 16.211(5)(a). For the purpose of LC 16.211(3)(r),
the “same site” is defined as a square with dimensions of 200 feet which is
centered on the footprint of the established dwelling.
(4) Conditional Use Review Criteria
A Conditional Use listed in Table 16.211-1 of this zone that references this section may be
allowed provided the following requirements are satisfied. These requirements are designed to
make the use compatible with forest operations and agriculture and to conserve values found on
forest lands.
(a) The proposed use will not force a significant change in, or significantly increase
the cost of, accepted farming or forest practices on agriculture or forest lands.
(b) The proposed use will not significantly increase fire hazard or significantly
increase fire suppression costs or significantly increase risks to fire suppression
personnel.
(c) A written statement recorded with the deed or written contract with the county or
its equivalent is obtained from the land owner that recognizes the rights of
adjacent and nearby land owners to conduct forest operations consistent with the
Forest Practices Act and Rules for Use 2.6, Use 3.6, Use 3.10, Use 6.6, and Use
7.8.
(d) For Use 4.3: the use will not significantly conflict with the existing uses on
adjacent and nearby lands.
(5) Siting Standards for Uses, Activities, and Structures
The following siting criteria apply to all new uses, activities, and structures allowed by LC
16.211. These criteria are designed to make such uses compatible with forest operations, to
minimize wildfire hazards and risks and to conserve values found on forest lands. The Director
May 2026 16-113 LC 16.211
must consider the criteria in this section together with the requirements of Section (6) to identify
the building site.
(a) Residences, dwellings, and structures must be sited as follows:
(b) Setbacks. Structures other than a fence or sign cannot be located closer than:
20 feet from the right-of-way of a state road, County road, or a local
access public road specified in LC Chapter 15.
30 feet from all property lines other than those described in Section
(5)(b)(i).
The minimum distance necessary to comply Sections (5)(a) and (6).
Riparian Setback Area. A riparian setback area applies to the area
between a line that is 100 feet from and parallel to the ordinary high water
of a Class I stream designated in the Rural Comprehensive Plan. No
structure other than a fence may be located closer than 100 feet from the
ordinary high water of a Class I stream unless an application for
alternative standards is approved in accordance with LC 16.253(6).
Vegetation maintenance, removal, and replacement standards and
exceptions to these setbacks are found in LC 16.253.
(c) Domestic Water Supplies.  For new dwellings and non-farm structures on vacant
land, evidence must be provided that the domestic water supply is from a source
authorized in accordance with the Water Resources Department's administrative
rules for the appropriation of ground water or surface water and not from a Class
II stream as defined in the Forest Practices Rule, OAR Chapter 629.  If the water
supply is unavailable from public sources or sources located entirely on the
property, then the applicant must provide evidence that a legal easement has
been obtained permitting domestic water lines to cross the properties of affected
owners.  For purposes of LC 16.211(5)(c) above, evidence of domestic water
supply means:
May 2026 16-114 LC 16.211
Verification from a water purveyor that the use described in the
application will be served by the purveyor under the purveyor's rights to
appropriate water;
A water use permit issued by the Water Resources Department for the
use described in the application; or
Verification from the Water Resources Department that a water use
permit is not required for the use described in the application. If the
proposed water supply is from a well and is exempt from permitting
requirements under ORS 537.545, the applicant must submit the well
constructor's report to the Director upon completion of the well.
(d) As a condition of approval, if road access to the dwelling is by a road owned and
maintained by a private party or by the Oregon Department of Forestry, the U.S.
Bureau of Land Management, or the U.S. Forest Service, then the applicant must
provide proof of a long-term road access use permit or agreement. The road use
permit may require the applicant to agree to accept responsibility for road
maintenance.
(e) Approval of a dwelling is subject to the following requirements:
Approval of a dwelling requires the owner of the tract to plant a sufficient
number of trees on the tract to demonstrate that the tract is reasonably
expected to meet Department of Forestry stocking requirements at the
time specified in department of Forestry administrative rules.
The Director must notify the County Assessor of the above condition at
the time the dwelling is approved.
Stocking survey report:
(aa) If the lot or parcel is more than ten acres, the property owner must
submit a stocking survey report to the County Assessor and the
Assessor will verify that the minimum stocking requirements have
been met by the time required by Department of Forestry rules;
and
(bb) Upon notification by the Assessor, the Department of Forestry will
determine whether the tract meets minimum stocking
requirements of the Forest Practices Act. If the Department of
Forestry determines that the tract does not meet those
requirements, that department will notify the owner and the
Assessor that the land is not being managed as forest land. The
Assessor will then remove the forest land designation pursuant to
ORS 321.359 and impose the additional tax.
(f) Signs.
Signs cannot extend over a public right-of-way or project beyond the
property line;
May 2026 16-115 LC 16.211
Signs cannot be illuminated, flashing, blinking, contain scrolling images,
or capable of movement; and
Signs are to be limited to 200 square feet in area.
(6) Fire-Siting Standards for Dwellings and Structures
The following fire-siting standards or their equivalent apply to new residences, dwellings,
manufactured dwellings, or structures allowed in Lane Code 16.211:
(a) The dwelling must be located upon a parcel within a fire protection district or
must be provided with residential fire protection by contract. If the dwelling is not
within a fire protection district, the applicant must provide evidence that the
applicant has asked to be included within the nearest such district. If the Director
determines that inclusion within a fire protection district or contracting for
residential fire protection is impracticable, the dwelling must comply with the
following fire safety plan requirements:
The means selected may include a fire sprinkling system, onsite
equipment and water storage or other methods that are reasonable, given
the site conditions;
If a water supply is required for fire protection, it must be a swimming
pool, pond, lake, or similar body of water that at all times contains at least
4,000 gallons or a stream that has a continuous year round flow of at
least one cubic foot per second;
The applicant must provide verification from the Water Resources
Department that any permits or registrations required for water diversion
or storage have been obtained or that permits or registrations are not
required for the use;
Road access must be provided to within 15 feet of the water's edge for
firefighting pumping units. The road access must accommodate the
turnaround of firefighting equipment during the fire season. Permanent
signs must be posted along the access route to indicate the location of
the emergency water source; and
A 100-foot wide primary safety zone and a 100-foot wide secondary
safety zone surrounding the perimeter of the dwelling or manufactured
dwelling structures must be provided and maintained in perpetuity in
compliance with the standards in (6)(c).
(b) Fire Safety Design Standards for Roads and Driveways.
May 2026 16-116 LC 16.211
Private driveways, roads or bridges accessing only commercial forest
uses are not subject to compliance with these fire safety design standards
for roads and driveways. The route of access for firefighting equipment,
from the fire station to the destination point, across public roads, bridges,
private roads or private access easements and driveways must comply
with the standards specified below. Evidence of compliance with the
standards specified in (6)(b) should include objective information about
the firefighting equipment, the physical nature of the access route, the
nature of any proposed improvements to the access route, and it may
also include a written verification of compliance from the agency providing
fire protection, or a written certification of compliance from an Oregon
Registered Professional Engineer.  As used herein, "road" means a way
of access used for more than one use and accessory uses dwelling or
manufactured dwelling. As used herein, "driveway" means a way of
access used for only one dwelling or manufactured dwelling.
Road and Driveway Surfaces.  Roads must have unobstructed widths of
at least 20 feet including:  travel surfaces with widths of at least 16 feet
constructed with gravel to a depth sufficient to provide access for fire
fighting vehicles and containing gravel to a depth of at least six-inches or
with paving having a crushed base equivalent to six inches of gravel, an
unobstructed area two feet in width at right angles with each side of the
constructed surface, curve radii of at least 50 feet, and a vertical
clearance of at least 13 feet 6 inches.  Driveways must have:  constructed
widths of at least 12 feet with at least six inches of gravel or with paving
having a crushed base equivalent to six inches of gravel and must have a
vertical clearance of 13 feet 6 inches.
Turnarounds.  Any dead-end road over 200 feet in length and not
maintained by Lane County must meet these standards for turnarounds.
Dead-end roads must have turnarounds spaced at intervals of not more
than 500 feet.  Turnarounds must comply with these design and
construction standards:
(aa) Hammerhead Turnarounds.  Hammerhead turnarounds (for
emergency vehicles to drive into and back out of to reverse their
direction on the road) must intersect the road as near as possible
at a 90 degree angle and extend from the road at that angle for a
distance of at least 20 feet.  They must be constructed to the
standards for driveways in LC 16.211(6)(b)(i) above and must be
marked and signed by the applicant as "NO PARKING."  Such
signs must be of metal or wood construction with minimum
dimensions of 12 inches by 12 inches; or
(bb) Cul-de-sac Turnarounds.  Cul-de-sac turnarounds must have a
right-of-way width with a radius of at least 45 feet and an improved
surface with a width of at least 36 feet and must be marked and
signed by the applicant as "NO PARKING."  Such signs must be
of metal or wood construction with minimum dimensions of 12
inches by 12 inches; and
May 2026 16-117 LC 16.211
(cc) No cul-de-sacs or hammerhead turnarounds must be allowed to
cross any slope which will allow chimney-effect draws unless the
dangerous effects of the chimney-effect draws have been
mitigated by the location of the road and, where necessary, by the
creation of permanent fire breaks around the road.
Bridges and Culverts.  Bridges and culverts must be constructed to
sustain a minimum gross vehicle weight of 50,000 lbs. and to maintain a
minimum 16-foot road width surface or a minimum 12-foot driveway
surface.  The Planning Director may allow a single-span bridge utilizing a
converted railroad flatcar as an alternative to the road and driveway
surface width requirements, subject to verification from an engineer
licensed in the State of Oregon that the structure will comply with the
minimum gross weight standard of 50,000 lbs.
Road and Driveway Grades.  Road and driveway grades cannot exceed
16 percent except for short distances when topographic conditions make
lesser grades impractical.  In such instances, grades up to 20 percent
may be allowed for spans not to exceed 100 feet.  An applicant must
submit information from a Fire Protection District or engineer licensed in
the State of Oregon demonstrating that road and driveway grades in
excess of eight percent are adequate for the firefighting equipment of the
agency providing fire protection to access the use, firefighting equipment
and water supply.
Identification.  Roads must be named and addressed in compliance with
LC 15.305 through 15.335.
Driveway Vehicle Passage Turnouts.  Driveways in excess of 200 feet
must provide for a 20-foot long and eight-foot wide passage space (turn
out) with six inches in depth of gravel and at a maximum spacing of 400
feet.  Shorter or longer intervals between turnouts may be authorized by
the Planning Director where the Director inspects the road and
determines that topography, vegetation, corners or turns obstruct
visibility.
Modifications and Alternatives. The standards in (6)(b)(i) through
(6)(b)(vii) above may be modified by the approval authority provided the
applicant has submitted objective evidence demonstrating that an
alternative standard would insure adequate access for firefighting
equipment from its point of origination to its point of destination.
(c) Fuel-Free Breaks.  The owners of dwellings and structures must maintain a
primary safety zone surrounding all structures and clear and maintain a
secondary safety zone on land surrounding the dwelling that is owned or
controlled by the owner in compliance with these requirements.
May 2026 16-118 LC 16.211
Primary Safety Zone.  The primary safety zone is a fire break extending a
minimum of 30 feet in all directions around dwellings, manufactured
dwellings and structures, unless otherwise specifically stated in LC
16.211.  The goal within the primary safety zone is to exclude fuels that
will produce flame lengths in excess of one foot.  Vegetation within the
primary safety zone could include green lawns and low shrubs (less than
24 inches in height).  Trees must be spaced with greater than 15 feet
between the crown and pruned to remove dead and low (less than eight
feet) branches.  Accumulated leaves, needles, and other dead vegetation
must be removed from beneath trees.  Nonflammable materials (i.e.,
rock) instead of flammable materials (i.e., bark mulch) must be placed
next to the house.
(aa) As slope increases, the primary safety zone must increase away
from the house, parallel to the slope and down the slope, as
shown in the table and figure below:
Table 16.211-2 Minimum Primary Safety Zone

Slope
Feet of Primary
Safety Zone
Feet of Additional Primary
Safety Zone Down Slope
0%  30  0
10%  30  50
20%  30  75
25%  30  100
40%  30  150

May 2026 16-119 LC 16.211
Figure 16.211-1

Secondary Safety Zone.  The secondary safety zone is a fuel break
extending a minimum of 100 feet in all directions around the primary
safety zone.  The goal of the secondary safety zone is to reduce fuels so
that the overall intensity of any wildfire would be lessened and the
likelihood of crown fires and crowning is reduced.  Vegetation within the
secondary safety zone must be pruned and spaced so that fire will not
spread between crowns of trees.  Small trees and brush growing
underneath larger trees must be removed to prevent spread of fire up into
the crowns of the larger trees.  Dead fuels must be removed.
(d) The dwelling must have a fire retardant roof.
(e) Dwellings or manufactured dwellings must be sited at least 30 feet away from a
ravine, ridge, or any slope greater than 40 percent slope.
(f) If the dwelling has a chimney or chimneys, each chimney must have a spark
arrester.
(7) Land Divisions
(a) The minimum area requirement for the creation of new or adjusted lots or parcels
for land designated as Impacted Forest Land (F-2) is 80 acres. The creation of a
new or adjusted lot or parcel must comply with LC Chapter 13.
May 2026 16-120 LC 16.211
(b) New land divisions or adjustments less than the parcel size in Subsection (a)
may be approved in accordance with LC Chapter 13 for any of the following
circumstances:
The following uses in Table 16.211-1 may be approved pursuant to the
criteria in Section (4) and provided that the parcel created from the
division is the minimum size necessary for the use:
(aa) Use 4.1. Exploration for and production of geothermal, gas, oil and
other associated hydrocarbons
(bb) Use 1.4. Log scaling and weigh stations
(cc) Use 3.7. Permanent facility for the primary processing of forest
products.
(dd) Use 3.8. Permanent logging equipment repair and storage.
(ee) Use 4.3. Mining and processing of oil, gas, or other subsurface
resources, as defined in ORS Chapter 520, and not otherwise
permitted, and mining and processing of aggregate and mineral
resources as defined in ORS Chapter 517.
(ff) Use 6.2. Water intake facilities, related treatment facilities,
pumping stations, and distribution lines.
(gg) Use 6.3. Television, microwave and radio communication facilities
and transmission towers.
(hh) Use 6.6. Reservoirs and water impoundments
(ii) Use 6.7. Commercial power generating facilities
(jj) Use 7.3. Aides to navigation and aviation
(kk) Use 7.4. Firearms training facilities
(ll) Use 7.5. Fire stations for rural fire protection
(mm) Use 7.6. Cemeteries.
(nn) Use 7.7. Public parks
(oo) Use 7.8. Private parks and campgrounds
For the establishment of a parcel for a dwelling that has existed since
before June 1, 1995, subject to the following requirements:
(aa) The parcel established may not be larger than five acres, except
as necessary to recognize physical factors such as roads or
streams, in which case the parcel cannot be larger than 10 acres;
and
May 2026 16-121 LC 16.211
(bb) The parcel that does not contain the dwelling is not entitled to a
dwelling unless subsequently authorized by law or goal and the
parcel either:
(A) Meets the minimum land division standards of the zone; or
(B) Is consolidated with another parcel, and together the
parcels meet the minimum land division standards of the
zone.
(cc) Restrictions
(A) An application for the creation of a parcel pursuant to
paragraph (7)(b)(ii) or (iii) must provide evidence that a
restriction on the remaining parcel, not containing the
dwelling, has been recorded with the county clerk. The
restriction must prohibit dwellings unless authorized by law
or goal on land zoned for forest use except as permitted
under Subsection (b).
(B) A restriction imposed under this subsection is irrevocable
unless a statement of release is signed by the county
planning director of the county where the property is
located indicating that the comprehensive plan or land use
regulations applicable to the property have been changed
in such a manner that the parcel is no longer subject to
statewide planning goals pertaining to agricultural land or
forest land.

To allow a division of forest land to facilitate a forest practice as defined in
ORS 527.620 that results in a parcel that does not meet the minimum
area requirements of Subsection (a). Approvals are based on findings
that demonstrate that there are unique property specific characteristics
present in the proposed parcel that require an amount of land smaller
than the minimum area requirements of Subsection (a) in order to
conduct the forest practice. Parcels created pursuant to this paragraph:
(aa) Are not eligible for siting of a new dwelling;
(bb) May not serve as the justification for the siting of a future dwelling
on other lots or parcels;
(cc) May not, as a result of the land division, be used to justify
redesignation or rezoning of resource lands; and
(dd) May not result in a parcel of less than 35 acres, unless the
purpose of the land division is to:
May 2026 16-122 LC 16.211
(A) Facilitate an exchange of lands involving a governmental
agency; or
(B) Allow transactions in which at least one participant is a
person with a cumulative ownership of at least 2,000 acres
of forest land.
To allow a division of a lot or parcel zoned for forest use if:
(aa) At least two dwellings lawfully existed on the lot or parcel prior to
November 4, 1993;
(bb) Each dwelling complies with the criteria for a replacement dwelling
under paragraph (3)(d)(ii);
(cc) Except for one parcel, each parcel created under this paragraph is
between two and five acres in size;
(dd) At least one dwelling is located on each parcel created under this
paragraph; and
(ee) The landowner of a parcel created under this paragraph provides
evidence that a restriction prohibiting the landowner and the
landowner’s successors in interest from further dividing the parcel
has been recorded with the county clerk of the county in which the
parcel is located. A restriction imposed under this paragraph is
irrevocable unless a statement of release is signed by the county
planning director of the county in which the parcel is located
indicating that the comprehensive plan or land use regulations
applicable to the parcel have been changed so that the parcel is
no longer subject to statewide planning goals protecting forestland
or unless the land division is subsequently authorized by law or by
a change in a statewide planning goal for land zoned for forest
use.
(ff) A lot or parcel may not be divided if an existing dwelling on the lot
or parcel was approved under a statute, an administrative rule or a
land use regulation as defined in ORS 197.015 that required
removal of the dwelling or that prohibited subsequent division of
the lot or parcel.
A division of a lot or parcel if the proposed division of land is for the
purpose of allowing a provider of public parks or open space, or a not-for-
profit land conservation organization, to purchase one of the resulting
parcels as provided in (aa) through (dd) below:
(aa) A parcel created by the land division that is not sold to a provider
of public parks or open space or to a not-for-profit land
conservation organization must comply with the following:
May 2026 16-123 LC 16.211
(A) If the parcel contains a dwelling or another use allowed
under LC 16.211, the parcel must be large enough to
support continued residential use or other allowed use of
the parcel;
(B) If the parcel does not contain a dwelling, the parcel is
eligible for siting a dwelling as may be authorized under
ORS 195.120 or as may be authorized under ORS
215.705, based on the size and configuration of the parcel.
(bb) Before approving a proposed division of land under this section,
the Planning Director must require as a condition of approval that
the provider of public parks or open space, or the not-for-profit
conservation organization, present for recording in Lane County
Deeds and Records, an irrevocable deed restriction prohibiting the
provider or organization and their successors in interest from:
(A) Establishing a dwelling on the parcel or developing the
parcel for any use not authorized in LC 16.211 except park
or conservation uses; and
(B) Pursuing a cause of action or claim of relief alleging an
injury from farming or forest practices for which a claim or
action is not allowed under ORS 30.936 or 30.937.
(cc) If a proposed division of land under (7)(b)(v) results in the
disqualification of a parcel for a special assessment described in
ORS 308A.718 or the withdrawal of a parcel from designation as
riparian habitat under ORS 308A.365, the owner must pay
additional taxes as provided under ORS 308A.371 or 308A.700 to
308A.733 before the Planning Director may approve the division.
(dd) The Planning Director is required to maintain a record of lots and
parcels that do not qualify for development of the property under
restrictions imposed by (7)(b)(v)(aa)(B) above. The record must be
readily available to the public.
A division of a lawfully established unit of land may occur along an
acknowledged urban growth boundary where the parcel remaining
outside the urban growth boundary is zoned as F-2 and is smaller than 80
acres, provided that:
(aa) If the parcel contains a dwelling, it must be large enough to
support continued residential use.
(bb) If the parcel does not contain a dwelling, the parcel:
(A) Is not eligible for siting a dwelling, except as may be
authorized under ORS 195.120;
May 2026 16-124 LC 16.211
(B) May not be considered in approving or denying an
application for siting any other dwelling; and
(C) May not be considered in approving a redesignation or
rezoning of forest lands, except to allow a public park,
open space, or other natural resource use.
(c) A landowner allowed a land division under Subsection (b) must record with the
county clerk an irrevocable deed restriction prohibiting the owner and all
successors in interest from pursuing a cause of action or claim of relief alleging
injury from farming or forest practices for which a claim or action is not allowed
under ORS 30.936 or 30.937.
(d) The Director or hearing authority may not approve a property line adjustment
of a lot or parcel in a manner that separates a temporary hardship dwelling or
home occupation from the parcel on which the primary residential use exists.
(8) Telecommunication Facilities
Telecommunication facilities are allowed subject to compliance with the requirements of LC
16.264 and applicable requirements elsewhere in LC Chapter 16.
(Revised by Ordinance: 20-06,
Effective: 6.16.20; 25-07; 5.5.2026)

This space intentionally left blank.

PAGES 16-125 THROUGH 16-130
ARE RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION