Lane Code
CHAPTER 16 CONTENTS

May 2026 16-i
RURAL RESIDENTIAL ZONE (RR) RURAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
16.290 Residential Zone (RR).
RURAL COMMERCIAL ZONE (RC, RCP)
16.291 Rural Commercial Zone (RC, RCP).

May 2026 16-751
RURAL RESIDENTIAL ZONE (RR) RURAL
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN

16.290 Residential Zone (RR).
 (1) Purpose.  The purposes of the Rural Residential Zone (RR) are:
  (a) To implement the policies of the Lane County Rural Comprehensive Plan (RCP)
pertaining to developed and committed lands.  LC 16.290 does not apply to lands designated by the RCP
as non-resource lands;
  (b) To promote a compatible and safe rural residential living environment by limiting
allowed uses and development to primary and accessory rural residential uses and to other rural uses
compatible with rural residential uses and the uses of nearby lands;
  (c) To provide protective measures for riparian vegetation along Class I streams
designated as significant in the RCP; and
  (d) To provide that LC 16.290 shall not be retroactive and that the Director shall not have
authority to initiate compliance with LC 16.290 for uses and development lawfully existing (per LC Chapter
16) on the effective date that LC 16.290 was applied to the subject property.
 (2) Permitted Uses .  The following uses and activities are allowed subject to the general
provisions and exceptions specified by this chapter of Lane Code:
  (a) The placement, alteration, and maintenance of not more than one permanent single -
family dwelling or manufactured dwelling on a lot or parcel of any size.
  (b) When there are two or more lawfully (not in violation of LC Chapter 16) existing
dwellings or manufactured dwellings on a lot or parcel, then the alteration, restoration, or replacement of
these dwellings or manufactured dwellings shall be allowed subject to compliance with these requirements:
   (i) The property owner shall submit to the Director building permit records from
the Lane County Land Management Division indicating that the existing dwellings or manufactured
dwellings were lawfully constructed or placed on the subject property pursuant to a building permit and the
required building inspection approvals; or
   (ii) The property owner shall submit to the Director a verification of replacement
rights application containing records from the Lane County Assessment and Taxation Office indicating that
the dwelling or manufactured dwelling has existed on the property and has been taxed on a continuous
annual basis from a date that predates zoning that would restrict or regulate the establishment of a dwelling
on the subject property.  The Director shall determine when restrictive zoning was enacted based upon the
official zoning records on file with the Department.
   (iii) Replacement dwellings or manufactured dwellings shall be located on the same
foundation footprint as the removed or destroyed dwelling or manufactured dwelling, or shall be located in
compliance with LC 16.290(7)(a) through (d) below.
   (iv) In the case of replacement, the dwelling or manufactured dwelling to be replaced
shall be removed, demolished, or converted to an allowable use within three months of the completion of
the replacement dwelling.
  (c) Not more than one duplex on a lot or parcel that:
   (i) Is located within the boundaries of an area designated by the Rural
Comprehensive Plan as an unincorporated community;
   (ii) Does not have a dwelling, manufactured dwelling or duplex on it; and
   (iii) Contains at least the minimum area required by LC 16.290(6)(b) below.
  (d) Not more than one manufactured home or recreational vehicle on a lot or parcel, in
addition to an existing dwelling, manufactured home or duplex allowed by LC 16.290(2)(a) through (c)
above, as a temporary use for the term of a medical hardship suffered by a resident of the existing dwelling,
manufactured home or duplex, or a relative of the resident, subject to compliance with these requirements:
   (i) The property owner or authorized representative of the property owner shall
submit to the Director an application on the form provided by the Director.

May 2026 16-752
   (ii) A resident of the existing dwelling, manufactured home or duplex has a medical
hardship and needs care for daily living from a resident of the temporary manufactured  home or recreational
vehicle; or
   (iii) A resident of the temporary manufactured home or recreational vehicle is a
relative of a resident of the existing dwelling, manufactured home or duplex, has a medical hardship and
needs care for daily living which will be provided by a relative living in the existing dwelling, manufactured
dwelling or duplex.  `Relative' means grandparent, step grandparent, grandchild, parent, stepparent, child,
brother, sister, step sibling, aunt, uncle, niece or nephew or first cousin of a resident of the existing dwelling,
manufactured dwelling or duplex.
   (iv) Evidence of the medical hardship and a description of the family relationship
and assistance with the daily living that will be provided shall be furnished and shall consist of:
    (aa) A written statement from a medical physician disclosing the existence of
and need for the medical hardship;
    (bb) Any family relationship between the person with the hardship and the
person who will provide care; and
    (cc) The general nature of the care that will be provided.
   (v) The temporary manufactured home or recreational vehicle shall be located on
the same lot or parcel as the existing dwelling, manufactured home or duplex.
   (vi) The temporary manufactured home or recreational vehicle shall be connected to
the same on-site sewage disposal system serving the existing dwelling, manufactured home or duplex.  If
that sewage disposal system is not adequate for the connection, as determined by the Lane County
Sanitarian, to accommodate the addition of the temporary dwelling, then that sewage disposal system shall
be improved to meet the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) requirements in order to
accommodate the addition of the temporary dwelling.  A separate on-site sewage disposal system meeting
DEQ requirements for the temporary manufactured home or recreational vehicle may be used, when in the
opinion of the Lane County Sanitarian, connecting the temporary dwelling to the existing sewage disposal
system would be impracticable because of the physical conditions of the subject property.  The use of the
separate sewage disposal system by the temporary dwelling shall be discontinued when the hardship ceases
and shall not be used for other purposes unless in compliance with LC Chapter 16.
   (vii) The temporary manufactured home or recreational vehicle shall comply with
applicable Oregon Department of Environmental Quality review and removal requirements.
   (viii) The temporary manufactured home or recreational vehicle shall not be allowed
if there is an accessory living structure, as defined by LC 16.290(2)(t)(i) through (vi) below, on the same
lot or parcel.
   (ix) Except as provided in LC 16.290(2)(d)(x) below, approval of a temporary
manufactured home or recreational vehicle permit shall be valid until December 31 of the year following
the year of original permit approval and may be renewed once every two years until the hardship situation
ceases or unless in the opinion of the Lane County Sanitarian the on-site sewage disposal system no longer
meets DEQ requirements.
   (x) Within 90 days of the expiration date of the temporary hardship permit, the end
of the hardship, or the care provider no longer residing in the temporary manufactured home or recreational
vehicle, the manufactured home or recreational vehicle shall be rem oved from the property, converted to
an allowable nonresidential use or demolished.
  (e) Not more than one bed and breakfast accommodation on a lot or parcel and in a
dwelling, manufactured dwelling or duplex allowed by LC 16.290(2)(a) through (c) above.  A bed and
breakfast accommodation shall have no more than five sleeping rooms provided on a daily or weekly period,
not to exceed 29 consecutive days, for the use of travelers or transients for a charge or fee.  Provision of a
morning meal is customary as implied by title.
  (f) Not more than one residential home on a lot or parcel and in a dwelling, manufactured
dwelling or duplex allowed by LC 16.290(2)(a) through (c) above.  "Residential home" means a residential
treatment or training or an adult foster home licensed by or under the authority of the Department of Human

May 2026 16-753
Resources (DHR) under ORS 443.400 to 443.825, a residential facility registered under ORS 443.480 to
443.500 or an adult foster home licensed under ORS 443.705 to 443.825 which provides residential care
alone or in conjunction with treatment or training, or a combination thereof, for five or fewer individuals
who need not be related.  Staff persons required to meet DHR licensing requirements shall not be counted
in the number of facility residents, and need not be related to each other or to any resident of the home.
  (g) Not more than one child care facility (for a maximum of ten children younger than 13
years of age) that is registered with the State Child Care Division in compliance with ORS 657A.330, or
not more than one group child care home (for seven or more childre n and not more than twelve children)
that is certified by the State Child Care Division in compliance with ORS 657A.280, on a lot or parcel and
in a dwelling, manufactured dwelling or duplex allowed by LC 16.290(2)(a) through (c) above.
  (h) A minor home occupation and/or a home office that comply with these conditions:
   (i) No more than five persons shall work in the minor home occupation and/or home
office, including the operator.  With the following exception, these persons shall reside on the lot or parcel
where the minor home occupation and/or home office are located: one of these persons may reside off the
lot or parcel where the minor home occupation and/or home office are located.
   (ii) The minor home occupation and/or home office shall be conducted substantially
in the dwelling or in an attached or detached structure and shall not exceed 1,000 square feet in floor area.
"Operated substantially in" means indoors except for accessory min or home occupation uses that are
normally located outdoors such as: roads or driveways for ingress and egress; areas for loading or unloading
business vehicles; parking for vehicles operated as part of the home occupation; screened storage areas and
maintenance of minor home occupation vehicles.
   (iii) Customers, not including business or delivery vehicles, shall not come for the
conduct of business to the property where the minor home occupation and/or home office are located.
   (iv) No more than two trips per day shall be made by one or any combination of
business delivery vehicles coming to the subject property in conjunction with the minor home occupation
and/or home office.  This does not include US Postal Service delivery vehicles.
   (v) The operation of sound producing tools, machinery and devices shall comply
with LC 6.225 PROHIBITED NOISE, and shall comply with this more restrictive requirement.  The
operation of sound producing tools, machinery and devices as part of the minor home oc cupation, other
than the vehicles of the owner, shall not produce "Plainly Audible Sound," as defined by LC 6.225.005,
from any boundary of the subject property before 7:30 A.M. or after 5:30 P.M. on Monday through Friday,
or before 11 A.M. or after 1 P.M. on Saturday through Sunday.
   (vi) The operation of the minor home occupation shall comply with LC 9.570
NUISANCE, and shall comply with this more restrictive requirement.  Odors from the home occupation
shall not be plainly detectable from any boundary of the subject property before 7:30 A.M. or after 5:30
P.M. on Monday through Friday or before 11 A.M. or after 1 P.M. on Saturday through Sunday.
   (vii) Advertising signs for the minor  home occupation and/or home office shall not
be displayed on the subject property or structures on the subject property.
   (viii) Outdoor parking of vehicles used with the minor home occupation and/or home
office shall not exceed a maximum of two motorized vehicles and two non- motorized vehicles such as
trailers or flatbeds.  The operation of these vehicles on the minor home occupat ion and/or home office
property shall be limited to persons who qualify as workers of the minor home occupation and/or home
office under LC 16.290(2)(h)(i) above and shall not involve more than three trips per day from and to the
minor home occupation and/or home office property.
   (ix) Use of buildings or structures for the minor home occupation shall not involve
the manufacturing, processing, generation or storage of materials that constitute a high fire, explosion or
health hazard as defined by Section 307 of the Oregon Structural Specialty Code.
   (x) The Building Official shall determine if a building plan review application is
necessary and shall issue a report with the determination.  Any required building permits and certificates of
occupancy shall be obtained by the operator prior to operation of the minor home occupation.

May 2026 16-754
  (i) Raising and harvesting crops or the feeding, breeding and management of livestock,
poultry or fur bearing animals, including structures for these uses.  Animals and bees shall not exceed the
following numbers per each acre of the subject RR zoned property:
   (i) One horse, cow or swine per acre not including offspring younger than 6 months
old from one of the female animals being counted; or
   (ii) One goat, sheep, llama or alpaca per half acre not including offspring younger
than 6 months old from one of the female animals being counted.  The number of llamas or alpacas per acre
may be increased to 4 llamas or alpacas per acre for every acre in the lot or parcel above 2 acres; or
   (iii) 85 chickens, other fowl or rabbits per acre.
   (iv) The number of colonies of bees allowed on a property shall be limited to one
colony for each 10,000 square feet of lot area and shall be located no closer than 50 feet from any property
line.
  (j) No more than eight dogs over six months in age on any tract subject to compliance
with the following conditions:
   (i) No more than two dogs shall be used for breeding.
   (ii) The tract where the dogs are located shall not be used as a place of business
where dogs are boarded, or where dogs are bred or sold, or where dogs receive medical care.
  (k) Fish and wildlife habitat management.
  (l) Forest uses, including the propagation and harvesting of forest products grown on the
property or a primary processing facility.  The "primary processing of a forest product" means the use of a
portable chipper, stud mill or other similar equipment for the initial treatment of a forest product, to facilitate
its shipment for further processing or its use on the subject property.  "Forest products" means timber and
other resources grown upon the land or contiguous units of RR zoned land where the prima ry processing
facility is located.
  (m) Roadside stand for the sale of any agricultural produce where more than one half of
the gross receipts result from the sale of produce grown on the tract where the roadside stand is located.
  (n) Public and semipublic buildings, structures and uses rendering direct service to the
public in local areas, such as fire stations, utility substations, pump stations and wells.
  (o) Maintenance, repair, or replacement of lawfully (per LC Chapter 16) existing uses and
development not authorized elsewhere by LC 16.290.
  (p) The outdoor operation of motorized vehicles, motorized recreational devices or the
discharging of firearms when performed primarily by persons who reside in the dwelling, or relatives of
the persons who reside in the dwelling, and located on the tract whe re the uses occur.  `Relative' means
grandparent, grandchild, parent, child, brother, sister, aunt, uncle, niece or nephew.  These outdoor
recreational uses shall comply with LC 6.225 PROHIBITED NOISE for prohibited noise.
  (q) Transportation facilities and uses as specified in LC 16.265(3)(a) through (m).
  (r) The conversion of a lawfully existing dwelling to an accessory residential guesthouse
that complies with these requirements:
   (i) The dwelling for the conversion shall be a lawful dwelling existing on the date
of the adoption of this requirement;
   (ii) The kitchen sink and cooking facilities shall be removed from the existing
dwelling and not replaced.  When, the kitchen sink is removed, the plumbing shall be capped- off at the
wall, and the kitchen sink shall not be replaced.  When the cooking facilities are removed, the power source
shall be removed.  Any 220 circuits used for the cooking facilities shall be disconnected at the circuit box
and approval of any required electrical permits for the disconnection shall be obtained, and the electrical
circuit and cooking facilities shall not be replaced.  Except for a bathroom and/or a laundry sink, a sink or
cooking facilities shall not be located elsewhere in the guest house structure;
   (iii) The address shall be removed from the guesthouse and not replaced;
   (iv) The property owner shall record a covenant with the Lane County Clerk
disclosing that a kitchen sink or cooking facilities cannot be placed in the guest house and that it is an

May 2026 16-755
accessory residential use that cannot be separated from the remainder of the parcel that contains the
dwelling; and
  (s) Rock, sand, gravel or loam excavation or extraction if the materials excavated or
extracted are used solely on the subject property and are not offered for sale or remuneration
  (t) Residential Accessory Structures and Uses.  Uses and development that are accessory
to uses and development allowed by LC 16.290(2) above or (3) through (4) below such as, but not limited
to: outdoor recreation, garages, storerooms and utility spaces, sheds, playhouses, greenhouses, hobby shop,
and animal or pet shelters
  (u) Guest House or Accessory Residential Structure.  A structure that contains area for
residential use or occupancy, that includes a toilet or bathroom, and that complies with these requirements:
   (i) The total floor area of the structure is no more than 850 square feet;
   (ii) The structure does not contain a kitchen.
   (iii) The structure is located on a lot or parcel that has a lawfully existing dwelling or
duplex on it and that does not have two or more permanent dwellings, a guest house or another accessory
residential structure on it;
   (iv) Sewage disposal for the structure is connected to the same onsite sewage
disposal system, or community or public sewer connection, and the same electrical meter as the existing
dwelling  on the same lot or parcel; and
   (v) The structure shall not have an address.
  (v) Not more than one (1) accessory dwelling unit on a lot or parcel, consisting of at least
2 acres and meeting the standards of LC 16.290(8).  The provisions of LC 16.290(2)(u) above do not apply
to accessory dwelling units, as allowed by this subsection and LC 16.290(8).
(w)  Not more than one (1) recreational vehicle used for residential purposes on a lot or
parcel that is subject to a residential rental agreement and meets the standards of LC 16.290(9).

 (3) Home Occupation.  A home occupation is allowed subject to: prior submittal and approval
of a land use application pursuant to Type II procedures of LC Chapter 14 ; and compliance of the home
occupation with the requirements of LC 16.290(3)(b) through (f) below and where applicable elsewhere in
LC Chapter 16.
  (a) The purposes of LC 16.290(3) are:
   (i) To provide rural property owners with opportunities to work at home and to
operate home occupation on their Rural Residential zoned land;
   (ii) To assure that the operation of home occupation will be compatible with nearby
uses;
   (iii) To recognize the uniqueness of each home occupation including its nature and
scope, the characteristics of the development site and nearby property, and the impacts that it may have on
the development site and nearby properties; and
   (iv) To comply with Statewide Planning Goal 14 by requiring more intensive
commercial and industrial uses to locate in areas appropriately planned and zoned for these uses.
  (b) It shall be operated by a resident of the subject property.
  (c) It shall employ or contract on the subject property no more than five full or part -time
persons.  The operator shall be considered as one of the five employees.
  (d) It shall be operated substantially in the dwelling or other buildings normally associated
with uses allowed by LC 16.290(2) above.  Any structure that would not otherwise be allowed by LC
16.290(2) above shall not be allowed for use as a home occupation.  LC 16.290(3)(d) above shall be
implemented, in part, through compliance with these requirements:
   (i) "Operated substantially in" means indoors except accessory home occupation
uses that are normally located outdoors such as: advertising signs for the home occupation; roads or
driveways for ingress and egress; areas for loading or unloading business vehic les; customer or employee

May 2026 16-756
parking spaces; parking for vehicles operated as part of the home occupation; screened storage areas; and
outdoor accessory uses similar to the above as determined by the Approval Authority.
   (ii) To determine if a structure is one that would not otherwise be permitted by LC
16.290(2) above, the external and internal structure shall be examined.  If a home occupation requires a
special structure within which to operate that is not useable, without significant alteration, for other uses
allowed by LC 16.290(2), then the home occupation shall not be allowed.
   (iii) The amount of building floor area of home occupation shall not exceed:
    (aa) 3,000 square feet for any parcel or lot located outside an unincorporated
community; or
    (bb) 4,000 square feet for any parcel or lot located inside an unincorporated
community.
  (e) It shall not interfere with existing uses permitted by LC Chapter 16 on nearby land or
with other uses allowed by LC 16.290(2) above on nearby parcels without residences.  Compliance with
LC 16.290(3)(e) above shall include, but shall not necessarily be limited to, addressing the compatibility of
these home occupation operation concerns:
   (i) The number of business, service and customer vehicles and the adequacy of
roads, driveways and parking for these vehicles;
   (ii) Buffering or screening of outdoor storage allowed under LC 16.290(3)(d)(i)
above;
   (iii) Fire safety;
   (iv) The hours of operation;
   (v) Any noise or odors;
   (vi) Outdoor lighting; and
   (vii) Appropriate handling of chemicals or substances that may be dangerous or
harmful to the environment.
  (f) Approval of applications for home occupations are valid until December 31 of the year
following the year that the application was initially approved.  Prior to the expiration of the December 31
approval date, the property owner or applicant who received t he approval shall provide the Director with
written request for renewal of approval for the home occupation and written information.  The Director
shall determine if the home occupation has been operated in compliance with the conditions of approval.
Home occupations that continue to be operated in compliance with the conditions of approval will receive
a two-year extension of the approval.  Home occupations for which a request for renewal of approval has
not been received or which do not comply with the conditions of approval shall not be renewed by the
Director.  The Director shall provide the applicant with written notice of a decision to not renew the
approval in accordance with Type II notice of decision procedures of LC Chapter 14.  The applicant  may
appeal the Director's decision to the Hearings Official in accordance with LC 14.080.
 (4) Uses and Development Subject to Approval by the Director.  The uses and developments in
LC 16.290(4)(a) through (s) and (u) below are allowed subject to: prior submittal and approval of a land
use application pursuant to Type II procedures of LC Chapter 14 ; and compliance with the applicable
requirements of LC 16.290(5) below and elsewhere in LC Chapter 16.
  (a) Feeding, breeding and management of livestock, poultry, or fur bearing animals in
excess of the standards in LC 16.290(2)(i) above.
  (b) Not more than one group care home on a lot or parcel and in a dwelling, manufactured
dwelling or duplex allowed by LC 16.290(2)(a) through (c) above.  A "group care home" is any home or
institution maintained and operated for the care, boarding, housing or training of six or more physically,
mentally or socially handicapped persons or delinquent or dependent persons by any person who is not the
parent or guardian of and who is not related by blood, marriage or legal adoption to such persons.  The
occupancy of the dwelling for a group care home shall comply with the requirements of the building code
as defined in ORS 455.010(8) and administered in ORS 455.150 and .153.
  (c) Not more than one nursing home on a lot or parcel and in a dwelling, manufactured
dwelling or duplex allowed by LC 16.290(2)(a) through (c) above.  A "nursing home" is any home, place

May 2026 16-757
or institution which operates and maintains facilities providing convalescent or chronic care, or both, which
exceeds that permitted for a residential home by LC 16.290(2)(f) above.  The occupancy of the dwelling
for a nursing home shall comply with the requirements of the building code as defined in ORS 455.010(8)
and administered in ORS 455.150 and .153.
  (d) Telecommunication facilities, including towers, antennas, and ancillary facilities as
allowed pursuant to LC 16.264.
  (e) Radio and television transmission facilities.
  (f) Dams, water storage facilities; power generation or transmission facilities; electric
transmission lines which require a right-of-way of 25 feet in width or wider; canals, flumes and pipelines;
flood control facilities and irrigation projects.
  (g) An onsite sewage disposal system for a non -residential use on a nearby property in a
rural zone.
  (h) A replacement of a lawfully existing (per LC Chapter 16) dwelling, manufactured
dwelling or duplex that relies on evidence of its lawfully existing nature other than required by LC
16.290(2)(b) above, or a replacement dwelling, manufactured dwelling or duplex that shall comply with
the following requirements:
   (i) The dwelling, manufactured dwelling or duplex was removed or destroyed
within 12 months of the date that the Director received the special use permit application for its replacement;
   (ii) Prior to the removal of the dwelling, manufactured dwelling or duplex, it was a
lawfully existing dwelling, manufactured dwelling or duplex; and
   (iii) The replacement dwelling, manufactured dwelling or duplex shall be located on
the same foundation footprint as the removed or destroyed dwelling, manufactured dwelling or duplex or
shall be located in compliance with LC 16.290(7) below.
  (i) Animal hospitals.  An "animal hospital" is a place where animals or pets are given
medical or surgical treatment and the boarding of animals is limited to short term care incidental to hospital
use.  The square foot floor area of an animal hospital shall not exceed 4,000 square feet for any parcel
located in an unincorporated community or 3,000 square feet for any parcel located outside of an
unincorporated community.
  (j) Commercial breeding kennel or commercial kennel.  A "commercial breeding kennel"
is a place of business for the breeding and/or selling of dogs.  A "commercial kennel" is a place of business
where dogs are boarded.  No more than two dogs shall be used for breeding.  These terms are not intended
to include an animal hospital or a noncommercial kennel.
  (k) Campgrounds and camping vehicle parks.  A "campground" is an area designed for
short-term recreational purposes and where facilities, except commercial activities such as grocery stores
and laundromats, are provided to accommodate that use.  Space for ten ts, campers, recreational vehicles
and motor homes are allowed and permanent open-air shelters (Adirondacks) may be provided on the site
by the owner of the development.  A "camping vehicle park" is a development designed primarily for
transient service on which travel trailers, pickup campers, tent trailers and self-propelled motorized vehicles
are parked and used for the purpose of supplying to the public a temporary location while traveling,
vacationing or recreating.  Campgrounds and camping vehicle parks:
   (i) Shall be located at least:
    (aa) 10 miles from the urban growth boundary of any city adjacent to Interstate
Highway 5, or
    (bb) 3 miles from any other urban growth boundary unless they are contiguous
to or located on lands with an accessible park or other outdoor amenity; and
   (ii) Shall not allow overnight temporary use in the same campground by a camper
or camper's vehicle exceeding a total of 30 days during any consecutive 6 month period; and
   (iii) Shall not exceed the carrying capacity of the soil or existing water supply
resources or result in public health hazards or adverse environmental impacts that violate state or federal
water quality regulations.

May 2026 16-758
  (l) Cemeteries.  A "cemetery" is land used or intended to be used for the burial of the dead
and dedicated for cemetery purposes, including columbariums and mausoleums when operated in
conjunction with and within the boundary of such cemetery but not including crematoriums or mortuaries,
  (m) Churches.  A "church" is a building, together with its accessory buildings and uses,
where persons regularly assemble for worship, and which building, together with its accessory buildings
and uses, is maintained and controlled by a religious body organiz ed to sustain public worship.  A church
does not include a school.
  (n) Golf courses.
  (o) Lodges and grange halls that:
   (i) are owned by a governmental agency or a nonprofit community organization and
operated primarily by and for residents of the local rural area; or
   (ii) do not contain more than 4,000 square feet if located in an unincorporated
community or not more than 3,000 square feet if located outside an unincorporated community.
  (p) Parks, playgrounds, community centers.
  (q) Public and private schools.  A "school" is a place or institution for learning and
teaching in which regularly scheduled and suitable instruction meeting the standards of the Oregon State
Board of education is provided.
  (r) Storage facilities for boats and recreational vehicles.
  (s) Uses and development similar to uses and development allowed by LC16.290(2) or (4)
above if found by the Planning Director to be clearly similar to the uses and development allowed by LC
16.290(2) through (4) above.  Such a finding shall be made by the Di rector and shall comply with the
following criteria:
   (i) The proposed use and development shall be consistent with the purpose in LC
16.290(1).
   (ii) When compared with the uses and development permitted by LC 16.290(2) or
(4) above, the proposed use and development is similar to one or more of these uses and development.  A
comparison shall include an analysis of the:
    (aa) Goods or services traded from the site;
    (bb) Bulk, size, and operating characteristics of the proposed use;
    (cc) Parking demand, customer types and traffic generation; and
    (dd) Intensity of land use of the site.
   (iii) The proposed use and development shall not exceed the carrying capacity of the
soil or of the existing water supply resources and sewer service.  To address this requirement, factual
information shall be provided about any existing or proposed sewer or wa ter systems for the site and the
site's ability to provide on-site sewage disposal and water supply if a community water or sewer system is
not available.
   (iv) The proposed use and development shall not result in public health hazards or
adverse environmental impacts that violate state or federal water quality regulations.
   (v) It shall be the applicant's responsibility to provide sufficient information to allow
the Director to make the above determination.
   (t) Transportation facilities and uses as specified in LC 16.265(3)(n) through (q).
   (u) Stables, riding academies or commercial riding.
 (5) Approval Criteria.  Uses and development in LC 16.290(4)(a) through (s) and (u) above,
except for telecommunication facilities allowed in LC 16.290(4)(d) above, shall comply with the
requirements in LC 16.290(5) below.  Telecommunications facilities allowed by LC 16.290(4)(d) above
shall comply with the requirements in LC 16.264.
  (a) Shall not create significant adverse impacts on existing uses on adjacent and nearby
lands or on uses permitted by the zoning of adjacent or nearby undeveloped lands;
  (b) Where necessary, measures are taken to minimize potential negative impacts on
adjacent and nearby lands;

May 2026 16-759
  (c) The proposed use and development shall not exceed the carrying capacity of the soil
or of the existing water supply resources and sewer service.  To address this requirement, factual
information shall be provided about any existing or proposed sewer or wa ter systems for the site and the
site's ability to provide on-site sewage disposal and water supply if a community water or sewer system is
not available; and
  (d) The proposed use and development shall not result in public health hazards or adverse
environmental impacts that violate state or federal water quality regulations.
 (6) Area.  The creation of new lots and parcels shall comply with LC Chapter 13 and with the
following requirements:
  (a) For RR zoned areas that are located inside developed and committed areas and outside
the boundaries of areas designated by the RCP as unincorporated communities, the minimum area
requirement for the creation of lots or parcels for residential purposes shall be 2, 5 or 10 acres as indicated
by the Lane County Zoning Maps; provided, however, that the minimum area requirement for the creation
of lots or parcels for residential purposes on land zoned RR -1 shall be two acres as long as required by
LCDC rules.  An exception to this area requirement may be made pursuant to LC 16.290(6)(c) below.
  (b) For RR zoned areas that are located inside the boundaries of areas designated by the
RCP as unincorporated communities, the minimum area requirement for the creation of lots or parcels for
residential purposes shall be 1, 2, 5 acres, or one acre additions to these acre minimums as required by the
Lane County Zoning Maps.  An exception to this area requirement may be pursuant to LC 16.290(6)(c)
below.
  (c) The creation of new parcels smaller than the minimum area required by LC
16.290(6)(a) and (b) above may be allowed if all of these conditions exist:
   (i) The parcel to be divided contains less than the minimum area needed by LC
16.290(6)(a) or (b) above to divide it and, after October 4, 2000, was not reduced in area by a boundary
line adjustment to below the area needed to divide it;
   (ii) The parcel to be divided has two or more lawful (not in violation of LC Chapter
16) and permanent habitable dwellings or manufactured dwellings or duplexes on it;
   (iii) The permanent habitable dwellings, manufactured dwellings on the parcel were
established before October 4, 2000;
   (iv) Each new parcel created by the partition would have at least one of those
permanent habitable dwellings or manufactured dwellings on it;
   (v) The partition would not create any vacant parcels where a new dwelling or
manufactured dwelling could be established; and
   (vi) "Habitable dwelling" means a dwelling, that:
    (aa) Has intact exterior walls and roof structure;
    (bb) Has indoor plumbing consisting of a kitchen sink, toilet and bathing
facilities connected to a sanitary waste disposal system;
    (cc) Has interior wiring for interior lights; and
    (dd) Has a heating system.
 (7) Property Development Standards .  All uses or development permitted by LC 16.290(2)
through (4) above, except as may be provided therein, shall comply with the following development
standards:
  (a) Property Line Setbacks.  Structures other than a fence or sign shall be located:
   (i) At least 20 feet from the right- of-way of a State road, County road or a local
access public road specified in LC Chapter 15;
   (ii) At least 10 feet from all other property lines; and
   (ii) Notwithstanding LC 16.290(7)(a)(ii) above, a structure that contains less  than
120 square feet of floor area and that is located more than 10 feet from other structures may be located in
the 10 foot setback otherwise required by LC 16.290(7)(a)(ii) above  provided it complies with LC
16.290(7)(d) below.

May 2026 16-760
  (b) The setback for property lines other than front -yard shall be five feet, except as
provided below, for any lot or parcel containing less than 1 acre and created prior to March 30, 1984.
  (c) For mobile homes to be located in lawfully existing mobile home parks, the setbacks
from a projected or existing right -of-way of a County or local -access public road shall be the same as
required above, and lesser setbacks from all other mobile home lot lines are permitted if in compliance with
Oregon Administrative Rules, Chapters 918-600 =.
  (d) Riparian Setback Area.  Except for property located between the Eugene -Springfield
Metropolitan Area General Plan Boundary and the Eugene and Springfield Urban Growth Boundaries,
where setbacks are provided for in LC 16.253(9), the riparian setback area shall be the area between a line
50 feet above and parallel to the ordinary high water of a Class I stream designated for riparian vegetation
protection in the Rural Comprehensive Plan.  No structure other than a fence shall be located closer than
50 feet from the ordinary high water of a Class I stream designated for riparian vegetation protection by the
Rural Comprehensive Plan.  Alternative standards to permit a structure in the riparian setback area may be
allowed provided the requirements of LC 16.253(6) or LC 16.253(9), as applicable, are met.
  (e) Maintenance, Removal and Replacement of Indigenous Vegetation within the Riparian
Setback Area.  Maintenance, removal and replacement of indigenous vegetation within the riparian setback
area designated for riparian vegetation protection by the comprehens ive plan must comply with the
provisions of LC 16.253(5) or LC 16.253(9), as applicable.
  (f) Height.  None.
  (g) Signs.
   (i) Signs shall not extend over a public right-of-way or project beyond the property
line.
   (ii) Signs shall not be illuminated or capable of movement
   (iii) Signs shall be limited to 200 square feet in area.
  (h) Parking.  Off street parking shall be provided in accordance with LC 16.250.
 (8) Rural Accessory Dwelling Units.
  (a) Purpose. The provisions of this section are intended to implement state law authorizing
the development of accessory dwelling units (ADUs) to provide additional housing opportunities on rural
lands and to encourage the preservation of historic housing stock.
  (b) Definitions. For the purposes of LC 16.290(8), unless otherwise specifically provided,
certain words, terms, and phrases are defined as follows:
   (i) “Accessory dwelling unit” (ADU) means a residential structure that is used in
connection with or that is auxiliary to a single-family dwelling.
   (ii) “Area zoned for rural residential use” means lands that are zoned Rural
Residential (RR, RCP), not located inside an urban growth boundary as defined in ORS 195.060, and that
are subject to an acknowledged exception to a statewide land use planning goal r elating to farmland or
forestland and planned and zoned by the county to allow residential use as a primary use.
   (iii) “Historic home” means a single-family dwelling constructed between 1850 and
1945.
   (iv) “New” means that the dwelling being constructed did not previously exist in
residential or nonresidential form. “New” does not include the acquisition, alteration, renovation or
remodeling of an existing structure.
   (v) “Single-family dwelling” means a residential structure designated as a residence
for one family and sharing no common wall with another residence of any type.
   (vi) “Usable floor area” means the area included within the surrounding insulated
exterior walls of a structure, exclusive of attached garages, carports, decks, stairs, porch covers, or similar
appurtenances.
   (vii) “Vacation occupancy” means occupancy in a dwelling unit, not including
transient occupancy in a hotel or motel, that has all of the following characteristics:
    (aa) The occupant rents the unit for vacation purposes only, not as a principal
residence;

May 2026 16-761
    (bb) The occupant has a principal residence other than at the unit; and
    (cc) The period of authorized occupancy does not exceed 45 days.
  (c) Criteria for ADUs. A lot or parcel may qualify for one (1) ADU pursuant to the criteria
under either subsection (xi) or (xii) below and provided:
   (i) The lot or parcel is at least two acres in size;
   (ii) At least one single-family dwelling is sited on the lot or parcel;
   (iii) The lot or parcel is not located within an urban reserve area, consistent with ORS
195.137;
   (iv) The ADU complies with all applicable laws and regulations relating to sanitation
and wastewater disposal and treatment; and,
   (v) The ADU must comply with the property development standards of LC
16.290(7).
   (vi) A subdivision, partition or other division of the lot or parcel so that the existing
single-family dwelling is situated on a different lot or parcel than the ADU may not be approved.
   (vii) Only one ADU as defined by LC 16.290(8)(b)(i) and allowed by LC
16.290(2)(v) is allowed on a qualifying lot or parcel.
   (viii) ADUs may be allowed subject to submittal of a Type I application pursuant to
the procedures of LC Chapter 14.
   (ix) The provisions of LC 16.290(8) do not apply to guest houses or accessory
residential structures, as allowed by LC 16.290(2)(u).
   (x) ADUs located on lots or parcels within the boundaries of an area designated by
the Rural Comprehensive Plan as being an unincorporated community must have an adequate supply of
water. If the lot or parcel is served by an individual water supply system, the system must meet the standards
of Lane Manual 9.005.160, or if served by a public or community water system, the applicant must submit
evidence that the service agency is mutually bound and able to serve the development.
   (xi) An ADU in the rural residential zone is allowed subject to LC 16.290(8)(c)(i)
through (x) and must meet all of the following standards:
    (aa) The ADU will be located no farther than 100 feet from the existing single-
family dwelling, measured from a wall of the single-family dwelling to the nearest part of the usable floor
area of the ADU.
    (bb) The ADU will not include more than 900 square feet of usable floor area
as defined by LC 16.290(8)(b)(vi).
    (cc) The existing single-family dwelling on the lot or parcel is not subject to an
order declaring it a nuisance or subject to any pending action under ORS 105.550 to 105.600.
    (dd) The lot or parcel on which the ADU is located is served by a fire protection
district that complies with ORS 181A.410.
    (ee) The applicant provides written certification from the applicable fire
district, on a form prepared by Lane County, that access to the property meets minimum fire district
requirements to provide emergency services to the property.
    (ff) The applicant provides an evacuation plan that arranges for safe
evacuation and identifies staged evacuation areas. As used in this section, “safe evacuation” means an
identified route for evacuation from the ADU to the staged evacuation area. “Staged evacuation area” means
a public or private location that occupants of the ADU may evacuate to.
     (A) The applicant must provide written authorization from the owner of
the staged evacuation area that the occupants of the ADU may evacuate to that location.
     (B) A determination by the County that an evacuation plan meets the
requirements of LC 16.290(8)(c)(xi)(ff) above is not a certification that the plan provides for safe
evacuation and is not a certification of the safety of the identified staged evacuation areas. The County does
not warrant or guarantee the effectiveness of any proposed evacuation plan and cannot be held liable in the
event of property damage, injury, or death that may occur when an evacuation plan is used or followed.

May 2026 16-762
    (gg) No portion of the lot or parcel is within a designated area of critical state
concern as defined in Oregon Administrative Rule 660-043.
    (hh) If the water supply source for the ADU or associated lands or gardens will
be a well using water under ORS 537.545 (1)(b) or (d), no portion of the lot or parcel is within an area in
which new or existing ground water uses under ORS 537.545 (1)(b) or (d) have been restricted by the Water
Resources Commission.
    (ii) The applicant signs and records a restrictive covenant with Lane County
Deeds and Records stating that the ADU allowed under this section will not be used for vacation occupancy,
as defined by LC 16.290(8)(b)(vii).
    (jj) An existing single-family dwelling and an ADU allowed under this section
are considered a single unit for the purposes of calculating exemptions under ORS 537.545(1).
    (kk) The accessory dwelling unit complies with the construction provisions of
section R327 of the Oregon Residential Specialty Code, if:
     (A) The lot or parcel is in an area identified as a high wildfire hazard
zone on the statewide wildfire hazard map described in ORS 477.490; or
     (B)  No statewide wildfire hazard map has been adopted.
    (ll) If the lot or parcel is in an area identified on the statewide wildfire hazard
map described in ORS 477.490 as within the wildland urban interface, the lot or parcel and ADU must
comply with the defensible space requirements for wildfire risk reducti on established by the State Fire
Marshal under ORS 476.392 and any applicable local requirements for defensible space established by the
local government pursuant to ORS 476.392.
   (xii) Conversion of a historic home to an ADU in the rural residential zone is allowed
subject to LC 16.290(8)(c)(i) through (x) and provided:
    (aa) The owner of a lot or parcel within an area zoned for rural residential use
constructs a new single-family dwelling;
    (bb) A historic home, as defined by LC 16.290(8)(b)(iii), is sited on the lot or
parcel;
    (cc) The owner converts the historic home to an ADU upon completion of the
new single-family dwelling; and,
    (dd) ADUs established pursuant to LC 16.290(8)(c)(xii) may not be:
     (A) Altered, renovated, or remodeled so that the usable floor area of the
ADU is more than 120 percent of the historic home’s usable floor area at the time construction of the new
single-family dwelling commenced.
     (B) Rebuilt if the structure is deemed a dangerous building due to fire,
pursuant to the Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, which defines “dangerous
building” as “Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake, wind, flood or by any
other cause, to such an extent that the structural strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was
before such catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements of the Building Code for new buildings
of similar structure, purpose or location.”  The applicant must sign and record with Lane County Deeds and
Records a restrictive covenant stating that an ADU allowed under this section cannot be rebuilt if deemed
a dangerous building as described in this section.
(Revised by Ordinance No. 6-02, Effective 5.16.02; 10-04, 6.4.04; 5-
04, 7.1.04; 6-10, 9.18.10; 7-12, 12.28.12; 14-09, 12.16.14; 15-03, 04.17.15; 20-05, 6.16.20; 23-05, 8.29.23)

 (9) Rental Recreational Vehicles.
  (a) Purpose. The provisions of this section are intended to implement state law by allowing
a recreational vehicle (RV) on rural residential lands to be used as a residential dwelling subject to a
residential rental agreement.
  (b) Definitions. For the purposes of LC 16.290(9), unless otherwise specifically provided,
certain words, terms, and phrases are defined as follows:

May 2026 16-763
   (i) “Recreational vehicle” means a vehicle with or without motive power that has
not been rendered structurally immobile, is used for human occupancy, is titled with the Department of
Transportation, and satisfies OAR 735-022-0140(7)(a), (b), (c), or (d).
  (c) Criteria for Rental Recreational Vehicles.
   (i) To qualify for a recreational vehicle as a rental dwelling on a lot or parcel, the
following criteria must be met:
     (aa) The lot or parcel is not located within an urban reserve area, consistent
with ORS 195.137;
    (bb) The lot or parcel is developed with a lawfully established single family
dwelling that is occupied as the primary residence of the property owner;
    (cc) There are no other dwelling units on the lot or parcel, including temporary
medical hardship dwellings, and no portion of the single family dwelling is rented as a residential tenancy;
    (dd) The recreational vehicle may not be located in the regulatory floodplain,
as defined in Lane Code 16.244;
    (ee) The lot or parcel is not subject to an open code enforcement action, unless
the code infraction can be remedied through the approval of a recreational vehicle permit pursuant to this
section; and
    (ff) If the lot or parcel is within the boundaries of an area designated by the
Rural Comprehensive Plan as being an unincorporated community, the applicant must demonstrate
adequate supply of water to support the recreational vehicle. If the lot or parcel is served by an individual
water supply system, the system must meet the standards of Lane Manual 9.005.160, or if served by a public
or community water system, the applicant must submit evidence that the service agency is mutually bound
and able to serve the development.
   (ii) Prior to establishing a recreational vehicle as a rental dwelling on a lot or parcel,
the property owner must demonstrate compliance with the following standards:
    (aa) The property owner must sign and record a restrictive covenant with Lane
County Deeds and Records stating that the rental recreational vehicle allowed under this section will not be
used for vacation occupancy, as defined by LC 16.290(8)(b)(vii), or other short-term uses;
    (bb) The recreational vehicle is owned or leased by the tenant throughout the
entire term of the tenancy;
    (cc) The recreational vehicle must be fully licensed and ready for highway use,
on its wheels or jacking system, attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security
devices, and must have no permanently attached additions;
    (dd) The property owner must enter into a written residential rental agreement
with the tenant of the recreational vehicle and must be valid throughout the entire term of the tenancy;
    (ee) The property owner must provide services to the recreational vehicle space
including:
     (A) Sewage disposal, water supply, electrical supply, and if required by
applicable law, any drainage system; and
     (B) Any other service or habitability obligation imposed by the rental
agreement and ORS 90.730 (Landlord duty to maintain rented space, vacant spaces and common areas in a
habitable condition), the lack or violation of which creates a serious threat to the t enant’s health, safety or
property or makes the rented space unfit for occupancy.
     (C) The recreational vehicle must contain an operable toilet and sink, or
the property owner must provide these facilities to the tenant and the facilities must be accessible to the
tenant at all times.
     (D) The property owner must obtain any necessary permits for the
installation of services and adhere to any applicable codes.
    (ff) The property owner must provide a parking pad for the recreational vehicle
with a surface material of compacted gravel, concrete or asphalt, and the surface must be sloped to facilitate
drainage of liquids away from the recreational vehicle;
16.291 Lane Code 16.291

May 2026 16-764
    (gg) If the recreational vehicle will be located within a structure, the structure
must be entirely open on at least two sides;
    (hh)The recreational vehicle must be setback 10 feet from the single family
dwelling and other structures on the lot or parcel;
    (ii) The recreational vehicle must be setback at least 30 feet from properties
zoned F-1, F-2 or EFU; and
    (jj) The property owner may provide residential accessory structures and uses
for use by the tenant of the recreational vehicle as permitted by Lane Code 16.290(2)(t).  (Ordinance No. 25.01,
Effective 2.27.2025; 25-07. 5.5.26)

RURAL COMMERCIAL ZONE (RC, RCP)
RURAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN

16.291 Rural Commercial Zone (RC, RCP).
 (1) Purpose.  The purposes of the Rural Commercial Zone (RC, RCP) are: to implement the
policies of the Lane County Rural Comprehensive Plan (RCP), to allow commercial uses and development
that are consistent with Goal 14 and that are for the retail trade of products or services needed by rural
residents or by persons traveling through the rural area, and to provide protective measures for riparian
vegetation along Class I streams designated as significant in the Rural Comprehensive Plan.  LC 16.291 is
not retroactive.  The Director has no authority to initiate compliance with LC 16.291 for lawfully (per LC
Chapter 16) existing uses.
 (2) Permitted Uses and Development .  The uses and development in LC 16.291(2)(a) through
(k) below are allowed subject to compliance with the general provisions and exceptions specified by this
chapter of Lane Code and shall not be subject to compliance with the Site Review Procedures in LC 16.257.
  (a) Maintenance, repair or replacement of lawfully (per LC Chapter 16) existing uses and
development not authorized elsewhere by LC 16.291.
  (b) The uses and development allowed by LC 16.291(3)(a) through (w) , (y) through (z),
(a-a), (ee), (ff), and (gg) below with approval of a special use permit are otherwise allowed without approval
of a special use permit if they comply with these conditions:
   (i) The use and development shall not change the number, size or location of
existing commercial structures on the subject property, shall comply with the setback requirements of LC
16.291(6)(a) through (b) below, and shall not extend the commercial uses and development beyond the area
of the existing commercial uses and development.  The area of the existing commercial uses and
development shall include all existing structures and outside areas used for the commercial use such as
private drives, off street parking and loading areas, and outside storage areas; or
   (ii) The use and development shall be a minor addition to a commercial structure
that does not exceed 25 percent of the floor area of the structure that existed on the date that LC 16.291 was
applied to the subject property and shall not be closer to a property line than the closest portion of existing
commercial structures meeting the setbacks required by LC 16.291(6)(a) through (b) below.  To verify
compliance with these standards, the applicant shall submit to the Director an administrative applicatio n
for verification of compliance and the Director shall determine if the addition to a commercial structure
complies with these standards; or
   (iii) The use and development shall be located at least 200 feet from all exterior
boundaries of the subject property and shall meet the setbacks required by LC 16.291(6)(a) through (b)
below; or
   (iv) The proposed development is a sign that complies with LC 16.291(6)(d) below,
and is located on the wall of an existing building or is located outside the structural setback areas designated
by LC Chapters 15 and 16.
   (v) Structures permitted by LC 16.291(2)(b)(ii) and (iii) above shall comply with
the floor area and lot or parcel coverage requirements of LC 16.291(4)(a) below.
16.291 Lane Code 16.291

May 2026 16-765
  (c) Public and semi -public structures and uses rendering direct service to the public in
local areas such as utility substations, wells, underground utility lines that do not require a right -of way
more than 25 feet in width.  For utility substations or buildings that are located within 100 feet of the
boundaries of RR zoned property, native landscaping shall be provided between the utility substations or
buildings and abutting RR zoned property to screen the utility substations or buildings from the view of the
RR zoned property.  Landscaping required by LC 16.291(2)(c) above shall be maintained.
  (d) No more than eight dogs over six months in age on any tract subject to compliance
with the following conditions:
   (i) No more than two dogs shall be used for breeding.
   (ii) The tract where the dogs are located shall not be used as a place of business
where dogs are boarded, or where dogs are breed or sold, or where dogs receive medical care.
  (e) Fish and wildlife habitat management.
  (f) A single family living quarters for a caretaker that meets the following conditions:
   (i) The single family living quarters shall be for a caretaker in conjunction with an
existing commercial use permitted by LC 16.291(2)(a) through (b) above or (3)(a) through (w), (a-a) or (b-
b) below and located on the same lot or parcel as the existing commercial use;
   (ii) There shall not be any other living quarters or dwellings on the lot or parcel
where the single family living quarters for the caretaker will be located; and
   (iii) The living quarters shall be located in an existing structure or in an addition to
an existing structure.  Any required building permits and certificates of occupancy shall be obtained prior
to use of the structure as a single family living quarters.
  (g) A single family dwelling or manufactured dwelling in conjunction with an existing
commercial use provided there is no other dwelling or single family living quarters on the same lot or
parcel.
  (h) Transportation facilities and uses as specified in LC 16.265(3)(a) through (m).
  (i) Not more than one bed and breakfast accommodation on a lot or parcel and in a
lawfully existing dwelling or manufactured dwelling.  A bed and breakfast accommodation shall have no
more than five sleeping rooms provided on a daily or weekly period, not to exceed 29 consecutive days, for
the use of travelers or transients for a charge or fee.  Provision of a morning meal is customary as implied
by title.
  (j) Not more than one residential home on a lot or parcel and in a lawfully existing
dwelling or manufactured dwelling.  "Residential home" means a residential treatment or training or an
adult foster home licensed by or under the authority of the Department of Human Resources (DHR) under
ORS 443.400 through 443.825, a residential facility registered under ORS 443.480 to 443.500 or an adult
foster home licensed under ORS 443.705 to 443.825 which provides residential care alone or in conjunction
with treatment or training, or a combination thereof, for five or fewer individuals who need not be related.
Staff persons required to meet DHR licensing requirements shall not be counted in the number of facility
residents, and need not be related to each other or to any resident of the home.
  (k) Uses and development accessory to existing uses and development permitted by LC
16.291(2)(a) through (j) above or (3)(a) through (c-c) below.
 (3) Uses and Development Subject to Approval by the Director .  The uses and development in
LC 16.291(3)(a) through (t), and (v) and (z) below not meeting the conditions in LC 16.291(2)(b) above,
and the uses and development in LC 16.291(3)(w) through (y) and (a -a) through (b- b) below, may be
allowed subject to: prior submittal and approval of a land use application pursuant to Type II procedures of
LC Chapter 14; and compliance with the applicable land use requirements of LC 16.291(4)(a) through (j)
below and elsewhere in LC Chapter 16.  The uses and development in LC 16.291(3)(u) and (c -c) below,
may be allowed subject to: prior submittal and approval of a land use application pursuant to Type II
procedures of LC Chapter 14; and compliance with the applicable land use requirements elsewhere in LC
Chapter 16.
  (a) Retail trade of products, including: food, new general merchandise, second- hand
general merchandise in an enclosed building; and building materials, hardware or farm equipment.
16.291 Lane Code 16.291

May 2026 16-766
  (b) Retail trade of hay, grains or goods for animal consumption or care.
  (c) Retail trade of services, including: personal, finance, insurance, banking, real estate,
professional, and the construction trades including but not limited to general contracting, carpentry,
cabinetmaking, electrical, plumbing, and landscaping.
  (d) Restaurants.
  (e) Bars, nightclubs, taverns or brewpubs.
  (f) Civic, social and fraternal meeting places, and educational facilities and services such
as: nursery, primary and secondary education and special training schools such as those for vocations,
trades, arts, music, dancing, driving, gymnastics and correspondence.
  (g) Medical or veterinarian clinic.
  (h) Service stations and auto repair garages.
  (i) Bus passenger terminals.
  (j) Boat charter and rental, including fishing equipment.
  (k) Outdoor tourist attractions featuring displays of educational or historical value.
  (l) Day camp and picnic areas.
  (m) Indoor or outdoor recreational activities, including tennis courts, ice skating, roller
skating and roller blading, riding stables, bowling, skiing, snowboarding and tobogganing, play lots or tot
lots, playgrounds, game rooms, gymnasium, swimming pools, etc.
  (n) Indoor or outdoor theaters.
  (o) Post Office facilities.
  (p) Equipment rental and leasing service.
  (q) Recreational vehicle or boat storage, sales, repair and subordinate boat building that
comprises less building floor area than used for boat sales or rentals.
  (r) Marina.
  (s) Outdoor car or truck sales lots, indoor truck or auto repair, and not including the
outdoor storage of inoperable vehicles.
  (t) A commercial kennel or a commercial breeding kennel.  A "commercial kennel" is a
place of business where dogs are boarded.  No more than two dogs shall be used for breeding.  A
"commercial breeding kennel" is a place of business for the breeding and/or selling of dogs.
  (u) New motels or hotels with up to 35 units within an unincorporated rural community
designated in the Rural Comprehensive Plan, or new motels or hotels with up to 100 units within an urban
unincorporated community designated in the Rural Comprehensive Plan, that meet the following
conditions:
   (i) They are located at least 10 miles from the urban growth boundary of any city
adjacent to Interstate Highway 5; and
   (ii) They are served by a "community sewer system" that means, "A sewage disposal
system with connections to at least 15 permanent dwelling units, including manufactured homes, within the
unincorporated community."
  (v) A recreation vehicle park that may include individual electrical, water and sanitation
disposal system hookups.  A sanitation disposal system approved by DEQ or a centralized, pump-out vault
may be provided for off -loading in compliance with ORS.  The sta y limit for a recreational vehicle shall
not exceed 29 consecutive days or more than 90 days in any calendar year or consecutive six-month period.
  (w) Communication facilities including but not limited to those for radio, television,
computers, or satellites.
  (x) Telecommunication facilities, including towers, antennas, and ancillary facilities as
allowed pursuant to LC 16.264.
  (y) Electric transmission lines that require a combined right- of-way of more than 25 feet
in width.
  (z) Overnight accommodations that shall:
   (i) Have no more than 15 guest rooms in a single structure.  Food preparation and
service in a centralized kitchen may be provided for guests only.
16.291 Lane Code 16.291

May 2026 16-767
   (ii) Have only minor incidental and accessory retail sales;
   (iii) Be occupied only temporarily for the purpose:
    (aa) Of fishing during fishing seasons authorized by the Oregon Fish and
Wildlife Commission if located within ¼ mile of fish bearing Class I waters, or
    (bb) Of hunting during game bird and big game hunting seasons authorized by
the Oregon Fish and wildlife Commission; and
   (iv) The Approval Authority may impose appropriate conditions.
  (a-a) A short term stay facility for the homeless or transients that may include the provision
of food and clothing for those staying in or visiting the facility provided the facility shall:
   (i) Be operated by a nonprofit organization or public agency;
   (ii) Contain no more than five bedrooms or sleeping rooms; and
   (iii) Limit the stay for any individual to no more than 29 consecutive days.
  (b-b) Uses and development similar to uses and development allowed by LC16.291(3)(a)
through (a-a) above if found by the Director to be clearly similar to the uses and development allowed by
LC 16.291(3)(a) through (a-a) above.  Such a finding shall be made by the Director, and shall comply with
the following criteria:
   (i) The use and development shall be consistent with the purpose in LC 16.291(1)
above.
   (ii) When compared with the uses and development permitted by LC 16.291(3)(a)
through (a-a) above, the use and development shall be similar to one or more of these uses and development.
A comparison shall include an analysis of the:
    (aa) Goods or services traded from the site;
    (bb) Bulk, size, and operating characteristics of the proposed use and
development;
    (cc) Parking demand, customer types and traffic generation; and
    (dd) Intensity of land use of the site.
   (iii) The use and development shall not exceed the carrying capacity of the soil or of
existing water supply resources and sewer services.  Factual information shall be provided about any
existing or proposed sewer or water systems for the site and the site's a bility to provide on site sewage
disposal and water supply if a community sewer or water system is not available.
   (iv) The use and development shall not result in public health hazards or adverse
environmental impacts that violate state or federal water quality regulations.
   (v) The use and development shall not include factories, warehouses, freight
terminals, or wholesale distribution centers.
   (vi) The use and development shall comply with LC 16.291(4)(a) through (h) below.
   (vii) It shall be the applicant's responsibility to provide sufficient information to allow
the Director to make the above determination.
  (c-c) An expansion of a lawfully existing commercial use that shall:
   (i) Not result in more than a 50% increase in the total square foot floor area devoted
to the commercial use that existed on the subject lot or parcel when LC 16.291 became applicable to the
subject lot or parcel; or
   (ii) Not result in more than a 50% increase in the number of temporary overnight
accommodations that existed on the subject lot or parcel when LC 16.291 became applicable to the subject
lot or parcel; and
   (iii) Be used primarily by rural residents and/or tourists.
  (d-d) Transportation facilities and uses as specified in LC 16.265(3)(n) through (q).
(ee) Marijuana production, subject to Lane Code 16.420.  Only the Tier 1 level of
production, as licensed by the OLCC is allowed.  Only indoor marijuana production, as defined by state
law and regulated by OLCC is allowed.
(ff) Marijuana retail sales, subject to Lane Code 16.420.
(gg) Marijuana laboratory operations, subject to Lane Code 16.420.
16.291 Lane Code 16.291

May 2026 16-768
(hh) Marijuana processing, subject to Lane Code 16.420.
 (4) Criteria.  New uses or development allowed by LC 16.291(3)(a) through (t), (v) through (w),
(z), and (a-a) through (b-b), and (e-e) through (h-h) above, shall comply with the criteria in LC 16.291(4)
below.  Telecommunications facilities allowed by LC 16.291(3)(x) above shall comply with the
requirements in LC 16.264.
  (a) Floor Area and Lot or Parcel Coverage.  If located in an area designated by the RCP
as an unincorporated community, no one commercial building or combination of commercial buildings on
a lot or parcel within an urban unincorporated community shall contain more than 8,000 square feet of floor
area for the same commercial use; or, no one commercial building or combination of commercial buildings
on a lot or parcel in any other type of unincorporated community shall contain more than 4,000 square feet
of floor area for the same commercial use unless the conditions in LC 16.291(4)(a) below are met.  If not
located in an area designated by the RCP as an unincorporated community, no commercial building or
combination of commercial buildings on a lot or parce l shall contain more than 3,500 square feet of floor
area for the same commercial use unless the commercial building is used as a country store (a building used
primarily for the retail sale of groceries but containing at least 750 square feet of floor are a used for other
permitted commercial uses).  A country store located outside an area designated by the RCP as an
unincorporated community may contain a maximum of 3,750 square feet of floor area.  An exception to the
8,000, 4,000 or 3,500 commercial build ing square feet floor area requirement in LC 16.291(4)(a) above
may be allowed if it complies with these requirements:
   (i) The exception shall be adopted by ordinance as part of an amendment to the RCP
for a specific lot or parcel.
   (ii) The exception shall be for an expansion of up to 50% of the existing square feet
building floor area used for commercial uses.
   (iii) The existing and proposed commercial uses shall:
    (aa) Provide goods and services to primarily rural residents or persons traveling
through the area;
    (bb) Notwithstanding the small-scale commercial building floor area limits in
OAR 660-022-0030(10), comply with OAR 660- 022 (for commercial uses located inside unincorporated
communities) or with the Statewide Planning Goals (for commercial uses located outsid e unincorporated
communities); and
    (cc) Fit within the uses allowed by LC 16.291(2) and/or (3) above.
   (iv) No more than one exception pursuant to LC 16.291(4)(a) shall be allowed for
the same lot or parcel.
  (b) The location, design, size, shape and arrangement of the uses and structures shall be
sufficient for the proposed intent and compatible with the surrounding vicinity.
  (c) The quantity, location, height and materials of walls, fences, hedges, screen planting
and landscape areas shall serve their intended purpose and shall minimize any adverse effect on existing or
contemplated abutting land use.
  (d) Suitable planting of ground cover or other surfacing shall be provided to prevent
erosion and reduce dust, and suitable methods shall be provided for the continued maintenance of the
planting or surfacing.
  (e) The location, design and size of the uses shall be such that the residents or
establishments to be accommodated will be adequately served by community facilities and services or by
other facilities suitable for the intend uses.
  (f) Based on anticipated traffic generation, adequate additional right -of-way and road
improvements shall be provided by the development in order to address any traffic safety or congestion
concerns created by the development.  Consideration shall be given to the need and feasibility of widening
and improving abutting streets to specifications of LC Chapter 15, "Roads," and also to the necessity for
such additional requirements as lighting, sidewalks and turn and deceleration/acceleration lanes.
16.291 Lane Code 16.291

May 2026 16-769
  (g) There shall be a safe and efficient circulation pattern within the boundaries of the
development.  Consideration shall include the layout of the site with respect to the location and dimensions
of vehicular and pedestrian entrances, exits, drives, walkways, buildings and other related facilities.
  (h) There shall be adequate off street parking and loading/unloading facilities provided in
a safe and efficient manner.  Consideration shall include the layout of the parking and loading/unloading
facilities, and their surfacing, lighting and landscaping.
  (i) Hazards and Impacts.  The proposed use and development shall not result in public
health hazards or adverse environmental impacts that violate state or federal water quality regulations.
  (j) The proposed use and development shall not exceed the carrying capacity of the soil
or of the existing water supply resources and sewer service.  To address this requirement, factual
information shall be provided about any existing or proposed sewer or wa ter systems for the site and the
site's ability to provide on-site sewage disposal and water supply if a community water or sewer system is
not available.
 (5) Area.  No minimum is established, except what is necessary to accommodate any necessary
sewerage and potable water concerns.  Divisions shall comply with LC Chapter 13.
 (6) Property Development Standards.  All uses and development permitted by LC 16.291(2) and
(3) above shall comply with these development standards:
  (a) Property Line Setbacks.  Structures other than a fence or sign shall be located:
   (i) At least 20 feet from the right- of-way of a State road, County road or a local
access public road specified in LC Chapter 15; and
   (ii) At least 10 feet from all other property lines except as required in LC
16.291(6)(b) and (c) below.
  (b) Riparian Setback Area.  Except for property located between the Eugene -Springfield
Metropolitan Area General Plan Boundary and the Eugene and Springfield Urban Growth Boundaries,
where setbacks are provided for in LC 16.253(9), the riparian setback area shall be the area between a line
50 feet above and parallel to the ordinary high water of a Class I stream designated for riparian vegetation
protection in the Rural Comprehensive Plan.  No structure other than a fence shall be located closer than
50 feet from the ordinary high water of a Class I stream designated for riparian vegetation protection by the
Rural Comprehensive Plan.  Alternative standards to permit a structure in the riparian setback area may be
allowed provided the requirements of LC 16.253(6) or LC 16.253(9), as applicable, are met.
  (c) Maintenance, Removal and Replacement of Indigenous Vegetation within the Riparian
Setback Area.  Maintenance, removal and replacement of indigenous vegetation within the riparian setback
area designated for riparian vegetation protection by the comprehens ive plan must comply with the
provisions of LC 16.253(5) or LC 16.253(9), as applicable.
  (d) Signs.
   (i) Signs shall not extend over a public right-of-way or project beyond the property
line.
   (ii) Signs may be illuminated but shall not be flashing or capable of movement.
   (iii) Signs shall be limited to 100 square feet.
   (iv) Signs shall not project above the height of the tallest structure on the property.
  (e) Parking.  Off street parking shall be provided in accordance with LC 16.250.
 (Revised by
Ordinance No. 6- 02, Effective 5.16.02; 10- 04, 6.4.04; 11-04, 6.11.04; 5-04, 7.1.04; 7-12, 12.28.12; 15- 08, 12.15.15; 16-01,
2.25.16; 20-05, 6.16.20; 25-07. 5.5.26)

THIS SPACE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

16.291 Lane Code 16.291

May 2026 16-770

PAGES 16-769 THROUGH 16-860
ARE RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION