Lane Code
CHAPTER 16 CONTENTS

May 2026 16-i
CONSERVATION ESTUARY ZONE (CE-RCP) RURAL COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN
16.235 Conservation Estuary Zone (CE-RCP).
16.236 Development Estuary Zone (DE-RCP).
16.237 Significant Natural Shorelands Combining Zone (/SN-RCP).
16.235 Lane Code 16.235

May 2026 16-376 LC16.235_237
CONSERVATION ESTUARY ZONE (CE-RCP)
RURAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN

16.235 Conservation Estuary Zone (CE-RCP).
 (1) Purpose.  The purpose of the Conservation Estuary Zone CE -RCP is to
provide for the long-term use of the estuary’s renewable resources in ways which do not
require major alteration of the estuary.  Providing for recreational and aesthetic uses of
the estuarine resources as well as maintenance and restoration of biological productivity
are primary objectives in this zone.
 (2) Permitted Uses .  In the CE -RCP Zone, the following types of uses are
permitted as hereinafter specifically provided for by this section, subject to the general
provisions and exceptions set forth in this Chapter.
  (a)  Low-intensity, undeveloped recreation which is water dependent.
  (b) Scientific and educational observation.
  (c) Navigational aids, such as beacons and buoys.
  (d) Passive estuarine restoration measures.
  (e) Dredging necessary for on-site maintenance of existing functional
tidegates and associated drainage channels and bridge crossing support structures.
  (f) Natural resource preservation, including protection of habitat,
nutrient, fish, wildlife and aesthetic resources.
  (g) Rip-rap for protection of uses existing as of October 7, 1977, unique
natural resources, historical and archeological values and public facilities.
  (h) Bridge crossings.
  (i) Aquaculture which does not involve dredge or fill or other estuarine
alteration other than incidental dredging for harvest of benthic species or removable in-
water structures such as stakes or racks.
  (j) Communication facilities.
  (k) Active restoration of fish and wildlife habitat or water quality and
estuarine enhancement.
  (l) Boat ramps for public use where no dredging or fill for navigational
access is needed.
  (m) Pipelines, cables and utility crossings, including incidental dredging
necessary for their installation.
  (n) Installation of tidegates in existing functional dikes.
  (o) Bridge crossing support structures and dredging necessary for their
installation.
  (p) Noncommercial clamming and fishing.
  (q) Low-intensity grazing; provided the area is a high salt marsh and has
been so used within the 10 years prior to July 24, 1980.
  (r) Log storage; provided the storage occurs at sites under lease from
Division of State Lands on July 24, 1980 and provided all state and federal agency
requirements are met.
  (s)  The following transportation facilities and uses, provided no filling
or dredging is required:
   (i) Operations, maintenance, and repair as defined in LC 15.010
of existing transportation facilities, services, and improvements, including road, bicycle,
pedestrian, port, airport and rail facilities, and major regional pipelines and terminals.
   (ii) Preservation as defined in  LC 15.010, and rehabilitation
activities and projects as defined in LC 15.010 for existing transportation facilities,
services, and improvements, including road, bicycle, pedestrian, port, airport and rail
facilities, and major regional pipelines and terminals.
16.235 Lane Code 16.235

May 2026 16-377 LC16.235_237
 (3)  Special Uses Approved by the Director .  The following specified uses and
no others are permitted, subject to prior submittal and approval of an application pursuant
to Type II procedures of LC Chapter 14.  A Resource Capability Determin ation is
required as set forth in LC 16.248, except for major projects requiring an impact
assessment as set forth in LC 16.249.
  (a) (i) Uses.  Private single-family, single-purpose piers or docks.
   (ii) Criteria and Conditions.
    (aa) The use will have minimal adverse impact on natural
resources in the area affected by the proposed use.  The resources are as identified in the
Lane County Rural Comprehensive Plan.
    (bb) The use is compatible with requirements of adjacent
shorelands’ Rural Comprehensive Plan designation.
    (cc) The applicant attests in writing on a form provided by
the Planning Director that no alternatives to the proposed structure are feasible.
    (dd) The size and design of the structure is limited to that
required for the intended use.
  (b) (i) Uses.  New or expanded log storage sites not otherwise
provided for in LC 16.235(2)(r) above.
   (ii) Criteria and Conditions.
    (aa) Water storage is integral to continued operation of the
associated wood processing facility.
    (bb) There are no feasible upland alternatives.
    (cc) The log storage operation meets Department of
Environmental Quality Standards for log storage.
    (dd) The use is not proposed at sites which have long -
established use for public recreation such as a boat launching site or a marina site.
    (ee) Public need is demonstrated.
  (c) (i) Uses.
    (aa) Public docks and piers.
    (bb) Private multifamily docks and piers.
    (cc) Mooring buoys which are permanently anchored to
estuary floor.
    (dd) Dolphins.
   (ii) Criteria and Conditions.  The use will have minimal impact on
natural and recreational resources in the area affected by the proposed use.  The resources
are as identified in the Lane County Rural Comprehensive Plan.
  (d) (i) Uses.
    (aa) Boat launching ramps.
    (bb) Public beaches requiring estuarine modification.
    (cc) Minor dredging to improve navigability.
   (ii) Criteria and Conditions.
    (aa) An estuarine location is required.
    (bb) No alternative locations exist which are designated as
Development in the Lane County Rural Comprehensive Plan.
    (cc) Adverse impacts on resources are minimized.  These
resources are as identified in the Lane County Rural Comprehensive Plan.
    (dd) No alternative shoreland locations exist for the portions
of the use requiring fill.
    (ee) Public need is demonstrated.
  (e) (i) Uses.  Erosion control structure, in cluding, but not necessarily
limited to, seawalls, bulkheads, groins and jetties.
16.235 Lane Code 16.235

May 2026 16-378 LC16.235_237
   (ii) Criteria.
    (aa) The criteria and conditions specified under Special Uses,
LC 16.235(3)(d)(ii)(aa)-(ee) above are met.
    (bb) The use being protected is water dependent.
    (cc) Adverse impacts on water currents, erosion and
accretion patterns are minimized as much as feasible.
    (dd) Nonstructural solutions are inadequate to protect the use.
  (f) (i) Uses.  Active estuarine restoration involving dredge or fill.
   (ii) Criteria.
    (aa) Public need is demonstrated.
    (bb) The location and actions proposed for restoration
measures are adequate to achieve the stated restoration objective.  Restoration objectives
shall set forth the original conditions to be restored and the cause of the loss or
degradation.
    (cc) Any restoration action related to the distribution and
abundance of relevant amenities and attributes (e.g., long -term environmental, social or
economic values) that have been lost or diminished shall be consistent with the original
Conditions.
  (g) (i) Uses  Riprap and associated minor fills to protect preexisting
structures or specified values.
   (ii) Criteria.
    (aa) The use is required to protect human-made structures
existing prior to October 7, 1977 or critical wildlife habitat in adjacent shorelands as
identified in the Lane County Rural Comprehensive Plan.
    (bb) Natural bank stabilization measures are inadequate.
  (h) (i) Uses.
    (aa) High-intensity water -dependent recreation, including
boat ramps, marinas and new dredging for boat ramps and marinas.
    (bb) Aquaculture requiring dredge and/or fill or other
alteration of the estuary.
    (cc) Minor navigational improvements.
    (dd) Mining and mineral extraction, including dredging
necessary for mineral extraction.
    (ee) Other water -dependent uses requi ring occupation of
water surface area by means other than dredge or fill.
   (ii) Criteria and Conditions.
    (aa) The criteria and conditions listed under Special Uses LC
16.235(3)(d)(ii)(aa)-(ee)above are met.
    (bb) The use is consistent with the resource capabilities of the
area as measured by the following definition:  a use or activity is consistent with the
resource capabilities of the area when either the impacts of the use on estuarine species,
habitats, biological productivity and water quality are not significant, or it is documented
that the resources of the area are able to assimilate the use and activity and their effects
and continue to function in a manner which conserves long-term renewable resources,
natural biological productivity, recreational and aesthetic values and aquaculture.
    (cc) Associated land uses, if any, on adjacent shorelands
comply with applicable Lane County land use and zoning regulations.
  (i) (i) Uses.  Temporary alterations.
   (ii) Criteria.  A resource capabilities test shall be applied to
temporary alteration proposals to ensure:
16.235 Lane Code 16.235

May 2026 16-379 LC16.235_237
    (aa) That the short -term damage to re source is consistent
with resource capabilities of the area; and
    (bb) That the area and affected resources can be restored to
their original condition.
    (cc) The proposed alteration is other wise in compliance with
and in support of uses allowed by the CE-RCP zone.
 (4) Applicable Natural Features.  The boundaries of the CE -RCP Zone are
defined by natural features.  The CE -RCP Zone includes minor tracts of salt marsh,
tideflats, eelgrass and algae beds; those not included in the Natural Estuary Zone (NE -
RCP).  This zone also includes oyster and clam beds and areas immediately adjacent to
developed estuarine areas.  These are as defined on the Lane County zoning maps as
specified by LC 16.252(9).
 (5) Uses Subject to State and Federal Permits.
  (a) When State or Federal permits, leases, ease ments or similar types of
authorization are also required for a use, subject to special use approval, information
required as part of the State or Federal permit process may be required to be made
available to the County for the determination that applicable criteria are satisfied.
  (b) Applicants shall make application for all requisite State and/or
Federal permits, leases, easements or similar type of authorization within 10 days
following application for a special use approval in order to avoid unnecessary delays
caused by the unavailability of State or Federal processing information which may be
deemed necessary for special use review.
  (c) Any use authorized by the provisions of this zone shall also require
the securing of any necessary State or Federal Permit, lease, easement or similar type of
authorization.
 (6) Additional Criteria Required for Projects Involving Dredge or Fill . Any
use or activity permitted above which requires dredging or filling of the estuary must
meet the following criteria:
  (a) The use is required for navigation or is other wise water dependent
and requires an estuarine location, or is specifically allowed by the CE-RCP zone; and
  (b) A need (i.e., a substantial public benefit) is dem onstrated and the use
or alteration does not unreasonably interfere with public trust rights; and
  (c) No feasible alternative upland locations exist; and
  (d) Adverse impacts on identified estuarine values are minimized.
  (e)  Mitigation requirements of ORS 541.605 to 541.695 are met.
 Other uses and activities which could alter the estuary shall only be allowed if the
requirements in LC 16.235(6)(b), (c) and (d) above are met.
 (7) Telecommunication Towers.  Notwithstanding LC 16.235(2) above,
telecommunication facilities are allowed subject to compliance with the requirements of
LC 16.264, LC 16.235 and with applicable requirements elsewhere in LC Chapter 16
including but not necessarily limited to: the riparian vegetation protection standards in
LC 16.253; Floodplain Combining Zone (LC 16.244); Willamette Greenway
Development Permits (LC 16.254); the Coastal Resource Management Combining Zones
(LC 16.234, 16.235, 16.236, 16.237, 16.238, 16.239, 16.240, 16.241, 16.242, or 16.243);
Federal or State of Oregon inventories and regulations applicable to delineated wetlands
and waters of the nation or state; the Commercial Airport Safety Combining Zone (LC
16.245) and the Airport Safety Combining Zone (LC 16.246); and the Sensitive Bird
Habitat protection Standards and Criteria in LC 16.005(4).
 (Revised by Ordinance No. 7-87,
Effective 6.17.87; 7-91, 6.5.91; 5-96, 11.29.96; 4-02, 4.10.02; 10-04, 6.4.04; 20-05, 6.16.20)

16.236 Lane Code 16.236

May 2026 16-380 LC16.235_237
DEVELOPMENT ESTUARY ZONE (DE-RCP)
RURAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN

16.236 Development Estuary Zone (DE-RCP).
 (1) Purpose.  The primary purpose of the Development Estuary Zone DE -RCP
is to provide for navigational needs and public, commercial and industrial water
dependent uses which require an estuarine location.  Uses which are water related or non -
water dependent, non-related which do not damage the overall integrity of estuarine
resources and values should be considered; provided they do not conflict with the
primary purpose of the zone.
 (2) Permitted Uses .  In the DE -RCP Zone, the following types of uses are
permitted as hereinafter specifically provided for by this section, subject to the general
provisions and exception set forth in this Chapter; provided that no such use may be
permitted which involves dredging or filling of the estuary.
  (a)  The following waterborne transportation and associated water
dependent activities and uses:
   (i) Navigational aides.
   (ii) Maintenance dredging of navigation channel.
  (b) The following commercial activities and uses which are water
dependent:
   (i) Marine fueling facilities.
   (ii) Marinas.
   (iii) Loading and unloading facilities such as piers or docks.
  (c) The following industrial activities and uses which are water
dependent:
   (i) Marine construction and repair facilities.
   (ii) Log storage.
  (d) The following public facilities which are water dependent.
   (i) Marinas.
   (ii) Docks and piers and other moorages.
   (iii) Boat launching ramps.
  (e)  The following transportation facilities and uses, provided no filling
or dredging is required:
   (i) Operations, maintenance, and repair as defined in LC 15.010
of existing transportation facilities, services, and improvements, including road, bicycle,
pedestrian, port, airport and rail facilities, and major regional pipelines and terminals.
   (ii) Preservation as defined in LC 15.010, and rehabilitation
activities and projects as defined in LC 15.010 for existing transportation facilities,
services, and improvements, including road, bicycle, pedestrian, port, airport and rail
facilities, and major regional pipelines and terminals.
 (3) Special Uses Approved by the Planning Director .  The following specified
uses and no others are permitted, subject to prior submittal and ap proval of an application
pursuant to Type II procedures of LC Chapter 14 and  upon satisfaction of the applicable
criteria.  A Resource Capability Deter mination is required as set forth in LC 16.248,
except for major projects requiring an Impact Assessment as set forth in LC 16.249.
  (a) (i) Uses.  Any water dependent use not specifically auth orized in
LC 16.236(2) above; provided that no such use may be permitted which involves
dredging or filling of the estuary.
   (ii) Criteria. The use is water dependent.
  (b) (i) Uses.  Flow-lane disposal of dredged material.
16.236 Lane Code 16.236

May 2026 16-381 LC16.235_237
   (ii) Criteria.  Such action shall be monitored to assure that
estuarine sedimentation is con sistent with the resource capabilities and purposes of
affected natural and conservation management units.
  (c) (i) Uses.  Flood and erosion control structures, including, but not
necessarily limited to, jetties, seawalls, groins and bulkheads.
   (ii) Criteria and Conditions.
    (aa) The criteria specified in LC 16.236(4) below are met.
    (bb) The structures are designed and sited to minimize
erosion and human-induced sedimentation in adjacent areas.
    (cc) The structures are designed and sited to minimize
adverse impacts on water currents, water quality and fish and wildlife habitat.
    (dd) The use or uses to be protected by the proposed
structures are water dependent.
  (d) (i) Uses.  Riprap and associated minor fills to protect human -
made structures existing prior to October 7, 1977.
   (ii) Criteria and Conditions.  Natural bank stabilization measures
are inadequate.
  (e) (i) Uses.  All other uses; provided no dredging or filling is
required.
   (ii) Criteria.
    (aa) A public need is demonstrated.
    (bb) The use will not irrevocably limit future use of the area
for water dependent commercial or industrial facilities.
    (cc) The use will have minimal impact on resources, as
identified in the Lane County Rural Comprehensive Plan, in the area affected by the
proposed use.
  (f) (i) Uses.
    (aa) Low-intensity recreation which is water dependent.
    (bb) Scientific and educational observation.
    (cc) Active estuarine restoration.
    (dd) Aquaculture.
    (ee) Communication facilities.
    (ff) Bridge crossing support structures.
   (ii) Criteria and Conditions .
    (aa) The criteria specified in LC 16.236(4) below are met for
any use or activity requiring dredge or fill.
    (bb) The use or activity will not irrevocably limit the future
or present use of the area for water dependent commercial or industrial facilities.
    (cc) The location and actions proposed for restoration
measures are adequate to achieve the stated restoration objective.  Restoration objectives
shall set forth the original conditions to be restored and the cause of the loss or
degradation.
    (dd) Any restoration action related to the distribution and
abundance of relevant amenities and attributes (e.g., long -term environmental, social or
economic values) that have been lost or diminished shall be consistent with the original
conditions.
  (g) (i) Uses.  Any uses specified in LC 16.236(2) above which
involve dredging or filling of the estuary.
   (ii) Criteria.  The criteria specified in LC 16.236(4) below.
  (h) (i) Uses.  Temporary alterations.
16.236 Lane Code 16.236

May 2026 16-382 LC16.235_237
   (ii) Criteria.  A resource capabilities test shall be applied to
temporary alteration proposals to ensure:
    (aa) That the short -term damage to re source is consistent
with resource capabilities of the area; and
    (bb) That the area and affected resources can be restored to
their original condition.
    (cc) The proposed alteration is other wise in compliance with
and in support of uses allowed by the DE-RCP zone.
 (4) Additional Criteria Required for Projects Involving Dredge or Fill .  Any
use or activity permitted above which requires dredging or filling of the estuary must
meet the following criteria:
  (a) The use is required for navigation or is other wise water dependent,
and requires an estuarine location, or is specifically allowed by the DE-RCP zone; and
  (b) A need (i.e., a substantial public benefit) is demonstrated and the use
or alteration does not unreasonably interfere with public trust rights; and
  (c) No feasible alternative upland locations exist; and
  (d) Adverse impacts on identified estuarine values are minimized.
  (e) Mitigation requirements of ORS 541.605 to 541.695 are met.
Other uses and activities which could alter the estuary shall only be allowed if the
requirements of LC 16.236(4)(b), (c) and (d) above are met.
 (5)  Applicable Physical, Geographical or Natural Features.  The DE-RCP
Zone is designed to apply to navigation channels, subtidal areas for in -water disposal of
dredged material, major navigational appurtenances, deep water areas adjacent to the
shoreline and areas of minimal biological significance needed for uses requiring
alteration of the estuary.  These are as defined on the Lane County zoning maps as
specified by LC 16.252(9).
 (6)  Uses Subject to State and Federal Permits.
  (a) When State or Federal permits, leases, easements or similar types of
authorization are also required for a use, subject to special use approval, information
required as part of the State or Federal permit process may be required to be made
available to the County for the determination that applicable criteria are satisfied.
  (b) Applicants shall make application for all requisite State and/or
Federal permits, leases, easements or similar type of authorization within 10 days
following application for a special use approval in order to avoid unnecessary delays
caused by the unavailability of State or Federal processing information which may be
deemed necessary for special use review.
  (c) Any use authorized by the provisions of this zone shall also require
the securing of any necessary State or Federal permit, lease, easement or similar type of
authorization.
 (7) Telecommunication Towers.  Notwithstanding LC 16.236(2) -(3) above,
telecommunication facilities are allowed subject to compliance with the requirements of
LC 16.264, LC 16.236 and with applicable requirements elsewhere in LC Chapter 16
including but not necessarily limited to: the riparian vegetation protection standards in
LC 16.253; Floodplain Combining Zone (LC 16.244); Willamette Greenway
Development Permits (LC 16.254); the Coastal Resource Management Combining Zones
(LC 16.234, 16.235, 16.236, 16.237, 16. 238, 16.239, 16.240, 16.241, 16.242, or 16.243);
Federal or State of Oregon inventories and regulations applicable to delineated wetlands
and waters of the nation or state; the Commercial Airport Safety Combining Zone (LC
16.245) and the Airport Safety Combining Zone (LC 16.246); and the Sensitive Bird
Habitat protection Standards and Criteria in LC 16.005(4).
(Revised by Ordinance No. 7-87,
Effective 6.17.87; 7-91, 6.5.91; 5-96, 11.29.96; 4-02, 4.10.02; 10-04, 6.4.04; 20-05, 6.16.20)
16.237 Lane Code 16.237

May 2026 16-383 LC16.235_237

SIGNIFICANT NATURAL SHORELANDS COMBINING ZONE (/SN-RCP)
RURAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN

16.237 Significant Natural Shorelands Combining Zone (/SN-RCP).
 (1) Purpose.  The Significant Natural Shorelands Combining Zone /SN -RCP is
applied to those coastal shorelands identified in inventory information and designated
generally in the Lane County Rural Comprehensive Plan as possessing a combination of
unique physical, social or biological characteristics requiring protection from intensive
human disturbances.  Those areas serve multiple purposes, among which are education,
preservation of habitat diversity, water quality maintenance and provision of intangible
aesthetic benefits.  The /SN-RCP Zone is applied to prominent aesthetic features, such as
coastal headlands and open sand expanses in proximity to coastal waters, sensitive
municipal watersheds and significant freshwater marsh areas.
 The /SN -RCP Zone provides a procedure by which to define the exact
geographical boundaries of the shorelands within the /SN -RCP Zone that require
protection beyond that provided by the zone or zones with which the /SN -RCP Zone is
combined and imposes additional development requirements within these boundaries.
 (2) Intent.  The requirements imposed by the /SN -RCP Zone are in addition to
those imposed by the respective zone or zones with which the /SN-RCP Zone is
combined.  Where the requirements of the /SN -RCP Zone conflict with the requirements
of the zone or zones with which it is combined, the more restrictive requirements shall
apply.
 (3) Preliminary Investigation . Prior to commencement of any development
within the /SN -RCP Zone, the development must be reviewed through a Preliminary
Investigation Application to determine the specific area to which the requirements of the
/SN-RCP Zone apply.  The purpose of the Preliminary Investigation is to determine
applicability and existence of characteristics provi ded by LC 16.237(3) (a) through (g) ,
and to determine the ordinary high water line and setback areas as provided in either LC
16.237(7)(h) or (10). The requirements of the /SN-RCP Zone apply in an area in which
the Planning Director determines that one or more of the following apply.
  (a) Lands which limit control or are directly affected by the hydraulic
action of the coastal waterways.  These lands are composed of the following:
   (i) Floodways and floodway fringe.
   (ii) Land lying between the mean high water and mean low
watermark of the coastal water bodies.
   (iii) Dikes, dams, levees or steep embankments which control the
coastal water body.
   (iv) Lands along the ocean coast at or below the 26 -foot elevation
line.
  (b) Adjacent areas of geologic instability which are composed of:
   (i) Areas of geologic instability in which the instability is
attributable to the hydraulic action of the water body.
   (ii) Areas of geologic instability which have a direct impact on
water quality, water temperature or on shoreline stability.
   (iii) Shorelands in dunal areas in which the enforcement of the use
restrictions of the /BD -RCP Zone would be inadequate to protect water quality, water
temperature or shoreline stability.
  (c) Natural or human -made riparian resources. These lands are as
follows:
16.237 Lane Code 16.237

May 2026 16-384 LC16.235_237
   (i) Extend from 10 to 65 feet landward from the mean high water,
within which area the existing vegetation serves one or more of the following functions:
    (aa) Shading of coastal water body.
    (bb) Stabilization of shoreline.
    (cc) Habitat for rare or endangered wildlife species.
    (dd) Significant riparian vegetation areas as identified in the
Lane County Coastal Inventory.
  (d)  Areas of significant shoreland and wetland biological habitat
composed of:
   (i) Freshwater marshes identified in the Lane County Rural
Comprehensive Plan.
   (ii) Areas currently identified by Nature Conservancy and
included in the Lane County Coastal Inventory as significant natural areas or other areas
which the Lane County Board of Commissioners may deem significant natural areas
based on new inventory information.
   (iii) Habitat.  Other than that listed in LC 16.237( 3)(c)(i)(cc),
which supports rare or endangered species.
  (e) Areas necessary for water dependent and water related uses,
including areas of recreational importance which utilize coastal water or riparian
resources, areas appropriate for navigation and port facilities and areas having
characteristics suitable for aquaculture.  These are as identified in the Lane County Rural
Comprehensive Plan.
  (f) Areas identified in the Lane County Rural Comprehensive Plan as
having exceptional aesthetic or scenic quality derived from or related to the association
with coastal water areas.
  (g) Coastal headlands, identified in the Lane County Coastal Inventory.
 (4) Fees for Preliminary Investigation .  To partially defray the expense in
performing the Preliminary Investigation, a fee to be based on the scale of development
proposal must be charged to the applicant.  Such fees will be as established by order of
the Board of County Commissioners.
 (5) Notification of Preliminary Investigation Determination .  The Planning
Director must notify the applicant of the determination of the Preliminary Investigation
by mail within 10 days of completion of the Preliminary Investigation.  The notification
must include a site plan  delineating the portions of the parcel or parcels subject to the
requirements of the /SN -RCP Zone, and must  set forth the basis for the determination
based on the criteria specified in LC 16.237(3).
 (6) Appeal to Hearings Official .  Notwithstanding LC 14.080(1)(a)(i), a n
applicant may appeal to the Hearings Official the determination of the Preliminary
Investigation, and the manner for such appeal must be as provided by LC 14.080.

 (7) Permitted Uses.  In areas found subject to the requirements of the /SN-RCP
Zone by the Preliminary Investigation specified in LC 16.237( 3), the following structures
and uses and no others are permitted as hereinafter specifically provided for by this
section, subject to the general provisions  and exceptions set forth in this section.  The
Forest Practices Act requirements for the maintenance of riparian vegetation will be
enforced to provide shading and filtration and protect wildlife habitat at those sites
indicated in the Lane County Coastal Resources Inventory as "riparian vegetation" or
"significant wildlife habitat". These areas will be specially evaluated prior to approval of
timber harvest plans to ensure the habitat has been adequately considered.
16.237 Lane Code 16.237

May 2026 16-385 LC16.235_237
  (a) Propagation and harvesting of forest products consistent with the
Oregon Forest Practices Act as permitted by the zone or zones with which the /SN-RCP
Zone is combined.
  (b) Low-intensity grazing.
  (c) Harvesting of wild crops.
  (d) Low-intensity recreation.
  (e) Shore-secured floating moorage facilities in adjacent water areas.
  (f) Dredged material disposal when the /SN-RCP Zone is used in
conjunction with the /DMS-RCP Zone.
  (g) Mooring buoys, multipurpose -multifamily piling docks and piers,
dolphins and other moorage facilities in adjacent lakes or a Development Estuary Zone
(DE-RCP).
  (h) Housing as defined in LC 16.090. An application for the
development of housing must satisfy the following standards, unless an applicant seeks
approval under the criteria set forth in LC 16.237(8)(a)(i) or (b)(i).
   (i) Removal of vegetation is limited to an area within 40 feet of the
center of a dwelling, not including vegetation removal for up to a 16-foot wide area for
driveway access extending from a property boundary to a dwelling.  The center of the
dwelling is measured from the geographic center of a rectangle that encompasses the
entirety of the roofline of the structure  and that is not larger than the full extent of the
roofline.
   (ii) Except as provided in LC 16.237(7)(h)(iii), all structures must be
set back 100 feet from the ordinary high water line of lakes and estuaries.
   (iii) On oceanfront properties, adjacent to the vegetation line
described in ORS 390.770, all structures must be set back 200 -feet from the same
vegetation line.
   (iv) No vegetation removal is permitted within 100 feet of the
ordinary high water line of a lake, estuary, or from the vegetation line described in ORS
390.770.
   (v) Cornices, canopies, and eaves may extend two feet into the
setback area specified by LC 16.237(10)(g).
   (vi) Decks, uncovered porches, and stairways may extend a
maximum distance of 10 feet into the setback area as specified by LC 16.237(10)(h).
   (vii) Structures must not exceed 30 feet in total height as measured
by the vertical distance from the highest adjacent grade surrounding the building prior to
the start of construction to the highest pitched point of a roof.

 (8) Special Uses Approved by the Planning Director .  If found subject to the
requirements of the /SN-RCP Zone, based on the results of the Preliminary Investigation
specified by LC 16.237( 3), the following specified uses and no others are permitted,
subject to prior submittal and approval of an application pursuant to Type II procedures
of LC Chapter 14  upon satisfaction of the applicable criteria and determination that the
use is consistent with protection of natural values specified in the Coastal Resources
Management Plan.
  (a) (i) Uses.  Single-family homes, mobile homes and such accessory
buildings as allowed in the underlying zones.  Unless an applicant seeks approval under
LC 16.237(7)(h), the following criteria apply to the use.
   (ii) Criteria.  All requirements set forth in LC 16.237( 10) and (11)
are met.
  (b) (i) Uses.  Single-family dwelling units and mobile homes as
allowed in the zone or zones with which the /SN-RCP Zone is combined where existing
16.237 Lane Code 16.237

May 2026 16-386 LC16.235_237
parcel size is insufficient for the development to meet the development, setback and area
requirements set forth in LC 16.237( 10) and ( 11). Unless the applicant seeks approval
under LC 16.237(7)(h), the following criteria apply to the use.
   (ii) Criteria and Conditions.
    (aa) The said parcel existed prior to July 24, 1980.
    (bb) The structures must not occupy more than 30 percent of
the lot area.
    (cc) All applicable height restrictions are observed.
    (dd) The parcel is of sufficient size to meet all applicable
standards for subsurface sewage disposal.
    (ee) Clearance of vegetation on the remainder of the lot area,
including that portion in the setback area otherwise permitted for vegetation clearance, is
minimized.
    (ff) All otherwise applicable requirements of this section are
met.
  (c) (i) Uses.  The following moorage facilities attached or connected
to the shorelands and located in the estuary:
    (aa) Public or commercial piling-type docks or piers.
    (bb) Private, multifamily or multi-use piling -type docks or
piers.
    (cc) Mooring buoys which are permanently anchored to the
estuary floor.
    (dd) Dolphins.
   (ii) Criteria.
    (aa) The moorage facility is located within a Conservation
Estuary Zone (CE-RCP).
    (bb) The use is not in violation of the purposes of the
respective zone or zones with which the /SN-RCP Zone is combined.
    (cc) The use meets all criteria and conditions of the
appropriate estuary zone.
  (d) (i) Uses.  All buildings and uses allowed as permitted uses,
special uses or conditional uses in the respective zone or zones with which the /SN-RCP
Zone is combined, subject to the development, setback and area  requirements of this
section, except as expressly prohibited by LC 16.237( 9), and except for the development
of housing permitted by LC 16.237(7)(h).
   (ii) Criteria.
    (aa) All applicable criteria provided within the respective zone
with which the /SN-RCP Zone is combined are met.
    (bb) The use will not adversely affect the aesthetic and
biological characteristics of the site, as identified in the Rural Comprehensive Plan.
    (cc) Surface, subsurface and aquifer waters are protected
from pollution and sedimentation. The Lane County Department of Public Works, Land
Management Division, is the proper consulting agency in this regard.
    (dd) All requirements set forth in LC 16.237( 10) and (11) are
met.
  (e) (i) Uses.  Artificial bank stabilization adjacent to estuaries and
lakes.
   (ii) Criteria.
    (aa) The stabilization is necessary to protect structures existing
on or before October 7, 1977.
16.237 Lane Code 16.237

May 2026 16-387 LC16.235_237
    (bb) Natural bank stabilization methods are unfeasible or less
appropriate.
  (f) (i) Uses.  Single-family, single -purpose, piling-type docks and
piers.
   (ii) Criteria.
    (aa) No reasonable alternatives exist to the construction of a
single-family, single-use pier.  Alternatives  include mooring buoys, public piers within a
reasonable distance from the proposed use, cooperative use of existing private piers
located within a reasonable distance or non-piling-type floating piers.
    (bb) The dock or pier must  not be located within a Natural
Estuary Zone (NE-RCP).
    (cc) If located within the estuary, the use must meet all
criteria and conditions of the appropriate estuary zone.
 (9) Prohibited Uses .  If found subject to the requirements of the /SN -RCP
Zone, based on the results of the Preliminary Investigation specified by LC 16.237(3), the
following uses are specially prohibited:
  (a) Fill in coastal lakes.
  (b) Fill in freshwater marsh areas as identified in the Lane County Rural
Comprehensive Plan.
 (10) Site and Development Requirements .  If found subject to the requirements
of the /SN -RCP Zone, based on the results of the Preliminary Investigation specified by
LC 16.237( 3), the development requirements  of LC 16.237(10) (a) through (n)  are in
addition to those provided by the respective zone or zones with which the /SN -RCP Zone
is combined.  These requirements do not apply to timber harvesting activities. Timber
harvesting activities, where permitted by the respective zone with which the /SN-RCP
Zone is combined, must  conform to Oregon Forest Practices Act rules.  These
requirements do not apply to housing as permitted by LC 16.237(7)(h).
  (a) No more of a parcel’s existing vegetation may  be cleared than is
necessary for the permitted use, accessory buildings, necessary access, septic
requirements and fire safety requirements.
  (b) To the maximum degree possible, building sites must  be located on
portions of the site which exhibit the least vegetative cover.
  (c) Construction activities occur in such a manner so as to avoid
unnecessary excavation and/or removal of existing vegetation beyond that area required
for the facilities indicated in LC 16.237( 10)(a).  Where vegetation removal beyond that
allowed in LC 16.237( 10)(a) cannot be avoided, the site must  be replanted during the
next replanting season to avoid sedimentation of coastal waters.  The vegetation must  be
of indigenous species in order to maintain the natural character of the area.
  (d) The requirements for parking and vision clearance must be as
provided by the respective zone or zones with which the /SN-RCP Zone is combined.
  (e) No topographic modification is permitted within the 100-foot
setback area specified by LC 16.237(10)(m) and (n).
  (f) The shoreward half of the setback area specified by LC
16.237(10)(m) and (n) must be left in indigenous vegetation, except where un-surfaced
trails are provided.
  (g) Cornices, canopies and eaves may extend two feet into the setback
area specified by LC 16.237(10)(m) and (n).
  (h) Decks, uncovered porches, stairways and fire escapes may extend a
maximum distance of 10 feet into the setback area specified by LC 16.237(10)(m) and (n)
16.237 Lane Code 16.237

May 2026 16-388 LC16.235_237
  (i) All mature trees must be retained within the setback area specified
by LC 16.237( 10)(m) and (n) , except where removal is subject to requirements of the
Oregon Forest Practices Act.
  (j) Structures must be sited and/or screened with natural vegetation so
as not to impair the aesthetic quality of the site.
  (k) The exterior building materials must  blend in color, hue and texture
to the maximum amount feasible with the surrounding vegetation and landscape.
 (l) Where public ownerships in the form of existing rights -of-way which
provide access to coastal waters are involved in development subject to the regulations of
this section, those ownerships must  be retained where possible, or replaced where not
possible, upon the sale or disposal of the rights-of-way.  Rights-of-way may be vacated to
permit redevelopment of shoreland areas provided public access across the affected site is
retained.
  (m) Structures must be setback 100 feet from coastal lakes and the estuary
measured at right angles to the high water line. Use of this 100 feet must be as specified
in LC 16.237(10)(e)-(h).
  (n) Building setbacks on oceanfront parcels are determined in accordance
with the rate of erosion in the area to provide reasonable protection to the site through the
expected lifetime of the structure. Setbacks must be determined by doubling the
estimated average annual erosion rate and multiplying that by the expected life of the
structure.

 (11) Special Land Division Requirements.  The following criteria must  be met
for land divisions on property within the /SN.  RCP Zone, based on the Preliminary
Investigation in LC 16.237( 3).  These criteria are in addition to minimum area
requirements of any zone combined with the /SN-RCP Zone.
  (a) For lands within urban or urbanizable areas or lands developed or
committed to development:
   (i) Land divisions must be consistent with shoreland values as
identified in the Coastal Resources Management Plan, not adversely impact quality, and
not increase hazard to life or property.
  (b) For lands not within urban or urbanizable areas or lands developed or
committed to development:
   (i) There is a lack of suitable shoreland areas within urban or
urbanizable areas or within areas developed or committed to development.
  (c) Land divisions meeting LC 16.237(11) (a) or (b) are permitted
subject to the minimum area requirements of the respective zone or zones with which the
/SN-RCP Zone is combined or 10 acres, whichever is greater.

 (12) Exceptions to Nonconforming Uses .  If damaged or destroyed, piling-type
docks or piers may be rebuilt, but not expanded, notwithstanding the provisions of LC
16.251.
 (13) Application of Zone to Federal Lands. The application of the /SN -RCP
Zone must be held in abeyance until such a time as these lands or portions of these lands
may pass into private, State, or County ownership. The Rural Comprehensive Plan
Designation must provide appropriate Federal agencies with local recommendation for
proper use of these lands. Uses requiring State and Federal permits are subject to the
following:
  (a) When State or Federal permits, leases, easements or similar types of
authorization are also required for a use, subject to special use approval, information
16.237 Lane Code 16.237

May 2026 16-389 LC16.235_237
required as part of the State or Federal permit process may be required to be made
available to the County for the determination that applicable criteria are satisfied.
  (b) Applicants must make application for all requisite State and/or
Federal permits, leases, easements or similar type of authorization within 10 days
following application for a special use approval in order to avoid unnecessary delays
caused by the unavailability of State or Federal processing information which may be
deemed necessary for special use review.
  (c) Any use authorized by the provisions of this zone must  also require
the securing of any necessary State or Federal permit, lease, easement or similar type of
authorization.
  (d) Proposals subject to special use approval or for building permits for
uses otherwise allowed must be forwarded in writing to the Oregon State Department of
Fish and Wildlife within 14 days of final action to evaluate the impact upon habitats and
to make recommendations concerning ways to avoid adverse impacts.
  (e) Improvements to ocean shore areas (as defined in ORS 390.605) are
subject to a permit from the Oregon Department of Transportation.
 (Revised by Ordinance No.
7-87, Effective 6.17.87; 7 -91, 6.5.91; 5-96, 11.29.96; 7-10, 11.25.10; 7-12, 12.28.12; 20-05, 6.16.20; 25-07,
5.5.26)

16.237 Lane Code 16.237

May 2026 16-390 LC16.235_237

PAGES 16-389 THROUGH 16-400
ARE RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION