Lane Code
CHAPTER 16 CONTENTS

May 2026 16-i
16.090 Definitions.
16.095 Compliance With LC Chapter 15, Roads.
16.096 Compliance with Erosion Prevention Code.
DEVELOPMENTAL APPROVAL PROCEDURES
16.100 Development.  Approval Procedures Relationship of Lane Code Chapter 14
into Lane Code Chapter 16.

May 5, 2026 16-26 LC16.090-100
16.090 Definitions.
When a Term Is Not Defined. Terms not defined in this section will have their ordinary
accepted meanings within the context in which they are used. Webster’s Third New
International Dictionary of the English Language, Unabridged,  Copyright 1981, Principal
Copyright 1961, will be considered a standard reference for defining the meanings of terms
not defined in this section or elsewhere in Lane Code. Where specific terms are not defined
relating to marijuana and commercial uses in c onnection with recreationa l marijuana as
regulated by state law, the definitions contained in Oregon Laws, Oregon Revised Statutes
(ORS), Oregon Administrative Rules (OAR), Oregon Liquor Control Commission
(OLCC) interpretation(s), and case law interpretations apply directly.
Conflicting Definitions.  Where a term defined in section 13.030 is defined in another
section of Lane Code or by other regulations or statutes referenced by this chapter, the term
in this section will control.
Definitions. For the purpose of Chapter 16 of the Lane Code, unless the context requires
otherwise, the following words and phrases mean:
(1) Acceptance.  Received by and considered by the Director as sufficiently complete to
begin processing according to the application or appeal review procedures of this
chapter.
(2) Accepted Farming Practice.  A mode of operation that is common to farms of a
similar nature, necessary for the operation of such farms to obtain a profit in money,
and customarily utilized in conjunction with farm use.
(3) Accessory.  Incidental, appropriate and subordinate to the main use of a tract or
structure.
(4) Accessory Structure.  A detached structure, the use of which is customarily incidental
to that of the primary structure or the primary use of the land and which is located on
the same lot or parcel as the primary structure or use.
(5) Accretion.  The build-up of land along a beach or shore by the deposition of
waterborne or airborne sand, sediment, or other material.
(6) Agriculture.  Synonymous with definition of "farm use."
(7) Agricultural Building  Nothing in this Chapter is intended to authorize the application
of a state structural specialty code to any agricultural building or equine facility.
(a) “Agricultural building” means a structure located on a farm or forest operation
and used for:
(i) Storage, maintenance or repair of farm or forestry machinery and equipment;
(ii) The raising, harvesting and selling of crops or forest products;
(iii) The feeding, breeding, management and sale of, or the produce of, livestock,
poultry, fur-bearing animals or honeybees;
(iv) Dairying and the sale of dairy products;
(v) Any other agricultural, forestry or horticultural use or animal husbandry, or
any combination thereof, including the preparation and storage of the
produce raised on the farm for human use and animal use, the preparation
and storage of forest products and the disposal by marketing or otherwise, of
farm product or forest products.
(b) “Agricultural building” does not include:
(i) A dwelling;

May 5, 2026 16-27 LC16.090-100
(ii) A structure used for a purpose other than growing plants in which 10 or more
persons are present at any one time;
(iii) A structure regulated by the State Fire Marshall pursuant to ORS chapter
476;
(iv) A structure used by the public; or
(v) A structure subject to sections 4001 to 4127, title 42, United States Code (the
National Flood Insurance Act of 1968), as amended, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
(c) “Equine facility” means a building located on a farm and used by the farm owner
or the public for:
(i) Stabling or training equines; or
(ii) Riding lessons and training clinics;
(d) “Equine facility” does not include:
(i) A dwelling;
(ii) A structure in which more than 10 persons are present at any one time;
(iii) A structure regulated by the State Fire Marshall pursuant to ORS chapter
476; or
(iv) A structure subject to sections 4001 to 4127, title 42, United States Code (the
National Flood Insurance Act of 1968), as amended, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
(e) A person may not convert an agricultural building authorized for a forest use or
mixed farm and forest use to another use.
(8) Alter or Alteration.  Any change, addition or modification in use construction or
occupancy.  For the purposes of LC 16.234 (NE-RCP), 16.235 (CE-RCP), 16.236 (DE-
RCP), 16.237 (/SN-RCP), 16.238 (/PW-RCP), 16.239 (/NRC-RCP),  16.240 (/RD-RCP),
16.241 (/MD-RCP), 16.242 (/DMS-RCP), and 16.243 (/BD-RCP); “alteration” means
any man-caused change in the environment, including physical, topographic, hydraulic,
biological, or other similar environmental changes, or changes which affect water quality.
(9) Altered Shorelines.  Shorelines with bulkheads, seawalls, riprap, or other physical
structures, but do not include earthen, vegetated dikes.
(10) Amendment, Minor.  A change to a preliminary plan, plat or map which:
(a) Does not change the number of lots or parcels created by the subdivision or
partition;
(b) Does not "substantially enlarge or reduce" the boundaries of subdivided or
partitioned area;
(c) Does not change the general location or amount of land devoted to a specific land
use; or
(d) Includes only minor shifting of the proposed parcel or lot lines, location of
buildings, proposed public or private streets, pedestrian ways, utility easements,
parks or other public open spaces, septic tank drainfield locations and well
locations.
(11) Amendment, Major.  A change to preliminary plan, plat or map which is not a
minor amendment.
(12) Anadromous.  Referring to fish, such as salmon, which hatch in fresh water,
migrate to ocean waters to grow and mature, and return to fresh waters to spawn.

May 5, 2026 16-28 LC16.090-100
(13) Animal Hospital.  A place where animals or pets are given medical or surgical
treatment and the boarding of animals is limited to short-term care incidental to the
hospital use.
(14) Appearance.  Submission of testimony or evidence in the proceeding, either oral
or written.  Appearance does not include a name or address on a petition.
(15) Approval Authority.  A person, or a group of persons, given authority by Lane Code to
review and/or make decisions upon certain applications according to the review
procedures of Lane Code Chapter 14.
(16) Approximate Flood Hazard Study Area.  Flood hazard areas as shown on the
Federal Flood Hazard Boundary Maps where base flooding elevations have not been
determined.
(17) Aquaculture.  The raising, feeding, planting and harvesting of fish, shell fish or
waterborne plants and associated facilities necessary for the use.
(18) Area.  The surface included within any set of lines which may be further defined
in square feet or acres, exclusive of County or local access public street.
(19) Area of Flood Hazard.  The land in the floodplain within a community subject to
a one percent chance of flooding in any given year.
(20) Area Zoned for Rural Residential Use. Are lands that are zoned Rural Residential
(RR, RCP), not located inside an urban growth boundary as defined in Oregon
Revised Statute 195.060, and that are subject to an acknowledged exception to a
statewide land use planning goal relating to farmland or forestland and planned and
zoned by the county to allow residential use as a primary use.
(21) Auxiliary.  As used in the F-1 zone and F-2 zone, means a use or alteration of a
structure or land that provides help or is directly associated with the conduct of a
particular forest practice. An auxiliary structure is located on site, temporary in
nature, and is not designed to remain for the forest’s entre growth cycle from planting
to harvesting. An auxiliary use is removed when a particular forest practice has
concluded.
(22) Avulsion.  A tearing away or separation by the force of water.  Land which is separated
from  uplands or adjacent properties by the action of a stream or river cutting through the
land to form a new stream bed.
(23) Base Flood.  A flood that has a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
(24) Beach.  Gently sloping area of loose material (e.g., sand, gravel and cobbles) that
extends landward from the low waterline (of the uppermost line of wave and tidal
action) to a point where there is a definite change in the material type or land form, or
to the line of vegetation.
(25) Bed and Breakfast Accommodation.  An accessory use to be carried on within a
structure designed for and occupied as a single-family dwelling in which no more than
five sleeping rooms are provided on a daily or weekly period, not to exceed 29
consecutive days, for the use of travelers or transients for a charge or fee.  Meal service
at a Bed and Breakfast Accommodation is limited to the preparation and service of
breakfast, except on the same tract as a winery.  Bed and Breakfast Accommodation is
a Home Occupation where not specifically listed as a permitted or conditionally
permitted use.  If the Bed and Breakfast Accommodation is cited as a home occupation

May 5, 2026 16-29 LC16.090-100
on the same tract as a Winery or Cider Business, two meals may be served per day to
registered guests at either the Bed and Breakfast or at the Winery or Cider Business.
(26) Biofuel. The liquid, gaseous or solid fuels derived from biomass, that have been
converted into processed fuel ready for use as energy by a biofuel producer’s
customers or for direct biomass energy use at a biofuel producer’s site.
(27) Biomass. The organic matter that is available on a renewable or recurring basis
and that is derived from:
(a) Forest or rangeland woody debris from harvesting or thinning conducted to
improve forest or rangeland ecological health and reduce uncharacteristic stand
replacing wildfire risk;
(b) Wood material from hardwood timber described in ORS 321.267(3);
(c) Agricultural residues;
(d) Offal and tallow from animal rendering;
(e) Food wastes collected as provided under ORS Chapter 459 or459A;
(f) Yard or wood debris collected as provided under ORS chapter 459 or 459A;
(g) Wastewater solids; or
(h) Crops grown solely to be used for energy.
Biomass does not mean wood that has been treated with creosote
pentachlorophenol, inorganic arsenic or other inorganic chemical compounds
or waste, other than matter described above.
(28) Board.  Board of County Commissioners of Lane County.
(29) Boarding of Horses.  The boarding of horses for profit shall include the
following:
(a) The stabling, feeding and grooming for a fee, or the renting of stalls for the care
of horses not belonging to the owner of the property; and
(b) Related facilities, such as training arenas, corrals and exercise tracks.
The boarding of horses for profit does not include the following:
(i) The mere pasturage of horses or the boarding of horses not owned by the
property owner for the purpose of breeding with the owner's stock.
(ii) The incidental stabling of not more than four horses.
(iii) The boarding of horses for friends or guests where no charge is made.
(iv) Equestrian activities when the raising, feeding, training or grooming of
horses is a farm use by the property owner of the land qualifying for farm
assessment under regulations of the State Department of Revenue.
(30) Boarding House.  A dwelling or part thereof, in which lodging is provided by the
owner which equals or exceeds the limitations of a bed and breakfast
accommodation.
(31) Bridge Crossings.  The portion of a bridge spanning a waterway not including
supporting structures or fill located in the waterway or adjacent wetlands.
(32) Bridge Crossing Support Structures.  Piers, piling, and similar structures
necessary to support a bridge span but not including fill for causeways or approaches.
(33) Building.  The terms "building" and "structure" are synonymous, and mean
something that which is framed, erected, constructed or placed to stand temporarily
or permanently on a tract of land.  This definition specifically includes a mobile
home, manufactured home and accessories thereto, gas or liquid storage tanks
principally above ground and revetments, rip-rap, boat docks or bridges.  Driveways

May 5, 2026 16-30 LC16.090-100
or walks not more than six inches higher than the ground on which they rest are not
buildings.  Retaining walls less than four (4) feet in height and fences not heigher
than six (6) feet are not considered buildings for the sake of general property line
setbacks.
(34) Building Site.  That portion of the lot, parcel or unpartitioned or unsubdivided tract of
land upon which the building appurtenances are to be placed, or are already existing,
including adequate areas for sewage disposal, light, air clearances, proper drainage,
appropriate easements and, if applicable, other items required by the Lane Code.
(35) Camp.  An area designed for organizational recreation which may include
facilities such as; swimming pools, meeting halls and indoor shelters for recreation.
(36) Campground.
(a) An area designed for short-term recreational purposes and where facilities,
except commercial activities such as grocery stores and laundromats, are
provided to accommodate that use.  Space for tents, campers, recreational
vehicles and motor homes are allowed and permanent open air shelters
(adirondacks) may be provided on the site by the owner of the development.
(b) Applicable to Nonimpacted Forest Lands Zone (F1, RCP), Impacted Forest
Lands Zone (F-2, RCP), and Exclusive Farm Use Zone (EFU-RCP) only, an area
devoted to overnight temporary use for vacation, recreational or emergency
purposes, but not for residential purposes and is established on a site or is
contiguous to lands with a park or other outdoor natural amenity that is
accessible for recreational use by the occupants of the campground.
(37) Camping Vehicle Park.  Synonymous with definition of Recreational Vehicle
Park.
(38) Carrying Capacity.  Level of use which can be accommodated and continued
without irreversible impairment of natural resources productivity, the ecosystem and
the quality of air, land, and water resources.
(39) Carrying Capacity Management.  The management of coastal resources to ensure
that public infrastructure systems are appropriately sized, located and managed so
that the quality and productivity of the resource and other natural areas are protected.
(40) Cemetery.  Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the dead and
dedicated for cemetery purposes, including columbariums, crematoriums,
mausoleums and mortuaries, when operated in conjunction with and within the
boundary of such cemetery.
(41) Church.  A building, together with its accessory buildings and uses, where
persons regularly assemble for worship, and which building, together with its
accessory buildings and uses, is maintained and controlled by a religious body
organized to sustain public worship.  A church does not include a school.
(42) Clinic.  Single or multiple offices for physicians, surgeons, dentists,
chiropractors, osteopaths and other members of the healing arts, including a
dispensary in each such building to handle only merchandise of a nature customarily
prescribed by occupants in connection with their practices.
(43) Cluster Subdivision.  A subdivision for which the applicable zoning district
allows relaxed lot area, coverage and setback requirements and alternative types of
dwellings as specified in LC Chapter 16, and which is consistent with the cluster

May 5, 2026 16-31 LC16.090-100
subdivision Policy #24 set forth under Goal 2, Land Use Planning of the Lane County
General Plan Policies.
(44) Coastal Lakes.  Lakes in the coastal zone that are bordered by a dune formation
or that have a direct hydrologic surface or subsurface connection with saltwater.
(45) Coastal Recreation.  Occurs in offshore waters, estuaries, and streams, along
beaches and bluffs, and in adjacent shorelands.  It includes a variety of activities,
from swimming, scuba diving, boating, fishing, hunting, and use of off-highway
vehicles (OHV), shell collecting, painting, wildlife observation, and sightseeing, to
the uses of coastal resorts and water-oriented restaurants.
(46) Coastal Shorelands.  Those areas immediately adjacent to the ocean, all estuaries
and associated wetlands, and all coastal lakes.
(47) Communication Facility.  A facility constructed for the purpose of transmitting
telegraph, telephone, microwave, television, radio and other similar signals.
(48) Compost. The controlled biological decomposition of organic material or the
product resulting from such a process.
(49) Comprehensive Plan.  A generalized, coordinated land use map and policy
statement of the governing body of a local government that interrelates all functional
and natural systems and activities relating to the use of lands, including, but not
limited to, sewer and water systems, transportation systems, educational facilities,
recreational facilities and natural resources and air and water quality management
programs.  "Comprehensive" means all inclusive, both in terms of the geographic
area covered and functional and natural activities and systems occurring in the area
covered by the plan.  "General nature" means a summary of policies and proposals in
broad categories and does not necessarily indicate specific locations of any area,
activity or use.  A plan is "coordinated" when the needs of all levels of governments,
semipublic and private agencies and the citizens of Oregon have been considered and
accommodated as much as possible.  "Land" includes water, both surface and subsur-
face, and the air.
(50) Contiguous.  Having at least one common boundary line greater than eight feet in
length.  Tracts of land under the same ownership and which are intervened by a street
(local access, public, County, State or Federal street) shall not be considered
contiguous.
(51) County Official.  The Director of a Lane County Department or Division, or any
Lane County advisory committee or commission acting in its official capacity.
(52) Cultured Christmas Trees.  Means trees:
(a) Grown on lands used exclusively for that purpose, capable of preparation by
intensive cultivation methods such as plowing or turning over the soil;
(b) Of a marketable species;
(c) Managed to produce trees meeting U.S. No. 2 or better standards for Christmas
trees as specified by the Agriculture Marketing Services of the United States
Department of Agriculture; and
(d) Evidencing periodic maintenance practices of shearing for Douglas fir and pine
species, weed and brush control and one or more of the following practices:
Basal pruning, fertilizing, insect and disease control, stump culture, soil
cultivation, irrigation.
(53) Current Employment of Land for Farm Use.  Includes:

May 5, 2026 16-32 LC16.090-100
(a) Farmland, the operation or use of which is subject to any farm-related
government program;
(b) Land lying fallow for one year as a normal and regular requirement of good
agricultural husbandry;
(c) Land planted in orchards or other perennials, other than land specified in LC
16.090(6) below prior to maturity;
(d) Any land constituting a woodlot not to exceed 20 acres, contiguous to and owned
by the owner of land specially valued at true cash value for farm use even if the
land constituting the woodlot is not utilized in conjunction with farm use;
(e) Wasteland, in an exclusive farm use zone, dry or covered with water, neither
economically tillable nor grazeable, lying in or adjacent to and in common
ownership with a farm use land and which is not currently being used for any
economic farm use;
(f) Land not in an exclusive farm use zone which has not been eligible for
assessment at special farm use value in the year prior to planting the current crop
and has been planted in orchards, cultured Christmas trees or vineyards for at
least three years;
(g) Except for land under a single family dwelling, land under buildings supporting
accepted farm practices, including the processing facilities allowed by ORS
215.213(1)(u) and the processing of farm crops into biofuel as commercial
activities in conjunction with farm use under ORS 215.213(2)(c);
(h) Water impoundments lying in or adjacent to and in common ownership with farm
use land;
(i) Land lying idle for no more than one year where the absence of farming activity
is due to the illness of the farmer or member of the farmer's immediate family.
For purposes of this paragraph, illness includes injury or infirmity whether or not
such illness results in death;
(j) Any land described under ORS 321.267(3) or 321.824(3); and
(k) Land used for the processing of farm crops into biofuel, as defined in LC 16.090,
if:
(i) Only the crops of the landowner are being processed;
(ii) The biofuel from all of the crops purchased for processing into
biofuel is used on the farm of the landowner; or
(iii) The landowner is custom processing crops into biofuel from
other landowners in the area for their use or sale.
(54) Date of Creation and Existence. Applicable to Nonimpacted Forest Lands Zone
(F-1, RCP), Impacted Forest Lands Zone (F-2, RCP), and Exclusive Farm Use Zone
(EFU, RCP) only. When a lot, parcel or tract is reconfigured pursuant to applicable
law after November 4, 1993, the effect of which is to qualify a lot, parcel or tract for
the siting of a dwelling, the date of the reconfiguration is the date of creation or
existence. Reconfigured means any change in the boundary of the lot, parcel, or tract.
(55) Day.  A calendar day, computed consistent with ORS 174.120.
(56) Day Care Nurseries.  Any institution, establishment or place in which are
commonly received at one time, six or more children not of common parentage,
under the age of six years, for a period or periods not exceeding 12 hours, for the

May 5, 2026 16-33 LC16.090-100
purpose of being given board, care or training apart from their parents or guardians
for compensation or reward.
(57) Deflation Plain.  The broad interdune area which is wind-scoured to the level of
the summer water table.  Some deflation plains are delineated wetlands subject to
protection per Section 7 of the Clean Water Act.
(58) Department.  The Lane County Department of Public Works.
(59) Depth.  The horizontal distance between the front and rear boundary lines
measured in the mean direction of the side boundary lines.
(60) Design Depth.  The channel depth  authorized by Congress and maintained by the
U. S. Army Corps of Engineers.  The actual maintained depth of a channel may
exceed the design or authorized depth because of:
(a) The limits of dredging precision which causes “overdepth”; and
(b) The practice, where approved by the Corps of Engineers, of “advanced
maintenance” overdredging which designates the amount of extra depth to be
dredged to insure clear project depths for the time period between maintenance
operations.
(61) Destroy.  To ruin the structure, organic existence, or condition of: as to pull or
tear down, to lay waste, to ruin completely or injure or mutilate by clearing, tearing,
breaking, cutting, spraying with pesticides or herbicides, burning or erosion.
(62) Development.  The division of a parcel of land into two or more parcels; the
construction, reconstruction, conversion, structural alteration, relocation or
enlargement of any structure; any mining. excavation, landfill or grading, including
the removal or destruction of vegetation within a protected riparian setback area
designated by the Rural Comprehensive Plan.
(63) Development, Minimal.  Development which is of minimal economic value and
is essentially impermanent.  Examples are dune boardwalks, fences which do not
substantially affect sand erosion or migration, temporary open-sided structures or
approved septic drainfield serving permitted development.
(64) Director.  The Director of the Land Management Division of the Lane County
Public Works Department, or the Director's delegated representative within the
Department.
(65) Disposal site. For the purposes of LC 16.212 and 16.292, land and facilities used
for the disposal, handling or transfer of, or energy recovery, material recovery and
recycling from solid wastes, including but not limited to dumps, landfills, sludge
lagoons, sludge treatment facilities, disposal sites for septic tank pumping or cesspool
cleaning service, transfer stations, energy recovery facilities, incinerators for solid
waste delivered by the public or by a collection service, composting plants and land
and facilities previously used for solid waste disposal at a land disposal site.
(a) “Disposal site” does not include:
(i) A facility authorized by a permit issued under ORS 466.005 to 466.385 to
store, treat or dispose of both hazardous waste and solid waste;
(ii)  A facility subject to the permit requirements of ORS 468B.050 or 468B.053;
(iii)  A site used by the owner or person in control of the premises to dispose of
soil, rock, concrete or other similar nondecomposable material, unless the
site is used by the public either directly or through a collection service;
(iv) A site operated by a dismantler issued a certificate under ORS 822.110; or

May 5, 2026 16-34 LC16.090-100
(v) A site used for the storage of dredged materials.
(66) Dune.  A hill or ridge of sand built up by wind along sandy coasts.
(67) Dune, Active.  A dune that migrates, grows and diminishes primarily according
to the force of wind and supply of sand.  The dune has no soil development and little,
if any, cohesion of underlying sand.  Active dunes include all open sand (vegetation.
free) areas and active (sparsely vegetated) hummocks and foredunes.  Soil types are
72K and occasionally Westport series soils.
(68) Dune Complex.  Various patterns of small dunes with partially stabilized
intervening areas.
(69) Dune, Older Stabilized.  A dune that is stable from wind erosion, and that has
significant soil development and that may include diverse forest cover.  They include
older foredunes.
(70) Dune, Recently Stabilized.  A dune which presently has sufficient vegetation to
be stabilized from wind erosion but which exhibits little, if any, soil development or
cohesion of underlying sand.  This includes soil-less dunes recently stabilized with
beach grass and younger stabilized dunes which may possess forest communities and
some soil development but which lack consolidation of underlying sands.  Soil types
are of Westport and Netarts series soils.  Recently stabilized dunes include
conditionally stable foredunes, conditionally stable dunes, dune complexes, and
younger stabilized dunes.  “Conditionally” stabilized means that stability from wind
erosion is dependent upon maintaining the vegetative cover.”
(71) Dune, Younger Stabilized.  A wind-stable dune with weakly developed soils and
vegetation.
(72) Dwelling.  A building or portion thereof which is occupied as a residence or
sleeping place, either permanently or temporarily, but excluding hotels, motels, auto
courts, guest houses, and camping vehicles.  Where the term, "dwelling," is used in
Lane Code Chapter 16, it shall mean a single-family dwelling or manufactured home
unless otherwise noted.
(73) Dwelling, Multiple.  A building designed and used for occupancy by three or
more families, all living independently of each other, and having separate
housekeeping facilities for each family.
(74) Dwelling, Single-Family.  A detached dwelling designed or used exclusively for
the occupancy of one family and having housekeeping facilities for one family.
(75) Dwelling, Two-Family (Duplex).  A building consisting of two separate dwelling
units with a common roof and common foundation, designed and used exclusively
for the occupancy of two families living independently of each other and having
housekeeping facilities for each family.
(76) Enhancement.  An action which results in a long-term improvement of existing
functional characteristics and processes that is not the result of a creation or
restoration action.
(77) Entrance channel.  That portion of the waterway exposed to wave surge from the
open sea and which provides protected access or opening to the main channel, as
authorized by the Corps of Engineers.
(78) Estuary/Estuarine.  A body of water semienclosed by land, connected with the
open ocean and within which salt water is usually diluted by fresh water derived from

May 5, 2026 16-35 LC16.090-100
the land.  The estuary includes:  (a) estuarine water; (b) tidelands; (c) tidal marshes;
and (d) submerged lands.  Estuaries extend upstream to the head of tidewater.
(79) Exploration.  Superficial survey measures which do not include active seismic
surveys or prospect well drilling.
(80) Existing Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision.  Existing manufactured home
park or subdivision means a manufactured home park for which the construction of
facilities for servicing the lot on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads and the construction of streets) are completed before
December 18, 1985 the effective date of Lane County's conversion to the Regular
Flood Insurance Program.
(81) Expansion to an Existing Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision.  Expansion
to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision means the preparation of
additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the
manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of utilities, either
final site grading or pouring of concrete pads, or the construction of streets).
(82) Family.  An individual or two or more persons related by blood or marriage or
group of not more than five persons (excluding servants), who need not be related by
blood or marriage, living together in a dwelling unit.
(83) Family Day Care Facility.  As authorized and regulated by ORS 418.817, a care
facility for children within a residential dwelling allowed by the residential,
commercial or agricultural zone in which the day care center occurs.  Such a facility
may provide either full-time or part-time supervision and care for no more than 12
children including the children of the resident-operator(s).
(84) Farm Use.  Means:
(a) The current employment of land for the primary purpose of obtaining a profit in
money by raising, harvesting and selling crops or by the feeding, breeding,
management and sale of, or the produce of, livestock, poultry, furbearing animals
or honeybees or for dairying and the sale of dairy products or any other
agricultural or horticultural use or animal husbandry or any combination thereof;
(b) The preparation, storage and disposal by marketing or otherwise of the products
or byproducts raised on such land for human use and animal use;
(c) The current employment of land for the primary purpose of making a profit in
money by stabling or training equines including but not limited to providing
riding lessons, training clinics and schooling shows; or
(d) The propagation, cultivation, maintenance and harvesting of aquatic species and
bird and animal species to the extent allowed by the State Fish and Wildlife
Commission;
(e) The on-site construction and maintenance of equipment and facitlies usied for the
activities described in this definition; or
(f) Not including the use of land subject to the provisions of ORS Chapter 321,
except land used exclusively for growing cultured Christmas trees as defined in
LC 16.090 above or land described in ORS 321.267(3) or 321.824(3);
(g) As used in this definition:

May 5, 2026 16-36 LC16.090-100
“Preparation” of products or by-products includes but is not
limited to the cleaning, treatment, sorting, or packaging of
the products or by-products; and
“Products or by-products raised on such land” means that
those products or by-products are raised on the farm
operation where the preparation occurs or on other farm land
provided the preparation is occurring only on land being
used for the primary purpose of obtaining a profit in money
from the farm use of the land.
(85) Fill.  The placement by humans of sand, gravel, earth, sediment or other material
to create new uplands or raise the elevation of land.  Activities such as diking, jetties,
groins, breakwaters (nonfloating) and dredge material can also be considered fill if
they:
(a) Involve the human placement of materials; and
(b) Create new uplands or raise the elevation of land.
(86) Flood or Flooding.  A general or temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal waters
from any source.
(87) Flood Elevation Determination.  A determination by the Administrator of the
water surface elevations of the base flood from the approved flood hazard studies.
(88) Flood Hazard Boundary Map, (FHBM).  An official map of the County furnished
by the Federal Insurance Administration, labeled a Flood Hazard Boundary Map
(FHBM) and delineating the boundaries of flood hazard areas.
(89) Floodplain.  A physical geographic term describing any land area susceptible to
being inundated by water from any source.
(90) Floodplain Management.  The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventative measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
(91) Floodplain Management Regulations.  This Floodplain ordinance, together with
building code requirements, health regulations and any combination thereof, which
provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
(92) Floodproofing.  Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real
estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their
contents.
(93) Floodway, Regulatory.  The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the waters of a base
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation.
(94) Floor, Habitable.  A floor usable for living purposes, which includes working,
sleeping, eating, cooking or recreation, or a combination thereof.  A floor used only
for storage purposes is not a habitable floor.
(95) Foredune.  The first ridge of sand or hummock dunes situated immediately above
the highest tide line and parallel to the beach.  This includes active foredunes,
conditionally stable foredunes and older foredunes.  These may be sparsely vegetated

May 5, 2026 16-37 LC16.090-100
or vegetated to the degree that they are wind stable.  Soil types are Heceta fine sand
204A and Westport soils 205C and 206D.
(96) Foredune, Active.  An unstable barrier ridge of sand paralleling the beach and
subject to wind erosion, water erosion, and growth from new sand deposits.  Active
foredunes may include areas with beach grass, and occur in sand spits and at river
mouths as well as elsewhere.
(97) Foredune, Conditionally Stable.  An active foredune that has ceased growing in
height and that has become conditionally stable with regard to wind erosion.
(98) Foredune, Older.  A conditionally stable foredune that has become wind
stabilized by diverse vegetation and soil development.
(99) Forest Operation.  Any commercial activity relating to the growing or harvesting
of any forest tree species as defined in ORS 527.620(6).
(100) Forest Uses.  Forest uses are:
(a) the production of trees and the processing of forest products;
(b) open space, buffers from noise and visual separation of conflicting uses;
(c) watershed protection and wildlife and fisheries habitat;
(d) soil protection from wind and water;
(e) maintenance of clean air and water;
(f) outdoor recreational activities and related support services and wilderness values
compatible with these uses; and
(g) grazing land for livestock.
(101) Freeboard.  A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for
purposes of floodplain management.
(102) Garage, Private Parking.  A publicly or privately-owned structure having one or
more tiers of height used for the parking of automobiles for the tenants, employees or
owners of the property for which the parking spaces contained in or on said garage
are required by this chapter, and which is not open for use by the general public.
(103) Garage, Public Parking.  A publicly or privately-owned structure having one or
more tiers of height used for the parking of automobiles and open for use by the
general public, either free or for remuneration.  Public parking garages may include
parking spaces for customers, patrons or clients which are required by this chapter,
provided said parking spaces are clearly identified as free parking space(s) for the
building or use which is required to provide said space(s).
(104) General Merchandise.  Items for human use, including:  books and stationary,
newspapers and magazines, clothing, furniture, drugs, curios and antiques, plants and
flowers, household goods and furnishings, musical instruments and supplies, seeds
and garden supplies, sporting goods, jewelry, art objects and supplies, pottery,
handicrafts, photographic supplies, optical goods.
(105) Grazing.  The use of land for the pasture of horses, cattle, sheep, goats and/or
other domestic herbivorous animals alone or in conjunction with agricultural pursuits.
(106) Grazing, Low Intensity.  Low intensity grazing is the use of land for pasture of
horses, cattle, sheep, goats and/or other domestic herbivores at levels which will not
damage permanent ground cover.
(107) Ground Disturbance. Synonymous with the definition of topographic
modification.

May 5, 2026 16-38 LC16.090-100
(108) Group Care Home.  Any home or institution maintained and operated for the
care, boarding, housing or training of six or more physically, mentally or socially
handicapped persons or delinquent or dependent persons by any person who is not
the parent or guardian of and who is not related by blood, marriage or legal adoption
to such persons.
(109) Guest House, Employee Quarters.  An accessory building without a kitchen or
cooking facilities and occupied solely by nonpaying guests or by a person or persons
employed on the premises.  As used in the F-1, F-2, and EFU zones, means an
accessory building without a kitchen or cooking facilities and solely occupied by
nonpaying guests.
(110) Hearings Official.  A person who has been appointed by the Board of County
Commissioners to serve at its pleasure and at a salary fixed by it.
(111) Historic Property.  Real property currently listed in the National Register of
Historic Places and/or an official state listing of historic places, and designated as a
historic site or structure in the applicable comprehensive plan.  Such property must
otherwise comply with the definition of historic property in ORS 358.480.
(112) Historic Structure or Site.  Property which had been identified by Lane County in
its adopted Rural Comprehensive Plan findings as:
(a) Historically significant.
(b) In need of protection in order to preserve its historical significance, and for which
the means of protection shall be the application of the Historic Structures or Sites
Combining (/H-RCP) Zone.
The above sites are also identified separately in LM 11.300.
(113) Horticultural Specialties.  A crop distinguishable from typical commercial crops
mentioned in the farm groupings of the EFU zone which are conducive to intensive
management techniques.
(114) Housing. A dwelling that is subject to clear and objective standards, conditions
and procedures. Housing is limited to land within unincorporated communities as
designated by the Lane County Comprehensive Plan after December 5, 1994,
nonresource lands, and areas zoned for rural residential uses. Housing does not
include residential accessory structures or development ancillary to a dwelling, such
as motor vehicle access and on-site wastewater treatment systems.
(115) Hydraulic.  Related to the movement or pressure of water.
(116) Hydraulic hazards.  Hydraulic hazards are those associated with erosion or
sedimentation caused by the action of water flowing in a river or streambed, or
oceanic currents and waves.
(117) Hydraulic processes.  Actions resulting from the effect of moving water or water
pressure on the bed, banks, and shorelands of water bodies (oceans, estuaries,
streams, lakes and rivers).
(118) Improvement Agreement.  An agreement that under prescribed circumstances may
be used in lieu of required improvements of a performance agreement.  It is a written
agreement that is executed between the County and a developer, in a form approved by
the Board of County Commissioners, in which the developer agrees to sign at a time any
and all petitions, consents, etc., and all other documents necessary to improve an abutting
road or other required improvements to County standards and to waive all rights or
remonstrances against such improvements, in exchange for which the County agrees that

May 5, 2026 16-39 LC16.090-100
the execution of the improvement agreement will be deemed to be in compliance with the
improvement requirements of the Code.
(119) Indigenous Vegetation.  Plant species not introduced directly or indirectly into a
particular area from the outside.  Originating or developing or produced naturally in a
particular area.
(120) Intensification.  Any additions which increase or expand the area or amount of an
existing use or the level of activity.  Remodeling of the exterior of a structure is an
intensification when it will substantially alter the appearance of the structure.
Intensification shall not include the completion of a structure for which a valid permit
was issued as of December 5, 1975.
(121) Interdune Area.  Low-lying areas between higher sand landforms and which are
generally under water during part of the year.
(122) Interior Lot.  A lot, other than a corner lot, having frontage on only one street.
(123) Intertidal.  Between the levels of mean lower low tide (MLLT) and mean higher
high tide (MHHT).
(124) Irrigated. Watered by an artificial or controlled means, such as sprinklers,
furrows, ditches, or spreader dikes. An area or tract is "irrigated" if it is currently
watered, or has established rights to use water for irrigation, including such tracts that
receive water for irrigation from a water or irrigation district or other provider. For
the purposes of this chapter, an area or tract within a water or irrigation district that
was once irrigated shall continue to be considered "irrigated" even if the irrigation
water was removed or transferred to another tract.
(125) Jetty.  A structure extending seaward from the mouth of a river designed to
stabilize the river mouth by preventing the build-up of material at the river’s mouth,
and to direct or confine the stream or tidal flow.
(126) Kennel; Commercial.  A place of business where dogs are boarded.  No more
than two of the dogs shall be used for breeding.  The term is not intended to include
an animal hospital or noncommercial kennel.
(127) Kennel; Commercial Breeding.  A place of business for the breeding and/or
selling of dogs.  The term is not intended to include an animal hospital or
noncommercial kennel.
(128) Kennel; Noncommercial.  An establishment or premises where three or more
dogs, over six months of age, are kept or maintained.  No more than two of the dogs
shall be used for breeding.  The term does not include any animal hospital.
(129) Lawfully Established Unit of Land.
(a) A lot or parcel created pursuant to ORS 92.010 to 92.192; or
(b) Another unit of land:
(i) Created in compliance with all applicable planning, zoning and
subdivision or partition ordinances and regulations; or
(ii) Created by deed or land sales contract, if there were no
applicable planning, zoning or subdivision or partition
ordinances or regulations; or
(iii) That received legal lot verification from the County and was
noticed pursuant LC 13.140.
(c) 'Lawfully established unit of land' does not mean a unit of land created solely to
establish a separate tax account.

May 5, 2026 16-40 LC16.090-100
(d) A lot or parcel lawfully created shall remain a discrete lot or parcel, unless the lot
or parcel lines are vacated or the lot or parcel is further divided, as provided by
law.
(130) Legal Interest.  An interest in property not confined solely to ownership or
possessory interest, but including all interests in property which in the discretion of
the Planning Director, are not inconsistent with the intent and purposes of this
chapter.  Such interests may include, but are not limited to, the following: owner,
contract purchaser, lessee, renter, licensee, easement, resolution or ordinance of
necessity to acquire or condemn adopted by a public or private condemnor.
(131) Legal Lot.  A lawfully created lot or parcel.  A lot or parcel lawfully created shall
remain a discrete lot or parcel, unless the lot or parcel lines are vacated or the lot or
parcel is further divided as provided by law.
(132) Loading Space.  An off street space or berth on the same lot with a building for
the temporary parking of a commercial vehicle while loading or unloading
merchandise or materials and which abuts upon a street, alley or other appropriate
means of access.
(133) Lot.  A unit of land that is created by a subdivision of land.
(134) Lot Line; Front.  The private property line contiguous with the public street line
or place.  For corner lots, the front lot line shall be the narrowest street frontage or as
shown on the official plat of the property.
(135) Lot Line; Rear.  A lot line which is opposite and most distant from the front lot
line.  In the case of a triangular-shaped lot, the rear lot line for building purposes
shall be assumed to be a line 10 feet in length within the lot, parallel to and at the
maximum distance from the front lot line.
(136) Lot Line; Side.  Any lot line which is not a front or rear line.
(137) Lot of Record.  A legal lot which meets all of the lot of record standards
specified in ORS Chapter 215 (Sections 9 to 13, Chapter 884, Oregon Laws) and is
entitled to a dwelling or mobile home irrespective of land use regulations.
(138) Lowest Floor.  The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement).  An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a basement area, is not
considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such enclosure is not built so as to
render the structure in violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements.
(139) Low Intensity.  An activity or use conducted at a level that does not require
developed facilities and can be accommodated without change to an area or resource.
(140) Main Channel.  That part of a waterway which extends upstream from the
entrance channel into the estuary proper (also called “inner channel”).  All or
segments of the main channel may be maintained by dredging.  The main channel
does not include auxiliary channels or waterways.
(141) Maintain.  Support, keep, and continue in an existing state or condition without
decline.
(142) Maintained Channels and Jetties.  Only those channels or jetties authorized by
Congress and which are periodically rehabilitated to deepen or stabilize the
watercourse.
(143) Manufactured Dwelling. A residential trailer, mobile home, or manufactured
home. “Manufactured dwelling” does not include any building or structure

May 5, 2026 16-41 LC16.090-100
constructed to conform the State of Oregon Structural Specialty Code or the Low-
Rise Residential Dwelling Code adopted pursuant to ORS 455.100 (Duties of
director) to 455.450 (Prohibited acts) and 455.610 (Low-Rise Residential Dwelling
Code) to 455.630 (Enforcement) or any unit identified as a recreational vehicle by the
manufacturer.
(144) Manufactured Home.  A structure constructed for movement on the public
highways that has sleeping, cooking and plumbing facilities, that is intended for
human occupancy, that is being used for residential purposes and that was
constructed in accordance with federal manufactured housing construction and safety
standards and regulations in effect at the time of construction. For purposes of
implementing any contract pertaining to manufactured homes between the
department and the federal government, "manufactured home" has the meaning given
the term in the contract. The term "manufactured home" is synonymous with
“manufactured dwelling,” but does not include a "recreational vehicle."
(145) Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision.  A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
(146) Manufactured Structure.  A structure that is designed or able to be relocatable,
including but not limited to mobile home and recreational vehicles.  The term does
not apply to any building or structure regulated under the State of Oregon Structural
Specialty Code.
(147) Map, Partition.  A final diagram and other documentation relating to a major or
minor partition.
(148) Marijuana.  The plant Cannabis family Cannabaceae, any part of the plant
Cannabis family Cannabaceae and the seeds of the plant Cannabis family
Cannabaceae.  “Marijuana” does not include industrial hemp, as defined in ORS
571.300. (OAR 845-025-1015(24))
(149) Marijuana processing.  A use where a marijuana processor processes marijuana.
(a) For the purpose of this definition the term “marijuana processor” means a person
who processes marijuana items in the State of Oregon.  (OAR 845-025-
1015(28)).
(b) For the purpose of this definition the term “processes” means the processing,
compounding, or conversion of marijuana into cannabinoid products,
cannabinoid concentrates or cannabinoid extracts. (OAR 845-025-1015(39)).
(c) In accordance with ORS 215.213(1)(u), a facility for processing farm crops may
be allowed in an Exclusive Farm Use (EFU) zone as part of the marijuana
production use:
(i) If the processing facility is located on a farm operation that provides at least
one-quarter of the farm crops processed at the facility
(ii) If a building is established or used for the processing facility or
establishment, the farm operator may not devote more than 10,000 square
feet of floor area to the processing facility or establishment, exclusive of the
floor area designated for preparation, storage or other farm use.
(iii) A processing facility or establishment must comply with all applicable siting
standards.
(150) Marijuana production.

May 5, 2026 16-42 LC16.090-100
(a) A use where a marijuana producer, produces marijuana.  This use is considered a
farm use, as that term is defined in ORS 215.203.  Additionally, the mature
marijuana is considered a crop and farm product as it related to the terms “farm”,
and “farming practice”, as those terms are applied in ORS 30.930.
(b) Drying and storage of marijuana by a marijuana producer is considered
“preparation” of a farm product and is included as part of the definition of farm
use in OAR 660-033-0020(7)(b)(A).
(c) “Preparation” of a farm product also includes cleaning, treatment, sorting, or
packaging.
(d) Wholesale distribution of a farm crop is allowed as part of a farm use, as defined
in ORS 215.203(2)(a) as “disposal by marketing or otherwise of the products…”.
(e) For the purpose of this definition the term “produces” means the manufacture,
planting, cultivation, growing, or harvesting of marijuana. OAR 845-025-
1015(42))
(i) The definition of “produces” does not include:
(aa) Drying of marijuana by a marijuana processor, if
the marijuana processor is not otherwise producing
marijuana.
(bb) The cultivation and growing of an immature
marijuana plant by a marijuana processor, marijuana
wholesaler or marijuana retailer if the marijuana
processor, marijuana wholesaler or marijuana retailer
purchased or otherwise received the plant from a
licensed marijuana producer.
(f) For the purpose of this definition the term “marijuana producer” means a person
who produces marijuana in the State of Oregon. (OAR 845-025-1015(29))
(151) Marijuana research.  A use that includes those activities specified in an OLCC
approved research proposal that are conducted by qualified public or private
researchers that are in possession of a valid OLCC Marijuana Research Certificate
pursuant to ORS 845-025-5300.
(152) Marijuana retail sales.  A use where marijuana is bought and sold by a marijuana
retailer.
(a) For the purpose of this definition the term “marijuana retailer” means a person
who sells marijuana items to a consumer in the State of Oregon.  (OAR 845-025-
1015(30))
(153) Marijuana testing laboratory.  A use that includes the testing of marijuana in a
laboratory certified by the authority under ORS 438.605 to 438.620 and for the
purposes specified within OAR 845-025.
(154) Marijuana wholesale distribution.  A use where marijuana is bought and sold by a
marijuana wholesaler.  This use includes packaging and labeling.
(a) For the purpose of this definition the term “marijuana wholesaler” means a
person who purchases marijuana items in the State of Oregon for resale to a
person other than a consumer.  (OAR 845-025-1015(31))
(155) Marsh, High Salt.  Includes immature high marsh, mature high marsh and diked
salt marsh.  These marshes are from two to three feet above tide flat areas and are
characterized by at least occasional tidal inundation at higher, high tides or, in the

May 5, 2026 16-43 LC16.090-100
case of diked salt marshes, more infrequently with the opening of tide gates or with
periodic flooding.
(156) Mining.  All or any part of the process of mining by the removal of overburden
and the extraction of natural mineral deposits thereby exposed by any method
including open-pit mining operations, auger mining operations, processing, surface
impacts of underground mining, production of surface mining refuse and the
construction of adjacent or off-site borrow pits except those constructed for use as
access roads.
The term does not include excavations of sand, gravel, clay, rock or other
similar materials conducted by a landowner or tenant on the landowner's or
tenant's property for the primary purpose of reconstruction or maintenance of
access roads and excavation or grading operations conducted in the process of
farming or cemetery operations, onsite road construction or other onsite
construction or nonsurface impacts of underground mines.
(157) Minor Navigational Improvements.  Alterations necessary to provide water
access to existing or permitted uses in conservation management units, including
dredging for access channels and for maintaining existing navigation but excluding
fill and in-water navigational structures other than floating breakwaters or similar
permeable wave barriers.
(158) Mitigation.  For the purposes of LC 16.234 (NE-RCP), 16.235 (CE-RCP), 16.236
(DE-RCP); the creation, restoration, or enhancement of an estuarine area to maintain
the functional characteristics and processes of the estuary, such as its natural
biological characteristics and processes of the estuary, such as its natural biological
productivity, habitats, and species diversity, unique features and water quality.
(159) Mobile Home.  A structure constructed for movement on the public highways,
that has sleeping, cooking and plumbing facilities, is intended for human occupancy
and is being used for residential purposes and was constructed between January 1,
1962 and June 15, 1976, and met the construction requirements of Oregon mobile
home law in effect at the time of construction.
(160) Mobile Home Park.  Any place where four or more mobile homes are located
within 500 feet of one another on a lot, tract or parcel of land under the same
ownership, the primary purpose of which is to rent space or keep space for rent to any
person for a charge or fee paid or to be paid for the rental or use of facilities or to
offer space free in connection with securing the trade or patronage of such person.
"Mobile Home Park" does not include a lot or lots located within a subdivision being
rented or leased for occupancy by no more than one mobile home per lot if the
subdivision was approved by the local government unit having jurisdiction under an
ordinance adopted pursuant to ORS 92.010 to 92.160.
(161) Natural Areas. Includes land and water that has substantially retained its natural
character, which is an important habitat for plant, animal, or marine life.  Such areas
are not necessarily completely natural or undisturbed, but can be significant for the
study of natural historical, scientific, or paleontological features, or for the
appreciation of natural features.
(162) Natural Hazards.  Natural events that are known to result in death or endanger the
works of man, such as stream flooding, ocean flooding, groundwater, erosion and

May 5, 2026 16-44 LC16.090-100
deposition, landslides, earthquakes, weak foundation soils and other hazards unique
to local or regional areas.
(163) Nursing Home.  Any home, place or institution which operates and maintains
facilities providing convalescent or chronic care, or both, which exceeds that as
defined by "Residential Home".
(164) Ocean Flooding.  The flooding of lowland areas by salt water owing to tidal
action, storm surge, or tsunamis (seismic sea waves).  Land forms subject to ocean
flooding include beaches, marshes, coastal lowlands, and low-lying interdune areas.
Areas of ocean flooding are mapped by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA).  Ocean flooding includes areas of velocity flooding and associated shallow
marine flooding.
(165) 100 Year Flood.  See "Base Flood".
(166) Ordinary High Water Line.  The ordinary high water line is defined as the line on
the bank or shore of a river or water body which is attained during mean annual
flood.  It does not include levels attained during exceptional or catastrophic floods.  It
is often identifiable by physical characteristics such as a clear natural line impressed
on the bank, shelving, changes in character in the soil, destruction or absence of
vegetation not adapted for life in saturated soils or the presence of flotsam and debris.
In the absence of identifying physical characteristics, the ordinary high water line
may be determined by Step backwater analysis upon a two-year frequency flood as
determined by the US Army Corps of Engineers.
(167) Ordinary Low Water Line.  The ordinary low water line of a river is that point to
which the waters normally recede when the volume of water is at its low level, not
determined by the extraordinary year, and further means the line to which the
Willamette River ordinarily recedes annually in season even though the elevation of
that line may be higher as a result of the Corps of Engineers' flood control structures
than would otherwise be the case without such structures.  Submersible lands are also
considered that land or bank area between the ordinary low and high water line.
(168) Outdoor Advertising and Structure.  Any card, cloth, paper, metal, wood, plastic
or painted sign of any kind or character whatsoever, placed for outdoor advertising
purpose on the ground, on any tree, wall, rock, post, fence, building or structure.  The
term "placed" as used in this definition of "Outdoor Advertising Sign" and "Outdoor
Advertising Structure" shall include erecting, constructing, posting, painting,
printing, tacking, nailing, gluing, sticking, carving or otherwise fastening, affixing or
making visible in any manner whatsoever.
(169) Outdoor Mass Gathering. A gathering, as defined by ORS 433.735, that is an
actual or reasonably anticipated assembly of more than 3,000 persons which
continues or can reasonably be expected to continue for more than 24 consecutive
hours but less than 120 hours within any three-month period and which is held
primarily in open spaces and not in any permanent structure. Any decision for a
permit to hold an outdoor mass gathering as defined by statute is not a land use
decision and is appealable to circuit court. Outdoor mass gatherings do not include
agri-tourism events and activities as provided for by ORS 215.283(4).
(170) Panhandle.  A narrow extension of a tract, 60 feet or less in width, which is used
as access to the main portion of the tract.
(171) Parcel.

May 5, 2026 16-45 LC16.090-100
(a) Includes a unit of land created:
(i) by partitioning land as defined in LC 16.090,
(ii) in compliance with all applicable planning, zoning, and
partitioning ordinances and regulations; or
(iii) by deed or land sales contract if there are no applicable planning,
zoning or partitioning ordinances or regulations.
(b) It does not include a unit of land created solely to establish a separate
tax account.
(172) Parking Area, Automobile.  Space within a public parking area or a building,
exclusive of driveways, ramps, columns, office and work areas, for the temporary
parking or storage of one automobile.
(173) Parking Area, Private.  Privately or publicly-owned property, other than streets
and alleys, on which parking spaces are defined, designated or otherwise identified
for use by the tenants, employees or owners of the property for which the parking
area is required by this chapter and which is not open for use by the general public.
(174) Parking Area, Public.  Privately or publicly-owned property, other than streets or
alleys, on which parking spaces are defined, designated or otherwise identified for
use by the general public, either free or for remuneration.  Public parking areas may
include parking lots for retail customers, patrons and/or clients as required by this
chapter.
(175) Parking Space.  A  permanently  maintained  space with proper access for one
standard sized automobile.
(176) Partition.  Either an act of partitioning land or an area or tract of land partitioned.
(177) Partitioning Land.  Dividing land to create not more than three parcels of land
within a calendar year, but does not include:
(a) Dividing land as a result of a lien foreclosure, foreclosure of a recorded contract
for the sale of real property or the creation of cemetery lots;
(b) Adjusting a property line as property line adjustment is defined in Lane Code
16.090;
(c) Dividing land as a result of the recording of a subdivision or condominium plat;
(d) Selling or granting by a person to a public agency or public body of property for
state highway, County road, city street or other right-of-way purposes if the road
or right-of-way complies with the Lane County Rural Comprehensive plan and
ORS 215.213(2)(p) to (r) and 215.283(2)(q) to (s). However, any property sold or
granted for state highway, county road, city street or other right of way purposes
shall continue to be considered a single unit of land until the property is further
subdivided or partitioned; or
(e) Selling or granting by a public agency or public body of excess property resulting
from the acquisition of land by the state, a political subdivision or special district
for highways, county roads, city streets or other right of way purposes when the
sale or grant is part of a property line adjustment incorporating the excess right of
way into adjacent property. The property line adjustment shall be approved or
disapproved by the Planning Director. If the property line adjustment is
approved, it shall be recorded in the deed records of the county where the
property is located.

May 5, 2026 16-46 LC16.090-100
(178) Performance Agreement.  A written agreement executed by a subdivider or
partitioner in a form approved by the Board of Commissioners and accompanied by a
security also approved by the Board.  The security shall be of sufficient amount to
ensure the faithful performance and completion of all required improvements in a
specified period of time.
(179) Person.  A natural person, or the heirs, executors, administrators or assigns of the
natural person; or a firm, partnership or corporation, its heirs or successors or assigns;
or the agent of any of the aforesaid; or any political subdivision, agency, board or
bureau of the State.
(180) Personal Services.  Laundering, dry cleaning and dyeing; rug cleaning and repair;
photographic services; beauty and barber shops; apparel repair and alterations; shoe
repair and maintenance; etc.
(181) Planning Commission.  The Planning Commission of Lane County, Oregon.
(182) Plat.  A final diagram and other documents relating to a subdivision.
(183) Prefabricated Structure.  A building or structural unit that has been in whole or
substantial part manufactured at an offsite location to be wholly or partially
assembled on site, but does not include a mobile home, trailer or recreational vehicle.
Prefabricated structures are regulated under the State of Oregon Structural Specialty
Code.
(184) Preparation.  See “farm use” definition.
(185) Primary Processing Facility.  A facility for the primary processing of forest
products.  The primary processing of a forest product means the use of a portable
chipper, stud mill or other similar equipment for the initial treatment of a forest
product, to facilitate its shipment for further processing.  Forest products, as used in
this definition, means timber and other resources grown upon the land or contiguous
units of land where the primary processing facility is located.
(186) Processed.  As it applies to farm stands, processed crops and livestock means
farm products that have been converted into other products through canning, drying,
baking, freezing, pressing, butchering or other similar means of adding value to the
farm product, including the addition of incidental ingredients, but not including the
conversion of farm products into food items that are prepared on-site or intended for
on-site consumption
(187) Professional Services.  Medical and health services, legal services and other
professional services, including those related to:  engineering, architecture, education,
scientific research, accounting, planning, real estate, etc.
(188) Property Line.  “Property line” means the division line between two units of land.
(189) Property Line Adjustment.  A relocation or elimination of all or a portion of a
common property line between abutting properties that does not create an additional
lot or parcel.
(190) Received.  Acquired by or taken into possession by the Director.
(191) Recreation.  Any experience voluntarily engaged in largely during leisure
(discretionary time) from which the individual derives satisfaction.
(a) Low-Intensity Recreation.  Activities that do not require developed facilities and
can be accommodated without change to the area or resource.  For example,
boating, hunting, hiking, wildlife photography, and beach or shore activities can
be low-intensity recreation.

May 5, 2026 16-47 LC16.090-100
(b) High-Intensity Recreation.  Uses specifically built facilities, or occurs in such
density or form that it requires or results in a modification of the area or resource.
Campgrounds, concentrated OHV use, golf courses, public beaches, and marinas
are examples of high-intensity recreation.
(192) Recreational Vehicle.  A vacation trailer or other unit, with or without motive
power, built on a single chassis and which is designed for human occupancy and to
be used temporarily for recreational camping, seasonal or emergency purposes and
has a floor space of less than 400 square feet, when measured at the largest horizontal
projections, is designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck.  The term includes camping trailers, camping vehicles, motor homes, park
trailers, bus conversions, van conversions, tent trailers, travel trailers, truck campers
and any vehicle converted for use or partial use as a recreational vehicle.  The unit
shall be identified as a recreational vehicle by the manufacturer or converter.
(193) Recreational Vehicle Park.  A development designed primarily for transient
service on which travel trailers, pickup campers, tent trailers and self-propelled
motorized vehicles are parked and used for the purpose of supplying to the public a
temporary location while traveling, vacationing or recreating.
(194) Refinement Plan.  Refinement plans are a detailed examination of the service
needs and land use problems peculiar to a particular area.  Refinements of the
Comprehensive Plan can include specific neighborhood or community plans, or
special purpose or functional plans (such as water, sewer or transportation plans).  In
addition, refinement plan can be in the form of major planned unit developments,
annexation and zoning applications, or other special area studies.
(195) Removal.  The act of removing or fact of being removed by a person:  i.e., to cut
the main stem or trunk of vegetation or to spray the foliage of vegetation which
results in the significant loss of growth or health or the death of vegetation; to
mechanically or manually disrupt or dislodge the root structure of vegetation
resulting in significant loss of growth or health or causing the death of vegetation.
(196) Replacement in Kind.  The replacement of a structure of the same size as the
original and at the same location on the property as the original.
(197) Residential Care Facility.  As authorized and regulated by state law, a care
facility licensed by or under the authority of the Department of Human Resources
under ORS 443.400 to 443.460 which provides residential care alone or in
conjunction with treatment or training or a combination thereof for six to 15
individuals who need not be related.  Staff persons required to meet DHR licensing
requirements shall not be counted in the number of facility residents, and need not be
related to each other or to any resident of the facility.
(198) Residential Home.  As authorized and regulated by state law, a care facility
licensed by or under the authority of the Department of Human Resources under ORS
443.400 to 443.460 which provides residential care alone or in conjunction with
treatment or training or a combination thereof for five or fewer individuals who need
not be related.  Staff persons required to meet DHR licensing requirements shall not
be counted in the number of facility residents, and need not be related to each other
or to any resident of the facility.

May 5, 2026 16-48 LC16.090-100
(199) Restoration, Active.  Use of specific positive remedial actions, such as removing
fills, installing water treatment facilities or rebuilding deteriorated urban waterfront
areas.
(200) Restoration, Estuarine.  Revitalizing, returning or replacing original attributes
and amenities such as natural biological productivity, aesthetic and cultural
resources, which have been diminished or lost by past alterations, activities or
catastrophic events.  For the purposes of LC 16.234 (NE-RCP), 16.235 (CE-RCP),
16.236 (DE-RCP); estuarine restoration means to revitalize or reestablish functional
characteristics and processes of the estuary diminished or lost by past alterations,
activities, or catastrophic events.  A restored area must be a shallow subtidal or an
intertidal or tidal marsh area after alteration work is performed, and may not have
been a functioning part of the estuarine system when alteration work began.
(201) Restoration, Passive.  The use of natural processes, sequences and timing which
occurs after the removal or reduction of adverse stresses without other specific
positive remedial action.
(202) Restoration, Shorelands.  Revitalizing, returning or replacing original attributes
and amenities such as natural biological productivity, aesthetic and cultural
resources, which have been diminished or lost by past alterations, activities or
catastrophic .events.  For the purposes of LC 16.237 (/SN-RCP), 16.238 (/PW-RCP),
16.239 (/NRC-RCP), 16.240 (/RD-RCP), 16.241 (/MD; shoreland restoration means
to revitalize or reestablish functional characteristics and processes of the shoreland
diminished or lost by past alterations, activities, or catastrophic events.
(203) Riprap.  A layer, facing, or protective mound of stones randomly placed to
prevent erosion, scour or sloughing of a structure or embankment; also , the stone so
used.
(204) Roadside Stand.  A use providing for the retail sale of any agricultural produce
where more than one-half of the gross receipts result from the sale of produce grown
on the unit of land where the roadside stand is located.
(205) Rural Land.  Land outside urban growth boundaries that is:
(a) Non-urban agricultural, forest or open space;
(b) Suitable for sparse settlement, small farms or acreage homesites with no or
minimal public services, and not suitable, necessary or intended for urban use; or
(c) In an unincorporated community.
(206) School.  A place or institution for learning and teaching in which regularly
scheduled and suitable instruction meeting the standards of the Oregon State Board
of Education is provided.
(207) Seasonal Farm Worker Housing.  Housing limited in occupancy by seasonal farm
workers and their immediate families, which is occupied no more than nine months a
calendar year.  "Seasonal farm worker" means any person who, for an agreed
remuneration or rate of pay, performs temporary labor for another to work in
production of farm products or planting, cultivating or harvesting of seasonal
agricultural crops or in forestation or reforestation of lands, including but not limited
to the planting, transplanting, tubing, pre-commercial thinning and thinning of trees
and seedlings, the clearing, piling and disposal of brush and slash and other related
activities.

May 5, 2026 16-49 LC16.090-100
(208) Service Station.  Any building, land area or other premises, or portion thereof,
used or intended to be used for the retail dispensing or sales of vehicular fuels; and
including as an accessory use the sale and installation of lubricants, tires, batteries
and similar accessories.
(209) Setback/Set Back. The horizontal separation between two or more specified
features. The setback is a straight line perpendicular to one of the features separated
by the required setback distance, unless otherwise noted in Lane Code Chapter 16.
(210) Sewerage Facility or Sewage Facility.  The sewers, drains, treatment and disposal
works and other facilities useful or necessary in the collection, treatment or disposal
of sewage, industrial wastes, garbage or other wastes.
(a) Sewerage Facility, Community.  A sewerage facility, whether publicly or
privately owned, which serves more than one parcel or lot.
(b) Sewerage Facility, Individual.  A privately owned sewage facility which serves a
single parcel or lot for the purpose of disposal of domestic waste products.
(c) Sewerage Facility, Public.  A sewerage facility, whether publicly or privately
owned, which serves users for the purpose of disposal of sewage and which
facility is provided for or is available for public use.
(211) Shelter Home.  A certified foster home or a licensed facility contracted with the
state Childrens' Services Division for the purpose of safekeeping of children taken
into temporary custody pending investigation and disposition, where the
circumstances are such that the children need not be kept in secure custody.
(212) Sign.  Any fabricated sign for use outdoors, including its structure, consisting of
any letter(s), figure, character, mark, point, plane, design, poster, picture, stroke,
stripe, line, trademark, reading matter or illuminating device which is constructed,
attached, erected, fastened or manufactured in any manner whatsoever to attract the
public in any manner for recognized purposes to any place, subject, person, firm,
corporation, public performance, article, machine or merchandise display.  However,
the term "sign" shall not include any display of official, court or public notices, nor
shall it include the flag, emblem or insignia of a nation, government unit, school or
religious group, except such emblems shall conform to illumination standards set
forth in this chapter.
(213) Site, Residential.  An area of more or less intensive development, surrounding a
dwelling, not less than 60 feet wide, nor less than 6,000 square feet in area and
comparable to a normal city lot.
(214) Solid Waste Management. A planned program providing for the collection,
storage and disposal of solid waste including, where appropriate, recycling and
recovery.
(215) Start of Construction.  Includes substantial improvement and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, placement or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit
date.  The actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the state of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.  Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include
the installation of streets and/or walkways., nor does it include excavation for a

May 5, 2026 16-50 LC16.090-100
basement, footings, piers or foundation, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does
it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or
sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.
(216) State Plane Coordinate System.  The system of plane coordinates which has been
established by the U.S. Coast & Geodetic Survey for defining and stating the
positions or locations of points on the surface of the earth within the State of Oregon.
(217) Structure.  Synonymous with the definition of building.
(218) Structure in a Flood Hazard Area.  A walled and roofed building, a mobile home
or a tank used in the storage of gas or liquid which is principally above ground.
(219) Structure or Facility that Provides Water-Dependent Access.  For the purposes of
LC 16.234 (NE-RCP), 16.235 (CE-RCP), 16.236 (DE-RCP), 16.237 (/SN-RCP), 16.238
(/PW-RCP), 16.239 (/NRC-RCP),  16.240 (/RD-RCP), 16.241 (/MD-RCP), 16.242
(/DMS-RCP), and 16.243 (/BD-RCP); anything constructed or installed, regardless of its
present condition, functionality or serviceability, that provides or provided water
dependent uses with physical access to the adjacent coastal water body.  Examples
include wharves, piers, docks, mooring piling, boat ramps, water intake or discharge
structures, or navigational aids.  For the purposes of this specific definition, “access”
means physical contact with or use of the water.
(220) Subdivide Land.  To divide an area or tract of land into four or more lots within a
calendar year.
(221) Subdivision.  Either an act of subdividing land or an area or a tract of land
subdivided as defined in this section.
(222) Substantial Damage.  Damage sustained by a structure or manufactured home
whereby the cost of restoring the structure or manufactured home to its before-
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the
structure or manufactured home before the damage occurred.
(223) Substantial Improvement.  Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the
structure either, (a) before the improvement or repair is started, or (b) if the structure has
been damaged, and is being restored, before the damage occurred.  For the purpose of
this definition "substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration
of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences, whether or
not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.  The term does not,
however, include either (1) any project or improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions, or (2) any alteration of a structure listed on the
National Register of Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
(224) Temporary Alteration.  Dredging, filling, or another estuarine alteration
occurring over a specified short period of time THAT is needed to facilitate a use
allowed by an acknowledged plan.  Temporary alterations may not be for more than
three years and the affected area must be restored to its previous condition.
Temporary alterations include:  (1) Alterations necessary for federally authorized
projects (e.g., access to dredged material disposal sites by barge or pipeline and
staging areas or dredging for jetting maintenance; (2) Alterations to establish
mitigation sites, alterations for bridge construction or repair and for drilling or other

May 5, 2026 16-51 LC16.090-100
exploratory operations; and (3) minor structures (such as blinds) necessary for
research and educational observation.
(225) Tidal Marsh.  Wetlands from lower high water (LHW) inland to the line of non-
aquatic vegetation.
(226) Tract.
(a) A lot or parcel as defined in LC 16.090.
(b) For the purposes of LC 16.211, “Tract” means one or more contiguous lots or
parcels in the same ownership.  A tract is not considered to consist of less than
the required acreage because it is crossed by a public road or waterway.
(227) Topographic Modification. Any change made to the natural land surface,
including grading, excavation, filling, and the removal of vegetation that alters the
original contours or elevation of the site.
(228) Urban.  Those places which must have an incorporated city.  Such areas may
include lands adjacent to and outside the incorporated city and may also:  (a) have
concentrations of persons who generally reside and work in the area, and (b) have
supporting public facilities and services.
(229) Urbanizable.  Those lands within an urban growth boundary and which are
identified and (a) determined to be necessary and suitable for future urban use areas,
and (b) can be served by urban services and facilities, and (c) are needed for the
expansion of an urban area.
(230) Use.  The purpose for which land, submerged or submersible lands, the water
surface or a building is arranged, designed or intended, or for which either land or
building is or may be occupied or maintained.
(231) Vegetation Removal/Removal of Vegetation. Means the removal of plant roots
from the ground; the removal or damage of any live plant material, such as cutting,
pulling, grading, trampling, girdling, application of herbicides, burning, and
placement of a physical barrier in the form of ground covering; and ground
disturbance such as grading or resurfacing, and depositing of gravel or other fill
material.
(232) Veterinary Clinic.  Synonymous with the definition of “animal hospital.”
(233) Water Dependent Use.  A use or activity which can be carried out only on, in or
adjacent to water areas because the use requires access to the water body for
waterborne transportation, recreation, energy production or source of water.
(a) For the purposes of LC 16.234 (NE-RCP), 16.235 (CE-RCP), 16.236 (DE-RCP),
16.237 (/SN-RCP), 16.238 (/PW-RCP), 16.239 (/NRC-RCP), 16.240 (/RD-RCP),
16.241 (/MD-RCP), 16.242 (/DMS-RCP), and 16.243 (/BD-RCP); the following
definitions apply:
(i) “Access” means physical contact with or use of the water;
(ii) “Energy production” means uses which need quantities of water
to produce energy directly (e.g. hydroelectric facilities, ocean
thermal energy conversion);
(iii) “Recreation” means water access for fishing, swimming,
boating, or similar.  Recreation uses are water dependent only if
use of the water is an integral part of the activity.

May 5, 2026 16-52 LC16.090-100
(iv) “Requires” means the use either by its intrinsic nature (e.g.,
fishing navigation, boat moorage) or at the current level of
technology cannot exist without water access;
(v) “Source of water” means facilities for the appropriation of
quantities of water for cooling, processing or other integral
functions.
(vi) “Water-borne transportation” means use of water access:
(aa) Which are themselves transportation (e.g.,
navigation);
(bb) Which require the receipt of shipment of goods by
water; or
(cc) Which are necessary to support water-borne
transportation (e.g., moorage fueling, servicing of
watercraft, ships, boats, terminal and transfer facilities.
(b) Typical examples of “water dependent uses” include the following:
(i) Aquaculture.
(2)Certain scientific and educational activities which, by their nature, require access
to coastal waters, estuarine research activities and equipment mooring and support.
(3)Commercial.  Commercial fishing marinas and support; fish processing and sales;
boat sales, rentals, and supplies.
(4)For the purposes of LC 16.234 (NE-RCP), 16.235 (CE-RCP), 16.236 (DE-RCP),
16.237 (/SN-RCP), 16.238 (/PW-RCP), 16.239 (/NRC-RCP),  16.240 (/RD-RCP),
16.241 (/MD-RCP), 16.242 (/DMS-RCP), and 16.243 (/BD-RCP); examples of uses
that are not “water dependent uses” include restaurants, hotels, motels, bed and
breakfasts, residences, parking lots not associated with water dependent uses, and
boardwalks.
(5)Industrial.  Manufacturing to include boat building and repair; water-borne
transportation, terminals, and support; energy production which needs quantities of
water to produce energy directly; water intake structures for facilities needing
quantities of water for cooling, processing, or more integral functions.
(6)Recreational.  Recreational marinas, boat ramps and support.
(234) Water Oriented Use.  A use whose attraction to the public is enhanced by a view
of or access to coastal waters.
(a) Water Related Use.  Uses which are not directly dependent upon access to a
water body, but which provide goods or services that are directly associated with
water dependent land or waterway use, and which, if not located adjacent to
water, would result in public loss of quality in the goods or services offered.
Except as necessary for water dependent or water related uses or facilities,
residences, parking lots, spoil or dump sites, roads and highways, restaurants,
businesses, factories and trailer parks are not generally considered dependent on
or related to water location needs.
(235) Wetlands.  Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or ground water
at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in
saturated soil conditions.
16.095 Lane Code 16.100

May 5, 2026 16-53 LC16.090-100
(236) Width.  The horizontal distance between the side boundary lines measured in the
mean direction of the front and rear boundary lines.
(237) Yard.  An open space on the same lot with a building unoccupied and obstructed
from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided herein.
(238) Yard, Front.  A yard between the front line of the building (exclusive of steps)
and the front property line.
(239) Yard, Rear.  An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a building between
the rear line of the building (exclusive of steps, porches and accessory buildings) and
the rear line of the lot.
(240) Yard, Side.  An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a building, between
the sidewall line of the building and the side line of the lot.
(241) Youth Camp. A facility either owned or leased, and operated by a state or local
government, or a nonprofit corporation as defined under ORS 65.001, to provide an
outdoor recreational and educational experience primarily for the benefit of persons
21 years of age and younger. Youth camps do not include any manner of juvenile
detention center or juvenile detention facility.
(242) Yurt: A round, domed shelter of cloth or canvas on a collapsible frame with no
plumbing, sewage disposal hook-up or internal cooking appliance.
 (Revised by Ordinance No. 7 -87, Effective 6.17.87; 12-87, 8.13.87; 19- 87, 10.14.87; 12-90, 10.11.90; 3 -91,
5.17.91; 10-92, 11.12.92; 12-97, 11.20.97; 5-02, 8.28.02; 10-07, 10.19.07; 2-09, 1.8.10; 6-10; 9.17.10; 7-12,
12.28.12; 14-08, 11.5.14; 14-09, 12-16-14; 15-08, 12-15-15; 16-01, 2.25.16; 18-07, 12.27.18; 20-05, 6.16.20;
20-06, 6.16.20, 25-07, 5.5.2026)

16.095 Compliance With LC Chapter 15, Roads.
Development subject to the provisions of this chapter shall comply with LC Chapter 15,
Roads.
(Revised by Ordinance No. 10-04, Effective 6.4.04)

16.096 Compliance with Erosion Prevention Code.
Development subject to the provisions of this chapter must comply with Erosion
Prevention code requirements, LC 9.090. (Revised by Ordinance No. 23-06, Effective 5.1.2024)

DEVELOPMENTAL APPROVAL PROCEDURES
RURAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN

16.100 Development.  Approval Procedures Relationship of Lane Code Chapter 14
into Lane Code Chapter 16.
Lane Code Chapter 14 is the procedure for submittal, acceptance, investigation and review
of applications for development of lands under the jurisdiction of the Lane County Rural
Comprehensive Plan with these additions:
 (1) Definitions.  Abbreviations, terms, phrases, words and their derivatives shall
be construed as specified in LC 16.090 above instead of as specified in LC 14.015.
 (2) Ex Parte Contacts.  A communication between County staff and the Planning
Commission or Board shall not be considered an ex parte conta ct for the purposes of LC
14.070(5). (Revised by Ordinance No. 7 -87, Effective 6.17.87; 12- 90, 10.11.90; 11-91A, 8.30.91; 5 -02,
8.28.02; 20-05, 6.16.20)

THIS SPACE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

16.100 Lane Code 16.100

May 5, 2026 16-54 LC16.090-100

PAGES 16-54 THROUGH 16-56
ARE RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION