June 2020 16-i
SUBDIVISION AND DIRECTION SIGNS RURAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
16.259 Subdivision and Direction Signs.
CLUSTER SUBDIVISIONS RURAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
16.260 Cluster Subdivisions.
AUTHORITY TO CHARGE FEES
RURAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
16.261 Authority to Charge Fees.
ENFORCEMENT REQUIREMENTS
RURAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
16.262 Enforcement Requirements.
ENFORCEMENT
RURAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
16.263 Failure to Comply.
TELECOMMUNICATION TOWER STANDARDS
RURAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
16.264 Telecommunication Tower Standards.
TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES AND USES RURAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
16.265 Transportation Facilities and Uses.
LC 16.280 Goshen Industrial Zones (GI, LI)

July 2013 16-2 LC 16.280
SUBDIVISION AND DIRECTION SIGNS RURAL
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN

16.259 Subdivision and Direction Signs.
 (1) Standards.
  (a) Subdivision signs announcing the division and improvement of property may be
erected within the platted subdivision area as follows:
   (i) For the first acre or fraction thereof:  One sign not exceeding 64 square feet,
which may have a su rface area on a single-face sign of 64 square feet or a surface area on a double-face
sign of 128 square feet.
  (b) Two directional signs, each being six square feet or less, being either single-or double-
faced, may be erected outside the platted subdivision area, not within the public right-of-way.
  (c) No sign shall be constructed, erected or maintained which:
   (i) Bears or contains statements, words or pictures of an obscene, indecent or
immoral character, such as will offend public morals or decency.
   (ii) Purports to be or is an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic sign or signal,
or which bears the words "STOP," "GO SLOW," "CAUTION," "DANGER," "WARNING" or similar
words.
   (iii) By reason of its size, location, movement, content , coloring or manner of
illumination may be confused with or construed as a traffic control device, or which hides from view any
traffic of street sign or signal.
   (iv) Advertises or publicizes an activity, business product or service no longer
conducted on the premises upon which such signs are maintained.
   (v) Carries a message on a rotating or moving part.  Only minor decorative parts of
signs may move or rotate.
   (vi) Uses banners, flags, posters, pennants, ribbons, streamers, strings, light bulbs or
spinners.
 (2) Procedure.  A request for a permit to erect a sign or signs in accordance with the provisions
of this section may be initiated by submitting an application in writing, on a standard form issued by the
Planning Director, duly signed by the applicant and filed with the Planning Department.
 (Revised by Ordinance
No. 7-87, Effective 6.17.87)

CLUSTER SUBDIVISIONS RURAL
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN

16.260 Cluster Subdivisions.
 (1) Purpose.  Cluster subdivisions are explicitly permitted and encouraged by various zones as
an alternative to standard subdivision development.  They are intended to promote a more efficient use of
land, retain more land in its natural state, reduce the overall land use impact of the subdivision process and
reduce the amount of roads, services and facilities needed to serve a development.
 (2) Applicability.  Cluster subdivisions are permitted uses in the following zones: RR -RCP and
RA-RCP.
 (3) Permitted Uses.
  (a) Mobile homes shall only be permitted in a cluster subdivision, if the zone applicable
to the subdivision allows mobile homes as a permitted use.
  (b) Two-family and multiple-family residences are permitted within a cluster subdivision
provided they comply with the development standards of this subsection.
 (4) Development Standards.
  (a) Lot Density.
   (i) The number of lots intended for dwellings or mobile homes within a cluster
subdivision shall not exceed the density of zones and shall be determined by dividing the gross acreage by
the minimum area requirement permitted by the zone.

July 2013 16-3 LC 16.280
   (ii) In addition to lots intended for dwellings or mobile homes, a cluster subdivision
may include a lot not intended for dwelling or mobile home use and intended for private open space and
recreation purposes.
  (b) Living Unit Density.
   (i) A single living unit shall be considered to be a single-family dwelling, a mobile
or one living unit with kitchen facilities and designed for the occupancy of one family, but sharing a
common foundation, walls and roof with one or more other units in a duplex or multiple-family dwelling.
   (ii) The ultimate number of living units permitted in a cluster subdivision shall be
determined by multiplying the number of lots permitted for dwellings or mobile homes by:
    (aa) Two, if the zone permits duplexes;
 or
    (bb) One, if only single-family dwelling or mobile homes are permitted by the
zone.
   (iii) A cluster subdivision lot shall be limited to one of the following living units:
    (aa) A mobile home.
    (bb) A single-family dwelling.
    (cc) A two-family dwelling or duplex.
    (dd) A multiple-family dwelling.
  (c) Setbacks and Lot Coverage.
   (i) Except for the setback requirements of the zone for the exterior boundaries of
the cluster subdivision, the setback and lot coverage requirements of the zone shall not apply.
   (ii) Where cluster subdivision lots intended for dwellings or mobile homes abut a
zone which does not permit a cluster subdivision, a special building setback may be established for one or
more lots.  Special build ing setback requirements shall be established only for the purposes of reducing
potential conflicts relating to fire, traffic, noise or similar human -made or natural hazards, nuisances and
for protection of natural resources and open space.  The special bu ilding setback requirement may consist
of, but is not limited to, the setback requirements of the abutting zone which does not permit cluster
subdivisions.
 (5) Application and Additional Requirements .  Cluster subdivisions shall be processed in the
same m anner and conform to the applicable provisions, standards and procedures as required for
subdivisions as provided in LC Chapter 13. (Revised by Ordinance No. 7-87, Effective 6.17.87)

AUTHORITY TO CHARGE FEES
RURAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN

16.261 Authority to Charge Fees.
 (1) The Department shall have the authority to charge fees for the purposes of defraying expenses
involved in processing applications required by this chapter.
 (2) All fees are nonrefundable, except in cases when the processing of an application was
terminated prior to the incurring of any substantial administrative expenses.  Refunds shall be made for the
amount of the fee remaining after the subtraction of processing expenses incurred by the Department.
(Revised by Ordinance No. 7-87, Effective 6.17.87)

ENFORCEMENT REQUIREMENTS
RURAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN

16.262 Enforcement Requirements.
 (1) Title, Purpose and Applicability .  The provisions of this section shall be known as the
Enforcement Requirements.  The purpose of these requireme nts is to ensure compliance with the zoning
requirements.  These provisions shall apply to the enforcement of the zoning requirements, but shall not be
deemed exclusive.

July 2013 16-4 LC 16.280
 (2) Official Action .  All officials, Departments and employees of Lane County vested with
authority to issue permits, certificates or licenses, shall adhere to and require conformance with the zoning
requirements.
 (3) Inspection and Right of Entry.  Whenever they shall have cause to suspect a violation of any
provision of the zoning requirements, or when necessary to investigation of an application for or revocation
of any zoning approval under any of the procedures prescribed in this chapter, officials responsible for
enforcement or administration of this chapter, or their duly authorized representatives, may enter on any
site or into any structure for the purpose of investigation; provided they shall do so in a reasonable manner.
No secured building shall be entered without the consent of the owner or occupant, unless under authority
of a lawful warrant.
 (4) Unauthorized Work.   If the Director discovers any person doing or causing to be done any
work without the permit required by this chapter, the Director shall notify the person to cease the act or
acts, and such person shall cease such acts until a permit is secured, and shall pay for such permit twice the
amount of the fee otherwise required.
 (5) Stop Work Orders.  Whenever any work is being done contrary to provisions of this chapter
or an approved Special Use application or other discretionary permit issued pursuant to the requirements of
any of the sections of this chapter, or the Director has probable cause to believe that any other provision of
the Lane Code is being violated in connection with the project of which the work being performed is a part,
the Director may order the work stopped by notice in writing, posted on the project, or served on any person
engaged in the doing or causing of such work to be done.  Upon the posting or service of notice, all persons
engaged in doing or causing the work to be done shall immediately stop such work until authorized by the
Director to proceed.
 (6) Abatement. Any use which is established, operated, erected, moved, altered, enlarged,
painted or maintained contrary to the zoning requireme nts shall be, and is hereby declared to be, unlawful
and a public nuisance and may be abated as such.
 (7) Enforcement Official .  It shall be the duty of the Director of the Lane County Land
Management Division, or said Director’s duly authorized represent ative, to enforce the provisions of this
chapter pertaining to land use and to the erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, moving,
removal, conversion, demolition, occupancy, equipment, use, height, area and maintenance of buildings or
structures in the County.  The enactment of this chapter shall not invalidate any prior existing or future
prosecutions for violation of the zoning requirements committed under previous applicable County
ordinances then in effect.
 (8) Legal Proceedings by Di strict Attorney.  In addition to the enforcement provisions of this
chapter, upon request of the Building Official, the District Attorney or County Counsel may institute any
additional proceedings, including, but not limited to, seeking injunctive relief to enforce the provisions of
this chapter.
 (9) Enforcement by Department of Public Safety .  The Director of the Department of Public
Safety, or said Director’s authorized representatives, shall have the power, upon request of the Building
Official, District Attorney or County Counsel, to assist in the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
 (10) Remedies Cumulative.  It is the intent of this chapter that the remedies provided be
cumulative and not mutually exclusive. (Revised by Ordinance No. 7-87, Effective 6.17.87; 1-93, 4.16.93; 4-04, 12.23.04)

ENFORCEMENT
RURAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN

16.263 Failure to Comply.
Failure to comply with any of the requirements of this chapter may be subject to an administrative civil
penalty as provided by LC  5.025.030.  Failure to comply with a condition of an approved Special Use
application or other discretionary permit issued pursuant to the requirements of any of the sections of this
chapter may also be subject to an administrative civil penalty.  Continued failure to comply with this chapter
10 days from the mailing of the notice of the failure to comply by registered or certified mail to the last
known address of the alleged responsible person or after personal service, and continued failure to comply

July 2013 16-5 LC 16.280
after an order has been entered constitutes a separate failure to comply for each day the occurrence
continues.  The Manager of the Lane County Land Management Division, Department of Public Works, or
said Manager’s duly authorized representatives, shall have th e authority to issue a notice of failure to
comply. (Revised by Ordinance No. 7-87, Effective 6.17.87; 1-93, 4.16.93)

TELECOMMUNICATION TOWER STANDARDS
RURAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN

16.264 Telecommunication Tower Standards.
 (1) Purpose.  The provisions of this section are intended to ensure that telecommunication
facilities are located, constructed, maintained and removed in a manner that:
  (a) Recognizes the public need for provision of telecommunication facilities;
  (b) Allows appropriate levels of service to be obtained throughout the County;
  (c) Minimizes the number of transmission towers throughout the County;
  (d) Encourages the collocation of telecommunication facilities; and
  (e) Ensures that all telecommunication facilities, including towers, antennas, and ancillary
facilities are located and designed to minimize the visual impact on the immediate surroundings and
throughout the county.  Nothing in this section shall preclude collocation opportunities nor adversely affect
multiple use towers.  Nothing in this section shall apply to amateur radio antennae, or facilities used
exclusively for the transmission of television and radio signals.
 (2) Definitions.  As used in LC 16.264, the following words and phrases mean:
  Ancillary facilities .  The  buildings, cabinets, vaults, closures and equipment required for
operation of telecommunication facilities including but not limited to repeaters, equipment housing, and
ventilation and other mechanical equipment.
  Antennae.  An electrical conductor or group of electrical conductors that transmit or receive
radio signals, excluding amateur radio antennae.
  Attachment.  An antenna or other piece of related equipment affixed to a transmission tower.
  Changeout.  Reconstruction or replacement of existing c ollocations or transmission towers
with similar equipment, in conformance with LC 16.264(3)(h) below.
  Collocation.  Placement of an antenna or related telecommunication equipment on an existing
structure or building where the antennas and all supports are located on the existing structure or building,
not including eligible facilities requests for a modification of an existing tower or base station that does not
substantially change the physical dimensions of such tower or base station pursuant to Secti on 6409(a) of
the Spectrum Act.
  Provider.  A person in the business of designing and/or using telecommunication facilities
including cellular radiotelephones, personal communications services, enhanced/specialized mobile radios,
and commercial paging services.
  Telecommunication Facility.  A facility designed and/or used for the purpose of transmitting,
receiving, and relaying voice and data signals from antennae, related telecommunication equipment, towers
and ancillary facilities.  For purposes of this section, amateur radio transmission facilities and facilities used
exclusively for the transmission of television and radio signals are not "telecommunication facilities."
  Tract.  A unit of land comprised of adjacent parcels and lots under the same ownership.
  Transmission Tower.  The structure, such as a monopole or lattice framework, designed to
support transmitting and receiving antennae and related telecommunication equipment.  For purposes of
this section, amateur radio transmission facilities and facilities used exclusively for the transmission of
television and radio signals are not "transmission towers."

 (3) Standards applicable to all telecommunication facilities.
  (a) Telecommunication facilities shall be limited to the height necessary to p rovide the
service, not to exceed 200 feet in height from ground level.
  (b) Based on the existing conditions and vegetation at the site, telecommunication facilities
shall be designed and constructed to reduce visibility of the facilities.  Nothing in this subsection preempts
the coloring requirements of the Federal Aviation Administration or the Oregon Department of Aviation.

July 2013 16-6 LC 16.280
   (i) The transmission tower shall be surfaced in a non -reflective material that
minimizes glare and is colored similar to the sky or adjacent background. A light gray shade is appropriate
for blending the tower into the sky background.
   (ii) The antenna, related telecommunication equipment and ancillary facilities shall
be surfaced in non-reflective material to match the transm ission tower.  If not attached to a transmission
tower, they shall be colored similar to the adjacent background.
  (c) Consideration shall be given to other sites and equipment that would have less visual
impact than those proposed. The applicant shall demonstrate that less intrusive sites and equipment are not
available or do not provide the communication coverage necessary to provide the service. Visual impact
can be measured by techniques including, but not limited to, balloon tests and photo simulations.
  (d) No lighting of telecommunication facilities is allowed, except as required by the
Federal Aviation Administration, Oregon Department of Aviation or other federal or state agencies.
Required lighting shall be shielded from the ground to the ext ent it does not violate state or federal
requirements.
  (e) Equipment areas shall be enclosed by a chain link fence or equivalent.
  (f) Warning and safety signs, up to three square feet in area, are allowed. All other signs
are prohibited.
  (g) Maintenance and repair of a lawfully existing telecommunication facility does not
require a land use application approval.
  (h) Changeouts.  The changeout of an existing transmission tower or collocation does not
require a land use application when the following criteria apply:
   (i) The new equipment does not increase the tower height or base diameter.
   (ii) No new lights are proposed unless required by the Oregon Department of
Aviation (ODA) or the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).
   (iii) The new equipment does not increase the number of antennas or external
transmitters.  Existing antennas and external transmitters may remain for a period not to exceed six (6)
months in order to accommodate the transfer of service from the existing antennas or tran smitters to the
replacement antennas or transmitters.
   (iv) The replacement antennas or external transmitters shall not exceed the size (e.g.,
area or length) of existing antennas or transmitters by more than twenty (20) percent.
   (v) The new equipment shall have a similar exterior color as the existing equipment.
  (i) Within a forest zone, the following standards shall apply:
   (i) A fuel break shall extend 50 feet surrounding ancillary facilities containing new
or replacement propane or gas powered generating equipment.  Except for trees, vegetation within the fuel
break shall be maintained at less than 24 inches in height.  Trees shall be spaced with greater than 15 feet
between the crowns and pruned to remove dead and low (less than 8 feet above gr ound) branches.
Nonflammable materials (i.e., gravel) shall be placed within 30 feet surrounding ancillary facilities that
contain propane or gas powered generating equipment.
   (ii) Private roads and driveways that provide access to new or replacement
transmission towers in the forest zones shall comply with the Fire Safety Design Standards of LC
16.211(8)(e)(i) through (vii).
  (j) Notice.  In lieu of the notice area in LC 14.060(4)(a), when the application involves a
leased area notice shall be sent t o landowners and applicable community organizations recognized by the
Lane County Board of Commissioners in LM 3.513, within ½ mile of the leased area.  If the property does
not contain a leased area, notice shall be sent as required by LC 14.060(4)(a), as applicable.
 (4) Standards for a new or replacement transmission tower.
  (a) Review & notice process.  An application for placement of a transmission tower
requires submittal of an application in accordance with Type III procedures of LC Chapter 14, except that
LC 14.060(4)(a) noticing requirements does not apply to applications involving a leased area. .  To be
approved, the application must comply with LC 16.264(3) and 16.264(4).
  (b) Neighborhood meeting.  Prior to submittal of a land use application, the applicant shall
conduct a neighborhood meeting in the general area of the proposed telecommunication tower.

July 2013 16-7 LC 16.280
   (i) The applicant shall, at least fourteen (14) days but not more than thirty (30) days
in advance of the meeting, mail notice of the meeting in conformance with 16.264(3)(j).  In addition, the
notice shall be sent to tenants living within the noticed area.  The notice shall state the date, time, and
location of the meeting and that the topic of the meeting is to discuss the proposed loc ation of a
telecommunication facility on the subject property and to hear from area residents about any concerns they
might have with the proposal. The notice shall state the Lane County map and tax lot numbers for the
subject property and the address for the subject property.
   (ii) The applicant shall, at least ten (10) days in advance of the meeting, publish
notice of the meeting in a newspaper of general circulation serving the area. The published notice shall
contain the information required by LC 16.264(4)(b)(i) for the mailed notice.
   (iii) Nothing in this subsection limits the applicant from providing additional
opportunity for input from area property owners and residents.
  (c) Required submittals.  The application shall contain the following information:
   (i) A site plan, drawn to scale, showing:
    (A) Structures. All existing and proposed structures on the site.  Include any
dwellings or schools within 1200 feet of the tower;
    (B) Access. The access road to the site and the public road serving that access
road.  Submit all necessary easements for access to the site; and
    (C) Taxlots.  Identify the taxlot containing the telecommunication facility and
all taxlots crossed by the access road.
   (ii) A description of the tower design and height.  The description shall include:
    (A) A site-specific study of the tower site identifying the proposed color and
surfacing of the tower and ancillary facilities;
    (B) The engineered design capacity of the tower in terms of the number  and
type of collocations it is designed to accommodate;
    (C) Documentation in the form of lease agreements for a minimum of two
collocations on the proposed telecommunication tower.
   (iii) Certification by an Oregon -registered professional engineer that the
telecommunication facility, as amended by any proposed collocations, complies with the non -ionizing
electromagnetic radiation (NIER) emission standards as set forth by the Federal Communications
Commission (FCC).
   (iv) A signed statement from the property owner indicating awareness of the removal
responsibilities of LC 16.264(4)(f)(iv).  A lease agreement or similar authorization for the proposed use
from the federal government that includes a removal requirement may be substituted for applica tions
involving telecommunication facilities located on federal land.
   (v) Signature(s) of the property owner(s) on the application form or a written
statement from the property owner(s) granting authorization to proceed with the land use application.  A
lease agreement or similar authorization for the proposed use from the federal government may be
substituted for applications involving telecommunication facilities located on federal land.
   (vi) A map of all transmission towers and properties that have obtained approval for
a transmission tower, within ten (10) miles of the proposed facility.
   (vii) Certification by an Oregon -registered professional engineer that the design of
the tower will support at least three users (the primary user and two collocation sites).
   (viii) Evidence of the notification and the neighborhood meeting.
   (ix) A performance bond payable to Lane County and acceptable to the Director to
cover the cost of removal of the telecommunication tower, ancillary facilities, and restoration of the site.
   (x) Other information requested in the application form provided by the Director,
such as but not limited to, peer review by an independent engineering firm of the proposed
telecommunications facility system design.
  (d) Performance standards.  The transmission tower shall comply with the following:

July 2013 16-8 LC 16.280
   (i) The tower shall be necessary to provide service to the intended area.  The
applicant shall provide evidence the existing and approved telecommunication facilities within ten mil es
would not provide an adequate level of service, based on the following:
    (A) Lack of useable and compatible collocation space;
    (B) Inability to meet service coverage area and capacity needs; or
    (C) Technical reasons such as channel proximity and inter-modulation.
   (ii) The transmission tower shall be designed to accommodate at least three users
(the primary user and two collocation sites).
   (iii) The cumulative radio frequency emissions from all  the collocations on a single
structure shall not exceed the maximum exposure limits of the FCC.
   (iv) When access is provided by a private road, all necessary access easements and
roadways shall be maintained.
   (v) Prior to land use approval of a building permit for a telecommunication tower,
the applicant shall:
    (A) Provide documentation showing the FAA, the ODA, and any other
applicable state agency, have approved the tower, or that the tower does not require approval by these
agencies;
    (B) When the tower is within 14,000 feet of an airport, provide the FAA
registration number for the transmission tower, or documentation showing the tower does not require
registration.
  (e) Setbacks and separation requirements.
   (i) Setbacks.  The tower shall comply with the setback of the base zone.
   (ii) Separation.  The tower shall be 1200 feet from any dwelling or school, except:
    (A) An encroachment into the separation distance is allowed if the
homeowner(s) who is being encroached upon submits written approval of the encroachment.
    (B) This separation shall not apply to any dwellings or schools located on the
parcel containing the proposed tower.
  (f) Expiration and Renewal of the Special Use Permit.
   (i) If a telecommunications tower is not placed into service within 2 years of
issuance of a building permit, the special use permit shall expire.
   (ii) In lieu of LC 14.090(6), all conditions of approval must be completed by
December 31st of the year following the date of final special us e permit approval.  No time extensions are
allowed.  The special use permit shall be renewed every two (2) years thereafter.
   (iii) To renew the special use permit, an application shall be submitted in accordance
with LC Chapter 14.  To be approved, the application shall contain documentation showing:
    (A) The telecommunications facility has complied with non -ionizing
electromagnetic radiation (NIER) emission standards as set forth by the Federal Communications
Commission (FCC); and
    (B) The tower continues to meet any applicable conditions of approval by
Lane County, including provision of an adequate current performance bond for removal of the facility and
restoration of the site.
   (iv) If a transmission tower authorized under this section is n ot used as a
telecommunication facility for a period of one (1) year, the special use permit shall expire and the tower
shall be removed.
 (5) Collocation.  A new or replacement collocation shall comply with the following:
  (a) Review process.  Collocat ion requires submittal of a land use application pursuant to
Type II procedures of LC Chapter 14.  Director approval is required pursuant to Type II procedures of LC
Chapter 4, excluding the notice area at LC 14.060(4)(a) for applications involving a lease d area.  To be
approved, the application must comply with LC 16.264(3) and 16.264(5).
  (b) Required submittals.  An application for a collocation shall include the following
information:
   (i) A site plan, drawn to scale, showing:

July 2013 16-9 LC 16.280
     (A) Structures. All existing and proposed structures on the site.  Include any
dwellings or schools within 1200 feet of the tower;
     (B) Access. The access road to the site and the public road serving that access
road.  Submit all necessary easements for access to the site; and
     (C) Taxlots.  Identify the taxlot containing the telecommunication facility and
all taxlots crossed by the access road.
   (ii) A description of the tower design and height.  The description shall include:
    (A) A site-specific study of the tower site identifying the proposed color and
surfacing of the tower, collocation, and ancillary facilities;
     (B) The engineered design capacity of the tower in terms of the number and
type of collocations it is designed to accommodate.
   (iii) If the collocation is within 14,000 feet of an airport, provide the FAA registration
number for the tower structure, or documentation showing that the tower does not require registration.
   (iv) Documentation demonstrating that the Oregon Department of Avia tion has
reviewed the proposal.  When the proposed collocation does not increase the height of the tower, documents
from the ODA approving the tower may be substituted.
   (v) A signed statement from the property owner indicating awareness of the removal
responsibilities of LC 16.264(5)(c)(ii).  A lease agreement or similar authorization for the proposed use
from the federal government that includes a removal requirement may be substituted for applications
involving telecommunication facilities located on federal land.
   (vi) Signature(s) of the property owner(s) on the application form or a written
statement from the property owner(s) granting authorization to proceed with the land use application.  A
lease agreement or similar authorization for the propos ed use from the Federal government may be
substituted for applications involving telecommunication facilities located on federal land.
   (vii) Certification by an Oregon -registered professional engineer that the
telecommunication facility, as amended by t he proposed collocation, complies with the non-ionizing
electromagnetic radiation (NIER) emission standards as set forth by the Federal Communications
Commission (FCC).
   (viii) Certification by an Oregon -registered professional engineer that the
telecommunication facility will support the proposed collocated equipment.
   (ix) Documentation showing that the applicant has an FCC license for the geographic
region and for the service proposed by the collocation.
   (x) A performance bond payable to Lane County and acceptable to the Director to
cover the cost of removal of the collocation, ancillary facilities, and restoration of the site to the way it
appeared before collocation approval.
   (xi) Other information requested in the application form provided by the Director,
such as but not limited to, peer review by an independent engineering firm of the proposed
telecommunications facility system design.
  (c) Performance standards.  Collocations shall comply with the following:
   (i) All collocations on the structure shall comply with the non-ionizing
electromagnetic radiation (NIER) emission standards as set forth by the Federal Communications
Commission (FCC).
   (ii) Any collocation and ancillary facilities authorized under this subsection shall be
removed after one year of non-use and the approval shall expire.
   (iii) The provider shall maintain an FCC license for the geographic region and for
the service provided by the collocation.
 (6) Spectrum Act Eligible Facilities Requests.
  (a) Review Process. An eligible facilities request for a modification of an existing tower
or base station that does not substantially change the physical dimensions of such tower or base station will
be processed as a Type I determination pursuant to LC Chapter 14 and LC 14.050(2)(c).

July 2013 16-10 LC 16.280
  (b) Definitions. Terms in this subsection are defined as provided by 47 C.F.R. 1.40001(b).
In the case of conflict between the definitions provided in subsection (2) above and the definitions of 47
C.F.R. 1.40001(b), the definitions of 47 C.F.R 1.40001(b) prevail.
  (c) Standards. Type I eligible facilities requests are those that do not constitute a
substantial change in the physical dimensions of an existing tower or base station, where substantial change
is defined as any of the following:
   (i) For towers other than towers in the public rights -of-way, it increases the height
of the tower by more than 10% or by the height of one additional antenna array with separation from the
nearest existing antenna not to exceed twenty feet, whichever is greater; for other eligible support structures,
it increases the height of the structure by more than 10% or more than ten feet, whichever is greater;
    (A) Changes in height should be measured from the original support structure
in cases where deployments are or will be separated horizontally, such as on buildings’ rooftops; in other
circumstances, changes in height should be measured from the dimensions of the tower or base station,
inclusive of originally approved appurtenances and any modificat ions that were approved prior to the
passage of the Spectrum Act.
  (ii) For towers other than towers in the public rights -of-way, it involves adding an
appurtenance to the body of the tower that would protrude from the edge of the tower more than twenty
feet, or more than the width of the tower structure at the level of the appurtenance, whichever is greater; for
other eligible support structures, it involves adding an appurtenance to the body of the structure that would
protrude from the edge of the structure by more than six feet;
  (iii) For any eligible support structure, it involves installation of more than the standard
number of new equipment cabinets for the technology involved, but not to exceed four cabinets; or, for
towers in the public rights-of-way and base stations, it involves installation of any new equipment cabinets
on the ground if there are no pre -existing ground cabinets associated with the structure, or else involves
installation of ground cabinets that are more than 10% larger  in height or overall volume than any other
ground cabinets associated with the structure;
  (iv) It entails any excavation or deployment outside the current site;
  (v) It would defeat the concealment elements of the eligible support structure; or
  (vi) It does not comply with conditions associated with the siting approval of the
construction or modification of the eligible support structure or base station equipment, provided however
that this limitation does not apply to any modification that is non -compliant only in a manner that would
not exceed the thresholds identified in (6)(c)(i) through (iv).
 (d) If the facilities request for modification of an existing tower or base station will substantially
change the physical dimensions of such tower or base station, the application will be subject to subsection
(5) of this section, a Type II procedure.
 (Revised by Ordinance 4-02, Effective 4.10.02; 17-04, 3.18.05; 6-10, 9.17.10; 20-05, 6.16.20; 20-06, 6.16.20)

TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES AND USES RURAL
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN

16.265 Transportation Facilities and Uses.
 (1) Purpose. The purpose of this section is to define roadway and other transportation activities,
uses, and projects that may be allowed in any land use zone governed by LC Chapter 16, subject to
applicable standards and requirements.   It clarifies the status of these activities and the processes necessary
to implement the Lane County Transportation System Plan (TSP), a Special Purpose Plan of the Rural
Comprehensive Plan.
 (2) Definitions. The definitions in LC 15.010 shall apply to transportation facilities and uses
specified in LC 16.265(3) below.
 (3) Transportation Facilities and Uses.  The following transportation facilities and uses may be
permitted outright or as special uses only as specified in the applicable land use zone, subject to LC
16.265(4) and other applicable requirements of Lane Code:
  (a)  Climbing and passing lanes;

July 2013 16-11 LC 16.280
  (b)  Reconstruction or modification as defined in LC 15.010, and modernization as defined
in LC 15.010 of public roads and highways, including:
   (i) acquisition of right-of-way, including the removal or displacement of buildings
but not including the creation of new parcels.
   (ii) channelization as defined in LC 15.010.
   (iii) the placement of utility facilities overhead and in the subsurface of public roads
and highways along public right of way.
   (iv) the addition of travel lanes.
   (v) continuous median turn lanes.
  (c)  Temporary public road and highway detours that will be abandoned and restored to the
condition or use in effect prior to construction of the detour at such time as no longer needed.
  (d)  Improvement of public roads and related facilities such as maintenance yards, weigh
stations and rest areas, to suppor t the operation and maintenance of public roads and highways, including
the acquisition of right-of-way but not resulting in the creation of new lots or parcels;
  (e) Operations, maintenance, and repair as defined in LC 15.010 of existing transportation
facilities, services, and improvements, including road, bicycle, pedestrian, port, airport and rail facilities,
and major regional pipelines and terminals.
  (f) Preservation as defined in LC 15.010, and rehabilitation activities and projects as
defined in LC 15.010 for existing transportation facilities, services, and improvements, including road,
bicycle, pedestrian, port, airport and rail facilities, and major regional pipelines and terminals.
  (g) Dedication and acquisition of right-of -way, authorizatio n of construction and the
construction of facilities and improvements, where the improvements are otherwise allowable and
consistent with clear and objective dimensional standards.
  (h) Changes in the frequency of transit, rail and airport services.
  (i) Park and ride lots.
  (j) Realignment as defined in LC 15.010 not otherwise allowed in this section.
  (k) Replacement of an intersection with an interchange.
  (l) New Roads as defined in LC 15.010 that are County Roads functionally classified as
Local Roads or Collectors, or are Public Roads or Local Access Roads as defined in LC 15.010(35) in an
exception area, or in other areas where the function of the road is to reduce local access to or local traffic
on a state highway.  These roads shall be limited to two travel lanes.  Private access and intersections shall
be limited to rural needs or to provide adequate emergency access.
  (m) Transportation facilities, services and improvements other than those listed in LC
16.265(3) that serve local travel need s. The travel capacity and level of service of facilities and
improvements serving local travel needs shall be limited to that necessary to support rural land uses
identified in the Rural Comprehensive Plan or to provide adequate emergency access.
  (n) Bikeways, footpaths and recreation trails not otherwise allowed as a modification or
part of an existing road.
  (o) Railroad mainlines and branch lines.
  (p) Pipelines.
  (q) Navigation channels.
  (r) Expansion or alterations of public use airports that do not permit service to a larger
class of airplanes, as defined by the Federal Aviation Administration.
 (4) Modernization projects, and other road improvement projects listed above in LC 16.265(3)
that involve the addition of travel lanes, or the displace ment or relocation of buildings, shall be subject to
the following:
  (a)  State projects shall be subject to the public involvement policies and actions in the
adopted Oregon Transportation Plan, and shall be part  of the State Transportation Improvement Program
(STIP) adopted by the Oregon Transportation Commission; and
  (b) County projects shall be listed in the adopted Capital Improvement Program and
approved and processed as to project design pursuant to the citizen involvement requirements in LM 15.580.
(Revised by Ordinance 10-04, Effective 6.4.04)

July 2013 16-12 LC 16.280

This space intentionally left blank.

July 2013 16-13 LC 16.280
GOSHEN INDUSTRIAL ZONES (GI, LI)
RURAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN (RCP)

LC 16.280 Goshen Industrial Zones (GI, LI)

Sections:

(1) Purpose
(2) Definitions
(3) Land Use Categories
(4) Industrial Use Categories
(5) Applicability
(6) Site Design Review
(7) Special Use Permit
(8) Permitted Land Uses
(9) Development Standards
(10) Access and Circulation
(11) Landscaping, Fences, Walls and Screening
(12) Parking and Loading
(13) Noise Standards
(14) Outdoor Lighting Standards
(15) Signs
(16) Utility Facilities

(1) Purpose.  The purpose of the Goshen Industrial zones are to promote economic growth and
development that takes advantage of the significant comparative advantages of Goshen including
presence of rail and highway access, whil e being in close proximate to the Eugene/Springfield
metro area.  The zones will accommodate industrial uses focusing on manufacturing and
production, industrial service, and accessory or supportive uses to serve the needs of these primary
uses.  The zones are intended to buffer incompatible industrial developments from other zones,
while providing a quality environment for businesses and employees.  This Section (16.280)  of
Lane Code guides the orderly development of Goshen urban industrial uses and is intended to:

(a) Provide for efficient use of land and public services.
(b) Promote the area’s transportation and other infrastructure, and logistical advantages.
(c) Encourage economic development, expansion, and creation of jobs in the area.
(d) Increase compatibility between uses and nearby commercial and residential or resource
zones.
(e) Provide appropriate design standards to accommodate a range of industrial users.
(f) Utilize industrial zoned lands for increased levels of development resulting in living wage
jobs.
(g) Protect and diversify the economy of the county.
(h) Conserve the limited supply of prime industrial lands to provide sufficient space for
existing industrial enterprises and future industrial growth.

Two different zones are intended to provide land that is appropriate for the following uses based
on size, location, and other characteristics.

General Industrial (GI):  The purpose of this zone is to provide opportunities for industrial uses
that create jobs that pay no less than  150% of the median wage, which are essential to the
development of a balanced economic base in an industrial environment with a minimum conflict
between industrial uses and non -industrial uses.  Additionally, it is the primary purpose of the GI

July 2013 16-14 LC 16.280
zone to focus on rail dependent uses that create a significant number of jobs.  The GI zone is
intended to encourage Manufacturing and Production uses which are by their nature expected to
create a significant number of jobs.

Light Industrial (LI):  The purpose of this zone is to provide opportunities for light industrial uses
on existing smaller properties.

These zones are identified on the County’s official zoning map.  The zones serve distinctly different
uses as described.

(2) Definitions

(a) Industrial Use – means employment activities, including, but not limited to the use of land
primarily for the manufacture,  assembly, fabrication, processing, storage, logistics,
warehousing, importation, distribution and transshipment and research and development,
that generate income from the production, processing, handling or distribution of goods
and services, including g oods and services in the traded sector as defined by ORS
285A.010.

(b) Commercial Use – means the use of land involving buying or selling of goods or services
as the primary activity.

(c) Corporate Office/Headquarters – means a building or portion of a building in which
people are employed in the management or direction of a business consisting of one or
more companies, or divisions or groups of companies.  This use must be directly associated
with and subordinate to a permitted use or use allowed with a Special Use Permit on the
same site.

(d) Non-native, invasive plants – means plants listed under current Oregon State University
Extension Service Bulletin as non-native invasive plants in Oregon.

(e) Rail dependent.  A use, facility or activity that demonstrates a benefit from access to rail
or can utilize or integrate access to the rail into their business operations.

(f) Rail related.  Uses or facilities that are not directly dependent upon access to rail, but that
provide goods or services that are directly associated with rail-dependent land or use, and
that, demonstrate that if not located near rail related uses would result in a loss of quality
or increase in cost of the goods or services offered.

(3) Land Use Categories

For the purpose of this Chapter uses and activities are classified into use categories on the basis of
common functional, product, or physical characteristics, as described below.

(a) Categorization.  Uses are assigned to the category whose description most closely
describes the nature of the primary use.  The characteristics subsection of each use category
describes the characteristics of each use category.  Developments may have more than one
primary use.  Developments may also have one or more accessory uses.

(b) Interpretation.  When a use’s category is not clearly identifiable, the Director, through an
administrative action, determines the applicable use category.  The following is considered

July 2013 16-15 LC 16.280
to determine what use category the use is in, and whether the activities constitute primary
uses or accessory uses:

(i) The description of the activity(ies) in relationship to the characteristics of each
use category;
(ii) The relative amount of site or floor space and equipment devoted to the activity;
(iii) Relative amounts of sales from each activity;
(iv) The customer type for each activity;
(v) The relative number of employees in each activity;
(vi) Hours of operation;
(vii) Building and site arrangement;
(viii) Vehicles used with the activity;
(ix) The relative number of vehicle trips generated by the activity;
(x) Signs;
(xi) How the use advertises itself; and
(xii) Whether the activity would function independently of the other activities on the
site.

(c) Developments with multiple primary uses.  When all of the primary uses of a
development fall within one use category, then the development is assigned to that use
category.  For example, a development that contains a Research and Development facility
and a manufacturing and production facility, the uses would be classified in the Industrial
category because all the primary uses are in that category.  When the primary uses of a
development fall within different use categories, each primary use is classified in the
applicable category and is subject to the regulations for that category.

(4) Industrial Use Categories

(a) Industrial Service

(i) “Industrial Service” refers to the repair or servicing of industrial, business or
consumer machinery, equipment, products or by-products.  Firms that service
consumer goods do so by mainly providing centralized services for separate retail
outlets.  Contractors and building maintenance services and similar uses perform
services off-site.  Few customers, especially the general public, come to the site.

(ii) Accessory uses may include but are not limited to offices, parking, storage, rail
spur or lead lines, and docks.

(iii) Examples include welding shops; machine shops; tool repair; electric motor repair;
repair of scientific or professional inst ruments; storage, salvage or wrecking of
heavy machinery, metal, and building materials; towing and vehicle storage; auto
and truck salvage and wrecking; heavy truck servicing and repair; tire re-treading
or recapping; truck stops; building, heating, plumbing or electrical contractors;
printing, publishing and lithography; exterminators; recycling operations;
janitorial and building maintenance services; fuel oil distributors; solid fuel yards;
research and development laboratories; technology development a nd support
centers; industrial laundry, dry -cleaning, and carpet cleaning plants; and
photofinishing laboratories.

(iv) Exceptions

July 2013 16-16 LC 16.280
(aa) Contractors and others who perform Industrial Service s off -site are
included in the office category, if equipment and materials are not stored
at the site, and fabrication or similar work is not carried on at the site.

(bb) Hotels, restaurants, and other services that are part of a truck stop are
considered accessory to the truck stop.

(b) Manufacturing and Production

(i) “Manufacturing and Production” refers to the manufacturing, processing,
fabrication, packaging, or assembly of goods.  Natural, human-made, raw,
secondary, or partially completed materials may be used.  Products may be
finished or semi-finished and are generally made for the wholesale market, for
transfer to other plants, or to order for firms or consumers.  Goods are generally
not displayed or sold on site, but if so, they are a subordinate part of sales.
Relatively few customers come to the manufacturing site.

(ii) Accessory uses may include but are not limited to offices, cafeterias, parking,
employee recreational facilities, warehouses, storage yards, rail spur or lead lines,
docks, repair facilities, or truck fleets.  Living quarters for one caretaker per site
is allowed.  Other living quarters are subject to the regulations for Residential
Uses.

(iii) Examples include processing of food and related products; catering
establishments; breweries, distilleries, and wineries; weaving or production of
textiles or apparel; lumber mills, pulp and paper mills, and other wood products
manufacturing; woodworking, including cabinet makers; production of chemical,
rubber, leather, clay, bone, plastic, stone, or glass materials or products; movie
production facilities; concrete batching and asphalt mixing; production or
fabrication of metals or metal products including enameling and galvanizing;
manufacture or assembly of machinery, equipment, instruments, computer and
electronic devices; biotechnology; production of artwork and toys; sign making;
production of prefabricated structures, including manufactured homes; the
production of energy; and paper products processing.

(iv) Exceptions

(aa) Manufacturing of goods to be sold primarily on-site and to the general
public is classified as Retail Sales and Service.

(bb) Manufacture and production of goods from composting organic material
is classified as Waste-Related uses.

(c) Warehouse, Freight Movement, and Distribution

(i) “Warehouse, Freight Movement, and Distribution” refers to the storage, or
movement of goods by a company for themselves or other firms.  Goods are
generally delivered to other firms or the final consumer, except for some will-call
pickups.  There is little on-site sales activity with the customer present.

(ii) Accessory uses may include but are not limited to offices, truck fleet parking and
maintenance areas, rail spur or lead lines, docks, and repackaging of goods.

July 2013 16-17 LC 16.280

(iii) Examples include separate warehouses used by retail stores such as furniture and
appliance stores; household moving and general freight storage; cold storage
plants, including frozen food lockers; major wholesale distribution centers; truck/
freight terminals; bus barns; parcel services; major post offices; grain terminals;
and the stockpiling of sand, gravel, or other aggregate materials.

(iv) Exceptions

(aa) Uses that involve the transfer or storage of solid or liquid wastes are
classified as Waste-Related uses.

(bb) Mini-warehouses are classified as Self-Service Storage uses.

(d) Waste-Related

(i) “Waste-Related” refers to uses that receive solid or liquid wastes from others for
disposal on the site or for transfer to another location, uses that collect sanitary
wastes, or uses that manufacture or produce goods or energy from the biological
decomposition of organic material.  Waste-Related uses also include uses that
receive hazardous wastes from others and are subject to the regulations of OAR
340-100-110, Hazardous Waste Management.

(ii) Accessory uses may include but are not limited to recycling of materials, offices,
and repackaging and transshipment of by-products.

(iii) Examples include sanitary landfills, limited use landfills, waste composting,
energy recovery plants, sewer treatment plants, portable sanitary collection
equipment storage and pumping, and hazardous-waste-collection sites.
(iv) Exceptions

(aa) Disposal of clean fill, as defined in OAR 340-093-0030, is considered a
fill, not a Waste-Related use.

(bb) Sewer pipes that serve a development are considered a basic utility.

(cc) Recycling operations are not considered a Waste related use.  They are
classified as an Industrial Service use.

(e) Wholesale Sales

(i) “Wholesale Sales” refers to the sale, lease, or rent of products primarily intended
for industrial, institutional, or commercial businesses.  The uses emphasize on-
site sales or order taking and often include display areas.  Businesses may or may
not be open to the general public, but sales to the general public are limited as a
result of the way in which the firm operates.  Products may be picked up on site
or delivered to the customer.

(ii) Accessory uses may include but are not limited to offices, product repair,
warehouses, parking, minor fabrication services, and repackaging of goods.

July 2013 16-18 LC 16.280
(iii) Examples include sale or rental of machinery, equipment, heavy trucks, building
materials, special trade tools, welding supplies, machine parts, electrical supplies,
janitorial supplies, restaurant equipment, and store fixtures; mail order houses;
and wholesalers of food, clothing, auto parts, building hardware, and office
supplies.

(iv) Exceptions

(aa) Firms that engage primarily in sales to the general public are classified as
Retail Sales and Service.

(bb) Firms that engage in sales on a membership basis are classified as Retail
Sales and Service.

(cc) Firms that are primarily storing goods with little on -site business activity
are classified as Warehouse, Freight Movement, and Distribution.

(5) Applicability

The provisions of this subsection of Lane Code Chapter 16, the Goshen Industrial zones , apply to
all development on property zoned General  Industrial ( GI) and Light Industrial ( LI) within the
unincorporated community of Goshen.  The loc ation of the GI and LI zones are identified on the
Lane County official zoning map.

Where a provision or condition imposed by a provision of this section conflicts or overlaps with
another provision or condition imposed by a provision of this section or other section of Chapter
16 of Lane Code, the provision or condition imposed by a provision that is more restrictive governs.

(6) Site Design Review

(a) Purpose.  The purpose of this subsection, Site Design Review, is to:

(i) Provide rules, regulations and standards for efficient and effective administration
of land use review in the Goshen Industrial Zones;

(ii) Promote the public health, safety and general welfare;

(iii) Provide compatibility through provisions for adequate light and air, prevent
overcrowding of land, and provide for adequate transportation, water supply,
sewage, fire protection, pollution control, surface water management, and
protection against natural hazards;

(iv) Encourage the conservation of energy resources; and

(v) Encourage efficient use of land resources, full utilization of services, mixed uses,
and transportation options.

(b) Applicability.  Site Design Review is required for all new developments and
modifications of existing developments in the Goshen Industrial zones, subject to this
section of Lane Code Chapter 16, in accordance with subsection (5), Applicability, of this
section.  Regular maintenance, repair and replacement of materials (e.g., roof, siding,

July 2013 16-19 LC 16.280
awnings, etc.), parking resurfacing and similar maintenance and repair are exempt from
Site Design Review.

(c) Application Review.  Site Design Review will be processed pursuant to Type II
procedures of LC Chapter 14, and subject to the application requirements and approval
criteria contained in subsections 6(e) and 6(f), below.

Site Design Review ensures compliance with the basic land use and development
standards of the land use zone, such as setbacks, lot coverage, building height, property
size, orientation, architectural standards and other provisions of Lane Code as applicable.

(d) Permit Approval and Modifications.  Applicant must not commence or authorize
development until the applicant has received all of the appropriate land use and
development approvals (i.e., site design review approval, and any other required land use
decisions) and building permits.  Applicant must not commence or authorize construction
of public improvements until the County has approved all required public improvement
plans (e.g., utilities, streets, public land dedication, etc.).  The County may require the
applicant to enter into a development agreement (e.g., for phased developments and
developments with required off-site public improvements), and may require bonding or
other assurances for improvements.

Modification of application for a Site D esign Review or Special Use Permit application
means the applicant's submittal of new information after an application has been deemed
complete and prior to the close of the record on a pending application that would modify a
development proposal by changi ng one or more of the following components: proposed
uses, operating characteristics, intensity, scale, site lay out (including but not limited to
changes in setbacks, access points, building design, size or orientation, parking, traffic or
pedestrian circulation plans), or landscaping in a manner that requires the application of
new criteria to the proposal or that would require the findings of fact to be changed. It does
not mean an applicant's submission of new evidence that merely clarifies or supports the
pending application.

(i) An applicant may modify an application at any time during the approval process
up until the issuance of an administrative decision, or the close of the record for
an application reviewed under a hearings process.

(ii) The Approval Authority may not consider any evidence submitted by or on
behalf of an applicant that would constitute modification of an application unless
the applicant submits an application for a modification, pays all required
modification fees and agrees in writing to restart the 150-day review period as of
the date the modification is submitted.  The 150-day review period for an
application, as modified, may be restarted as many times as there are
modifications up to a total of 365 days from the day the application was accepted
as complete.

(iii) The Approval Authority may require that the application be re-noticed and
additional hearings be held.

(iv) Up until the day a hearing is opened for receipt of oral testimony, the Director
has sole authority to determine whether an applicant's submittal constitutes a
modification.  After such time, the Approval Authority makes such
determinations.  The Approval Authority's determination on whether a submittal

July 2013 16-20 LC 16.280
constitutes a modification is appealable to LUBA after a final decision is entered
by the County on an application.

(e) Site Design Review - Application Submittal Requirements.  All of the following
information is required for Site Design Review application submittal:

(i) Site Design Review Submission Requirements.  An application for Site Design
Review must contain all of the information required under LC 14.040(1).  In
addition an applicant for Site Design Review must provide the following
additional information, as deemed applicable by the Director.  The Director may
deem applicable any information that he or she needs to review the request and
prepare a complete staff report and recommendation to the Approval Authority:

(aa) Site analysis map. (existing conditions) At a minimum the site analysis
map must contain the following:

(A) The applicant’s entire property and the surrounding property to a
distance sufficient to determine the location of the development
in the County (minimum of 250 feet), and the relationship
between the proposed development site and abutting property
and development.  The property boundaries, dimensions and
gross area must be identified;

(B) Topographic contour lines at 2-foot intervals for slopes of less
than 10 percent, and 5-foot intervals for steeper slopes;

(C) Identification of slopes greater than 25 percent;

(D) The location and width of all existing: utilities, public and
private streets, drives, sidewalks, pathways, rights-of-way, and
easements on the site and adjoining the site;

(E) Potential natural hazard areas, including any areas identified as
subject to a 100-year flood, areas subject to high water table, and
areas mapped by the County or State as having a potential for
geologic hazards;

(F) Resource areas, including marsh and wetland areas, streams, and
wildlife habitat identified by the County or any natural resource
regulatory agencies as requiring protection;

(G) Site features, including existing structures, pavement, large rock
outcroppings, drainage ways, canals and ditches;

(H) Locally or federally designated historic and cultural resources on
the site and abutting parcels or lots;

(I) The location, size and species of trees and other vegetation
having a caliper (diameter) of six (6) inches or greater at four
feet above grade;

July 2013 16-21 LC 16.280
(J) North arrow, scale, names and addresses of all persons listed as
owners of the subject property on the most recently recorded
deed;

(K) Name and address of project designer, engineer, surveyor, and/or
planner, if applicable.

(bb) Proposed site plan.  The site plan must contain the following
information:

(A) The proposed development site, including boundaries,
dimensions, and gross area;

(B) Features identified on the existing site analysis maps that are
proposed to remain on the site;

(C) Features identified on the site analysis map, if any, which are
proposed to be removed or modified by the development;

(D) The location and dimensions of all proposed public and private
streets, drives, rights-of-way, and easements;

(E) The location and dimensions of all existing and proposed
structures, utilities, pavement and other improvements on the site
including outdoor storage areas, fencing, etc.  All impervious
and pervious areas must be delineated.  Setback dimensions for
all existing and proposed buildings must be provided on the site
plan;

(F) The location and dimensions of entrances and exits to the site for
vehicular, pedestrian, and bicycle access;

(G) The location and dimensions of all parking and vehicle
circulation areas (show striping for parking stalls and wheel
stops);

(H) Pedestrian and bicycle circulation areas, including sidewalks,
internal pathways, pathway connections to abutting properties,
and any bicycle lanes or trails;

(I) Loading and service areas for waste disposal, loading and
delivery;

(J) Outdoor recreation spaces, common areas, plazas, outdoor
seating, street furniture, and similar improvements;

(K) Location, type, and height of outdoor lighting;

(L) Location of mail boxes, if known;

(M) Name and address of project designer, if applicable;

July 2013 16-22 LC 16.280
(N) Locations of bus stops and other public or private transportation
facilities;

(O) Locations, sizes, and types of signs;

(cc) Architectural drawings.  Architectural drawings demonstrating
compliance with subsection (9)(e), Design Standards, below, and
showing one or all of the following are required for new buildings and
major remodels:

(A) Building elevations (as determined by the County Director) with
building height and width dimensions;

(B) Building materials, colors and type;

(C) The name of the architect or designer.

(dd) Preliminary grading plan.  A preliminary grading plan prepared by a
registered engineer is required for development sites ½ acre or larger.
The preliminary grading plan must show the location and extent to which
grading will take place, indicating general changes to contour lines, slope
ratios, slope stabilization proposals, and location and height of retaining
walls, if proposed.  Surface water detention and treatment plans may also
be required, in accordance with subsection (16)(d), Stormwater
Management Requirements.

(ee) Landscape plan.  A landscape plan is required demonstrating
compliance with the provisions of subsection (11), Landscaping, Fences,
Walls and Screening, below, and must show the following:

(A) The location and height of existing and proposed fences,
buffering or screening materials;

(B) The location of existing and proposed terraces, retaining walls,
decks, patios, shelters, and play areas;

(C) The location, size, and species of the existing and proposed plant
materials (at time of planting);

(D) Existing and proposed building and pavement outlines;

(E) Specifications for soil at time of planting, irrigation if plantings
are not drought-tolerant (may be automatic or other approved
method of irrigation) and anticipated planting schedule;

(F) Other information as deemed appropriate by the County
Director.

(ff) Sign drawings must detail the location, size, and colors of any proposed
signs.

July 2013 16-23 LC 16.280
(gg) Deed restrictions.  Copies of all existing and proposed restrictions or
covenants, including those for access control.

(hh) Narrative.  Letter or narrative report documenting compliance with the
applicable approval criteria contained in subsection (6)(f), Site Design
Review Approval Criteria.

(ii) Traffic Impact Study, when required in accordance with subsection
(16)(b), Roads, below, a traffic study must be prepared in accordance
with the road authority’s requirements.  See Lane Code 15.696-15.697
for relevant standards.

(jj) Other information.  When determined by the Director, the County may
require studies or exhibits prepared by qualified professionals to address
specific site features or project impacts (e.g., traffic, noise,
environmental features, natural hazards, etc.), in conformance with this
Code including but not limited to:

(A) Public Facilities and Services Impact Study.  An impact study
when required must quantify and assess the effect of the
development on public facilities and services.  The scope of the
study will be determined by the County during the pre-
application conference.  For each public facility system and type
of impact, the study must propose improvements necessary to
meet County standards;

(B) In situations where this Code authorizes the dedication of real
property to the County, in order for the County to include the
dedication as a condition of approval the County must include in
the written decision evidence that shows that the required
property dedication is directly related to and roughly
proportional to the projected impacts of the development on
public facilities and services.

(f) Site Design Review Approval Criteria.  The Approval Authority must make written
findings with respect to all of the following criteria when approving, approving with
conditions, or denying an application:

(i) The application is complete, as determined in accordance with LC 14.050 and
subsection (6)(e), Site Design Review – Application Submittal Requirements,
above.

(ii) The application complies with all of the applicable provisions of the underlying
Land Use Zone, including: setbacks, lot coverage, building height, property size,
orientation, architectural standards and other provisions of subsections (8),
Permitted Land Uses, and (9), Development Standards including special
standards as may be required for certain land uses.

(iii) The applicant is required to upgrade any existing development that does not
comply with the applicable land use zone standards, in conformance with section
(5) and Lane Code Chapter 16.251, Non-Conforming Uses.

July 2013 16-24 LC 16.280
(iv) The application complies with all of the following Standards as applicable:

(aa) subsection (10) - Access and Circulation;

(bb) subsection (11) - Landscaping, Fences, Walls and Screening;

(cc) subsection (12) - Parking and Loading;

(dd) subsection (13) – Noise Standards;

(ee) subsection (14) – Outdoor Lighting Standards;

(ff) subsection (15) – Signs;

(gg) subsection (16) – Utility Facilities.

(g) Existing conditions of approval required as part of a prior Land Division, Special Use
Permit, Site Plan/Design approval or other approval must be met when the development
under the previous approval is proposed to continue to exist.

(7) Special Use Permit

The County must approve, approve with conditions, or deny an application for a Special Use Permit
or to enlarge or alter a Special Use based on findings with respect to each of the following standards
and criteria:

(a) Use Criteria

(i) The site size, dimensions, location, topography and access are adequate for the
needs of the proposed use, considering the building mass, parking, traffic, noise,
vibration, exhaust/emissions, light, glare, erosion, odor, dust, visibility, safety,
and aesthetic considerations.

(ii) Any negative impacts of the proposed use on adjacent properties and on the
public can be mitigated through application of other Code standards, or other
reasonable conditions of approval that include but are not limited to those listed
in below.

(b) Site Design Standards.  Where appropriate, the procedures, submittal requirements, and
approval criteria for Site Design Review approval listed in subsection (6); Site Design
Review must be met.

(c) Conditions of Approval.  The County may impose conditions that are found necessary
to ensure that the use is compatible with other uses in the vicinity, and that any negative
impact of the proposed use on the surrounding uses and public facilities is minimized.
The County may impose as many of these and other applicable conditions on one
conditional use application as it finds necessary.  These conditions include, but are not
limited to, the following:

(i) Limiting the hours, days, place and/or manner of operation;

July 2013 16-25 LC 16.280
(ii) Requiring site or architectural design features that minimize environmental
impacts such as noise, vibration, exhaust/emissions, light, glare, erosion, odor
and/or dust;

(iii) Requiring larger setback areas, lot area, and/or lot depth or width than those
required;

(iv) Limiting the building height, size or lot coverage, and/or location on the site;

(v) Designating the size, number, location and/or design of vehicle access points or
parking areas;

(vi) Requiring street right-of-way to be dedicated and street(s), sidewalks, curbs,
planting strips, pathways, or trails to be improved, so long as findings in the
development approval indicate how the dedication and/or improvements, if not
voluntarily accepted by the applicant, is roughly proportional and has a nexus to
the impact of the proposed development;

(vii) Requiring landscaping, screening, stormwater management facilities, and/or
improvement of parking and loading areas;

(viii) Limiting the number, size, location, height and/or lighting of signs;

(ix) Limiting or setting standards for the location, design, and/or intensity of outdoor
lighting;

(x) Requiring berms, screening or landscaping and the establishment of standards for
their installation and maintenance;

(xi) Requiring and designating the size, height, location and/or materials for fences;

(xii) Requiring the protection and preservation of existing trees, soils, vegetation,
watercourses, habitat areas, drainage areas, historic resources, cultural resources,
and/or sensitive lands;

(xiii) Requiring the dedication of sufficient land to the public, and/or construction of a
pedestrian/bicycle pathways in accordance with adopted plans, so long as
findings in the development approval indicate how the dedication and/or
construction, if not voluntarily accepted by the applicant, is roughly proportional
to the impact of the proposed development.  Dedication of land and design and
construction must conform to the provisions of this Chapter.

 (8) Permitted Land Uses

(a) Permitted Uses.  The land uses listed in Table 8-1 may be permitted in each of the
applicable zoning zones as listed in Table 8-1, subject to the provisions of this section.
Only land uses that are specifically listed in Table 8-1, and land uses that are approved as
“similar” to those in Table 8-1, may be permitted.

July 2013 16-26 LC 16.280
(b) Determination of Similar Land Use.  Subject to prior submittal and approval of an
application pursuant to Type II procedures of LC Chapter 14, uses and development
similar to uses and development in Table 8-1 may be allowed if found by the Director to
be “clearly similar” to the uses and development allowed by Table 8-1.  The applicant has
the burden to provide sufficient information to allow the Director to make findings on the
following criteria.  The Director  must make findings that such use is  “clearly similar”
based on the following criteria:

(i) The use and development are consistent with the purpose of this section.

(ii) When compared with the uses and development permitted by Table 8-1, the use
and development are similar to one or more of these uses and development based
on an analysis of the:

(aa) Goods or services traded from the site;
(bb) Bulk, size, and operating characteristics of the proposed use and
development;
(cc) Parking demand, customer types and traffic generation; and
(dd) Intensity of land use and  the number of jobs created on the site.   Uses
proposed in the GI zone must create a job density of 13 jobs per net
developed acre.

(iii) The use and development do not exceed the carrying capacity of the soil or of
existing water supply resources and sewer services.  Factual information must be
provided about any existing or proposed sewer or water systems for the site and
the site's ability to provide onsite sewage disposal and water supply if a
community sewer or water system is not available.

(iv) The use and development do not result in public health hazards or adverse
environmental impacts that violate state or federal regulations.

(v) The use and development comply with the other applicable provisions of this
Chapter.

Similar use determinations that are not “clearly similar” because they  do not meet the
standards above, must be made in conformance with the procedures in Lane Code Chapter
16.008; Interpretations.  Uses proposed in the GI zone must create a job density of 13 jobs
per net developed acre.

(c) Existing Uses.  Existing lawfully established uses within an industrial zone located
within the Unincorporated Community of Goshen prior to the date of adoption of the
ordinance implementing this Chapter constitute permitted uses.  Expansion or
enlargement of the above pre-existing lawfully established uses or structures are subject
to the provisions of Lane Code 16.292 and other sections as applicable.

July 2013 16-27 LC 16.280
Table 8-1: Permitted Land Uses
Land Use GI LI
Industrial
Manufacturing and production - -
Rendering plant/facility N N
Slaughter house/facility N N
Uses with a total building size of not more than 40,000 square feet P P
Rail dependent use over 40,000 square feet P P
Rail related use over 40,000 square feet on sites without rail access P P
Non-rail dependent or non-rail related use over 40,000 square feet N P
Industrial Service S* P
Towing, vehicle storage, auto and truck salvage and wrecking N S
Truck stops N S
Warehouse , Freight Movement, and Distribution S* S
Waste-Related uses N N
Wholesale sales N N
Residential
One caretaker unit is permitted for each development
NOTE: Other residential uses are not permitted, however, residences existing prior
to the effective date of this Code may continue subject to the standards in Chapter
16.251 Non-Conforming Uses and Developments.
P P
Commercial
Commercial/retail uses – existing properties with past commercial uses N P*
Vehicle, equipment and boat repair, rental, storage, service N N
Medical and dental laboratories and large animal veterinary clinics N N
Outdoor Commercial Uses (e.g., outdoor storage, Building and garden supply) N N
Small-scale personal and professional services (e.g., child care, fitness center, coffee
shop / deli, dry cleaners, barber shops and salons, copy center, banks, and financial
institutions and similar uses) up to 2500 square feet or 1% of gross floor area
(whichever is greater)

P*

P*
Equipment Rental and Repair services N S
Corporate Office/Headquarters P* P*
Mini-storage Warehouse N N
Contractor business N P
Heavy equipment sales N S
Ambulance Service/Transportation yards N N
Commercial parking lot N N
Recreation Facility (privately owned) N N
Public and Institutional
Government facilities where the public is generally not received.  (e.g., public safety,
utilities, school district bus facilities, public works yards, transit and transportation,
and similar facilities)
N S
Utilities (above ground) P* P*
Special district and Public Safety facilities ( e.g., utility district, fire station, and
similar facilities)
S S
Vocational schools N S
Public Park and Recreation Facility N S
Miscellaneous Uses
Wireless and Broadcast Communication Facilities (See LC 16.264) P P
Key to Zones:
GI = General Industrial Zone
LI = Light Industrial Zone
Key to Permitted Uses
P = Permitted; subject to subsection (6).
N = Not Permitted.
S = Special Use Permit required, subject to subsection (7).

July 2013 16-602 LC 16.280
* = Subject to Standards for Certain Uses (subsection (9)(g))

July 2013 16-601 LC 16.280

 (9) Development Standards

(a) Setbacks.  Development setbacks provide separation between industrial and non-
industrial uses for fire protection/security, building maintenance, sunlight and air
circulation, noise buffering, and visual separation.  All developments must meet
applicable fire and building code standards, which may require greater setbacks than
those listed in the following subsection. (e.g., for combustible materials, etc.)

(i) Front Yard Setbacks.

(aa) General Industrial (GI) Zone: The minimum front yard setback is 20 feet.
(bb) Light Industrial (LI) Zone: The minimum front yard setback is 10 feet.
(cc) Exceptions:

(A) Other special setbacks in conformance with Lane Code 15.065 -
15.095, Building Setback Requirements may apply.

(ii) Rear Yard Setbacks.  There is no required rear yard setback in the GI  or LI
industrial zones, except when development is abutting a residential or resource
zone.  In this situation, no building or structure or any portion of the use may be
constructed or placed closer than 20 feet from the property line of the residential
or resource zone.  Portions of buildings or structures that exceed 35 feet in height
must step back an additional ½ foot for each foot by which the building height
exceeds 35 feet.

(iii) Side Yard Setbacks.  There are no required side -yard setbacks in the GI  or LI
industrial zones, except when development is abutting a residential or resource
zone.  In this situation, no building or structure or any portion thereof may be
constructed closer than 20 feet to the residential or resource zone.  Portions of
buildings or structures that exceed 35 feet in height must  step back an additional
½ foot for each foot by which the building height exceeds 35 feet.

Table 9-1: Development Standards
Standard Light Industrial (LI) General Industrial (GI)
Minimum Front Yard 10’ 20’
Minimum Rear Yard* 0’/20’* 0’/20’*
Minimum Side Yard* 0’/20’* 0’/20’*
Maximum Lot Coverage 80% 80%
Base Building Height** 65’ 65’
Property size
(lot, parcel, or unit of land)
Minimum N/A
Maximum N/A
Minimum 35 acres
Maximum N/A
Note: Setbacks are measured from the minimum right of way widths established in Lane Code Chapter 15.
*Subject to the provisions of subsection 9(a); Setbacks
**Subject to the provisions of subsection 9(c); Building Height

(iv) Corner Lots and Through Lots.  For buildings on properties with more than
one street frontage or through lots, the minimum front yard setback standards in
Table 9-1 applies to all street frontages.

July 2013 16-602 LC 16.280
(b) Lot Coverage.  The lot coverage standards are intended to provide flexibility in
development while ensuring some provision of open space for landscaping and
stormwater management.

The maximum allowed lot coverage in the General Industrial (GI) and Light Industrial (LI)
zones is 60 percent (60%).  The maximum allowed lot coverage is computed by calculating
the total area covered by buildings including accessory structures, and comparing this
figure with the total area of the development site.  Compliance with other sections of this
code may preclude development of the maximum lot coverage for some land uses.

(c) Building Height.  The following building height standards are intended to promote land
use compatibility and flexibility for industrial development at an appropriate community
scale:

(i) Height Requirements

Base Height.  The base height for buildings and structures in the General Industrial (GI)
and Light Industrial (LI)zones is sixty five feet (65’) in height and must comply with the
building setback standards in subsection 9(a); Setbacks above.

The height limits are subject to the provisions of Lane Code (LC) 16.250(5)(a) and (b).

(ii) Exceptions

The allowable height may be increased over the base height when:

(aa) For a use located on a property or in a building that is within 100 feet of
a residential or resource zone, the height may be increased over the base
height through one of the following means:

(A) The minimum required setbacks are increased ½ foot for every
foot over the base height;
(B) Stepping-back of building height ½ foot for every foot over the
base height;

and when a Special Use Permit is approved subject to the Special Use
Permit criteria and when one or more of the mitigation methods specified
below under (iii) are applied.

(bb) For a use located on a property that is not within 100 feet of a residential
or resource zone, the height may be increased over the base height
through one on the following means:

(A) The minimum required setbacks are increased ½ foot for every
foot over the base height;
(B) Stepping-back of building height ½ foot for every foot over the
base height;

and when one or more of the following mitigation methods are applied.

July 2013 16-603 LC 16.280

(iii) Mitigation Methods.

(aa) visual buffering or screening is provided to mitigate the additional height
from surrounding properties; and/or
(bb) other appropriate measures to provide a height transition between
industrial development and abutting residential or resource zoned
property.

Non-conforming uses that are lawfully in existence at the time this ordinance is
adopted may continue to operate in conformance with Lane Code 16.251 Non-
Conforming Uses.

(d) Property Size.  One of the necessary components to provide an adequate supply of large
economic development land is to ensure that there are large property sizes available for
employment uses.  The minimum property size limit for properties (lots, parcels, or units
of land) within the GI zone are regulated to ensure efficient utilization of the existing
industrial zoned land within the community of Goshen.

Table 9-2: Property Size
Standard Light Industrial (LI) General Industrial (GI)
Property size
(lot, parcel, or unit of land)
Minimum N/A
Maximum N/A
Minimum 35 acres
Maximum N/A

(e) Land Division Standards.  Land divisions of GI zoned properties that have rail access
must preserve rail access for all newly created lots or parcels.

(f) Design Standards.

(i) Orientation.  In order to minimize adverse impacts of parking, traffic, noise,
vibration, exhaust/emissions, light, glare, erosion, odor, dust, visibility, safety,
and aesthetic considerations to and protect the privacy of abutting non-industrial
zoned properties the following standards apply to all development in the
Industrial zones when abutting to a non-industrial zone.

(aa) Openings.  No openings other than code required egress intended f or
emergency use, are allowed on any side of a building facing the non -
industrial use unless approved through a Special Use permit;

(bb) Front Entrance.  The front/main entrance of the primary building on a
property must be oriented to the street frontage and away from any
abutting non-industrial zone unless approved through a Special Use
Permit;

(cc) Equipment Standard.  Mechanical equipment, outdoor storage and
outdoor manufacturing, and service and delivery areas of an Industrial
Use that are outside of an enclosed building, must be located a minimum
of 20 feet away from abutting residential or resource zones, schools, and
parks, unless approved through a Special Use Permit;

July 2013 16-604 LC 16.280
Mechanical equipment, outdoor storage, outdoor manufacturing, and service and
delivery areas of an Industrial Use that are outside of an enclosed building must
be screened from view from all abutting public streets and abutting residential or
resource zoned properties, schools, and parks, unless approved through a Special
Use Permit.  When screening is required, such screening must be a minimum of 6
feet in height and provided by:

(A) a decorative sight obscuring wall (i.e., wood, masonry or similar
quality material),
(B) evergreen hedge,
(C) opaque/sight obscuring fence complying with subsection (11), or
(D) a similar feature that provides an opaque/sight obscuring barrier.

Walls, fences, and hedges must comply with subsection (11), Landscaping,
Fences, Walls and Screening; the vision clearance requirements of Lane Code (LC)
15.095(3) and as defined in LC 15.010(40); and provide for pedestrian circulation,
in accordance with subsection (10), Access and Circulation.

Figure 9-1 - Development Orientation

(ii) Architectural Standards.  All developments in the Industr ial Zones must be
evaluated during Site Design Review for conformance with the criteria below:

July 2013 16-605 LC 16.280
(aa) Building Mass.  Where building elevations are oriented to the street,
architectural features such as windows, pedestrian entrances, building
offsets, projections, detailing, change in materials or similar features, must
be used to break up and articulate large building surfaces and volumes
greater than 75 linear feet in length.  A minimum of 15% of the horizontal
building façade must contain a variety of architectural features.  The
horizontal building elevation facing Highway 99 or Hampton Road in all
development within the Industrial Zone with lots fronting on Highway 99
or Hampton Road must provide a minimum of 30% of the architect ural
features as described above.

Buildings over 10,000 square feet in size must incorporate changes in
building direction (i.e., articulation) and divide large masses into varying
heights and sizes.  Such changes may include building offsets; projections;
changes in elevation or horizontal direction; sheltering roofs; terraces; a
distinct pattern of divisions in surface materials; windows, and screening
trees.  The maximum width or length of a building may not exceed 80 feet
(from end-wall to end -wall), except that this standard may be increased
through the approval of a Special Use Permit.

Figure 9-2 - Architectural Features (Typical)

Note: Figure above is intended to illustrate typical building design elements, and should not be interpreted
as a required architectural style.

(g) Standards for Certain Uses.  The Industrial Zones accommodate a range of
manufacturing, industrial office uses, and secondary small-scale personal service
Commercial Uses.

(i) Small Scale personal and professional services.  Small scale personal and
professional service uses as specified in Table 8-1 must comply with the following
development standards:

July 2013 16-606 LC 16.280

(aa) Small-scale personal and professional service uses may only be allowed
when it is demonstrated that they will be secondary  to the primary use of
the building or development.  No more than 2,500 square feet or 1% of the
total square feet, whichever is greater, of a permitted use or use allowed
with a Special Use Permit m ay be occupied by a secondary  small-scale
personal and professional service use.

(ii) Accessory Uses and Structures.  Accessory uses and structures are those of a
nature customarily incidental and subordinate to the primary use or structure on
the same lo t.  Typical accessory structures include detached garages, sheds,
workshops, green houses and similar structures not intended for habitation by
people.  Accessory uses and structures are allowed for all permitted land uses
within the Industrial Zones.  All accessory structures must have a building permit
if required and comply with all of the following development standards:

(aa) Primary use required.  An accessory structure or use is  not allowed on a
lot before an allowed primary use is established.

(bb) Restrictions.  Accessory uses and structures may not be placed over an
easement where such placement would be inconsistent with use of the
easement, and may not encroach into the public right-of-way.

(cc) Compliance with land division standards.  The owner may be required to
remove an accessory structure as a condition of land division approval
when removal of the structure is necessary to comply with setback
standards.

(dd) Setback Standards.  Accessory structures must comply with the setback
standards of the underlying zone.

(iii) Industrial Service uses in GI zone.  Industrial service uses are only allowed in
the GI zone when secondary and subordinate to an approved primary use, and
when the use is demonstrated to satisfy the following:

(aa) Create a job density of 13 jobs per net developed acre at build out of the
proposed use.

(iv) Commercial/retail uses – existing properties with past commercial uses.
Commercial/retail uses are permitted on a property(ies) with a history of
commercial/retail use where the primary use is located on property that prior to
the date of the adoption of this section was under ¼ acre is size.  The use is
subject to other applicable sections of this chapter.  Any modification, addition,
or alteration of the previous use or structures related to the use is subject to the
applicable provisions of this Section 16.280.  Commercial/retail use is limited to
3000 square feet in size.

(v) Utilities.  Utility uses include the erection, construction, alteration, or
maintenance of underground, overhead electrical, gas, steam or water
transmission or distribution systems, collection, communication, supply or
disposal system, including utility poles, wires, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits,

July 2013 16-607 LC 16.280
cables and other similar equipment and accessories located outside of the public
right of way.

Utility uses are only those conducted or operated by a public utility of municipal
or other governmental agencies or licensed franchise.

Utility poles may exceed the height limits otherwise provided for in the
applicable zone.  In considering an application for a public or licensed franchise
utility use, the Approval Authority must determine that all utility poles, overhead
wires, pumping stations, equipment shelters and similar gear are located,
designed and installed as to minimize their visual impacts.  The Approval
Authority may require screening as a condition of approval.

(vi) Corporate Office/Headquarters.  Corporate Office/Headquarters use is only
allowed when directly associated with and subordinate to a primary permitted use
or use allowed with a Special Use Permit on the same site.  The portion of the
corporate office/headquarter use must not exceed 25% of the square footage of
the total building size for the entire primary use.

(vii) Warehouse, Freight Movement, and Distribution.  Warehouse, Freight
Movement, and Distribution use is allowed in the GI zone when it is secondary
and subordinate to an approve primary use OR allowed as a primary use when it
is demonstrated to satisfy the following:

(aa) Create a job density of 13 jobs per net developed acre at build out of the
proposed use.
(bb) Create jobs that pay no less than an average of 150% of the median
wage.
(cc) Demonstrate that they are Rail Dependent, as defined in LC 16.280
above.

(10) Access and Circulation

(a) Purpose.  The purpose of this subsection, Access and Circulation is to ensure that
developments provide safe and efficient access and circulation for pedestrians and
vehicles.  The requirements of this subsection apply in addition to the provisions of Lane
Code Chapter 15.

(b) Vehicular Access and Circulation

(i) Access.  The access and facility permit provisions of Lane Code 15 must be met.

(ii) Construction

(aa) Surface Options.  On site driveways, parking areas, aisles, and
turnarounds may be paved with asphalt, concrete, or comparable
surfacing, or a durable non-paving or porous paving material may be used
to reduce surface water runoff and protect water quality.  Driveway and
street materials may be subject to review and approval by the County
Engineer.

July 2013 16-608 LC 16.280
(bb) Stormwater Management.   When non-porous paving is used, all
driveways, parking areas, aisles, and turnarounds must  have on-site
collection of surface waters to eliminate sheet flow of such waters onto
public rights-of-way and abutting property.  Surface water facilities must
be constructed in conformance with sub section (16)(d), Stormwater
Management Requirements, and applicable engineering standards.

(c) Pedestrian Access and Circulation

(i) Site Layout and Design.  To ensure safe, direct, and convenient pedestrian
circulation, all developments must provide a continuous pedestrian system.  The
pedestrian system must be designed to meet the standards below:

(aa) Continuous Walkway System.  An on-site pedestrian walkway system
must connect within the development according to (cc)(A -C) below, and
connect to any future phases of development, and to any existing or
planned off-site abutting trails, public parks, and open space a reas unless
approved through a Special Use Permit.  The developer may also be
required to connect or stub walkway(s) to abutting streets and to private
property with a previously reserved public access easement for this
purpose, in accordance with the provisions of  subsection (10)(b),
Vehicular Access and Circulation, and subsection (16)(b), Roads.

(bb) Safe, Direct, and Convenient.   Walkways within developments must
provide safe, reasonably direct, and convenient connections between
primary building entrances and all abutting streets, based on the following
definitions:

(A) Reasonably direct.  A route that does not deviate unnecessarily
from a straight line or a route that does not involve a significant
amount of out-of-direction travel for users.

(B) Safe and convenient.  Routes that are reasonably free from hazards
and provide a reasonably direct route of travel between destinations.

(C) "Primary entrance" for commercial, industrial, mixed use,
public, and institutional buildings is the main public e ntrance to
the building.  In the case where no public entrance exists, street
connections must be provided to the main employee entrance.

(cc) Connections within Development.  Connections within developments
must be provided as required in subsections (A)-(C), below:

(A) Walkways must connect all building entrances to one another, as
generally shown in Figures 10-1 through 10-3;

(B) Walkways must connect all on-site parking areas, storage areas,
recreational facilities and common areas, and must connect
public off-site abutting uses to the site.  Topographic or existing
development constraints may be cause for not making certain
walkway connections;

July 2013 16-609 LC 16.280
(C) Large parking areas must be broken up so that no contiguous
parking area exceeds three (3) acres.  Parking areas may be
broken up with plazas, large landscape areas with pedestrian
access ways (i.e., at least 20 feet total width), streets, or
driveways with street-like features, Street-like features, for the
purpose of this subsection, means a raised sidewalk of at least 4-
feet in width, 6-inch curb, accessible curb ramps, street trees in
planter strips or tree wells, and pedestrian-oriented lighting.

July 2013 16-610 LC 16.280
Figure 10-1 - Pedestrian Walkway System (Typical)

Figure 10-2 - Pedestrian Walkway System (Typical)

(ii) Walkway Design and Construction.  Walkways, including those provided with
pedestrian access ways, must conform to all of the standards in subsections (aa)-
(dd) below, as generally illustrated in Figures 10-1 through 10-3:

(aa) Vehicle/Walkway Separation.  Except for crosswalks, where a walkway
abuts a driveway or street, walkways must be raised 6 inches and curbed
along the edge of the driveway/street.  Alternatively, the decision body
may approve a walkway abutting a driveway at the same grade as the
driveway if the walkway is protected from all vehicle maneuvering areas.
An example of such protection is a row of decorative metal or concrete
bollards designed to withstand a vehicle’s impact, with adequate minimum
spacing between them to protect pedestrians.

July 2013 16-611 LC 16.280

(bb) Crosswalks.  Where walkways cross a parking area, driveway, or street
(“crosswalk”), they must  be clearly marked with contrasting paving
materials (e.g., light-color concrete inlay between asphalt), which may be
part of a raised/hump crossing area.  Painted or thermo-plastic striping and
similar types of non -permanent applications may be approved for
crosswalks not exceeding 24 feet in length.

(cc) Walkway Width and Surface.  Walkway and accessway surfaces must
be concrete, asphalt, brick/masonry  pavers, or other durable surface, as
approved by the County Engineer, at least six (6) feet wide.  Multi -use
paths (i.e., for bicycles and pedestrians) must be concrete or asphalt, at
least 10 feet wide.

(dd) Accessible routes.  Walkways must comply with applicable Americans
with Disabilities Act (ADA) requirements.  The ends of all raised
walkways, where the walkway intersects a driveway or street must provide
ramps that are ADA accessible, and walkways must  provide direct routes
to primary building entrances.

Figure 10-3 - Pedestrian Walkway Detail (Typical)

July 2013 16-612 LC 16.280
(11) Landscaping, Fences, Walls and Screening

(a) Purpose.  The purpose of this subsection, Landscaping, Fences, Walls and Screening is
to promote community health, safety, and welfare by setting development standards for
landscaping, fences, walls and screening.  Together, these elements of the natural and
built environment contribute to the visual quality, environmental health, and character of
the community.  Trees provide climate control through shading during summer months
and wind screening during winter.  Trees and other plants can also buffer pedestrians
from traffic.  Walls, fences, trees, and other landscape materials also provide vital
screening and buffering between land uses.  Landscaped areas help to control surface
water drainage and can improve water quality, as compared to paved or built surfaces.

(b) Landscaping

(i) Applicability.  This subsection applies to all new developments requiring Site
Design Review.

(ii) Landscaping Plan Required.  Submittal of a landscape plan is required.  All
landscape plans must conform to the requirements in subs ection (6)(e)(i)(ee)
(Landscape Plans).

(iii) Landscape Area Standards.  The minimum percentage of required landscaping
equals:

(aa) General Industrial (GI) Zone.  20 percent of the site.

(bb) Light Industrial (LI) Zone.  10 percent of the site.

(iv) Landscape Materials.  Permitted landscape materials include trees, shrubs,
ground cover plants, non-plant ground covers, and outdoor hardscape features, as
described below.  “Coverage” is based on the projected size of the plants at
maturity, i.e., typically three (3) or more years after planting.

(aa) Existing Vegetation.  Ex isting non-invasive vegetation may be used in
meeting landscape requirements.  When existing mature trees are
protected on the site (e.g., within or abutting to parking areas) the applicant
is permitted to reduce the number of new trees required by a ratio  of one
(1) inch caliper of new tree(s) for every one (1) inch caliper of existing
tree(s) protected.

(bb) Plant Selection.  A combination of deciduous and evergreen trees, shrubs,
and ground covers must  be used for all planted areas, the selection of
which must be based on local climate, exposure, water availability, and
drainage conditions.  When new vegetation is planted, soils must  be
amended, as necessary, to allow for healthy plant growth.

(cc) Non-native, invasive plants .  Non -native, invasive plants must  be
removed during site development and the planting of new invasive species
is prohibited.

July 2013 16-613 LC 16.280
(dd) Hardscape features.  Includes patios, decks, plazas and similar features.
These features may cover  up to ten 10 percent of the required landscape
area.

(ee) Ground Cover Standard.  All landscaped areas, whether or not required,
that is not planted with trees and shrubs, or covered with non -plant
material, must have ground cover plants that are sized and spaced as
follows: a minimum of one plant per 12 inches on center in triangular
spacing, or other planting pattern that is designed to achieve 75 percent
coverage of the area not covered by shrubs and tree canopy within three
(3) years of planting.

(ff) Tree Size.  Trees must have a minimum diameter or caliper 4 feet above
grade of two [2] inches or greater at time of planting.

(gg) Shrub Size.   Shrubs must be planted from a minimum of 3 gallon
containers or larger.

(hh) Non-plant Ground Covers.  Bark  dust, chips, aggregate, or other non-
plant ground covers may be used, but must cover no more than 25 percent
of the area to be landscaped and must  be confined to areas underneath
plants.  Non-plant ground covers cannot be a substitute for ground cover
plants.

(ii) Stormwater Management Facilities.  Stormwater management facilities
(e.g., detention/retention ponds and swales designed for water quality
treatment), when required under subsection (16)(d), must be landscaped in
accordance with the design requirements of that subsection.

(v) Landscape Design Standards.  All yards, parking lots, and required street tree
planter strips must be landscaped to provide, as applicable, erosion control, visual
interest, buffering, privacy, open space an d pathway identification, shading, and
wind buffering, based on the following criteria:

(aa) Yard Setback Landscaping.  Landscaping in yards must:

(A) Provide visual screening and privacy within side and rear yards;
while leaving front yards and building entrances mostly visible for
security purposes;

(B) Use shrubs and trees as wind breaks where appropriate;

(C) Define pedestrian pathways and open space areas with landscape
materials where appropriate;

(D) Provide focal points within a development, for example, by
preserving large or unique trees or groves, hedges, and flowering
plants where appropriate;

(E) Use trees to provide summer shading within common open space
areas and within front yards when street trees cannot be provided;

July 2013 16-614 LC 16.280
(F) Use a combination of plants for year-long color and interest;

(G) Screen outdoor storage and mechanical equipment areas in
accordance with subsection (11)(d) below, and to enhance graded
areas such as berms, swales, and detention/retention ponds or
swales.

(bb) Parking areas.  A minimum of 10 percent of the total surface area of all
parking areas, as measured around the perimeter of all parking spaces and
maneuvering areas, must be landscaped.  Such landscaping must  consist
of “evenly distributed” shade trees where practical, with shrubs and/or
ground cover plants that conform to the criteria in sub section
(11)(b)(iv)(aa-ii) above.

“Evenly distributed” means that the trees and other plants are distributed
around the parking lot perimeter and between parking bays to provide a
partial canopy where practical.  Required trees may be clustered to provide
visual interest.  At a minimum, one tree per 6  parking spaces on average
must be planted to create a partial tree canopy over and around the parking
area.  All parking areas with more than 50 spaces must include landscape
islands with trees to break up the parking area so that no parking space is
more than 70 feet away from a landscape island.  All parking area
landscape beds must  have dimensions of not less than 24 square feet of
area, or not less than 4 feet in width by 6 feet in length, to ensure adequate
soil, water, and space for healthy plant growth.

(cc) Parking/Maneuvering Area Abutting to Building.  Where a parking or
maneuvering area, or driveway, is abutting to a building, the area must
be separated from the building by a curb and a raised walkway, plaza, or
landscaped buffer not less than 5 feet in width along the length of the
abutting area.  Raised curbs, bollards, wheel stops, or other design
features must be used to protect pedestrians, landscaping, and buildings
from being damaged by vehicles.

(vi) Buffering

(aa) A 20-foot minimum buffer zone is required between Industrial
development in either the GI or LI zone and any abutting residential or
resource zoned property.  The buffer zone must be landscaped according
to the landscaping provisions of this subsection to screen industrial
activities such as parking, service and delivery areas, from residential or
resource zones.  The buffer must not contain any trash receptacles or
storage of equipment, materials, vehicles, or mechanical equipment, etc.

For uses that require a Special Use Permit, the approval body may require
landscaping, fences, walls or other buffering that exceed the landscaping
standards in this subsection when it finds through Special Use Permit
review, subsection (7), that additiona l or different buffering is necessary
to mitigate adverse impacts from parking, traffic, noise, vibration,
exhaust/emissions, light, glare, erosion, odor, dust, visibility, safety, and
aesthetic considerations to and protect the privacy.

July 2013 16-615 LC 16.280
(bb) Pedestrian Access.  The approval body may require the construction of
pedestrian access ways through required buffers to ensure pedestrian
connections within large developments, between multiple development
phases, or connecting to public sidewalks, walkways, or multi-use
pathways.  The design of access ways must conform to subsection (10),
Parking and Loading.

(vii) Maintenance and Irrigation.  The use of drought-tolerant plant species is
encouraged.  Irrigation must be provided.  If the plantings fail to survive, the
property owner must replace them within 6 months with an equivalent specimen
(i.e., evergreen shrub replaces evergreen shrub, deciduous tree replaces
deciduous tree, etc.).  All human-made features required by this Chapter must be
maintained in good condition, or otherwise replaced by the owner.

(c) Fences and Walls.  Construction of fences and walls must conform to all of the
following requirements:

(i) General Requirements.  All fences and walls must comply with the development
standards and height limitations of the respective zone, subsection (9)
Development Standards, and the standards of this sub section.  The County may
require installation of walls and/or fences as a condition of development approval,
in accordance with land division approval (e.g., flag lots), approval of a Special
Use Permit, or Site Design Review approval.  When required through one of these
types of approvals, no further land use review is required.  If not part of a prior
land use approval, new fences and walls require Land Use Review approval; if
greater than 6 feet in height, a building permit is also required.

(ii) Dimensions

(aa) Except as provided under subsection (11)(d), Screening, below, the height
of fences and walls within a front yard setback is limited to  4 feet as
measured from the grade closest to the street right-of-way.

(bb) A retaining wall exceeding 4 feet in height within a front yard setback,
which is necessary for sit e grading and development, may be approved
through a land division or Site Design Review.

(cc) One arbor, gate, or similar garden structure not exceeding 8 feet in height
and 4 feet in width is allowed within the front yard, provided that it is not
within a clear vision triangle , unless approved through a Special Use
Permit.

(dd) Fences and walls must comply with the vision clear zone of Lane Code
(LC) 15.095(3) and as defined in LC 15.010(40).

(iii) Maintenance.  For safety and for compliance with the purpose of this subsection,
walls and fences required as a condition of development approval must be
maintained in good condition, or otherwise replaced by the property owner.

(iv) Materials

July 2013 16-616 LC 16.280
(aa) Permitted fence and wall materials: wood; metal; bricks, stone; stucco, or
similar masonry, and non-prohibited evergreen plants.

(bb) Prohibited fence and wall materials: concrete blocks; straw bales; barbed
or razor wire; scrap lumber, metal, or other scrap materials; hedges higher
than 8 feet.

(cc) Fences or walls that are taller than 6 feet may require a building permit.

(v) Fencing

(aa) Perimeter Fencing.  Lot perimeter fencing is only permitted within the
Industrial zones under the conditions set forth in Table 11-1, Fencing
Conditions.

(bb) Standard Fencing.  Standard non-decorative fencing may be installed in
areas not visible from street rights of way or adjoining properties within
the Industrial zones.  Standard fencing also may be used as specified in
Table 9-1.  A minimum quality of standard fencing is  black vinyl-coated
chain link.

(cc) Upgraded Fencing.  Upgraded fencing must  be provided as specified in
Table 11-1.  Upgraded fencing is intended to provide limited security,
discourage trespass, and provide an informative demarcation between uses
(e.g., public / private, institutional / private / public, etc.).  Design
considerations for upgraded fencing must include:

(A) Simplicity as opposed to excessive ornamentation.
(B) Low maintenance / ease of landscape maintenance on each side.
(C) Respect for t he design theme of established development on
abutting parcels.
(D) A clear relationship to the building’s architecture.
(E) Consideration of a standard design where a large property shares
a common boundary with several smaller properties.

(dd) Architectural Screen Walls.  Architectural screen walls must be used to
screen service and loading areas; above-ground utilities such as
transformers and generators, exterior material and equipment storage
areas, work yards, and trash and/or recycling areas.  Architectural screen
walls may be used to screen other on-site amenities such as private patios
and employee break areas.  Architectural screen walls must  be integrated
into the overall building architectural statement, employing materials and
colors drawn from the building design palette.  The required size of an area
enclosed by an architectural screen wall is  the minimum necessary to
accommodate the facility or operation that is to be screened.

(vi) Fencing on Steep Slopes.  Properties with more extreme variations in
topography (e.g., substantial slopes abutting to relatively flat areas) must employ
fencing and/or screening design approaches that are thoughtfully integrated with
the site’s unique characteristics while fulfilling the overall functional intent of
these features.  Stair-step fence profiles are not allowed.

July 2013 16-617 LC 16.280
Table 11-1 Fencing Conditions
Condition Sub-condition Required Treatment
(Minimum Standard)
Property line adjacent to a public
right of way.
Improved right of way. Upgraded fencing.
Unimproved right of way. No requirement prior to
development.
Property line adjacent to the
railroad right of way.
 Standard Fencing.
Property line on the west or south
perimeter of the Goshen
Industrial area.
Adjacent to residential or
resource zoned property.
Standard Fencing.
Adjacent to Commercial zoned
property.
Upgraded Fencing.
Adjacent to permanent open
space.
Upgraded Fencing.
Adjacent to Public Facility zoned
property.
Standard Fencing
Property line adjacent to a park or
open space.
 Upgraded Fencing.
Property line on the east
perimeter of the Goshen
Industrial area.
Adjacent to residential or
resource zoned property.
Upgraded Fencing.
Adjacent to commercial zoned
property.
Upgraded Fencing.
Fencing/Screening around a
Loading or Exterior storage area.
Visible from the right of way. Architectural Screen Wall.
Not visible from the right of way. Standard Fencing.
Screening around a trash and/or
recycling enclosure or exterior
storage.
 Architectural Screen Wall.
Fencing around a secure parking
lot.
Visible from the right of way. Upgraded Fencing.
Not visible from the right of way. Standard Fencing.

(d) Screening

Screening Required.  Screening is required under the following conditions:

(i) Screening of Mechanical Equipment, Outdoor Storage, Service and Delivery
Areas.  All mechanical equipment, outdoor storage and manufacturing, and
service and delivery areas, must be screened from view from all abutting public
streets and abutting residential or resource zones.  This required screening is
required to be a minimum of 6 feet in height and provided by:

(aa) a decorative wall (i.e., masonry or similar quality material);
(bb) evergreen hedge;
(cc) opaque fence complying with subsection (11)(c); or
(dd) a similar feature that provides an opaque barrier.

Walls, fences, and hedges must comply with the vision clearance requirements of
Lane Code (LC) 15.095(3) and as defined in LC 15.010(40)  and provide for
pedestrian circulation, in accordance with subsection (10), Access and Circulation.

(ii) Parking/Maneuvering Area Abutting Streets and Drives.  Where a parking or
maneuvering area is abutting and parallel to a street or driveway, an evergreen

July 2013 16-618 LC 16.280
hedge; decorative wall (masonry or similar quality material) with openings; or
arcade, trellis, or similar partially opaque structure 3-4 feet in height is required
between the parking or maneuvering area and the street or driveway.  The
required screening must have breaks, where necessary, to allow pedestrians
access to the site.  The design of the wall or screening must also provide breaks
or openings for visual surveillance of the site and security.  Evergreen hedges
used to comply with this standard must be a minimum of 36 inches in height
within three (3) years of planting, and must be of such species, number, and
spacing to provide the required screening within three (3) years after planting.
Any areas between the wall/hedge and the street/driveway line must be
landscaped with plants or other vegetative ground cover.

(iii) Flag Lot Screen.  In approving a flag lot, the County may require a landscape
screen, fence or both be installed along property line(s) of the flag lot, for privacy
of adjoining property, in accordance with the provisions of this subsection.  A
flag lot screen is not required if the abutting property owner(s) indicate in writing
that they do not want a screen or fence, however, the owner may install one at the
owner’s discretion.

(12) Parking and Loading

(a) Purpose.  The purpose of this subsection, Parking and Loading, is to provide basic and
flexible standards for development of vehicle and bicycle parking.  The design of parking
areas is critically important to the economic viability of some employment areas, pedestrian
and driver safety, the efficient and safe operation of adjoining streets, and community
image and livability.  Historically, some communities have required more parking than is
necessary for some land uses, paving extensive areas of land that could be put to better use.
Because vehicle parking facilities occupy large amounts of land, they must be planned and
designed carefully to use the land efficiently, minimize stormwater runoff, and maintain the
visual character of the community.  This subsection recognizes that each development has
unique parking needs and provides a flexible approach for determining parking space
requirements (i.e., “minimum” and “performance-based” standards).  This subsection also
provides standards for bicycle parking because many people use bicycles for recreation,
commuting, and general transportation.  Children as well as adults need safe and
adequate spaces to park their bicycles throughout the community.

(b) Applicability.  All developments subject to Site Design Review, subsection (6) including
development of parking facilities, must comply with the provisions of this subsection.

(c) Automobile Parking Standards

(i) Vehicle Parking - Minimum Standards by Use.  The number of r equired off-
street vehicle parking spaces must be determined in accordance with the standards
in Table 12-1, or alternatively, through a separate parking demand analysis
prepared by the applicant and subject to a Special Use Permit approval .  Where a
use is not specifically listed in this table, parking requirements are determined by
finding that a use is similar to one of those listed in terms of parking needs, or by
estimating parking needs individually using the demand analysis option described
above.  Parking that counts toward the minimum requirement is parking in garages,
carports, parking lots, bays along driveways, shared parking, and designated on-
street parking.

July 2013 16-619 LC 16.280
Table 12-1 – Minimum Required Parking by Use
Use Categories
(Examples of uses are i n Chapter
1.4; definitions are in Chapter 1.3.)
Minimum Parking per Land Use
(fractions rounded down to the closest whole number)
Commercial Categories
Offices 2 spaces per 1,000 sq. ft. floor area
Self-Service Storage No standard

Industrial  Categories
Industrial Service  1 space per 1,000 sq. ft. of floor area
Manufacturing and Production  1 space per 1,000 sq. ft. of floor area
Warehouse and Freight Movement 0.5 space per 1,000 sq. ft. of floor area
Wholesale Sales
- fully enclosed
- not enclosed

1 space per 1,000 sq. ft.
per SUP review (subsection (7))

(ii) Vehicle Parking - Minimum Accessible Parking

(aa) Accessible parking must be provided for all uses in accordance the
standards in Table 12-2; parking spaces used to meet the standards in
Table 12-2 are counted toward meeting off-street parking requirements
in Table 12-1;
(bb) Such parking must be located in close proximity to building entrances
and must be designed to permit occupants of vehicles to reach the
entrance on an unobstructed path or walkway;
(cc) Accessible spaces must be grouped in pairs where possible;
(dd) Where covered parking is provided, covered accessible spaces must be
provided in the same ratio as covered non-accessible spaces;
(ee) Required accessible parking spaces must be identified with signs and
pavement markings identifying them as reserved for persons with
disabilities; signs must be posted directly in front of the parking space at
a height of no less than 42 inches and no more than 72 inches above
pavement level.  Van spaces must be specifically identified as such.

THIS SPACE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

July 2013 16-620 LC 16.280
 Table 12-2 - Minimum Number of Accessible Parking Spaces
(Source: ADA Standards for Accessible Design)
Total Number of
Parking Spaces
Provided (per lot)
Total Minimum
Number of
Accessible Parking
Spaces (with 60”
access aisle, or 96”
aisle for vans*)
Van Accessible
Parking Spaces
with min. 96” wide
access aisle
Accessible Parking
Spaces w ith min. 60”
wide access aisle

1 to 25

Column A

1

1

0
26 to 50 2 1 1
51 to 75 3 1 2
76 to 100 4 1 3
101 to 150 5 1 4
151 to 200 6 1 5
201 to 300 7 1 6
301 to 400 8 1 7
401 to 500 9 2 7
501 to 1000 2% of total parking
provided in each lot
1/8 of Column
A**
7/8 of Column A***
1001 20 plus 1 for each
100 over 1000

1/8 of Column
A**
7/8 of Column A***
*vans and cars may share access aisles
**one out of every 8 accessible spaces ***7 out of every 8 accessible parking spaces

(iv) On-Street Parking.  On-street parking must conform to the following standards:

(aa) Dimensions.  The following constitutes one on-street parking space:

(A) Parallel parking, each 22 feet of uninterrupted curb;
(B) 45 degree diagonal, each with 12 feet of curb;
(C) 90 degree (perpendicular) parking, each with 12 feet of curb.

(bb) Location.  Parking may be counted toward the minimum standards in
Table 12-1 when it is on the block face abutting the subject land use.
On-street parking spaces must be located such that when occupied they
do not obstruct a required clear vision area and do not violate any law or
street standard.

(cc) Public Use Required for Credit.  On-street parking spaces counted
toward meeting the parking requirements of a specific use may not be
used exclusively by that use, but must be available for general public use
at all times.  Signs or other actions that limit general public use of on-
street spaces are prohibited.

(v) Shared parking.  Required parking facilities for two or more uses, structures, or
parcels of land may be satisfied by the same parking facilities used jointly, to the
extent that the owners or operators show that the need for parking facilities does

July 2013 16-621 LC 16.280
not materially overlap (e.g., uses primarily of a daytime versus nighttime nature;
weekday uses versus weekend uses), and provided that the right of joint use is
evidenced by a recorded deed, lease, contract, or similar written instrument
establishing the joint use.  The County may approve owner requests for shared
parking through Land Use Review.

(vi) Off-site parking.  Except for single-family dwellings, the required vehicle
parking spaces may be located on another parcel of land, provided the parcel is
within ¼ mile of the use it serves and the County has approved the off-site
parking through a Special Use Permit.  The distance from the parking area to the
use is measured from the nearest parking space to a building entrance, following
a sidewalk or other pedestrian route.  The right to use the off-site parking must be
evidenced by a recorded deed, lease, easement, or similar written instrument.

(vii) General Parking Standards

(aa) Location.  Parking is allowed only on streets, within garages, carports,
and other structures, or on driveways or parking lots that have been
developed in conformance with this code.  Subsection (10), Access and
Circulation, provides design standards for driveways.  Street parking
spaces must not include space in a vehicle travel lane (including
emergency or fire access lanes), pedestrian accessway, landscape, or
other undesignated area.

(bb) Mixed uses.  If more than one type of land use occupies a single
structure or parcel of land, the total requirements for off-street
automobile parking is the sum of the requirements for all uses, unless it
can be shown that the peak parking demands are actually less (e.g., the
uses operate on different days or at different times of the day).  The
County may reduce the total parking required accordingly through Site
Design Review.

(cc) Availability of facilities.  Owners of off-street parking facilities may
post a sign indicating that all parking on the site is available only for
residents, customers, and/or employees.  Signs must conform to the
standards of subsection (15), Signs.

(dd) Lighting.  Parking areas must have lighting to provide at least 2 foot-
candles of illumination over parking spaces and walkways.  Lighting
must meet the requirements of subsection (14), Outdoor Lighting
Standards.

(ee) Screening of Parking Areas.  Parking spaces must be located or
screened so that headlights do not shine onto abutting residential or
resource uses.  Screening for this purposed must meet the requirements
of subsection (11)(d), Screening.

(ff) Parking and Loading Setback.  Where an Industrial zone abuts a
residential or resource zone, any off-street parking and loading areas
must be set back at least 20 feet from the abutting residential or resource
property line and the setback area must be landscaped to provide a buffer

July 2013 16-622 LC 16.280
along the adjoining residential or resource property.  Landscaping must
be maintained by the property owner and must meet the standards of
subsections (11)(b), Landscaping.

(gg) Parking and Circulation.  No vehicle circulation or parking except for
access driveways must be permitted within any required minimum front
yard setback area.

(viii) Parking Stall Design and Minimum Dimensions.  All off-street parking spaces
must be improved to conform to County standards for surfacing, stormwater
management, and striping or as otherwise allowed in Chapter 16.280.  Standard
parking spaces must conform to the following standards:

(aa) Motor vehicle parking spaces must measure eight (8) feet six (6) inches
wide by eighteen (18) feet long or by sixteen (16) feet long, with not
more than a two (2) foot overhang when allowed;
(bb) All parallel motor vehicle parking spaces must measure eight (8) feet six
(6) inches by twenty-two (22) feet;
(cc) Parking area layout must conform to the dimensions in Figure 12-1 and
12-2, and Table 12-3 below;
(dd) Parking areas must conform to Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
standards for parking spaces (dimensions, van accessible parking spaces,
etc.).  Parking structure vertical clearance, van accessible parking spaces,
should refer to Federal ADA guidelines; and
(ee) Bicycle parking must be on a two (2) feet by six (6) feet minimum
concrete pad per bike, or within a garage or patio of residential use.
Bicycle parking must consist of a securely fixed structure that supports
the bicycle frame in a stable position without damage to wheels, frame,
or components and that allows the frame and both wheels to be locked to
the rack by the bicyclist's own locking device.

Figure 12-1 - Parking Area Layout

July 2013 16-623 LC 16.280

Figure 12-2 ADA Parking Requirements

Table 12-3 - Parking Area Layout
Standard
Space

(See Figure
10-2 for ADA
space
requirements)
PARKING
ANGLE

CURB
LENGTH

STALL DEPTH AISLE
WIDTH BAY WIDTH STRIPE
LENGTH

SINGLE
D1

DOUBLE
D2
ONE
WAY
A1
TWO
WAY
A2
ONE
WAY
B1
TWO
WAY
B2
90° 8'-6" 18' 36' 23' 23' 59' 59' 18'
60° 10' 20' 40' 17' 18' 57' 58' 23'
45° 12' 18'-6" 37' 13' 18' 50' 55' 26'-6"
30° 17' 16'-6" 33' 12' 18' 45' 51' 32'-8"
0° 22' 8'-6" 17' 12' 18' 29' 35' 8'-6"

Important cross-references:
See also sub section (10), Access and Circulation, for driveway standards; sub section (11), Landscaping,
Fences, Walls and Screening; and subsection (16)(d), Stormwater Management.

(d) Bicycle Parking Requirements.  All uses that are subject to Site Design Review must
provide bicycle parking, in conformance with the standards in Table 12-4, and
subsections (i-viii), below.

(i) Minimum Required Bicycle Parking Spaces.  Uses must provide long- and
short-term bicycle parking spaces, as designated in Table 12-4.  Where two
options are provided (e.g., 2 spaces, or 1 per 12,000 square feet of floor area), the
option resulting in more bicycle parking is used.

THIS SPACE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

July 2013 16-624 LC 16.280
Table 12-4 - Minimum Required Bicycle Parking Spaces
Use Categories Specific Uses  Long-term Spaces
(covered or enclosed)
Short-term Spaces
(near building entry)
Commercial Categories
Retail Sales And Service   2, or 1 per 12,000 sq. ft.
of floor area
2, or 1 per 5,000 sq. ft.
of floor area
Office   2, or 1 per 10,000 sq. ft.
of floor area
2, or 1 per 40,000 sq.
ft. of floor area
Industrial Categories
Manufacturing And
Production
 2, or 1 per 15,000 sq. ft.
of floor area
None
Warehouse And Freight
Movement
 2, or 1 per 40,000 sq. ft.
of floor area
None

(ii) Exemptions.  This subsection does not apply to single-family and two-family
housing (attached, detached, or manufactured housing), home occupations,
agriculture and livestock uses.

(iii) Location and Design.  Bicycle parking should be no farther from the main
building entrance than the distance to the closest vehicle space, or 50 feet,
whichever is less.  Long-term (i.e., covered) bicycle parking should be
incorporated whenever possible into building design.  Short-term bicycle
parking, when allowed within a public right-of-way, should be coordinated with
the design of street furniture, as applicable.  Bicycle parking must consist of a
securely fixed structure that supports the bicycle frame in a stable position
without damage to wheels, frame, or components and that allows the frame and
both wheels to be locked to the rack by the bicyclist's own locking device;

(iv) Visibility and Security.  Bicycle parking for customers and visitors of a use
must be visible from street sidewalks or building entrances, so that it provides
sufficient security from theft and damage;

(v) Options for Storage.  Long-term bicycle parking requirements for employee
parking can be met by providing a bicycle storage room, bicycle lockers, racks,
or other secure storage space inside or outside of the building;

(vi) Lighting.  For security, bicycle parking must be at least as well lit as vehicle
parking.

(vii) Reserved Areas.  Areas set aside for bicycle parking must be clearly marked and
reserved for bicycle parking only.

(viii) Hazards.  Bicycle parking must not impede or create a hazard to pedestrians.
Parking areas must be located so as to not conflict with any vision clear zone.

(e) Loading Areas

(i) Purpose.  The purpose of this subsection of the Code is to provide standards (1)
for a minimum number of off-street loading spaces that will ensure adequate
loading areas for large uses and developments, and (2) to ensure that the
appearance of loading areas is consistent with that of parking areas.

July 2013 16-625 LC 16.280

(ii) Applicability.  Subsection (12)(e) applies to non-residential and mixed-use
buildings with 20,000 square feet or more total floor area.

(iii) Number of Loading Spaces

(aa) Non-residential and mixed-use buildings.  Buildings where any floor area
is in non-residential uses must meet the following standards:

(i) Less than 20,000 square feet total floor area:  No loading spaces
required.

(ii) 20,000 to 50,000 square feet of total floor area:  One loading
space.

(iii) More than 50,000 square feet of total floor area:  Two loading
spaces.

(iv) Size of Spaces.  Required loading spaces must be at least 35 feet long and 10 feet
wide, and must have a height clearance of at least 13 feet.

(v) Placement, setbacks, and landscaping.  Loading areas must conform to the
setback and perimeter landscaping standards in subsection (9) Development
Standards, and subsection (11) Landscaping, Fences, Walls and Screening.
Where parking areas are prohibited between a building and the street, loading
areas are also prohibited.

(13) Noise Standards

All new development must be designed and constructed so that operation of the uses on the property
will comply with the State of Oregon Noise Control Regulations contained in Oregon Administrative Rule
(OAR) 340-035-0005 thru 340-035-0100, where applicable.  The County requires as an ongoing condition
of approval that these standards are met.

(14) Outdoor Lighting Standards

(a) Purpose.  The purpose of this subsection, Outdoor Lighting Standards is to allow citizens,
businesses, and public agencies in the community of Goshen to illuminate commercial,
industrial, public areas, roadways and walkways with lighting fixtures appropriate to the
need while using such illumination in a way that preserves vistas and is directed onto and
is confined to the property from which the light is generated.

(b) Outdoor Lighting Fixtures Subject to this Ordinance .  Light fixtures subject to the
standards in subsection (14)(c) are outdoor artificial illuminating devices, outdoor fixtures,
lamps and other similar devices, permanently installed or portable, used for flood lighting,
general illumination or advertisement.  Such devices must include, but are not limited to,
lights for:

(i) Buildings and structures;
(ii) Recreational areas;
(iii) Parking lot and maneuvering areas;
(iv) Landscape areas;

July 2013 16-626 LC 16.280
(v) Streets and street signs;
(vi) Product display area;
(vii) Building overhangs and open canopies;
(viii) Holiday celebrations;
(ix) Construction Lights;

(c) Standards for installation and operation of outdoor lighting .  Except as exempt by
subsection (14)(d) new outdoor lighting fixtures installed after the effective date of this
subsection, are subject to the standards below.  No provision of this subsection is intended
to pre-empt the Lane County Sign Code or applicable state codes.

(i) All outdoor lighting fixtures subject to this sub section must be designed as a full
cut-off fixture or have a shielding method to direct light emissions down onto the
site and not shine direct illumination or glare onto abutting properties.

(ii) All lighting for roadways, roadway signs, intersections, and pedestrian ways must
be designed or have an opaque shielding method to direct light emissions
downward and below the hori zontal plane of the fixture in the permanently
installed position.

(iii) The use of laser source light or any similar high intensity light for outdoor
advertising or entertainment is prohibited.

(iv) The operation of searchlights for advertising or promotional purposes is
prohibited.

(v) Businesses and institutions with outdoor lighting, such as parking lot lights,
building lights, landscaping lights and other similar exterior lighting features, are
encouraged to extinguish such lights at the end of the working day, except for lights
necessary for personal and building safety.

(vi) Externally affixed neon lighting is prohibited except in the following manner: As
a trim element that surrounds windows, doors, or building edges; when located on
building facades that face street frontages or internal driveways within commercial
shopping complexes; such lighting must  not be located more than 15 feet from
finished grade and must  not be used to define a building roof -line; and, such
lighting must not include flashing, intermittent or rotating lights.  Notwithstanding
the provisions of this subsection, all neon lighting associated with signs must meet
the requirements of the Lane County Sign Code.

(d) Exemptions.  The following light fixtures or uses are exempt from complying with the
outdoor lighting standards of this ordinance.  These exemptions do not prevent the
County from adoption of later ordinances that may address the retrofitting or removal of
outdoor lighting fixtures.

(i) All outdoor light fixtures lawfully installed and operating prior to the effective
date of this ordinance, and not prohibited by this ordinance.  This exemption does
not apply if an existing light fixture is replaced.  The addition of supplementary
shielding and/or re-aiming of existing fixtures that shine direct illumination or
visible glare beyond the property line where the fixture is installed are
encouraged to help improve safety and quality of life in the community of
Goshen and the surrounding areas.

July 2013 16-627 LC 16.280

(ii) Commercial and industrial low wattage lighting used to highlight driveways and
landscaping, or applied to a building providing they are properly aimed and
shielded down to not shine visible glare, emit direct illumination, or cast a
shadow into the public right of way or onto abutting or nearby properties.

(iii) Up-lighting intended to highlight part of a building or landscaping provided that
the light distribution from the fixture is effectively contained by an overhanging
architectural element or landscaping element and do not shine beyond the
intended target including into the night sky.  Such containment elements may
include but are not limited to awnings, dense shrubs or year round dense
evergreen tree canopies which will contain or limit illumination of the sky.

(iv) Low wattage lights used for holiday decorations for no more than 60 days are
exempt from the requirements of this ordinance.

(v) Outdoor mass gatherings, as defined by ORS 433.735, that do not require a land
use decision, that require the use of temporary outdoor lighting fixtures are
exempt except that permanent installations at dedicated sites must conform to the
requirements of this ordinance.

(vi) U.S. flags displayed by top mounted lighting only.  The illumination of all flags
other than the U.S. flag must be extinguished at the end of public business hours
or by 10:00 PM whichever is later.

(vii) Temporary lighting for television or movie film productions, roadway or utility
construction or building construction not to exceed 60 days in any one vicinity.
Permanent installations at dedicated sites must conform to the requirements of
this ordinance.

(viii) All outdoor light fixtures used to highlight art features within a traffic circle or
round-about providing they are properly aimed and shielded to not shine visible
glare into the public right of way or onto abutting or nearby properties.

(e) Definitions.  The following definitions apply to terms in this subsection.

(i) End of business hours or End of business.  “End of business hours or end of
business” means the end of normal or posted business hours when a business or
institution is no longer open to serve customers or clients, and (b) the end of a
shift or normal work hours when the majority of employees are gone from the
business or institution.

(ii) Full Cut-off.  “Full Cut-off” means a light fixture designed and constructed so
that light is directed down and no light is projected above the horizontal plane.
[See figure 14-1 below]

(iii) Glare.  “Glare” means stray, unshielded light striking the eye that may result in
(a) nuisance or annoyance such as light shining into a window; (b) discomfort
causing squinting of the eyes; (c) disabling vision by reducing the ability of the
eyes to see into shadows; or (d) reduction of visual performance.

July 2013 16-628 LC 16.280
(iv) High intensity discharge lighting.  “High intensity discharge lamp lighting"
means high pressure sodium, mercury vapor, metal halide, low-pressure sodium,
induction, sulfur, xenon, and other similar lamps.

(v) Installed.  "Installed" means initial installation of outdoor lighting fixtures, poles,
electrical wiring, and related mounting equipment following the effective date of
this ordinance.  Projects with approved construction plans prior to effective date
of this ordinance are excluded from compliance with the ordinance in the initial
installation only.

(vi) Low Wattage lights.  “Low Wattage Lights” means 12-volt direct current lights
or individual lamps less than 0.25 watts each strung together within a translucent
or transparent plastic cover.

(vii) Replacement.  “Replacement” means the installation of a new lighting fixture in
place of an existing fixture, and/or the installation of a new lighting housing or
head to an existing pole, bracket or wall, tree, or other structure.  Replacement
does not mean the changing of light bulbs or lamps in a fixture for the same or
lower wattage bulbs.

(viii) Safety / security.  “Safety” means (a) sufficient lighting at building entrances,
exits, walkways and parking areas to allow customers and employees to see any
physical barriers and to be seen at all times as they access to vehicles and
sidewalks, and (b) the use of full cut-off light fixtures above doors, at fire service
stanchions, loading areas, and similar building access points.

(ix) Shielding.  "Shielding" means an externally applied device such as a shroud or
hood of metal, wood, opaque plastic or opaque painted glass so that light emitted
by the fixture is directed downward below the horizontal plane onto the site and
does not shine direct illumination or glare onto abutting or nearby property.

(x) Unshielded.  "Unshielded" means light fixtures lacking any means to restrict the
emitted light to below the horizontal plane or to shine or glare onto abutting or
nearby property.

(xi) Up-lighting.  “Up lighting” means a shielded light fixture usually installed on the
ground or permanently mounted to an architectural element, tree, or other
structure that has the light from the fixture directed in a contained distribution
pattern above the horizontal plane to illuminate an abutting or nearby building
element, shrub, tree or other landscaping.

Figure 14-1 Examples of full cut off light fixtures (typical)

July 2013 16-577 LC 16.280

16.280 Lane Code 16.280
June 16, 2020 16-576 LM16.259_265

(15) Signs

 (a) Signs may not extend over a public right-of-way or project beyond the property line.
(b) Signs may be illuminated but may not be flashing or capable of movement.
(c) Signs may not exceed 100 square feet of surface area on any one of two sides.
(d) Signs may not project above the height of the tallest structure on the property.
(e) Signs may only advertise uses and development that are conducted on the same premises
where the signs are located and that are permitted by LC 16.292(2) or (3) above.

(16) Utility Facilities

(a) Purpose and Applicability

(i) Purpose.  The purpose of this subsection, Utility Facilities is to provide planning
and design standards for public or private utilities and easements for transportation,
sewer, water, and storm drainage improvements.

(ii) When Standards Apply.  Unless otherwise provided, the standard specifications
for construction, reconstruction, or repair of utilities, and other private
improvements must comply with the standards of this sub section.  P ublic and
private facilities related to a particular devel opment must comply with the public
facility requirements established in this subsection.

(iii) Engineering Design Criteria, Standard Specifications and Details.  The
County’s specifications, standards, and details contained in Lane Manual 15.450
are hereby incorporated into this code by reference.

(iv) Conditions of Development Approval.  No development may occur unless
required public facilities are in place or guaranteed, in conformance with the
provisions of Lane Code.  On -site i mprovements required as  a condition of
development approval, when not voluntarily accepted by the applicant, must  be
roughly proportional to the impact of the development on public facilities.  Where
on-site improvements are required, the Approval Authority must include f indings
in the development approval indicat ing how the required improvements are
directly related and roughly proportional to the impact from the proposed
development.

(b) Roads

Development subject to the provisions of this section (16.280) of Lane Code must
comply with Lane Code Chapter 15, Roads, except as provided below.

(i) Traffic Impact Analysis Requirements.  The County may require a traffic
study prepared by a qualified professional to determine access, circulation, and
other transportation requirements in conformance with LC 15.697.

Exception:  Lane Code 15.697 does not apply to any development proposal that
if approved will result in an increase of less than 50 peak hour automobile trips.

16.280 Lane Code 16.280
June 16, 2020 16-577 LM16.259_265
However, all developments must at a minimum provide a trip generation or debit
letter to document how many trips are associated with the proposed use.

(c) Sanitary Sewer and Water Service Improvements.  The proposed use and
development must not result in public health hazards or adverse environmental impacts
that violate state or federal water quality regulations.

The proposed use and development must  not exceed the carrying capacity of the soil or
existing water supply resources.  To address this requirement, factual information must be
provided about any existing or proposed sewer or water systems for the site and the site's
ability to provide on-site sewage disposal and water supply if a community water or sewer
system is not available.  Approval of an on-site sewage disposal system from the property
approval authority must constitute adequate factual information to demonstrate compliance
with sewer component of this standard.

When a community water or sewer system is proposed to provide service to a use or
development, the following standards apply:

(i) Sewers and Water Mains Required.  Sanitary sewers and water mains must be
installed to serve each new development and to connect developments to existing
mains in accordance with the County’s Sanitary Sewer Master Plan, Water
System Master Plan, and the applicable construction specifications.  When streets
are required to be stubbed to the edge of the subdivision, sewer and water system
improvements must also be stubbed with the streets, except as may be waived by
the County Engineer.

(ii) Sewer and Water Plan Approval.  Development permits for sewer and water
improvements will not be issued until the County Engineer has approved all
sanitary sewer and water plans in conformance with County standards.

(iii) Over-Sizing.  The County may require as a condition of development approval
that sewer, water, and/or storm drainage systems serving new development be
sized to accommodate future development within the area as projected by the
applicable Water, Sewer, and/or Storm Drainage Master Plan, provided that the
County may grant the developer credit toward any required system development
charge for the same.

(iv) Inadequate Facilities.  Development permits may be restricted by the County
where a deficiency exists in the existing water or sewer system that cannot be
rectified by the development and which if not rectified will result in a threat to
public health or safety, surcharging of existing mains, or violations of state or
federal standards pertaining to operation of domestic water and sewerage
treatment systems.

(d) Stormwater Management Requirements

(i) General Provisions.  The County will issue a development permit only where
adequate provisions for stormwater and flood water runoff have been made in
conformance with the stormwater management requirements set forth in this
subsection 16.280(d).

16.280 Lane Code 16.280
June 16, 2020 16-578 LM16.259_265
Connections to drainage facilities within the County right -of-way must be
authorized through facility permits issued by the Director in accordance with ORS
374.305 through 374.340.

(ii) Definitions.  For the purposes of this Section and the Stormwater Management
Manual, the following definitions apply:

(aa) Base Flood.  The flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.  Also referred to as the "100-year flood."

(bb) Biofiltration.  Deliberate filtering of sediments and other pollutants from
stormwater runoff by directing flow through a vegetated area.

(cc) Channel Maintenance.  Periodic removal of debris, sediment,
vegetation, litter and other material within the bed or banks of a stream
or channel recognized as part of the city's stormwater drainage system,
and performed by the city or in accordance with county policy.

(dd) Channelize, Channelizing.  Human alteration of the bed or banks of a
natural stream or river to maintain or increase its conveyance or capacity
characteristics without maintaining its natural character, typically by
straightening its course, increasing its depth and removing obstructions
in the bed or on the banks.

(ee) Constructed Wetlands.  A facility that exhibits wetland characteristics
but was constructed for the express purpose to perform a utility need,
such as a sedimentation pond, and is not eligible for mitigation credit or
subject to the jurisdictional requirements of federal and state wetland
law.

(ff) Easement of Record.  A valid easement that is recorded and on file at
the Lane County Recorder’s office.

(gg) Enhancement.  To increase or improve natural values in one or more of
the following ways:

• Increasing the wildlife habitat value by increasing the supply and
diversity of natural food sources throughout the year, increasing
the diversity and duration of water features throughout the year
or increasing the diversity in size and structure of plants.
• Improving water quality by reducing the amount of pollutants
entering the water or removing pollutants already in the water.
• Improving the natural character by encouraging and allowing
natural vegetation to grow in natural patterns according to soil
and water conditions.
• Removing litter, refuse and unnatural fill.
• Improving the capacity of the area to contain, detain or filter
stormwater runoff.

(hh) Flood, or Flooding.  A general and temporary condition of partial or
16.280 Lane Code 16.280
June 16, 2020 16-579 LM16.259_265
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:

• The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
• The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters
from any source.

(ii) Flood control design storm.  A theoretical storm for evaluating the
capacity of the storm drainage system and designing improvements for
the required level of protection, in accordance with the Stormwater
Management Manual.

(jj) Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).  The official map on which the
Federal Insurance Administration has delineated both the areas of special
flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.

(kk) Flood Insurance Study.  The official report provided by the Federal
Insurance Administration that includes flood profiles, the Flood
Boundary-Floodway Map, and the water surface elevation of the base
flood.

(ll) Floodway.  The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land areas designated as a floodway by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.

(mm) Flow control facility.  Any structure or drainage device that is designed,
constructed, and maintained to collect, retain, infiltrate, or detain surface
water runoff during and after a storm event for the purpose of controlling
post-development water quantity leaving the development site.

(nn) Goal 5 Water Resource Site.  The resource site as identified in the Goal
5 Water Resources Conservation Plan.  For riparian corridor and upland
wildlife habitat sites, the Goal 5 Water Resource Site includes the stream
and riparian areas that may extend beyond applicable conservation
setbacks.  Wetland sites include only the wetland, itself.

(oo) Grassy Swales.  Shallow ditches lined with grass or other vegetation for
the purpose of filtering sediments and other pollutants from stormwater
runoff.

(pp) Impervious surface/area.  Any surface area that causes water to run off
the surface in greater quantities or at an increased rate of flow from
conditions pre-existing to development. Types of impervious surface
include, but are not limited to, rooftops, asphalt and concrete parking
lots, driveways, roads, sidewalks, and pedestrian plazas. Note: Slatted
decks are considered pervious. Gravel surfaces are considered pervious
unless they cover impervious surfaces or are compacted to a degree that
causes their runoff coefficient to exceed 0.8.

(qq) Natural Drainageways.  Natural rivers, streams, channels, creeks, or
16.280 Lane Code 16.280
June 16, 2020 16-580 LM16.259_265
other areas that naturally convey stormwater runoff or portions thereof
that have not been channelized, and which retain a predominantly natural
character.

(rr) Natural Functions and Values.  Characteristics of a site that contribute
to the healthy and effective functioning of natural processes on the site,
along with the contribution made by the site to the healthy and effective
functioning of the larger natural resource system of which the site is a
part; including but not limited to improvement of water quality,
provision of food, water and cover for wildlife, storage capacity for flood
waters, protection against erosion, sediment removal, fisheries habitat,
and groundwater recharge or discharge.

(ss) Natural Resource Area.  The area within the mapped boundaries of any
locally inventoried wetland, pond, stream, channel, river, lake or upland
wildlife habitat area.

(tt) Oil control facility.  Any structure or drainage device that is designed,
constructed, and maintained to remove oil and grease from storm runoff.

(uu) Open Waterway.  A natural or human-made swale, creek, stream, open
channel, ditch or other similar water feature, that has a defined and
identifiable channel with slopes, that is predominantly of earthen
material, and that has the specific function of conveying and/or storing
stormwater runoff.

(vv) Property suspected or known to contain contaminants in the soil or
groundwater.  Any real property where the presence of any hazardous
substance or petroleum product indicates an existing release, past release,
or threatened release of a hazardous substance or petroleum product into
the ground, ground water, or surface water of the property.

(ww) Protected Wetland, Protected Natural Resource.  A wetland or other
natural resource identified for protection in an adopted plan.

(xx) Stormwater Management Manual.  For purposes of this Section, the
Stormwater Management Manual means the City of Eugene Stormwater
Management Manual (April 2008 version), which has been adopted and
incorporated by reference, and made applicable to the area subject to this
Section 16.280.

(yy) Stormwater Management Facility.  Any structure or configuration of
the ground that is used or, by its location, becomes a place where
stormwater flows or is accumulated, including but not limited to, pipes,
sewers, curbs, gutters, manholes, catch basins, ponds, open drainage
ways, runoff control facilities, wetlands, and their accessories.

(zz) Water Features.  Permanent or intermittent bodies of water, including
streams, ponds, rivers, lakes, drainage channels, open waterways and
jurisdictional wetlands.
16.280 Lane Code 16.280
June 16, 2020 16-581 LM16.259_265

(aaa) Water Quality Design Storm.  A theoretical storm for estimating the
amount of stormwater runoff to be treated.  Facilities designed to store
and treat a volume of stormwater must be sized in accordance with the
Stormwater Management Manual.

(bbb) Wetland.  Any parcel or portion of a parcel which meets the state or
federal definition of wetlands that are under the jurisdiction of state or
federal laws.

(ccc) Wetland Boundary.  Any mapped wetland boundary produced by
methods consistent with state and federal law and policy and for which a
concurrence has been made in writing by the applicable state or federal
agencies.

(iii) Stormwater Management Manual.  In order to implement applicable
stormwater management requirements, Lane County has adopted and
incorporated by this reference the April 2008 version of the City of Eugene
Stormwater Management Manual as part of this Section 16.280 by Ordinance
No. 13-2.

The Lane County Land Management Division will maintain and make available to
the public copies of the Stormwater Management Manual.

(iv) Flood Control.

(aa) Purpose.  The purpose of Flood Control standards is to protect life and
property from flood and drainage hazards by maintaining the capacity of
the County’s stormwater conveyance system through the establishment
of destination regulations for stormwater runoff from development.

(bb) Applicability and Exemptions.  Destination standards apply to all
developments adding or redeveloping more than 1,000 square feet of
impervious surfaces unless the replacement of more than 1,000 square
feet of impervious surface is for purposes of maintenance or repair for
the continuance of the current function on the development site.

(cc) Standards.  Surface discharges from onsite facilities must be discharged
to an approved drainage facility.  On-site infiltration is the preferred
stormwater destination for all developments.  Stormwater drainage
facilities must be designed and constructed according to adopted plans
and policies, and in accordance with the stormwater destination
provisions and the facility design requirements set forth in the
Stormwater Management Manual.  Stormwater management must avoid
a net negative impact on nearby streams, wetlands, groundwater and
other water bodies.  All local, state, and federal permit requirements
related to implementation of stormwater management must be met by the
owner/operator prior to facility use.

(dd) Underground Injection Control Systems.  Stormwater runoff disposed
16.280 Lane Code 16.280
June 16, 2020 16-582 LM16.259_265
of in underground systems is also regulated through the federal
Underground Injection Control (UIC) program under Part C of the Safe
Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. § 300, Chapter 6A, Subchapter XII) and
Oregon Administrative Rule Chapter 340, Section 044.  To utilize
Underground Injection Controls for stormwater management the
owner/operator must obtain authorization from the Oregon Department
of Environmental Quality prior to facility use.

THIS SPACE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

16.280 Lane Code 16.280
June 16, 2020 16-583 LM16.259_265
(v) Stormwater Pollution Reduction.

(aa) Purpose.  The purpose of Stormwater Pollution Reduction standards is
to reduce the impacts of development on water quality by providing
standards for the capture and treatment of stormwater runoff from
development.

(bb) Applicability and Exemptions.  Water Quality standards apply to all
developments adding or redeveloping more than 1,000 square feet of
impervious surfaces unless the replacement of more than 1,000 square
feet of impervious surface is for purposes of maintenance or repair for
the continuance of the current function on the development site.

(cc) Standards.  The quality of the stormwater leaving the site after
development must be equal to or better than the quality of the stormwater
leaving the site before development, as much as is practicable based
upon the following:

(A) Applications must include pollution reduction facilities selected
from the Stormwater Management Manual as follows:

(i) For land use applications for undeveloped land, the
selected pollution reduction facilities must treat all the
stormwater runoff from the development site that will
result from the water quality design storm;

(ii) For land use applications that change or add development
to an already developed site, the selected pollution
reduction facilities must treat the stormwater runoff from
all added and replaced impervious surface that will result
from the water quality design storm;

(iii) For development permit applications, the selected
pollution reduction facilities must treat all stormwater
runoff from all new or replaced impervious surface, or an
equivalent on-site area, that will result from the water
quality design storm;

(B) All pollution reduction facilities must be sited, designed and
constructed according to the pollution reduction provisions and
the facility design requirements set forth in the  Stormwater
Management Manual.

(vi) Stormwater Flow Control.

(aa) Purpose. The purpose of Stormwater Flow Control standards is to
protect waterways from the erosive effects of increases in stormwater
runoff peak flow rates and volumes resulting from development.

(bb) Applicability and Exemptions.  Flow Control standards apply to all
16.280 Lane Code 16.280
June 16, 2020 16-584 LM16.259_265
developments adding or redeveloping more than 1,000 square feet of
impervious surfaces unless the replacement of more than 1,000 square
feet of impervious surface is for purposes of maintenance or repair for
the continuance of the current function on the development site.

(cc) Standards.  The quantity and flow rate of stormwater leaving the site
after development must be equal to or less than the quantity and flow of
stormwater leaving the site before development, as much as practicable,
based on the following criteria:

(A) Applications must demonstrate, using methodology in the
Stormwater Management Manual, that peak rates of flow
delivered to an existing open waterway will not increase during
storms larger than the water quality design storm and smaller than
the flood control design storm as a result of the development that
is the subject of the application;

(B) All facilities to control the rate of stormwater runoff must be sited,
designed and constructed according to the flow control provisions
and the facility design requirements set forth in the Stormwater
Management Manual.  Flow control facilities must be designed
using one of the methodologies outlined in the Stormw ater
Management Manual.

(vii) Stormwater Oil Control.

(aa) Purpose. The purpose of Stormwater Oil Control standards is to protect
the County’s stormwater system from oil and grease from stormwater
runoff of impervious surface areas on properties that produce high
concentrations of these pollutants.

(bb) Applicability.  Oil control standards apply to:

(A) All new commercial and industrial development with parking lots
that store wrecked or impounded vehicles; or

(B) Any development that would result in an expected daily traffic
count greater than one hundred vehicles per 1,000 square feet of
gross building area, based on the most recent version of The
Institute of Transportation Engineers’ Trip Generation Manual; or

(C) Any development that would result in 100 or m ore off-street
parking spaces.

(cc) Standards.  All oil control facilities must be sited, designed and
constructed according to the oil control provisions and the facility design
requirements set forth in the Stormwater Management Manual.

(viii) Stormwater Source Controls.

16.280 Lane Code 16.280
June 16, 2020 16-585 LM16.259_265
(aa) Purpose.  The purpose of Stormwater Source Control standards is to prevent
stormwater pollution by eliminating pathways that may introduce pollutants into
stormwater.

(bb) Applicability and Exemptions.  Except as exempted below and except when the
source control would duplicate source controls required by a state or federal permit
obtained by the applicant, source control standards apply to all land use
applications, development permits and tenant improvements that result in any of
the defined site uses or characteristics listed in below.

(A) Fuel dispensing facilities and surrounding traffic areas where vehicles,
equipment, or tanks are refueled on the premises.  A fuel dispensing
facility is the area where fuel is transferred from bulk storage tanks to
vehicles, equipment, and/or mobile containers.  Exempt from this
subsection are:
(i) Propane tanks.
(ii) Fuel dispensing areas generally used to service oversized
equipment, for example cranes, that cannot maneuver under a roof
or canopy.
(iii) Existing fueling areas where scope of work is limited to a new
canopy installation over an existing fuel pad that is not being
upgraded, an underground tank replacement for compliance with
state regulations, or the replacement of a fuel pump on an existing
fuel pad that is not being upgraded.

(B) Exterior storage of liquid materials, for example chemicals, food products,
waste oils, solvents, process wastewaters, or petroleum products in
aboveground containers, in quantities of 50 gallons or more, including
permanent and temporary storage areas.  Exempt from this subsection are
underground storage tanks or installations requiring a Water Pollution
Control Facility (WPCF) permit and containers with internal protections
(such as double-walled containers).

(C) All facilities that store solid waste.  A solid waste storage area is a place
where solid waste containers, including compactors, dumpsters, and
garbage cans, are collectively stored.  Solid waste storage areas include,
areas used to collect and st ore refuse or recyclable materials collection
areas.  Exempt from this subsection are solid waste storage areas for one
and two family dwelling and areas used for the temporary storage of wood
pallets or cardboard.

(D) Developments that stockpile or store high-risk or low-risk bulk materials
in outdoor containers, as the terms “high risk” and “low risk” are in the
Stormwater Management Manual.  Exempt from this subsection are:
(i) Materials which have no measurable solubility or mobility in
water and no hazardous, toxic or flammable properties.
(ii) Materials which exist in a gaseous form at ambient temperature.
(iii) Materials, except for pesticides and fertilizers, that are contained
in a manner that prevents contact with stormwater.

16.280 Lane Code 16.280
June 16, 2020 16-586 LM16.259_265
(E) Developments proposing the installation of new material transfer areas as
defined in the Stormwater Management Manual, or structural alterations
to existing material transfer areas, such as access ramp re-grading and
leveler installations.  Exempt from this subsection are areas used only for
mid-sized to small -sized passenger vehicles and restricted by lease
agreements or other regulatory requirements to storing, transporting or
using materials that are classified as domestic use, for example, primary
educational facilities (elementary, middle or high schools), buildings used
for temporary storage  and churches.

(F) All development with a designated equipment or vehicle washing or steam
cleaning area, including smaller activity areas such as wheel -washing
stations.  Exempt from this subsection are:

(i) Washing activity areas generally used to service oversized
equipment than cannot maneuver under a roof or canopy, for
example cranes and sail boats.
(ii) Evaporation unit installed as part of a wash recycling system are
exempt from the wastewater connection requirement.
(iii) One and two family dwelling sites.

Development that is intended for the storage of 10 or more fleet vehicles
must include a designated vehicle washing area.

(G) All development projects that disturb property suspected or known to
contain contaminants in the soil or groundwater.

(H) All development with new covered vehicle parking areas, or existing
parking structures that are being developed.  Exempt from this subsection
are single-level canopies, overhangs and carports.

(cc) Standards.  All source controls must be designed and constructed according to the
source control provisions set forth in the Stormwater Management Manual.

(dd) Enforcement.  Failure to construct, operate and maintain source controls when a
land use application, development permit or tenant improvement has resulted in a
defined site use or characteristic listed above is subject to enforcement in
accordance with Lane Code.

(ix) Dedication of Stormwater Easements.

(aa) Purpose.  The purpose of Dedication of Stormwater Easements is to ensure that
County maintained stormwater management facilities designed and constructed in
accordance with adopted policies and the Stormwater Management Manual can be
accessed by the County for routine and/or emergency maintenance to protect life
and property from flood and drainage hazards, ensure that water quality is
protected, and to ensure that waterways in the headwaters area are protected from
the erosive effects of runoff.

(bb) Applicability.  Stormwater easement standards apply to all land use applications
and development permits that result in the construction of a County maintained
16.280 Lane Code 16.280
June 16, 2020 16-587 LM16.259_265
Stormwater Management Facility.

(cc) Standards.  The applicant must dedicate public easements approved by the County
over County maintained stormwater management facilities provided the County
makes findings to demonstrate consistency with constitutional requirements.  The
conveyance of ownership or dedication of easements may be required in any of the
following circumstances:

(A) Except for areas on the County’s acknowledged Goal 5 inventory, where
the subject property in the proposed development is or will be
periodically subject to accumulations of surface water or is traversed by
any open drainage way, headwater, stream, creek, wetland, spring, or
pond, including those not maintained by the city which drain onto or
from city-owned property or into city maintained facilities.

(B) For areas on the County’s acknowledged Goal 5 inventory, where the
subject property in the proposed development is or will be periodically
subject to accumulations of surface water or is traversed by any water
course or channel.

(C) Where necessary to extend public drainage facilities and services to
adjoining undeveloped property.

(D) To provide necessary drainage from the public right-of-way.

(E) Where the County has accepted functional maintenance responsibility for
pollution reduction and/or flow control facilities.

(x) Stormwater Operation and Maintenance.

(aa) Purpose.  The purpose of Stormwater Operation and Maintenance standards is to
ensure that stormwater management facilities designed and constructed in
accordance with the Stormwater Management Manual are operated and maintained
in a manner that protects life and p roperty from flood and drainage hazards,
protects water quality, and protects the waterways from  the erosive effects of
runoff.

(bb) Applicability.  Operation and maintenance standards apply to all facilities
designed and constructed in accordance with the Stormwater Management
Manual.

(cc) Standards

(A) Unless the County accepts the responsibility to operate and maintain a
stormwater facility, all stormwater management facilities must be
privately operated and maintained.
(B) All stormwater facilities must be operated and maintained in accordance
with Lane Code and the Stormwater Management Manual.
16.280 Lane Code 16.280
June 16, 2020 16-588 LM16.259_265
(C) Applications proposing private operation and maintenance of all or part of
the stormwater facility must include an Operations and Maintenance Plan
in accordance with the forms adopted as a part of the Stormwater
Management Manual.
(D) A maintenance log is required.  The log must  provide a record of all site
maintenance related activities.  The log must include the time and dates of
facility inspections and specific maintenance activities, and must be
available to County inspection staff upon request.

(dd) Enforcement.  Failure to operate or maintain the Stormwater Management
Facility according to the Operations and Maintenance Plan may result in
enforcement action, including a civil penalty, as specified in Lane Code.
(e) Utilities

(i) Underground Utilities

(aa) Generally.  All new utility lines including, but not limited to, those
required for electric, communication, lighting, and cable television
services and related facilities must be placed underground, except for
surface mounted transformers, surface mounted connection boxes and
meter cabinets which may be placed above ground, temporary utility
service facilities during construction, and high capacity electric lines
operating at 50,000 volts or above.

(bb) Subdivisions.  The following additional standards apply to all new
subdivisions, in order to facilitate underground placement of utilities:

(A) The developer must  make all necessary arrangements with the
serving utility to provide the underground services.  Care must be
taken to ensure that all above ground equipment does not obstruct
vision clearance areas for vehicular traffic as required in Lan e
Code (LC) 15.095(3) and as defined in LC 15.010(40);

(B) The County reserves the right to approve the location of all
surface-mounted facilities;

C) All underground utilities, including sanitary sewers and storm
drains installed in streets by the devel oper, must be constructed
prior to the surfacing of the streets; and

(D) Stubs for service connections must  be long enough to avoid
disturbing the street improvements when service connections are
made.

(ii) Exception to Undergrounding Requirement.  The standard applies only to
proposed subdivisions.  An exception to the undergrounding requirement may be
granted due to physical constraints, such as steep topography, sensitive lands, or
existing development conditions.

(f) Easements

16.280 Lane Code 16.280
June 16, 2020 16-589 LM16.259_265
(i) Provision.  The developer or applicant must make arrangements with the
County, the applicable zone, and each utility franchise for the provision and
dedication of utility easements necessary to provide full services to the
development.  The County's standard width for public main line utility easements
is determined by the County Engineer.

(ii) Recordation.  As determined by the County Engineer, all easements for sewers,
stormwater management, water quality facilities, water mains, electric lines, or
other public utilities must be recorded with the final plat.  See subsection (6), Site
Design Review, and Lane Code Chapter 13, Land Divisions.

THIS SPACE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

16.280 Lane Code 16.280
June 16, 2020 16-590 LM16.259_265
(g) Construction Plan Approval and Assurances

(i) Plan Approval and Permit.  No public improvements, including sanitary
sewers, storm sewers, streets, sidewalks, curbs, lighting, parks, or other
requirements may be undertaken until the plans have been approved by the
County, permit fee paid, and permit issued. The permit fee is required to defray
the cost and expenses incurred by the County for construction and other services
in connection with the improvement.  The permit fee is set by the County.

(ii) Performance Guarantee.  The County may require the developer or subdivider
to provide bonding or other performance guarantees to ensure completion of
required public improvements.  See subsection (6), Site Design Review, and
Lane Code Chapter 13, Land Divisions.

(h) Installation

(i) Conformance Required.  Improvements installed by the developer either as a
requirement of these regulations or at his/her own option, must conform to the
requirements of this Chapter, approved construction plans, and to improvement
standards and specifications adopted by the County.

(ii) Commencement.  The County must be notified in advance in writing before any
work begins.

(iii) Resumption.  If work is discontinued for more than one month, the County must
be notified in writing before work is resumed.

(iv) County Inspection.  Improvements must be constructed under the inspection and
to the satisfaction of the County.  The County may require minor changes in
typical standards and specifications, and details if unusual conditions arising
during construction warrant such changes in the public interest.  Modifications to
the approved design requested by the developer may be subject to review as a
modification of approval and/or conditions of approval.  Any monuments that are
disturbed before all improvements are completed by the subdivider must be
replaced prior to final acceptance of the improvements.

(v) Engineer’s Certification and As-Built Plans.  A registered engineer must
provide written certification in a form required by the County that all
improvements, workmanship, and materials are in accord with current and
standard engineering and construction practices, conform to approved plans and
conditions of approval, and are of high grade, prior to County acceptance of the
public improvements, or any portion thereof, for operation and maintenance.  The
developer’s engineer must also provide two set(s) of “as-built” plans, in
conformance with the County Engineer’s specifications, for permanent filing
with the County.  (Revised by Ordinance No. 13-2, Effective 7.4.13; 20-05, 6.16.20)

16.280 Lane Code 16.280
June 16, 2020 16-591 LM16.259_265

PAGES 16-591 THROUGH 16-750
ARE RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION