Lane Code
CHAPTER 16 CONTENTS

January 2013 16-i
SAND, GRAVEL & ROCK PRODUCTS ZONE (SG-RCP)
16.217 Sand, Gravel & Rock Products Zone (SG-RCP).
SAND, GRAVEL & ROCK PRODUCTS-CONTROLLED PROCESSING ZONE (SG-CP-RCP)
16.218 Sand, Gravel & Rock Products-Controlled Processing Zone (SG-CP-RCP).

January 2013 16-251 LC16.217_218
SAND, GRAVEL & ROCK PRODUCTS ZONE (SG-RCP)
RURAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN

16.217 Sand, Gravel & Rock Products Zone (SG-RCP).
 (1) Purpose.  The intent of the Sand, Gravel and Rock Products Zone (SG-RCP) is to:
  (a) Recognize that sand and gravel deposits within the County are an unrenewable
natural resource and beneficial to the economy of the County and the welfare of its people.
  (b) Identify and zone under this zone major deposits of sand and gravel, rock and related
material resources.
  (c) Provide for the utilization of this resource in a manner compatible with other land
uses in the area.
  (d) Encourage the regular, systematic and uninterrupted extraction and processing of
such resources.
  (e) Establish procedures for assuring protection of public health and safety on and
adjacent to land used for extraction and processing.
  (f) Prevent irresponsible extraction of material resources, to the detriment of the public.
  (g) Provide standards to be observ ed during the extraction process with a view to
ultimate utilization of the site.
  (h) Carry out these purposes with the recognition of a need for said resources and the
right of each property owner to make a reasonable use of his or her land.
  (i) Implement the policies of the Lane County Rural Comprehensive Plan.
  (j) Be applied only to those sites which have been evaluated consistently with the
Statewide Planning Goal #5 Administrative Rule conflict resolution process.
 (2) Definitions.  Where confli cting, for the purposes of this section only, the following
definitions supersede definitions otherwise provided in this Code:
  Director.  The Director of the Department of Public Works of Lane County.
  Overburden. All materials lying on top of valuable sand and gravel deposits which must be
moved in order to extract those valuable sand and gravel deposits.
  Review Committee.  The Sand and Gravel Review Committee authorized to administrate
the provisions of this section.
 (3) Permitted Uses.  In the SG -RCP zone, the following uses are permitted subsequent to the
following restriction:  For any property designated in the Eugene -Springfield Metropolitan Plan as
significant in terms of OAR.660- 16.000/025 and designated as '1B', a Goal 5 ESEE consequences
analysis per the Goal #5 Administrative Rule must first be completed.  If the landowner and County do
not agree on the method to achieve the Goal, the matter shall be forwarded to the Hearings Official for
processing consistent with LC 16.100.
  (a) Sand and gravel operations which entail the extraction, stockpiling and processing of
sand, gravel, overburden and topsoil shall be permitted, subject to the requirements of the subsections of
this section, but quarrying, smelting, ore reduction and other similar uses shall be excluded.
  (b) The following uses shall be permitted, subject to the requirements of the subsections
of this section, when conducted in conjunction with a sand and gravel operation as defined in LC
16.217(3)(a) above, on the same parcel or contiguous parcels of land on which the operation is being
conducted.
   (i) Asphalt paving-mix plant.
   (ii) Cement concrete batching plant.
   (iii) Aggregate products fabrication and sale.
   (iv) Sand and gravel resource-related contractor's equipment storage yard.
   (v) Sand and gravel resource-related contractor maintenance and storage buildings.
   (vi) Offices and warehouses appropriate to the uses permitted in this zone.
   (vii) Retail or wholesale sales of products related to the use of sand, gravel and
related products.

January 2013 16-252 LC16.217_218
  (c) Other uses permitted:
   (i) Agriculture, grazing or timber raising.
   (ii) Dwellings for owners, operators or help required to carry out LC
16.217(3)(b)(i) above.
   (iii) Accessory buildings normally required in LC 16.217(3)(b)(i) above.
   (iv) Extraction of sand, gravel and overburden, any combination of which does not
exceed 1,000 cubic yards in any calendar year.
   (v) Electrical facilities providing only direct service to a use authorized in this
zone.
   (vi) Transportation facilities and uses as specified in LC 16.265(3)(a) through (q).
  (d) Signs to be used in connection with sand and gravel operations:
   (i) Identification signs (exterior) shall be limited to two per business
establishment, and shall be designed as part of the building.
 (4) Site Improvement Standards.
  (a) General.  Site improvement standards hereunder are minimum standards to be
observed during extraction processes to assure that the site shall be clean and orderly and left in a
condition conducive to appropriate uses after extraction has been completed.  Improvement of the site
shall be a continuing process of planning, so that the ultimate redevelopment will be assisted by the
extractive process.
  (b) Minimum Site Improvement Standards.  The following mini mum standards of site
improvements shall be met during the extraction process.
   (i) Slopes and Grading.
    (aa) Excavations made to any setback lines shall meet the following
requirements:
     (A) Excavations not made to water-producing depth.
      (i-i) All banks will be left with slopes no steeper than the
natural contours of the immediately surrounding area, except that steeper slopes will be permitted if the
slopes are designed to be stable by a soils engineer licensed in the State of Oregon.  If slopes are steeper
than one vertical to one and one -half horizontal, provisions will be made so that a person can find safe
egress from any point on the shoreline of the excavation.
      (ii-ii) The bottom of any excavation s hall be gradually sloped
and graded so that surface water shall drain into one low area of the excavation.  If normal natural
drainage is practicable, the excavated areas shall be graded to drain surface waters.
     (B) Excavations made to water -producing depth which are not
subject to periodic redepositing of extractive material by inundation of stream or river.
      (i-i) The minimum depth of excavation must be not less than
eight feet below low watermark measured in the year of excavation, provided that if subsurface conditions
shall prevent excavation to such depth the depth may be less, if an administrative variance is granted or
the operator has provided a reasonable alternative which will substantially prevent stagnation of water and
growth of water vegetation.
      (ii-ii) All banks shall be sloped at a ratio no steeper than one
vertical to two horizontal (1:2) to a water depth of three feet, measured from low watermark.
    (bb) The operator shall not be required to comply with the standards of LC
16.217(4)(b)(i)(aa) above in areas currently under excavation which are not adjacent to setback lines,
provided that such area shall remain bonded until the standards of LC 16.217(4)(b)(i)(aa) above are met.
   (ii) Drainage.  Upon completion of operations, the condition of the land shall allow
sufficient drainage to prevent water pockets or undue erosion.  Natural and storm water drainage shall be
maintained so as to prevent harmful effects on surrounding property.
   (iii) Topsoil.  Topsoil removed shall be retained on property in sufficient quantities
to restore all grade or backfilled areas and on bank slopes above high water level.  Such areas shall be
covered with four inches of topsoil of at least equal quality to that removed; provided that, if the  average

January 2013 16-253 LC16.217_218
depth of topsoil prior to excavation was less than four inches, then the depth required shall be such lesser
average.
   (iv) Cover and Planting.  Upon replacement of topsoil, the operator shall provide
ground cover of his or her own selection adequate to control erosion.
   (v) Setbacks for Excavation.  Excavation shall not be conducted closer than 150
feet to any property boundary, except as herein provided.
    (aa) The Director may grant an administrative variance to decrease the
setback upon s howing that the eventual utilization of the site is compatible with a smaller setback up to
the following minimums:
     (A) Fifty feet from the boundary of any nonresidential zone, or the
right-of-way of an existing street or road.
     (B) One hundred feet from the boundary of a residential zone.
    (bb) The Director may grant an administrative variance to waive the setback
from adjoining property in a Sand, Gravel and Rock Products Zone, if no flood hazard will result.
    (cc) The setback area may be excavated to reduce the elevation thereof to the
grade of an adjoining public street or road.
    (dd) Excavation may be conducted within the setback area under a plan
approved by the Director through an administrative variance whereby the excavated area wi ll be refilled
with other materials which will neither decompose nor pollute underground waters.
    (ee) When excavation is completed adjoining a setback, the setback area shall
be smoothed, all excavation debris removed, and all trees which are in an uns afe condition removed.
However, such setback areas may be used for permitted uses under LC 16.217(3)(b) and (c) above,
subject to other provisions of this Chapter.
   (vi) Cleanup and Removal of Structures.
    (aa) During operations, the site shall be ke pt free of debris.  All overburden
shall be stockpiled or disposed of and all stumps, brush or other debris resulting from cleaning or
excavating shall be burned or otherwise disposed of.
    (bb) Within three years after the termination of an operation as  defined in LC
16.217(3)(a) above, all buildings, structures or plants which were used incidental to the operation and
were abandoned with the termination of the operation shall be dismantled and removed.
   (vii) Site Improvements for Nonconforming Pre-existing Uses.
    (aa) To the extent to which operations upon property have been completed
when said property is included within the Sand, Gravel and Rock Product Zone, the provisions of the
zone shall not be applicable.
    (bb) If the operator shall resum e excavations on property which had been
excavated when it was included in the Sand, Gravel and Rock Products Zone, then:
     (A) If banks cannot be sloped to the ratios required because the same
are within minimum setback areas,  or if the excavation is within the minimum setback areas, the operator
shall either:
      (i-i) Obtain an administrative variance from the minimum
setback in order to accomplish such sloping; or
      (ii-ii) Erect a fence along such nonconforming banks according
to specifications ordered by the Director.
     (B) Grading shall not be required after securing an administrative
variance if such area has been covered by brush or vegetation which would make such work burdensome
and uneconomic.
     (C) Additional depth of excavation shall not be mandatory to
conform to minimum depth standards.
     (D) The operator shall not be required to change nonconforming
setback areas.

January 2013 16-254 LC16.217_218
 (5) Operation Standards.  All facilities shall be constructed, maintai ned and operated, and all
operations shall be conducted in the zone in accordance with the standards set forth in this section.
  (a) Setbacks.
   (i) All equipment for processing operations shall not be built, erected or located
closer than 50 feet to the  perimeter boundary line of the property under the ownership or control of the
operator or the right -of-way of an existing road, except when said boundary adjoins a residence or
residential (R) zone, in which case no equipment shall be located within 150 f eet of said residence or
zone.
   (ii) Stockpiling of sand and gravel and sedimentation ponds shall not be located
closer than 25 feet to the perimeter boundary line or the right-of-way of an existing road.
   (iii) If provisions of Chapter 11 of this Code  as existing or hereinafter amended
shall require greater setbacks than provided herein, then such Chapter shall apply.
   (iv) The Director may allow smaller setbacks after following administrative
variance procedure.
  (b) Frontage and Access.  Each tra ct of land used for uses permitted in LC 16.217(3)(a)
and (b) above shall have 60- foot frontage on a public road or easement of  access to a public road
connecting with the public road system of Lane County.
  (c) Screen Landscape.  Existing trees and natu ral vegetation along a public park or
public road, or adjoining a residential (R) zone, shall be preserved for a width of 25 feet or within the
minimum setback, whichever is less.
  (d) Signs.
   (i) Business and Directional Signs.  See LC 16.217(3)(d) above.
   (ii) SG.RCP Zone Identification.  The County, at its expense, shall have the right
to put signs on the boundaries of any active operation which read:
    THIS PROPERTY MAY BE USED FOR SAND AND GRAVEL
EXTRACTION PROCESSING.
  (e) Road Condition.  All  private access and service roads shall be maintained in a dust -
free condition during intensive operations.
  (f) Off Street Parking - Parking Areas.  All parking facilities for employees and
customers shall be located within the boundaries of the property under the control of the operator.
  (g) Safety Fencing.  During operations when any open excavation will have a depth of 10
feet or more, and will create a slope steeper than one vertical to two horizontal (1:2) for a period of more
than 120 days, and is located within 200 feet of residentially occupied structures or a public road, a fence
shall be erected at least 10 feet outside the edge of such excavation at least four feet in height, to control
access to such excavation.
  (h) Stream Operations.  Oper ations in or adjacent to streams shall conform to the
following standards:
   (i) The turbidity of the stream adjacent to the operations shall not be increased by
more than five Jackson Turbidity Units.
   (ii) There shall be no direct discharge of gravel -washing waters into an adjacent
stream
   (iii) Operators shall work behind dikes which are of sufficient height to control
turbidity during low water seasons.  Where the dike forms the permanent river bank according to a river
plan which may be adopted by  the Board, the berm of the dike shall be of sufficient width and height to
contain annual high water.
   (iv) Equipment shall not be operated in the flowing streams, except to construct or
maintain berms or to make channel improve ments according to a river plan that may be adopted by the
Board.
   (v) After a river plan is adopted, the river channel shall not be diverted from its
normal course unless a permanent river channel is developed.

January 2013 16-255 LC16.217_218
   (vi) The Director may waive the requirements of LC 16.217(5)(h)(iv) and (v) above
for limited periods of time.
 (6) Performance Bond.
  (a) Except during the 60- day period provided for by LC 16.217(9)(a)(i) below, no
excavation shall be permitted within this zone in areas which are not covered by a performance bon d in
the amount of $500 per acre, and any additional dollar amounts determined by the Director to be
necessary for side restoration, which has been submitted to the Director and accepted by the Board.  The
amount of acreage to be bonded shall be left to the choice of the operator, but no excavation shall be
permitted within this zone in areas which are not covered by a performance bond in the amount of $500
per acre, and any additional dollar amounts determined by the Director to be necessary for site restoration,
which has been submitted to the Director and accepted by the Board.  The amount of acreage to be
bonded shall be left to the choice of the operator, but no excavation shall be permitted in any area which
has not been bonded.
   (i) The performance bond shall be issued by a corporate surety licensed to issue
surety bonds in the State of Oregon, or shall be in another form approved by the Director.
   (ii) The bond shall guarantee the faithful performance of all applicable site
improvement standards specified in LC 16.217(4) above for all areas excavated after the land is zoned
hereunder.
  (b) The operator may at any time make application to the Board for release of any bond
as to specified acreage which either has not been excavated or has been excavated and restored to the
standards contained herein.  Within 30 days after the date of such application, the Board shall consider the
application and, if the Board shall determine that the site improvement standards have been performed on
specified acreage, then the bond shall be released as to such acreage.
  (c) If acreage excavated is not restored according to the applicable site improvement
standards, the County, or its designated representative, may enter upon such property, make the required
improvements and present the operator and the corporate surety with a statement of expenses.  The surety
bond shall guarantee payment to the County for its expenses incurred, not to exceed $500 per acre, and
any additional dollar amount determined by the Director to be necessary for site restoration.
 (7) Administration.
  (a) Sand and Gravel Review Committee.  A Sand and Gravel Review Committee,
hereinafter designated the Review Committee, is hereby established and authorized to determine if
operating plans or revised plans comply with the requirements of this Chapter and with a river plan which
may be adopted by the Board.
   (i) Membership. The Review Committee shall consist of the following members:
    (aa) The Planning Director, who shall act as Review Committee Secretary.
    (bb) The Public Works Director.
    (cc) The Parks and Recreation Director.
    (dd) The Director of Building and Sanitation Department (Chief Sanitarian)
    (ee) The County Hydrogeologist.
    (ff) The County Floodplain Specialist.
   (ii) Advisory Board.  The Review Committee may appoint an advisory board of at
least five members.  Meetings of the advisory board shall be called by the Review Committee for the
purpose of assisting in the development of a river plan, and in particular to make recommendations
regarding operations along rivers and streams.
     The advisory board shall include:
    (aa) A member of the Soil Conservation Service.
    (bb) A member from a local conservation group.
    (cc) A member of the general public.
    (dd) A member from the sand and gravel industry and an alternate, in case
this member's firm is being considered by the Review Committee.
    (ee) A member of a Lane County farm organization.

January 2013 16-256 LC16.217_218
    (ff) Any other appropriate person.
   (iii) Written Records.  The Review Committee and advisory board shall keep
written records of all their deliberations.
   (iv) Referrals.  Upon receiving the operating plan or revised plan, the Director shall
immediately forward, together with notification of s cheduled meeting time and place of the Review
Committee, eight copies to the clerk of the Oregon State Land Board, two copies to the US Corps of
Engineers or other appropriate hydrologic agency, and one copy to the State Water Resources Board.
One copy of the plan, or a summary thereof, shall also be referred to each member of the advisory board.
   (v) After obtaining the necessary permits of the Oregon State Land Board or the
US Corps of Engineers or other appropriate hydrologic agency, the Review Committee shall, within seven
days, approve the plans or require modification in the plans to conform with the requirements of this
Chapter and with a river design plan which may be adopted by the Board.
   (vi) The operator shall be allowed to proceed in accord ance with the approved or
modified plans.  The Director of Public Works shall be charged with the duty of determining if there has
been compliance with the plans through inspection of the property and examination of the aerial
photographs submitted.  When an operator fails to proceed in accordance with the plans, the operation
shall be treated as an unauthorized use, and the Director may proceed under the authority of LC 16.262 of
this Chapter.  The operator shall then be subject to the penalties of LC 16.2 63 of this Chapter, and the
continuation or the expansion of the operation may be enjoined to the extent permitted by law.
   (vii) Decisions by the Review Committee pursuant to LC 16.217(7)(a)(v) above
may be appealed in the same manner as provided for in LC 14.500 for appeals of decisions by the
Director.
  (b) Variances.  Variances to dimensional standards such as setbacks and slope ratios
within this zone are subject to approval by the Director pursuant to LC 14.100 and must conform to the
following criteria:
   (i) The variance is not in conflict with the general purpose and intent of the zone.
   (ii) There are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances applicable to the property
involved.
   (iii) The denial of the request would result in undue and un reasonable property loss
to the applicant.
   (iv) The variance will not be detrimental to the public welfare or convenience, nor
injurious to the property or improvements of other owners of other property.
 (8) Materials to be Filed .  The following materi als must be filed with the Director by any
person conducting the use specified in LC 16.217(3) above within a Sand, Gravel and Rock Products
Zone:
  (a) Vertical aerial photograph of all land included in the plan of operations required in
LC 16.217(8)(e) below enlarged to a scale no smaller than one inch to 200 feet, which is certified by the
photographer to have been photographed not more than one year prior to submission.
   Photographs taken prior to one year from the date of submission may be submitted, if
accompanied by a signed declaration of the owner that there have been no substantial changes in land
form.
  (b) A legal description of the property described above.
  (c) A general boundary map, in reproducible form, of the property under the applicant's
control, drawn on assessor's maps or the equivalent, or an overlay for the aerial photograph showing
boundaries of the property.
  (d) Identification of public roads providing direct access to the property.
  (e) A general plan of operation in transpar ent overlay form shall be filed with the
Director, containing the following information:
   (i) Areas of existing and proposed settling ponds and washing plant facilities.
   (ii) Areas of existing and proposed processing facilities and stockpiles.
   (iii) Areas of existing and proposed facilities for resource-related operations.

January 2013 16-257 LC16.217_218
   (iv) Areas proposed for excavation, showing adjacent setback areas.
   (v) A statement on the transparent overlay, or in text form, specifying the
approximate acreage for each of said areas and the average thickness of overburden and topsoil in the
areas proposed for excavation.
   (vi) A series of typical cross sections of excavated areas and areas proposed for
excavation which are related directly to the aerial photograph of the area, for the purpose of evaluating the
possible flood and erosion hazards of the proposed operations, and of determining compliance with
provisions of a river plan which may be adopted by the Board.
   (vii) Approximate locations of the areas specified  in LC 16.217(8)(e) (i) through
(iv) above, and of the typical cross sections, shall be identified on either the boundary map of the area of
the aerial photograph. Approximate acreage for each of the said areas shall be specified.
  (f) If an operation sh all have facilities or stockpiles which existed prior to enactment of
this zone for any specific area which do not conform to the setback or other standards set forth herein and
which are not required to conform, the operator or owner shall also submit spe cific information as to the
location of such nonconforming facilities or stockpiles with identifying maps showing actual locations
and distances from property lines.
 (9) Filing Procedures.
  (a) The materials required to be filed by LC 16.217(8) above shall be filed with the
Director:
   (i) Within 60 days after an area in which the sand and gravel operation is being
conducted is zoned as a Sand and Gravel Zone.
   (ii) Prior to the commencement of excavation of sand and gravel in an area zoned
as a Sand and Gravel Zone.
  (b) Whenever any person conducting the use specified in LC 16.217(3)(a) above plans
any operation or facility in conflict with or not covered by the plan of operation which was required to be
filed by LC 16.217(8)(e) above, the operator shall file with the Director, for evaluation, a revised plan of
operation and aerial  photograph meeting the requirements of LC 16.217(8)(a) and (d) above.
 (10) Uses Subject to Hearings Official Approval .  The following uses are permitted subject to
submittal of an application pursuant to LC 14.040, review of the application by the Hearings Official
pursuant to LC 14.300 and subject to compliance with this criteria and standards specified in this chapter
of Lane Code:
  (a) Facilities transmitting electrical current in any single cable or group of cables or lines
through the Sand and Gravel Zone.
 (11) Special Use Approval Criteria.  Uses specified under LC 16.217(10) above shall comply
with the following criteria:
  (a) Conformity with the Rural Comprehensive Plan for Lane County.
  (b) The location, size, design and operating characteristics of the proposed use:
   (i) Will be compatible with and will not adversely affect the livability or
appropriate development of abutting properties and the surrounding vicinity, and
   (ii) Will not be adversely affected by the development of abutting properties and
the surrounding vicinity. (Consideration may be given to harmony in scale, bulk, coverage and density; to
the availability of public facilities and utilities; to the harmful effect, if any, upon desirable neighborhood
character, to the generation of traffic and the capacity of surrounding streets and roads; and to any other
relevant impact of the use.)
   (iii) Will not be adversely affected by known natural hazards, such as floods, slides,
erosion.
   (iv) Will not create a hazardous natural condition such as erosion, landslide,
flooding. (Revised by Ordinance No. 7-87, Effective 6.17.87; 10-04, 6.4.04)

SAND, GRAVEL & ROCK PRODUCTS-CONTROLLED PROCESSING ZONE (SG-CP-RCP)
RURAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
16.218 Lane Code 16.218

January 2013 16-258 LC16.217_218

16.218 Sand, Gravel & Rock Products-Controlled Processing Zone (SG-CP-RCP).
 (1) Purpose.  The provisions of the Sand, Gravel &  Rock Products-Controlled Zone (SG -CP-
RCP) are intended to provide more restrictive control of processing activities than the Sand, Gravel &
Rock Products Zone (SG-RCP), for the purpose of encouraging the preservation and orderly extraction of
sand and gravel deposits and for the protection of surrounding properties by the exercise of greater control
over the location and operation of sand and gravel extraction processing activities.  It is further intended
by the establishment of the SG -CR-RCP Zone that the Comprehensive Plan for Lane County and any
pertinent special studies shall be used as a basis to determine where this zone would be more appropriate
than the SG-RCP Zone.
  The SG -CP-RCP zone shall only be applied to those sites which have been evaluated
consistently with the Statewide Planning Goal #5 Administrative Rule conflict resolution process.
 (2) Regulations.  The requirements of the SG.CP.RCP Zone shall be the same as provided in
the SG.RCP Zone (LC 16.217), except as expressly provided in this section.
  (a) Land Use Compatibility as Operation Standard.  The Sand and Gravel Review
Committee shall evaluate, in its consideration of operational plans as provided in LC 16.217(7), the
location for the erection or enlargement of all processing equipme nt and activities, including, but not
limited to, asphalt paving -mix and cement concrete batching plants, by the criteria set forth in LC
16.218(3) below.  In addition to these criteria, the Review Committee shall consider compliance with the
adopted Comprehensive Plan of Lane County and shall further consider special studies which have been
developed for the subject area.  Notwithstanding the provisions of 16.217(a)(v), the Committee shall
disapprove all or a part of any portion of any operations plan involving such processing equipment or
activities which, in the Committee's judgment, do not conform to the above -described criteria, plans or
studies.
  (b) Administration.
   (i) In addition to the same administrative procedures as pro vided in LC
16.217(7)(a)(i) through (iv), the following procedures shall apply for (1) processing equipment and
activities, including, but not limited to, asphalt paving -mix and cement concrete batching plants, and for
(2) operations plans which include a request to vary the mi nimum setback dimen sions provided in LC
16.217(5)(a) from an SG-CP-RCP Zone boundary.
    (aa) Review Committee Action. Within seven days after obtaining the
necessary recommendations of the Oregon State Lane Board or the US Corps of Engineers or other
appropriate hydrologic agency, the Review Committee shall (a) approve the plans or require modification
in the plans to conform with the requirements of this Chapter and with a river design plan which may be
adopted by the Board, or (b) disapprove the plans as authorized in LC 16.218(2)(a) above. The Review
Committee shall follow LC 14.100 when approving, modifying or denying plans. Decisions by the
Review Committee pursuant to LC 14.100 may be appealed in the same manner as provided for in LC
14.500 for appeals of decisions by the Director.
    (bb) Approved Plans.  The operator shall be allowed to proceed in accordance
with the plans as finally approved by the Sand and Gravel Review Committee, or Board of Commis -
sioners in the event of appeal.  The Director of Public Works shall be charged with the duty of
determining if there has been compliance with the plans through inspection of the property and
examination of the aerial photographs submitted.  When an operator fails to proceed in accordance with
the plans, the operation shall be treated as an unauthorized use, and the Director may proceed under the
authority of LC 16.262 of this Chapter or other applicable laws.  The operator shall then be subject to the
penalties of LC 16.263 of this Chapter or other app licable law, and the continuation or the expansion of
the operation may be enjoined to the extent permitted by law.  Variances to dimensional standards
provided in LC 16.217(5) shall be considered by the Review Committee as a part of the consideration of
operational plans and are subject to the same standards and criteria contained in LC 16.217(7)(b).
 (3) Operational Plan Approval Criteria .  Compliance to the following criteria is required as
provided in LC 16.218(2)(a) above:
16.218 Lane Code 16.218

January 2013 16-259 LC16.217_218
  (a) Conformity with the Rural Comprehensive Plan for Lane County.
  (b) The location, size, design and operating characteristics of the proposed use:
   (i) Will be compatible with and will not adversely affect the livability or
appropriate development of abutting properties and the surrounding vicinity., and
   (ii) Will not be adversely affected by the development of abutting properties and
the surrounding vicinity. (Consideration may be given to harmony in scale, bulk, coverage and density; to
the availability of public facilities and utilities; to the harmful effect, if any, upon desirable neighborhood
character, to the generation of traffic and the capacity of surrounding streets and roads; and to any other
relevant impact of the use.)
   (iii) Will not be adversely affected by known natural hazards, such as floods, slides,
erosion.
   (iv) Will not create a hazardous natural condition such as erosion, landslide,
flooding.
 (4) Permitted Uses.  In the SG -CP-RCP zone, the following uses are per mitted subject to the
following restriction:  For any property designated in the Eugene -Springfield Metropolitan Plan as
significant in terms of OAR 660 -16-000/025 and designated as '1B', a Goal #5 ESEE consequences
analysis per the Goal #5 Administrative Rule must first be completed.  If the landowner and County do
not agree on the method to achieve the Goal, the matter shall be forwarded to the Hearings Official for
processing consistent with LC 16.100. (Revised by Ordinance No. 7-87, Effective 6.17.87; 7-12, 12.28.12)

16.218 Lane Code 16.218

January 2013 16-260 LC16.217_218

THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

16.218 Lane Code 16.218

January 2013 16-261 LC16.217_218

PAGES 16-262 THROUGH 16-280
ARE RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION