PARK AND RECREATION ZONE (PR-RCP)
RURAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
16.215 Park and Recreation Zone (PR-RCP).
16.216 Quarry and Mine Operations Zone (QM-RCP).
PARK AND RECREATION ZONE (PR-RCP)
RURAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN

16.215 Park and Recreation Zone (PR-RCP).
 (1) Purpose.  The purpose of the Park and Recreation Zone (PR-RCP) is:
  (a) To establish zones within which a variety of recreational activities may be conducted
as outright permitted uses without interference from other nonrecreational uses.
  (b) To establish standards and criteria to permit and conditionally permit recreational
activities within areas for which a built upon or committed exception to a Statewide Planning Goal has been
taken, or within a designated nonresource area, or within resource areas for which an exception to a
Statewide Planning Goal has not been taken.
  (c) To provide protective measures for riparian vegetation along Class I streams
designated as significant in the Rural Area Comprehensive Plan.
  (d) To implement the policies of the Lane County Rural Area Comprehensive Plan.
 (2) Permitted Uses.  The following uses and activities are permitted in any area zoned PR-RCP
subject to the general provisions and exceptions specified by this Chapter of Lane Code.  Uses listed below
may be subject to Site Review procedures as specified in LC 16.257, and verification of whether or not this
is required must be made prior to development of a permitted use:
  (a) Forest operations or forest practices including, but not limited to, reforestation of forest
land, road construction and maintenance, harvesting of a forest tree species, application of chemicals and
disposal of slash.
  (b) Temporary onsite structures which are auxiliary to and used during the term of a
particular forest operation.
  (c) Physical alteration to the land auxiliary to forest practices including, but not limited to,
those made for purposes of exploration, mining, commercial gravel extraction and processing, landfills,
dams, reservoirs, road construction or recreational facilities.
  (d) Farm use.
  (e) Towers and fire stations for forest fire protection.
  (f) Water intake facilities, canals and distributions lines for farm irrigation and ponds.
  (g) Exploration for and production of geothermal, gas, oil and other associated
hydrocarbons, including the placement and operation of compressors, separators and other customary
production equipment for an individual well adjacent to the well head.
  (h) The following transportation facilities and uses:
   (i)  Climbing and passing lanes within the right of way existing as of July 1, 1987.
   (ii)  Reconstruction or modification as defined in LC 15.010 of public roads and
highways, including channelization as defined in LC 15.010, the placement of utility facilities overhead
and in the subsurface of public roads and highways along public right of way, but not including the addition
of travel lanes, where no removal or displacement of buildings would occur, or new parcels result.
   (iii)  Temporary public road and highway detours that will be abandoned and restored
to the condition or use in effect prior to construction of the detour at such time as no longer needed.
   (iv)  Minor betterment of existing public road and highway related facilities such as
maintenance yards, weigh stations and rest areas, within right of ways existing as of July 1, 1987, and
contiguous public-owned property utilized to support the operation and maintenance of public roads and
highways.
   (v) Operations, maintenance, and repair as defined in LC 15.010 of existing
transportation facilities, services, and improvements, including road, bicycle, pedestrian, port, airport  and
rail facilities, and major regional pipelines and terminals.
   (vi) Preservation as defined in LC 15.010, and rehabilitation activities and projects
as defined in LC 15.010 for existing transportation facilities, services, and improvements, including road,
bicycle, pedestrian, port, airport and rail facilities, and major regional pipelines and terminals.
   (vii) Dedication and acquisition of right-of-way, authorization of construction and the
construction of facilities and improvements, where the improvements are otherwise allowable and
consistent with clear and objective dimensional standards.
   (viii) Changes in the frequency of transit, rail and airport services.
 (3) Uses Subject to Director Approval.  The following uses are allowed subject to prior submittal
and approval of an application pursuant to Type II procedures of LC Chapter 14.  The uses in LC
16.215(3)(a)-(i) may be allowed subject to conformance with the applicable approval criteria of LC
16.215(5) below.  The uses in LC 16.215(3)(j) -(o) may be allowed provided the application contains
adequate evidence demonstrating the proposed use fits within the listed classification.
  (a) Private hunting and fishing operations without any lodging accommodations.
  (b) Caretaker residences for public parks and public fish hatcheries.
  (c) Parks.
  (d) Campgrounds for areas devoted to overnight temporary use for vacation, recreational
or emergency purposes, but not for residential purposes and not including intensively developed
recreational uses such as swimming pools, tennis courts, retail stores or gas stations.  A camping site may
be occupied by a tent, travel trailer or recreational vehicle.
  (e) Aids to navigation and aviation.
  (f) Water intake facilities, related treatment facilities, pumping stations and distribution
lines.
  (g)  The following transportation facilities and uses:
   (i) Construction of additional passage and travel lanes requiring the acquisition of
additional right-of-way but not resulting in the creation of new parcels.
   (ii) Reconstruction or modification as defined in LC 15.010 of public roads and
highways involving the removal or displacement of buildings but not resulting in the creation of new
parcels.
   (iii) Improvement of public roads and highway- related public facilities such as
maintenance yards, weigh stations and rest areas, where additional property or right-of-way is required but
not resulting in the creation of new parcels.
   (iv) Bikeways, footpaths, and recreation  trails not otherwise allowed as a
reconstruction or modification project or part of an existing road.
   (v) Park and ride lots.
   (vi) Railroad mainlines and branchlines.
   (vii) Pipelines.
   (viii) Navigation channels.
   (ix) Subject to LC 16.215(10)(h), realignment as defined in LC 15.010 not otherwise
allowed under LC 16.215(2) or LC 16.215(3).
   (x) Subject to LC 16.215(10)(h), replacement of an intersection with an interchange.
   (xi) Subject to LC 16.215(10)(h), continuous median turn lanes.
   (xii) Subject to LC 16.215(10)(h), New Roads as defined in LC 15.010 that are
County Roads functionally classified as Local Roads or Collectors, or are Public Roads or Local Access
Roads as defined in LC 15.010(35) in areas where the function of the road is to reduce local access to or
local traffic on a state highway. These roads shall be limited to two travel lanes. Private access and
intersections shall be limited to rural needs or to provide adequate emergency access.
   (xiii) Subject to LC 16.215(10)( h), transportation facilities, services and
improvements other than those listed in LC 16.215 that serve local travel needs. The travel capacity and
level of service of facilities and improvements serving local travel needs shall be limited to that necessary
to support rural land uses identified in the Rural Comprehensive Plan or to provide adequate emergency
access.
  (h) Private accommodations for fishing occupied on a temporary basis may be allowed
subject to compliance with LC 16.215(10)(a) or (b) below, LC 16.215(10)(c)-(h) below, and the following
requirements.
   (i) Accommodations are limited to no more than 15 guest rooms as that term is
defined in the Oregon Structural Specialty Code.
   (ii) Only minor incidental and accessory retail sales are permitted.
   (iii) Accommodations are occupied temporarily for the purpose of fishing during
fishing seasons authorized by the Oregon Fish and Wildlife Commission.
   (iv) Accommodations are located within 1/4 mile of fish-bearing Class I waters.
  (i) Forest management research and experimentation facilities as defined by ORS 526.215
or where accessory to forest operations.
  (j) Uses to conserve soil, air, and water quality and to provide for wildlife and fisheries
resources.
  (k) Additional local distribution lines within existing rights -of-way (e.g., electric
distribution transformers, meter cabinets, terminal boxes, pedestals), or which provide service hookups,
including water service hookups.
  (l) Temporary portable facility for the primary processing of forest products.
  (m) Exploration for mineral and aggregate resources as defined in ORS Chapter 517.
  (n) Uninhabitable structures accessory to fish and wildlife enhancement.
  (o) A youth camp that complies with LC 16.215(12) below. A "youth camp" is a facility
either owned or leased, and operated by a state or local government, or a nonprofit corporation as defined
under ORS 65.001, to provide an outdoor recreational and educational experience primarily for the benefit
of persons 21 years of age and younger. Youth camps do not include any manner of juvenile detention
center or juvenile detention facility. Changes to or expansions of youth camps established prior to June 14,
2000, shall be subject to the provisions of ORS 215.130.
 (4) Uses Subject to Hearings Official Approval.  The following uses may be allowed subject to
prior submittal and approval of an application pursuant to Type III procedures of LC Chapter 14 and
provided the requirements in LC 16.215(5) below are met:
  (a) Firearms training facility.
  (b) Private seasonal accommodations for fee hunting operations may be allowed subject
to LC 16.215(10)(a) or (b) below, LC 16.215(10)(c)-(h) below, and the following requirements:
   (i) Accommodations are limited to no more than 15 guest rooms as that term is
defined in the Oregon Structural Specialty Code; and
   (ii) Only minor incidental and accessory retail sales are permitted.
   (iii) Accommodations are occupied temporarily for the purpose of hunting during
game bird and big game hunting seasons authorized by the Oregon Fish and Wildlife Commission.
 (5) Criteria for Uses Subject to Approval by the Director or Hearings Official.  Uses authorized
by LC 16.215(3)(a)-(i) and (4) above may be allowed provided the following requirements are met:
  (a) The proposed use will not force a significant change in, or significantly increase the
cost of, accepted farming or forest practices on agriculture or forest lands.
  (b) The proposed use will not significantly increase fire hazard or significantly increase
fire suppression costs or significantly increase risks to fire suppression personnel.
  (c) For uses authorized above in LC 16.215(3)(c) and (d), a written statement recorded
with the deed or written contract with the County or its equivalent is obtained from the landowner which
recognizes the rights of adjacent and nearby landowners to conduct f orest operations consistent with the
Forest Practices Act and Rules.
  (d) For uses authorized above in LC 16.215(4), the proposed uses will not significantly
conflict with the liveability and appropriate uses on adjacent and nearby lands.
 (6) Permitted Uses Within An Exception Area.  The following uses and activities are permitted
whenever the subject property is included within an area for which a built upon or committed exception has
been taken to a Statewide Planning Goal and incorporated into the Lane County Rural Area Comprehensive
Plan and subject to Site Review procedures as may be required in LC 16.257:
  (a) Any of the uses permitted within the above LC 16.215(2) or LC 16.215(3).
  (b) Retail trade of food or new general merchandise conducted within a building not
exceeding 750 square feet in total floor area.
  (c) Golf courses with or without a country club.
  (d) Riding stables.
  (e) Bowling.
  (f) Gymnasium or athletic club.
  (g) Yachting clubs.
  (h) Motel, hotel, lodges and other forms of recreational lodging.  Any of the above lodging
uses may include a restaurant, retail trade of food or new general merchandise exceeding the standard set
in LC 16.215(4)(b) above.
  (i) Game rooms, miniature golf, go cart tracks.
  (j) Boat rentals or boat storage and incidental minor repairs and sale of gas.
  (k) Country clubhouse for a golf course which may include a restaurant, retail trade of
food or new general merchandise exceeding the standard set in LC 16.215(4)(b) above.
 (7) Uses Subject to Hearings Official Approval .  The following uses and activities are
conditionally permitted subject to prior submittal and approval of an application pursuant to Type III
procedures of LC Chapter 14, and subject to the compliance with the conditional use criteria specified in
LC 16.215(8) below:
  (a) Race track.
  (b) Amusement park, carnival, circus.
  (c) Stadium.
  (d) Fairgrounds and amusement park.
  (e) Recreational shooting.
  (f) Airport and flying field.
 (8) Exception Area Conditional Use Permit Criteria.  Uses conditionally permitted above in LC
16.215(7) shall be subject to compliance with the following criteria:
  (a) The subject property is included within an area for which an exception has been taken
to a Statewide Planning Goal and incorporated into the Lane County Rural Area Comprehensive Plan.
  (b) The proposed use will not adversely affect the livability, appropriate use, natural
resources or scenic character of abutting properties and the surrounding vicinity.  (Consideration may be
given to harmony in scale, bulk, coverage and density; to the availability of public facilities and utilities; to
the harmful effect, if any, upon desirable neighborhood character; to the generation of traffic and capacity
of surrounding streets; and to any other relevant impact to the use.)
  (c) The proposed use will not be adversely affected by natural hazards, such as floods,
slides, erosion.
  (d) The proposed use will not alter the stability of the overall land use pattern in the area
nor interfere with farm and forest practices and will be compatible with the retention of existing and
potential forest uses on the surrounding forest lands. The proposed use will have a water supply of sufficient
quantity and quality to meet reasonably foreseeable needs.
  (e) The proposed use will have a water supply of sufficient quantity and quality to meet
reasonably foreseeable needs.
 (9) Exception Area Property Development Standards .  All uses or activities permitted or
conditionally permitted by LC 16.215(6) and (7) above, except commercial forest practices regulated by
the Oregon Forest Practices Act, shall be subject to the following development standards:
  (a) Property Line Setbacks.  No structure other than a fence or sign shall be located closer
than:
   (i) 20 feet from the right-of-way of a State road, County road or a local access public
road specified in LC Chapter 15; and
   (ii) 10 feet from all other property lines except as provided below.
  (b) Riparian Setback Area.  Except for property located between the Eugene -Springfield
Metropolitan Area General Plan Boundary and the Eugene and Springfield Urban Growth Boundaries,
where setbacks are provided for in LC 16.253(9), the riparian setback area shall be the area between a line
100 feet above and parallel to the ordinary high water of a Class I stream designated for riparian vegetation
protection in the Rural Comprehensive Plan.  No structure other than a fence shall be located closer than
100 feet from the ordinary high water of a Class I stream designated for riparian vegetation protection by
the Comprehensive Plan.  A lternative standards to permit  a structure in the riparian setback area may be
allowed provided the requirements of LC 16.253(6) or LC 16.253(9), as applicable, are met.
  (c) Maintenance, Removal and Replacement of Indigenous Vegetation within the Riparian
Setback Area.  Maintenance, removal and replacement of indigenous vegetation within the riparian setback
area designated for riparian vegetation protection by the comprehens ive plan must comply with the
provisions of LC 16.253(5) or LC 16.253(9), as applicable.
  (d) Signs.
   (i) Signs shall not extend over a public right-of-way or project beyond the property
line.
   (ii) Signs shall not be illuminated or capable of movement.
   (iii) Signs shall be limited to 200 square feet in area.
 (10) Forest and Farm Area Siting Standards.  The following siting standards shall apply to all new
structures and dwellings and other uses as specified above in LC 16.215(3) and (4), except for uses regulated
under the Oregon Forest Practices Act.  These standards are designed to make such uses co mpatible with
forest operations and agriculture, to minimize wildfire hazards and risks and to conserve values found on
forest or farm lands.  The standards in LC 16.215(10)(a) -(b) below shall be weighed together with the
requirements in LC 16.215(10)(c) and (e) below to identify any sites for a residence.
  (a) Setbacks.  Residences and structures shall be sited as follows:
   (i) Near residences on other tracts, near existing roads, on the most level part of the
tract, on the least suitable portion of the tract for forest use and at least 30 feet from any ravine, ridge or
slope; and
   (ii) With minimal intrusion into forest areas undeveloped by nonforest uses; and
   (iii) Where possible, when considering LC 16.215(10)(a)(i) and (ii) above and the
dimensions and topography of the tract, at least 500 feet from the adjoining lines of property zoned F-1 and
100 feet from the adjoining lines of property zoned F-2 or EFU; and
   (iv) The riparian setback area shall be the area between a line 100 feet above and
parallel to the ordinary high water of a Class I stream designated for riparian vegetation protection in the
Rural Comprehensive plan.  No structure other than a fence shall be located closer than 100 feet from
ordinary high water of a Class I stream designated for riparian vegetation protection by the Rural
Comprehensive Plan.  Alternative standards to permit a structure in the riparian setback area may be allowed
provided the requirements of LC 16.253(6) are met; and
   (v) Not closer than:
    (aa) 20 feet from the right-of-way of a state road, County road or a local access
public road specified in LC Chapter 15; and
    (bb) 10 feet from all other property lines.
  (b) The amount of forest lands used to site access roads, service corridors and structures
shall be minimized.
  (c) Fire Safety Measures.  Residences, structures and roads shall comply with the
following fire safety measures:
   (i) Fuel Breaks.  Fuel breaks around residences shall be maintained as follows:
    (aa) Primary Safety Zone.  The primary safety zone is a fire break extending a
minimum of 30 feet in all directions around dwellings.  The goal within the primary safety zone is to exclude
fuels that will produce flame lengths in excess of one foot.  Vegetation within the primary safety zone could
include green lawns and low shrubs (less than 24 inches in height).  Trees shall be spaced with greater than
15 feet between t he crowns and pruned to remove dead and low (less than eight feet) branches.
Accumulated leaves, needles, and other dead vegetation shall be removed from beneath trees.
Nonflammable materials (i.e., rock) instead of flammable materials (i.e., bark mulch) shall be placed next
to the house.
     As slope increases, the primary safety zone shall increase away from the
house, parallel to the slope and down the slope, as shown in the table below:
Size of the Primary Safety Zone by Percent Slope
 Feet of Primary
Safety Zone
Feet of Additional
Safety Zone Down Slope % Slope
0 30 0
10 30 50
20 30 75
25 30 100
40 30 150
   Building shall be restricted to slopes of less than 40 percent.
    (bb) Secondary Fuel Break.  The secondary fuel break is a fuel break extending
a minimum of 100 feet in all directions around the primary safety zone.  The goal of the secondary fuel
break is to reduce fuels so that the overall intensity of any wildfire would be lessened and the likelihood of
crown fires and crow ning is reduced.  Vegetation within the secondary fuel break shall be pruned and
spaced so that fire will not spread between crowns of trees.  Small trees and brush growing underneath
larger trees shall be removed to prevent spread of fire up into the crow ns of the larger trees.  Dead fuels
shall be removed.
   (ii) Fire Suppression Water Supplies.  An adequate fire suppression system shall be
provided.  Unless otherwise authorized by the local fire official, the minimum acceptable system shall
include the following:
    (aa) A water supply such as a pond, stream, tank, well, sump or any
combination thereof, together with a delivery system capable of sustaining a volume of 20 gallons per
minute for not less than 20 minutes.  If a water supply is available and suitable for fire protection, such as
a swimming pool, pond, stream, or lake, then road access to within 15 feet of the water's edge shall be
provided for pumping units.  The road access shall accommodate the turnaround of fire-fighting equipment
during the fire season.  Pe rmanent signs shall be posted along the access route to indicate the location of
the emergency water source.
    (bb) Sufficient water outlets, together with serviceable hose not less than three-
quarter inch inside diameter and a nozzle to reach the dwelling and nearby improvements.
    (cc) The water supply, pump, hose and nozzle shall be maintained as a
connected, operating unit ready for immediate use during period of fire danger.
   (iii) Chimneys and Roofs.  Residences or structures with any chimneys shall have a
spark arrestor on the chimneys, and residences shall have a fire retardant roof.
  (d) Domestic Water Supplies.  Evidence shall be provided that the domestic water supply
is from a source authorized in accordance with the Department of Water Resources Oregon Administrative
Rules for the appropriation of ground water (OAR 690, Division 10) or surface water (OAR 690, Division
20) and not from a Class II stream as defined in the Forest Practices Rule (OAR 629 -24-101(3)).  If the
water supply is unavailable from public sources or sources located entirely on the property, then the
applicant shall provide evidence that a legal easement has been obtained permitting domestic water lines to
cross the properties of affected owners.
  (e) Fire Safety Design Standards for Roads and Driveways.  Except for private driveways,
roads or bridges accessing only com mercial forest uses, an applicant shall provide evidence and a clear
explanation which demonstrates why the route of access for fir e-fighting equipment, from the fire station
to the destination point, across public road, bridges, private roads or private access easements and driveways
will comply with the standards spec ified below in LC 16.215(10)(e).  Evi dence of compliance with the
standards specified in LC 16.215(10)(e) below should include objective information about the fire-fighting
equipment, the physical nature of the access route, the nature of any proposed improvements to the access
route, and it may also include a written verification of compliance from the agency providing fire protection,
or a written certification of compliance from an Oregon Registered Professional Engineer.  As used herein,
"road" means a way of access used for more than one use and accessory uses.  As used here in "driveway"
means a way of access used for one use and accessory uses.
   (i) Road and Driveway Surfaces.  Roads shall have unobstructed widths of  at least
20 feet including:  travel surfaces with widths of at least 16 feet constructed with gravel to a depth sufficient
to provide access for fire -fighting equipment and containing rock to a depth of at least six inches or with
paving having a crushed base equivalent to six inches of gravel, an unobstructed area two feet in width at
right angles with each side of the constructed surface, curve radii of at least 50 feet, and a vertical clearance
of at least 13 feet 6 inches.  Driveways shall have:  constructed widths of at least 12 feet with at least six
inches of gravel or with paving having a crushed base equivalent to six inches of gravel and shall have a
vertical clearance of 13 feet 6 inches.
   (ii) Cul-de-sacs.  Any dead-end road over 200 feet in length and not maintained by
Lane County shall be considered a cul-de-sac and shall meet these standards for cul-de-sacs.  Cul-de-sacs
shall have a right-of-way width with a radius of at least 45 feet and an improved surface with a width of at
least 36 feet.  Dead-end roads shall have cul-de-sacs spaced at intervals of not less than 500 feet.  Cul -de-
sacs on private roads shall be marked and signed by applicants as "NO PARKING," and such signs shall
be of metal or wood construction with minimum dimensions of 12 inches by 12 inches.  No cul-de-sac shall
be allowed to cross any slope which will allow chimney- effect draws unless the dangerous effects of the
chimney-effect draws have been mitigated by the location of the road and, where necessary, by the creation
of permanent fire breaks around the road.
   (iii) Bridges and Culverts.  Bridges and culverts shall be constructed to sustain a
minimum gross vehicle weight of 50,000 lbs. and to maintain a minimum 16- foot road width surface or a
minimum 12-foot driveway surface.
   (iv) Road and Driveway Grades.  Road and driveway grades shall not exceed 16
percent except for short distances when topographic conditions make lesser grades impractical.  An
applicant must submit objective evidence demonstrating that road and driveway grades  in excess of eight
percent are adequate for the fire -fighting equipment of the agency providing fire protection to access the
use, fire-fighting equipment and water supply.
   (v) Identification.  Roads shall be named and addressed in compliance with LC
15.305-15.335.
   (vi) Driveway Vehicle Passage Turnouts.  Driveways in excess of 200 feet shall
provide for a 20-foot passage space (turn out) at a maximum spacing of 400 feet, or wherever visibility is
limited these distances shall be reduced to allow for safe visual conduct.
   (vii) Modifications and Alternatives.  The standards in LC 16.215(10)(e)(i) -(vi)
above may be modified by the Approval Authority provided the applicant has submitted objective evidence
demonstrating that an alternative standard would insure adequate access for fire-fighting equipment from
its point of origination to its point of destination.  Examples of some possible alternatives to the standards
in the above LC 16.215(10)(e)(i)-(vi) are provided below:
    (aa) Vehicle passage turnouts constructed at appropriate intervals and
constructed to at least eight feet in width with six inches of gravel may be acceptable alternatives to the
road and driveway width standards mentioned above in LC 16.215(10)(e)(i).
    (bb) Hammer-head turn- a-rounds may be an acceptable alternative to the
standards for cul -de-sacs mentioned above in LC 16.215(10)(e)(ii).  Railway flat bed cars of sufficient
strength to maintain a minimum gross weight of 50,000 lbs. may be an acceptable alter native for short
bridges or private roads and driveways.  Road or driveway paving having a crushed base equivalent to six
inches of base gravel may be an acceptable alternative for allowing grades in excess of those required above
in LC 16.215(10)(e)(iv).
  (f) Maintenance, Removal and Replacement of Indigenous Vegetation within the Riparian
Setback Area.  Maintenance, removal and replacement of indigenous vegetation within the riparian setback
area along Class I streams designated for riparian vegetation prote ction by the Comprehensive Plan must
comply with the provisions of LC 16.253(5).
  (g) Signs.
   (i) Signs shall not extend over a public right-of-way or project beyond the property
line.
   (ii) Signs shall not be illuminated or capable of movement.
   (iii) Signs shall be limited to 200 square feet in area.
  (h) Transportation facilities and uses listed in LC 16.215(3)(g)(ix) through (xiii) shall
comply with the following:
   (i) Identify reasonable build design alternatives, such as alternative alignments, that
are safe and can be constructed at a reasonable cost, not considering raw land costs, with available
technology.  The jurisdiction need not consider alternatives that are inconsistent with applicable standards
or not approved by a registered professional engineer;
   (ii) Assess the effects of the identified alternatives on farm and forest practices,
considering impacts to farm and forest lands, structures and facilities, considering the effects of traffic on
the movement of farm and forest vehicles and equipment and consi dering the effects of access to parcels
created on farm and forest lands; and
   (iii) Select from the identified alternatives, the one, or combination of identified
alternatives that has the least impact on lands in the immediate vicinity devoted to farm or forest use.
 (11) Telecommunication Towers.  Notwithstanding the requirements in LC 16.215(2)-(3) above,
telecommunication facilities are allowed subject to compliance with the requirements of LC 16.264, with
OAR 660-33 and with applicable requirements elsewhere in LC Chapter 16 including but not necessarily
limited to: the riparian vegetation protection standards in LC 16.253; Floodplain Combining Zone (LC
16.244); Willamette Greenway Development Permits (LC 16.254); the Coastal Resource Management
Combining Zones (LC 16.234, 16.235, 16.236, 16.237, 16.238, 16.239, 16.240, 16.241, 16.242, or 16.243);
Federal or State of Oregon inventories and regulations applicable to delineated wetlands and waters of the
nation or state; the Commercial Airport Safety Combining Zone (L C 16.245) and the Airport Safety
Combining Zone (LC 16.246); and the Sensitive Bird Habitat protection Standards and Criteria in LC
16.005(4).
 (12)  Youth Camps. The purpose of LC 16.215(12) below is to provide for the establishment of a
youth camp that is generally self -contained and located on a parcel suitable to limit potential impacts on
nearby and adjacent land and to be compatible with the forest environme nt. A "youth camp" is a facility
either owned or leased, and operated by a state or local government, or a nonprofit corporation as defined
under ORS 65.001, to provide an outdoor recreational and educational experience primarily for the benefit
of persons 21 years of age and younger. Youth camps do not include any manner of juvenile detention
center or juvenile detention facility. Changes to or expansions of youth camps established prior to June 14,
2000, shall be subject to the provisions of ORS 215.130. An application for a youth camp shall comply with
these requirements:
  (a)  The number of overnight camp participants that may be accommodated shall be
determined by the Approval Authority based on the size, topography, geographic features and any other
characteristics of the proposed site for the youth camp. Except as provided b y LC 16.215(15)(b) below, a
youth camp shall not provide overnight accommodations for more than 350 youth camp participants,
including staff;
  (b)  The Approval Authority may allow up to eight (8) nights during the calendar year when
the number of overnight participants may exceed the total number of overnight participants allowed under
LC 16.215(12)(a) above;
  (c)  Overnight stays for adult programs primarily for individuals over 21 years of age, not
including staff, shall not exceed 10 percent of the total camper nights offered by the youth camp;
  (d)  A campground as described in ORS 215.213(2)(e) and OAR 660-006-0025(4)(e) shall
not be established in conjunction with a youth camp;
  (e)  A youth camp shall not be allowed in conjunction with an existing golf course;
  (f)  A youth camp shall not interfere with the exercise of legally established water rights
on adjacent properties;
  (g)  A youth camp shall be located on a lawful parcel that is:
(i) Suitable to provide a forested setting needed to ensure a primarily outdoor experience without depending
upon the use or natural characteristics of adjacent and nearby public and private land. This determination
shall be based on the size, topography, geographic features and any other characteristics of the proposed
site for the youth camp, as well as, the number of overnight participants and type and number of proposed
facilities. A youth camp shall be located on a parcel containing at least 40 acres;
   (ii)  Suitable to provide a protective buffer to separate the visual and audible aspects
of youth camp activities from other nearby and adjacent lands. The buffers shall consist of forest vegetation,
topographic or other natural features as well as structural setbacks from adjacent public and private lands,
roads, and riparian areas. The structural setback from roads and adjacent public and private property shall
be 250 feet unless the governing body, or its designate sets a different setback based upon the following
criteria that may be applied on a case-by-case basis:
    (aa)  The proposed setback will prevent conflicts with commercial resource
management practices;
    (bb)  The proposed setback will prevent a significant increase in safety hazards
associated with vehicular traffic; and
    (cc)  The proposed setback will provide an appropriate buffer from visual and
audible aspects of youth camp activities from other nearby and adjacent resource lands.
   (iii)  Suitable to provide for the establishment of sewage disposal facilities without
requiring a sewer system as defined in OAR 660- 011-0060(1)(f). Prior to granting final approval, the
Approval Authority shall verify that a proposed youth camp will not result in the need for a sewer system.
  (h)  A youth camp may provide for the following facilities:
   (i)  Recreational facilities limited to passive improvements, such as open areas
suitable for ball fields, volleyball courts, soccer fields, archery or shooting ranges, hiking and biking trails,
horseback riding or swimming that can be provided in conjunction with the site's natural environment.
Intensively developed facilities such as tennis courts, gymnasiums, and golf courses shall not be allowed.
One swimming pool may be allowed if no lake or other water feature suitable for aquatic recreation is
located on the subject property or immediately available for youth camp use;
   (ii)  Primary cooking and eating facilities shall be included in a single building.
Except in sleeping quarters, the governing body, or its designate, may allow secondary cooking and eating
facilities in one or more buildings designed to accommodate other youth camp activities. Food services
shall be limited to the operation of the youth camp and shall be provided only for youth camp participants.
The sale of individual meals may be offered only to family members or guardians of youth camp
participants;
   (iii)  Bathing and laundry facilities except that they shall not be provided in the same
building as sleeping quarters;
   (iv)  Up to three camp activity buildings, not including primary cooking and eating
facilities;
   (v)  Sleeping quarters including cabins, tents or other structures. Sleeping quarters
may include toilets, but, except for the caretaker's dwelling, shall not include kitchen facilities. Sleeping
quarters shall be provided only for youth camp participants and shall not be offered as overnight
accommodations for persons not participating in youth camp activities or as individual rentals;
   (vi)  Covered areas that are not fully enclosed;
   (vii)  Administrative, maintenance and storage buildings; permanent structure for
administrative services, first aid, equipment and supply storage, and for use as an infirmary if necessary or
requested by the applicant;
   (viii)  An infirmary may provide sleeping quarters for the medical care provider, (e.g.
Doctor, Registered Nurse, Emergency Medical Technician, etc.);
   (ix)  A caretaker's residence may be established in conjunction with a youth camp if
no other dwelling exists on the subject property.
  (i)  A proposed youth camp shall comply with the following fire safety requirements:
   (i)  The fire siting standards in LC 16.251(10)(c) and (e) above;
   (ii)  A fire safety protection plan shall be developed for each youth camp that
includes the following:
    (aa)  Fire prevention measures;
    (bb)  On site pre-suppression and suppression measures; and
    (cc)  The establishment and maintenance of fire safe area(s) in which camp
participants can gather in the event of a fire.
   (iii)  Except as determined under LC 16.215(1)(i)(iv) below, a youth camp's on- site
fire suppression capability shall at least include:
    (aa)  A 1,000-gallon mobile water supply that can access all areas of the camp;
    (bb)  A 30-gallon-per-minute water pump and an adequate amount of hose and
nozzles;
    (cc)  A sufficient number of fire-fighting hand tools; and
    (dd)  Trained personnel capable of operating all fire suppression equipment at
the camp during designated periods of fire danger.
   (iv)  An equivalent level of fire suppression facilities may be determined by the
Approval Authority. The equivalent capability shall be based on the Oregon Department of Forestry's
(ODF) Wildfire Hazard Zone rating system, the response time of the effective wi ldfire suppression
agencies, and consultation with ODF personnel if the camp is within an area protected by the ODF and not
served by a local structural fire protection provider;
   (v)  The provisions of LC 16.215(12)(i)(iv) above may be waived by the Approval
Authority if the youth camp is located in an area served by a structural fire protection provider and that
provider informs the governing body in writing that on-site fire suppression at the camp is not needed.
  (j) The Approval Authority shall require as a condition of approval of a youth camp, that the
land owner of the youth camp sign and record in the deed records for the county a document binding the
land owner, or operator of the youth camp if different fro m the owner, and the land owner's or operator's
successors in interest, prohibiting them from pursuing a claim for relief or cause of action alleging injury
from farming or forest practices for which no action or claim is allowed under ORS 30.936 or 30.93 7.
(Revised by Ordinance No. 7 -87, Effective 6.17.87; 12- 90, 10.11.90; 11- 91A, 8.30.91; 17- 91, 10.17.92; 10- 92, 11.12.92; 4-02,
4.10.02; 10-04, 6.4.04; 5-04, 7.1.04; 7-12, 12.28.12; 16-01, 2.25.16; 20-05, 6.16.20; 25-07; 5.5.2026)

QUARRY AND MINE OPERATIONS ZONE (QM-RCP)
RURAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN

16.216 Quarry and Mine Operations Zone (QM-RCP).
 (1) Purpose.  The purpose of the Quarry and Mine Operations Zone (QM-RCP) is to:
  (a) Recognize that minerals and materials within the County are an unrenewable resource,
and that extraction and processing are beneficial to the economy of the County and the welfare of its people.
  (b) Protect major deposits of minerals, rock and related material resources with appropriate
zoning.
  (c) Establish procedures for the protection of public health and safety on and adjacent to
land where quarry and mine blasting operations are occurring.
  (d) Establish County standards in the Lane Manual to be used in reviewing referrals from
State and Federal Agencies of Operation and Reclamation Plans, pollution control permits and similar
permits.
  (e) Provide for cooperation between private and governmental entities in carrying out the
purposes of this Chapter.
  (f) To implement the policies of the Lane County Rural Comprehensive Plan.
  (g) Establish procedures to insure compatibility of a Quarry and Mine Operation use with
the area in which it is to be located, establish permitted uses and property development standards.
 (2) Intent.  The Quarry and Mine Operations Zone shall be available for consideration and use
by the County for new or existing operations when requests are received as part of an areawide or legislative
rezoning, or a specific property or quasi-judicial rezoning.
  When property under consideration for QM zoning is in close proximity to existing and
planned uses potentially incompatible with QM uses, the application of the Quarry and Mine Operations
Zone may be limited to a specific portion of a property in order to encourage the compatibility and proper
management of land uses.
  The Quarry and Mine Operations Zone is intended to be applied only to those operations
which have been evaluated through the Goal #5 Administrative Rule conflict resolution process, which
must be applied at the time of Rural Comprehensive Plan designation and coincident rezoning action per
LC 16.216(2) above.  Other quarry and mining operations of short-term or intermittent duration should be
provided for pursuant to the special use provisions of the various zones.
 (3) Definitions.  For the purposes of this section only, the following words, terms and phrases
are defined and supersede definitions otherwise provided in this Code:
  Minerals.  Includes soil, coal, clay, stone, crushes hard rock quarry products, metallic ore and
any other solid material or substance excavated for commercial industrial or construction use from natural
deposits.  "Minerals" do not include loam, sand, gravel or other aggregate materials created and/or deposited
by water movement.
  Mining Refuse.  All waste materials, soil, rock, mineral, liquid, vegetation and other
materials resulting from or displaced by quarry and mining extraction operations within the operating
permit area, including all waste materials deposited in or upon lands within such operating permit area.
  Operations Plan.  A written proposal submitted to the State Department of Geology and
Mineral Industries under the requirements of ORS 517.790.
  Operator.  Any individual, public or private corporation, political subdivision, agency, board
or department of this State, any municipality, partnership, association, firm, trust, estate or any other legal
entity whatsoever that is engaged in quarry and extraction operations.
  Overburden.  The soil, rock and similar materials that lie above natural deposits or minerals.
  Owner.  The person possessing legal rights to the mineral deposit being mined.
  Quarry and Mine Extraction .  All or any part of the process of removing mineral deposits
exposed by any method, including open-pit mining operations, auger mining operations, shaft mining, the
construction of borrow pits, processing of extracted minerals and exploration activities.
  Reclamation.  The employment of procedures in a quarry and mining extraction operation
designed to minimize as much as practicable the impact such operations have on the environment, and to
provide for the rehabilitation of land affected by such operations.  Reclamat ion includes the rehabilitation
of plant cover, soil stabilization, water resource protection and other measure appropriate to the subsequent
beneficial use of such mined and reclaimed lands.
  Reclamation Plan.  A written proposal for the reclamation of the land area affected by a
quarry and mine extraction operation submitted to the State Department of Geology and Mineral Industries.
 (4) Permitted Buildings and Uses .  In the Quarry and Mine Operations District, the following
types of buildings and uses are permitted as hereafter specifically provided for by this section, subject to
the provisions of the Quarry and Mining Operations Reclamation Permit and additional C onditions and
exceptions set forth in this Chapter:
  (a) Extracting and storing of minerals, including equipment and materials necessary to
carry out these functions.
  (b) Plants for the processing of minerals from quarry and mine extraction operations.
  (c) Sale of products generated from the quarrying and mining operation.
  (d) Activities permitted or required as part of the reclamation process provided for in the
Reclamation Plan.
  (e) Structures and buildings used in conjunction with the extracting and storing of minerals
or related equipment as defined in LC 16.216(4)((a) above.
  (f) Forest uses.
  (g) Farm uses as defined in ORS 215.203(2).
  (h) Water impoundments with less than 100 acre feet storage capacity and in conjunction
with beneficial uses of water customarily associated with fire prevention, forest uses or farm uses.
  (i) Fish and wildlife habitat management and any necessary and accessory uses.
  (j) Maintenance and repair of a lawfully existing residence.
  (k) Lawfully-established uses necessary and accessory to those listed above.
  (l) Electrical facilities providing direct service to a use authorized in this zone.
  (m) On premise signs used in connection with quarry and mine operations.  Signs so
permitted shall be limited to two per operation, shall not exceed 200 square feet total surface area per sign,
shall not contain moving or flashing lights or be capable of movement.
  (n) Caretaker's residence.
  (o) Transportation facilities and uses as specified in LC 16.265(3)(a) through (q).
 (5) Site Review Required.  Uses permitted by LC 16.216(4)(a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) above shall
be subject to the provisions of LC 16.257 (Site Review).
 (6) Permits for Quarry and Mine Extraction.
  (a) General.  No quarry or mining extraction or related operations may be initiated on land
zoned as Quarry and Mine Operations Zone (QM) until a surface mining permit. has been issued by the
Oregon Department of Geology and Mineral Industries.
   (i) Each permit application, Operation and Reclamation Plan referred to the
Director shall be reviewed following the Operation Standards and Reclamation Standards set forth in Lane
Manual.
 (7) Blasting Notice and Records .  Operators using explosives for quarry and mine extraction
shall follow explosive regulations and use commonly acceptable engineering standards based on physical
conditions and atmospheric conditions of the site so as to prevent injury to persons and dam age to public
and private property.
  (a) Notice of Blasting.  When blasting is to be done within 500 feet of an occupied
building, the operator, or an authorized agent, shall notify all occupants that a blast is to be initiated.  Such
notice shall be given not more than six hours nor less than 30 minutes prior to detonation and shall include
the approximate time of the blast.
  (b) Blasting Records. Each operator shall maintain a record of each blast for at least two
years.  These records shall be available to the County, the State Department of Geology and Mineral
Industries and other governmental agencies with appropriate jurisdiction upon request.  Such records shall
show the following for each blast:
   (i) Name of quarry or mine.
   (ii) Date, time and location of blast.
   (iii) Description of type of explosives and accessories used.
   (iv) Time interval of delay in milliseconds.
   (v) Number of different delays.
   (vi) Number of holes per delay.
   (vii) Nominal explosive weight per hole.
   (viii) Total explosive weight per delay.
   (ix) Total weight of explosives per blast.
   (x) Blast hole diameter, depth, spacing and stemming height.
 (8) Property Development Standards.
  (a) Property Line Setbacks.  No structure other than a fence or sign shall be located closer
than:
   (i) 20 feet from the right-of-way of a State road, County road or a local access public
road specified in LC Chapter 15; and
   (ii) 10 feet from all other property lines except as provided below.
  (b) Riparian Setback Area.  Except for property located between the Eugene -Springfield
Metropolitan Area General Plan Boundary and the Eugene and Springfield Urban Growth Boundaries,
where setbacks are provided for in LC 16.253(9), the riparian setback area shall be the area between a line
100 feet above and parallel to the ordinary high water of a Class I stream designated for riparian vegetation
protection in the Rural Comprehensive Plan.  No structure other than a fence sh all be located closer than
100 feet from the ordinary high water of a Class I stream designated for riparian vegetation protection by
the Rural Comprehensive Plan.  Alternative standards to permit a structure in the riparian setback area may
be allowed provided the requirements of LC 16.253(6) or LC 16.253(9), as applicable, are met.
  (c) Maintenance, Removal and Replacement of Indigenous Vegetation within the Riparian
Setback Area.  Maintenance, removal and replacement of indigenous vegetation within the riparian setback
area designated for riparian vegetation protection by the comprehensi ve plan must comply with the
provisions of LC 16.253(5) or LC 16.253(9), as applicable. (Revised by Ordinance No. 7 -87, Effective 6.17.87; 10 -
92, 11.12.92; 10-04, 6.4.04; 5-04, 7.1.04; 20-05, 6.16.20; 25-07; 5.5.2026)

THIS SPACE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

PAGES 16-233 THROUGH 16-250
ARE RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION