BAYSHORE DUNE MANAGEMENT PLAN
 BACKGROUND REPORT

Prepared for
Lincoln County
225 West Olive Street
Newport, Oregon
By
Terra Firma Geologic Services
27766 Hunter Creek Road
Gold Beach, OR 97444
February 7, 2012

Preparation of this document was funded partly through contributions of homeowners at
Bayshore and partly through financial assistance provided by the Coastal Zone Management Act
of 1972, as amended, administered by the Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management,
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and the Ocean and Coastal Management
Program, Department of Land Conservation and Development.

LIMITATIONS
This document was prepared for the Lincoln County Planning Department, Newport, Oregon
following the DLCD document: Dune Management Planning; A Guide to Preparing a Dune
Management Plan as Provided for in Statewide Planning Goal 18 and methodologies used to
prepare other foredune management plan background reports.  The information contained in this
document consists of published and unpublished data which we were able to locate and which
was made available to us.  Important data was also gleaned from interviews with residents, utility
district managers, agency representatives and others with experience at Bayshore.  Most of the
fieldwork for this report was done on 5/9-12/2011.  Bayshore was visited on 1/26/2011, two
weeks after an inundation event, and on 1/18/2012 during an inundation event.  It is possible that
additional data exists that may allow alternative interpretations of dune dynamics and beach
processes at Bayshore.  However, regardless of what additional information becomes available it
is undeniable that homes and infrastructure are impacted by sand inundation multiple times a
year, and portions of the spit have an elevated level of risk to be eroded by ocean waves during
natural, infrequent, reoccurring climatic events.

The ocean front residences in the southern part of Bayshore are located within a foredune on a
sand spit adjacent to an uncontrolled outlet for Alsea River.  Because of that setting the beach
adjacent to many of the residences has an elevated risk to be eroded by ocean waves during large
wave erosion events.  The area has an abundance of sand available for transport and the location
of the homes within the foredune makes them conducive to accumulation of wind transported
sand during periods of accretion.  Preparation of this document does not imply that we condone
the location of the residences in the southern part of Bayshore.  The document was prepared to
enable the residents at Bayshore to proceed with implementation of a foredune management
plan, as allowed under Statewide Planning Goal 18.  No warranties, either expressed or implied
are provided.  This report is submitted with the limitation that damages related to ocean wave
erosion, tsunamis or even deposition of wind transported sand is borne by the property owners
and is an inherent risk of having property located in such a geologically active environment.

Expires 6/30/2012
Ron Sonnevil, CEG

Erin Minster GIT 2164
Staff Geologist

ii

TABLE OF CONTENTS

I N T R O D U C T I O N           1

SITE DESCRIPTION AND SETTING       1
 Relationship of Foredune to Planning area      2

PHYSICAL FACTORS AND PROCESSES       2
 W i n d            2
 Waves and Ocean Levels        3
 B a y  O u t l e t  M i g r a t i o n          5
 E l  N i n o           6
 Ocean Flooding         7
 T s u n a m i s           7

EROSION AND BEACH HISTORY        8
 Changes in Shoreline Location       10
 Changes in Beach Profiles        11

CURRENT BEACH TOPOGRAPHY       12
 Availability of Sand for Grading       12
 Changes in Sand Dune Elevations Since 2009     13

H U M A N  F A C T O R S           1 3
 Beachfront Protective Structures       13
 Establishment of Vegetation and Home Construction    14
 Trails Across Beach         14
 Vacant Lots          15
 Beach Access Areas         15
 Sand Inundation Impacts        15

C O N C L U S I O N S           1 6

A C K N O W L E D G E M E N T S          1 7

R E F E R E N C E S           1 7

iii

FIGURES

Figure 1.  Location map         21
Figure 2.  Overview showi ng setting of dune management planning area  22
Figures 3A-B.  Management units in planning area      23-24
Figure 4.  Geometric Foredune Erosion Model      25
Figure 5A-B.  Erosion hazard zone s in planning area     26-27
Figure 6.  Multivariate ENSO Index 1950-2011      28
Figure 7A-B.  FEMA flood hazard zones at Bayshore     29-30
Figure 8A-B.  Shoreline loca tions 1928-2011      31-32
Figure 9A-B  Beach Profile locations        33-34
Figure 10A-J.  Beach profile plots        35-44
Figure 11A-H. Contour maps of management units 1-8     45-52
Figure 12.  Location of traverse  with RTF-GPS       53
Figure 13.  Elevation differences be tween 2009 and 2011 along traverse   54

APPENDICES

Appendix 1A-F. Oblique aerial photographs (2011) of management units   55-60
Appendix 2. LIDAR description        61
Appendix 3. Profiles           62
Appendix 4. Shorelines         63

iv

INTRODUCTION
Statewide Planning Goal 18: Beaches and Dunes (OAR 660-015-0010(3)) establishes
requirements for foredune grading and management through a dune management plan (DLCD,
2010).   Those requirements include “consideration of factors affecting the stability of the
shoreline to be managed including sources of sand, ocean flooding, and patterns of accretion and
erosion and effects of beachfront protective structures and jetties.” This report addresses those
requirements and is intended to be used as a basis to prepare a dune management plan at
Bayshore on Alsea Spit in Lincoln County, Oregon.  Bayshore was “committed to development”
in the 1960’s and qualifies for foredune grading if other requirements of Goal 18 can be met.
This report is organized into several sections including a general physical description of the area
and its relationship to the littoral cell it is contained within, a discussion of physical factors
influencing the site and a discussion of human factors.

SITE DESCRIPTION AND SETTING
The subject area is located in the northern part of the southern half of the Newport littoral cell, a
27 mile long stretch of coastline that runs from Cape Perpetua to Yaquina Head (Figure 1).  The
dune management planning area (Figure 2) extends from the southerly tip of Alsea Spit
approximately 8,000 feet north to the northern edge of the Bayshore development, an
unincorporated area of Lincoln County.  The inland extent of the plan area is located at the
seaward edge of the foundations for the residences from the north edge of the plan area to beach
access # 5, then jogs east and follows the inland boundary of NW Oceania Drive and NW Alsea
Bay Drive to the south end of the plan area.  The planning area is divided into 8 management
units (Figures 3A&B) that are referred to extensively in this report.

The southern edge of the planning area is located at the mouth of the Alsea River, which has the
largest watershed (466 miles
2) within the Newport littoral cell.  No published literature was
found regarding the sediment budget of the Newport littoral cell.  Obvious major sand sources
within the littoral cell include the Alsea and Yaquina Rivers.  Smaller streams such as the
Yachats River, Beaver Creek, Theil Creek and others contribute sediment to the littoral cell.
Seacliffs are another source of sand within the Newport littoral cell.  Natural sand sinks include
Alsea Bay, Yaquina Bay and areas offshore.  Prior to development of Alsea Spit an obvious sand
sink consisted of the large dunes that began in the northern part of what was to become the
Bayshore development but since the area was developed in the 1960’s sand has not been
deposited in those dunes.  The Newport littoral cell is bounded to the north and south by
headlands composed of Tertiary age basalt.  The seacliffs consist of Pleistocene age terrace
sediments deposited over Tertiary age siltstone and sandstone.  Inland areas are underlain
predominately by Tertiary age siltstones and sandstones (Schlicker and others, 1973).

Relationship of Planning Area to the Foredune
The shape and position of the foredune varies significantly within the planning area.  Throughout
the entire planning area the foredune ranges from conditionally stable to active.  In the northern
part of the planning area (management units 1, 2, 3 and 4) the foredune is distinct and well
seaward of the homes.  A conditionally stable dune ridge that represents an older foredune exists
to the east of the active foredune beginning in the middle of management unit 1 and extends to
the clubhouse in management unit 4 where it is obscured by the clubhouse parking lot. This older
dune ridge appears to be the active foredune in the late 1970’s through the 1980’s.  In
management unit 5 the foredune ceases to be a distinct ridge that is seaward and separate from
the homes but becomes a feature that includes the homes. The homes in the northern part of
management unit 5 are located on the eastern part of the foredune and in the southern part they
are located within the crest of the foredune.  The homes and NW Oceania Drive are essentially
part of the foredune in management units 6 and 7.  The foredune ends at the south end of
management unit 7.  Management unit 8 is adjacent to the mouth of the bay and although it lacks
a foredune it is still subject to sand inundation.

Three main beach environments were identified including an open sand beach containing
driftwood and occasional scattered small clumps of European beach grass.  This area extends
from the surf zone to an elevation of about 14 feet NAVD88 and, in the summer contains
numerous small transverse dunes resulting from north winds.  The second area identified
includes an area of numerous scattered hummocks containing European beach grass.  If accretion
continues and the area is not subjected to another wave erosion event it appears that these
hummock dunes will develop into another foredune, at least in management units 4-2 where they
are best developed.  The foredune has a variable cover of European beach grass, ranging from
conditionally stable to active.  Extensive portions of the foredune in the southern part of the area
are bare sand due to grading or recent sand deposition.  The dune ridge that represents an older
foredune in management units 1-4 is vegetated in European beach grass with scattered shrubs,
shorepines, and spruce trees.  An oblique aerial photograph taken in May, 2011 is on the cover of
this report and Appendix 1 is a series of oblique aerial photographs taken at the same time which
show the individual management units.

PHYSICAL FACTORS AND PROCESSES
Wind
The wind climate of the Oregon coast is bimodal (Hunter and others,1983).  In the summer the
North Pacific High dominates the weather pattern resulting in dry conditions and north to
northwest winds of moderate velocities commonly reaching 20 to 30 miles per hour.  In the
winter the Aleutian Low dominates the atmospheric circulation resulting in frontal storms that
pass over the coast with associated heavy rains and strong (30 to 50+ miles per hour) south to
southwesterly winds.

Both southerly and northerly winds influence sand movement and the dunes at Bayshore but the
greatest changes and impacts are associated with the strong southerly winds in the winter.  It is
not uncommon in the southern part of the planning area for sand accumulations of several feet to
occur during individual storms.  Sand is deposited seaward of existing homes, against and on top
of homes, in yards and driveways between homes and NW Oceania and NW Alsea Bay Drives,
and on portions of NW Oceania Drive and NW Alsea Bay Drive.  Inundation occurs after a
prolong period of strong northwesterly winds during summer months but impacts are generally
not as severe as during winter storms with strong southerly or southwesterly winds.   It appears
that an important function of the northerly winds is to transport sand along the open beach where
it accumulates in the southern part of the spit and becomes accessible to the strong southerly
winds which are more onshore in the southern most part of the planning area.  Another source of
sand is the beach between Alsea Bay and Yachats.  Sand along that section of beach transported
by southerly winds and swells ultimately makes it into Alsea Bay.  At low tides the sand is
exposed to strong southerly winds and deposited on the beach at Alsea Spit.

The orientation of the shoreline at Bayshore is not the same throughout the planning area.  In
management unit 5 the shoreline straightens out and has a uniform north to northeast trend that
extends past the north edge of the planning area (Figure 2).  Between management units 5 and 8
the shoreline curves becoming oriented southeast and finally nearly east-west.  Where the beach
faces southwest to south the strong southerly storm winds have a significant onshore component
causing the sand to be deposited on and even inland of the structures.  Where the beach faces
west the sand blown off the spit is deposited on the outer part of the foredune and on the beach
seaward of the foredune.  North of management unit 4 the amount of sand deposited on the
foredune is much less than farther to the south.

Waves and Ocean Levels
The beach is regularly shaped by ocean waves.  Winter storm waves remove sand from the beach
to offshore bars and summer waves return that sand (Komar, 1998a).  Erosional changes
associated with ocean waves are controlled by wave conditions, including wave height and wave
period, and water level.

Wave data (wave heights and periods) have been measured in the North Pacific using wave
buoys and sensor arrays since the 1970’s.  Prior to the late 1990’s the 100-year extreme storm for
the Pacific Northwest coast was projected to have a deep water significant wave height of 33 feet
(Ruggiero and others, 1996).  That height was exceeded once during the 1997-98 winter, four
times during the 1998-99 winter and again in January, 2000.   Analyses of these additional data
for several wave buoys located offshore from the Pacific Northwest coast yield 100-year storm
wave heights that ranged from 46 to 55 feet (Allan and Komar, 2001).

Ocean water levels are controlled by the state of  the tide, storm surge a nd El Nino conditions.
Water levels along the Oregon coast are consistent ly higher during the winter months due to
storm surge, seasonal changes in ocean currents off the coast and water temperatures (Komar,
1997). The combination of high tides, higher ocean levels and high waves that occurs during the
winter months causes most of the erosion along the Oregon coast.

Water levels and wave parameters for various conditions are typically incorporated into a
geometric model (Figure 4) that calculates the erosional response of a beach with a specific
geometry to sets of variables that represent various scenarios that may impact a given area.  The
results of those calculations are used to delineate areas with different levels of beach erosion
hazard, including areas with high, moderate and low hazard with the scenario for the high hazard
having the greatest likelihood of occurring.  Witter and others (2007) calculated beach erosion
hazard areas for the Bayshore area using the foredune erosion model of Komar and others
(1999).  The wave and water level values used for different scenarios that were calculated are
listed in Table 1 and the resulting hazard areas are shown in Figures 5A&B.  The high hazard
scenario includes wave and water level conditions that approximate conditions which occurred in
1997-1999.  The moderate hazard scenario includes a larger wave event analogous to the
predicted “100-year event” combined with a sea level rise expected in a 100-year period.  The
low hazard scenario combines the moderate hazard scenario with predicted subsidence expected
to occur during a Cascadia subduction zone earthquake.  The beach geometry for the modeling
was obtained from LIDAR data collected in 1998.  Appendix 2 contains a brief explanation of
LIDAR.

Hazard
Zone
Scenario
Significant
Wave
Height
Peak
Spectral
Wave
Period
Mean
Higher
High Tide
Monthly
Mean
Water
Level
Storm
Surge
Sea
Level
Rise
Regional
Subsidence*
Change
in Water
Elevation†
 High 47.6 ft  17 s 7.5 ft  1.3 ft  3.3 ft  — — 12.1 ft
 moderate 52.5 ft  20 s 7.5 ft 1.3 ft 5.6 ft  1.3 ft — 15.7 ft
 Low 52.5 ft 20 s 7.5 ft 1.3 ft 5.6 ft 1.3 ft 3.3 ft 19.0 ft
*Due to a Cascadia subduction zone earthquake.
†Relative to NAVD88 datum.

Table 1. Parameters used to model maximum potential erosion distance on dune-backed
shorelines in southern Lincoln County, Oregon. Source: Witter and others (2007).

Witter and others (2007) show that, in management units 1-4 at Bayshore, only the northernmost
homes are in the high and moderate hazard areas and that only a few homes are within the low
hazard area.  However, most of the homes in management units 5-8 are located in the high and
moderate hazard areas.  It is noteworthy that erosion has historically threatened homes in those
areas leading to installation of rip rap shore protection structures.  Importantly, the beach erosion
model does not consider the presence of a shoreline protective structure such as rip rap.  The

beach erosion hazard areas were defined using beach geometry obtained from LIDAR data
collected in 1998 after the beach had adjusted to a major El Nino event.  Much of the beach has
accreted since 1998 and the same modeling using current beach geometry is expected to result in
some seaward shift of the hazard zone boundaries where accretion has been significant.

However, when the beach erodes it will resume a profile configuration and elevation much more
similar to the 1998 profile than the accreted profile that currently exists (Allan and Komar,
2005).  Because of that the 1998 geometry should be used for determining hazard zone locations
and, in our opinion, the hazard zones determined by Witter and others (2007) remain valid.

The amount of foredune retreat predicted by the geometric model is based on the assumption that
the beach junction angle will retreat inland along the slope of the profile until it reaches the total
water level of the design storm (Location B or C on Figure 4).  This assumption has implications
for the effectiveness of enlarging a foredune to protect inland properties from beach erosion.
According to the model the beach will ultimately erode to the predicted location regardless of
how much foredune exists.  Thus, one can argue that for conditions associated with a predicted
50-100 year event, an enlarged foredune is not expected to provide long term protection to
properties from erosion if a given beach completely erodes to the geometry predicted by the
model.

A problem with applying the model for conditions associated with a multi-decade design event is
that the assumed extreme water levels and storm wave conditions are not sufficiently sustained
for a beach to reach the maximum eroded state during a single storm event.  Thus, the modeled
changes are expected to require a series of major storms and elevated water levels that repeat
themselves throughout a season or even over multiple seasons.  The existence of a wider
foredune can help to retard the erosion rate and provide some additional level of protection to
properties by absorbing wave energy and providing additional sand to the beach as the dune
erodes.

Bay Outlet Migration
The outlet of Alsea Bay is not controlled by jetties and migration of the Alsea Bay outlet is a
process that has caused significant change to the beach at Alsea Spit.  Under normal conditions
the outlet for Alsea Bay is located adjacent to the bedrock point on the south side of the bay.
During El Nino conditions there is a stronger northward movement of sand along beaches in the
Pacific Northwest (Komar, 1998b).  Sand movement during the 1982-83 El Nino was sufficient
to create a large offshore sand bar on the south side of Alsea Bay that migrated north.  This
diverted the outlet of the bay to the north which, in turn, eroded the offshore beach in front of the
southern part of the spit.  Erosion of the offshore bars exposed the beach to direct wave attack
(Komar, 1997).  These conditions resulted in erosion of the beach and dunes in front of the
existing homes causing the loss of one home and threatening others.  The outlet channel

remained deflected but migrated south, exposing the beach to wave attack during that process.
In fall of 1985 outlet flow from Alsea Bay eroded the sand at the tip of the spit threatening the
homes near the end of the spit.  This process will repeat itself and when it does the beach is
expected to erode in a similar fashion, removing the accumulated sand and exposing the rip rap
that was installed earlier.

El Nino
El Nino is a periodic atmospheric – oceanographic event that is initiated elsewhere in the Pacific
Ocean but can affect the entire west coast of the United States and lead to heightened coastal
erosion on the Oregon coastline.  El Nino is caused by a breakdown in the equatorial trade winds
of the central and western Pacific Ocean (Wyrtki, 1975).  Normally the strong equatorial trade
winds cause the sea level to be elevated in the western Pacific Ocean.  However, when the trade
winds stop blowing the elevated warm waters of the western Pacific surge back toward North
and South America.  Due to the rotation of the earth, currents are created that flow northerly and
southerly away from the equator along the coasts of North and South America. This bulge of
warm water has been detected on tide gages along the coast of Oregon. Tide gage measurements
at Newport, Oregon indicate that during the El Nino event of 1982-83 the ocean surface was
elevated 14 inches above the average winter sea level for several months (Komar, 1997).

El Nino is a major disturbance of the meteorological and oceanographic conditions throughout
the Pacific Ocean causing dislocation of the jet stream to the south which causes winter storms to
cross the coast further to the south in California rather than over Oregon and Washington.  The
passage of winter storms to the south of the normal track causes high winter waves to approach
the Oregon coast from the southwest rather than from the west or northwest. The occurrence of
the high winter storm waves from the southwest coincident with the bulge of high water created
by the El Nino coastal currents results in a northward displacement of sand along Oregon’s
beaches, resulting in more beach erosion at the southern part of a littoral cell than in the northern
part.  Northward displacement of sand along Oregon’s beaches during an El Nino can also result
in northward migration of stream and bay outlets.

El Nino is a periodic phenomenon that has repeated itself many times.  The Multivariate ENSO
Index (MEI) is commonly used to measure the strength of El Nino and La Nina events (Wolter
and Timlin 1993, 1998).  Figure 6 shows a plot of the MEI from 1950 to June, 2011 (Wolter
2011).  The two events that resulted in significant erosion at Alsea Spit were the strongest that
have been measured since 1950, based on the MEI.  This data suggests that there may be a MEI
threshold for major El Nino related impacts to occur at Bayshore.  The frequency of strong El
Nino events has increased in the last few decades but recent research indicates that this
occurrence is not anomalous when records are extended into the 1800’s (Wolter and Timlin,
2011).  Future strong El Nino events will occur and when they do the risk for associated erosion
events at Bayshore will be elevated.

Ocean Flooding
The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has calculated elevations for flooding
related to ocean waves and water levels for events with various frequencies.  These data are
summarized in a county wide Flood Insurance Study (FIS) and shown in greater detail on Flood
Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) in a series of panels (FEMA, 2009 A-C).  Areas interpreted to be at
risk of being flooded by events with 1 percent and 0.2 percent annual chances of occurring (i.e.
100-year and 500-year flood events, respectively) are shown on the FIRM.  Coastal beach areas
have a special flood hazard area related to calculated ocean wave runup designated as the
velocity zone that has a specific base flood elevation (BFE) assigned to it.  Within the planning
area the FEMA designated velocity zone elevation ranges between 24 and 34 feet (NAVD 88).
Areas interpreted to be at risk of being impacted by shallow flooding by water with average
depths of 1 to 3 feet are designated as being within the AO zone.  Hydraulic analyses give an
average depth of one foot to the AO zone within the planning area.  The AE zone is used where
the predicted flooding is just related to the water level in the bay.  Figures 7a and 7b show the
FEMA designated VE, AO and AE zones within the management area.  Statewide Planning Goal
18 requires that foredunes be graded no lower than 4 feet above the FEMA 100-year BFE
resulting in minimum graded dune heights for the VE zone between 28 and 38 feet (NAVD 88).
FIRM maps in portions of coastal Oregon have recently been updated and Lincoln County is
scheduled to be updated in 2014 (FEMA, 2011).  Changes made to the BFE during the update
will affect the minimum heights that dunes may be lowered to.

Tsunamis
Tsunamis periodically occur and represent a process that can cause change to the beach.
Tsunamis with both distant and local sources are expected to impact the Oregon coast.  Tsunamis
with distant sources such as Alaska and Japan have a large range in sizes and subsequent
inundation amounts.  The 1964 tsunami generated from the great Alaska earthquake is the largest
distant tsunami to historically impact this area.  No published documentation was found
regarding the amount of runup and impacts that occurred at Bayshore from that tsunami.  An
unverified hearsay account indicates that the 1964 tsunami washed over the foredune at
Bayshore.  Large distant tsunamis are capable of eroding the beach at Bayshore.  The amount of
erosion that occurs during a distant tsunami will depend on its source and when it occurs, but it is
not likely to exceed the amount modeled for the high hazard scenario, particularly if a tsunami
occurs when the beach is in an accreted state.

A local tsunami generated during a large Cascadia Subduction Zone (CSZ) earthquake is
predicted to impact all of the dune management area.  Modeling indicates that the maximum
CSZ tsunami will inundate all of Alsea Spit including at least the southern half of the lower lying
portions of the Bayshore Development (Priest, 1995).  Large local tsunamis generated by a

continuous rupture on the CSZ (from California through Washington) are interpreted to have a
recurrence interval of about 500 years with the last event occurring in 1700.  Recent research
indicates that smaller tsunamis generated by CSZ events with shorter rupture lengths in southern
Oregon and northern California are more frequent and have a recurrence interval closer to 250
years (Priest and others, 2009).  Runup from a smaller CSZ tsunami in the Bayshore area has not
been modeled.

Tsunami inundation modeling for distant and local tsunamis is in the process of being revised for
the entire Oregon Coast.  Where the new modeling has been done most of the inundation areas
are significantly larger than earlier modeling indicated and this trend is likely to apply to the
Bayshore area (Rob Witter, personal communication 2011).  A local tsunami resulting from a
large CSZ earthquake is likely to overwhelm much of the Bayshore development and cause
extensive damage to the beach and dwellings within the dune management area.

A robust foredune can help provide protection from most distant tsunamis, similar to how it
could provide protection during a large storm.  However, an extremely large distant tsunami or
even a moderate local tsunami appears to have the potential to erode the beach at Bayshore.  A
large local tsunami is expected to overwhelm the area resulting in major damage to properties
and residences at Bayshore.

EROSION AND BEACH HISTORY
Stereo pairs of aerial photographs taken in 1939, 1967, 1972, 1985, 1986 and 1987 were studied
with a stereoscope for this project to document changes.  A single aerial photograph taken in
1952 was also studied as were digital ortho-photographs or ortho-images for the years 1977,
1994, 2000, 2005, 2007 and 2009.  This section describes what is visible on the aerial
photographs and what is available in the literature.

Aerial photographs taken in 1939 show much of Alsea Spit as being a low lying expanse of bare
sand.  There are scattered, isolated patches of vegetation consisting of either low trees or brush in
the southern part of the spit but the majority of the spit consists of bare sand.  In 1939 the
southern part of the spit contained a broad, relatively low lying foredune that narrows to the
north where it is bounded to the west by a distinct erosion scarp.  Large dune ridges ramp up
onto the forested slope to the north of the spit and it is obvious that those dunes were formed by
wind from the south and southwest.   Those dunes come nearly to the foredune near the northern
extent of what was to become the Bayshore development.

A single aerial photograph taken in 1952 shows scattered low vegetation on the southern part of
the spit and locally on the northwest part of the spit.  The areas that appear vegetated in the 1939
photographs are larger and have more vegetation in 1952.  However, the general morphology of

the spit appears similar to the 1939 photography.  A stereo pair was not available for the 1952
photography so it is not possible to discern foredune height or width.  Cooper (1958) provides
the first description of dune morphology on Alsea Spit and describes it as a “blunt spit bare of
dunes”.

Aerial photographs taken in 1967 show the project shortly after it was developed with only a few
homes in place.  In 1967 much of the foredune appears to have been graded and consists of a
relatively narrow area seaward of NW Oceania Drive.  The graded portion of the foredune
appears to have been planted (in dune grass?) and other parts that were not apparently graded
were covered with low vegetation.  Most of the few homes that existed seaward of NW Oceania
Drive in 1967 were essentially notched into the foredune and many of those were located on the
seaward edge of the foredune adjacent to the edge of the bare sand beach.  Lund (1972) describes
Alsea spit as a low dune ridge near the beach with a low sandy grassy plain that slopes to Alsea
Bay.  Stembridge (1975) describes Alsea Spit and the Bayshore development in the mid-1970’s
and reports a significant amount of accretion occurring, mainly in the southern part of the
development with the main foredune increasing in elevation at a rate of 0.5 foot/year.

Aerial photographs taken in 1977 and 1980 show a significant seaward enlargement of the
foredune, particularly in the southern half of the project area.  It is apparent on the aerial
photographs that a small amount of seaward growth of the foredune occurred in the northern part
of the development between 1967 and 1977.

The 1982-83 El Nino resulted in significant changes at Bayshore (Jackson and Rosenfield, 1987;
Komar, 1997).  Those changes, which are described in the previous section regarding outlet
migration, resulted in placement of a large amount of rip rap to protect properties in the southern
part of the Bayshore Development.  Records at Oregon Parks and Recreation Department
(OPRD) indicate that in 1984 permits were issued for installation of rock rip rap extending from
the northern edge of the Beach Club property (beach access 4) south around the end of the spit
(Tony Stein written communication, 2011).

Aerial photographs taken in 1984 and 1985 show a seaward enlargement of the vegetated dunes
and an increase in vegetation on the dunes in management units 1-3, relative to 1977.  In
management unit 4 and the northern part of management unit 5 the vegetated dunes do not
enlarge seaward but the amount of vegetation cover increases dramatically between 1977 and
1984-85.  Obvious erosion and landward retreat of the dunes begins in the southern part of
management unit 5 and extends into management unit 7.  Rip rap is obvious in management
units 5-8 on the photographs but not farther north.  The seaward edge of the foredune in
management units 1-4 is a very distinct feature on the 1985 photography and appears to have
been recently eroded.

Aerial photographs taken in 1987 show a significant amount of recent sand deposition in the
southern part of the planning area obscuring much of the rip rap.  In the northern part of the
planning area the width of the vegetated dunes is similar to 1985 but the seaward edge of the
dunes is not nearly as distinct as it is on the 1985 photographs.  In 1987 the beach has much
more driftwood than in 1985 and there appears to be more sand, suggesting that the beach was
accreting.

The late 1980’s through the mid 1990’s were a period of recovery and accretion for the beach
and dunes along Alsea Spit.  Komar (1998) reports that by 1997 the beach at Alsea Spit had fully
recovered from the 1982-83 El Nino.  In 1997-98 the area was subjected to another strong El
Nino immediately followed by a strong La Nina in the 1998-99 winter resulting in another period
of erosion that threatened homes in the southern part of the planning area, some of which had
reportedly been constructed seaward of the rip rap installed a decade earlier (Komar, 1998).
Records at Oregon Parks and Recreation Department (OPRD) indicate that in 1999 several
permits were issued for installation of additional rip rap at several locations in management units
5, 6 and 7 (Tony Stein written communication, 2011).

Aerial photographs taken in 2000 show the beach in management units 5-7 to locally have major
erosion with several obvious areas of rip rap apparent.  The beach in front of management units 6
and 7 is very narrow and eroded nearly to the rip rap.  The 2000 photography obviously records
the erosion event that started during the 1997-98 El Nino.  In 2000 the foredune location in
management units 1-4 is seaward of its location on the 1987 photographs and covered with
scattered vegetation (except at the very north end of management unit 1 where it is similar to
how it appeared in 1987).

The ortho imagery from 2005-2009 lacks consistency and detail of the traditional aerial
photography.  In some places such as management unit 1 the images document an obvious
increase in vegetation during those years and seaward enlargement of the vegetated area.  In
other areas the details are not obvious due to over exposure of the image and pixilation.
Beginning in the late 1990’s LIDAR surveys became available and our documentation of change
is done using that methodology which is described below.

Changes in the Shoreline Location
Figures 8A-B show the location of historic shorelines and the position of the shoreline as
captured in 2011.  The shorelines were generated using various methods a description of which is
contained in Appendix 4, however each can serve as a proxy for the location of the mean higher
high water (MHHW) line.  The MHHW line is generally the average height of the highest high
tides over a given interval of time.  The 1928 shoreline location is the eastern most and oldest of
the available shorelines.  In management units 1 and 2 it is located very near and locally inland
of the current foredune location.  The line then trends seaward through management units 3 and

4 before migrating landward again in units 5, 6, and 7.  The next available shoreline is the 1967
line which is located on average 100-200 feet west of the 1928 line through the middle of
management unit 4 where it then trends seaward through the tip of the spit suggesting that the tip
was much wider in 1967 than in 1928.  The 1997, 1998, and 2002 shorelines are derived from
LIDAR data and bracket the El Nino erosion event that occurred during that time.  The 1997
shoreline is generally west of the 1998 shoreline showing that indeed the beach underwent some
amount of erosion during that time.  The erosion appears to be greatest in management units 4
and 5 where the 1998 shoreline migrated to the east near and locally landward of the location of
the shoreline in 1928.  This coincides with where many of the shore protection permits were
issued in 1999 for lots within management unit 5.  The 2002 shoreline captures the subsequent
accretion following the erosion event, especially in management units 5, 6, and 7.  The
shorelines from 2007, 2008, 2010, 2011 in general show minor erosion relative to the 2007
shoreline in the northern half of the planning area while the southern half including the tip shows
general accretion.

Changes in Beach Profiles
Beach profiles are commonly used to compare and quantify changes over time on a section of
beach.  Beach profiles at Bayshore have been measured using two methods: 1) surveying with a
Real Time Kinematic Differential Global Positioning System (RTK-DGPS) unit and, 2) using
elevation data acquired from LIDAR.  LIDAR data for the beach at Alsea Spit is available for the
years 1997, 1998, 2002 and 2009.  Appendix 3 describes how profiles were generated using both
methods.  For this report we show ten profiles to document change in the planning area.   Figures
9A-B show the location of the profiles and Figures 10A-J show the profiles plotted.  The location
of the Oregon Statutory Vegetation Line is shown on Figure 9 and on the x-axis of the plotted
profiles (Figure 10).  The BFE and BFE + 4 feet is plotted on the Y-axis of the plots.   For all ten
locations we generated profiles from the 1998, 2002 and 2009 LIDAR data.  Profiles 3, 5, 7,8
and 9 were surveyed in May, 2011 with the RTK-DGPS and we show that data as well.  Profiles
3, 5 and 8 have been monitored by DOGAMI and include the 1997 beach profile.  The 1997
configuration was purposefully omitted from the other profiles to simplify them.

The profiles show consistent trends.  In viewing the profiles it is important to keep in mind the
timing of profile measurement relative to storm history.  The 1997 profiles were prepared from
LIDAR data that was gathered before the 1997-98 El Nino event and the 1998 profiles were
based on data collected after the 1997-98 El Nino.  Profiles 3, 5 and 8 clearly show erosion
between 1997 and 1998, changes that are inferred to be related to the 1997-98 El Nino.  As
previously discussed the Pacific Northwest was impacted by very large wave events several
times in the winter of 1998-99 and once again in the winter of 2000.  Most of the 2002 profiles
show some amount of landward retreat of the seaward edge of the dune system or erosion of the
beach near the beach junction angle.  It is likely that most of the change between the 1998 and
2002 profiles are due to the large wave events that occurred during the two winters after the 1998

LIDAR data was collected.  The 2009 profiles essentially all show seaward growth of the
foredune face relative to 2002 and many of them show an elevation increase of the foredune
crest.  Profiles surveyed in 2011 show continued growth of the dune system both as a seaward
migration of the foredune face and an elevation increase of the dune crest.

Not all of the changes apparent on the profiles are related to natural events, some of the change is
related to grading.  This apparently was the case on profile 7 where the dune was lowered about
10 feet between 1998 and 2002 and on profile 9 where the dune was lowered by 4 feet between
2002 and 2009.

CURRENT BEACH TOPOGRAPHY
Availability of  Sand for Grading
The ability to grade the foredune is dependent on the elevation of the dune relative to the base
flood elevation.  Goal 18 requires maintaining a foredune height that is 4 feet above the 100-year
BFE for the velocity zone.  The most complete recent topographic data set for the foredune
system at Bayshore is the 2009 LIDAR.  Figures 11A-H show LIDAR-derived contour maps of
the planning area for each management unit.  On each figure there are up to three colors of
contours.  The contour matching the BFE is shown as blue, the contours with values that exceed
the base flood elevation by 4 feet are shown in red and all other contours are shown as grey.  The
figures also show the footprints of the existing homes.  Three of the figures do not have any red
contours because the elevation of the foredune in 2009 did not exceed the base flood elevation by
4 feet in management units 1, 2 and 3.  The elevation of the foredune decreases to the north and
in management units 1and 2 the vast majority of the foredune in 2009 was below the base flood
elevation.

The management units with the widest area of sand seaward of the homes that was available for
grading, based on the 2009 topography, are management units 4 and 5.  The reasons for this are
twofold: 1) areas within several of the management units had been graded prior to collection of
the LIDAR data, and 2) the way sand is transported and deposited on the beach as discussed
earlier.

The 2011 survey of profile 3, located in management unit 3, shows the foredune crest to be 4 feet
higher than it was in 2009 and essentially four feet above the base flood elevation (Figure 9C).
The aerial photography taken in 2011 shows recent sand deposition along portions of the
foredune along the entire management area and it is likely that the magnitude of change of the
foredune crest in the northern management units between 2009 and 2011 is similar to the change
at profile 3.  The topographic data collected in 2011 shows an overall increase in elevation of the
dune crest in management units 4-7 (except where grading had lowered it below the 2009
elevation).

Changes in Sand Dune Elevations Since 2009
A traverse made along the crest of the foredune from north to south using the RTK-DGPS
beginning in the southern part of management unit 4 and ending in management unit 7.
Elevation data was automatically collected every meter along the traverse.  The traverse was
incorporated into the GIS and the elevation data was compared with elevations taken from the
LIDAR digital elevation model at the same locations.  Figure 12 is plan view showing the
location of the traverse and Figure 13 is a plot of the traverse showing elevations along it in 2009
and 2011.  It is apparent from the traverse that elevations of portions of the traverse increased by
1 to 9 feet.  Some areas remained the same or decreased in elevation and many of those are
where grading had occurred.  Dune elevations in 2011 were only measured in one area north of
the traverse and that was on profile 3, in management unit 3.  Profile 3 showed that the dune
crest grew 4 feet in elevation between 2009 and 2011.  We expect that elsewhere in the northern
part of the management area the foredune crest has grown in height on the order of 1 to 4+ feet.

We also collected several hundred elevation points with the RTK-DGPS on the dune system in
the southeast part of management unit 7.  That data, which is cumbersome to show, indicates
several feet of vertical change.  Most of the change was positive indicating dune growth but
some of the change was negative, indicating dune migration.  The maximum negative change
measured was -3.65 feet, the maximum positive change was +8.96 feet and the average change
measured was +3.77 feet.

HUMAN FACTORS
Human factors that influence the beach include installation of beachfront protective structures,
establishment of stabilizing vegetation, construction of homes and development of trails for
beach access and use.

Beachfront Protective Structures
Beachfront protection structures (aka shore protection structures), in the form of rip rap, exist in
the southern half of the planning area.  Records at Oregon Parks and Recreation Department
(OPRD) indicate permits were issued for installation of rock rip rap extending from the northern
edge of the Beach Club property (approximate north edge of management unit 4) south around
the end of the spit (Tony Stein written communication, 2011).  Permits were issued for riprap in
1984 and 1999 with the 1999 permits being for repairs to the earlier rip rap that was damaged.
The 1999 permits were issued for properties from the middle of management unit 5 into the
northern part of management unit 7.
Information regarding the location and height of the rip rap is highly variable.  There is very little
documentation regarding much of the rip rap that was placed in 1984, especially in management
unit 4.  The information that is available indicates that riprap placed in 1984 had a height above

the beach ranging between 13 and 30 feet.  The 1999 permits state that riprap heights ranged
from 18 to 30 feet.  The exact location of the rip rap relative to the existing homes is not
consistently documented in the permit file.  A review of the permits indicates that the location of
the rip rap varies from being 50 feet seaward of the homes to being directly beneath the seaward
edge of the homes (Tony Stein, written communication, 2011).  The permit file is large and
materials within it are not consistent.  Komar (1998) reports that some homes constructed
between the mid 1980’s and the mid 1990’s were located seaward of the 1984 riprap.

Review of the 1999 permits indicates that the repairs were made because the 1984 riprap was
inadequate and not well constructed (Tony Stein, written communication, 2011).  Additional
repairs are expected to be necessary when the area is once again subjected to ocean conditions
that erode the foredune and expose or undermine the older rip.

The existing rip rap is obviously not adversely affecting recent sand deposition at Bayshore since
it has been completely buried for many years.  Sand accumulation rates at this site are so high
that the riprap is not expected to be an adverse impact to future sand deposition when it
ultimately becomes exposed in the next major erosion event.

Establishment of Vegetation and Home Construction
The establishment of European beach grass has led to major growth of the foredune system on
Oregon’s beaches.  It is apparent on the older aerial photographs that, prior to development,
blowing sand was not accumulating in significant amounts on Alsea Spit.  Instead, the sand was
blowing off of the beach across the bare sand area and accumulating in a system of inland dunes
in the northern part of the spit.  Establishment of European beach grass has helped retain much of
the sand on the beach.  Construction of homes on the southern part of the spit has also resulted in
significant sand deposition and retention.  Low lying areas on the leeward edges of homes are
areas where sand is regularly deposited.  The homes constructed in the southern part of Bayshore
do not have consistent elevations.  Many of the more recently constructed homes are at
significantly higher elevations than homes which were constructed earlier because the dunes had
grown in elevation in the period between when the older homes were constructed and when the
newer homes were constructed.  This difference in elevation results in more sand being deposited
on several of the older homes which are lower.  If sand was not removed by remedial grading
many of the homes in management units 6 and 7 would, to a large extent, be buried by sand as a
large dune develops.

Trails Across Beach
It is evident on the aerial photographs that an extensive informal social trail system exists at
Bayshore.  Nearly every home has a trail that accesses the beach and locally there is a myriad of
interconnected social trails (Appendix 1).  Although there are plenty of bare sand areas
associated with the trails we did not identify areas where large erosion problems exist that are

related to trail use, primarily due to the large amount of accretion that is occurring.  It is possible
that vegetation damage related to trampling may be affecting colonization of the foredune where
it is not completely vegetated.

Vacant Lots
Vacant lots exist in management units 1, 3, 4, 5 and 7.  The LIDAR data indicates that vacant
lots in management unit 7 and the southern half of management unit 5 increased in elevation by
several feet between 2002 and 2009.  The amount of change varies significantly, even on
individual lots, ranging from no change to a gain of as much as 14 feet.  The two northern lots in
management unit 5 show no significant elevation gain between 2002 and 2009 but the dune
seaward of them showed significant growth.  This is inferred to be due to the orientation of the
shoreline relative to the wind direction.  The vacant lots in management units 1, 3 and 4 did not
experience change.

The vacant lots which have accumulated significant sand in management units 5 and 7 are higher
than surrounding areas and, during large wind events, wind transported sand is deposited on
adjacent lower areas on their leeward sides.  This process has resulted in the build-up of large
deposits of sand on adjacent areas.  Sand has also locally built up to a point where it can slough
and fail onto adjacent lower lying portions of lots that have been cleared.

Beach Access Areas
There are 7 designated beach access locations in the planning area (Figure 3).  According to the
Lincoln County Tax Assessors Maps the access areas range between 10 and about 22 feet in
width.  Access 1, the northernmost, is shown to be about 22 feet wide, accesses 4, 6 and 7 are
shown to be about 16 feet wide and the remainder have a width of about 10 feet.   The beach
accesses function as trails across the dunes to the beach.  All of the accesses have been impacted
by sand accumulations and growth of the foredune but the greatest impacts have been at the
southern two accesses where sand has accumulated near NW Oceania Drive, particularly access
6 which is bounded to the south by a vacant lot.  At least some of the access locations are likely
routes for equipment for foredune grading.

Sand Inundation Impacts
Sand inundation has been an ongoing issue at Bayshore and it is referenced as far back as the
mid-1970’s (USDA 1975).  However, discussions with residents and other individuals who have
regularly visited or worked in the area indicate that the impacts have become more severe in the
last few years.  Discussions with people who visited the area in the 1980’s report that sand
inundation was an issue.   A photograph included in a draft dune management plan prepared
sometime between the late 1980-s and mid 1990’s by Wilbur Ternyik shows a home partially
buried by sand.  We have taken similar photographs of that same structure.

Impacts include sand accumulation against structures (locally up to their roofs), burial of
driveways, burial of front lawns and septic systems and burial of portions of Oceania Drive and
Alsea Bay Drive.  Home access has been blocked, windows and garage doors damaged and walls
are threatened by the load of the accumulated sand.  Accumulation of sand in the area between
homes and Oceania Drive has buried water lines, water meters and fire hydrants.  Sand has
accumulated within walls and on ceilings through vents which has reportedly resulted in collapse
of a ceiling and damaged electrical wiring.  In many cases sand removed from driveways and the
road surface of Oceania Drive has been piled along the shoulder of the road contributing to burial
of the water system.  Sand that buries the water system inhibits emergency response making it
impossible to access water valves and buried hydrants.  A dune management plan can help
provide a mechanism to manage sand on the roads and improve emergency response capability.

Accumulated sand has been removed through the remedial grading process and permitted by
Lincoln County.  The Oregon Statutory Vegetation Line is located just seaward of the homes and
Oregon State Parks and Recreation Department has issued numerous permits for disposal of sand
on the beach seaward of the Vegetation Line.  Areas of recent grading are evident on the recent
photography (Appendix 1) and it obvious from the aerial photography and the LIDAR data that
remedial grading has been occurring for many years.

CONCLUSIONS
1. The planning area was “developed” prior to 1977 thus it does qualify for foredune
grading.

2. Inundation by wind blown sand at Bayshore has been a problem for many years and will
continue.  Aerial photographs taken in 1939 and 1952 prior to development show large
active sand dunes downwind.  The same processes that caused those dunes to develop
exist today, the major difference is that sand is being deposited in the foredune rather
than being transported across an open sand flat to inland dunes.

3. Beachfront protective structures exist at the site.  These structures provide some level of
protection to homes when the beach is subjected to a significant wave erosion event but
they do not influence the deposition or erosion of sand by wind.

4. The area will be subjected to future wave erosion events most likely in association with a
strong El Nino.  Such erosion events will erode the foredune and likely expose the
beachfront protective rip rap, possibly locally eroding it.  The area at greatest risk of
impacts is located within management units 5-7.

5. Northward outlet migration of Alsea Bay is likely to occur again during a very strong El
Nino Event.  When that occurs portions of the beach are expected to be severely eroded
by ocean waves, exposing the rip rap and resulting in placement of additional rip rap.

6. A wider foredune has the potential to lower the risk for waves to erode all the way to the
rip rap, depending on the severity of the wave event(s).  A dune management plan can
provide the ability to help accomplish a wider foredune that can lower the risk of impacts
if a dune with a sufficient width can be developed.

7. Events that result in the erosion of the foredune will be followed by periods of accretion,
foredune growth and, ultimately, future inundation problems.  Management of the
foredune through a dune management plan earlier in the recovery process is expected to
be more effective at reducing inundation impacts than implementing a program when
impacts are severe.  However, a dune management plan will allow for a much more
integrated approach to sand management to lessen impacts to the developments.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
We are grateful to  Dr. Jonathon Allan of DOGAMI for providing copies of an extensive digital
data set he has assembled, including DEMs of the gridded LIDAR data from 1997, 1998 and
2002.  Dr. Allan also provided access to the RTK-DGPS and Laura Stimely of DOGAMI helped
collect the topographic data.  Tony Stein of OPRD undertook the daunting task of the reviewing
and trying to make sense of the extensive files regarding shore protection structures installed at
Bayshore.  The staff of Lincoln County provided considerable support. Valerie Soilihi, Stewart
Cowie and others at the Planning Department provided access to materials and a work space for
viewing and scanning.  Eli Adam of Lincoln County provided GIS data.  Laren Woolley, through
DLCD, helped to initiate this project, arranged for partial funding to Lincoln County and has
provided support throughout it.  Don Best of Best Impressions Picture Company provided all of
the aerial photographs.  Finally, we are grateful to the property owners at Bayshore for partial
funding and encouragement.

REFERENCES
Allan, J. C. and P. D. Komar, 2002, Extreme stor ms on the Pacific Northwest Coast during the
1997-98 El Nino and 2998-99 La Nina: Journal of Coastal Research, v. 18, no. 1, p. 175-193
Allan, J.C. and R. Hart, 2005. A geographical in formation system (GIS) data set of beach
morphodynamics derived from 1997, 1998, and 2002 LI DAR data for the central to northern
Oregon coast, Oregon Department of Geology and Mineral Industries Open file report O-05-09.

Allan, J.C. and P. D. Komar, 2005. Morphologies of Beaches and Dunes on the Oregon Coast,
with Tests of the Geometric Dune-Erosion Mode l, Oregon Department of Geology and Mineral
Industries Open file report O-05-08.
Cooper, W. S., 1958, Coastal Sand Dunes of Oregon and Washington, Geological Society of
America Memoir 72, 169p.

Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), 2009A.  Flood Insurance Study Number
41041CV000A
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEM A), 2009B.  Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)
Community 41034 Panel 0662D
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEM A), 2009C.  Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)
Community 41034 Panel 0655D
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), 2011, Flood Map Update Schedule,
http://www.floodsmart.gov/floodsmart/pages/flooding_flood_risks/map_update_schedule.jsp

Hunter, R. E., B. M. Richmond and T. R. Alpha , 1983.  Storm-controlled oblique dunes of the
Oregon Coast, Geological Society of America Bulletin V. 94  p. 1450-1465.
Jackson, P. L. and C. Rosenfield, 1987, Erosional Changes at Alsea Spit, Waldport, Oregon
Oregon Geology, V. 49 No. 5  p. 55-59.
Komar, P. D. , 1997, The Pacific Northwest Coast, Living with the Shores of Oregon and
Washington: Duke University Press, Durham & London; 195 p.
Komar, P. D., 1998a, Beach Processes and Sedimentation: Prentice Hall Inc., Englewood Cliffs;
544 p.
Komar, P. D., 1998b, El Nino and Coastal Erosion in the Pacific Northwest: Oregon Geology, V.
60 No. 3  p. 57-65
Komar, P. D. , W. G. McDougal,  J. J. Marra and P. Ruggier o, 1999, The rational analysis of
setback distances – applications to the Oregon coast: Shore and Beach, v. 67, p. 41-49.
LeFever, C and O. W. Swainson, 1928, Cape Perpetua to Alsea Bay, U.S. Doast and Geodetic
Survey topographic sheet, Register No. 4413, surveyed May1 to August 25, 1928, 1:20,000 scale
Lund, E.H. 1972 Coastal Landforms Between Yachats and Newport, Oregon,  The Ore Bin V.
34, No. 5 p.73-91
McCandless, D., 2009, National Shoreline Change Assessment Project-Oregon 1967 Shoreline.
Coastal Monitoring & Analysis Program, Washington State Department of Ecology, Lacey,
Washington.
Northwest Association of Networked Ocean Observing Systems (NANOOS), 2001
http://www.nanoos.org

National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), 2006, Coastal Services Center,
Data web site: http://www.scs.noaa.gov/crs/tcm/
Oregon Department of Land Conservation and Development (DLCD), 2010 Oregon’s statewide
planning goals and guidelines: Department of Land Conservation and Land Conservation and
Development, Salem, Oregon, 80 p.
Priest, G. R., 1995, Tsunami Hazard Map of the Waldport Quadrangle, Lincoln County, Oregon,
Oregon Department of Geology and Mineral Industries Open File Report O-93-31.
Priest, G. R. and J. C. Allan, 2004, Evaluation of Coastal Erosion Hazard Zones Along Dune and
Bluff Backed Shorelines in Lincoln County, Oregon: Cascade Head to Seal Rock, Technical
Report to Lincoln County, Oregon Department of Geology and Mineral Industries Technical
Report O-04-09.
Priest, G.R. C. Goldfinger, K. Wang, R.Witter, Y. Zhang and A. M. Baptista, 2009, Confidence
levels for tsunami-inundation limits in northern Oregon inferred from a 10,000 year history of
great earthquakes at the Cascadia subduction zone,  Natural Hazards V.54, Number 1, pp 27-73.
Ruggiero, P., P. D. Komar, W. G. McDougal and R. A. Beach, 1996, Extreme water levels, wave
runup and coastal erosion: Proceedings of the 25
th Conference on Coastal Engineering, ASCE,
p.2793-2805.
Schlicker H. G., R. J. Deacon, G. W. Olcott and J. D. Beaulieu, 1973.  Environmental geology of
Lincoln County, Oregon, Oregon Department of Geology and Mineral Industries Bulletin 81,
171 p.
Stembridge, J.E. Jr. 1975, Recent shoreline changes of the Alsea sandspit, Lincoln County,
Oregon, Ore Bin v. 37, No. 5 p. 77-82
Ternyik, W. E. (undated) Bayshore Foredune Management Plan.  Draft management plan
prepared for Bayshore Beach Club
United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Soil Conservation Service, 1975 Beaches and
Dunes of the Oregon Coast Oregon Costal Conservation and Development Commission  March,
1975
Witter, R. C, J. C. Allan and G. R. Priest, 2007, Evaluation of Coastal Erosion Hazard Zones
Along Dune and Bluff Backed Shorelines, Southern Lincoln County, Oregon: Seal Rock to Cape
Perpetua, Oregon Department of Geology and Mineral Industries Technical Report O-07-03
Wolter, K. and M. S. Timlin, 1993, Monitoring ENSO in COADS with a seasonally adjusted
principle component index, Proceedings of the 17
th Climate Diagnostics Workshop, Norman, OK,
NOAA/NMC/CAC, NSSL, Oklahoma Clim. Surve y, CIMMS and the School of Meteorology,
University of Oklahoma, p. 52-57
Wolter, K. and M. S. Timlin, 1998, Measuring th e strength of ENSO ev ents – how does 1997/98
rank?  Weather, V. 53 No. 9 p. 315-324

Wolter, K. and M. S. Timlin, 2011, El Nino/Southern Oscillation behavior since 1871 as diagnosed
in an extended multivariate ENSO index (MEI ex t.) International Journal of Climatology, Volume
31, p. 1074-1087
Wolter, K. 2011, Multivariate ENSO Index, http://www.esril.noaa.gov/psd/enso/mei/inex.html
Wyrtki, K., 1975, Fluctuations of the dynamic topography in the Pacific Ocean: Journal of
Physical Oceanography; v.5; p 450-459.
Lincoln County
Lane County Benton County
Yaquina Head
Cape Perpetua
Newport
Toledo
Waldport
Yachats
Alsea R iver
Yaquina River
Newport Littoral Cell
Bayshore Dune Management
Planning Area
State of Oregon
Area
of Detail
Alsea Bay
MU5
MU3
MU7
MU4
MU2
MU6
MU1
MU8
EXPLANATION
Dune Management Plan
Management Units
Plan Area
±
0 2,000
Feet
MU4
 #
 #
 #
 #
 #
BA4
BA1
BA2
BA3MU3
MU4
MU2
MU1
EXPLANATION
 # BEACH ACCESS
STATUTORY VEGETATION LINE
Dune Management Plan
Management Units
Plan Area
±
0 500
Feet
MU4
BA1
 #
 #
 #
Alsea Bay
BA7
BA5
BA6MU5
MU7
MU6
MU4
MU8
EXPLANATION
 # BEACH ACCESS
STATUTORY VEGETATION LINE
Dune Management Plan
Management Units
Plan Area
±
0 500
Feet
MU4
BA1
 #
 #
 #
 #
 #
BA4
BA1
BA2
BA3MU3
MU4
MU2
MU1
EXPLANATION
 # BEACH ACCESS
Coastal Erosion Hazard Zones-DOGAMI 2007
Active hazard zone
High hazard zone
Moderate hazard zone
Low hazard zone
Dune Management Plan
Management Units
Plan Area
±
0 500
Feet
MU4
BA1
 #
 #
 #
Alsea Bay
BA7
BA5
BA6MU5
MU7
MU6
MU4
MU8
EXPLANATION
 # BEACH ACCESS
Coastal Erosion Hazard Zones-DOGAMI 2007
Active hazard zone
High hazard zone
Moderate hazard zone
Low hazard zone
Dune Management Plan
Management Units
Plan Area
±
0 500
Feet
MU4
BA1
1982-83 1997-98
1
31
14
±
0 1,000
Feet
Legend
Dune Management Plan Area
FEMA Flood Hazard Zones
with Base Flood Elevation/Depth
AO
AE
VE
14'
24-34'
Depth 1'
29
1
±
0 1,000
Feet
Legend
Dune Management Plan Area
FEMA Flood Hazard Zones
with Base Flood Elevation/Depth
AO
AE
VE
14'
24-34'
Depth 1'
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
 #
 #
 #
 #
 #
BA4
BA1
BA2
BA3MU3
MU2
MU4
MU1
EXPLANATION
 # BEACH ACCESS
Shorelines (MHHW)
1928 T-sheet
1967 photo
! !
1997 lidar
! !
1998 lidar
! !
2002 lidar
2007 GPS
2008 GPS
2010 GPS
2011 GPS
Dune Management Plan
Management Units
Plan Area
±
0 500
Feet
MU4
BA1
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
! ! !
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
 #
 #
 #
Alsea Bay
BA7
BA5
BA6MU5
MU7
MU6
MU4
MU8
EXPLANATION
 # BEACH ACCESS
Shorelines (MHHW)
1928 T-sheet
1967 photo
! !
1997 lidar
! !
1998 lidar
! !
2002 lidar
2007 GPS
2008 GPS
2010 GPS
2011 GPS
Dune Management Plan
Management Units
Plan Area
±
0 500
Feet
MU4
BA1
2
MU3
MU4
MU2
MU1
EXPLANATION
BEACH PROFILES
STATUTORY VEGETATION LINE
Dune Management Plan
Management Units
Plan Area
±
0 500
Feet
MU4
7
Alsea Bay
5
10
9
7
MU5
MU7
MU6
MU4
MU8
EXPLANATION
BEACH PROFILES
STATUTORY VEGETATION LINE
Dune Management Plan
Management Units
Plan Area
±
0 500
Feet
MU4
7
ELEVATION (NAVD88) FT
PROFILE 1
HORIZONTAL DISTANCE (FT)
MHHW
(7.61 FT)
STATUTORY
VEGETATION
LINE
0
10
20
30
40
50
100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800
W
2002
2009
BFE
BFE+4FT
1998
ELEVATION (NAVD88) FT
PROFILE 2
HORIZONTAL DISTANCE (FT)
MHHW
(7.61 FT)
STATUTORY
VEGETATION
LINE
0
10
20
30
40
50
100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800
W
2002
2009
BFE
BFE+4FT
1998
ELEVATION (NAVD88) FT
PROFILE 3
HORIZONTAL DISTANCE (FT)
MHHW
(7.61 FT)
NO DATA POINTS
STATUTORY
VEGETATION
LINE
0
10
20
30
40
50
100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800
W
2011
2002
2009
1998
1997
BFE
BFE+4FT
ELEVATION (NAVD88) FT
PROFILE 4
HORIZONTAL DISTANCE (FT)
MHHW
(7.61 FT)
STATUTORY
VEGETATION
LINE
0
10
20
30
40
50
100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800
W
2002
2009
BFE
BFE+4FT
1998
HORIZONTAL DISTANCE (FT)
20
30
40
50
100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800
W
PROFILE 5
MHHW
(7.61 FT)
STATUTORY
VEGETATION
LINE
ELEVATION (NAVD88) FT
2011
2002
2009
1998
1997
BFE
BFE+4FT
ELEVATION (NAVD88) FT
PROFILE 6
HORIZONTAL DISTANCE (FT)
MHHW
(7.61 FT)
STATUTORY
VEGETATION
LINE
0
10
20
30
40
50
100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800
W
2002
2009
BFE
BFE+4FT
1998
ELEVATION (NAVD88) FT
PROFILE 7
HORIZONTAL DISTANCE (FT)
MHHW
(7.61 FT)
STATUTORY
VEGETATION
LINE
0
10
20
30
40
50
100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800
W
2011
2002
2009
BFE
BFE+4FT
1998
30
40
50
100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800
ELEVATION (FT), NAVD88
HORIZONTAL DISTANCE (FT)
PROFILE 8
MHHW
(7.61 FT)
WE
STATUTORY
VEGETATION
LINE
2011
2002
2009
1998
1997
BFE
BFE+4FT
ELEVATION (NAVD88) FT
PROFILE 9
HORIZONTAL DISTANCE (FT)
MHHW
(7.61 FT)
STATUTORY
VEGETATION
LINE
0
10
20
30
40
50
100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800
W
2011
2002
2009
BFE
BFE+4FT
1998
ELEVATION (NAVD88) FT
PROFILE 10
HORIZONTAL DISTANCE (FT)
MHHW
(7.61 FT)
STATUTORY
VEGETATION
LINE
0
10
20
30
40
50
100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800
W
2002
2009
BFE
BFE+4FT
1998
EXPLANATION
Management Unit 1
2009 Lidar 1ft Contour Interval (NAVD88)
Contour
BFE = 31ft
Dune Management Plan
Management Units
Plan Area
±
0 250
Feet
EXPLANATION
Management Unit 2
2009 Lidar 1ft Contour Interval (NAVD88)
Contour
BFE = 34
Dune Management Plan
Management Units
Plan Area
±
0 250
Feet
EXPLANATION
Management Unit 3
2009 Lidar 1ft Contour Interval (NAVD88)
Contour
BFE = 32ft
Dune Management Plan
Management Units
Plan Area
±
0 300
Feet
EXPLANATION
Management Unit 4
2009 Lidar 1ft Contour Interval (NAVD88)
Contour
BFE = 31ft
4ft+ above BFE
Dune Management Plan
Management Units
Plan Area
±
0 250
Feet
EXPLANATION
Management Unit 5
2009 Lidar 1ft Contour Interval (NAVD88)
Contour
BFE= 31ft
4ft+ above BFE
Dune Management Plan
Management Units
Plan Area
±
0 300
Feet
8
EXPLANATION
Management Unit 6
2009 Lidar 1ft Contour Interval (NAVD88)
Contour
BFE = 29ft
4ft+ above BFE
Dune Management Plan
Management Units
Plan Area
±
0 250
Feet
5
EXPLANATION
Management Unit 7
2009 Lidar 1ft Contour Interval (NAVD88)
Contour
BFE = 24ft
4ft+ above BFE
Dune Management Plan
Management Units
Plan Area
±
0 250
Feet
Alsea Bay
6
EXPLANATION
Management Unit 8
2009 Lidar 1ft Contour Interval (NAVD88)
Contour
BFE = 14ft
4ft+ above BFE
Dune Management Plan
Management Units
Plan Area
±
0 250
Feet
 #
 #
 #
Alsea Bay
BA7
BA5
BA6
MU5
MU6
MU7
MU4
MU8
EXPLANATION
 # BEACH ACCESS
Dune Crest Traverse
Dune Management Plan
Management Units
Plan Area
±
0 500
Feet
MU4
BA1
MANAGEMENT UNIT 5MANAGEMENT
UNIT 4
RECENT
GRADING
MANAGEMENT UNIT 5
MANAGEMENT UNIT 5 MANAGEMENT UNIT 6 MANAGEMENT UNIT 7
020
30
40
50
100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000
ELEVATION (NAVD88) FT
HORIZONTAL DISTANCE (FT)
SN60
1100
2011
2009
BFE
BFE+4FT
110020
30
40
50
1200 1300 1400 1500 1600 1700 1800 1900 2000 2100
ELEVATION (NAVD88) FT
HORIZONTAL DISTANCE (FT)
SN60
2200
2011
2009
BFE
BFE+4FT
220020
30
40
50
2300 2400 2500 2600 2700 2800 2900 3000 3100 3200
ELEVATION (NAVD88) FT
HORIZONTAL DISTANCE (FT)
SN60
3300
2011
2009
BFE
BFE+4FT
APPENDIX 1A
A
B
APPENDIX 1B
A
B
APPENDIX 1C
A
B
APPENDIX 1D
A
B
APPENDIX 1E
A
B
APPENDIX 1F
A
B

APPENDIX 2
Lidar Description
LIDAR (Light Detection and Ranging) data consists of x, y, and z values of land topography that
are derived using an airborne laser surveying system mounted on an aircraft at sufficient
elevation and velocity to acquire a value of the surface elevation at spatial densities greater than
one elevation measurement per square meter. The position of the aircraft is recorded by an
onboard geodetic grade Global Positioning System (GPS) receiver, while an onboard inertial
measuring unit provides three-dimensional aircraft orientation. The GPS data are then combined
with signals collected concurrently by a nearby GPS base station, which allows for differential
kinematic GPS post-processing to determine the aircraft’s flight trajectory to within 5 cm.  The
collected data consists of a huge data set that is post-processed and reduced into a digital
elevation model (DEM) that provides an elevation value for each m2 of area surveyed.  This data
can then be used by Geographic Information Systems (GIS) software to generate representations
of the DEM including, but not limited to, hillshade views, contour maps and slope profiles.  In
some instances the LIDAR data is not processed to differentiate between the ground surface and
the vegetation and in other cases it is.
LIDAR data from two different sources were used in this project.  LIDAR data collected in 1997,
1998 and 2002 was collected jointly by NASA/USGS/NOAA as part of two separate Airborne
LiDAR Assessment of Coastal Erosion (ALACE) Projects to monitor portions of the US
coastline.  The data is available from the NOAA Coastal Service Center.  We were provided
DEMs generated by Dr. Allan who had downloaded the data and processed it.  The ALACE
project data set does not differentiate between the ground surface and vegetation but because it is
of the beach it essentially measures the ground surface.  The 1997 and 1998 LIDAR elevation
points are known to be horizontally accurate to +/- 0.8 meters at an aircraft altitude of 700 meters
and raw elevation measurements have been determined to be vertically accurate to within 15 cm.
Processing steps (datum conversion, projection, grid interpolation, etc.) can introduce additional
error factors that are discussed by Allen and Hart (2005).  The 2002 LIDAR elevation points are
estimated to be horizontally accurate to +/- 0.8 meters at an aircraft altitude of 700 meters. Raw
elevation measurements are estimated to be vertically accurate to within 15-20 cm.
 The 2009 LIDAR data is from projects managed by the Oregon Department of Geology &
Mineral Industries (DOGAMI), who contracted with Watershed Sciences, Inc. to collect high
resolution topographic LiDAR data for multiple areas within the state of Oregon. The areas for
LiDAR collection have been designed as part of a collaborative effort of state, federal, and local
agencies in order to meet a wide range of project goals.  The 2009 data set consists of bare earth
and unclassified points. The average pulse density is 8.61 points per square meter over terrestrial
surfaces. Project specifications required the LiDAR foot print to fall within 0.15 and 0.40 meters.
The final vertical accuracy value for the entire project is 0.11 ft (0.03 m) RMSE.  Additional
information regarding this data can be obtained from the following report:
ftp://ftp.csc.noaa.gov/pub/crs/beachmap/qa_docs/or/north_coast/NC_Data_Report_Delivery_Area_FINA
L_compressed.pdf

APPENDIX 3
Profile Methods
On May 10, 2011 numerous field data were collected with technical assistance provided by
DOGAMI.  A backpack mounted Real Time Kinematic Differential Global Positioning System
(RTK-DGPS) unit was used to survey 7 profiles on the beach within the Bayshore development.
In addition to the profiles the area of major sand inundation on the southern tip of the spit and the
area immediately seaward of the homes extending north approximately 3,200 feet were surveyed
to quantify changes that have occurred since the 2009 LIDAR data set was collected.  The mean
higher high water (MHHW) line was also surveyed at this time.  The RTK-DGPS system
consists of a base station and radio transmitter setup at a known location that sends corrected
GPS information to the backpack unit (NANOOS, 2011).  The elevation data is collected in the
North American Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD88).  The data were downloaded and processed
by DOGAMI and supplied to us as raw coordinates in a comma separated values (csv) file
format.  The raw data was imported into surveying software where the individual cross sections
and other transects were split out and exported as CAD drawing files.  The drawing files were
imported into CAD software and were also converted to shapefiles for use in ArcMap GIS
software.

Additional profiles were generated from LIDAR (Light Detection and Ranging) data sets from
1997, 1998, 2002, and 2009.  Digitial elevation models (DEM) for the 1997, 1998, and 2002
LIDAR data sets were generated by DOGAMI for use in this project.  The data was originally
collected through a partnership of federal agencies for the Airborne LIDAR Assessment of
Coastal Erosion (ALACE) Project (ALACE, 1998 and 2002).  These data contain only first
return data points and have not been further processed to remove returns from water or
vegetation.   The 2009 LIDAR data set was collected by DOGAMI as part of a collaborative
effort of state, federal, and local agencies in order to meet a wide range of project goals.  This
data set includes bare earth and unclassified points.  The bare earth DEM was used in the
generation of profiles for this project.

All of the profiles were generated from the DEMs using ArcMap and its extensions and saved as
shapefiles.  The attributes of the shapefiles were exported to Excel which was used to generate a
series of files that could then be imported into CAD and viewed over-lapping in order to
visualize temporal changes along each profile.  Figures 10A-J were then given a vertical
exaggeration of 10-times in order to better see the morphological changes that have occurred.

APPENDIX 4
Shorelines
Shorelines for various years are shown in Figures 8A-B.  The 1928 and 1967 shorelines are used
as a proxy for the mean higher high water (MHHW) line which is the average of the higher high
tides for each day observed over the National Tidal Datum Epoch.  When determining the
shoreline from tide gauge data the nearest gauge is used to account for local variability of the
tides.  The 1928 shoreline was digitized by NOAA from National Ocean Service (NOS) T-sheets
where the surveyed shoreline represents the high water line as it existed at the time of the survey
(LeFever and Swainson, 1928).  This can then be used as an approximation of the MHHW line.
The 1967 shoreline was digitized by the Washington State Department of Ecology for use by the
United States Geological Survey in order to compare historical shorelines to modern-day
shoreline data obtained by LIDAR.  The approach used to generate the 1967 line was to scan,
geo-reference, triangulate with ground points, ortho-rectify and mosaic individual aerial photos
and to then digitize the wet-dry sand line that most closely corresponded to the MHHW given the
tidal conditions at the time the photos were taken (McCandless, 2009).  The shorelines for 1997,
1998, and 2002 were generated using LIDAR data, and local tide gauges were used to determine
the elevation (NAVD88) of the MHHW line during those times (Allan and Hart, 2005).
Recently, DOGAMI has begun mapping the MHHW line using a RTK-DGPS system.  The
2007, 2008, 2010, and 2011 shorelines were generated using this system and provided to us by
DOGAMI (Allan, unpublished data).  These shorelines represent the MHHW for the spring
season in Lincoln County.