TECHNICAL  MEMORANDUM

Lincoln County Transportation System Plan:
Evaluation Process and Measures of Effectiveness
PREPARED FOR: John deTar, ODOT Region 2 Planning
Matt Spangler, Lincoln County Planning and Development Department
Jim Buisman, Lincoln County Public Works Department
PREPARED BY: Darren Muldoon, CH2M HILL
DATE: June 15, 2006

The purpose of this memorandum is to propose (1) an evaluation process; (2) an evaluation
scoring system; and (3) measures of effectiveness – for use in evaluating proposed
improvements and developing the preferred alternative for the Lincoln County
Transportation System Plan (TSP) (prepared for ODOT under agreement #23238, work
order #40). This memorandum fulfills the requirements of Task 4.1 in the project scope.
Evaluation Process
The Transportation Planning Rule (TPR) direct TSPs to be based on an evaluation process to
identify the impacts of potential projects and improvements for evaluating transportation
system alternatives. According to the TPR, system alternatives should:
• Provide types and levels of transportation facilities and services appropriate to serve
land uses identified in the acknowledged comprehensive plan;
• Be consistent with state and federal air quality, land use, and water quality
standards;
• Facilitate connections (minimize conflicts) between modes of transportation; and
• Avoid principal reliance on any one mode of transportation/ reduce principal
reliance on the automobile.
For the Lincoln County TSP, the evaluation process will (1) guide the identification and
evaluation of potential transportation improvements and projects that will provide for a
safe, adequate, connected transportation system throughout Lincoln County for the next 20
years, and (2) prioritize the recommended transportation improvements and projects.
Proposed projects will address capacity improvements, safety improvements, intersection
improvements, pedestrian and bicycle improvements, other roadway needs (parking and
bridge improvements), and improvements to address other modes of transportation (air,
rail, water, and public transportation).
In developing and evaluating system alternatives, ODOT TSP guidelines state the following:
• “Communities are advised to scale their analysis to a reasonable level based on the
size of the community and the complexity of the transportation issues,” and;

• “Smaller communities with less complex transportation issues may find an
abbreviated analysis adequate to meet their needs.”
Based on this understanding, the projects evaluated and recommended for the Lincoln
County TSP are proposed to be evaluated by project type. Proposed project types are:
• Safety (mostly county and state roadways)
• Capacity (mostly county road/state hwy intersections)
• Transit and TDM
• Bicycle and Pedestrian
• Intermodal and Freight (including air, water, rail, pipelines)

The following summarizes key steps in the evaluation process:
1. Identify potential improvements and projects;
2. Evaluate potential improvements and projects within each project type (listed
above);
3. Determine which improvements and projects are not recommended, based on the
proposed evaluation criteria (measures of effectiveness and scoring system,
described below);
4. Prioritize remaining improvements and projects;
5. Include recommended improvements and projects in the TSP for County adoption.
A general scoring system was developed to evaluate proposed improvements and projects.
This scoring system and the general definitions are illustrated in Exhibit 1.
EXHIBIT 1
General Score Definitions
Score General Score Definitions
+ Project addresses the goal an d meets the goal’s objectives
0 Neither good, nor bad, or not applicable
- Project does not address the goal or has an adverse impact on the goal’s
objectives

Measures of Effectiveness
Proposed measures of effectiveness were developed for the evaluation process to identify
and evaluate potential transportation improvements and projects (Exhibit 2). The analysis
proposes ten measures to determine project priorities. These measures are:
• Mobility
• System Capacity
• Safety
• Accessibility

• Coordination
• Non-Motorized Users
• Feasibility
• Environment
• Cost
• Lifeline Routes
Priorities for projects will be determined by assigning a priority number of 1 to 4, with 1
meaning the highest priority and 4 meaning the lowest priority. The prioritized list of
projects will make up the TSP to be adopted by the County.
EXHIBIT 2
TSP Measures of Effectiveness
Measure and Goal Rating Project Criterion
+ Improves mobility and meets mobility standard
0 Does not significantly improve or decrease mobility
Mobility (v/c ratio):
Provide a viable
transportation system that
meets state and local
mobility standards
- Decreases mobility and does not meet mobility standard
+  Provides additional capacity to the system and improves the
operating conditions at deficient locations
0 Does not significantly improve capacity of the system
System Capacity: Provide
a transportation system that
maintains adequate levels
of capacity.
- Decreases capacity to levels below TSP guidelines
+ Improves safety for users
0 Does not significantly change roadway/facility safety
Safety: Provide a
transportation system that
maintains adequate safety
levels for all users - Decreases safety or creatues unsafe conditions for users
+ Provides or improves new transportation options or
connectivity to serve different types of users (i.e. bikes,
pedestrians, freight, street connections)
0 Does not significantly change transportation options or
connectivity
Accessibility: Develop a
transportation system that
will improve connectivity
and transportation options,
and thus support economic
development
- Limits the transportation options or connectivity of the system
+ Included as part of other local, county, regional or state
policies or plans
0 Not specifically mentioned in other policies or plans, but not
out of compliance with such plans
Coordination: Maintain a
TSP that is consistent with
the goals and objectives of
the TPR and relevant state,
regional, and local plans
and policies.
- Indirectly or specifically identified as being not in compliance
with other plans and policies
+ Improves the transportation system for bicycle, pedestrian,
and non-motorized users. The improvement is expected to
serve moderate levels of non-motorized users (i.e. near
schools, unincorporated urbanized areas)
0 Does not significantly change existing non-motorized facilities.
The improvement is not expected to serve many non-
motorized users.
Non-Motorized Uses:
Provide non-motorized
facilities to serve commuter
and recreational users
- Reduces some or key connectivity, safety, or aesthetics of
existing non-motorized facilities.
Feasibility: Identify
reasonable transportation
+ The project has no barriers, or some barriers but they are not
considered significant, or the project is already

EXHIBIT 2
TSP Measures of Effectiveness
Measure and Goal Rating Project Criterion
approved/funded
0 The project has barriers, but the project is recommended in
another adopted plan
improvements and projects
- The project is costly, would require right-of-way acquisition, or
would have significant environmental impacts.
+ Enhances environmentally significant areas or social goals, or
both
0 No impact to environmentally significant areas or social goals,
or both
Environment or Social:
Provide a transportation
system that balances
transportation services with
the need to protect the
environment, and  meet
social goals.
-  Adversely impacts environmentally significant areas or social
goals, or both
L The project cost is likely to be less than $100,000
M The project cost is likely between $100,000 to $500,000
Cost: Provide reasonably
accurate cost estimate to
base funding requests
H The project cost is likely to be greater than $500,000
+ Creates a new lifeline route or improves the effectivness and
connectity of an existing lifeline route
0 Does not significantly change the quality or identification of a
lifeline route
Lifeline Routes: Provide
links for county residents
and through traffic in the
event of an emergency
- Removes key connectivity or adversely affects the
effectiveness or connectivity of a lifeline route