2018 LCC CHAPTER 5 -- PAGE 1

CHAPTER 5

Taxes

TRANSIENT ROOM TAX
5.005    Definitions
5.010    Tax Imposed
5.012  Dedicated Funds
5.017    County Transient Lodging Tax Not Applicable in Cities
5.025    Collection of Tax by Operator; Rules for Collection
5.030    Operator's Duties
5.035    Exemptions from Tax
5.040    Registration of Operator; Form and Contents; Execution; Certificate of Authority
5.045    Due Date; Returns; Payments
5.050    Penalties and Interest
5.055    Deficiency Determinations; Evasion; Operator Delay
5.060    Redeterminations
5.065    Security for Collection of Tax
5.070    Lien
5.075    Refunds
5.080    Collection Fee
5.085    Administration; Records Kept and Available for Inspection
5.090    Transient Lodging Tax Review Committee; Appeal; Rules and Procedure
5.095    Duties of Committee
5.100    Appeal to Transient Lodging Tax Review Committee
5.105    Violations
5.110    Penalties

WASTE OR ABANDONMENT OF TAX FORECLOSED REAL PROPERTY
5.200    Procedure for Early Termination of Property Tax Foreclosure Redemption Period
for Waste or Abandonment

MARIJUANA TAX
1
5.305  Definitions
5.310  Tax Imposed
5.315  Collection
5.320  Interest and Penalties

1 Added and conformed by authority of LCC 0.130.

2018 LCC CHAPTER 5 -- PAGE 2

TRANSIENT ROOM TAX

 5.005  Definitions
 As used in LCC 5.005 to 5.110, unless the context requires otherwise:
 (1) "Hotel" means any structure, or any portion of any structure, which is occupied or
intended or designed for transient occupancy for 30 days or less, for dwelling, lodging, or sleeping
purposes, and includes any hotel, motel, inn, condominium, tourist home or house, studio hotel,
bachelor hotel, lodging house, rooming house, apartment house, public or private dor mitory,
fraternity, sorority, public or private club, and also means space in mobile home, recreational
vehicle, or trailer parks, or similar structure or space or portions thereof so occupied.
 (2) "Occupancy" means the use or possession, or the right to the use or possession for
lodging or sleeping purposes of any room or rooms in a hotel, or space in any mobile home,
recreational vehicle, or trailer park, or similar structure or space, or portions thereof.
 (3) "Operator" means the person who is the proprie tor of the hotel in any capacity. If the
operator performs his functions through a managing agent of any type or character other  than an
employee, the managing agent shall also be deemed an operator for the purposes of this chapter and
shall have the same duties and liabilities as his principal. Compliance with provisions of this
chapter, either by the principal or the managing agent shall be considered to be compliance by both.
 (4) "Cash accounting" means the operator does not enter the rent due from the transient on
his records until rent is paid.
 (5) "Accrual accounting" means the operator enters the rent due from the transie nt on his
records when the rent is earned, whether or not it is paid.
 (6) "Rent" means the consideration charged, whether or not received by the operator, for the
occupancy of space in a hotel, valued in money, goods, labor, credits, property, or other
consideration valued in money, without any deduc tion, but shall not include charges to a
condominium unit owner which are solely for cleaning or maintenance of such unit so long as the
charges are made in connection with space occupancy.
 (7) "Rent package plan" means the consideration charged for both food and rent where a
single rate is made for the total of both. The amount applicable to rent for determination of transient
room tax under this chapter shall be the same charge made for rent when consideration is not a part
of the package plan. The amount applicable to rent for determination of transient room tax under
this chapter shall be that amount allocated to space rent, taking into consideration a reasonable
value of other items in the rent package and taking into consideration the charge for rent when the
space is rented separately and not included in a package plan.
 (8) "Tax" means either the tax payable by the transient or the aggregate amount of taxes due
from an operator during the period for which he is required to report his collections.
 (9) "Tax administrator" means the Lincoln County Board of Commissioners, or its designee.
 (10) "Transient" means any individual who exercises occupancy or is entitled to occupancy
in a hotel for a period of 30 consecutive days or less, counting portions of calendar days as full
days. The day a transient checks out of the hotel shall not be included in determining the 30- day
period if the transient is not charged rent that day by the operator. Any individua l so occupying
space in a hotel shall be deemed to be a transient until the 30-day period has expired unless there is
an agreement in writing between the operator and the occu pant providing for a longer period of
occupancy, or the tenancy actually extends more then 30 consecutive days. A person who pays for
lodging on a monthly basis, regardless of the number of days in such month, shall not be deemed a
2018 LCC CHAPTER 5 -- PAGE 3

transient. An owner of a condominium unit, or any other person residing in the same, who is
required to pay any consideration for the use of the unit, shall be deemed a transient.
 (11) "Transient Lodging Tax Review Committee" means the Board of County
Commissioners, or, if it so elects, a committee composed of an accountant, an attorney, and three
other persons appointed by the Board and may be owners or operators of a "hotel" as defined in
subsection (1) of this section.
  [1991 o.301 § 1]

 5.010  Tax Imposed
 For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel in Lincoln County, each transient shall pay a tax
in the amount of ten percent (10%) of the rent charged by the operator.  The tax constitutes a debt
owed by the transient to the county which is extinguished only by payment by the operator to the
county. The transient shall pay the tax to the operator of the hotel at the time the rent is paid. The
operator shall enter the tax on the operator's records when rent is collected if the operator keeps the
records on a cash accounting basis and when earned if the records are kept on an accrual accounting
basis. If rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of the tax shall be paid by the transient to
the operator with each installment. In all cases, the rent paid or charged for occupancy shall exclude
the sale of any goods, services, and commodi ties, other than the furnishing of rooms and
accommodations.
  [1991 o.301 § 1; 2007 o.449 § 1; 2016 .485 § 1,]

 5.012  Dedicated Funds
 (1) Ten percent of the taxes collected under these code provisions (which is 1% of the
10% total) shall be disbursed to an ac count separate from all other accounts of the county to be
used to supplement disbursements authorized by Section 5.012(2)(c) below, or for similar
facilities elsewhere in the county, or to pay for operation of those facilities authorized by this
section and as allowed by law.  All funds are to be disbursed at the direction of the Board of
Commissioners.
 (2) One-third of the remaining taxes collected under these code provisions (which is 3%
of the 10% total) shall be disbursed in the following manner:
 (a) Thirty percent to the County General Fund;
  (b) Thirty percent to the Oregon Coast Aquarium for ongoing operating support; and
 (c) Forty percent in an account separate from all other accounts of the county to be known
as the Fairgrounds Facilities Impro vement Fund to be disbursed at the direction of the Board of
Commissioners for the purpose of facilities available for a fair or, in the event there is no fair, for
other tourism related facilities as allowed by law.
(3) Of the remaining two-thirds of the taxes collected under these code provisions (which
is 6% of the 10% total), 16.66 shall be disbursed at the direction of the Board of Commissioners
for the purpose of tourism promotion and economic development to the Central Oregon Coast
Association and the Economic Development Alliance of Lincoln County, or other appropriate
entities as determined by the Board.
 [1991 o.301 § 2; 2007 o.449 § 2]

5.015  [repealed 2007 o.449 § 5]

5.017  County Transient Lodging Tax Not Applicable in Cities
The transient lodging tax imposed by this chapter shall apply only to transient occupancy
within the unincorporated area of Lincoln County. [2007 o.449 § 4]
2018 LCC CHAPTER 5 -- PAGE 4

5.020  [repealed 2007 o.449 § 5]

 5.025  Collection of Tax by Operator; Rules for Collection
 (1) Every operator renting rooms or space for lodging or sleeping purposes in this county,
the occupancy of which is not exempted under the terms of this chapter, shall collect a tax from the
occupant. The tax collected or accrued by the operator constitutes a debt owing by the operator to
the county.
 (2) In all cases of credit or deferred payment of rent, the payment of tax to the operator may
be deferred until the rent is paid, and the operator shall not be liable for the tax until credits are paid
or deferred payments are made. Adjustments may be made for uncollectibles.
 (3) The tax administrator shall enforce provisions of this chapter and shall have the power
to adopt rules and regulations not inconsistent with this chapter as may be necessary to aid in the
enforcement.
 (4) For rent collected on portions of a dollar, fractions of a penny shall not be remitted.
 (5) In instances where credit is extended to the transient for charges for rental through the
use of a credit card or other similar transaction whereby the amou nt paid to the operator is
discounted by contract between the operator and the issuer of the credit card, the amount of such
discount shall be excluded from the definition of "rent" and no tax shall be imposed on the amount
so discounted.

 5.030  Operator's Duties
 Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this chapter at the same time as the rent is
collected from every transient. The amount of tax shall be separately stated upon the operator's
records, and any receipt rendered by the operator.  Operator of a hotel shall advertise that the tax or
any part of the tax will be assumed or absorbed by the operator, or that it will not be added to the
rent, or that, when added, any part will be refunded, except in the manner provided by this chapter.

 5.035  Exemptions from Tax
 No tax imposed under this chapter shall be imposed upon:
 (1) Any occupant for more than 30 successive calendar days with respect to any rent
imposed for the period commencing after the first 30 days of such occupancy.
 (2) Any occupant whose rent is of a value less than $2 per day.
 (3) Any person who rents a private home, vaca tion cabin, or like facility from any owner
who rents such facilities incidental to his own use thereof, except that this exemption shall not
apply to condominium units.
 (4) Any occupant whose rent is paid for hospital room or to a medical clinic, convalescent
home, or home for the aged, or to a public institution or public accommodation owned and operated
by a unit of government in its governmental capacity.
 (5) The United States of America, a body politic and sovereign.  This exemption shall
likewise apply with respect to any agency or instrumentality of the United States of America which
is entitled to exemption under the provisions of the Federal Consti tution.  However, such
exemption shall apply only in those instances in which the United States Government or an agency
or instrumentality thereof shall enter into an agreement for the rental of such lodgings and shall pay
the costs thereof directly to the  hotel or other entity providing such lodging.  No exemption is
2018 LCC CHAPTER 5 -- PAGE 5

created hereunder merely because the transient occupant of such room is an employee or is on the
business of the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof or because such
party shall be entitled to reimbursement for such costs.  [1991 o.301 § 1]
2018 LCC CHAPTER 5 -- PAGE 6

 5.040  Registration of Operator; Form and Contents; Execution; Certificate of
Authority
 Every person engaging or about to engage in business as an operator of a hotel in the county
shall register with the tax administrator within 15 days after commencing business. The privilege of
registration after the date of imposition of such tax shall not relieve any person from the obligation
of payment or collection of tax regardless of registration.  Registration shall be on a form provided
by the administrator and shall set forth the name under which the operator transacts or intends to
transact business, the location of his place or places of business and such other information to
facilitate collection of the tax as the tax administrator may require. The registration shall be signed
by the operator. The tax administrator shall, within 10 days after registration, issue without charge a
certificate of authority to each registrant to colle ct the tax from the occupant, together with a
duplicate thereof for each additional place of business of each registrant. Certificates shall be
nonassignable and non transferable and shall be surrendered immediately to the tax administrator
upon the cessation of business at the location named or upon its sale or transfer.  Each certificate
and duplicate shall state the place of business to which it is applicable and shall be prominently
displayed therein so as to be seen and come to the notice readily of al l occupants and persons
seeking occupancy. The certificate shall include the following:
 (1) The name of the operator;
 (2) The address of the hotel;
 (3) The date upon which the certificate was issued; and
 (4) "This Transient Occupancy Registration Certificate signifies that the person named on
the face hereof has fulfilled the requirements of the Transient Room Tax Regulations of chapter
five of the Lincoln County Code, by registra tion with the tax administrator for the pur pose of
collection from transients the lodging tax imposed by said county and remitting said tax to the tax
administrator. This certificate does not authorize any person to conduct any unlawful business or to
conduct any lawful business in an unlawful manner, or to operate a hotel without strictly complying
with all local applicable laws, including, but not limited to, those requiring a permit from any board,
commission, department, or office of the county. This certificate does not constitute a permit."

 5.045  Due Date; Returns; Payments
 (1) The tax imposed by this chapter shall be paid by the transient to the operator at the time
that rent is paid. All amounts of such taxes collected by any operator are due and payable to the tax
administrator on a quarterly basis on the 15th day of the following month for the preceding three
months; and, are delinquent on the last day of the month in which they are due. The tax
administrator has authority to classify or district the operators for determination of applicable tax
periods, and shall notify each operator of the due and delinquent dates for the operator's returns.
The initial return under this chapter may be for less than the three months preceding the due date;
thereafter, returns shall be made for the applicable quarterly period.
 (2) On or before the 15th day of the month following each quarter of collection, a return for
the preceding quarter's tax collections shall be filed with the tax administrator. The return shall be
filed in such form as the tax administrator may prescr ibe by every operator liable for payment of
tax.
 (3) Returns shall show the amount of tax collected or otherwise due for the related period.
The tax administrator may require returns to show the total rentals upon which tax was collected or
2018 LCC CHAPTER 5 -- PAGE 7

otherwise due, gross receipts of operator for such period, and an explanation in detail of any
discrepancy between such amounts and the amount of rents exempt, if any.
 (4) The person required to file the return shall deliver the return, together with the
remittance of the amount of the tax due, to the tax administrator's office, either by personal delivery
or by mail. If the return is mailed, the postmark shall be considered the date of delivery for
determining delinquencies.
 (5) For good cause, the tax administrator may extend for not to exceed one month the time
for making any return or payment of tax. No fur ther extension shall be granted, except by the
Transient Lodging Tax Review Committee. Any operator to whom an extension is granted shall
pay interest at the r ate of one -half of one percent per month on the amount of tax due without
proration for a fraction of a month. If a return is not filed, and the tax and interest due is not paid by
the end of the extension granted, then the interest shall become a part of the tax for computation of
penalties described elsewhere in this chapter.
 (6) If it is deemed necessary in order to ensure payment or facilitate collection by the county
of the amount of taxes, the tax administra tor, in an individual case, may require r eturns and
payment for other than quarterly periods.

 5.050  Penalties and Interest
 (1) Any operator who has not been granted an ex tension of time for remittance of tax due
and who fails to remit any tax imposed by this chapter prior to delinquency shall pay 10 percent of
the amount of the tax due in addition to the amount of the tax.
 (2) Any operator who has not been granted an extension of time for remittance of tax due,
and who failed to pay a delinquent remittance on or before a period of 30 days following the date on
which the remittance first became delinquent shall pay a second delinquency penalty of 15 percent
of the amount of the tax due plus the tax and the 10 percent penalty first imposed.
 (3) If the tax administrator determines that the nonpayment of any remittance due under this
chapter is due to fraud or intent to evade the provisions thereof, a penalty of 25 percent of the
amount of the tax shall be added thereto in addition to the penalties stated in subsections (1) and (2)
of this section.
 (4) In addition to the penalties imposed, any operator who fails to remit any tax imposed by
this chapter shall pay interest at the rate of 1 percent per month or fraction thereof without proration
for portions of a month, on the amount of the tax  due, exclusive of penalties, from the date on
which the remittance first became delinquent until paid.
 (5) Every penalty imposed and such interest as accrued under the provisions of this section
shall be merged with and become a part of the tax herein required to be paid.
 (6) Any operator who fails to remit the tax herein levied within the time herein stated shall
pay the penalties herein stated; provided, however, the operator may petition the Transient Lodging
Tax Review Committee for waiver and refu nd of the penalty or any portion thereof and the
Transient Lodging Tax Preview Committee may, if a good and sufficient reason is shown, waive
and direct a refund of the penalty or any portion thereof.

 5.055  Deficiency Determinations; Evasion; Operator Delay
 (1) If the tax administrator determines that the returns are incorrect, the amount required
may be computed and determined upon the basis of the facts contained in the return or returns or
upon the basis of any information in the possession of the administrator. One or more deficiency
2018 LCC CHAPTER 5 -- PAGE 8

determinations may be made of the amount due for one, or more than one, period and the amount so
determined shall be due and payable immediately upon service of notice as herein provided after
which the amount determined is delinquent. Penalties on deficiencies shall be applied as set forth in
LCC 5.050.
 (a) In making a determination, the tax administrator may offset overpayment, if any, which
may have been previously made for a period or periods, against any underpayment for a subsequent
period or periods, or a gainst penalties and interest on the under payments. The interest on under
payments shall be computed in the manner set forth in LCC 5.050.
 (b) The tax administrator shall give to the operator or occupant a w ritten notice of the
determination. The notice may be served personally or by mail. If by mail, the notice shall be
addressed to the operator at an address as it appears on the records of the tax administrator and shall
be mailed by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested.
 (c) Except in the case of fraud or intent to evade this chapter or authorized rules, every
deficiency determination shall be made and notice thereof mailed within three years after the last
day of the month following the close of the quarterly period for which the amount is proposed to be
determined, or within three years after the return is filed, whichever is later.
 (d) Any determination shall become due and payable immediately upon receipt of notice
and shall become final within 20 days after the tax administrator has given notice thereof; provided,
however, the operator may petition redemption and refund if petition is filed before determination
becomes final as herein provided.
 (2) If any operator shall fail or refuse to collect the tax or make, within the time provided in
this chapter, any report or remittance of the tax or any portion thereof required by this chapter, or
makes a fraudulent return, or otherwise willfully attempts to evade this chapter, the tax
administrator shall proceed in such manner deemed best to obtain the facts and informa tion on
which to base an estimate of the tax due. As soon as the tax administrator has determined the tax
due that is imposed by this chapter from any operator who has failed or refused to collect the same
and to report and remit the tax, the tax administrator shall proceed to determine and assess against
such operator the tax, interest, and penalties provided for by this chapter. When determination is
made, notice shal l be given as provided in subsection (1)(b) of this section of the amount so
assessed. Such determination and notice shall be made and mailed within three years of the
discovery of any fraud, intent to evade, or failure or refusal to collect the tax or fai lure to file a
return.  Any determination shall become due and payable upon receipt of notice and shall become
final within 20 days after the tax administrator has given notice thereof; provided, however, the
operator may petition for redemption refund if the petition is filed before the determination
becomes final as herein provided.
 (3) If the tax administrator believes that the collection of any tax or any amount of tax
required to be collected and paid to the county will be jeopardized by delay, or if any determination
will be jeopardized by delay, it shall thereupon make a determination of the tax or amount of tax
required to be collected, noting the fact upon the determination. The amount so determined as
herein provided shall be immediately due and payable and the operator shall immediately pay such
determination to the tax administrator after service of notice thereof; provided, however, the
operator may petition, after payment has been made, for redemption and refund of such
determination, if the petition is filed within 20 days from the date of service of notice by the tax
administrator.

2018 LCC CHAPTER 5 -- PAGE 9

 5.060  Redeterminations
 (1) Any person against whom a determination is made under LCC 5.055, or any person
directly interested may petition for a redeter mination and redemption and refund within the time
required in LCC 5.055. If a peti tion for redetermination and refund is not filed within the time
required in LCC 5.055, the determination becomes final at the expiration of the allowable time.
 (2) If a petition for redetermination and refund is filed within the allowable period, the tax
administrator shall reconsider the determination, and, if the person has so requested in his petition,
shall grant the person a public hearing and shall give him 20-days' notice of the time and place of
the hearing. The tax administrator may continue the hearing from time to time as may be necessary.
 (3) The tax administrator may decrease or increase the amount of the determination as a
result of the hearing and if an increase is determined each increase shall be payable immediately af-
ter the hearing.
 (4) The order or decision of the tax administra tor upon a petition for redetermination of
redemption and refund becomes final 20 days after service upon the petitioner of not ice thereof,
unless appeal of such order or decision is filed with the Transient Lodging Tax Review Committee
within 20 days after the service of such notice.
 (5) No petition for redetermination of redemption and refund or appeal therefrom shall be
effective for any purpose unless the operator has first complied with the payment provisions of this
chapter.

 5.065  Security for Collection of Tax
 (1) To ensure compliance with this chapter, the tax administrator may deem it necessary to
require an operator to deposit with the county security in a form and amount determined by the tax
administrator. The amount of the security shall not be greater than twice the operator's estimated
average quarterly liability for the period for which he files returns, or $5,000, whichever amount is
lesser. The amount of security may be in creased or decreased by the tax administrator subject to
limitations herein provided.
 (2) At any time within three years after any tax, or any amount of tax required to be
collected, becomes due and payable, or at any time within three years after a determination becomes
final, the tax administrator may bring an action in the courts of this state, any other state, or of the
United States in the name of the county to collect the amount delinquent plus penalties and interest,
reasonable attorneys' fees determined by the court, and court costs.

 5.070  Lien
 (1) The tax imposed by this chapter together with the interest and penalties, reasonable
attorneys' fees, filing fees, and advertising costs shall be and, until paid, remain a lien from the date
of its recording with the clerk, and superior to all subsequent recorded liens on all tangible personal
property used in the hotel of an operator within the county, and may be foreclosed on and sold as
may be necessary to discharge said lien. Upon the recording of the lien with the county clerk, notice
of the lien shall be issued by the tax adminis trator whenever the operator is in default in the
payment of the tax, interest, and/or penalty.  A copy of the notice shall be sent by certified mail to
the operator. The tax administrator may send notice of the lien to condominium owners affected by
the lien. The personal property subject to a lien seized by any deputy or employee of the tax
administrator may be sold at public auction after 10-days' notice by one publication in a newspaper
of general circulation published in the county.  Any lien for taxes shown on the records of the
2018 LCC CHAPTER 5 -- PAGE 10

proper county official shall, upon payment of all taxes, penalties, and interest thereon, be released
by the tax administrator when the full amount determined to be due has been paid to the county and
the operator or person making such payment shall have a receipt thereon stating that the full amount
of taxes, penalties, and interest thereon have been paid and that the lien is hereby released and the
record of lien is satisfied.
 (2) The lien or liens created by this section attach to all tangible personal property
referenced herein.  The lien or liens created shall also attach to the proceeds of the sale of tangible
personal property subject to the lien or liens if:
 (a) Subsequent to the recording of the lien or liens, tangible personal property, or any part
thereof, is sold or delivered to an agent, broker, cooperative agency, or other person to be sold or
otherwise disposed of; and
 (b) The purchaser, agent, broker cooperative agency, or other person has actual or
constructive notice of the filing of the lien or liens, and the proceeds that were received or will be
received from the sale or other disposal of the tangible personal property have not been delivered to
the owner of the tangible personal property.
 (3) When a lien created by this section attaches to the proceeds of a sale of tangible personal
property under subsection (2)(a) and (b) of this section, a purchaser, agent, broker, cooperative
agency, or other person shall not deliver the proceeds or that portion of the proceeds equal to the
amount of the lien claim to the owner until:
 (a) A time specified by  LCC 5.065(2) during which a suit to foreclose the lien must be
commenced elapses;
 (b) A court orders delivery of the proceeds; or
 (c) The tax administrator issues a receipt stating that the full amount of taxes, interest,
penalties, and costs thereon have been paid and that the lien is released and the record of lien is
satisfied.
 (4) Any person to whom a notice of lien has been given as provided by this section, who
dismantles, removes from the county, misdelivers, or conceals tangible personal property or the
proceeds of the sale of tangible personal property upon which there is a valid lien without the
written consent of the lien claimant shall be liable to the lien claimant for damages proximately
resulting therefrom which sum may be recovered according to the provisions of LCC 5.065(2).
[1982 o.174 §1]

 5.075  Refunds
 (1) Whenever the amount of any tax, penalty, or interest has been paid more than once or
has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the tax administrator under this chapter, it
may be refunded, provided a verified claim in writing, stating the specific reason upon which the
claim is founded, is filed with the tax ad ministrator within three years from the date of payment.
The claim shall be made on forms provided by the tax administrator. If the claim is approved by the
tax administrator, the excess amount collected or paid may be refunded or may be credited on any
amount then due and payable from the operator from whom it was collected or by whom paid and
the balance may be refunded to such operator, his administrators, executors, or assigns.
 (2) Whenever the tax required by this chapter has been collected by an operator, and
deposited by the operator with the tax administrator, and it is later determined that th e tax was
erroneously paid or illegally collected or received by the administrator, it may be refunded by the
tax administrator to the transient, provided a verified claim in writing, stating the specific reason on
2018 LCC CHAPTER 5 -- PAGE 11

which the claim is founded, is filed wit h the tax administrator within three years from the date of
payment.
 (3) Whenever the tax required by this chapter has been collected by the operator and it is
later determined that the tenant occupies the hotel for a period exceeding 30 days without
interruption, the operator shall refund to such tenant the tax previously collected by the operator
from that tenant as a transient. The operator shall account for such collection and refund to the tax
administrator. If the operator has remitted the tax prior to the refund or credit to the tenant, he shall
be entitled to a corresponding refund under this section.

 5.080  Collection Fee
 Every operator liable for collection and remittance of the tax imposed by this chapter may
withhold 5 percent of the net tax  collected, to cover the operator's expense in collection and
remittance of the tax.

 5.085  Administration; Records Kept and Available for Inspection
 (1) The tax administrator shall deposit all money collected pursuant to this chapter to the
credit of the Transient Room Tax Fund.
 (2) Every operator shall keep guest records of room sales and accounting books and records
of the room sales. All records shall be retained by the operator for a period of three years and six
months after they come into being.
 (3) The tax administrator, or an authorized deputy, may examine during business hours the
books, papers, and accounting records relating to room sales of any operator, after notification to
the operator liable for the tax, and may investigate the business of the operator in order to verify the
accuracy of any return made, or if no return is made by the operator, to ascertain and determine the
amount required to be paid.
 (4) It shall be unlawful for the tax administrator or any person having an administrative or
clerical duty under the provisions of this chapter to make known in any manner whatever the
business affairs, operations, or information obtained by an investigation of records and equipment
of any person required to obtain a Transient Occupancy Registration Certificate, or pay a transient
occupancy tax, or any other person visited or examined in the discharge of official duty, or the
amount or source of income, profits, losses, expenditures, or any particular thereof, set forth in any
statement or application, or to permit any state ment or application, or copy thereof, or any book
containing an abstract or particulars thereof to be seen or examined by any person; provided, that
nothing in this subsection shall be construed to prevent:
 (a) The disclosure or examination of records and equipment by another county official,
employee, or agent for collection of taxes for the sole purpose of administering or enforcing any
provisions of this chapter or collection of taxes.
 (b) The disclosure, after the filing of a written request to that effect, to the taxpayer himself,
receivers, trustees, executors, administrators, assigns, and guarantors, if directly interested, of
information as to any paid tax, any unpaid tax, or amount of tax required to be collected, or interest
and penalties; further provided, however, that the county attorney approves each such dis closure
and that the tax administrator may refuse to make any disclosure referred to under this paragraph
when in his opinion the public interest would suffer thereby.
 (c) The disclosure of the names and addresses of any persons to whom Transient Occupancy
registration Certificates have been issued.
2018 LCC CHAPTER 5 -- PAGE 12

 (d) The disclosure of general statistics regarding taxes collected or business done in the
county.

 5.090  Transient Lodging Tax Review Committee; Appeal; Rules and Procedure
 The Board is authorized to create a Transient Lodging Tax review Committee composed of
an attorney, who may be a county employee; an accountant; an operator; and, two lay members. If a
committee is not created, the Board shall perform all duties and have all powers given to the
committee by this chapter. The committee shall select from its members a chairman who shall serve
at its pleasure. Three members of the committee shall  constitute a quorum. The committee shall
keep a record of its transactions. The committee shall be deemed to be in the office of the tax
administrator and shall keep its files in that office. The members of the committee shall not, at any
time, receive an y com pensation as such members or acting members for their services on the
committee. The committee shall be appointed by the Board and shall serve 4- year terms, except
that, the accountant, the attorney, and the operator appointed to the first committee shall serve
3-year terms only.

 5.095  Duties of Committee
 The committee shall have power and its duty shall be:
 (1) To hear and determine appeals of orders or decisions of the tax administrator made upon
petitions for redetermination of tax. The committee may affirm, modify, or reverse such orders or
decisions, or dismiss the appeals, as may be just, and shall prescribe such forms, rules, and
regulations relating to appeals as may be deemed necessary. In the review of the tax administrator
decision or order, the committee may take such evidence and make such investigation as is deemed
necessary. It shall give notice of its determinations in the manner set forth in LCC 5. 055 and shall
file a copy of such determination with the tax administrator with certification thereon of the date of
service thereof. Such determination shall become final 20 days thereafter and shall thereupon
become due and payable subject to interest penalties and enforceable by the tax administrator as set
forth in LCC 5.055.
 (2) To approve, modify, or disapprove all forms, rules, and regulations prescribed by the tax
administrator in the administration and enforcement of this chapter.
 (3) To hear and determine in such manner as shall be just, any protest which may be made
by any person who may be interested, to any form, rule, or regulation approved or prescribed by the
committee.
 (4) To grant for good cause, applications for extensions of time in excess of one month, for
making any return or payment of tax, and to prescribe rules there for.
 (5) To make such investigations as are deemed ad visable regarding the imposition and
administration of the transient lodging tax and report the findings to the Board; to act in an advisory
capacity to the Board on matters pertaining to the transient lodging tax and enforcement problems
and to recommend to the Board the adoption, amendment, or repeal of regulations pertaining
thereto.

 5.100  Appeal to Transient Lodging Tax Review Committee
 Any person aggrieved by any decision of the tax administrator may appeal to the Transient
Lodging Tax Review Committee by filing notice of appeal with the tax administrator within 20
days of the serving or mailing of the tax notice of a decision given by the tax administrator. The tax
2018 LCC CHAPTER 5 -- PAGE 13

administrator shall fix a time and place for hearing such appeal and shall give the appellant 20-days'
written notice of the time and place of hearing.

 5.105  Violations
 It is unlawful for any operator to fail to regi ster, furnish any required return, furnish a
supplemental return, or other data required by the tax administrator, or to render a false or
fraudulent return. No person required to make, render, sign, or verify any report shall make any
false or fraudulent report, with intent to defeat or evade the determ ination of any amount due
required by this chapter.

 5.110  Penalties
 In addition to the collection proceedings which are provided for in LCC 5.065, the failure to
comply with the transient room tax of this chapter shall be punishable pursuant to LCC chapter 10.

[1982 o.171 §1]

2018 LCC CHAPTER 5 -- PAGE 14

WASTE OR ABANDONMENT OF TAX FORECLOSED REAL PROPERTY

5.200  Procedure for Early Termination of Property Tax Foreclosure Redemption
Period for Waste or Abandonment
(1) Pursuant to ORS 312.122, County Counsel may initiate proceedings before the Board
of Commissioners to require the Lincoln County Tax Collector to deed to the County, pursuant to
ORS 312.200, any real property foreclosed by the County under ORS 312.100 after the
expiration of the 30-day period provided in subsection (2) of this section if:
(a) The property is subjected to waste which results in a forfeiture to the County of the
right to possession of the property under ORS 312.180; or
(b) The property is not occupied by the owner or any person or entity that appears in the
records of the County to have a lien or other interest in the property for a period of six
consecutive months, and the property has suffered a substantial depreciation in value or will
suffer a substantial depreciation in value if not occupied.
(2)(a) If property is believed to be subject to waste or abandonment as provided in
subsection (1) of this section, County Counsel may set a hearing for the purpose of determining
whether the property should be deeded to the County pursuant to subsection (1) of this section.
(b) The owner and any person or entity that appears in the records of the County to have a
lien or other interest in the property shall be given an opportunity to be heard at the hearing
provided in paragraph (a) of this subsection.
(c) If the Board determines after the hearing provided in paragraph (a) of this subsection
that the property is subject to waste or abandonment as provided in subsection (1) of this section,
the Board shall provide that any rights of possession the owner may have  in the property are
forfeited and direct the property be deeded to the county by the Lincoln County Tax Collector
after expiration of a period of 30 days from the date of the action of the Board unless it is sooner
redeemed by the owner or any person or entity that then appears in the records of the county to
have a lien or other interest in the property.  Pursuant to ORS 312.122(2)(c), all rights of
redemption with respect to the real property described in that deed shall terminate on the
execution of the deed to the County.
(3) Not less than 30 days prior to the hearing provided in subsection (2) of this section,
County Counsel shall notify the owner and any person or entity that then appears in the records
of the county to have a lien or other interest in the property of the hearing. The notice shall
contain:
(a) The date, time and place of the hearing provided for in subsection (2) of this section;
(b) The date of the judgment and decree;
(c) The normal date of expiration of the period of redemption under ORS 312.120;
(d) Warning to the effect that if the Board determines that the property is subject to waste
or abandonment as provided in subsection (1) of this section, the property will be deeded to the
County immediately after the expiration of 30 days  from the date of the Board action, and that
every right or interest of any person in the property will be forfeited forever to the County unless
the property is redeemed within that 30-day period;
(e) A legal description of the property and a tax account number; and
(f) The name of the owner as it appears on the latest tax roll.
(4) The notice required to be given under subsection (3) of this section shall be given by
both certified mail and by regular first class mail.
2018 LCC CHAPTER 5 -- PAGE 15

(5)(a) If the notice required under subsection (3) of this section is to be given to an owner,
the notice shall be addressed to the owner or owners, as reflected in the county deed records, at
the true and correct address of the owner as appearing on the instrument of conveyance under
ORS 93 .260, or as furnished under ORS 311.555, or as otherwise ascertained by the Lincoln
County Tax Collector pursuant to ORS 311.560.
(b) If the person or entity to whom the notice is required under subsection (3) of this
section to be given is a lienholder, or person or entity other than the owner, having or appearing
to have a lien or other interest in the property, the notice shall be addressed to the lienholder,
person or entity at the address which the County knows or after reasonable inquiry, has reason t o
believe to be the address at which the lienholder, person or entity will most likely receive actual
notice.
(6) Pursuant to ORS 312.122(6), for purposes of subsection (5)(b) of this section, if the
lienholder is a corporation or a limited partnership, County Counsel shall be considered to have
made reasonable inquiry if the notice is mailed to the registered agent or last registered office of
the corporation or limited partnership, if any, as shown by the records on file in the office of the
Corporation Commissioner (the Corporations Division of the Oregon Secretary of State) or, if the
corporation or limited partnership is not authorized to transact business in this state, to the
principal office or place of business of the corporation or limited partnership.
 (7) As used in this section, "records of the County" has that meaning given in ORS
312.125 (7).
[2003 o.422 §2]
2018 LCC CHAPTER 5 -- PAGE 16

MARIJUANA TAX

5.305   Definitions
As used in LCC 5.305 to 5.315, unless the context requires otherwise:
(1) “Marijuana items” has the meaning given that term in ORS 475B.015(16).
(2) “Marijuana retailer” means a person who sells marijuana items to a consumer in this
state.
(3) “Retail sale price” means the price paid for a marijuana item, excluding tax, to a
marijuana retailer by or on behalf of a consumer of the marijuana item.

5.310  Tax Imposed
As described in ORS 475B.345, Lincoln County hereby imposes a tax of 3 percent on the
retail sale price of marijuana items by a marijuana retailer in the unincorporated area of Lincoln
County.
5.315 Collection
 The tax shall be collected at the point of sale of a marijuana item by a marijuana retailer
at the time at which the retail sale occurs and remitted by each marijuana retailer that engages in
the retail sale of marijuana items.
[2016 o.488 §1, adopted by voters November 8, 2016]

5.320 Interest and Penalty
 (1) Interest shall be added to the overall tax amount due at the same rate established under
ORS 305.220 for each month, or fraction of a month, from the time the return to the Oregon
Department of Revenue was originally required to be filed by the marijuana retailer to the time of
payment.
(2) If a marijuana retailer fails to file a return with the Oregon Department of Revenue or
pay the tax as required, a penalty shall be imposed upon t he marijuana retailer in the same
manner and amount provided under ORS 314.400.
(3) Every penalty imposed, and any interest that accrues, becomes a part of the financial
obligation required to be paid by the marijuana retailer and remitted to the Oregon Department of
Revenue.
(4) Taxes, interest and penalties transferred to Lincoln County by the Oregon Department
of Revenue will be distributed to the County’s general fund.
(5) If at any time a marijuana retailer fails to remit any amount owed in taxes, inte rest or
penalties, the Oregon Department of Revenue is authorized to enforce collection on behalf of the
County of the owed amount in accordance with ORS 475B.700 to 475B.755, any agreement
between the Oregon Department of Revenue and Lincoln County under ORS 305.620 and any
applicable administrative rules adopted by the Oregon Department of Revenue.
[2017 o.493 §1]