MALHEURCOUNTY,OR                             2014-0768
                                                                             MRORDINANCE                  93/43/2014 1:24:50 PM
                                                                             Cnt=1        Pgs=3                                      NO FEE

                                                                                  00022546201 400007680030035
                                                                             |, Deborah    R. DeLong,   County   Clerk for Malheur
                                                                             County, Oregon certify that the instrument identified
                                                                             herein was recorded in the Clerk records.
                                                                                     Deborah R. DeLong - County Clerk

                        IN THE COUNTY COURT FOR MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON

An Ordinance Relating to Medical Marijuana                  )

Facilities; Establishing New Malheur County Code            ) Ordinance No. 206

Title 3 Chapter 14; And Declaring an Emergency              )

WHEREAS, during the 2013 Special Session, the Oregon Legislature passed HB 3460, which allows for the
establishment and licensing of medical marijuana facilities; and

WHEREAS, the Oregon Health Authority is charged with formulating administrative rules governing the
licensing of medical marijuana facilities and began accepting application for their operation in March,
2014; and

WHEREAS, the Federal Controlled Substances Act, 21 USC § 801, et seq., establishes cannabis
(marijuana) as a Schedule | controlled substance, a category reserved for substances with no currently
accepted medical uses in the United States, a lack of accepted safety protocols for use under medical
supervision, and possessing a high potential for abuse; and

WHEREAS, Malheur County requires each development, business and land use application to be
consistent with all applicable state and federal laws and regulations; and

WHEREAS, Malheur County will not grant or imply approval to activities that are in violation of federal
law as it may open the County to civil/and or criminal liability from the United States government; and

WHEREAS, ORS 475.314 (1) insofar as that provision authorizes the transfer of medical marijuana, is
likely preempted by federal law and may be unenforceable; and

WHEREAS, Malheur County currently finds that the medical marijuana card program has been abused
and distorted by improper and lax distribution of medical marijuana cards; and

WHEREAS, Malheur County is a governing body and political subdivision of the state of Oregon having
the authority that the constitution, statutes, and common       law of the United States and this State
expressly or implicitly grant or allow over the affairs of its County; and
WHEREAS, notice of this ordinance was published in the Malheur Enterprise on March 5, 2014, the
Argus Observer on March 6, 2014 and posted in the Malheur County Courthouse, Malheur County
Justice Court and Vale City Hall more than one week prior to March 12, 2014.

NOW THEREFORE, THE MALHEUR COUNTY COURT ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1:     Malheur County Code Title 3 Chapter 14 is added to the Malheur County Code to read
               as follows:

               Title: Medical Marijuana Facilities

               Purpose and Intent: The purpose of this Section is to prohibit medical marijuana
               facilities licensed by the State of Oregon from operating within Malheur County.

               Definitions: Except where the context specifically requires otherwise, as used in this
               Chapter, the following words and phrases mean:

               (A)    “Building” means any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, for the
                     housing, shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels, or property of any kind.

               (B) “Location” means any parcel of land, whether vacant or occupied by a building,
                   group of buildings, or accessory buildings, and includes the buildings, structures,
                     yards, open spaces, lot width, and lot area.

               (C)   “Medical marijuana facility” means a medical marijuana facility licensed by the
                     State of Oregon under HB 3460 and/or ORS 475.300-475.346, including future
                     amendments thereto.

               (D) “Structure” means anything which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of
                   any kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts joined
                   together in some definite manner.

               Prohibited Activities and Moratorium:       It is unlawful to establish, operate, use, or cause
               or permit the establishment, operation, or use of a medical marijuana facility within
               Malheur County. There is a moratorium on the operation of any medical marijuana
               facility in any area subject to Malheur County jurisdiction.

               County Employees Have No Authority to Permit Medical Marijuana Facilities. The use
               of any building, structure, location, premises, or land for a medical marijuana facility is
               not currently enumerated in the Malheur County Code as a permitted use in any zoning
               district. Neither the Planning and Zoning Director nor any county employees is
               authorized to determine or permit the use of any building, structure, location, premises,
               or land as a medical marijuana facility in any zoning district.

               Violations.

               (A)    A person who violates this Chapter commits a Class A civil infraction and shall be
                     subject to a fine of up to $500. Each violation, and each date that a violation
                     continues, constitutes a separate civil infraction.

                                                                             2014-0768                 Pa
                                                                             MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON
                                                                                                            9° 2 of 3
                      (B) The civil infraction procedures in the Malheur County Code under the jurisdiction of
                          the Malheur County Justice Court apply to the prosecution of any violation of this
                          Chapter.

                      (C) The fine or civil penalty above is not exclusive and is in addition to any other right or
                          remedy provided by law.

SECTION 2:            Severability. Each section of this ordinance and any part thereof, are severable. If any
                      part of this ordinance is held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder
                      of this ordinance shall remain in full force and effect.

SECTION 3:            Emergency. With the state issuing licenses to medical marijuana facilities beginning
                      March 2014, this ordinance is necessary for the immediate protection of the public
                      peace, health, safety and welfare and shall take effect immediately upon adoption.

                                          Hy

DATED AND ADOPTED this              \ a        day of March 2014.

 Coscia
County Judge Dan P. Joyce

     /
  haces                   =e

County Commissioner Don Hodge

XG.         Ated,     tit      Oe

County Co           issioner Larry Wilson

                                                                                                        Page 3 of 3
                                                                              2014-0768
                                                                                           TY, OREGON
                                                                              MALHEUR COUN