MALHEUR COUNTY
POLICY   AND     INFORMATION            MANUAL

           FOR     EMPLOYEES

               EFFECTIVE JANUARY 2003
INTRODUCTION

Welcome to Malheur County.

Malheur County was established on February 17, 1887. It is the second-largest county in
Oregon. Malheur County’s governing body is the Malheur County Court comprised of
one county judge and two county commissioners. Other elected officials for Malheur
County are the Sheriff, District Attorney, Justice of the Peace, Treasurer, Clerk and
Assessor. Several departments report directly to the Malheur County Court which
includes the Health Department, Juvenile Department, Administration, Planning and
Zoning, Environmental Health, County Counsel, Road Department, Surveyor, Economic
Development, Information Services, Veteran’s Service, and Weed Control.

              Thank you to Barbara Belnap, Environmental Health Clerk, for designing the cover of this Manual.
ABOUT THIS MANUAL

To help acquaint you with Malheur County’s organization, this Employee Policy and
Information Manual (Manual) has been prepared as a guide to policies, procedures,
benefits and practices of Malheur County. Please familiarize yourself with its contents
and keep it handy as a periodic reference. You may want to share it with your family
members so that they will understand your work environment and particular benefits.

By its nature, this Manual contains only general information and guidelines. This
Manual cannot and does not address every possible situation or question about
employment related matters with Malheur County. For this reason, if you have any
questions, need more detail or have suggestions for this Manual, please speak with your
supervisor or the Malheur County Personnel Officer.

This Manual is effective January 1, 2003. Please be aware that any oral statements or
representations cannot change or alter the provisions of this Manual.

This Manual and the personnel policies contained within it can be modified, revoked or
added to at any time at the sole discretion of the Malheur County Court through the
Administration/Personnel office.

We recognize that employees differ in their skills, goals, perceptions and values and that
conditions may arise because of their diversity which may not be sufficiently addressed
within this Handbook or which may result in conflict. When that occurs Malheur County
will endeavor to make decisions that are fair and equitable, while at all times ensuring
that the best interests of Malheur County are served.

Many provisions in this Manual do not apply to elected officials, part-time or grant
funded employees.   Some subjects described in this Manual such as benefit plan
information are covered in detail in official policy documents. You should refer to these
documents for specific information since this Manual only briefly summarizes those
benefits. Please note that the terms of the written insurance policies are controlling.
Should you have any questions or need further detail, please speak with your supervisor
or Personnel Officer.

This Manual does not confer any contractual right, express or implied, to remain an
employee of Malheur County. This Manual does not guarantee any fixed terms and
conditions of employment. For union and contract employees, in the event of a
direct conflict between this Manual and a collective bargaining agreement or
individual contract, the collective bargaining agreement or individual contract will
control. All other employees are "employees at- will”, which means that
employment is not for any specific time and you may be terminated by Malheur
County, or you may resign, with or without reason or notice at any time.
MALHEUR   COUNTY POLICY AND INFORMATION MAUNUAL

Section                           Content

100                               Personnel Policies

200                               Compensation

300                               Benefits, Leaves and
                                  Insurance

400                               Health and Safety

500                               Forms
                                  SECTION 100
                              PERSONNEL POLICIES
                                 Table of Contents

100-   Equal Opportunity

101-   Prohibition of Harassment Including Sexual Harassment and
       Anti-Discrimination Policy

102-   Americans With Disabilities Act                              22

103-   Personnel Files                                              23

104-   Internet, Electronic Mail, Text Messaging and Social Media   24
       Acceptable Use and Retention Policy

105-   Computer Policy                                              Bl

106-   Travel and Employee Incurred Expenses                        34

107-   Use of County Vehicles                                       36

108-   Prohibited Political Activity                                40

109-   Ethics                                                       4]

110-   Employment At- Will                                          42
111-   Telephones                                                   43

112-   Refer to Policy 313-Workers’ Compensation Insurance

113-   Intentionally Left Blank

114-   Classifications of Positions                                 44

115-   Personal Property in the Workplace                           47

116-   Data Technology Purchasing Policy                            48

117-   Separation From Employment                                   50
118-   Whistleblower Protection Policy   53

119-   Veterans’ Preference              57
100   - EQUAL OPPORTUNITY

       Policy Statement.

       It is the policy of Malheur County to provide equal opportunity to all persons in
       matters affecting, but not limited to recruitment, employment, compensation,
       benefits, promotions, training, discipline, transfer and layoff practices without
       regard to a person’s race, color, religion, national origin, mental or physical
       disability, sex (including pregnancy, gender identity, and sexual orientation),
       marital status, age, if the individual is 18 or older, association with protected class
       or genetic information.

       All benefits, activities, facilities, services and training programs operated,
       sponsored, or participated in by the County shall be available to individuals
       without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, disability, sex (including
       pregnancy, gender identity, and sexual orientation), marital status, age, if the
       individual is 18 or older, association with protected class or genetic information.

       Individuals who believe they have been subjected to discrimination or harassment
       shall be entitled, as a matter of right, to use any and all existing complaint
       procedures without fear of coercion or reprisal.

       Intent

       Malheur County’s Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Policy and Prohibition
       of Harassment Including Sexual Harassment and Anti-Discrimination Policy are
       positive policies intended to provide equal opportunity and treatment to
       individuals.

       Policy Dissemination

       In order to properly install provisions of this Equal Employment Opportunity and
       Prohibition of Harassment Including Sexual Harassment and Anti-Discrimination
       policies, it is necessary that all employees, prospective employees, the community
       at large and all contractors and subcontractors be informed of the County’s
       policies. Therefore, the following internal and external dissemination shall occur:

       Internal Dissemination

is     Each employee of the County will receive a copy of the EEO and Prohibition of
       Harassment Including Sexual Harassment and Anti-Discrimination Policy.

Zs     The EEO statement and Prohibition of Harassment Including Sexual Harassment
       and Anti-Discrimination Policy will be included in all applicable County policy
       manuals and reports.
100 — EQUAL    OPPORTUNITY        continued

a:     A non-discrimination clause will be included in all union agreements and all
       contract provisions of collective bargaining unit agreements will be reviewed to
       insure they are non-discriminatory.

4.     All new employees will be informed of the EEO Policy and Prohibition of
       Harassment Including Sexual Harassment and Anti-Discrimination Policy in
       employee orientation and an explanation of the policies shall be included in the
       employee packet.

5      Sessions on harassment including sexual harassment and discrimination will be
       incorporated into supervisory and management training courses as they are
       developed.

       External Dissemination:

Ls     The statement “Equal Opportunity Employer” will be incorporated in all
       advertising and recruitment literature and all other County communications.

2.     Recruitment sources will be informed verbally and in writing of the County’s
       EEO Policy and anti-discrimination policy.

3.     All contractors and subcontractors maintaining contracts with Malheur County
       will be advised in writing of the County’s EEO Policy and Prohibition of
       Harassment Including Sexual Harassment and Anti-Discrimination Policy. An
       anti-discrimination and EEO statement may be incorporated in purchase orders,
       leases and contracts.

Approved:     August 17, 1993
Revised:      April 28, 1999, September 21, 2016.
                                                                          MALHEURCOUNTY,OR                         2016-3049
                                                                          DOCUMENT |                    08/07/2016 11:40 AM
                                                                          Le ee                                         Total:$0.00

                                                                                         202201600030490140
                                                                          1, Deborah R. DeLong, County Clerk for Malheur

                                                                                                                                  Guy.
                                                                          County, Oregon certify that the Instrument identified
                                                                          herein was recorded in the Clerk records.
                                                                                  Deborah R. DeLong - County Clerk

101-    PROHIBITION OF HARASSMENT INCLUDING SEXUAL
        HARASSMENT AND ANTI-DISCRIMINATION POLICY

POLICY STATEMENT

It is the policy of Malheur County to recruit, hire, train and promote all persons in all job
titles and to provide county services to all individuals without regard to race, color,
religion, sex, sexual orientation, national origin, marital status, age, physical or mental
disability, familial status, political affiliation or any other basis or status protected by
applicable state, federal and local laws.

Malheur County employees must be able to work in a setting free from all forms of
unlawful discrimination and harassment.

Harassment and discrimination are unacceptable in the workplace, in any work-related
setting outside of the workplace and when using county owned equipment including
vehicles and electronic devices such as computers, phones, photocopiers and faxes.

Employees who violate this policy are subject to disciplinary action, up to and including
termination.

Every employee shares the responsibility for promptly bringing to the county’s attention
conduct that interferes with providing a work environment free of illegal discrimination
or harassment.

Malheur County complies with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the
Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA) and other applicable federal and state
regulations that prohibit discrimination on the basis of disability. These acts mandate that
no qualified person shall, solely by reason of disability, be denied access to, participation
in, or the benefits of programs, facilities, places of public accommodation, or
employment opportunities of Malheur County.            Each qualified person will receive
reasonable accommodation to ensure equal access to employment, programs, services and
activities of Malheur County in the most integrated setting.

Page - 1 Prohibition of Harassment Including Sexual Harassment and Anti-Discrimination Policy (9/2016)
101-    PROHIBITION OF HARASSMENT INCLUDING SEXUAL
        HARASSMENT AND ANTI-DISCRIMINATION POLICY continued

DEFINITIONS

DISCRIMINATION:           Unequal or different treatment of an individual on the basis of race,
                          color, sex, religion, sexual orientation, national origin, age,
                          disability, political affiliation, marital status or familial status or
                          other protected status in accordance with applicable law.

HARASSMENT:               Harassment is verbal or physical conduct that demeans or shows
                          hostility toward an individual because of his/her race, color,
                          religion, sexual orientation, sex, political affiliation, marital status,
                          familial status, national origin, age or disability or that of his/her
                          relatives, friends or associates that: (1) has the purpose or affect of
                          creating an intimidating, hostile or offensive working environment;
                          (2) has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an
                          individual’s work performance; or (3) otherwise adversely affects
                          an individual’s employment opportunities.

SEXUAL
HARASSMENT:               Sexual harassment is a form of gender (sex) discrimination. The
                          Equal Employment Opportunity Commission has defined sexual
                          harassment as follows:

                          Unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other
                          verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature constitute sexual
                          harassment when (1) submission to such conduct is made either
                          explicitly or implicitly a term or condition of an individual’s
                          employment, (2) submission or rejection of such conduct by an
                          individual is used as the basis for employment decisions affecting
                          such individual, or (3) such conduct has the purpose or effect of
                          unreasonably interfering with an individual’s work performance or
                          creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment.

Page - 2 Prohibition of Harassment Including Sexual Harassment and Anti-Discrimination Policy (9/2016)

                              2016-3049                Page 2 of 14
                              MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON
101-    PROHIBITION OF HARASSMENT INCLUDING SEXUAL
        HARASSMENT AND ANTI-DISCRIMINATION POLICY continued

PROHIBITED
CONDUCT                  (A) Verbal or Physical Conduct

                         (1) Use of epithets or slurs because of race, color, sex, age, sexual
                             orientation, religion, national origin, political affiliation,
                              familial status, marital status, physical or mental disability or
                              other protected status in accordance with applicable law, such
                              as racial slurs or derogatory remarks based on national origin
                              or ethnicity.

                         (2) Jokes, pranks or other banter that are derogatory or show
                             hostility because of race, color, sex, age, sexual orientation,
                             political affiliation, religion, national origin, familial status,
                              marital status, physical or mental disability or other protected
                              status in accordance with applicable law, such as making fun
                              or telling jokes about physical or mental disabilities or sexual
                              orientation; or negative stereotyping.

                         (3) Unwelcome physical touching or contact, such as pinching,
                             grabbing, patting, touching, hugging; threatening, intimidating
                              or hostile acts.

                          (B) Written or Graphic Material

                              Material that is disparaging of or displays hostility on the basis
                              or race, color, sex, age, religion, national origin, sexual
                              orientation, political affiliation, familial status, marital status or
                              physical or mental disability or other protected status in
                              accordance with applicable law and is placed on walls or
                              elsewhere on county premises or circulated in the workplace.
                              This includes sending inappropriate jokes, cartoons,
                              magazines, or other written or graphic materials via e-mail, the
                              internet, facsimile, or downloading from the internet.

Page - 3 Prohibition of Harassment Including Sexual Harassment and Anti-Discrimination Policy (9/2016)

                            2016-3049                 Page 3 of 14
                             MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON
101-    PROHIBITION OF HARASSMENT INCLUDING SEXUAL
        HARASSMENT AND ANTI-DISCRIMINATION POLICY continued

RETALIATION

The county will not tolerate retaliation against any individual who reports discrimination
or harassment, testifies, assists or participates in any manner in such an investigation,
proceeding or hearing, regardless of the outcome of the harassment or discrimination
complaint. Examples of retaliation toward an individual include, but are not limited to:
demotion, suspension, failing to hire or consider hiring, failing to treat impartially when
making employment decisions, assigning the individual the least desirable jobs etc.

PROCEDURE FOR VIOLATIONS

L       Employees are expected to promptly report suspected violations of this policy.

Ze      Any employee who believes he or she has been the subject of harassment or
        discrimination should report the circumstance immediately.

3:      Complaints may be submitted orally or in writing. A complaint may also include
        a suggested method of resolution. An employee does not have to file a formal
        complaint in order to discuss a concern about a situation he/she believes may
        involve discrimination, harassment or retaliation.

4.      A violation of this policy may be reported to:

        (a) A supervisor;
        (b) Department Director/Elected Official;
        (c) Malheur County Court Judge;
        (d) Malheur County Personnel Officer;
        (e) Malheur County Administrative Officer; or
        (f) County Counsel.

Ds      A particular form for a written complaint is not necessary. However, forms are
        attached to this policy for convenience and may be used. Ifa written complaint
        is made, it must be filed with the Personnel Officer after delivery to any person
        identified in 4 above.

6.      All complaints will be promptly investigated.            The individual who receives the
        complaint may discuss options for informally resolving the complaint with the
        complainant.

Page - 4 Prohibition of Harassment Including Sexual Harassment and Anti-Discrimination Policy (9/2016)

                                 2016-3049                Page 4 of 14
                                 MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON
101 -   PROHIBITION OF HARASSMENT INCLUDING SEXUAL
        HARASSMENT AND ANTI-DISCRIMINATION POLICY continued

        Confidentiality will be maintained to the extent possible, consistent with Malheur
        County’s need to conduct an adequate investigation and to take prompt corrective
        action to rectify any harassment or discrimination in violation of this policy,
        which is found to have taken place.

        No employee will suffer any adverse consequences or retaliation as a result of
        acting in good faith to bring a harassment or discrimination complaint or
        participate in an investigation.

        Any employee found in violation of this policy will be subject to discipline, up to
        and including termination.

10.     The foregoing procedure is separate from the grievance procedure under the
        respective collective bargaining agreements with Malheur County Sheriff's
        Association and the Malheur County Employee’s Association under AFSCME.

1h,     Malheur County encourages individuals to use the internal complaint procedure
        for resolution of discrimination and harassment concerns. Individuals also have
        the right to file civil rights complaints with the Oregon Bureau of Labor and
        Industries (BOLI), United States federal Equal Employment Opportunity
        Commission (EEOC) and/or U.S. Department of Labor Civil Rights Center
        (CRC).    Individuals can also consult an attorney for other ways to file a
        discrimination complaint.

REQUESTS FOR REASONABLE ACCOMODATIONS

1;      Requests for reasonable accommodations must be submitted in writing to the
        Malheur County Personnel Officer at Malheur County Courthouse, 251 B. Street
        West #1 or room 104, Vale, Oregon 97918; 541-473-5167;
        Susan.Salove@malheurco.org.

        Malheur County will give serious consideration to an employee or applicant
        requesting reasonable accommodation. Each request will be considered on its
        own merits, in light of the particular job, of other related jobs, of the capabilities
        of a particular employee and the specific accommodation requested.

Approved:        August 17, 1993
Revised:         April 28, 1999; January 2, 2008; November 2, 2011; September 7, 2016

Page - 5 Prohibition of Harassment Including Sexual Harassment and Anti-Discrimination Policy (9/2016)

                                                          Page 5 of 14
                                 2016-3049
                                 MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON
Form

                                Malheur County
                       Sexual Harassment Complaint Form

   1.   Name:

   2. Supervisor's name:

   3. Name of individual engaging in alleged harassment:

   4.   Position and title of individual named in #3.

   5. Complaint’s relationship to individual engaging in alleged harassment:

        Supervisor 0       Co-Worker     O              Other (specify):     O

   6. Please describe the specific act(s) alleged.

   7. Location(s) of alleged incident:

  8. Date(s) and approximate time(s) of incidents:

1 -Sexual Harassment Complaint Form
                                                            2016-3049                Page 6 of 14
                                                            MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON
9. Are there others who have witnessed this behavior or others who
experienced similar behavior by the individual named above? If so, please
provide their names(s), indicate if witness or individual with similar experience.

10. Did you tell anyone about your experience after the alleged incident(s)?                  If
so, please provide name(s) and phone number(s).

11. Actions taken, if any, to attempt to stop the harassment.

12. Have you reported this incident to anyone else?

    Yes 0            No O

    If yes, withwhom?       UnionO       AttorneyO      SupervisorO              Other    O

13. What resolution or proposed action would you like to occur to resolve or
address the harassment?

14. Has there been a personal relationship between you and the accused in the
past?
            Yes    O         No O
      If yes, for how long, when, and how did the relationship end?

2 -Sexual Harassment Complaint Form                   2016-3049                  Page 7 of 14
                                                      MALHEUR COUNTY,   OREGON
15.   Additional information and comments:

16.   Have you received a copy of the County’s Sexual Harassment Policy?
           Yes O          Noo

         If no, please contact the Personnel Officer immediately at: 473-5167.

 Date:

 Signature:
               Your signature certifies that the information on this form is true and
               accurate.

  3 -Sexual Harassment Complaint Form                  crt     aan Kea         =
      Malheur County Internal Discrimination/ Harassment Complaint Form

Instructions
Use this form to file a complaint of discrimination/harassment under any of Malheur
County’s programs.

Definitions
Discrimination Complaint:       Alleges an action was motivated by discrimination.

Discrimination: Unequal or different treatment on the basis of a protected category
established by policy or law.

Harassment:      Verbal or physical conduct that is derogatory or shows hostility based on a
protected category.

Sexual Harassment: Any unwelcome conduct including but not limited to sexual
advances, request for sexual favors and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual
nature that has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an employee’s
work, is the basis for an employment decision or creates an intimidating, hostile or
offensive work environment.

Confidentiality Notice
The authority for collecting this information comes from Malheur County’s commitment
to provide its employees with a workplace that is free of illegal bias, prejudice and
harassment. The information obtained by this form is used to process complaints and
conduct investigations of alleged violations of the County’s policies. The information
collected may be verified with others who may have knowledge relevant to the
complaint. Failure to provide complete information may impede the investigation process
and the action that can be taken on your behalf to resolve the issues associated with the
complaint.     Furthermore, failure to use the internal complaint process may impact your
rights to take any legal action on the complaint or associated issues. Alternatives to filing
an internal complaint may also be available under applicable collective bargaining
agreements. External resources for filing complaints include the State of Oregon Bureau
of Labor and Industries Civil Rights Division and the United States Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission.

Page - 1 Discrimination/Harassment Complaint Form                  2016-3049                    Page 9 of 14
                                                                   MALHEUR   COUNTY,   OREGON

                                                                                                               Ilo
Non-Retaliation
Malheur County policies require its managers and supervisors to take all necessary steps
to assure that there is no retaliation against any person who files a complaint or assists in
its investigation. This includes any intimidation, threat, coercion or discrimination. Any
employee involved in retaliatory conduct will be subject to disciplinary action in
accordance with personnel policy or appropriate collective bargaining agreement.

Prompt filing.
In order to investigate complaints in a timely manner, Malheur County suggests that
complaints be filed within 30 days of the event that gave raise to the complaint.

Complainant Information:

1. Today’s Date:

2. Your Name:

3. Persons Alleged to have discriminated or harassed you:

4. List of Witnesses. Next to each name briefly describe type of information witness can
provide:

Page - 2 Discrimination/Harassment Complaint Form                2016-3049            Page 10 of 14
                                                                 MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON

                                                                                                      a
5. List date(s) of each alleged discriminatory/harassing act(s):

6. Check the category or categories you believe to be the basis of the
discrimination/harassment against you. If you believe that there is more than one basis,
more than one category may be checked:

 Color                     Race   Religion           Disability

 Sex (male or female)                        Political Affiliation   Age

 National Origin           Sexual Orientation                 Sexual harassment

 Marital Status            Familial Status

 Other (please specify):

7. If your complaint is related to race, national origin or religion, please state your group
of identification for which you are alleging race, national origin or religious
discrimination.    For example, White, Latino, Asian, American Indian, Muslim, Jewish etc

Group of identification:

Page - 3 Discrimination/Harassment Complaint Form                    2016-3049                 Page 11 of 14
                                                                      MALHEUR   COUNTY,   OREGON

                                                                                                               1S
8. Check the category or categories below that best represent the area of your concern:

 Accommodation            Layoff            Seniority       Demotion         Termination

 Opportunity      Facility Access           Pregnancy Leave       Training

 Hiring           Job Assignment            Treatment       Work Environment

 Job Benefits     Wages             Religious Observation

Other (please specify):

9. Do you know of any other employee, applicant of individual who was treated in the
same way as you allege you were treated?

          Yes   If yes, include names:

          No
          Don’t know

Page - 4 Discrimination/Harassment Complaint Form                  2016-3049                Page 12 of 14
                                                                       MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON

                                                                                                            14
Statement of Complaint
For each issue above, explain in your statement of complaint how you were discriminated
against, harassed or denied an accommodation.     Describe in detail the alleged
discriminatory/harassing acts. Please include the following points:

*   Why you believe the acts(s) was based on a reason protected by policy or law.
*   Dates, places, names and titles of persons involved and witnesses, if any.
¢   What discriminatory act(s) took place.
*   Describe any explanations, if any, that was offered for the acts that occurred; and
* Any and all information you can provide that supports your allegations.
* If this is a complaint based on disability, describe your request for reasonable
  accommodation and the explanations given regarding your request.

(AN ADDITIONAL SHEET MAY BE ADDED TO PROVIDE FURTHER INFORMATION)

Page - 5 Discrimination/Harassment Complaint Form                 2016-3049            Page teria
                                                                  MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON
10. How would you like the matter resolved?

Signature and Verification
I have reviewed and read this document and to the best of my knowledge all information
it contains is true and correct.

Signature of Complainant                                                          Date

Page - 6 Discrimination/Harassment Complaint Form              2016-3049            Page 14 of 14
                                                               MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON

                                                                                                    7
102-   AMERICANS        WITH DISABILITIES ACT

       Malheur County takes its obligations under the Americans With Disabilities Act
       and applicable state disability and handicap discrimination statutes seriously.
       Malheur County shall comply with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973,
       the American Disabilities Act of 1991 (ADA) and other applicable federal and
       state regulations that prohibit discrimination on the basis of disability. These acts
       mandate that no qualified person shall, solely by reason of disability, be denied
       access to, participate in, or the benefits of any program or employment
       opportunity operated by Malheur County.

       Employees must, however, be able to perform the essential functions of their jobs.
       It is not illegal discrimination to require that all employees, including those with
       disabilities, be able to perform the essential functions of their jobs or jobs for
       which they apply,

       It is Malheur County’s prerogative and responsibility to define job functions.

       Each qualified person shall receive reasonable accommodation to ensure equal
       access to employment, programs and activities, in the most appropriate integrated
       setting. When an employee or applicant requests reasonable accommodation,
       Malheur County gives serious consideration to the possibility of special
       arrangements such as allowing the employee to use special equipment. Each
       request for reasonable accommodation will be considered on its own merits, in
       light of the particular job, of other related jobs, of the capabilities of a particular
       employee and the specific accommodation requested. If Malheur County makes
       accommodation to the needs of a particular employee, Malheur County does not
       make any commitment that these special arrangements are permanent or they
       automatically will be extended to any other employee. Rather, Malheur County
       must maintain flexibility to reorganize work and to redefine job requirements in
       light of overall needs of its business.

       Violations of this policy and requests for reasonable accommodations should be
       made in writing to the Personnel Officer at 251 B. Street West, Vale, Oregon
       97918.

       Approved:       August 17, 1993
       Revised:        April 28, 1999

                                                                                                 22
103-   PERSONNEL FILES

       Malheur County shall maintain personnel files for each employee in the
       Administration Office. These files shall be the official repositories of all
       materials relevant to the employee’s employment with Malheur County,
       including, but not limited to, payroll changes and authorizations, benefit
       memberships, evaluations, employment application and written discipline.
       Medical records are maintained in a separate file from the employee’s personnel
       file.

       Personnel files shall be open for inspection by the employee, such other persons
       officially designated in writing by the employee, the employee’s supervisor,
       County Administrator, Personnel Officer, County Counsel, attorneys hired by
       Malheur County, the Malheur County Court, other supervisors or administrators
       of the County who are assigned to review or place materials therein, and such
       other clerical personnel whose duty it is to maintain personnel files provided such
       access does not conflict with ORS 192.500.       Inspections will be made in the
       Administrative Office. Certified copies of personnel records can also be made at
       $.25 a page. Requests for inspection or photocopying will be made within 45
       days from the date of the request.

       Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent or restrict administrators, supervisors
       and the Personnel Officer from maintaining working files which shall be deemed
       personal to the administrator, supervisor or Personnel Officer as part of their work
       product.

       Approved:      January 1, 2003
       Revised:       January 2, 2008

                                                                                              23
104—   INTERNET, ELECTRONIC MAIL, TEXT MESSAGING AND SOCIAL MEDIA
       ACCEPTABLE USE AND RETENTION POLICY

       PURPOSE
       Malheur County recognizes the use of the Internet, electronic mail (e-mail), text
       messaging and social media to support the mission and business of the County. These
       forms of County technology will be used in accordance with all applicable Federal, State
       and local laws. This policy addresses the use, retention and management of this
       technology on County equipment and devices and when utilized by County employees
       during the performance of their official duties. This policy does not apply to private use
       of employee-owned equipment and devices or employee’s private use of his/her own
       Internet, cell phone or e-mail services.

       DEFINITIONS
       Electronic mail (e-mail) refers to messages and files that are created and sent or received
       electronically.

       Instant Messaging refers to real-time text communications between or among computers
       or mobile devices over the Internet or functionally similar communications network (i.e.
       Spark, the internal instant messaging program used by county).

       Public Record has the meaning established in ORS 192.005. In general it refers to
       information that is prepared, owned, used or retained by Malheur County, its offices and
       departments; relates to any activity, transaction or function of a county office or
       department; and is necessary to satisfy the fiscal, legal, administrative or historical
       policies, requirements or needs of the county office or department.

       Social Media refers to web-based and mobile communication technologies that allow the
       creation or exchange of user-generated content such as comments or responsive postings.
       Examples of social media as of the time this policy is adopted include but are not limited
       to Twitter, Flickr, blogging sites, Facebook, YouTube and Instagram.

       Text Messaging refers to messages exchanged between fixed-line phones or mobile
       phones and fixed or portable devices over a network. Excluded from the definition of
       “text message” is e-mail communications, whether such messages are exchanged among
       or between county e-mail accounts or e-mail accounts maintained by private entities.

                                                     MALHEURCOUNTY,OR                        2016-4282
                                                    SOCUMENT cae                  11/30/2016 11:35 AM
                                                    Cnt=1 Pgs=7                             Total:$0.00

                                                         00039787 201600042820070070
                                                    |, Deborah R. DeLong, County Clerk for Malheur
                                                    County, Oregon certify that the instrument identified
                                                    herein was recorded in the Clerk records.               ef
                                                            Deborah R. DeLong - County Clerk

                                                                                                                 24
104—   INTERNET, ELECTRONIC MAIL, TEXT MESSAGING AND SOCIAL MEDIA
       ACCEPTABLE USE AND RETENTION POLICY continued

       BUSINESS PURPOSE ONLY
       County Internet, e-mail, and social media may be used for County business on County-
       owned equipment and devices by employees with approval from their supervisor, elected
       official or department head. Use of County Internet, email and social media is permitted
       in cases where such use is both suitable for business purposes and support the goals and
       objectives of the County. Use of County technology and County property/devices is a
       privilege and not a right. Inappropriate use will result in a cancellation of those
       privileges and possible disciplinary or legal proceedings. Examples of inappropriate
       employee use of County technology and devices include, but are not limited to, the
       following:

       a. Conducting illegal activities
       b. Accessing, disseminating or downloading sexually explicit material
       c. Gambling
       d. Soliciting for personal gain or profit
       e. Revealing or publicizing proprietary or confidential information
       f. Representing personal opinions as those of the County
       g. Using or posting profanity, obscenity, or language which is patently offensive
       h. Uploading or downloading commercial software in violation of its copyright
       i. Downloading software or electronic files without reasonable virus protection measures
       Jj. Intentionally interfering with the normal operations of the County computer systems
        k . Electioneering

       ZERO TOLERANCE/CONSEQUENCES
       Employees are strictly prohibited from using County cell phones, Internet or e-mail
       accounts or County property and devices for conducting illegal activities; accessing,
       disseminating or downloading sexually explicit material; gambling; soliciting for
       personal gain or profit; using or posting profanity, obscenity or language which is
       patently offensive and intentionally interfering with the normal operations of the County
       computer systems. Violations of this zero tolerance statement will result in termination
       from employment with the County. All other violations that are not specifically listed
       above may result in discipline up to and including termination.

                                          2016-4282                 Page 2 of 7
                                           MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON

                                                                                                   a5
104—   INTERNET, ELECTRONIC MAIL, TEXT MESSAGING AND SOCIAL MEDIA
       ACCEPTABLE USE AND RETENTION POLICY continued

       HARASSMENT
       To maintain a professional working environment consistent with the County’s non-
       harassment policy, users of County technology and County property/devices/equipment
       are prohibited from sending or displaying messages or images that are reasonably vulgar,
       libelous, patently offensive, sexually explicit, or that intimidate, threaten, demean or
       harass individuals or groups, or that would otherwise bring discredit to the County.
       Should employees receive material, such as a message, picture or suggestion that is
       offensive, tell the originator that the material is unwelcome and offensive. Ask that no
       more material be sent. If the originator continues please submit your complaint in
       writing to the County Administrative Offices. Malheur County’s anti-harassment policy
       fully applies to employees in their use of the County’s technology or County equipment
       and devices.

       ELECTRONIC MASS MAILINGS/PUBLISHED INFORMATION
       Mass electronic mailings to the entire County staff for non-County purposes must have
       the approval of the County Administrative Officer. Other than routine maintenance of
       calendars, minutes, etc., any information that pertains to County business to be published
       on the Internet must be approved by the employee’s supervisor. This includes but is not
       limited to web pages, forms, and applications.

       E-MAIL
       Official county-issued e-mail accounts shall be primarily used for communications
       regarding official county business and virtually all e-mail messages composed or sent
       using employee’s County- issued equipment and/or email addresses are assumed to be
       public records. Personal use of County e-mail accounts shall be limited, and must not: (1)
       interfere with normal business activities; (2) be associated with any outside for-profit
       business activity; or (3) otherwise contain any content that would cause embarrassment to
       the County.

       Personal email accounts should not be used for county business. County e-mail accounts
       are available through the County Information Services (IS) department and can be
       accessed over the Internet. If personal e-mail accounts must be used, employees must
       copy their official e-mail accounts on all such outgoing communications, and forward
       any received messages on which their official accounts are not copied. Personal e-mail
       accounts (addresses) used for communications related to county business may be subject
       to search and production.

                                        2016-4282                Page 3 of 7
                                        MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON

                                                                                                  2G
104—-   INTERNET, ELECTRONIC MAIL, TEXT MESSAGING AND SOCIAL MEDIA
        ACCEPTABLE USE AND RETENTION POLICY continued

        PUBLIC RECORDS AND RETENTION                   OF EMAIL
        Electronic mail messages on County equipment or technology are public records.        As
        such, they are subject to the same rules for public inspection and retention that apply to
        all other County records.

               Responsibilities as a Public Employee To Retain Email
               County employees have an obligation to apply the appropriate retention rules to
               electronic mail sent and/or received by the employee. Electronic mail records and
               documents attached to email have the same retention rules as other written
               records consistent with Oregon Secretary of State Record Retention Schedules
               (ie. OAR Chapter 166, Division 150 ), County policy (i.e. Malheur County
               Sheriff Policy 2.12) or otherwise directed by the employee’s department or office.
               The County IS department backs up and stores County email accounts/messages
               for a limited time based on the capacity of the email server. The County’s email
               backup system is primarily designed for disaster recovery and not for archiving.
               The County IS department does not archive email accounts or messages.
               Retaining email messages when necessary (save to disk, print and file etc.) is the
               responsibility of each County employee.

        INSTANT MESSAGING AND TEXT MESSAGING
        Employees should not use text messages or instant messaging (i.e. Spark) for official
        primary or substantive County business other than for: routine communications that do
        not meet the definition of a “public record”; factual communications where the content is
        already documented in a separate public record; or communications that will be
        documented in a separate public record. For instance, if text messaging and instant
        messaging are used for discussion regarding the primary business of county or
        employee’s work, the text and instant message must be documented and retained as a
        separate public record according to records retention schedules of the employee’s
        department or office. The text message or instant message should be immediately
        converted and saved in a separate public record format (e.g. by forwarding the relevant
        text or instant message to an employee’s official e-mail account). Since Malheur County
        requires that no text or instant message—based public records be created — or if they are
        created, that they be converted and saved in an alternate format, which would serve as the
        official copy of the record, Malheur County IS department does not retain text or instant
        messages.

                                         2016-4282                Page 4 of 7
                                         MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON
                                                                                                     fg
104—   INTERNET, ELECTRONIC MAIL, TEXT MESSAGING AND SOCIAL MEDIA
       ACCEPTABLE USE AND RETENTION POLICY continued

       Examples of Acceptable Uses For Text and Instant Messaging:
       e Scheduling.
       e Requesting a call or email on a matter, without substantive discussion.
       © Requesting or offering logistical assistance (“Can you help me get these boxes to the
         courthouse basement?”).
       e Forwarding any person’s contact information (“I’m at 503-378-6002.”).
       e Explaining your current whereabouts, or inquiring about someone else’s (“We’re in
         the meeting at city hall. Are you in town?”).
       e Describing facts or events that do not relate to the substance of the office’s work
         (“spilled coffee all over myself”), or that have been or necessarily will be separately
         recorded (“Mr. Jones just paid his taxes”).
       e Inquiring about events like those in the previous bullet (“Has Mr. Jones arrived to pay
         his taxes?”).

       SOCIAL MEDIA RETENTION
       Any County business placed on any Social Media platform shall be an accurate copy of
       an official record that is retained elsewhere by a County department or office. Any
       County department or office with an official social media site must ensure that public
       records from the site and accurately captured and retained.

       VOICE MAIL
       Messages on County voicemail are not retained by County’s land-line phone system.
       Employees should contact the County Administrative Offices if they wish to retain voice
       messages.     Email transcriptions of voicemails that are determined to be public records
       will be retained in accordance with records retention schedules and may be subject to
       public disclosure upon request.

       NO EXPECTATION OF PRIVACY/SUPERVISORY ACCESS
       County employees have no right to expect that use of the County Internet, electronic mail
       or county-issued equipment is private. The County has the right to access, monitor and
       record all such usage at any time and without notice. The County may use this
       information in disciplinary or other legal proceedings. The County will randomly audit
       computers and other County devices assigned to employees. Employees are not allowed
       to gain access to another employee’s e-mail files or computer without permission from
       that employee or a supervisor.

                                         2016-4282                Page 5 of 7
                                         MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON
                                                                                                 22
104—   INTERNET, ELECTRONIC MAIL, TEXT MESSAGING AND SOCIAL MEDIA
       ACCEPTABLE USE AND RETENTION POLICY continued

       REQUEST FOR PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
       Upon receipt of a proper request, the County is responsible for making electronic mail
       and other message records available for inspection by the public. If a department or
       office receives a request for release of electronic mail or message records contact County
       Counsel before choosing to release or withhold these records.         Employees should also
       review the Malheur County Public Records Policy.

       It is not the intent of this policy to define public records, retention schedules or to identify
       records which are exempt from disclosure under the Public Records Law. Questions
       concerning the definition of public records or which records are exempt from disclosure
       should be directed to County Counsel.      Questions about the responsibility for record
       retention or record retention schedules should be directed to a supervisor.

       CONSENT FORM REQUIRED
       As a condition of continued employment with the County, employees having access to
       County equipment, devices, systems and technology services will be required to sign the
       acknowledgment form that is attached to this policy. Applicants will be required to sign
       this form upon acceptance of an employment offer by the County.

                                      2016-4282                Page 6 of 7
                                      MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON

                                                                                                     29
104 -INTERNET AND ELECRONIC                  MAIL ACCEPTABLE USE AND RETENTION
POLICY      continued

                   MALHEUR COUNTY EMPLOYEE CONSENT FORM

       I have reviewed Malheur County’s Internet and Electronic Mail Acceptable Use Policy.             I
       understand that all computer equipment, as well as all information transmitted, received,
       or stored in these systems, is the property of the County.

       I understand that such systems are to be used solely for job-related purposes, not for
       personal purposes, and that I have no expectation of privacy in connection with the use of
       this equipment or the transmission, receipt, or information stored in such equipment.

       I understand and agree not to use a code, access a file, or retrieve any stored
       communication unless authorized; and I also acknowledge and consent to the County’s
       monitoring my use of this equipment.

       [ understand that violation of this policy could result in disciplinary action, up to and
       including termination.    I agree to abide by the policy as a condition of continued
       employment with the County.

Print Employee Name

Signature of Employee

Date

Approved:       December 15, 1998
Revised:        April 11, 2002; March 1, 2004; November 30, 2016

                                2016-4282                Page 7 of 7
                                MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON

                                                                                                   40
105 -   COMPUTER POLICY

        Due to the routine use of personal computers in the workplace Malheur County
        Court adopts the following policy:

        1. In an effort to avoid violation of computer software copyright law and possible
        lawsuits a separate software license shall be purchased for each computer or user
        as required, unless a blanket licensing agreement is purchased.

        2. All computer equipment or software purchases shall be reviewed by the
        Manager of Information Systems. Any computer software to be installed on
        County equipment shall be reviewed by the Manager of Information Systems.

        3. Users must avoid spreading computer viruses. Always virus check
        software/files to be installed, read, uploaded or downloaded. If a PC (personal
        computer) does not have virus protection software see the Manager of
        Information Systems about purchasing some.

        4, Manager of Information Systems will back up the files on any servers that are
        located in the computer room in the administrative office. If a server is located in
        another department it shall be the responsibility of that department to be sure that
        the files are adequately backed up. Backing up the files on the local hard drive(s)
        of a PC is the responsibility of the employee/department that uses it. If
        instructions are needed on how to accomplish these tasks please see the Manager
        of Information Systems. A copy of the files should be turned in on a weekly basis
        to be held off-site in case of a disaster.

        5. Security on a computer system is high priority. Users identifying a security
        problem are to notify their supervisor or the Manager of Information Systems
        without demonstrating the problem to other users. Any deliberate attempt to
        degrade or disrupt system or network performance, to bypass security measures,
        or to access files that are not the users may result in disciplinary or legal
        proceedings.

        6. The person in whose name a sign-on name and password is issued is
        responsible for its proper use. Do not use another individual’s sign-on without
        written permission from the individual. If a user knowingly or carelessly makes
        their password available to others, they may still be accountable for any actions
        that may arise from the use of their password by another individual. However,
        passwords are the property of the County and must be made available to either the
        employee’s supervisor or the Manager of Information Systems.

                                                                                               Fall
105-   COMPUTER       POLICY     continued

7. The computer equipment and software being used is County property. No
hardware, software or files are to be taken from department premises other than as
approved by a supervisor for County purposes. Any employee terminating
employment with a County department is prohibited from taking or copying any
computer discs, hard copies, or other information stored on the County’s
equipment.

8. The County reserves the right to monitor or access all computer/network
activities at any time. Employees should not have any expectation of privacy
when using County equipment. Deleting or purging data from the computer does
not necessarily mean that it has been permanently destroyed and/or cannot be
retrieved.

9. As a condition of continued employment with the County, employees having
access to County computer equipment will be required to sign the
acknowledgment form that is attached to this policy. Applicants will be required
to sign this form upon acceptance of an employment offer by the County.

                                                                                     32
105- COMPUTER POLICY continued

                  MALHEUR        COUNTY EMPLOYEE            CONSENT FORM

       I have reviewed Malheur County’s Workplace Computer Policy. I understand
       that all computer equipment, as well as all information transmitted, received, or
       stored in these systems, are the property of the County.

       I understand that such systems are to be used solely for job-related purposes, not
       for personal purposes, and that I have no expectation of privacy in connection
       with the use of this equipment or the transmission, receipt, or information stored
       in such equipment.

       I understand and agree not to use a code, access a file, or retrieve any stored
       communication unless authorized; and I also acknowledge and consent to the
       County’s monitoring my use of this equipment.

       I understand that violation of this policy could result in disciplinary action, up to
       and including termination. I agree to abide by the Workplace Computer policy as
       a condition of continued employment with the County.

Print Employee Name

Signature of Employee

Date

Approved:     December 15, 1998
Revised:      January 1, 2003

                                                                                           a5
                                                               MALHEUR        COUNTY,
                                                                                    OR                  201       6-2708

                                                               MO COMENT                     08/10/2016 01:44 PM
                                                               Cnt=1 Pgs=2                                   Total:$0.00

                                                                    00037715201600 10270: 80020023
                                                               |, Deborah R. DeLong,   County Clerk for Malheur
                                                               County, Oregon certify that the instrument Identified
                                                               herein was recorded in the Clerk records.
                                                                      Deborah R. DeLong - County Clerk

106 - TRAVEL AND EMPLOYEE INCURRED EXPENSES

TRAVEL

     It is the policy of Malheur County that all travel shall be allowed only when the
     travel is essential to the normal discharge of the employee’s responsibilities. All
     travel shall be conducted in the most efficient and cost effective manner resulting
     in the best value to Malheur County. The travel must comply with all
     requirements set forth in this section and must be for official County business
     only.

TRAVEL EXPENSES

     The current approved rates for reimbursement of travel expenses are as set forth
     below.     The employee’s supervisor may approve travel expenses at a higher rate
     for special conferences or meetings.

     Mileage. Mileage for travel in a private automobile, while the employee is acting
     within the scope and course of his/her duties and driving over the most direct and
     usually traveled route, will be reimbursed at a the current IRS rate. To qualify
     for mileage reimbursement when using your private vehicle, the employee must
     be required to use his/her own vehicle to travel to a place other than to his/her
     normal place of work because a county vehicle is not available, the employee
     must hold a valid, current driver’s license for the class of vehicle to be driven and
     the employee must carry personal automobile liability insurance in amounts not
     less than those required by the Oregon Financial Responsibility Law (ORS
     806.060). No mileage reimbursement will be paid for the use of motorcycles or
     mopeds. Whenever an employee chooses to use his/her own vehicle even though
     a County vehicle is available, the employee will be reimbursed the current motor
     pool rate set by the Malheur County Court.

     Per Diem. Per diem expense for a twenty-four (24) hour period, during necessary
     overnight travel while the employee is acting within the scope and course of
     his/her duties will be paid at the rate of $35.00 per day. Current individual rates
     for meals and lodging are as follows:

            Breakfast:              $ 7.00
            Lunch:                  $10.00
            Dinner:                 $18.00
            Lodging:                Employees will be reimbursed the actual cost of
                                    lodging when approved by their supervisor in
                                    advance.   Place of conference, event, meeting, or
                                    other comparable cost for lodging.

                                                                                                                       ot
106-— TRAVEL AND EMPLOYEE INCURRED EXPENSES                            continued

    Additional cost above the per diem limit may be appealed to the County for
    reimbursement and is subject to the County’s approval. Appeals must be
    accompanied by receipts.

    Breakfast and dinner expenses shall be paid only if the employee, while acting
    within the scope and course of his/her duties, is required to travel before 7:00 a.m.
    or after 7:00 p.m. Lunch expense will be paid only if the employee, while acting
    within the course and scope of his/her duties, is required to travel one hour before
    or one hour after the employee’s normal lunch hour. Irrespective of the above
    policy, meals will be paid if they are included in the cost of an employee’s
    training, seminar, conference etc.

    Employees must pay the difference between single and multiple occupancy
    lodging rates when accompanied by a spouse, family member or companion.

    Air Travel and Rental Vehicles. In addition to meals and lodging, travel expenses
    will be reimbursed for airfare, parking, rental vehicles or other transportation
    means, only if the employee is acting within the scope and course of his/her
    employment and approved in advance by the employee’s supervisor.               Receipts are
    required. Employees are limited to mid-size rental vehicles.

    Travel rewards.   Employees traveling on official county business may not earn
    travel rewards for personal use when travel is paid for or reimbursed by the
    County. Travel rewards mean any object of value awarded by a business
    providing commercial transportation or lodging which can be used to reduce
    travel costs. Travel rewards include, but are not limited to airline frequent flyer
    miles and hotel or car rental customer award bonuses, points, free rental days or
    hotel stays. Travel rewards also include airline flight segment certificates or
    dollar bonuses that are offered to a traveler who is voluntarily or involuntarily
    bumped from an oversold flight. If employees do earn travel rewards while
    traveling for County business, the rewards must be applied to County travel in the
    future. Similar inconvenienced customer rewards offered by hotel or car rental
    agencies shall also become the property of the County.          Employees shall account
    and disclose information about reward activity resulting from county travel.           The
    personal use of travel rewards earned while conducting county business
    constitutes a personal gain from county employment and violates ORS 244.040.

    Time period for reimbursement. Requests for reimbursement must be
    accompanied by receipts and turned into the administrative office within 30 days
    from the date of the expense incurred for reimbursement. If a request for
    reimbursement is not made within 30 days, it will be denied.

    Approved/Revised January 1, 2003; November 1, 2004; September 29, 2010;
    September 28, 2011; August 10, 2016.

                             2016-2708                Page 2 of 2
                             MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON                                              45
                                                                                   MALHEUR COUNTY, OR
                                                                                  MRCOUNTY COURT
                                                                                                                           2017-4735
                                                                                  DOCUMENT                         12/20/2017 10:57 AM
                                                                                  Cnt=1 Pgs=4                                    Total:$0.00

                                                                                       0004682 920170 0047350040041
                                                                                  |, Gayle V. Trotter, County Clerk for Malheur County,
                                                                                  Oregon certify that the instrument identified herein was
                                                                                  recorded in the Clerk records.
                                                                                             Gayle V. Trotter - County Clerk
                                                                                                                                             G KY

 107-       USE OF COUNTY VEHICLES

            Employees may use County owned vehicles for County business pursuant to the
            following:

            Employee must have a valid driver’s license and be at least 18 years of age.
Nore

            License must be in good standing. Permits or restricted licenses are not acceptable.
            Employee is required to provide a photocopy of his/her current driver’s license to the
            Personnel Officer to be placed in the employee’s personnel file. Employee authorizes
            Malheur County to obtain employee’s driving record. Driving records will be checked
            upon employment and at the time of a county vehicle incident or accident. Employee will
            sign a release of information, if necessary, for the release of employee’s driving record
            from state or county agencies. Employee is responsible for notifying the Personnel
            Officer of any subsequent restrictions, limitations or other change in his/her driving status
            as soon as possible. Employees must have a driving record acceptable to the County’s
            insurance carrier for the types of driving duties employee will perform. The following
            chart is guideline for evaluating an employee’s Motor Vehicle Record (MVR). An
            employee with a MVR grade of “poor” will possibly not be insurable. Any “major”
            violation is a poor score:

                Motor Vehicle Record (MVR) Grading Criteria (Last 3 Years)

       Minor Violation                               Number of At-Fault Accidents
                                         0               1                             2                                   3
                 0                     Clear        Acceptable                    Borderline                             Poor
                 il                 Acceptable      Acceptable                    Borderline                             Poor
                2                   Acceptable      Borderline                        Poor                               Poor
                3                    Borderline        Poor                           Poor                               Poor
                4                       Poor           Poor                           Poor                               Poor
                                        Poor           Poor                           Poor                               Poor
 Any Major violation

                            Minor Violation                                         Major Violations

 All moving violations not listed as a major violation.               Driving under influence of alcohol/drugs
                                                          eoeeee#ee

                                                                      Failure to stop/report an accident
                                                                      Reckless driving/speeding contest
                                                                      Driving while impaired
                                                                      Making a false accident report
                                                                      Homicide, manslaughter or assault arising out
                                                                      of the use of a vehicle
                                                                      Driving while license is suspended/revoked
                                                             e        Careless driving
                                                             ¢        Attempting to elude a police officer

            1         Use of County Vehicles

                                                                                                                                              Ab
           107 - USE OF COUNTY VEHICLES continued

           Vehicles must be reserved in advance. An employee shall sign out the vehicle he/she will
           be driving. Employees shall put their name, department, and the date in the appropriate
           spot on the mileage sheet and the green card. Employees shall leave the green card in the
           appropriate slot so the administrative office will know who has the vehicle.
           Fuel cards will be issued upon request in the administrative office. If an employee uses
           his/her own money, receipts, travel voucher and requisition are required for
           reimbursement. Fuel cards shall be kept in a safe place by employees to prevent loss or
           theft. Driver is responsible for the return of fuel cards.
           Clipboard mileage logs must be maintained within the vehicle while in use. Mileage
           logs include beginning and ending mileage on each day the vehicle is driven, the number
           of miles, gas and oil purchased and any repairs done while using the vehicle.
           Vehicles must be kept clean at all times. Trash and debris must be picked up before the
           vehicle is returned.
           Vehicles must be fueled before returning the vehicle.     Fuel level must register at least full
           or 4 full on the fuel indicator.
           Smoking and vaping is prohibited.
o°

           Employees are expected to abide by all state and local driving laws. Employee must obey
           all traffic laws, posted signs, signals and requirements applicable to the vehicle being
           operated.   Citations issued to an employee when operating a county vehicle must be
           reported immediately to the Personnel Officer. Citations issued due to the manner in
           which the vehicle was operated or for other violations that are solely within the control of
           the employee, such as failure to wear seatbelt, are the personal responsibility of
           employee.
10.        Malfunctions, repair or maintenance of vehicle must be immediately reported to the
           Personnel Officer.
TL.        Vehicles may not be taken home under any circumstances. Vehicles must be returned to
           or picked up at the Malheur County Courthouse, Community Corrections or Ontario City
           Hall.
12,        Seat belts are to be used in all vehicles.
13;        Every reasonable effort shall be made to operate the vehicle safely, with due regard for
           potential hazards, weather and road conditions. Drivers are to ensure that the use of
           prescribed or over the counter drugs do not interfere with their ability to drive and the
           consumption of alcohol and controlled substances prior to or during the operation of
           vehicles is prohibited.
14.        Passengers may travel with an employee if the employee receives permission from the
           employee’s supervisor and the administration office. Passengers may only accompany
           employees to destinations, meals, events or activities that are within the scope and course
           of employee’s duties. Using a county vehicle for activities and destinations outside the
           scope and course of employment (for example, driving further west to another resort to
           sightsee) may not be covered under the County’s insurance policies and violates the
           Oregon Government Standards and Practices. For these reasons, employees who wish to
           combine personal and business travel should take their own vehicles.
iboe       Only County employees may drive County vehicles.

       2      Use of County Vehicles

                                                  2017-4735                Page 2 of 4
                                                  MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON
                                                                                                     rol.
107-       USE OF COUNTY VEHICLES continued

16.        Oil, water and tire pressure are to be checked by driver every 500 miles. The County
           Shop will service vehicles approximately every 3000 miles.
17.        Local fueling of County vehicles shall be done at the place and in the manner instructed
           by the County Administration Office.
18.        Each County department using a vehicle from the County’s car pool will be billed based
           on the mileage driven.
19,        Use of a County vehicle is a privilege, which may be lost at the sole discretion of the
           County.
20.        Only experienced drivers may operate 15 passenger vans.          Operators of 15 passenger
           vans must be familiar with the handling characteristics of the van, especially when fully
           loaded.

21.        Cell Phone and Other Device Use While Driving. The “hands-on” use of a cell phone
           or other electronic device (i.e. tablet, GPS or laptop) while driving presents a hazard to
           the driver, other employees and the general public. Subject to a few narrow exceptions
           for emergency or public safety purposes, Oregon law prohibits the use of hand-held cell
           phones and other electronic devices while driving, even if the driving is for work-related
           reasons. Therefore, this policy is meant to ensure the safe operation of County vehicles
           and it applies equally to the usage of employee-owned cell phones and phones provided
           by County.

           Employees are prohibited from holding a cell phone or any other electronic device while
           driving/operating a County vehicle.      Should an employee need to make or answer a
           business call while driving, the employee must locate a lawfully designated area to park
           and make/answer the call. Employees may use hands-free cell phones or single-ear
           devices (headphones, earbuds or Bluetooth devices for both ears are prohibited), to
           make/answer business calls. Such calls should be kept short and should the circumstances
           warrant (for example, heavy traffic, bad weather), the employee should locate a lawfully
           designated area to park to continue or make the call, even if the employee is using a
           hands-free device. Being stopped at an intersection or light does is not an exception to
           this policy. Also, note this policy is more restrictive than Oregon state law. A single
           swipe or tap to activate or deactivate a cell phone or other electronic device while
           driving is PROHIBITED          under this policy.   Employees      must locate to a lawfully
           designated area to park in order to activate or deactivate a cell phone or other
           electronic device. In other words, once an employee starts to drive a County vehicle
           a cell phone or other electronic device may not be held or touched regardless of
           whether the device is mounted to the dashboard, window, vent or placed in the
           console, cup holder or seat.

       3      Use of County Vehicles

                                                   2017-4735                Page 3 of 4
                                                   MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON

                                                                                                   5S
107-       USE OF COUNTY VEHICLES continued

           When using a GPS or other navigation application, enter a destination address before you
           begin to drive. If you need to enter an address after you begin driving, pull over and
           legally park before keying in an address.

           Employees     may   listen to music, podcasts,   audiobooks     and streaming    applications on
           devices in a County vehicle as long as listening is “hands-free”.

           Employees     may   use built-in speakers of County vehicles and may hook up/ pair cell
           phones or other devices to a built- in hands-free device within the County vehicle (ie.
           Bluetooth).

22.        When operating your own vehicle for County of Malheur business:
                 mYour Personal Auto Liability insurance is the primary payer.           County’s
                   insurance is in excess of your coverage.
                   m You should carry at least $50,000 per occurrence liability coverage.
                   = County is not responsible for any physical damage to your vehicle.        You
                   must carry your own collision and comprehensive coverage.
                   m Report your mileage for expense reimbursement.
23.        In the event of an accident:
                   m Take necessary steps to protect the lives of yourself and others.
                   = Comply with law enforcement instructions.
                   m Do not assume or admit fault.     Others will determine liability and
                   negligence after a thorough investigation.
                   m Report the accident to County as soon as possible.

Approved:          January 1, 2003
Revised:           January 13, 2010; June 1, 2016; December 20, 2017

       4      Use of County Vehicles

                                                  2017-4735                Page 4 of 4
                                                  MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON

                                                                                                     a
108-          PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY

       Oregon law, at ORS 260.432, provides that “No public employee shall solicit
       money, influence, service or anything of value or otherwise promote or oppose
       any political committee or promote or oppose the nomination or election of a
       candidate, the gathering of signatures on a initiative, referendum or recall petition,
       the adopting of a measure or the recall of a public officer holder while on the job
       or during working hours. However, this section does not restrict the right of a
       public employee to express personal political viewpoints.”

       It is the policy of Malheur County that employees may engage in political activity
       except to the extent prohibited by State law or this policy when on the job during
       working hours.

       Employees who have in-person, regular, frequent or significant contacts with the
       public may not wear campaign buttons, t-shirts, stickers or other apparel or
       accessories that advocate for a political position or candidate, while on the job
       during work hours.

       The Malheur County Courthouse located at 251 B. Street West, Vale, Oregon is a
       polling place. Restrictions from electioneering within the Courthouse and within
       100 feet from any entrance to the Courthouse shall be followed as set forth in
       ORS 260.695.

       Approved:      January 1, 2003
       Revised:       April 7, 2004

                                                                                           Yo
109-         ETHICS

Most Malheur County employees fall within the definition of “public official” and
are therefore subject to Oregon’s “Government Standards and Practices” statutes
regulating the conduct of public officials. All Malheur County employees should
become familiar with these statutes and use them as a guide especially in areas of
conflict of interest and accepting gifts or gratuities. They are found in ORS 244.010
through 244.440. Employees are encouraged to seek assistance from their
supervisor or County Counsel with any legal or ethical concerns.

Employees are expected to use good judgment, adhere to high ethical standards and
avoid situations that create an actual or perceived conflict between their personal
interests and those of Malheur County. Malheur County requires that the
transactions employees participate in are ethical and within the law, both in letter and
In spirit.

Conflicts of interests or unethical behavior may take many forms including, but not
limited to, the acceptance of gifts from competitors, vendors, potential vendors or
customers of Malheur County. Gifts may only be accepted if they have a nominal
value and are given for appropriate occasions (for example, holiday gift).
Employees are prohibited from engaging in financial participation or other business
undertaking that is competitive with, or prejudicial to, the bests interests of Malheur
County. Employees may not use proprietary and/or confidential information for
personal gain or to Malheur County’s detriment.

Approved:         January 1, 2003
Revised:

                                                                                          YI
    110-      “EMPLOYMENT         AT-WILL”

Probationary employees and employees who are not covered under a collective
bargaining agreement are employees “at will”. “Employment at will” means that
employment with the County is not for any specific time and either the County or
employee may terminate the employment relationship at any time, for any reason or no
reason at all. A non-exhaustive list and some examples of employees who serve “at will”
include:

Seasonal employees
Temporary employees
County Counsel
County Administrative Officer
Personnel Officer
Confidential employees
Executive Assistant
Department heads
Assistant directors or department heads
Chief Appraiser
County Surveyor/Engineer
Manager of Information Systems/GIS Coordinator
Supervisors and managers
Management Assistant

Approved:     January 1, 2003
Revised:

                                                                                    aye
111-        TELEPHONES

Policy. County cellular (cell) telephones (phones) may be assigned and purchased at
the discretion of the department head or elected official. Typically, cell phones
should only be used when: (a) the employee has a duty away from the office and
needs to remain in contact with voicemail, other employees or the public to conduct
county business; or (b) the employee is required to respond to after-hour duties and
emergencies or be on call; or (c) carrying a cell phone is a safety issue for the
employee (for example, employee is traveling to a distant area of Malheur County to
conduct county business and use of a landline telephone or public pay phone would
be difficult). County cellular phones are for business purposes only. They are not
to be used for non-work related communications.       Employees should be mindful
that conversations over a cellular phone are not confidential and can be monitored by
outsiders.

Cellular telephones and driving. Unless an emergency exists, using a cellular phone
for voice communication or texting while operating a county vehicle is prohibited,
even if the cellular phone is equipped with a hands-free device. Operation of cellular
phones shall not compromise driving safety. Employees should plan calls or texts
either prior to traveling or while on rest breaks. Cellular phone calls and texts must
be made from a car that is completely stopped and parked in a safe location.

Personal use of county cellular telephones. Personal use of a county cell phone is
not permitted. If an emergency or unforeseen circumstance develops, an employee
may use the county cellular telephone to make a personal call (for example, to let a
family member know the employee will be arriving home late).

Personal cellular telephones. Using personal cellular phones for county business
should be kept to a minimum. Costs of such usage for calls, long distance fees and
roaming charges may be reimbursed if the employee provides a copy of the phone
bill with county calls marked. Ifa personal phone plan has monthly “free” minutes,
county business may be claimed first for any charges above the monthly limit.
Monthly charges shall not be pro-rated for county business.

The County may conduct periodic and random audits of county cell phones and long
distance billings to insure full compliance with this policy.

Land-Line Telephones.   Personal use of land-line phones should be kept to a
minimum. Other than if an emergency or unforeseen circumstance develops, personal
long distance phone calls shall be reimbursed to the County.

Approved:    November 13, 2002
Revised      January 13, 2010

                                                                                   43
                                        INSTRUMENT NO. 2008 +|8
                                        Page 1 of 3. Pages                           F     ula               D
                                                                                                    az
                                                                                                    f “ G8

114 - CLASSIFICATION OF POSITIONS                                                        JAH    ¢                       |

                                                                              DEBORAH R. DELONG County Clerk
                                                                              By           =]       '   a    a    Lle

Classification System                                                          Sw               Orla             cniy
The Personnel Officer shall prepare and maintain a classification system based on an
analysis of organization of departments and the duties and responsibilities of each
position in the County. A classification is a group of positions sufficiently similar in
skills, education/experience, duties, authority, and responsibility to permit grouping
under a common level and which would call for similar qualifications and same schedule
of pay. The purpose of classification is to identify and group similar types and levels of
work into classes, to describe those classes accurately, to ensure the classes are
differentiated so that each position can be allocated appropriately, to provide a
framework for conducting recruitment and selection activities, and to provide a
foundation to identify relationships between and among classifications for fair and
equitable salary administration.

The classification title shall be the official title of every position allocated to the
classification for the purpose of personnel actions and shall be used on all payrolls,
budget estimates and official records and reports relating to the position. Any other
working title desired to be used by a department head or elected official may be used for
internal administration or for contacts with the public.

Classification Review To Higher Classification
The Personnel Officer shall review positions to ensure their appropriate classification.
Positions are classified and not individual employees. Classification reviews may include
but are not limited to: reviews of new positions, reviews resulting from re-organization
changes, reviews initiated by the County Court or Personnel Officer, and reviews
initiated by employees if the review is approved by the employee’s supervisor and
department head or elected official. Employees may not request a classification review
unless they have been in the position twelve (12) months or more. Employees who
request a classification review must make a written request approved by his/her
immediate supervisor and department head/elected official to the Personnel Officer. If
the supervisor or department head/elected official does not approve of the reclassification
request and then the employee will be directed to perform the duties listed within the
scope of the employee’s current position. This directive would then void the
reclassification process for the position and the process would end. If approved by the
department head or elected office, the request must:

        1.       Describe the duties currently being performed.
             '   An explanation of how the duties or job have significantly changed.
        2        Why the duties/job being performed are inconsistent with the current
                 classification.
       4,        An organizational chart of the department or office, approved by the
                 department head or elected official, showing how the reclassified position
                 will fit within the office or department structure.
                                                    INSTRUMENT NO. 2008 —| 8
                                                    Page _.cofak3 Pages

114 ~ CLASSIFICATION OF POSITIONS continued

       as      The employees may be asked to complete a written or oral data collection
               questionnaire by the Personnel Officer
       6.      The Personnel Officer will observe the employee while working (“desk
               audit”).

In order for an employee to be reclassified upward, the following criteria should be met:

       e The employee must meet the qualifications of the reclassified position.
       e The employee has a permanent change in duties — not a special project or short-
       term assignment.
       @ The addition, deletion, or change affects a duty or duties that constitute(s) a
       significant portion of the job. The Fair Labor Standards Act provides that the
       most appropriate classification for a position is when an incumbent performs 75%
       to 80% of duties and responsibilities for that position.
       e The duty or duties which is/are added, deleted or changed is/are substantially
       different in level and type of pay from the balance of the job duties so that it
       seems reasonable that the change in that one duty or duties affect the evaluation of
       the job.
        e The classification is approved by County Administrative Officer based on a
       favorable quantitative evaluation of the job by the Personnel Officer and within
       budget constraints of the department or office.
        @ The request complies with this policy.
        © The effective date for the reclassification is July 1, which is the beginning of a
       new fiscal year. To be considered during a new fiscal year, a completed request
       for reclassification must be received by the Personnel Officer no later than March
       1. An earlier effective date may be approved by the Administrative Officer and
       the County Court.
       e Reclassifications to a higher classification may only be re-submitted after one
       year or more from a previous reclassification request that was denied.

Classification Review To Lower Classification
A change in classification of the position accompanied by assignment to a lower salary is
reclassification to a lower classification. An employee whose position has been
downgraded shall be placed in the position without competing for the position. The
County Court may authorize continuation of the same salary rate as an employee received
prior to downgrading of the position by placing the employee on a “red circle” step. The
employee shall receive no future salary increases until the salary range of the position
exceeds the “red circle” rate.

                                                                                            45
                                                                 INSTRUMENT NO. 2008 ~ [¥
                                                                 Page 3. of   3 Pages

114- CLASSIFICATION OF POSITIONS continued

Classification Review of New Positions
When a new, regular position is approved by the Malheur County Court through the
budget process, the Personnel Officer shall review the proposed duties and
responsibilities to be assigned to the position and place it within the classification system.
(Normally, new positions are only processed during the budget process each fiscal year).

Classification Review Resulting From a Reorganization Of A Department or Office
Whenever a department or office is reorganized, the Personnel Officer. upon consulting
the department head or elected official, shall make a determination as to the need for a
classification review.

A position may be upgraded as a result of a department or office reorganization. When
this occurs, the Personnel Officer in conjunction with the department head or elected
official shall determine the appropriate selection procedure. In determining if recruitment
 shall be promotional only or open-competitive the following shall be considered:
 analysis of job duties, availability of internal applications both within the department or
 office and within all other departments and offices and occupational standards.

Temporarily Working Out Of Classification
Unless otherwise specified by a collective bargaining agreement, employees may be
assigned higher or lower classification duties without change in pay, where periodic or
regular variations in assignments occur because of needs or because of the nature of the
duties or work schedule. Such variations shall be considered as incidental to the position.

The County Court and Administrative Officer may temporarily approve out-of-
classification pay for extenuating circumstances, provided such assignment clearly
encompasses the full scope of duties and responsibilities normally associated with a
higher level classification as confirmed by the Personnel Officer. Approval of
temporary out of classification pay shall not be retroactive.

Approved:       January 2, 2008
Revised:

                                                                                           4/6
                              INSTRUMENT
                                     NO. 2008 ~ ALA                              r     | L         2        D
                              Page _|_ of _[_ Pages                                      «             M

415          PERSONAL PROPERTY IN THE WORKPLACE                                      APR 2, < £008
115.1        Purpose                                                        a    | as rage a eae ari
115.2        Private Property at Work                                                                  KU       Meputy
115.3        Shipping/Delivery of Private Property on County Premises

115.1        Purpose

             The purpose of this policy is to inform employees that the protection of
             personal property brought into the workplace is not the responsibility of
             the County. The policy is meant to clearly delineate the employee's rights
             and obligations when bringing personal property into the workplace so
             that loss or damage of personal property in the workplace can be
             avoided.    This policy does not replace the provision in the Malheur
             County    Sheriff's Association     Collective   Bargaining   Agreement    entitled
             “Replacement of Personal Property”.

115.2        Private Property at Work

             The County does not assume responsibility for any theft or damage to the
             personal belongings of County employees.           The County carries no
             insurance to cover any of these losses. Therefore, the County
             encourages its employees to avoid bringing private articles of property to
             work. The County reserves the right to restrict or limit private property in
             County facilities.   Those who choose to bring personal property onto
             County premises or County-leased premises should contact their
             insurance agent to be certain their property is properly insured. It may be
             desirable for personal property brought onto County property to be clearly
             labeled with the owner’s name.

115.3       Shipping/Delivery of Private Property on County Premises

             Limited shipping or delivery of personal items to or from County facilities
             will be allowed to the extent that such activities are not part of a
             commercial enterprise and do not waste or disrupt work time. Employees
             who have packages or parcels shipped or otherwise delivered to County
             facilities do so at their own risk. Employees who are not willing to accept
             this risk should make other arrangements with respect to such parcels or
             packages.       The County does not assume responsibility for private
             property in the form of packages or parcels that are being shipped or
             delivered to County property.       As a courtesy to employees, available
             County employees may sign acceptance of such packages or parcels, but
             the County accepts no liability or ownership responsibility for the package
             or parcel.

Approved:    April 23, 2008
Revised:

                                                                                             47
                                                                    MALHEURCOUNTY,OR                        2014-0680
                                                                    oO ONT 03/05/2014 1:45:20 PM
                                                                    Cnt=1 Pgs=2                                   Total:$0.00

116- DATA TECHNOLOGY PURCHASING POLICY
                                                                                          2014000068
                                                                    (, Deborah R. DeLong, County Clerk for Malheur
                                                                    County, Oregon certify that the Instrument identified
                                                                    herein was recorded in the Clerk records.
                                                                            Deborah R. DeLong - County Clerk

The purpose of this policy is to reduce the overall costs of technology equipment
purchases by coordinating and streamlining procurement; to ensure accurate
inventory records of technology related purchases and/or disposal of obsolete
equipment;       and     to   ensure     the   integrity   and    security         of     Malheur               County's
network.

In order to ensure that all technology related equipment meets the 1.8.
department support criteria, when purchasing technology related items staff or
elected      officials   should     consult    with   Information       Services             unless             otherwise
directed by Information Services or Malheur County Administration.                                              Failure to
adhere      to this policy    may      result in equipment       receiving         no or partial network
connectivity if deemed to be a threat to county networks or data after
consultation with the purchasing department head or elected official, nor will
non-compliant equipment             be required to be supported or maintained                                   by the |S
Department. In the case of an immediate threat to the county network or data
Information Services may immediately remove a device pending consultation
with department head or elected official.

This policy applies to all Malheur County employees and elected officials and
applies to all technology equipment regardless of the source of funding.
Technology devices include but are not limited to:

Computing Devices:
A computing device is any device that can directly access any Malheur County
data or network.

Software:
All software requires a license. Included is any software not delivered to you with
your computer, paid or free. Any software not in Malheur County's software
database found on a computer will be purchased and billed to the department
or uninstalled upon discovery.

The Information Services Department is responsible for:
   e     Coordinating the County's capital equipment purchases to fully leverage
         its purchasing power to achieve the best pricing possible.

                                                                                                                   Lb
       116-   Data Technology Purchasing Policy
              continued

   e   Assess and distribute useable equipment already owned by the County.
   e   Determining the ability of the device to meet the needs of the user.
   e   Annual evaluation of all departments for new purchases, equipment
       rotation and replacement.
   e   Recommending       overall budget for the purchasing of technology for all
       County Departments/Offices regardless of the source of funding.
   e   Plan yearly budget, purchase, and maintain proper service rotation for
       the following devices.
              Desktop Computer Systems
              Laptop Computers
              Windows OS Tablets

Third Party Vendors:
All departments/office must consult with Information Services before entering
into an agreement/contract with a third party vendor that will require access or
changes to the County's network or computers.

Approved:     March 5, 2014
Revised:

                                                     2014-0680                Page 2 of 2
                                                     MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON

                                                                                       L}
                                                                   maa
                                                                    MALHEUR COUNTY,OR
                                                                    MRCOUNTY COUR                            2016-1595
                                                                    DOCUMENT                      05/11/2016 01:40 PM

                                                                                                  00015950030037
                                                                   County, Oregon certify that the Instrum
                                                                                                           ent identified
                                                                   herein was recorded in the Clerk

117-    SEPARATION FROM EMPLOYMENT                                         Deborah R. DeLong- County Clerk                  UL
                                                                                                    records.

POLICY STATEMENT

A separation occurs when an employee resigns from County employment, retires, is
involuntarily separated or dies. This policy applies to employees who voluntarily leave (resign
or retire) their employment with Malheur County.      It also serves as a resource in the case of the
death of an employee.

RESIGNATION AND RETIREMENT

Employees may resign their employment at any time by providing written notification to their
supervisor.   Employees apply for retirement through PERS.     It is recommended by PERS that
employees submit applications to retire at least 120 days prior to their planned retirement
date.

Notice to supervisor. Employees are generally expected to provide at least a two-week notice
prior to their last day of work when resigning and a one-month (30 days) notice prior to their
last day of work when retiring.     Longer notice periods may be appropriate for key positions.
Notice periods may also be negotiated with the employee and his/her supervisor.

Last day of work/separation date. When an employee resigns or retires, the separation date
from employment is the last day the employee actually works. Employees must also work
through their notice period.      Employees may not use vacation, compensatory time or other
accrued paid leave to extend the notice period or last day of work.         In other words, the last day
of work/separation date may not be a sick, vacation or other paid leave day.

                                                                                                                      40
117-    SEPARATION FROM EMPLOYMENT continued

lf an employee gives notice of resignation or retirement then becomes ill, management has the
discretion to allow an employee to exhaust sick leave to the resignation/retirement date
originally indicated. The separation date of employment will be the resignation/retirement
date. Management also has the discretion to allow an employee to use vacation or other paid
leave prior to the set separation date only if the employee returns to work status on or before
the set separation date. If an employee is exhausting approved paid leave for medical reasons
and then resigns or dies before returning to work, the separation date is the date the employee
resigns or dies.

Notice to Personnel Officer.  Once a written notice is provided and discussed with the
employee’s supervisor, separations must be processed through the Personnel Officer. A copy
of the employee’s written letter of resignation or retirement as well as the supervisor’s
acceptance of resignation must be given to the Personnel Officer to be placed in the
employee’s official personnel file.  This is also important to meet payroll deadlines and to
ensure proper and complete approval.

Ability to rescind a resignation. A request to rescind a resignation must be in writing.
Acceptance of the withdrawal of resignation is at the discretion of the employee’s supervisor.
Supervisors should consult with the Personnel Officer upon receiving a request to rescind a
resignation.

Returning County property.       Employees must return all county property on or before the last
day of work.

                                                         Page 2 of 3                               ;   :
                             2016-1595        , OREGON
                               MALHEUR COUNTY
117-    SEPARATION FROM EMPLOYMENT continued

DEATH

The Personnel Officer can provide assistance in securing County benefits, entitlements and final
compensation when an employee dies.          Upon notified of the death of an employee, final
payout is made to the employee’s estate.       Payment is released to the administrator or
executor.

FINAL PAYOUT PROVISIONS

The final payout provisions below are just an overview and apply only to employees separating
from employment for reasons of retirement, resignation or death. Details about final payout
should be discussed with the Personnel Officer. Final payout is charged to the budget(s) from
which the employee’s salary is paid. The County may deduct from final payout any debts owed
to the County (for example, overdrawn leave at the time of separation).

Vacation leave.  Employees receive a lump sum final payout for accumulated but unused
vacation leave, not to exceed 25 workdays.

Compensatory/ Overtime.  Employees receive a lump sum final payout for accumulated but
unused compensatory/overtime, not to exceed 80 hours.

Sick leave.  Sick leave is not paid out. Except for PERS retirees, accrued and unused sick leave
will be reinstated if an employee is rehired within 180 days. Accumulated sick leave may be
used in computing retirement benefits as determined by PERS.

Personal leave.    Personal leave is not paid out.

Approved:         May 11, 2016

                                   2016-1595                Page 3 of 3
                                   MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON

                                                                                                2.
                                                                         MALHEURCOUNTY,OR                       2016-4360
                                                                         MOCUMENT |                  12/07/2016 11:16 AM
                                                                         Cnt=1    Pgs=4                              Total:$0.00

                                                                           MA         9906201600043600
                                                                         |, Deborah R. DeLong, County Clerk for Malheur

118-   WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION POLICY                                   hereinWas recorded
                                                                                      inthe Gerk record,                   Q/
       ORS 659A.199 TO 659A.224; and House Bill 4067 (2016)                      Deborah R. DeLong - County Clerk

1,     Policy Statement

Malheur County seeks to conduct all of its activities in a responsible, legal and ethical manner.
All board members, elected officials, employees and volunteers must practice integrity and
honesty in fulfilling their responsibilities and must comply with all applicable laws and
regulations. The purpose of this policy is to provide a mechanism for employees to report a
violation of federal, state or local law, rule or regulation by Malheur County or an official of
Malheur County (employer) and to delineate rights and remedies provided to employees under
this policy and Oregon law.

De     Complaints and Investigations

A whistleblower as used in this policy is an employee, elected official, board member or
volunteer of Malheur County who reports an activity that he/she considers to be illegal. The
employee is not responsible for investigating the activity or for determining fault or corrective
measures. Appropriate supervisors are charged with these responsibilities. Employees, elected
officials, volunteers, and board members should exercise sound judgment and make allegations
of a violation only when based on good faith and an objectively reasonable belief.

If an employee, elected official, board member or volunteer should discover information leading
him or her to believe that a violation of law has occurred; he or she shall report this information
to a supervisor, County Judge or County Counsel. An investigation will be conducted. Reports
of violations and the identity of the reporting employee will be kept confidential to the extent
possible, unless otherwise required by law or written consent of the reporting employee is
obtained. Appropriate action will be taken if warranted by the investigation.

3.     No Retaliation

County officials and employees are prohibited from retaliating, including the imposition of
disciplinary action, against an employee because he or she has, in good faith, reported an alleged
violation of law. However, employees may be subject to discipline if the information disclosed
by the employee is known by the employee to be false, or if the information disclosed related to
the employee’s own violations.

                                                                                                               53
118-   WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION POLICY
       ORS 659A.199 TO 659A.224; and House Bill 4067 (2016) con’t

An employee who believes he or she has been retaliated against for reporting illegal activity
should advise their supervisor or Personnel Officer. The County official receiving a report of
retaliation shall take appropriate action to investigate and address complaints of retaliation. A
County employee who has been found to have retaliated against an employee for reporting, in
good faith, illegal conduct shall be subject to discipline up to and including termination.
Notwithstanding the above, any employee who believes he/she has been retaliated against for the
reporting of improper government conduct may bring a civil action as provided in ORS
659A.215 or ORS 659A.199. These remedies are in addition to any other law or remedy
available to an employee. A violation of ORS 659A.203 by an official of Malheur County is a
Class A misdemeanor.

4.     Other Employee Protections

4.1    No employee of Malheur County shall be prohibited from discussing, in response to an
       official request, either specifically or generally with any member of the Legislative
       Assembly, legislative committee staff acting under direction of a member of the
       Legislative Assembly, any member of the governing elected body of a political
       subdivision in the state or any elected auditor of a city, county or metropolitan service
       district, the activities of:
       4.1.1 The state or any agency or political subdivision of the state; or
       4.1.2 Any person authorized to act on behalf of the state or any agency or political
                 subdivision in the state.
4.2    No employee of Malheur County shall be disciplined or threatened with discipline for
       disclosing any information that the employee reasonably believes is evidence of:
       4.2.1 A violation of any federal or state law, rule or regulation by the state, agency or
                 political subdivision;
       4.2.2     Mismanagement, gross waste of funds or abuse of authority or substantial and
                 specific danger to public health and safety resulting from action of the state,
                 agency or political subdivision; or
       4.2.3 Subject to ORS 659A.212(2), the fact that person receiving services, benefits or
                 assistance from the State or agency or subdivision, is subject to a felony or
                 misdemeanor warrant for arrest issued by the State of Oregon, any other state,
                the federal government, or any territory, commonwealth governmental
                 instrumentality of the United States.
4.3    No employee of Malheur County shall be required to give notice prior to making any
       disclosure under Sections 4.1 and 4.2.
4.4    No employee of Malheur County shall be discouraged, restrained, dissuaded, coerced,
       prevented or otherwise interfered with when making disclosures or engaging
       discussions of matters protected under Sections 4.1 and 4.2.

                                2016-4360                Page 2 of 4

                                                                                            54
                                MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON
118-   WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION POLICY
       ORS 659A.199 TO 659A.224; and House Bill 4067 (2016) con’t

4.5    Affirmative defense. Any employee’s good faith and objectively reasonable belief of a
       violation of federal, state or local law, rule or regulation by Malheur County shall be an
       affirmative defense to a civil or criminal charge related to the disclosure by the
       employee of lawfully accessed information related to the violation, including
       information that is exempt from disclosure as provided in ORS 192.501 to ORS
       192.505 or by Malheur County policy, if the information is provided to:
       4.5.1 A state or federal regulatory agency;
       4.5.2 Alaw enforcement agency;
       4.5.3 Amanager employed by the County;
       4.5.4 An attorney licensed to practice law in the state of Oregon if a confidential
                communication is made in connection with the alleged violation described in
                Section 4.5 and in furtherance of the rendition of legal services to the employee
                that are subject to ORS 40.225.
4.6    An employee may not assert and is not entitled to the affirmative defense described in
       Section 4.5 if:
       4.6.1 The employee does not have a good faith and objectively reasonable belief that
                a violation occurred,
       4.6.2 The employee discloses or re-discloses, or directs someone to disclose or re-
                disclose the information to a party other than the parties listed in Section 4.5,
       4.6.3. The information disclosed is stated in a commercial exclusive negotiating
                agreement that is not related to the employee’s employment
                with Malheur County,
       4.6.4 The information is stated in a commercial nondisclosure agreement
                that is not related to the employee’s employment with Malheur County,
       4.6.5 The disclosure relates to some activity by the employee’s coworker or supervisor
                that is not related to the course and scope of the coworker’s or supervisor's
                employment,
       4.6.6 The employee is an attorney for Malheur County or is an employee who is not an
                attorney but who is employed, retained, supervised or directed by an attorney
                and the disclosed information is related to the representation of Malheur
                County.
4.7    Disclosure made under Section 4.2, 4.3, and 4.5 herein are subject to the rules of
       professional conduct established pursuant to ORS 9.490.
4.8    Subject to the rules of professional conduct established pursuant to ORS 9.490, a public
       employee who is an attorney may report to the Attorney General the employee’s
       knowledge of a violation of federal, state or local law, rule or regulation by Malheur
       County.
4.9    Disclosure of information pursuant to Section 4.5 does not waive the attorney-client
       privilege or affect the applicability of any exemption from disclosure of a public record
       under ORS 192.501 to ORS 192.505.

                             2016-4360                 Page 3 of 4
                              MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON

                                                                                             55
118-   WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION POLICY
       ORS 659A.199 TO 659A.224; and House Bill 4067 (2016) con’t

4.10   Notwithstanding Section 4.5, information protected from disclosure under federal law,
       including but not limited to the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability
       Act of 1996 (P.L. 104-91), may be disclosed in accordance with federal law.

5.     Other Opportunities for Reporting

This policy is not intended to replace other opportunities for employees to bring complaints or
grievances pertaining to their employment under personnel rules, a collective bargaining
agreement or pursuing any rights they may have in federal and state law to present a civil
complaint, ethic complaint pursuant to ORS chapter 244, or to contact the Oregon government
fraud, waste or abuse hotline/website maintained by the Oregon Secretary of State.

Approved:   December 7, 2016
Revised:

                               2016-4360                Page 4 of 4
                               MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON

                                                                                             5be
                                                                  MALHEURCOUNTY,OR                           2017-3620
                                                                  MRCOUNTY COURT
                                                                  DOCUMENT                              09/1 mae pe ue a
                                                                  Cnt=1     Pgs=4

                                                                                       '20170003620004004
                                                                 Pr           omallieratncmaaigl ay
                                                                 | GayleV. Trotter,       County   Ch

                                                                 recorded in the Clerk records.
                                                                            Gayle V. Trotter - County Clerk

119-   VETERANS’ PREFERENCE

PURPOSE: To inform County departments and applicants, in writing, of Veterans’ Preference
requirements set forth by state law.

SCOPE: This policy applies to all County Departments, Offices, employees, and applicants.
Veterans’ Preference applies to any hiring or promotion decision that is made based on the
results of a merit based, competitive process that includes, but is not limited to, consideration of
an applicant’s or employee’s relative ability, knowledge, experience and other skills. Veterans’
Preference is to be applied at each of the hiring or promotion process (i.e. evaluation of
application, interview, written test).

POLICY STATEMENT: Malheur County applies Veterans’ Preference Points in accordance
with ORS 408.230 and 408.235.

DEFINITION OF “VETERAN”:

Oregon Revised Statute 408.225 defines “Veteran” for eligibility to receive employment
preference. A veteran means a person who has served on active duty with the Armed Forces of
the United States:

        °      For a period of more than 178 consecutive days and was discharged or released
                from active duty under honorable conditions;

        fo)     For 178 days or less and was discharged or released from active duty under
                honorable conditions because of a service-connected disability; or

        °       Served at least one day in a combat zone and was discharged or released under
                honorable conditions; or

        fo)     Received a combat or campaign ribbon for service in the Armed Services of the
                United States.

Active duty does not include attendance at a school under military orders, except schooling
incident to an active enlistment or a regular tour of duty. Active duty also does not include
normal military training as a reserve officer or member of the National Guard unit.

                                                                                                                           =)
119-    Veterans’ Preference con’t

PROCESS:

Attached to this memo is an outline of the criteria used to determine if Veterans’ Preference will
be granted. Applicants for employment who want to use Veterans’ Preference are required to
designate their eligibility through standard questions asked on the County’s on-line employment
application for jobs posted in this system and complete the Veterans’ Preference Form (ORS
408.230). Applicants must also fax, mail or deliver a copy of their DD214 and/or USVA proof
of disability by the application close date. The County reviews the documents against the criteria
for a determination of eligibility and points.

VETERANS’ PREFERENCE:

ORS 408.230 outline the manner in which public employers must grant preference to eligible
veterans. At each stage of the application process, preference must be granted to veterans who
successfully complete the initial application screening or an application examination or test that
is administered to establish eligibility.

Application Screening:    At time of initial application screening, points are to be added to a
scored review to determine a list of persons for interviews. Five (5) points are to be added to a
veteran’s score and 10 preference points to a disabled veteran’s score.

Scored Examination/Interview: An application examination or interview, given after initial
application screening that results in a score, shall have preference points added to the total
combined examination score without allocating the points to any single feature or part. Five (5)
points are to be added to a veteran’s score and 10 points to a disabled veteran’s score.

Non-scored application processes: for application examinations or processes that do not result
in a score, preference shall be given to the veteran or disabled veteran by applying methods that
give special consideration in the hiring decision to veterans and disabled veterans.

                                    2017-3620                Page 2 of 4                          53
                                    MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON
119-    Veterans’ Preference con’t

ELIGIBILITY         FOR PREFERENCE:

A veteran is eligible to use the preference provided under ORS for a position for which
application is made at any time after discharge or release from service in the Armed Forces.

Preference for current County employees: A regular or probationary status employee who seeks
promotion or transfer to another County position may receive veteran’s preference if the
employee qualifies as a veteran or disabled veteran. Employees who take a military leave of
absence also qualify if their service qualifies them for veteran status by reason of their service
during military leave.

APPOINTMENT TO A POSITON:

ORS states that Veterans Preference is not a requirement that the County appoint a veteran or
disabled veteran to a position. However, ORS does state that if the veteran’s application
examination(s), when combined with their veteran’s preference, are equal to or higher than the
results of a non-veteran, the public employer shall appoint an otherwise qualified veteran or
disabled veteran.

A decision to not appoint a veteran may be based solely on the veteran’s merits or qualifications
with respect to the vacant position. ORS provides that a veteran may request a written
explanation of the reasons why he/she was not appointed to the position. Upon such written
request, the County will provide the reasons for the decision not to appoint the veteran to the
position.

ENFORCEMENT:

A veteran or disabled veteran claiming a violation of the ORS may file a written complaint with
the Civil Rights Division of the Bureau of Labor and Industries.

Questions about Veterans’ Preference Points may be directed to the Personnel Officer.

Approved:    September 13, 2017
Revised:

                                   2017-3620                Page 3 of 4
                                   MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON

                                                                                                  a4
                       CRITERIA FOR VETERANS’ PREFERENCE POINTS

An applicant or employee seeking a Malheur County employment opportunity must meet the following eligibility
requirements to be awarded Veterans’ Preference Points as provided in ORS 408.230 and 408.235. The criteria
must be identifiable in a copy of DD Form 214 or DD Form 215 (Correction Form to DD Form 214) and VA Form
802 (if disabled). These forms must be submitted by the closing date for applications. If the information on the
applicant’s DD Form 214 and/or VA form does not support the criteria outlined on this form, preference points will
be denied.

Veteran Status Must meet the following criteria. 5 points total for veteran; 10 points total if disabled veteran.

A. Time in Service:

         Service in Armed Forces (Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines or Coast Guard) was more           than 90 consecutive
         days beginning on or before January 31, 1955, and was discharged under honorable conditions; or

         Service was more than 178 consecutive days beginning after January 31, 1955, and was_        discharge was
         under honorable conditions; or

         Service was for 178 days or less and discharge was under honorable conditions because        of a service-
         connected disability; or

         Service was for 178 days or less and discharge was under honorable conditions and have a disability rating
         from the United States Department of Veterans Affairs (USVA); or

         Served at least one day in a combat zone and discharge was under honorable conditions;       or

         Received a combat or campaign ribbon for service in the Armed Services of the US and_        discharge was
         under honorable conditions; or

         receiving nonservice-connected pension from the USVA.

B. Dates of Service:

         Applicant is eligible to use the preference provided in ORS 408.230 for a position for which application
         is made at any time after discharge or release form the service inthe   Armed Forces. Date of discharge
         on Form DD 214 is:

If meets A and B then 5 points total.

Cc       Disabled Veteran (Proof of disability must be submitted).

         Applicant is entitled to disability compensation from USVA, or was discharged or released from active
         duty for a disability incurred or aggravated in the line of duty or was awarded the Purple Heart for wounds
         received in combat.

If meets A, B and C then 10 points total.

Promotional Veteran Points: Veteran’s points are provided to employees seeking other county positions based on
the criteria set forth above for veteran or disabled veteran.

Use of Veteran Points:      There are currently no restrictions on amounts of times Veteran Preference may be used by
an applicant or employee.

                                         2017-3620                 Page 4 of 4
                                          MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON
                                                                                                                      (pO
                                 SECTION 200
                               COMPENSATION
                                Table of Contents

200-   Payroll Deductions

201-   Paydays

202-   Salary Advancement                           64

203-   Employee Withholding Certificates            65

204-   Time and Attendance                          66

205-   Final Paycheck                               68

206-   Overtime and Compensatory Time               69

207-   Direct Deposit                               70

                                                         (ol
200 -   PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS

        Payroll deductions, required by law for Oregon Public Employee’s Retirement
        System, Social Security, Medicare, Worker’s Compensation and State and Federal
        income tax and all other deductions by law (i.e. garnishment) are made
        automatically by the Administration Office.

        Employees may request other deductions as permitted by law and Malheur
        County’s cafeteria plan. The employee shall make such request in writing to the
        Personnel Officer.

        Approved:      January 1, 2003
        Revised:

                                                                                      loZ
201-   PAYDAYS

       You will be paid monthly. Paychecks are generally the last day of each month. If
       the payday falls on either a Saturday or Sunday, paychecks will be distributed on
       the Friday prior to the payday. Ifa holiday falls on payday, you will receive your
       check on the last workday prior to the holiday.

       Approved:      January 1, 2003
       Revised:

                                                                                     (Oe)
202-   SALARY ADVANCMENT

       Advance payments of salary are to be granted in emergency situations only and
       must be approved by the County Administrator. Emergency draws will be made
       not to exceed the amount equal to the hours accumulated at the time of the request
       less any funds required for voluntary and involuntary deductions. A salary
       advance shall not exceed the employee’s net salary for the pay period. The
       amount of any pay advance will be withheld from employee paychecks covering
       the pay period the wages were drawn against. All requests for emergency draws
       will be reviewed on an individual basis. You are expected to conduct your
       personal financial affairs in a responsible manner and advances will normally
       only be approved in cases of emergencies beyond your control.

       Approved:      January 1, 2003
       Revised:

                                                                                       lod
203-   EMPLOYEE      WITHHOLDING         CERTIFICATES W-4 FORMS

       You are required under Federal law to furnish the organization with an Employee
       Withholding Exemption Certificate (W-4) at the date of hire. You must file a new
       W-4 form at any time the number of entitled exemptions decreases to less than the
       number being claimed. New W-4 forms may be filed when the number of entitled
       exemptions increases, if desired, but it is not required. You may increase
       withholding by claiming fewer exemptions than entitled or by requesting
       additional withholding to be made if you find that insufficient tax has been
       withheld to meet your year end tax liability.

       Approved:     January 1, 2003
       Revised:

                                                                                  66S
                                                                     MALHEURCOUNTY,OR                         2016-3050
                                                                     MRCOUNTY COURT
                                                                     DOCUMENT                      09/07/2016           11:42   AM
                                                                     Cnt=1    Pgs=2                                Total:$0.00

204-   TIME    AND ATTENDANCE                                          | Il | | |                      | | | |          | | | |

                                                                                        3201600030500020026
                                                                     |, Deborah R. DeLong,   County Clerk for Malheur

                                                                     seed i ehy debs                             lial
       ATTENDANCE                                                            Deborah R. DeLong - County Clerk                     AK

       Employees shall be subject to the following policies except when in conflict with a
       collective bargaining agreement.

       Reliable attendance and punctuality are essential for effective operations within Malheur
       County. Customers, supervisors and coworkers have an expectation that employees will
       regularly be at work during their assigned work schedule. Malheur County recognizes
       that absences will occur consistent with County policies, state and federal laws and
       collective bargaining agreements for holidays, vacations, personal leave, jury service,
       bereavement, medical leave, sick leave, military leave etc.

       The following, however, are illustrative of unacceptable attendance. This list is not
       intended to cover every possible type of unacceptable attendance and does not preclude
       supervisor action for other attendance matters that may be detrimental to efficient
       operations of a county department or office.

       (a) Leaving work during assigned work hours without reasonable excuse and proper
       permission or approval. Such absence is viewed as job abandonment.

       (b) Unexcused or unauthorized absences. An absence can be unexcused or unauthorized
       when an employee fails to call in, give advance notice, exceeds the length of absence as
       defined by policy, exceeds the length of absence authorized in advance by employee’s
       supervisor or exceeds accrued leave. Each department or office may have specific
       procedures for employees to follow when requesting time off or notifying his/her
       supervisor of the employee’s absence. The supervisor should provide those specific
       procedures, in writing, to all employees within that supervisors’ department so the
       employee may be aware.

       (c) Pattern absences. Pattern absences may include repeated unscheduled absences the
       day before or after a scheduled holiday, vacation, weekend or personal day; an absence
       on a desirable day off or a specific day of the week; or exhausting available leave every
       month as it is accrued without reasonable excuse.

       (d) Unexcused or unauthorized tardiness. Failure to report to employee’s assigned work
       area and fully prepared to perform duties at the scheduled starting time, including
       returning from breaks and meal period without reasonable excuse.
204-   TIME AND ATTENDANCE continued

       (e) Abuse of sick leave. Abuse of sick leave can occur when an employee uses sick
       leave for any reason other than those specified in the county’s sick leave policy or state
       or federal law or collective bargaining agreement.

       (f) Excessive absenteeism or tardiness.

       TIME

       The time sheet is a record of time worked and any leave time used by employees. It
       should be filled out daily. It provides an accounting to the public and a record of the time
       spent on and away from the job. Time sheets should be reviewed for completeness and
       accuracy. Supervisors will review time sheets each pay period and sign them. Time
       sheets must be legible. If an error is to be corrected or time clarified, all entries and
       corrections should be initialed. Time sheets should be reviewed, signed and turned in to
       the Administrative Office on the date requested by the Personnel Officer. Your signature
       on the time sheet verifies that the times and dates are true and accurate and that no time is
       being claimed for your personal business unless sick, vacation or personal leave is
       indicated.

       Time sheets ensure compliance with federal and state laws, regulations, payroll
       obligations and collective bargaining agreements.

       Approved:      January 1, 2003
       Revised:       September 7, 2016

                                   2016-3050                 Page 2 of 2
                                    MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON

                                                                                                    1
205-   FINAL PAYCHECK

       When resigning from Malheur County, if you provide us with at least 48 hours
       notice (excluding holidays and weekends) you will receive your final paycheck on
       the last day worked. If less notice is given, the final paycheck will be provided
       within five (5) working days or on the next regularly scheduled payday,
       whichever occurs first. Final paychecks will include all wages earned through the
       last day worked plus payment for any accrued vacation benefits that are due and
       payable at separation.

       Approved:      January 1, 2003
       Revised:

                                                                                     (o8
206-   OVERTIME AND COMPENSATORY                 TIME

       Occasionally, you may be required to work overtime. Malheur County complies
       with the provisions for overtime as outlined in the Fair Labor Standards Act
       (FLSA) and State wage and hour laws. Overtime hours will be paid to nonexempt
       employees at one and one-half times the basic straight time hourly rate for all
       hours worked in excess of 40 in a regular workweek. Prior approval must be
       obtained from your supervisor before working overtime. These provisions do not
       apply to FLSA exempt employees, such as department heads.

       Overtime is calculated for nonexempt employees on the basis of hours actually
       worked over 40 in a week. Sick leave, personal leave and vacation are not
       counted as hours worked. Overtime will be paid in cash at the rate of 1.5 times
       the hourly rate of pay if budgeted funds are available. Overtime will be allowed
       in compensatory time off at 1.5 times the overtime hours with prior agreement of
       the employee. Compensatory time can be accrued up to 80 hours by nonexempt
       employees.

       Overtime does not earn additional benefits, and compensatory time off instead of
       regular work is counted as regular time in computing wages and benefits.

       Approved:    January 1, 2003
       Revised:

                                                                                     4
207-   DIRECT DEPOSIT

For the sake of convenience and efficiency for both the employee and Malheur
County, employees may have their payroll checks processed through direct
deposit. Employees must provide bank and account information to the Personnel
Officer in order to set up direct deposit.

Approved:   = January 1, 2003
Revised

                                                                                "1O
                                   SECTION 300
                        BENEFITS, LEAVES AND INSURANCE
                                     Table of Contents

300-   Jury Duty and Court Witness Leave

301-   Military Service Leave

302-   Paid Personal Leave Benefit                                75

303-   Sick Leave                                                 76

304-   Family Medical Leave                                       83

305-   Unpaid Sick Leave/Non-FMLA/OFLA Medical Leave              94

306-   Unpaid Leave of Absence                                    96

307-   Bereavement Leave                                          97

308-   Paid Vacation Benefits                                     100

309-   Donation of Vacation Benefits                              101

310-   Paid Holiday Benefits                                      102

311-   Retirement                                                 103

312-   Deferred Compensation Insurance                            104

313-   Workers’ Compensation Insurance                            105

314-   Medical, Dental and Vision Insurance                       108

315-   Health Insurance Continuation (COBRA)                      109

316-   Life Insurance                                             110

317-   Disability, Cancer, Accidental, Intensive Care Insurance   111

318-   Unemployment Insurance                                     112

319-   Employee Assistance Program                                113

                                                                  ai
320-   Cafeteria or Flexible Plan    114

321-   Lactation Breaks              115

322-   Domestic Violence Leave       117

323-   Veterans Day                  119

                                    ae
300 -   JURY DUTY AND COURT WITNESS LEAVE

        An employee subpoenaed for jury duty or as a court witness may be granted leave
        with pay. An employee will notify his/her immediate supervisor and will pay
        Malheur County the amount of compensation or per diem (excluding mileage and
        meals reimbursement) paid to the employee for such duty. A copy of the
        subpoena will be filed with the leave request/time sheet. Upon being excused
        from jury service or as a witness before the end of the normal workday, the
        employee shall immediately notify his/her supervisor for assignment for the
        remainder of the regular workday.

        Leave will be granted for appearances before a court, judicial or quasi-judicial
        body as a witness in response to a subpoena or other direction by proper authority
        when such appearance is the result of the employee’s official duties for Malheur
        County, the employee will be given leave without pay loss. The compensation
        paid to an employee as a witness fee or other per diem when a County-owned
        vehicle is used shall be paid to Malheur County.

        This policy does not apply to employees who are involved in personal, legal
        actions. Vacation, personal leave or compensatory time must be used in personal,
        legal actions.

        Approved:      January 1, 2003
        Revised:

                                                                                        13
301-—   MILITARY SERVICE LEAVE

        Employees will be granted leave without pay for the duration of their military
        duty pursuant to law. Employees who are members of one of the reserved
        components of the armed forces of the United States or the Oregon National
        Guard shall be entitled to leave without loss of pay for military duty for a period
        or periods not to exceed a total of 15 calendar days for each calendar year.
        Requests for military leave shall be submitted through regular supervisory
        channels to the Personnel Officer and shall be accompanied by official orders
        specifying the dates and location of such military duty.

Approved:    — January 1, 2003
Revised:

                                                                                              ie)
302-   PAID PERSONAL LEAVE BENEFIT

       General Policy Statement. Each full-time employee is entitled to two (2) days of paid
       personal leave each calendar year commencing in January following the employee’s first
       annual anniversary date. Personal leave does not accrue from year to year. If personal
       leave is not used by December 31 every year, it will be lost. Unused personal leave will
       not be paid to the employee. Employees must provide continuous service in the previous
       calendar year to be eligible for two personal leave days. For an employee that does not
       provide continuous service in the previous calendar year, personal leave will be pro-rated
       on a monthly basis.

       New employees. For new employees, personal leave is pro-rated starting the first month
       following the employee’s first year anniversary date through December 31. For example,
       after being employed for one year and the employee’s anniversary date is July 1, the
       employee will be granted one (1) personal leave day on January 1. July 1 through
       December 31 is % of a calendar year and therefore 4 of two personal leave days or 1
       personal leave day will be granted.

       Employees under a collective bargaining agreement must refer to their agreement for
       personal leave benefits.

                                                               MALHEUR COUNTY, OR                            =
       Approved:      January 1, 2003                          MRCOUNTY COURT                           2014-1837
       Revised:       June 4, 2014                             DOCUMENT                      06/06/2014 12:36 PM
                                                               Cnt=1 Pgs=1                             Total:$0.00

                                                                    0002405120140001837001001 &,
                                                               |, Deborah R. DeLong, County Clerk for Malheur
                                                               County, Oregon certify that the instrument identified
                                                               hereln was recorded in the Clerk records.
                                                                      Deborah R. DeLong - County Clerk

                                                                                                                       15
                                                               MALHEURCOUNTY,OR                         2015.4390
                                                               MRCOUNTY COURT
                                                               DOCUMENT                      12/16/2015 01:53 PM
                                                               Cnt=1 Pgs=7                             Total:$0.00

303-          SICK LEAVE
                                                                    00033657201500043900070072
                                                               |, Deborah R. DeLong, County Clerk for Malheur
                                                               County, Oregon certify that the Instrument identified   A
                                                               herein was recorded in the Clerk records.
                                                                       Deborah R. DeLong - County Clerk                    A.

       Purpose                                                                            sien
       This policy on paid sick leave is established to comply with Oregon Laws
       Chapter 537 (2015) and rules adopted by the Oregon Bureau of Labor and
       Industries (BOLI) in OAR Chapter 839 Division 007.

       Accrual of Paid Sick Leave Hours
       All employees of Malheur County will earn sick leave at a rate of not less than
       one (1) hour for every 30 actual hours worked. Sick leave benefits may be
       accumulated for an unlimited amount of hours (no cap). Full time employees
       accrue sick leave based on either a 37.5 or 40 hour workweek as follows:

       37.5 hour workweek                    7.5 hours of sick leave a month
       40 hour workweek                      8 hours of sick leave a month

       Employees regularly working less than 40 hours a week shall accrue sick leave on
       a pro-rated basis. Such pro-ration shall be in direct proportion to the percentage
       of actual hours worked less than 40 hours in a workweek.

       Sick leave will accrue immediately upon hire. All employees, including new
       employees, may use sick leave as it is accrued. There is no waiting period before
       new employees my use their accrued sick leave hours.

       Sick leave will not accrue during any period under which the employee is not
       actively employed. “Actively employed” means the employee has worked or is
       on paid leave status fourteen days or more during the calendar month.

         Sick Leave Policy

                                                                                                           Tle
303-       SICK LEAVE con’t

Permissible Use of Accumulated Sick Leave Hours.

A. Definitions. This policy incorporates, by reference, the definitions set out in
OAR 839-007-0000 and Oregon’s Family Leave Act (OFLA), as amended from
time to time, which at the time of adoption of this policy includes but not limited
to:

           (1) “Family member” means an employee’s spouse, domestic partner,
           custodial parent, non-custodial parent, adoptive parent, foster parent,
           biological parent, stepparent, parent-in-law, a parent of an employee’s
           domestic partner, an employee’s grandparent or grandchild, or a person
           with whom the employee is or was in a relationship of in loco parentis.
           “Family member” also includes the biological, adopted, foster child or
           stepchild of an employee or the child of any employee’s domestic
           partner.   An employee’s child in any of these categories may be either a
           minor or an adult at the time qualifying leave.       Family member under this
           policy also includes brother and sister but does not include cousins, aunts
           and uncles, unless in loco parentis relationships.

           (2) “Serious health condition” is defined in OAR 839-009-0210(20).

           (3) “Spouse” includes:

           (a) Individuals in a marriage recognized under state law in the state in
           which the marriage was entered into;

           (b) Individuals in a marriage validly performed in a foreign jurisdiction;

           (c) Individuals in a common law marriage that was entered into in a state
           that recognizes such marriages; and

           (d) Individuals who have lawfully established a civil union, domestic
           partnership or similar relationship under the laws of any state. Individuals
           described in this subsection are not required to obtain a marriage license,
           establish a record of marriage or solemnize their relationship.

      Sick Leave Policy               2015-4390
                                      MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON
                                                                Page 2 of 7
                                                                                            11
303-   SICL LEAVE       con’t

       Employees may use accumulated sick leave for the following reasons:

       (1) For an employee’s mental or physical illness, injury or health
       condition; need for medical diagnosis, care or treatment of mental or
       physical illness, injury or health condition; or need for preventive medical
       care.

       (2) For care of a family member with a mental or physical illness, injury
       or health condition; care of a family member who needs medical
       diagnosis, care or treatment of a mental or physical illness, injury or health
       condition; or care of a family member who needs preventative medical
       care.

       (3) For the following purposes specified in ORS 659A.159 (OFLA):

       (a) To care for an infant or newly adopted child under 18 years of age, or
       for a newly placed foster child under 18 years of age, or for an adopted or
       foster child older than 18 years of age if the child is incapable of self-care
       because of a mental or physical disability. Leave under this subsection
       must be completed within 12 months after birth or placement of the child,
       and an eligible employee is not entitled to any period of leave under this
       subsection after the expiration of 12 months after birth or placement of the
       child.

       (b) To care for a family member with a serious health condition.

       (c) To recover from or seek treatment for a serious health condition of
       the employee that renders the employee unable to perform at least one of
       the essential functions of the employee’s regular position.

       (d) To care for a child of the employee who is suffering from illness,
       injury or condition that is a not a serious health condition, but that requires
       home care.

  Sick Leave Policy
                                2015-4390                Page 3 of 7
                                MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON

                                                                                         1%
303-   SICK LEAVE      con’t

       (e) To deal with the death of a family member within 60 days of the date
       on which the eligible employee receives notice of the death of a family
       member by:

       (A) Attending the funeral or alternative to a funeral of the family
       member;

       (B) Making arrangements necessitated by the death of the family
       member; or

       (C) Grieving the death of the family member.

       (D) Use of sick leave under this subsection is subject to the limits in
       Malheur County Policy 307 Bereavement Leave.

       4. For the following purposes specified in ORS 659A.272 and consistent
       with Malheur County Policy 322 Domestic Violence Leave:

       (a) To seek legal or law enforcement assistance or remedies to ensure the
       health and safety of the employee or employee’s minor child or dependent,
       including preparing for and participating in protective order proceedings
       or other civil or criminal legal proceedings related to domestic violence,
       harassment, sexual assault or stalking.

       (b) To seek medical treatment for or to recover from injuries caused by
       domestic violence or sexual assault to or harassment or stalking of the
       employee or the employee’s minor child or dependent.

       (c) To obtain, or to assist a minor child or dependent in obtaining,
       counseling from a licensed mental health professional related to an
       experience of domestic violence, harassment, sexual assault or stalking.

       (d) To obtain services from a victim services provider for the employee or
       the employee’s minor child or dependent.

       (e) To relocate or take steps to secure an existing home to ensure the
       health and safety of the eligible employee or the employee’s minor child
       or dependent.

  Sick Leave Policy
                                 2015-4390                 Page4 of 7
                                  MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON

                                                                                  4
303-       SICK LEAVE con’t

           5. In the event of a public health emergency, including but not limited to:

           (a) Closure of the employee’s place of business, or the school or place of
           care of the employee’s child, by order of a public official due to a public
           health emergency (does not include closures for teacher planning days or
           snow days);

           (b) A determination by a lawful public health authority or by a health care
           provider that the presence of the employee or the family member of the
           employee in the community would jeopardize the health of others, such
           that the employee must provide self care or care for the family member; or

           (c) The exclusion of the employee from the workplace under any law or
           rule that requires Malheur County to exclude the employee form the
           workplace for health reasons.

c.         Sick leave is not to be used as a supplement to vacation.

Dz.        Accrued sick leave may not be donated to another employee. .

E.         Employees shall use accrued sick leave in % hourly increments, .25, .50,
           7S orl.

F,         Employees on paid sick leave are paid his/her regular rate of pay.

Employee’s Notice to Supervisor of Sick Leave
Prior to a work shift (advance notice when leave is foreseeable) and as soon as
practicable (when leave is unforeseeable), the employee shall notify his/her
supervisor of the nature of sick leave absence and the expected length of absence.
When an employee uses sick leave for a foreseeable absence, the employee shall
make a reasonable effort to schedule the leave in a manner that does not unduly
disrupt the operations of Malheur County and his/her office. Particular sick leave
requests forms may be utilized by supervisors and completed by employees to
schedule or track leave of absences, including sick leave absences. The
employee shall inform his/her supervisor of any change in the duration of the sick
leave time as soon as practicable. A supervisor may deny sick leave if the
employee fails to provide notice as required or if the employee fails to make a
reasonable effort to scheduled leave in a manner that does not unduly disrupt the
operations of Malheur County. In all cases, whether and when an employee can
practicably provide notice depends upon the individual facts and circumstances of
the situation.

      Sick Leave Policy           2015-4390                Page 5 of 7
                                  MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON
303-    SICK LEAVE con’t

Employer Request for Medical Verification; Domestic Violence Certification
In some circumstances if an employee uses sick leave for more than three (3)
consecutive scheduled workdays or the need for sick leave is foreseeable and
projected to last more than 3 consecutive workdays, Malheur County may require
the employee to provide verification from a health care provider (i.e. physician,
dentist, psychologist, optometrist, naturopath, registered nurse, nurse practitioner,
midwife, social worker, chiropractic physician) of the need for the sick time, or
certification (from attorney, law enforcement officer, health care professional,
licensed mental health professional or counselor, member of clergy, victim
services provider) of the need for leave relating to domestic violence, sexual
assault, harassment or stalking. Medical verification shall be provided within 15
calendar days after Malheur County requests the verification. Certifications shall
be provided to Malheur County within a reasonable time after employee receives
the request for certification.

Malheur County will pay any reasonable costs for providing any medical
verification or certification required, including lost wages, that are not paid under
a health benefit plan in which employee is enrolled.

If verification or certification is not provided sick leave may not commence or
employee will not be paid for the use of sick time.

If Malheur County suspects that employee is abusing sick leave, including
engaging in a pattern of abuse, Malheur County may require verification from a
health care provider of the need of the employee to use sick leave, regardless of
whether the employee has used sick leave for more than three consecutive days.
Pattern of abuse includes, but is not limited to, repeated use of unscheduled sick
time on or adjacent to weekends, holidays, vacation days or paydays.

Notice of County’s Paid Sick Leave Policy
An employee’s amount of accrued, used and unused sick leave will be included
with the employee’s monthly paycheck (paystub). Notice of Oregon Laws
Chapter 537, (2015, BOLI rules in OAR 839-007-0000 through 839-007-0120
and this policy will be incorporated in the Malheur County employee handbook
and made available to all employees. Notice/posters provided by BOLI will be
posted in conspicuous and accessible locations in each workplace (i.e.
breakrooms),

  Sick Leave Policy              2015-4390                Page 6 of 7
                                 MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON

                                                                                        I
303-   SICK LEAVE con’t

Accrued Unused Sick Leave
Accrued unused sick leave is not payable on termination of employment with
Malheur County for any reason. However, depending on what retirement option
an employee selects, upon retirement accumulated but unused sick leave may be
used in computing retirement benefits as determined under the Public Employees
Retirement System (PERS). Except for PERS retirees, accrued unused sick leave
will be restored to employees who are rehired within 180 days.

Approved:      January 1, 2003
Revised:       December 16, 2015

  Sick Leave Policy
                                 2015-4390                Eager et
                                 MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON

                                                                             B82
                                 serps WH =                                      FAULLED
304- FAMILY MEDICAL LEAVE                                                          FEB 2.52059
                                                                           DEBORAH R. DELONG County Clerk

                        FEDERAL FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE/                            uf              sas
                            STATE FAMILY MEDICAL LEAVE

I.      EFFECTIVE DATE AND PURPOSE

The Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) generally took effect as federal law August 5,
1993.   The Oregon Family Leave Act (OFLA) became effective as state law September 9,
1995.    Under these laws, Malheur County provides leave for family and medical reasons.
In addition, pregnancy and parental leave are provided in conformance with Oregon law
ORS 659.029, the Federal Pregnancy Discrimination Act (PDA) and Amendment to Title
VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The purpose of the these laws is to secure the rights of
employees to respond to their own health needs and those of their family members without
being penalized for taking such leave and to guarantee reinstatement to the employee’s
former or equivalent position.

II.     COVERAGE

Federal law covers public agencies, including counties. In order for county employees to be
eligible, however, they must be employed at a work site with 50 or more employees within
75 miles of the employee's work site for each working day during each of the 20 or more
calendar work weeks in the year in which the leave is taken or in the preceding calendar
year. State law covers counties that employ 25 or more part-time or full-time employees for
each working day during 20 or more calendar work weeks in the year in which the leave is
to be taken or in the preceding calendar year.

Il,     ELIGIBILITY

Federal law applies to employees who have worked for Malheur County for at least 12
months and for at least 1250 hours during the year preceding the start of the leave. State law
generally applies to employees who work an average of 25 hours or more per week for the
County during the 180 days or more immediately prior to the first day of the start of the
requested leave.     For parental leave purposes, an employee becomes eligible upon
completing at least 180 days immediately preceding the date on which the parental leave
begins. There is no minimum average number of hours worked per week when determining
employee eligibility for parental leave.

                                                                                            3
                                                                   INSTRUMENT NO. 2009 ~ | (4
                                                                    Page.ca_of_[|_Pages

IV.       DEFINITIONS

Child - under federal and state law, means a biological, adopted or foster child, a stepchild
or a child of a person standing "in loco parentis" or in place of the parent, financially
supporting and having day-to-day responsibility for the care of the child. The child must be
under 18 years of age or may be 18 years of age or older if incapable of self-care due to a
mental or physical disability.

Family Member — under state law family member includes a same sex domestic partner,
parent of a same sex domestic partner, child of same sex domestic partner, parent-in-law,
grandparents and grandchildren.

Parent - under federal and state law means, a biological parent or a person who stands or
stood "in loco parentis" to the employee when the employee was a child.

Spouse - Federal law allows the term "spouse" to be defined in accordance with each state's
law. Oregon law does not currently define the term.

Serious Health Condition —

Examples of serious health condition include but are not limited to: heart attacks and
conditions requiring surgery (e.g. bypass or valve operations); back conditions requiring
extensive therapy or surgery; strokes; severe nervous disorders (mental/emotional/stress);
severe respiratory conditions; pregnancy, severe morning sickness, prenatal care, childbirth
and   recovery   from   childbirth;    appendicitis,     pneumonia;     severe   arthritis;   treatment   for
substance abuse (not absence because of use of substance).

Health conditions not considered serious (unless complications arise) include, but are not
limited   to: short term   illnesses    (common        cold,   flu, ear aches,   upset    stomach,   ulcers,
headaches other than migraines), routine dental or orthodontia problems, cosmetic treatment
or routine physical exams.

The following table lists definitions of serious health condition under the Family and
Medical Leave Act and the Oregon Family Medical Leave Act:

                                                                                                            BY
                                                         INSTRUMENT yo. 2009 — | [lo
                                                          Page.        of.         Pages

Oregon Family Leave (OFLA)                       Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA)
¢ Illness, injury, impairment, or physical or    ¢ Illness, injury, impairment, or physical or
mental condition that requires inpatient care    mental condition involving incapacity or
in a hospital, hospice, or residential medical   treatment connected with inpatient care in a
care facility; or                                hospital, hospice, or residential medical care
¢   Illness, disease, or condition that in the   facility; or
medical judgment of the treating health care     ¢ Continuing          treatment        by    a health     care
provider poses an imminent danger of death,      provider involving a period of incapacity:
is terminal in prognosis with a reasonable            (1) requiring absence of more that three
possibility of death in the near future; or      (3)   consecutive           calendar      days   from    work
* requires constant care or continuing care      which involves (a) treatment two or more
such as home care administered by a health       times from a health care provider, a nurse or
care professional; or                            physician under the supervision of a health
¢ A period of incapacity where the employee      care provider, or under orders of or referral
is unable to perform an essential job function   by health care provider or (b) treatment by a
and any subsequent treatment of recovery         health care provider on a least one occasion
period. The incapacity must involve (1) two      which results in a regimen of treatment
or more treatments by a health care provider     under the supervision of the health care
or (2) one treatment     plus   a regimen   of   provider; or
continuing care; of                                    (2) due    to         a   chronic     serious     health
*A period of incapacity or treatment for a                 condition; or
chronic serious health condition that requires         (3) requiring   absences   to    receive
periodic visits for treatment from a health                multiple    treatments    (including
provider, continues over an extended period                recovery periods) for restorative
of time, and may cause episodic rather than a              surgery or a condition that if left
continuing period of incapacity; or                        untreated would likely result in
* Involves permanent or long term incapacity               incapacity for more than three (3)
due to a condition for which treatment may                 days; or
not be effective; or                                   (4) due to pregnancy or for prenatal
‘Involves multiple treatments for restorative              care; or
surgery or for a condition such as                     (5) which is permanent or long-term due
chemotherapy for cancer, physical therapy                  to a condition for which treatment
for arthritis, or dialysis for kidney disease              may not be effective
that if not treated would likely result in
incapacity or more than three days; or
*Any period of disability due to pregnancy
or childbirth or period of absence for
prenatal care.

                                                                                                                  @5
                                                             INSTRUMENT NO, 2009 —1 [ Lo Y
                                                             Page_=1   of,   Pages
V.      PURPOSE OF LEAVE

Federal and state laws allow employees to take leave for the following purposes:

        1.         Birth of the employee's child (eligibility expires 12 months after the
                   birth);

        2          Placement of a child in the employee’s home for adoption or foster
                   care when the child is under age 18 or older than age 18 if incapable
                   of self-care (eligibility expires 12 months after placement);

       3.          Care of a spouse, child or parents with a serious health condition.
                   For the serious health condition of a child, federal law restricts the
                   leave for children under the age of 18 years of age or children of any
                   age who are disabled. State law does not have this restriction for a
                   child with a serious health condition, but it does apply for “sick child
                   leave”.

        4.         Employee's own serious health condition.

In addition, state law allows employees to take leave to care for a parent-in-law, same sex
domestic partner, grandparent or grandchild with a serious health condition and for the care
of a sick or injured child who requires home care but is not suffering from a serious health
condition (“sick-child leave’).

VI.     FMLA EXPANDED FOR MILITARY FAMILIES

In 2009 leave under the FMLA was expanded in two areas for employees who have a family
member in the Armed Forces.

1.          Caregiver Leave For an Injured Service Member

An eligible employee who is the spouse, son, daughter, parent, or next of kin (defined as the
closest blood relative) of a covered service member shall be entitled to a total of twenty-six
(26) workweeks of leave during a 12-month period to care for the service member. A
covered service member is a member of the Armed               Forces, including   a member of the
National Guard or Reserves, who is undergoing medical treatment, recuperation, or therapy,
is otherwise in outpatient status, or is otherwise on the temporary disability list, for a serious
injury or illness that occurred while on active duty.
                                                            instauyentNo, 2009 ~{ [loY
                                                            Page.>-of,       Pages

Ds      Family Leave to Call to Active Duty

An eligible employee may use up to twelve (12) weeks of FMLA leave any qualifying
exigency (pressing or urgent matter) as defined by the Department of Labor arising from a
spouse, son, daughter, or parent who is either on active duty in the Armed Forces, or who
has been notified of an impending call or order to active duty in the Armed Forces. FMLA
leave for a qualifying exigency is not in addition to the standard FMLA 12-week
entitlement.

Vil.    LENGTH OF LEAVE

Duration of leave for FMLA and OFLA:

°       Employees are permitted to take a total of twelve (12) weeks of leave in a 12-month
        period for any qualifying event. In most cases, FMLA leave and OFLA leave will
        run concurrently. Employees using qualified OFLA leave for circumstances not
        covered by FMLA may take additional protected leave from FMLA-qualifying
        conditions
°       Leave for the birth of the employee’s child, or the placement of a child for adoption
        or foster care with the employee (parental leave) must be taken within 12 months of
        the birth or adoption. Parental leave must be taken in one continuous block and may
        not be taken intermittently.
°       Two family members that are both employees of Malheur County may take FMLA
        concurrently only under the following circumstances:

        a.     under FMLA for parental leave or leave to care for an employee’s parent with a
               serious health   condition,   but not limited to a combined    total of 12 weeks
               between the eligible employees in either circumstance, or
        b.     under OFLA where one employee needs to care for the other employee who is
               suffering from a serious health condition; or
        c.     under OFLA where both employees are suffering from a serious health
               condition, or
        d.     under OFLA where one employee needs to care for a child who has a serious
               health condition while the other employee is also suffering a serious health
               condition, or
        e.     under certain circumstances, subject to business needs, and subject to review and
               approval by each employee’s supervisor and in coordination with the Personnel
               Officer and Malheur County Court.
                                                          INSTRUMENT No. 2009 —[ | lo
                                                          Page.    ofL(_ Pages

Additional Leave Under OFLA:

In addition to the 12 work weeks of leave authorized above, under state law a female
employee may take an additional 12 work weeks of leave within any one-year period for an
illness, injury or condition related to pregnancy or childbirth that disables the employee
from performing her work duties. This means a female employee may take up to 24 weeks
for pregnancy disability (but she does not then get an additional 12 weeks for parental or
sick child leave). This period of pregnancy related disability includes any period of time
prior to childbirth in which the employee’s health care provider certifies the employee can
not work and continue after childbirth until the health care provider certified the employee is
no longer disabled. However, a woman may choose to designate the leave following
childbirth as parental leave instead of pregnancy disability.

An employee who takes 12 weeks of parental leave may also take up to an additional 12
weeks of sick child leave in the same leave year. A parent is allowed 12 weeks of “sick-
child leave” only if the full 12 weeks of parental leave are exhausted. Ifthe employee takes
less than 12 work weeks of parental leave, the employee is entitled to the balance of the 12
weeks for any other family leave purpose except that the leave taken for parental leave shall
not reduce the leave available for sick child leave. Sick child leave need not be provided if
another family member is available to care for the child.

Additional Information Regarding Pregnancy and Childbirth

Federal and State laws provide the following rights:

« Prohibitions against terminating or refusing to hire or promote a woman solely because
she is pregnant.
« Bars mandatory leave for pregnant women arbitrarily set at a certain time in their
pregnancy and not related to their ability to work. A female employee must be permitted to
work during pregnancy so long as she is able to perform available job duties.
« Requires employers to grant leaves to employees for disability related to pregnancy,
childbirth and related complications as well as non-medical “parental leaves” under the
same policies as for other related leaves.
* Requires that an employer make reasonable accommodations to allow a pregnant
employee to transfer to a less or strenuous or hazardous position for the duration of her
pregnancy or grant leave of absence while the employee is disabled from performing any
available  job duties offered by the employer.
« Requires employers to reinstate an employee returning from pregnancy related disability
leave on the same basis as other employees returning from sick or disability leave.
                                                          INSTRUMENT No. 2009 — I I lo Y
                                                                L/ of
                                                          Page__2_ Pages

VII.     CALCULATING THE 12 MONTH PERIOD FOR LEAVE

The County will use the same method for calculating the 12-month period in which the 12
work week FMLA and OFLA leave entitlement occurs for all employees. The County will
use the 12-month period measure forward from the date the employee's leave begins.

IX.      PAID AND UNPAID LEAVE

Family leave under federal and state law is generally unpaid. The County requires the
employee to use any accrued sick leave, vacation, personal or comp time before taking
FMLA and/or OFLA leave without pay for the leave period. The employee may select the
order in which the paid leave is used.

The County will notify the employee that the requested leave has been designated as FMLA
and/OFLA and, if required by the County, accrued leave shall be used during the leave
period. Such notification will be given to the employee prior to the commencement of the
leave or within two working days of the employee's notice of an unanticipated or emergency
leave.

When the County does not have sufficient information to make a determination of whether
the leave qualifies as FMLA or OFLA leave, the County will provide the required notice
when the information is available but not later than two working days after the County has
received the information. Oral notices will be confirmed in writing no later than the
following payday. If the payday is less than one week after the oral notice is given, written
notice will be provided no later than the subsequent payday.

X.       CONTINUATION OF HEALTH INSURANCE BENEFITS

Under federal law, group health insurance benefits and premium payments must be
continued on the same basis as coverage would have been provided and premiums paid if
the employee had been continuously employed during the leave period. The County will
continue to pay the County's contribution toward the employee's premiums. The employee
will continue to pay the employee's share of premiums. A 30-day grace period will be
allowed for receipt of the employee's share of premiums. The County's obligation to
maintain the employee's benefits will cease if the employee's contribution is more than 30
days late. The County will provide written notice that the premium is more than 30 calendar
days late. Such notice will be provided within 15 calendar days before coverage is to cease.

Under state law, County paid benefits are not required to continue and must be paid by the
employee if the employee is on unpaid status.

                                                                                           on
                                                          INSTRUMENT NO, 2009 ~ [ | lo
                                                          Pages. of_£L_Pages

The Oregon Public Employee’s Retirement System (PERS) requires employees to be in a
paid status for fifty (50) hours per month to receive creditable service for that month.
Service credit is not granted for months in which an employee is on a leave without pay.
Time spent on leave without pay also is not included in the service time used to determine
eligibility for unreduced early retirement benefits. (Refer to PERS handbook or contact
PERS for more information).

In the event the County is required to pay or elects to pay any part of the costs of providing
health or other insurance coverage for an employee during the period of FMLA or OFLA
leave that should have been paid by the employee, the County may deduct, on the
employee's return to work such amounts from the employee's pay as have been advanced.
In no event may the total amount deducted exceed ten percent of the employee's gross pay
each pay period.

An employee is not entitled to the accrual of any seniority or employment benefits that
would have accrued if not for the taking of the leave. An employee who takes family or
medical leave will not lose any seniority or employment benefits that accrued before the
date the leave began.

XI.    RESTORATION TO EMPLOYMENT

After leave, granted under federal and state law, an employee is generally entitled to be
returned to the same position that the employee held when leave commenced or to an
equivalent position with equivalent benefits, pay and other terms and conditions of
employment unless otherwise excepted by law. The Malheur County Administrator will
make a determination as to whether a position is an “equivalent position”.

If the leave was required for the employee's own serious health condition, the County may
require the employee to obtain and present certification from the health care provider that
the employee is able to resume work.

XII.    APPLICATION

Under federal law, an employee requesting FMLA and/or OFLA leave shall provide at least
30 days notice prior to the leave date if the leave is foreseeable. The notice shall be written
and include the anticipated start, duration and reasons for the requested leave. The
employee must make a reasonable effort to schedule treatment, including intermittent leave
and reduced leave, so as not to unduly disrupt the operations of the County. An application
form can be obtained in the County Administrative Office.

If advance notice is not possible, for example due to change in circumstances or medical
emergency, an employee eligible for FMLA leave must provide notice as soon as
practicable. "As soon as practicable" under federal law means at least oral notification
within one or two business days of when the need for leave becomes known to the
employee.

                                                                                              qo
                                                       INSTRUMENT yo. 2009 —1 1GY
                                                       Page_—Z.   of.   Pages

An employee eligible for OFLA leave is required, under state law, to provide oral or written
notice within 24 hours in unanticipated or emergency leave situations. The employee may
designate a family member or friend to notify the County during that period of time.

In either case, proper documentation must be submitted no later than three working days
following the employee's return to work.

Failure of an employee to provide the required notice for FMLA leave may result in the
County delaying the employee's leave for up to 30 days after the notice is ultimately given.

Failure of an employee to provide the required notice for OFLA leave under state law may
result in the County deducting up to three weeks from the employee's leave period.

XIII. MEDICAL CERTIFICATION

If the employee provides 30 or more days notice when applying for FMLA and/or OFLA
leave, employees may be required to provide medical documentation when appropriate to
support the request for leave. The County will provide written notification to employees of
this requirement within three working days of employee's request for leave. Ifthe employee
provides less than 30 days notice, the employee is required to submit such medical
certification no later than 15 calendar days after receipt of the County's notification that
medical certification is required.

Under federal law, a second medical opinion may be required whenever the County has
reason to doubt the validity of the initial medical opinion. The County may select the health
care provider.   The provider shall not be employed by the County on a regular basis.   Should
the first and second medical certification differ, a third opinion may be required. The
County and the employee will mutually agree on the selection of the health care provider for
a third medical certification. The third opinion will be final. Second and third opinions and
the actual travel expenses for an employee to obtain such opinions will be paid for by the
County.

Under state law, the County may require a second opinion and designate the health care
provider. The County may not employ the provider. Should the two opinions conflict, the
County may require a third opinion and that the two providers designate the third health care
provider. The third opinion will be final. Second and third opinions and the actual travel
expenses for the employee to obtain such opinions will be paid for by the County.

If the leave is for the purpose of an employee's own serious health condition, he/she must
also provide a fitness for duty medical release from the health care provider before returning
to work.

                                                                                                 Ol
                                                          INSTRUMENT, NO. 2009 ~ (164
                                                          Page     of.   Pages

The County may require an employee who is using OFLA leave to care for a sick child to
provide medical certification after the use of more than three days of such leave in a one-
year period. The County will pay the cost of the medical certification not covered by
insurance or other benefit plan.

XIV.    NOTIFICATION

Any notice required by federal and state law explaining employee rights and responsibilities
will be posted in the break room of the Malheur County Courthouse.               Additional
information may be obtained by contacting the County Administrative Office.

XV.     RETURN FROM LEAVE

An employee must indicate on his/her application when the employee will return to work. If
the employee wishes to return to work prior to the expiration of a family or medical leave
absence, notification must be given to the employee's supervisor and Personnel Officer or
County Administrator at least two (2) working days prior to employee's planned return.

XVI. FAILURE TO RETURN FROM LEAVE

The failure of an employee to return to work upon the expiration of a family or medical
leave of absence will subject the employee to immediate termination unless an extension is
granted. An employee who requests an extension of family or medical leave must submit a
request for extension in writing to the Personnel Officer or County Administrator. This
written request should be made as soon as the employee realizes that he or she will not be
able to return at the expiration of the leave period.

XVII.   RECORDKEEPING/POSTED NOTICE

The County will maintain all records as required by federal and state laws including dates
leave is taken by employees; identified separately from other leave; hours/days of leave,
copies of general and specific notices to employees; premium payments of employee health
benefits while on leave and records of any disputes with employees regarding granting of
leave.

Medical documentation will be maintained separately from personnel files as confidential
medical records.

                                                                                         92.
                                                            INSTRUMENT. NO, 2009 ~{ (lo
                                                            Page_{{_ofL.l_ Pages
XVIII.     FEDERAL    VS. STATE    LAW

Both federal and state laws contain provisions regarding leave for family illness. Federal
regulations state an employer must comply with both laws; that the federal law does not
supersede any provision of state law that provides greater family leave rights than those
established pursuant to federal law and state and federal leave entitlement run concurrently.
State law requires that federal and state leave run concurrently when possible. For example,
due to differences in regulations, an employee who takes leave after 180 days of
employment but before one year, is still eligible to take a full 12 work weeks of federal
leave after meeting the one year work requirement.   After the first work year, leave will run
concurrently. Generally, employees will be deemed to be using leave pursuant to state law
except in such cases where federal law provides greater benefits.

Approved: January 1995
Revised:    March 1, 2007; January 2, 2008; February 25, 2009

                                                                                            1
                                                                  MALHEURCOUNTY,OR                         2015-3325
                                                                  MRCOUNTY COURT 99/99/2016 02:55 PM
                                                                  Cnt=1 Pgs=2                                    Total:$0.00

                                                                     | 00032116201500033250020022
                                                                   1, DeborahR. DeLong, County Clerk for Malheur
                                                                   County, Oregon certify that the instrument identified
                                                                   herein was recorded in the Clerk records.
                                                                           Deborah R. DeLong - County Clerk

305-   UNPAID SICK LEAVE / NON-FMLA/OFLA MEDICAL LEAVE

UNPAID SICK LEAVE

A.     General.

Upon application by the employee, the County may grant sick leave without pay for a remaining
period of temporary short-term disability after accrued sick leave has been exhausted. The
County will require that the employee submit a certificate from a physician periodically during
the period of such disability. Unless approved by the County, an employee shall not accept
employment outside the service of the County while on sick leave, whether paid or unpaid.

B.     Policy.

1.     Employees who do not meet the eligibility of family and medical leave or have exhausted
       their family and medical leave may request non-FMLA/OFLA medical leave. This leave
       is available when the employee or employee’s family member has a serious health
       condition. Such leave may only be granted once in a 12 month period. In some
       circumstances, non-FMLA/OFLA medical leave may be available to employees as a
       reasonable accommodation under the American with Disabilities Act.

2.     To request leave, the employee must submit a statement from a health care provider
       explaining the reason and duration of the requested leave. The statement must be
       submitted to employee’s supervisor within five (5) working days of employee needing
       non-FMLA/OFLA leave. If the leave is granted, periodic updates from the health care
       provider as well as the status of employee’s intent to return to work will be required.

3.     Accrued sick, vacation and personal leave must be used. Once paid leave is exhausted,
       the remainder of the leave is unpaid.

4,     Employees who are on paid leave will remain on the county’s group health benefit plans.
       Employee must have at least 14 paid work days in a calendar month in order for the
       County to pay its portion of the monthly premiums. Once an employee commences
       unpaid leave, he/she will be required to pay the full premium directly to the County by
       the 20" of the month. Failure to pay will result in the employee’s coverage being
       terminated. If the coverage ends while the employee is on unpaid leave and the employee
       returns to work within or at the end of 90 days, coverage will be reinstated the first of the
       month following his/her return. Employees on non-FMLA leave without pay can
       continue the employer-paid life plan for up to 30 days. Coverage will terminate the end
       of the month following 30 days.

                                                                                                                               Wf
305-   UNPAID SICK LEAVE/NON-FMLA/OFLA MEDICAL LEAVE con’t

Ss,    If leave is granted at the discretion of the employee’s supervisor, the amount of leave
       cannot exceed 90 days. Typically, leave under this policy is not a job protected absence.
       Leave does not guarantee employee’s return to the same position or reinstatement to any
       position. The employee’s supervisor may, however, agree in writing to hold employee’s
       position for a specified time determined by the supervisor.

6.     If leave is denied and the employee decides not to report to work, employment ends as a
       voluntary termination effective the last day worked by the employee.

1.     In order to return to work following leave, the employee must be cleared to work by
       County and submit documentation from his/her health care provider. The decision to
       clear an employee to return to work rests with the employee’s supervisor and is based on
       the essential functions of employee’s job, the nature of the medical condition or
       procedure involved and any other reliable and objective information received by
       employee’s supervisor. Documentation to return to work from the health care provider
       must be detailed and not simply a statement that the employee may return to work. There
       must be sufficient information in the documentation for the supervisor to make a
       determination that the employee can perform the essential functions of his/her job, and
       do so without posing a significant risk of substantial harm to oneself or others. The
       documentation must also note whether there are any medical restrictions or limitations on
       the employee’s ability to perform his/her job, and any symptoms that could create a job
       hazard for the employee or other employees.

8.     If it is unclear to County whether an employee can return to work and perform the
       essential functions of his/her job, or whether he/she poses a direct threat to the health or
       safety of himself/herself to others, the supervisor may require the employee to undergo a
       fitness-for-duty-examination paid for by the County.

Approved:     January 1, 2003
Amended:      September 2, 2015                       2015-3325                Page 2 of 2
                                                      MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON

                                                                                                5
306-   UNPAID LEAVE OF ABSENCE

Leaves of absence without pay not to exceed 90 calendar days may be granted at the
discretion of the Department Head or County Court. Normally, such leave will not be
approved for an employee for the purpose of accepting employment outside the service of
the County. Such leaves may be renewed or extended upon request and at the discretion
of the County.

Approved:     January 1, 2003
Revised:

                                                                                      W
                                                                         MALHEUR COUNTY,OR
                                                                         MRCOUNTY COURT                             2017-2087
                                                                         DOCUMENT                      08/24/2017 11:18 AM

                                                                        HL
                                                                         Cnt=1 Pgs=3
                                                                                                                   ‘al:$0.00

                                                                                                       00020870030034
                                                                        1, DeborahR   DeLong,   County Clerk for Malheur

                                                                        herein was recorded in the
                                                                                                   Clerk records.
                                                                               Deborah R. DeLong - County
                                                                                                          Clerk            nf

307-   BEREAVEMENT LEAVE

Employees working a forty (40) hour workweek shall be eligible for sixteen (16) hours of paid
bereavement leave and employees working a thirty-seven and one-half (37.5) hour workweek
shall be eligible for fifteen (15) hours of paid bereavement leave per calendar year, prorated for
part-time employees, to discharge the customary obligations arising from the death of the
employee’s family member. The County may request documentation. For purposes of this paid
bereavement leave, “family member” shall be defined the same as in Malheur County Policy 303
Sick Leave and also include the employee’s aunt, uncle, niece and nephew. (Family member is
defined as an employee’s spouse, domestic partner, custodial parent, non-custodial parent,
adoptive parent, foster parent, biological parent, stepparent, parent-in-law, a parent of an
employee's domestic partner, an employee's grandparent or grandchild, or a person for whom
the employee is or was in a relationship of in loco parentis. “Family member” also includes the
biological, adopted, foster child or stepchild of an employee or the child of an employee's
domestic partner. An employee's child in any of these categories may be either a minor or an
adult at the time of bereavement leave. “Family member” also includes brother, sister, aunt,
uncle, niece or nephew but does not include cousins unless in loco parentis relationships). Paid
bereavement leave under this policy shall run concurrently with OFLA when applicable. The
County shall notify the employee when OFLA is.running concurrently with bereavement leave.

If additional leave is needed an employee may, with prior authorization, request the use of
accrued sick leave, vacation leave, compensatory time off or leave without pay. Use of accrued
sick leave is subject to the definition of family member and the requirements of Malheur County
Policy 303 Sick Leave.

BEREAVEMENT LEAVE UNDER OREGON FAMILY LEAVE ACT (OFLA)

OFLA provides up to two weeks of leave to attend the funeral or alternative to a funeral of a
family member, to make arrangements necessitated by the death of a family member, or to grieve
the death of a family member.

To be eligible for bereavement leave protected under OFLA, an employee must meet the
following four requirements:

1.     Be employed by Malheur County for a minimum of 180 days immediately prior to the
       onset of the leave; and
2:     Have worked a minimum of 25 hours per week for the 180 days immediately prior to the
       onset of the leave.   These are actual hours, and do not include sick leave, vacation, etc.;
       and
3.     Have not exhausted all 12 weeks of OFLA protected leave within the 12 months
       immediately prior to the onset of the leave; and
4.     Need time off due to the death of “family member” as defined in OFLA. “Family
       member” means the spouse, same-gender domestic partner, custodial parent, non-

                                                                                                                           a7
       custodial parent, adoptive parent, foster parent, biological parent, parent-in-law, parent
       of same-gender domestic partner, grandparent or grandchild of the employee, or a
       person with whom the employee is or was in relationship of in loco parentis.    It also
       includes the biological, adopted, foster or stepchild of an employee or the child of an
       employee ’s same-gender domestic partner.

OFLA bereavement leave can be taken for the death of each family member of the employee.
Malheur County will not require an eligible employee to take multiple leave periods concurrently
if more than one family member of the employee dies and will allow any employees with the
same family member to take concurrent leave.

This leave shall be counted towards the total period of OFLA leave allowed (generally 12
weeks), within a 12 month period. All leave taken for the death of a family member must be
complete within 60 days of the date on which the employee receives notice of the death of the
family member.

If possible employees should provide their supervisors with as much advanced notice as possible.
When advanced notice is not possible, employees must give verbal or written notice within 24
hours after commencement of the leave. This notice may be given by any other person on behalf
of employee taking unforeseeable OFLA bereavement leave. A supervisor may require written
notice by the employee within three days of the employee’s return to work.

OFLA provides job protections but does not provide benefit protections.    Therefore, an employee
will need to speak with the Personnel Officer to determine if the County will pay its portion of
the health insurance premium. Employees may use leave accruals (sick leave etc.) during
OFLA bereavement leave. If leave accruals are not available, leave may be taken without pay.

To request OFLA bereavement leave, an employee should complete the form attached and
submit it to his or her supervisor. Once the Personnel Officer receives the request, a notice of
eligibility determination will be mailed to the employee’s home address.

Approved:        January 1, 2003; June 6, 2014
Revised:         May 24, 2017 .

                                   2017-2087                Page 2
                                   MALHEUR COUNTY,
                                                   OREGON      sewers

                                                                                                    98
                    OFLA BEREAVEMENT LEAVE REQUEST FORM

Employees should use this form to request time off for funeral/bereavement leave under OFLA.
This leave can be for up to two weeks of leave. An employee may use leave accruals such as
vacation, sick, and personal during this period.

Employee Name:

Relationship of Family Member (Choose One):

© spouse                               o foster parent                a loco parentis relationship
0 same-gender domestic partner         O biological parent            o child of employee
Q custodial parent                     O parent-in-law                o child of same-gender
0 non-custodial parent                 O parent of domestic partner    domestic partner
a adoptive parent                      © grandparent                  O other:
                                       0 grandchild

Date of Knowledge of Death:

Beginning Date of Leave:

Date Returning to Work:

If leave will be taken on an intermittent basis, please provide schedule here:

Employee’s signature           date

Oo     Approved leave under OFLA.

0      Not approved for leave under OFLA for the following reason:

       Signed by Personnel Officer:

                              2017-2087                Page 3 of 3
                              MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON
                                                                                                     99
308-   PAID VACATION BENEFITS

Full time employees, who have worked for Malheur County for at least twelve
consecutive months, are entitled to vacation benefits. Vacation must be approved in
advance through the employee’s supervisor. Supervisors schedule vacations paying
attention to coverage of necessary work. The number of hours of vacation earned per
month varies by the number of years of employment as follows:

                      Years 1—5:     1 day per month =
                                     12 days per year

                      Years6—10      1% days per month =
                                     15 days per year

                      Years 11-15    1% days per month =
                                     18 days per year

                      Years 16       2 days per month =
                      and over       24 days per year

       Employees, who work at half-time, but less than full-time, earn vacation on a pro-
       rated basis. Employees who work less than half-time are not entitled to vacation
       benefits.

       Upon the employee’s death, accrued and unused vacation leave will be paid to the
       employee’s estate.

       The maximum accumulation of vacation leave of any employee is 25 workdays.

       Vacation leave shall not accrue during an absence without pay.

Approved:   — January 1, 2003
Revised:

                                                                                          |OoO
309 -   DONATION OF VACATION BENEFITS

        In the event an employee exhausts all their vacation, sick and other paid leaves of
        absence and the employee has a long term health condition, injury or illness,
        fellow employees from within the same department or office may donate hours of
        their own accumulated vacation leave to the employee, as long as the donated
        hours are below the maximum number of hours the employee is allowed to
        accumulate under these policies or collective bargaining agreement. Such
        donations must be made in writing by the donor and submitted to the Personnel
        Officer. Donations must be approved by the Malheur County Court.

        Nothing in this policy precludes Malheur County from counting the donated
        vacation leave as leave against the donee’s annual FMLA or OFLA leave.

        Donated leave will be paid at the donee’s rate of pay and not the donor’s rate of
        pay.

        A maximum of 40 hours of vacation leave per long term condition, injury or
        illness of the employee may be donated.

        Approved:      January 1, 2003
        Revised:

                                                                                            /ol
310-        PAID HOLIDAY BENEFIT

            The following days shall be paid holidays for all employee whose normal work
            schedule requires the employee to be on duty the day before or the day after such
            holiday, excluding weekends:

                     New Year’s Day, January 1
             oO wp

                     Martin Luther King Jr.’s Birthday, third Monday in January
       SP TOmMM

                     President’s Day, third Monday in February
                     Memorial Day, last Monday in May
                     Independence Day, 4" of July
                     Labor Day, first Monday in September
                     Veteran’s Day, November 11
                     Thanksgiving Day, fourth Thursday in November
                     Day after Thanksgiving
                     Christmas Day, December 25

            The Malheur County Court may grant additional days. Ifthe holiday is on a
            Sunday, the paid holiday is on the following Monday. If the holiday is ona
            Saturday, the paid holiday is the proceeding Friday.

            Approved:     — January 1, 2003
            Revised:

                                                                                           102
                                      INSTRUMENT NO,                -
311-       RETIREMENT                 Page_!   of!     Pages             inte

A. Oregon Public Employee Retirement System (PERS)
All qualified employees are required by Oregon law to belong to PERS, and the Federal
Social Security Old Age, Survivors and Disability Insurance. The State and Federal
Governments determine rates.

B. Employment of Retirees
An exemplary employee who is otherwise qualified to retire under PERS may retire, and
at the sole discretion of the Malheur County Court, become reemployed. PERS retirees
are limited to working a maximum of 1039 hours in a calendar year without affecting
their retirement benefits. PERS retirees have a responsibility to assist Malheur County in
tracking their re-employment hours in a calendar year so their employment does not
jeopardize their retirement status.

Retired employees will be rehired pursuant to an employment agreement. Reemployment
is for a limited duration and is less than .5 FTE (1039 hours in a calendar year is .49
FTE). Retired employees are not members of the collective bargaining units. They do not
accrue paid holiday, vacation, sick leave or personal leave and do not receive any cost-of-
living increases. Retirees are eligible to participate in voluntary Deferred Compensation
Plans.     Retired employees may be eligible for employer contribution to the employee’s
health insurance as would be provided to a full-time (1.0 FTE) employee (currently paid
at 85% employer and 15% employee per month). However, this insurance benefit is
subject to procedures specified by the carrier and Malheur County and may be modified,
suspended or eliminated by Malheur County. Any such action will automatically bind
retired employees. Insurance may also be available through PERS. Retirees should
contact PERS in order to make fully informed decisions about their re-employment and
benefit choices.

                                                               MALHEUR COUNTY, OR                      201 0-6430

                                                               DReUMeSe 10/20/2010 02:29 PM
Approved:        January 1, 2003                                                                          Total: $0.00
Revised:          October 20, 2010                              |                 |     |       | |                |

                                                                        0000033920100006430001001
                                                                                       0          3
                                                               |, Deborah R. DeLong, County Clerk for Malheur County,
                                                               Oregon certify that the Instrument Identified herein was
                                                                recorded In the Clerk records.
                                                                         Deborah R. DeLong - County Clerk

                                                                                                                          103
312—-   DEFERRED      COMPENSATION PLAN

        Deferred compensation plans are available to all employees at their option. Plan
        information may be obtained from the Personnel Officer.

        Approved:      January 1, 2003
        Revised:

                                                                                           10H
313 -       WORKERS’ COMPENSATION INSURANCE

            All employees of Malheur County are covered by workers’ compensation insurance.

            Benefit
            When an employee is injured while performing his/her duties and qualifies for workers’
            compensation, the employee may:

            Elect to receive only workers’ compensation benefits and not use any of his/ her
            accumulated sick leave; or

            Elect to receive workers’ compensation benefits and use his/her accumulated sick leave
            to make up the difference between the amount of the workers’ compensation benefits
            received and his/her normal salary or hourly wage.    Accumulated sick leave may be used
            in this manner until depleted, at which time the employee will be eligible to receive only
            workers’ compensation benefits, if any remain available. For example, if an employee
            normally earns $70 per day, and he/she receives $50 per day in workers’ compensation
            benefits, he/she may elect to receive $20 per day from accumulated sick leave until
            accumulated sick leave is depleted or workers’ compensation benefits terminate.

            Volunteers
            Employees shall request volunteers working within their offices and departments to
            complete a volunteer form with the Personnel Officer so that they are subject to Malheur
            County’s workers’ compensation insurance.

            Claim/Report
            Employees must file a workers’ compensation claim with the Personnel Officer within 90
            days of a work-related injury or one year of learning that the employee has an
            occupational disease. Failure to comply with these time frames may result in the denial
            of the employee’s claim. Work related fatalities must be reported to the Personnel
            Officer within four (4) hours of the occurrence.   Accidents resulting in hospitalization
            overnight with medical treatment must be reported to the Personnel Officer within twelve
            (12) hours of the accidents.   The Personnel Officer has forms for reporting injuries.
            Other than the types of injuries specified above, it is mandatory that every injury incurred
            on the job be reported to the Personnel Officer within twenty-four (24) hours.

                                                                           MALHEUR COUNTY, OR                                      gl
                                                                           MRCOUNTY COURT                           201      6          1 596
                                                                           DOCUMENT                       08/11/2016 01:41 PM
                                                                           Cnt=1 Pgs=3                              Total:$0.00

                                                                           MN III                  01600015960030034
                                                                           |, Deborah R. DeLong, County Clerk for Malheur
        1      Workers’ Compensation Insurance                             County, Oregon certify that the instrument identified
                                                                           herein was recorded in the Clerk records.
                                                                                                                                          nL
                                                                                   Deborah R. DeLong- County Clerk

                                                                                                                              105
    313-   WORKERS’ COMPENSATION INSURANCE continued

    Return to Work

    If you require workers’ compensation leave, you will — under most circumstances — be
    reinstated to the same position that you held at the time your leave began, or to an
    equivalent position, if available. However, you must first submit an approved medical
    certificate demonstrating your ability to return to work.
    When returning from a workers’ compensation leave you have no greater right to
    reinstatement than if you had been continuously employed rather than on leave. For
    example, if you would have been laid off had you not been on leave, or if your position is
    eliminated, and no equivalent or comparable positions are available, then you may not be
    entitled to reinstatement. These are only examples and all reinstatement/reemployment
    decisions are subject to the terms of any applicable collective bargaining agreement.
    Malheur County does not discriminate against employees who suffer a workplace injury
    or illness.

    Early Return-to-Work Program

    Our Return-to- Work program provides guidelines for retuming you to work at the earliest
    possible time after you have suffered an on-the-job injury or illness that results in time
    loss. This program is not intended as a substitute for reasonable accommodation when an
    injured employee also qualifies as an individual with a disability. The Return-to-Work
    Program is intended to be transitional work, to enable you to return to your regular job in
    a reasonable period of time.
    The Return-to-Work program for job-related injuries consists of a team effort by Malheur
    County, injured employees and their treating physicians, and our workers’ compensation
    insurance carrier claims staff. The goal is to return our employees to full employment at
    the earliest possible date that is consistent with their medical condition and the advice of
    the treating physician.
    If your doctor determines that you are able to perform modified work, County will
    attempt to provide you with a temporary job assignment for a reasonable period of time
    until you can resume your regular duties (except where provided as an accommodation
    for a disability). If, due to a work related injury, you are offered a modified position that
    has been medically approved, failure to phone in or report at the designated time and
    place may affect your compensation and employment with County. While you are on
    modified or transitional work, you are still subject to all other County rules and
    procedures.

2      Workers’ Compensation Insurance

                                                     2016-1596                 Page 2 of 3
                                                      MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON

                                                                                                106
313-       WORKERS’ COMPENSATION INSURANCE continued

    Overlap with Other Laws
    County will account for other leave and disability laws that might also apply to your
    situation, such as the ADA    and FMLA      or OFLA.     If, after returning from a workers’
    compensation   leave, it is determined    that you are unable to perform the essential
    functions of your position because of a qualifying disability, you may be entitled to a
    reasonable accommodation, as governed by the Americans with Disabilities Act and/or
    applicable Oregon laws covering disabilities in the workplace.

    Approved:      January 1, 2003
    Revised:       May 11, 2016

3     Workers’ Compensation Insurance

                                             2016-1596                Page 3 of 3
                                             MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON

                                                                                              107
314-   MEDICAL, DENTAL AND VISION INSURANCE

       Employees, and their dependents, who work for Malheur County at least one-half
       time are eligible for the County’s health insurance program. Malheur County
       provides group health, dental and vision care insurance programs for employees
       and their eligible dependents subject to enrollment periods and procedures
       specified by the carrier and Malheur County. Malheur County has the sole
       discretion to choose the insurance carrier or carriers.

       Premiums are subject to rate changes. Caps may be placed on the amount of
       premium Malheur County will pay and the remainder will be paid by the
       employee.

       Waiting periods must be followed.

       Premium payments are made through payroll deductions and, at the employee’s
       request, can be made with pre-tax salary or wages.

       For more information on Malheur County’s group insurance plans, employees
       may contact the Personnel Officer.

       Approved:     January 1, 2003
       Revised:

                                                                                     108
315-   HEALTH INSURANCE            CONTINUATION          (COBRA)

       The federal Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (COBRA) gives
       employees and their qualified beneficiaries the opportunity to continue health
       insurance coverage under their employer’s health plan when a “qualifying event         29

       would normally result in the loss of eligibility (i.e., work separation, death of an
       employee, a reduction in employee’s hours, leave of absence, an employee’s
       divorce or legal separation, or a dependent child who is no longer meeting the
       requirements).

       Under COBRA, the employee or beneficiary pays the full cost of coverage at the
       group rates. The County will provide each employee with a written summary
       designating rights and obligations granted under COBRA when the employee
       become eligible for coverage under the County’s insurance plan.

       Additional information on COBRA benefits is contained in the employee’s health
       benefit booklet.

       Approved:      January 1, 2003
       Revised:

                                                                                                   109
                                                                MALHEURCOUNTY,OR                        2015-3799
                                                                MRCOUNTY COURT
                                                                DOCUMENT                     10/21/2015          01:11   PM
                                                                Cnt=1 Pgs=1                                   Total:$0.00

                                                                A                06201500037990010016
                                                               |, Deborah R. DeLong, County Clerk for Malheur
                                                               County, Oregon certify that the instrument identified
                                                               herein was recorded In the Clerk records.
                                                                      Deborah R. DeLong - County Clerk
316-   LIFE INSURANCE

       An employee that works at least half time (18.75 hrs/wk) will automatically be enrolled
       for employer paid $20,000 Group Basic Life/AD&D. Upon the death of the employee,
       $20,000 will be paid to the employee’s designated beneficiary. Supplemental life
       insurance can be purchased covering the employee, employee’s spouse and/or
       employee’s dependent children. Election for Supplemental life can be made during open
       enrollment or following a qualifying life event. Supplemental life insurance is subject to
       medical underwriting. For more information contact the Personnel Officer. The full
       policy can be found on the Malheur County website under Employee Services.

       Life insurance is not a pre-tax, payroll deduction.

Approved:     January 1, 2003
Revised:      October 21, 2015

                                                                                                                         [lo
317 - DISABILITY, CANCER, ACCIDENTAL, INTENSIVE CARE INSURANCE

     In an effort to provide customized benefits to our employees, the County makes
     available American Life Assurance Company of Columbus (AFLAC)’s personal
     Short-Term Disability, Cancer, Accident and Intensive Care Insurance Policies.
     The employee is responsible for the total costs of these benefits. However, the
     County makes them available to employees through payroll deductions so the
     employee can receive these benefits at payroll rates and with pre-tax savings, if
     elected by the employee. Plans available now include:

     Personal Short Term Disability
     3-month, 6-month or 12-month disability plans that covers sickness and injury.

     Cancer
     Benefits for treatment of cancer including first occurrence, radiation and
     chemotherapy, hospital confinement, surgery, cancer screening, bone marrow
     transplant, stem cell transplant, transportation, hospice, wellness screening and
     more.

     Accident/Disability
     Benefits available for accident emergency treatment, accident hospital income,
     accidental death and wellness benefits with options for accident/sickness
     disability.

     Intensive Care
     Benefits for covered confinement in hospital intensive care units, coronary
     intensive care units or neonatal intensive care units.

     These policies pay regardless of any other health coverage. Benefits are paid
     directly to the employee unless the employee assigns the benefits, to assist with
     loss of income, non-medical costs and other personal expenses.

     For more information about these benefits and costs, please contact the Personnel
     Officer.

     Approved:      January 1, 2003
     Revised:

                                                                                         Itt
318-   UNEMPLOYMENT         INSURANCE

       Malheur County provides unemployment compensation through the State of
       Oregon Unemployment Insurance Fund as provided for under State law (ORS
       657).

       Approved:    January 1, 2003
       Revised:

                                                                                 Wa
319-   EMPLOYEE       ASSISTANCE PROGRAM               (EAP)

       A confidential service is provided to all employees covered by our health
       insurance benefits (those who work in regular, full-time positions) and their
       covered dependents who may be experiencing life problems (coping with
       emotional stress, dealing with psychological problems, marital or family
       difficulties, depression, eating disorders, alcohol or other drug-related problems,
       communication problems stemming from work situation, financial problems etc.).
       Sick leave may be used for EAP appointments and all sessions are confidential.

Approved:     January 1, 2003
Revised:
320-   CAFETERIA OR FLEXIBLE PLAN

       Malheur County sponsors an employee benefit program known as a “Flexible
       Benefits Plan”. Under federal tax laws, it is also known as a “cafeteria plan”. It
       is so-called because it lets the employee choose from several different insurance
       and fringe benefit programs according to individual needs. Malheur County
       provides the employee with the opportunity to use pre-tax dollars to pay for them
       by entering into a salary redirection agreement instead of corresponding amounts
       of regular pay. This arrangement helps the employee because the benefits are
       non-taxable; the employee saves social security and income taxes on the amount
       of the salary redirection.   Alternatively, the employee may choose to pay for any
       of the available benefits with after-tax contributions on a salary deduction basis.
       Currently, the premium payments on the following policies are available for
       election by eligible employees to be paid with pre-tax dollars as a payroll
       deduction:

              group medical insurance
              vision care insurance
              cancer insurance
              group dental coverage
              intensive care insurance
              accident insurance
              hospital indemnity insurance

       Approved:      January 1, 2003
       Revised:

                                                                                         HA
  321-      Lactation Breaks
                                       INSTRUMENT NO. 2008 -20
                                       Page     of   2. Pages
                                                                                     FLEE
                                                                                          JAN O Qeuts
                                                                                DEBORAH R. DELONG County Clerk
                                                                                ay      i          F    % age
  General                                                                        < \, 0      Childe aputy
  a.        In compliance with Oregon law, Malheur County will take measures to ensure
            that all women employees of Malheur County are provided with an adequate
            location for the expression of milk. Specifically, Malheur County will make
            reasonable efforts to provide a private room or other location in close proximity to
            the employee’s work area, other than a restroom or toilet stall, where the
            employee can express her milk in privacy.

  b.        Information about this policy will be provided to new employees and supervisors
            to pregnant employees upon notification of their pregnancy.

  Accessible Private Room

  a.        An accessible private room with a lock shall be provided where a nursing woman
            can extract milk to be stored for later use. The room will have accessible
            electrical outlets, be a comfortable temperature and contain a chair. The room
            may include the employee’s work area, lounge or nearby child care facility. The
            room will be posted when use by the employee.

  Storage

  a.        The employee is responsible for the proper storage of all equipment, milk and
            supplies. For areas without a refrigerator, employees will be provided with a
            secure area to store a personal ice chest or thermos.

  Work Schedule

~ a.        Employees will be allowed breaks to express milk. Employees are allowed one
            30-minute rest period to express milk during each 4-hour work period, to be taken
            “approximately in the middle of the work period.” An employee taking a rest
            period to express milk, should take it, if feasible at the same time as the rest or
            meal periods otherwise provided to the employee. Ifthe time or time periods
            exceed normal lunch and other breaks, the rest periods for expressing milk are
            unpaid. However, an employee is entitled to use any paid accrued sick leave, paid
            accrued vacation leave or other paid leave that Malheur County offers in lieu of
            vacation leave during the rest periods used by the employee to express milk. If
            the employee does not have any accrued paid leave and the employee’s health
            insurance plan is based on the number of hours worked, the rest periods will be
            considered paid work hours.

                                                                                                    HS
                                            INSTRUMENT NO. 2008 ~LO
                                            Page     cdot .& Pages

321 — Lactation Breaks continued

b.     Rest periods to express milk may not cause an undue hardship on the operations
       of Malheur County or the employee’s office or department.

e,     Rest periods must be approved by the employee’s supervisor.

Approved:     January 2, 2008
Revised:

                                             :                as                        I!&
                                                                   MALHEURCOUNTY,OR                        2015-4328
                                                                   MR OO ORT 42/09/2015 10:62 AM
                                                                   Cnt=1    Pgs=2                                Total:$0.00

322 - DOMESTIC          VIOLENCE   LEAVE                                00033563201500043280020021
                                                                   1, Deborah R. DeLong, County Clerk for Malheur
                                                                   County, Oregon certify that the instrument identified   e
                                                                   herein was recorded in the Clerk records.
                                                                           Deborah R. DeLong - County Clerk
Purpose

Malheur County realizes that employees or their minor dependents who are victims of
domestic violence, sexual assault or stalking may have needs which require time away
from work.    Malheur County will work with employees to assess how existing paid and
unpaid leave options may be used to help meet these needs.

Eligibility for Leave

An employee may take leave to seek legal or law enforcement assistance or remedies, to
seek medical treatment for or recover from injuries, to seek counseling from a licensed
mental health professional, to obtain services from a victim services provider, to relocate
or secure an existing home or to use other resources required to increase the employee’s
and the employee’s minor dependent’s immediate safety.

Unpaid Leave

The employee may use accrued sick, vacation, personal or compensatory paid time off
while on domestic violence leave. Malheur County will also provide reasonable unpaid
leave to an employee to address domestic violence, sexual assault or stalking of the
employee or his or her minor dependents. Depending on the circumstances, leave under
this policy may overlay with other types of unpaid leave, including crime-victim leave,
FMLA/OFLA leave and reasonable accommodations under state and federal disability
laws.

Certification of Need For Leave

Malheur County may require certification of the need for leave, such as a police report,
protective order or other evidence of a court proceeding, or documentation from a law
enforcement officer, attorney, health care professional, member of the clergy, or victim
services provider. Any information obtained about an employee’s circumstances relating
to domestic violence leave will be kept confidential in a secure file separate from the
employee’s personnel file.

                                                                                                                 [17
322 - DOMESTIC VIOLENCE LEAVE continued

Safety and Security of Employee

Employees with protective or restraining orders that reference the employee’s worksite
must provide their supervisor with a copy of the order. Employees who are concerned
about their safety in the workplace due to domestic violence should also notify their
supervisor.   In response to these notifications, Malheur County will explore security
options to be implemented to minimize the risk of threats or acts of domestic violence to
the employee. Malheur County’s response will take into consideration the needs and
rights of the employee and others in the workplace while maintaining confidentiality
when to do so does not interfere with safety needs. Malheur County reserves the right to
make limited disclosure of employee’s circumstance and take action when it is clearly
necessary to protect the safety of other employees.

Approved:       January 2, 2008
Revised:        December 9, 2015

                           2015-4328                Page 2 of 2
                           MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON
                                                                                            112
                                                                     MALHEURCOUNTY,OR                           2014-1836
                                                                    MRCOUNTY COURT
                                                                    DOCUMENT                         06/06/2014 12:36 PM
                                                                    Cnt=1 Pgs=1                                Total:$0.00

323   =   VETERANS   DAY
                                                                    AMI                  0201400018360010019
                                                                    |, Deborah R. DeLong, County Clerk for Malheur
                                                                    County,   Oregon   certify that the instrument identifled   ‘ey
                                                                    herein was recorded in the Clerk records.
                                                                              Deborah R. DeLong - County Clerk

Malheur County will provide eligible employees with time off time on Veterans Day if the
employee would otherwise be required to work on that day. Employees are eligible if they
served on active duty in the Armed Forces for at least six months and received a discharge under
honorable conditions.

Military service in a reserve or National Guard unit does not qualify an employee as a veteran for
the purpose of this time off, unless the employee was deployed or served on active duty for at
least six months. Malheur County may require the employee to provide documents establishing
his or her status as an eligible veteran.

Employees seeking Veterans Day off should make the request with at least 21 days’ advanced
notice. Malheur County will notify the employee, at least 14 days before Veterans Day, whether
he or she will receive time off for Veterans Day and whether the time will be paid or unpaid. If
Malheur County determines that providing time off on this holiday will cause significant
economic or operational disruption or undue hardship, Malheur County will deny the request. In
this circumstance Malheur County will allow the employee a single day off before the following
Veterans Day in order to honor the employee’s military service. This day off will be in addition
to any other time off to which the employee would otherwise be entitled.

If Malheur County cannot provide time off to all the veterans who request it, Malheur County
will deny the day off either to all veterans or to the minimum number of employees needed to
avoid significant economic or operational disruption or undue hardship.

Alen Pfeye
Approved:      June 4, 2014
Revised:

                                                                                                                  119
                                   SECTION 400
                               HEALTH AND SAFETY
                                  Table of Contents

                                                      ie
                                                       is)
                                                       oO
400-   Smoking and Vaping                             {21

401-   Drug and Alcohol Free Workplace                {22

402-   Occupational Safety and Health Manual          136

403-   Identification Badges                          137

404-   Pre-Employment Drug Testing Policy Statement   138

405-   Inclement Weather and Closure Policy           139

                                                       120
                                                                MALHEURCOUNTY,OR                        2016-0629
                                                                MRCOUNTY COURT
                                                                DOCUMENT                     02/24/2016 11:15 AM
                                                                Cnt=1 Pgs=1                            Total:$0.00

                                                                             MA
                                                                    00034763201600006290010014
                                                               |, Deborah R. DeLong, County Clerk for Malheur
                                                               County, Oregon certify that the instrument identified
                                                               herein was recorded in the Clerk records.
                                                                       Deborah R. DeLong - County Clerk                Md

400-   SMOKING AND VAPING

Smoking, vaping and the use of any inhalant delivery system (e-cigarettes, vape pen, e-hookah)
is not permitted in any County facility or in County owned vehicles at any time.               Malheur
County complies with State law prohibiting smoking and the use of e-cigarettes and other
inhalant delivery systems in public buildings.

Approved:      January 1, 2003
Revised:       February 24, 2016

                                                                                                            IZ!
                                                                              MALHEURCOUNTY,OR                         2015-2685
                                                                              MRCOUNTY COURT
                                                                              DOCUMENT                      07/22/2015 02:16 PM
                                                                              Cnt=1 Pgs=14                                  Total:$0.00

                                                                                MI 00031                  500026850140140
                                                                              1, DeborahR. DeLong, County Clerk for Malheur
                                                                              County, Oregon certify that the instrument identified
                                                                              herein was recorded in the Clerk records.
                                                                                      Deborah R. DeLong - County Clerk

401-     DRUG AND ALCOHOL FREE WORKPLACE

Malheur County is committed to provide a safe work environment and to foster the well-being
and health of its employees. That commitment is jeopardized when employees misuse controlled
substances, prescription or illegal drugs or alcoholic beverages. Therefore, Malheur County has
established this policy. This policy is intended to comply with and supplement the Drug Free
Workplace Act of 1988.

I.      POLICY STATEMENT:

Malheur County prohibits the manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, transfer, sale or
use of any alcoholic liquor, intoxicant, narcotic, hallucinogen, stimulant, sedative drug,
marijuana, or controlled substance (collectively “substances” or “drugs and alcohol”) and having
to a detectable degree!, controlled substances present in the employee’s body, while performing
duties for Malheur County, inclusive of breaks or during lunch. If use of such substances
adversely affects an employee’s physical or mental facilities at work to a reasonable suspicion
and the employee tests “positive” for such substances by screening and confirmation tests, the
employee will be deemed in violation of this policy. As used in this policy, “controlled
substance” includes, but is not limited to, any controlled substance listed in Schedules 1 through
V of the Federal Controlled Substance Act, including marijuana that is otherwise lawful to use
under Oregon, Washington or any other state’s law.

Il.      PRESCRIPTION DRUGS AND MEDICAL MARIJUANA:

With the exception of medical marijuana, nothing in this rule is intended to prohibit the use of a
drug taken under supervision by a licensed health care professional, where its use does not
present a safety hazard or otherwise adversely impact an employee’s performance or County
operations. Any employee who is required to take any medication (prescribed or over-the-
counter) with side effects which impair his/her ability to fully and safely perform all
requirements of his/her position, shall report the need for such medication to his/her immediate
supervisor prior to commencing work. No employee shall be permitted to work or drive a
County vehicle while taking such potentially impairing medication without a written release
from the employee’s physician. County may reassign the employee using medication to other
work or take other appropriate action to accommodate the effects of the medication. Failure to
report use of prescription drugs covered by this rule will subject an employee to disciplinary
action, up to and including termination.

' Detectable degree is above, confirmed or “positive” for the most current cutoff concentrations for initial tests and
confirming tests expressed in nanogram per milliliter used by laboratories for DOT drug testing when testing for the
following controlled substances: marijuana (THC) , cocaine, opiates, phencyclidene (PCP) and amphetamines
(AMP/MAMP).

                                                                                                                                          [22.
401-    DRUG AND ALCOHOL             FREE WORKPLACE            POLICY continued

The use of medical marijuana, which is a Schedule 1 controlled substance under federal law, is
expressively prohibited under this policy, even if its medical use is authorized under any state’s
law. Malheur County will not agree to allow an employee to use medical marijuana as an
accommodation under the County’s disability accommodation policy.

I.     VIOLATIONS:

Violations of this policy include, but are not limited to the following:

1      For any employee to manufacture, distribute, sell, buy, provide, trade, transfer, offer for
       sale or possess for the purpose of buying, selling or providing an alcoholic liquor/
       intoxicant or controlled substance, including marijuana, while on County property or in
       County vehicles or equipment, or during work hours, including paid rest and meal
       periods.

2      Being at work with a blood alcohol content that reaches or exceeds .02% by
       volume/weight of alcohol in the blood or consuming alcoholic intoxicants while in
       County vehicles or equipment at any time, or on County property, including rest and meal
       periods.

3.     Possession of drugs and alcohol, including marijuana, while on County property or in
       County vehicles or equipment at any time.      With the exception of marijuana, this
       excludes substances that have been medically prescribed for an employee’s own use.

4.     For any employee to use lawfully prescribed drugs at work in a manner other than
       directed by the employee’s health professional (such as, taking it in excessive quantities
       or by unlawfully obtaining it for purpose of abuse) or in a way that presents a safety
       hazard or otherwise adversely impacts an employee’s performance or County operations.

De     For an employee to have a detectable amount of a controlled substance, including
       marijuana, present in the body while on County property, on County time or in County
       vehicles or equipment at any time. An employee has controlled substance present in the
       body when the employee test positive in blood or urine tests administered by the County
       for drug testing. This excludes substances that have been prescribed for an employee’s
       own use unless it is medical marijuana or paragraph 4 above applies.

6.     To bring marijuana, in any form or in any food (i.e. marijuana brownies) or other item
       prepared with marijuana into the work place or on work premises.

                                                                   2015-2685                Page 2 of 14
                                                                   MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON

                                                                                                           123
401 -   DRUG AND ALCOHOL FREE WORKPLACE POLICY continued

        To bring marijuana-related equipment or any devices marketed for use or designed
        specifically for use in ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing marijuana or other
        drugs such as pipes, bongs, “vape” pens, smoking masks, roach clips and/or other drug
        paraphernalia into the work place or on work premises.

        To bring marijuana or drug paraphernalia to the work place or on work premises,
        including any equipment, products or materials of any kind which are marketed for use or
        designed for use in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing or manufacturing
        marijuana or other drugs, including live or dried marijuana plants.

        Failure of employee to notify County of a charge, arrest or conviction under any criminal
        drug or alcohol statute pursuant to section VI below.

10.     Failure of employee to report the use of medication (prescribed or over-the-counter) to
        employee’s supervisor if required to do so under section II above.

IV.     REASONABLE SUSPICION FOR TESTING/SEARCH:

        Before a supervisor, acting on behalf of the County under this policy, may require an
        employee to consent and submit to test(s) specified in this policy, the supervisor must
        first obtain concurrence from the department head, elected official, County Judge or
        Personnel Officer that the information available to the County about the subject employee
        is sufficient to determine reasonable suspicion that prohibited conduct will be established
        as a result of such test(s).

        Reasonable suspicion as used in this policy means an articulable belief based on
        specific facts and reasonable inferences drawn from those facts that an employee is more
        likely than not used drugs or alcohol in violation of this policy. Circumstances which can
        constitute a basis for   determining “reasonable suspicion” may include, but are not
        limited to:

                                                             2015-2685                Page 3 of 14
                                                             MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON

                                                                                                     124
401 -     DRUG AND ALCOHOL FREE WORKPLACE POLICY continued

                a pattern of abnormal or erratic behavior;
         oP

                information provided by reliable and credible source;
                a work related accident;
         fe

                direct observation of drug or alcohol use;
                presence of physical symptoms of drug or alcohol use (i.e. glassy or
         2

                bloodshot eyes, odor, slurred speech, poor coordination and/or reflexes);
                employee admissions regarding alcohol or drug use;
        rh

                unexplained absences from normal work areas where there is reason to
                suspect drug or alcohol related activity;
        pga

                unexplained significant deterioration in individual job performance; and
                unexplained or suspicious absenteeism or tardiness.

         Supervisors are to detail in writing specific facts, symptoms or observations which
         form the basis for reasonable suspicion to warrant testing or a search. The Personnel
         Officer or another witness should assist supervisory personnel to corroborate findings.
         A reasonable suspicion observation form is attached to this policy. All facts and
         circumstances upon which the reasonable suspicion testing is based, shall be given to the
         employee when he or she is notified for the test results.

         Supervisors will be trained on reasonable suspicion in accordance with paragraph XIV
         below.

         TESTING:

         When the County has a reasonable suspicion that an employee has a controlled substance,
         including marijuana, present in the body, the County may require that the employee
         immediately consent and submit to tests and sampling (blood, urine or breathalyzer test)
         at an approved laboratory or hospital. The County shall pay for costs of the tests. A
         refusal to consent and submit to any of these tests shall be deemed the same as a positive
         test result. At the time of adopting this policy, the approved laboratory is Bio-Med
         Testing Services, Inc.

         When an employee is notified he or she is required to consent and submit to such test or
         to a search as described in section VII of this policy, he or she may request the
         presence of a witness (i.e. union representative, another employee) to the test or search.
         The test or search may not be unduly delayed to wait for a witness. The absence of a
         witness shall not be grounds for the employee to refuse to consent and submit to such
         test or search, however the County shall make every reasonable effort to provide a
         witness. The presence of a witness shall not disrupt or interfere with a test or search.

                                                             2015-2685                Page
                                                                                        4 of 14
                                                             MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON

                                                                                                    125
401 -   DRUG AND ALCOHOL              FREE WORKPLACE             POLICY continued

        The employee shall give consent to a blood, urine or breathalyzer test by signing a
        consent form. This policy and the consent form will be discussed with employee at the
        employee’s orientation, during an employee’s evaluation or updated annually and
        disseminated to employees via email or through the employee’s supervisor. A consent
        form is attached to this policy. The consent form is in addition to any authorization form
        required by the approved laboratory.

        Over-the-counter medications which may be in the employee’s body may be submitted
        by employee in a sealed envelope to be opened by the Medical Review Officer if the test
        result is positive. The Medical Review Officer may be assigned by the approved
        laboratory (i.e. Bio-Med) or, at the discretion of County, be a physician assigned by
        the County.

        The drug testing process shall be one that is scientifically proven to be at least as accurate
        and valid as urinalysis using an immunoassay screening test, with all positive results
        being confirmed utilizing gas chromatography/mass spectrometry before a sample is
        considered positive. The alcohol testing process shall be one that is scientifically proven
        to be at least as accurate and valid as (1) urinalysis using an enzymatic assay screening
        test, with the positive screening results being confirmed using gas chromatography before
        a sample is considered positive, or (2) breath sample testing using breath analyzing
        instruments which meet NIDA/SAMSAH testing standards.

        An employee whose initial laboratory screening test yields a positive result shall be given
        a second test. The second test shall use a portion of the same test sample withdrawn
        from the employee for use in the initial screening test. If the second test confirms the
        initial positive test result, the employee shall be notified of the results in writing. The
        letter of notification shall state the particular substance identified by the laboratory tests.
        The employee may request a test of the sample within 24 hours of receiving the letter of
        notification, but such testing shall be paid for by the employee. If the second test is
        negative County will reimburse Employee for cost of second test when done by County’s
        approved laboratory. Employee may choose an independent laboratory approved by the
        State of Oregon for this test, if appropriate arrangements and costs can be made by
        employee.     Reimbursement of costs by the County if a second test is negative is not
        available to Employee when Employee uses an independent laboratory.

        The procedure to obtain, handle and store blood and urine samples and to conduct
        laboratory tests shall be documented to establish procedural integrity and chain of
        evidence. Such procedures shall be administered with due regard for the employee’s
        privacy and the need to maintain confidentiality of test results to an extent which is not
        inconsistent with the needs of this policy.

                                                                2015-2685                Page 5 of 14
                                                                MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON

                                                                                                        I2G
401-        DRUG AND ALCOHOL          FREE WORKPLACE           POLICY continued

8,      The employee shall have the right to explain a confirmed positive test result for a
        controlled substance or for alcohol to the Medical Review Officer.

VI.     REPORTING BY EMPLOYEE TO COUNTY OF CRIMES INVOLVING DRUGS
        AND ALCOHOL

iF      Any employee charged with a criminal drug or alcohol statutory violation, which has
        occurred in the workplace or while performing duties for Malheur County, shall
        immediately (within 5 calendar days) provide his/her supervisor notification of such
        charge. Failure of the employee to report as required will result in disciplinary action up
        to and including termination. Each supervisor having knowledge of or upon receiving
        notification as described above shall notify the Personnel Officer.

2:      Employees shall immediately (within 2 calendar days) report to his/her supervisor any
        criminal conviction or entry into a diversion program, for drug or alcohol related activity.
        Failure of the employee to report as required will result in disciplinary action up to and
        including termination. Each supervisor having knowledge of or upon receiving
        notification as described above shall notify the Personnel Officer.

VI.     SEARCH

When reasonable suspicion exists to believe an employee possesses alcohol or controlled
substances at work or on County property, the County will conduct a search of County
equipment or facilities and may also search the employee’s possessions located on County
property, including but not limited to, outer garment clothing, lunchbox, desk or personal
property.    Employees have no expectation of privacy in any items they bring to County property,
or in property, equipment or supplies provided by County.      Strip and frisk searches may only be
undertaken in the event of criminal investigation and only for probable cause as determined by
the investigating law enforcement agency. Employee will be asked to sign a consent form prior
to any search. The form is attached to this policy.

                                                            2015-2685                Page 6 of 14
                                                            MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON

                                                                                               127
401-    DRUG AND ALCOHOL FREE WORKPLACE POLICY continued

VII.    POST ACCIDENT TESTING

Employees are subject to testing when they cause or contribute to accidents that seriously
damage a county vehicle, machinery, equipment or property or result in an injury to themselves
or another employee requiring offsite medical attention.

IX.     EMPLOYEE REFUSAL TO TEST OR SEARCH

An employee who refuses to consent to a test or a search where there is reasonable suspicion to
suspect that the employee has violated this policy is subject to disciplinary action up to and
including termination. The reasons for refusal shall be considered in determining appropriate
disciplinary action.

An employee who refuses to cooperate with any and all tests required by this policy is also
subject to discipline, up to and including termination. This includes, but is not limited to,
tampering with, or attempting to tamper with, a specimen sample, using chemicals or other
ingredients to mask or otherwise cover up the presence of metabolites, drugs or alcohol in a
specimen, or providing a blood or urine specimen that was produced by anyone or anything other
than the employee being tested.

X.      VOLUNTARY DRUG AND ALCOHOL TREATMENT

Malheur County recognizes that alcohol and drug use may be a sign of chemical dependency and
that employees with alcohol and drug problems can be successfully treated. County is willing to
help such employees obtain appropriate treatment.

An employee who believes that he or she has a problem involving the use of alcohol or drugs
should ask his or her supervisor, department head or elected official for assistance.

County will work with an employee to identify all benefits and benefit programs that may be
available to help deal with the problem.

                                                          2015-2685                Page 7 of 14
                                                          MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON

                                                                                                  128
401-    DRUG AND ALCOHOL FREE WORKPLACE POLICY continued

Although Malheur County recognizes that alcohol and drug abuse can be successfully treated
and is willing to work with employees who suffer from such problems, it is the employee’s
responsibility to seek assistance BEFORE drug and alcohol problems lead to disciplinary action.
Once violation of this policy occurs, the employee’s willingness to seek assistance will not
excuse the violation and generally will have no bearing on the determination of appropriate
disciplinary action.

Therefore, if prior to a drug or alcohol test or search the employee notifies his or her
supervisor, department head or elected official that the he or she may have a drug or alcohol
problem that requires treatment, then in that event the employee shall immediately submit to a
medical evaluation by a doctor selected and paid for by County and employee shall enroll in a
treatment program recommended by the doctor. An employee may seek such evaluation and
treatment from the employee’s own doctor at the employee’s expense.        The employee shall
notify Malheur County of the name of the doctor. The cost of such treatment shall be at the
employee’s expense.   The employee may take paid leave (sick, vacation or personal leave) or
leave without pay for the period of treatment. The leave may or may not qualify for
FMLA/OFLA leave depending on the type of treatment and FMLA/OFAL guidelines. If the
employee fails to complete the treatment program successfully, he or she may be subject to
discipline up to and including termination. An employee who enters treatment/rehabilitation and
successfully completes treatment/rehabilitation under the terms of this paragraph or last chance
agreement shall not be subject to discipline.

XI.    DISCIPLINE AND CONSEQUENCES FOR VIOLATIONS OF THIS POLICY

An employee who tests positive for drugs or alcohol in accordance with this policy will be
subject to either termination or a last chance agreement.

A search which reveal the presence of alcohol or drugs, including marijuana (but excluding any
substance prescribed for the employee’s use which has not been obtained for the purpose of
abuse) will subject the employee to either termination or a last chance agreement.

Test results which do not positively establish that the employee has engaged in prohibited
conduct as described in this policy shall result in no further action against the employee.         The
employee shall be informed of all test results in writing. Employees who do not test positive
shall not have any record of the test placed in his or her personnel file. Working files may
contain records of the observations which led to the reasonable suspicion testing but no records
of the test itself. If the employee subsequently demonstrates similar behaviors, these records
may be relied upon by the employer in disciplinary proceedings.

                                                            2015-2685                Page 8 of 14
                                                            MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON

                                                                                               i
401-    DRUG AND ALCOHOL FREE WORKPLACE POLICY continued

XII.   LAST CHANCE AGREEMENT

At the sole discretion of Malheur County, after considering the individual         circumstances of each
case, a “last chance” agreement may be offered to an employee who is in violation of this policy.
A last chance agreement is an agreement whereby an employee who would otherwise be
terminated is provided an opportunity to address his or drug or alcohol abuse and/or performance
or safety issues. Each agreement is in writing and prepared considering the individual
circumstances of each case. Agreements may cover, but are not limited to, subjects such as
assignment changes and work restrictions, verification of attendance at a treatment or
rehabilitation program, testing and participation in an after-care program and unannounced drug
and/or alcohol screenings. The agreement shall specify the consequences for violation of its
provisions, including immediate termination of the employee, notwithstanding the provisions of
any other personnel rule.

XII.   CONFIDENTIALITY

All information related to drug/or alcohol tests, searches, evaluation, treatment will be kept
confidential. The information will be kept in the employee’s medical file, which will be
maintained separately from the employee’s personnel file. Only County staff with a need to
know will be informed of test or search results, evaluations or treatment. Disclosure of such
information to any other person, agency or organization is prohibited unless written authorization
is obtained from employee.

XIV.   TRAINING

The County recognizes that, in order to administer the standards, reasonable suspicion and
procedures set forth in this policy and fairly and to minimize the possibility of unwarranted
testing and searches, supervisory personnel shall receive training in how to recognize and deal
effectively with alcohol and drug issues in the work place. Accordingly, the County will provide
such training to supervisors and designated AFSCME representatives before the requirements of
this policy are implemented and enforced.

                                                              2015-2685                    Page 9 of 14
                                                              MALHEUR   COUNTY,   OREGON

                                                                                                      io)
401-    DRUG AND ALCOHOL             FREE WORKPLACE            POLICY continued

XV.    ROAD DEPARTMENT AND PRE-EMPLOYMENT TESTING

This policy will be administered in addition to County’s Alcohol and Drug Testing policy for
employees subject to Department of Transportation Regulations and pre-employment drug
testing.

XVI.   EMERGENCIES

In the event the County wishes to call out an employee to perform additional duties outside of
the employee’s normal work hours (e.g. an emergency, not on call) and the employee has
consumed alcohol or drugs, the employee will notify his or her supervisor that he or she has
consumed alcohol or drugs and is impaired and therefore is unable to report for duty. Employee
will not be subject to discipline if unable to report for duty under these circumstances.

       Approved:        November 17, 1999
       Revised:         November 2006, December 2014; July 2015

                                                           2015-2685             Page 10 of 14
                                                            MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON

                                                                                                 Lo)
                                     Drug Free Workplace
                                      Malheur County, Oregon

                             Reasonable Suspicion Observation Form
                                      (Strictly Confidential)

 Date/Time of Incident                                          Print Employee Name

 Print Name of Supervisor                                       Print Name of Witness
                                                                Corroborating Observations

 This checklist is to be complete when documenting an incident which provides reasonable
 suspicion that an employee has drugs or alcohol present in his or her body or possess drugs and
 alcohol while at work, on county property or operating county vehicles or equipment.

       Mark each applicable item on this form and any additional facts or circumstances

 Nature of Incident/Cause for Suspicion

                Observed/reported/admission possession or use of alcohol or drugs.
        G

                Apparent drug or alcohol intoxication.
BWHN

                Observed abnormal or erratic behavior.
        a

                Arrest or conviction of drug-related offense.
        Go

                Other (e.g., flagrant violation of safety regulations, serious misconduct, fighting
        oOo
Om

                or argumentative/abusive language, refusal of supervisor instruction,
                insubordination or unauthorized absence on the job.) Please specify:

                                                                2015-2685            Page 11 of 14
                                                                MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON

                                                                                                     132
  Unusual Behavior

          Oodoaada   Verbal abusiveness.
                     Physical abusiveness.
  ie oS
 ee

                     Extreme aggressiveness or agitation.
                     Withdrawal, depression, mood changes or unresponsiveness.
                     inappropriate verbal response to questioning or instructions.
                     Unexplained absences from normal work area and reason to suspect drug or
 :

                     alcohol related activity.
                     Unexplained deterioration in individual job performance.
          Oo oO
coon

                     Unexplained or suspicious absenteeism or tardiness.
                     Other erratic or inappropriate behavior (e.g., hallucinations, disorientation,
                     excessive euphoria or confusion. Please specify:

  Physical Signs or Symptoms

            O        Possessing, dispensing, or using controlled substance.
                     Slurred, incoherent or confused speech.
          OO

                     Unsteady or other loss of physical control; poor coordination or reflexes;
                     swaying; staggering; falling; stumbling; arms raised for balance.
                     Dilated or constricted pupils or unusual eye movement.
 S

          eouoeae

                     Bloodshot or watery eyes.
 No

                     Extreme fatigue; sleeping on the job; stupor.
                     Excessive sweating or clamminess to the skin.
 oS

                     Flushed or very pale face.
                     Highly excited or nervous.
          eo

                     Nausea or vomiting.
          ee

   11.               Odor of alcohol.
   (2.               Odor of marijuana.
          oboe

  13.                Dry mouth (frequent swallowing/lip wetting).
  14.                Dizziness or fainting.
  1:                 Shaking hands or body tremors/twitching.
          Gea

   16.               Irregular or difficult breathing.
  L?.                Runny nose or sores around nostril.

                                                                 2015-2685            Page 12 of 14
                                                                 MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON

                                                                                                      133
18.     QO    Consistently wearing sunglasses indoors.
9,    °° O    Confused, paranoid.
20.     O     Puncture marks or “tracks”.
Mm            Other. Please specify:

Written Summary

Please summarize the facts and circumstances of the incident, employee response, supervisor
actions and any other pertinent information not previously noted. Attach additional sheets or
continue on back if needed.

Signature supervisor                                                 date/time

Signature witness                                                    date/time

                                                     2015-2685            Page 13 of 14
                                                     MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON

                                                                                          34
             CONSENT TO TEST OR SEARCH FOR DRUGS OR ALCOHOL

Name of Employee:

Date:

TEST:

I consent to submit to a urinalysis, blood or breathe test as determined by Malheur County for the
purpose of determining if any drugs and/or alcohol are present in my body.

I agree that BioMed or                                   (name of hospital) may collect
specimens from me for these tests and may test them or forward them for analysis to a certified
testing laboratory designated by BioMed.

I agree to and hereby authorize the release of the results of said test to a Medical Review Officer
and to duly-authorized representatives of Malheur County, who will protect and maintain the
confidentiality of such information to the greatest extent possible; and who will share such
information only to the extent necessary to make employment decisions.

I agree that a copy of this consent shall have the same force and affect as the original.

I received and read Malheur County’s Drug and Alcohol Free Workplace Policy.              I understand
that failure to consent or cooperate to a drug or alcohol test or confirmed positive result for drugs
and alcohol may lead to discipline up to and including termination.

SEARCH:

In accordance with Malheur County’s Drug and Alcohol Free Workplace Policy, which I
received and read, I consent to a search of my desk, outer-garment clothing, lunchbox and
personal possessions located on County property. I understand that my refusal or failure to
cooperate in a search will result in discipline up to and including termination.

Signature of Employee                  date            Signature of Witness

Signature of Supervisor

                                                  -- 2015-2685            Page 14 of 14
                                                     MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON

                                                                                                135
402-   OCCUPATIONAL        SAFETY AND HEALTH MANUAL

       OSHA, short for the “Occupational Safety and Health Act,” requires employers to
       provide a safe workplace, accident prevention program, safety training and
       scheduled safety inspections. Malheur County holds in high regard the safety,
       welfare and health of its employees.   In April 2002, the Malheur County Court
       established an Occupational Safety and Health Manual. This manual is available
       for your review within your individual department. If you can not locate the
       manual, please request it from your supervisor, Malheur County’s Emergency
       Services Lieutenant/County Safety Officer or Personnel Officer.

       The safety manual is used as a tool for more effective safety and claims
       management. A safety committee has been established to coordinate the safety
       programs and to assist county employees in promoting safe working conditions.

       Approved:     January 1, 2003
       Revised:

                                                                                       13G
403-   IDENTIFICATION BADGES

        Any employee desiring a picture identification badge that indicates his/her
employment with Malheur County may obtain one through the Personnel Officer.        Loss
or damage to the identification badge should be reported to the Personnel Officer
immediately. Employees are required to pay for replacement badges. The badge is the
property of Malheur County and must be returned upon termination of employment.

        Because employee ID badges are also the means by which employees can gain
access to certain premises, employees must not loan their badges to anyone, including
other employees. Failure to observe this safety regulation could endanger the safety and
security of all other employees.

Approved:    = January 1, 2003
Revised:

                                                                                           37
                                                                    MALHEURCOUNTY,OR                         2016-0805
                                                                    MRCOUNTY          COURT
                                                                    DOCUMENT                      03/10/2016 01:06 PM
                                                                    Cni=1 Pgs=1                                   Total:$0.00

                                                                                                600008050010014
                                                                    |, Deborah R. DeLong, County Clerk for Malheur
                                                                    County, Oregon certify that the instrument identified
                                                                    herein was recorded in the Clerk records.               a   /
                                                                            Deborah R. DeLong - County Clerk                        ~: ~

404-   PRE-EMPLOYMENT DRUG TESTING POLICY STATEMENT

POLICY STATEMENT

An applicant for employment with Malheur County may be required to undergo pre-
employment drug testing. Applicants for positions that designated as safety-sensitive are
required to undergo pre-employment drug testing for alcohol and drugs, after a conditional
offer of employment has been extended, and prior to applicant’s performance of a safety-
sensitive function.   Guidelines for determining if a position is safety-sensitive, testing
procedures and pre-employment drug testing forms will be kept by the Personnel Officer.

        Approved:     = July 22, 2015
        Revised:        March 9, 2016

                                                                                                                   138
                                                                           MALHEURCOUNTY,OR                        2017-0108
                                                                           NO COMENonT 01/41/2017 10:15 AM
                                                                           Cnt=1 Pgs=2                                   Total:$0.00

405-      INCLEMENT WEATHER AND CLOSURE POLICY
                                                                                00040387201 7000                        0020028
                                                                           |, Deborah R DeLong. County Clerk for Malheur
                                                                           County, Oregon certify that the instrument identified
                                                                           herein was recorded in the Clerk records.
                                                                                   Deborah R. DeLong - County Clerk                Af
I.        POLICY

The philosophy of Malheur County is that offices and departments will be open except under
extreme adverse conditions. At times road conditions will make travel in some parts of
Malheur County inadvisable.       Individual employees need to make whatever decisions are
necessary for their own safety.     If it is unsafe for you to travel to work, do not.

If conditions are extreme, the County Judge will attempt to make a decision by 5:30 a.m. as to
whether or not County offices and departments will be open. Announcements will be made
through local media outlets such as Malheur Enterprise, Argus Observer, KTVB Channel 7, KBO!
Channel 2, KIVI Channel 6, KSRV (1380 am) and the Malheur County Sheriff’s Office Dispatch
Center.  Messages may also be sent through the County employee e-mail system, notice on the
County website, and contact through the County emergency phone chain, text from supervisor
or alerts (ALERTSENSE).

tl.       PROVISIONS

1.        CLOSURE. When County offices and departments are closed due to inclement weather,
          as determined by the County Judge, full-time employees will be paid for such time
          off. Part-time employees will only be paid if normally scheduled to work that day and
          only for those hours which the employee would normally work. Time absent from work
          due to closure shall not count as hours worked when computing overtime.

2.        When County offices and departments are open during inclement weather and the
          County Judge has not issued an announcement of closure, County employees will be
          expected to make reasonable efforts to get to work.       Employees unable to arrive for
          work on any such day shall take vacation leave, personal leave or comp. time, if the
          employee has such leave available. Unpaid leave may be taken only if vacation, comp.
          time and personal leave is not available.
                                                  In some circumstances, supervisors may allow
          employees to make up missed hours of work during the same work week.
          Employees who are unable to report to work must call their supervisor and report
          his/her absence as soon as reasonably possible.If employees do not call their
          supervisor, the absence may be considered unexcused.

                                                                                                                  139
405-   INCLEMENT WEATHER AND CLOSURE POLICY

3.     CLOSE EARLY. On days when weather conditions worsen as the day progresses, the
       County Judge may decide to close County offices and departments early. In such cases,
       a decision and announcement will be made to County employees.                  Employees will be
       expected to remain at work until the appointed closing time, unless they receive
       permission from supervisor to leave early and use vacation, personal, comp. time or
       unpaid leave.   When County offices and departments are closed early, employees who
       worked the day will be paid through their regular day work ending time.

4.     DELAY START.   Prior to normal starting workday time, the County Judge may announce a
       delayed scheduled or starting time for County offices and departments. Employees will
       be expected to make reasonable efforts to get to work at the announced delayed
       starting time. Employees unable to arrive for work at the delayed time shall use
       vacation, comp. time or personal leave, if available. Unpaid leave may also be taken if
       leave is not available. Employees who arrive at the delayed start time will be paid from
       their normal workday starting time.

5;     Department heads and elected officials should not make a separate decision concerning
       closure of their County office or department. The County Judge will be the County
       closure authority due to inclement weather, working closely with County
       Commissioners, Road Supervisor and Sheriff’s Office/Emergency Services.

6.     County elected officials and department heads outside of the Malheur County
       Courthouse may temporarily close their offices to the public but remain open for staff
       when conditions make      office buildings or parking lots difficult to access (i.e. snow not
       removed).

Ts     In order to avoid confusion with closure of state offices located in the Malheur County
       Courthouse, the County Judge will make announcements as follows: “Malheur County
       Government Offices are closed today”; or “Malheur County Government Offices are
       delayed until ____ am” or “Malheur County Government Offices will close at __a.m./
       p.m today”.     This means all offices and facilities located in Vale and Ontario.

8.     If the County Judge is not available, this policy may be implemented by a County
       Commissioner.

Approved:     January 11, 2017

                                              2017-0108                 Page 2 of 2
                                              MALHEUR COUNTY, ORE
                                                                  GON

                                                                                                     [4o
                                  SECTION 500
                                      FORMS
                                 Table of Contents

                                                                         Page

501-   Sexual Harassment Complaint Form                                  142

502-   Internal Discrimination/Harassment Complaint Form                 145

503-   Internet and Electronic Mail Acceptable Use Policy Consent Form   151

504-   Computer Policy Consent Form                                      [52

505-   OFLA Bereavetent Leave Request Form                               153

506-   Drug Free Workplace Reasonable Suspicion Observation Form         154

507-   Consent to Test or Search for Drugs or Alcohol Form               157

508-   Policy Manual Acknowledgment Form                                 158
Form     5ol

                                  Malheur County
                       Sexual Harassment Complaint Form

   1.   Name:

   2. Supervisor's name:

   3. Name of individual engaging in alleged harassment:

   4.   Position and title of individual named in #3.

   5. Complaint’s relationship to individual engaging in alleged harassment:

        Supervisor 0       Co-Worker     O              Other (specify):   O

   6. Please describe the specific act(s) alleged.

   7. Location(s) of alleged incident:

  8. Date(s) and approximate time(s) of incidents:

1 -Sexual Harassment Complaint Form

                                                                               142
9. Are there others who have witnessed this behavior or others who
experienced similar behavior by the individual named above? If so, please
provide their names(s), indicate if witness or individual with similar experience.

10. Did you tell anyone about your experience after the alleged incident(s)?         If
so, please provide name(s) and phone number(s).

11. Actions taken, if any, to attempt to stop the harassment.

12.   Have you reported this incident to anyone else?

      YesO           No 0

      Ifyes, withwhom?      UnionO      Attorney         SupervisorO     Other   O

13. What resolution or proposed action would you like to occur to resolve or
address the harassment?

14. Has there been a personal relationship between you and the accused in the
past?
           Yes    O         No O
     If yes, for how long, when, and how did the relationship end?

2 -Sexual Harassment Complaint Form

                                                                                          lH3
15.   Additional information and comments:

16.     Have you received a copy of the County’s Sexual Harassment Policy?
             Yes O          Noo

           If no, please contact the Personnel Officer immediately at: 473-5167.

Date:

Signature:
               Your signature certifies that the information on this form is true and
               accurate.

3 -Sexual Harassment Complaint Form

                                                                                        144
FORM   502

         Malheur County Internal Discrimination/ Harassment Complaint Form

  Instructions
  Use this form to file a complaint of discrimination/harassment under any of Malheur
  County’s programs.

  Definitions
  Discrimination Complaint: Alleges an action was motivated by discrimination.

  Discrimination: Unequal or different treatment on the basis of a protected category
  established by policy or law.

 Harassment:     Verbal or physical conduct that is derogatory or shows hostility based on a
  protected category.

 Sexual Harassment: Any unwelcome conduct including but not limited to sexual
 advances, request for sexual favors and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual
  nature that has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an employee’s
  work, is the basis for an employment decision or creates an intimidating, hostile or
  offensive work environment.

  Confidentiality Notice
  The authority for collecting this information comes from Malheur County’s commitment
  to provide its employees with a workplace that is free of illegal bias, prejudice and
  harassment. The information obtained by this form is used to process complaints and
  conduct investigations of alleged violations of the County’s policies. The information
  collected may be verified with others who may have knowledge relevant to the
  complaint. Failure to provide complete information may impede the investigation process
  and the action that can be taken on your behalf to resolve the issues associated with the
  complaint. Furthermore, failure to use the internal complaint process may impact your
  rights to take any legal action on the complaint or associated issues. Alternatives to filing
  an internal complaint may also be available under applicable collective bargaining
  agreements. External resources for filing complaints include the State of Oregon Bureau
  of Labor and Industries Civil Rights Division and the United States Equal Employment
  Opportunity Commission.

 Page - 1 Discrimination/Harassment Complaint Form

                                                                                                  145
Non-Retaliation
Malheur County policies require its managers and supervisors to take all necessary steps
to assure that there is no retaliation against any person who files a complaint or assists in
its investigation. This includes any intimidation, threat, coercion or discrimination. Any
employee involved in retaliatory conduct will be subject to disciplinary action in
accordance with personnel policy or appropriate collective bargaining agreement.

Prompt filing.
In order to investigate complaints in a timely manner, Malheur County suggests that
complaints be filed within 30 days of the event that gave raise to the complaint.

Complainant Information:

1. Today’s Date:

2. Your Name:

3. Persons Alleged to have discriminated or harassed you:

4. List of Witnesses. Next to each name briefly describe type of information witness can
provide:

Page - 2 Discrimination/Harassment Complaint Form

                                                                                                IY lo
5. List date(s) of each alleged discriminatory/harassing act(s):

6. Check the category or categories you believe to be the basis of the
discrimination/harassment against you. If you believe that there is more than one basis,
more than one category may be checked:

 Color                     Race   Religion           Disability

 Sex (male or female)                        Political Affiliation   Age

 National Origin           Sexual Orientation                 Sexual harassment

 Marital Status            Familial Status

 Other (please specify):

7. If your complaint is related to race, national origin or religion, please state your group
of identification for which you are alleging race, national origin or religious
discrimination.    For example, White, Latino, Asian, American Indian, Muslim, Jewish etc

Group of identification:

Page - 3 Discrimination/Harassment Complaint Form

                                                                                                47
8. Check the category or categories below that best represent the area of your concern:

 Accommodation            Layoff            Seniority       Demotion         Termination

 Opportunity      Facility Access           Pregnancy Leave       Training

 Hiring           Job Assignment            Treatment       Work Environment

 Job Benefits     Wages             Religious Observation

Other (please specify):

9. Do you know of any other employee, applicant of individual who was treated in the
same way as you allege you were treated?

          Yes   If yes, include names:

          No
          Don’t know

Page - 4 Discrimination/Harassment Complaint Form

                                                                                           148
Statement of Complaint
For each issue above, explain in your statement of complaint how you were discriminated
against, harassed or denied an accommodation.      Describe in detail the alleged
discriminatory/harassing acts. Please include the following points:

* Why you believe the acts(s) was based on a reason protected by policy or law.
* Dates, places, names and titles of persons involved and witnesses, if any.
¢ What discriminatory act(s) took place.
* Describe any explanations, if any, that was offered for the acts that occurred; and
* Any and all information you can provide that supports your allegations.
* If this is a complaint based on disability, describe your request for reasonable
  accommodation and the explanations given regarding your request.

(AN ADDITIONAL SHEET MAY BE ADDED TO PROVIDE FURTHER INFORMATION)

Page - 5 Discrimination/Harassment Complaint Form

                                                                                          44
10. How would you like the matter resolved?

Signature and Verification
I have reviewed and read this document and to the best of my knowledge all information
it contains is true and correct.

Signature of Complainant                                                         Date

Page - 6 Discrimination/Harassment Complaint Form

                                                                                         Role)
FORM   503

104 - INTERNET AND ELECRONIC               MAIL ACCEPTABLE USE AND RETENTION
POLICY      continued

                   MALHEUR COUNTY EMPLOYEE CONSENT FORM

       I have reviewed Malheur County’s Internet and Electronic Mail Acceptable Use Policy.               I
       understand that all computer equipment, as well as all information transmitted, received,
       or stored in these systems, is the property of the County.

       I understand that such systems are to be used solely for job-related purposes, not for
       personal purposes, and that I have no expectation of privacy in connection with the use of
       this equipment or the transmission, receipt, or information stored in such equipment.

       I understand and agree not to use a code, access a file, or retrieve any stored
       communication unless authorized; and J also acknowledge and consent to the County’s
       monitoring my use of this equipment.

       T understand that violation of this policy could result in disciplinary action, up to and
       including termination. I agree to abide by the policy as a condition of continued
       employment with the County.

Print Employee Name

Signature of Employee

Date

Approved:       December 15, 1998
Revised:        April 11, 2002; March 1, 2004; November 30, 2016

                                                                                                   151]
       FORM 504

                   MALHEUR        COUNTY EMPLOYEE            CONSENT FORM

        I have reviewed Malheur County’s Workplace Computer Policy. I understand
        that all computer equipment, as well as all information transmitted, received, or
        stored in these systems, are the property of the County.

        I understand that such systems are to be used solely for job-related purposes, not
        for personal purposes, and that I have no expectation of privacy in connection
        with the use of this equipment or the transmission, receipt, or information stored
        in such equipment.

        I understand and agree not to use a code, access a file, or retrieve any stored
        communication unless authorized; and I also acknowledge and consent to the
        County’s monitoring my use of this equipment.

        I understand that violation of this policy could result in disciplinary action, up to
        and including termination. I agree to abide by the Workplace Computer policy as
        a condition of continued employment with the County.

Print Employee Name

Signature of Employee

Date

Approved:    | December 15, 1998
Revised:       January 1, 2003

                                                                                          pay
     FORM   505

                        OFLA BEREAVEMENT LEAVE REQUEST FORM

Employees should use this form to request time off for funeral/bereavement leave under OFLA.
This leave can be for up to two weeks of leave. An employee may use leave accruals such as
vacation, sick, and personal during this period.

Employee Name:

Relationship of Family Member (Choose One):

O spouse                                   o foster parent                Q loco parentis relationship
0 same-gender domestic partner             O biological parent            oO child of employee
O custodial parent                         O parent-in-law                a child of same-gender
0 non-custodial parent                     0 parent of domestic partner    domestic partner
O adoptive parent                          O grandparent                  O other:
                                           0 grandchild

Date of Knowledge of Death:

Beginning Date of Leave:

Date Returning to Work:

If leave will be taken on an intermittent basis, please provide schedule here:

Employee’s signature              date

O           Approved leave under OFLA.

Oo          Not approved for leave under OFLA for the following reason:

            Signed by Personnel Officer:

                                                                                                   IS3
     FORM      506

                                                Drug Free Workplace
                                                 Malheur County, Oregon

                                        Reasonable Suspicion Observation Form
                                                 (Strictly Confidential)

Date/Time of Incident                                                      Print Employee Name

Print Name of Supervisor                                                   Print Name of Witness
                                                                           Corroborating Observations

This checklist is to be complete when documenting an incident which provides reasonable
suspicion that an employee has drugs or alcohol present in his or her body or possess drugs and
alcohol while at work, on county property or operating county vehicles or equipment.

        Mark each applicable item on this form and any additional facts or circumstances

Nature of Incident/Cause for Suspicion

1                          Observed/reported/admission possession or use of alcohol or drugs.
                      ao
            OoOoOodadoa

2.                         Apparent drug or alcohol intoxication.
2.                         Observed abnormal or erratic behavior.
4                          Arrest or conviction of drug-related offense.
2)                         Other (e.g., flagrant violation of safety regulations, serious misconduct, fighting
                           or argumentative/abusive language, refusal of supervisor instruction,
                           insubordination or unauthorized absence on the job.) Please specify:

                                                                                                            154
 Unusual Behavior

  1.            O             Verbal abusiveness.
 2.             Oo            Physical abusiveness.
 3.             Oo            Extreme aggressiveness or agitation.
 4.             Oo            Withdrawal, depression, mood changes or unresponsiveness.
 Be             O             inappropriate verbal response to questioning or instructions.
 6.             0             Unexplained absences from normal work area and reason to suspect drug or
                              alcohol related activity.
 7              O             Unexplained deterioration in individual job performance.
                O             Unexplained or suspicious absenteeism or tardiness.
 9              Oo            Other erratic or inappropriate behavior (e.g., hallucinations, disorientation,
                              excessive euphoria or confusion.    Please specify:

 Physical Signs or Symptoms

                O             Possessing, dispensing, or using controlled substance.
                              Slurred, incoherent or confused speech.
            O

                              Unsteady or other loss of physical control; poor coordination or reflexes;
ee)

            O

                              swaying; staggering; falling; stumbling; arms raised for balance.
                              Dilated or constricted pupils or unusual eye movement.
       ONDooagaooaooooaoood

                              Bloodshot or watery eyes.
                              Extreme fatigue; sleeping on the job; stupor.
                              Excessive sweating or clamminess to the skin.
                              Flushed or very pale face.
                              Highly excited or nervous.
                              Nausea or vomiting:
S

                              Odor of alcohol.
                              Odor of marijuana.
                              Dry mouth (frequent swallowing/lip wetting).
                              Dizziness or fainting.
                              Shaking hands or body tremors/twitching.
                              Irregular or difficult breathing.
                              Runny nose or sores around nostril.

                                                                                                               155
18     O      Consistently wearing sunglasses indoors.
19,    ei)    Confused, paranoid.
20.    Oo     Puncture marks or “tracks”.
21.    O      Other.   Please specify:

Written Summary

Please summarize the facts and circumstances of the incident, employee response, supervisor
actions and any other pertinent information not previously noted. Attach additional sheets or
continue on back if needed.

Signature supervisor                                                date/time

Signature witness                                                   date/time

                                                                                                156
 FORM   507

              CONSENT TO TEST OR SEARCH FOR DRUGS OR ALCOHOL

Name of Employee:

Date:

TEST:

I consent to submit to a urinalysis, blood or breathe test as determined by Malheur County for the
purpose of determining if any drugs and/or alcohol are present in my body.

I agree that BioMed or                                   (name of hospital) may collect
specimens from me for these tests and may test them or forward them for analysis to a certified
testing laboratory designated by BioMed.

I agree to and hereby authorize the release of the results of said test to a Medical Review Officer
and to duly-authorized representatives of Malheur County, who will protect and maintain the
confidentiality of such information to the greatest extent possible; and who will share such
information only to the extent necessary to make employment decisions.

I agree that a copy of this consent shall have the same force and affect as the original.

I received and read Malheur County’s Drug and Alcohol Free Workplace Policy.          I understand
that failure to consent or cooperate to a drug or alcohol test or confirmed positive result for drugs
and alcohol may lead to discipline up to and including termination.

SEARCH:

In accordance with Malheur County’s Drug and Alcohol Free Workplace Policy, which I
received and read, I consent to a search of my desk, outer-garment clothing, lunchbox and
personal possessions located on County property. I understand that my refusal or failure to
cooperate in a search will result in discipline up to and including termination.

Signature of Employee                  date            Signature of Witness

Signature of Supervisor

                                                                                              IST
FORM 508-              MANUAL ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

       I have read a copy of the Malheur County Employee Manual.

       I understand as follows:

e   This Manual represents a brief summary of some of the more important Malheur
    County policies. Consequently, the Manual is not all inclusive.

e   Malheur County retains the sole right in its business judgment to modify, suspend,
    interpret, or cancel in whole or in part, at any time, and with or without notice, any of
    the published or unpublished policies or practices.

e   The contents of this Manual do not constitute an express or implied contract of
    employment.

Employee Name (print)

Employee Signature                             Date

                                                                                            158