603.1

ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES

SECTION: Professional Conduct POLICY #: 603
TITLE: Workplace Violence Prevention PROCEDURE #: 603-A
ORDER #:                 09-78
DEPT: Business Services DIVISION: Risk Management
ADOPTED: 1/98 REVIEWED: 8/09 REVISED: 4/00, 8/09

PURPOSE: The purpose of this policy is to establish Marion County’s commitment to
providing a safe workplace free from violence, harassment or intimidation.

AUTHORITY: The  Marion  County  Board  of  Commissioners  may  establish  rules  and
regulations in reference to managing the interest and business of the county
under ORS 203.010, 203.035 and 203.111.

The  Marion  County  Board  of  Commissioners  expresses  the  governing
body’s for mal, organizatio nal po sition of funda mental issues or specific
repetitive situations through formally adopted, written policy statements.
The policy state ments serve as gui des to decision making for both elected
and appointed officials on the conduct of county business.

The Marion County Administrative Policies and Procedures manual of the
board of commissioners outlines the forms and process through which the
board takes official action on administrative policy, and is the official
record of county administrative policy.

APPLICABILITY: This policy applies to all departments, employees, volunteers, contractors,
and agents of the county.

GENERAL POLICY:            Marion County is committed to maintaining a safe work environment, free
from all  forms of violence, for all county  employees, elected officials,
volunteers, contract workers, and agents.   Acts of violence are strictly
prohibited and will not be tolerated.

Law enforce ment personnel are often exposed to situati ons that involve
violence.   This policy is not meant to be applied during the course and
scope of law enforcement activities or mandated interactions.

Nothing  in  this  policy  is  meant  to  be  applied  to  reasonable  corrective
actions  taken  for  poor  performance,  misconduct,  economic  necessity  or
other appropriate business related communications.
603.2
SUBJECT: WORKPLACE VIOLENCE PREVENTION

Nothing in this policy alters any other reporting obligation established in
county policies or other applicable local, state or federal law.

POLICY GUIDELINES:

1. Definitions:

1.1. “Domestic Violence” refers to the use of abusive or violent behavior, including threats and
intimidation, between people who have an ongoing  or prior personal, domestic or intimate
relationship.

1.2. “Intimidation” is intentionally engaging in actions or behaviors with malice intended to
frighten, coerce or induce duress, including but not limited to stalking, or , transmitting
inappropriate emails.

1.3. “Physical Attack” is unwanted physical contact including but not limited to hitting,
fighting, pushing, shoving, throwing objects, spitting, or transferring other bodily fluids.

1.4. “Workplace Violence” refers to violence or threats of violence including but not limited to
intimidation, harassment, coercion, physical attack, domestic violence or property damage,
regardless of the source of the violence, perpetrated in a Marion County employment
setting.

1.5. “Threat” is an expression of intent to cause physical or mental harm.  An expression
constitutes a threat without regard for the method used to convey the threat, whether the
party communicating the threat has the present ability to carry it out or whether the
expression is contingent, conditional or prospective.

2. Prohibited Conduct:

No employee, elected official, volunteer, contract worker, or agent of Marion County shall engage
in any act of workplace violence.  Engaging in prohibited conduct may result in disciplinary action
up to and including termination of employment, termination of the contract, or termination of
other relationship with the county.

Any retaliation or discrimination against an individual who reports an act of workplace violence
will not be tolerated.

The failure to report workplace violence is a violation of Marion County policy, and the employee
may be subject to discipline.  Volunteers, agents or contractors who fail to report an act of
workplace violence may have their relationship with the county terminated.
603.3
SUBJECT: WORKPLACE VIOLENCE PREVENTION

3. Responsibilities:

It is the responsibility of  all Marion County employees, elected officials, volunteers, contract
workers, and agents to create and maintain a workplace free of violence.  All threats of workplace
violence must be taken seriously.

Any county employee, volunteer, contract worker, or agent having knowledge of a violent act in
the workplace involving any other person must report the incident immediately to a supervisor,
management representative, or human resources.  The supervisor/manager shall, as soon as
possible but not later than the next business day, refer any incident to of workplace violence to
risk management or the appropriate human resources representative.

4. Imminent Danger:

Marion County recognizes that there may be situations that require immediate action to protect
oneself or others against imminent danger to life and health.  If an incident occurs where
immediate response is necessary and there is no time to contact a supervisor or wait for law
enforcement to respond, employees, elected officials, volunteers, contract workers, or agents may
protect themselves pursuant to law.

5. Domestic Violence:

Domestic violence that enters into the workplace will be considered workplace violence and
handled accordingly.  Marion County will work closely with victims to ensure that they are safe in
the workplace.  Supervisors are encouraged to provide victims with information regarding the
services available to them under the county benefits programs.

6. Training:

All employees, elected officials, volunteers, contract workers, and agents of Marion County shall
receive training on the workplace violence prevention policy.  Periodic training will cover topics
such as risk factors for workplace violence, handling difficult situations, and developing
departmental emergency plans.