524-A.1
         ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES

TITLE: Building Security and Access PROCEDURE #: 524-A
DEPT: Business Services PROGRAM: Risk Management
EFFECTIVE DATE: 1/09 REVIEWED: 05/25 REVISED:  06/25

OBJECTIVE: To establish procedures for requesting and issuing keys and keycards for
access to buildings owned and operated by Marion County.

REFERENCE: Policy #524

POLICY STATEMENT: To establish the requirements for gaining key and keycard access to Marion
County facilities.

APPLICABILITY: All county departments, county employees, volunteers and contracted
providers who may need key or keycard access.

PROCEDURES:

1. Definitions:
1.1. County Access Coordinator (CAC):  A Business Services employee who assigns building access
per department needs that align with policy 524.
1.2. Department Access Coordinator (DAC):  An employee(s) assigned by their department head or
elected official to coordinate key and keycard access for that department.
1.3. Access Request Form: An electronic form that DACs submit online to Business Services to
request building access.
1.4. Keycard / Key fob: An electronic key that is programmed to provide entry into specific doors
and/or buildings at specific times.
1.5. Key System Hierarchy: A multiple-level key structure where each level in the hierarchy provides
a different level of access.
1.5.1. Great Grand Master Key (GGM): A key that opens all county locks within that key system
hierarchy.
1.5.2. Single Key Different (SKD): A unique key that accesses areas where materials that are
sensitive in nature are stored and requires additional security. SKD locks cannot be
accessed by any other key in the key structure except the GGM.
524-A.2
1.5.3. Grand Master Key (GM): A key that opens all locks within a specific building, except for
SKD locks or doors with a keycard reader.
1.5.4. Master Key (MK):  A key that provides access to a group of rooms within a department or
building.
1.5.5. Department Key (DK): A key that provides access to a single room, office, or door within
an individual building.
1.6. KeyWatcher Box: An electronically controlled lock box that holds metal keys for employees to
check out on an as needed basis.
2. Keycard Access and Issuance:
2.1. Departments requesting that an employee possess more than one active keycard must first receive
authorization from their department head or elected official. Upon receiving authorization, DACs
must submit the request through the Access Request Form. The CAC will request authorization
from the Marion County CAO prior to activating additional keycards.
2.1.1. Upon receipt of CAO’s access decision, the CAC shall let the DAC know the outcome of
the decision.
2.1.2. The Access Request Form can be found on the Business Services intranet page or by
clicking: https://apps.intra.co.marion.or.us/BS/FM/AccessRequest/
2.2. Employees may be issued appropriate keys and keycard(s) needed to access offices and/or work
areas as determined by the department director or elected official per policy 524.
2.2.1. In the case of a lost or forgotten keycard, see Procedure 524-B.
2.3. All requests for keys, keycards, or key fobs must be submitted electronically through the Access
Request Form by a DAC. Authorization from the employee’s immediate supervisor and DAC
must be received by Business Services.
2.4. Business Services will issue keys and keycards to new employees during the county’s new
employee orientation, Right Start.
2.5. At the time a position recruitment is filled, DACs will submit to Business Services the
employee’s name, department, job title, office location, start date, and employment status on the
Access Request Form. Business Services will establish the new employee’s keycard access and
assign keys if necessary. All issued items will be inventoried and signed for by the employee
during Right Start.
2.5.1. When an employee will not be attending Right Start or their scheduled shift falls outside
normal business hours, the DAC will receive any assigned items through the inner office
mail courier program. DACs are responsible for securing the employee’s signature when
the keys or keycards are issued and must return a copy of the signed form to Business
Services.
524-A.3
2.6. A key and keycard inventory audit will be conducted with each employee’s performance
evaluation annually. DACs will coordinate with Business Services to provide inventory lists to
supervisors for audit purposes.
2.6.1. If any change in job status, departmental role, or reduction in access occurs and assigned
keys are no longer required, Department Head or designee shall coordinate with DACs to
return the unrequired keys to Business Services.
2.7. DACs may request access be granted to outside agents, vendors, and contractors with approval
from the appropriate department head or elected official.
2.8. Volunteers who require keycard access must be registered with the volunteer coordinator before a
keycard is issued. The DAC is responsible for submitting the request on the Access Request Form
and for securing the keycard at the completion of the volunteer’s assignment.
2.9. In the event a key or keycard is lost or stolen, Business Services must be notified as soon as
possible so that the security of the facility can be preserved. Notification should be done even if
there is a chance that the keycard may later be found. Lost or Stolen keys and/or keycards will not
be replaced until the DAC provides written notification of the loss to Business Services and the
employee’s immediate supervisor.
2.9.1. For a temporary assigned keycard, see Procedure 524-B.
3. Key Issuance:
3.1. A GGM key shall not be issued to anyone outside of Business Services.  The issuance of this key
is restricted and should not be issued to anyone who is not in a management position.  In an
emergency involving life and safety, the GGM may be temporarily issued to emergency
responders.  At the conclusion of the event, the GGM must be retrieved and accounted for.
3.2. Department heads and elected officials may request that GM keys be issued for employees based
on business needs.  The issuance of GM building keys will be limited only to those employees
who have a need for frequent access in order to perform job-related responsibilities.  A GM key
request will require the signature of the department head or elected official requesting the key.
Requests for keys that will allow access to another department’s work area require prior approval
from the department head or elected official who occupies the space to be accessed.
3.3. DACs may request department keys or master keys only for areas that their assigned department
occupies.
3.3.1. Requests for department keys or master keys outside of the employee’s associated
department must go through the CAC. The CAC will get the needed approvals from the
outside departments.
3.4. KeyWatcher boxes will hold keys that can be accessed for a case by case need when frequent
access is unnecessary. This allows for the least amount keys being assigned when feasible.
3.4.1. DACs must submit an Access Request Form to request access to the KeyWatcher boxes.
524-A.4
3.4.2. KeyWatcher box approval will adhere to the same guidelines as key or keycard approval
that align with Policy 524.
3.5. The Business Services work order system will be used to request changes to locks or keying.
3.6. Requests for single key different (SKD) locks will require approval of the appropriate department
head or elected official and the CAO.
4. Change Status:
4.1. DACs must immediately notify Business Services when any change in an employee’s status or
business arrangement results in restricting building access or terminating building access.
4.2. DACs may request a change to existing keycard access levels for their areas.  DACs shall obtain
all necessary approvals prior to forwarding such a request to Business Services. Business Services
may verify changes in status with Human Resources before executing changes to confirm
reassignment to another department or other status changes that would result in granting
additional access.
4.3. DACs may request temporary changes to access levels. Temporary changes may be needed when
special projects or deadlines require employees to work beyond their normal schedule.
Temporary access will not be granted to areas not under the control of the employee’s
department.  Requests for access to another department’s area will require the authorization of
that department head or elected official who controls the space.
4.4. Department Heads and Elected Officials are responsible for ensuring that an audit of keys,
keycards, key fobs, and access is conducted for each employee annually. DACs will provide the
annual audit to Business Services. Any unused, unneeded, or obsolete (no longer valid) keys,
keycards, or key fobs must be returned to Business Services along with a notice of any change in
access.
5. Department Access:
5.1. Departments are responsible for complying with county policy when determining department
level access protocols for employees, agents, contractors and visitors based on business need, job
specifications, and nature of work performed in the area.
6. Replacement Keys or Keycards:
6.1. Initial keycards and necessary keys will be issued to all qualifying employees without charge.
6.2. Keys and keycards that are broken or worn will be replaced without a charge.  The original
keycard or parts of the broken key must be returned to Business Services prior to reissuance.
6.3. Replacement of lost or stolen keys, keycards, key fobs or failure to return assigned keys,
keycards, or key fobs may result in charges to the key, keycard, key fob assignee. The
replacement fee for each item is a minimum of fifteen dollars ($15).
524-A.5
6.4. Failure to collect keys, keycards, or key fobs from an employee upon their departure from the
department may result in replacement charges to the department. The replacement fee for each
item is a minimum of fifteen dollars ($15).
7. High Security Access Areas and Buildings:
7.1. Upon the authorization of the department head or elected official, the DAC may request that an
employee, volunteer, or contractor be granted unescorted access into high security areas or
buildings.
7.2. Individuals who require unescorted access, shall comply with the provisions of the CJIS security
policy, including a fingerprint-based national records check. Individuals who do not receive CJIS
clearance shall not be granted unescorted access to high security areas or buildings.
7.3. The CAC shall confirm that CJIS clearance has been given. Access to high security areas or
buildings shall not be granted prior to confirmation of CJIS clearance.