209-A.1
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES

TITLE: Bylaws of Advisory Boards PROCEDURE #: 209-A
DEPT: Board of Commissioners PROGRAM: Volunteer Services
EFFECTIVE DATE: 11/06 REVIEWED:  REVISED:  9/18

OBJECTIVE: To establish a procedure to ensure consistent content of the bylaws of
Marion County advisory boards.

REFERENCE: Policy #209

POLICY STATEMENT: Each Marion County advisory board must have bylaws to direct and clarify
its actions, procedures, and organization. Bylaws are the guidelines by
which a board functions and should include expectations of members.
Issues such as attendance, responsibilities, and discipline should be
addressed in the bylaws.

APPLICABILITY: All county advisory boards except limited duration committees as defined
in Policy 209.

PROCEDURES:

1. Bylaws shall be written in accordance with the attached bylaws template, in compliance with statutory
requirements as they apply.
1.1. The bylaws template is available on the county intranet Volunteer Management Resources page
http://intra.co.marion.or.us/BS/VOL/Pages/Vol_Mgmt_Res.aspx

2. New and revised bylaws shall be submitted to the Board of Commissioners for review and approval
by board order.
2.1. Advisory board staff shall arrange for review of new or revised bylaws per the process outlined in
Policy 201 and Procedure 201-A, Placing Business Before the Board of Commissioners
http://apps.intra.co.marion.or.us/BS/APAP/policy.aspx?p=policy&pid=201
2.2. Management Update:
2.2.1. Management update meetings are regularly held Monday at 9:00 a.m. Generally, the board
does not take formal action during management update meetings; however, this is an
opportunity for staff to communicate with the board and seek guidance on advisory board
topics.
2.2.2. Bylaws should be taken to a management update meeting for review by the board of
commissioners prior to seeking formal approval.
2.3. Board Session:
2.3.1. Board sessions are held Wednesdays at 9:00 a.m.
2.3.2. Advisory board staff is responsible for presenting bylaws to the Board of Commissioners
for approval. The advisory board chair or designee may also be present.