ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES

SECTION: Health Safety Security POLICY #: 509
TITLE: Work-Related Preventative
Vaccinations, Medical
Examinations and Required Record
Keeping
PROCEDURE #:
 ORDER #: 96-9
DEPT: Risk Management DIVISION:
ADOPTED: 1/93 REVIEWED: 1/96 REVISED:

1.0 Purpose

This policy will clarify when departments will provide preventative vaccinations and
medical evaluations which are not related to a Workers' Compensation claim, but are
required by a department or other regulatory agency, and required record keeping.

2.0 General Policy

Preventative vaccinations shall be provided for employees with potential exposure to
blood or other potentially infectious materials as per the Bloodborne Pathogen Policy.
Post-exposure vaccinations and screening for TB, Tetanus and Hepatitis shall be provided
by each department as an operating expense when an employee has had exposure during
the course of work. Vaccinations will be paid if employees are determined to be high risk
as per the Bloodborne Pathogen Policy. Departments may provide preventative
vaccinations on a case-by-case basis as determined by the departmental risk evaluation.
Employees who decline to receive the vaccination(s) shall sign a waiver statement noting
their refusal to be vaccinated. These exposures shall not be considered as workers'
compensation claims unless an illness develops out of a work-related incident.

Medical evaluations which are not related to a workers' compensation claim, but are
required by the department or other regulatory agency shall be paid by the department.
Examples include, but are not limited to, CDL (Commercial Drivers' License)
requirements, audiometric exams, pulmonary lung tests related to respiratory protection,
and asbestos physicals for those whose duties include asbestos abatement. Each
department shall consider these items the same as providing safety equipment and
personal protective gear.

Departments shall retain medical records not related to workers' compensation until the
specific employee(s) has terminated employment.

3.0 Policy guidelines/procedures:

a. Risk Management does not assess departments for the expenditures addressed in
this policy.

b. Departments shall be responsible for developing procedures for providing
vaccinations and medical evaluations for their specific medical needs.

c. OR-OSHA and ADA require that all medical records obtained shall be kept
confidential and separate from personnel records. Medical records shall include
any record of an incident denoting exposure to a disease or hazardous substance.
Each department shall make provisions to properly keep these records. Access
shall be limited to the employee or his/her designated representative, the
employer, or OSHA when a written access order has been provided.  The
record(s) shall be kept by each department until the termination of employment by
the employee. The department shall then send the file to Risk Management. Risk
Management shall periodically forward these records to the County Clerk for
storage according to applicable state and federal statutes.

d. Risk Management shall serve as a resource to departments regarding these
procedures. Risk Management will assist in coordination with the Health
Department or other entities for provision of vaccinations or medical evaluations
at the least cost available. Requirements for OR-OSHA and ADA as it relates to
workers' compensation and incident report forms will be coordinated with
individual departments by Risk Management.

Adopted: 1/93
Reviewed: 1/96