207.1
ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES

SECTION: General Administration POLICY #: 207
TITLE: Volunteers and Volunteer Service
PROCEDURE #: 207-A and 207-B
ORDER #:
DEPT: Human Resources  PROGRAM: Volunteer Services
ADOPTED: 8/96 REVIEWED: 8/09 REVISED: 03/25

PURPOSE:  To establish a policy that supports the participat ion and involvement of
members of the public through unpaid volunteer, work experience, and
student internship opportunities within Marion County departments.

AUTHORITY:  The Marion County Board of Commissioners may estab lish rules and
regulations in reference to managing the interest and business of the county
under ORS 203.010, 203.035, 203.111, and 203.230.

 The Marion County Board of Commissioners expresses  the governing
body’s official, organizational position on fundamental issues or specific
repetitive situations through formally adopted, written policy statements.
The policy statements serve to provide rules for public officials on the
conduct of county business.

 The Marion County Board of Commissioners’ Administ rative Policies and
Procedures manual outlines the forms and process through which the board
takes formal action on administrative policy. It is the official record of
county administrative policy.

APPLICABILITY:  All county departments, elected officials, appoint ed department heads,
employees, and volunteers.

GENERAL POLICY:  Marion County recognizes that volunteers are essen tial to the productivity,
efficiency, and cost effectiveness of government operations. Effective
management of volunteer programs is, therefore, a matter of significant
importance. Marion County Volunteer Services supports participation,
career experience, and community involvement through volunteer
opportunities within Marion County departments.

ELIGIBILITY:

Volunteers may be:
a.  Persons aged 18 years or older and providing services to the county without pay;
b.  County employees who have met the established criteria outlined in Section 2.4;
c.  Youth age 14-17 years, providing services to the county without pay, with written permission
from a parent or guardian;

207.2
d.  Children, age 7-13 years, accompanied by a parent or legal guardian, who are participating in
family volunteer activities;
e.  Persons who are in non-paid job experience or on-the-job training programs.

DEFINITIONS

Affiliated Volunteer: Any person who donates approved service to Marion County without pay or
reimbursement from Marion County other than approved incidental expenses or stipend for services
rendered. Affiliated volunteers have completed all county and department requirements to volunteer on a
regular basis and are covered by applicable policies and insurance.
a.  Program Volunteer – Any person who voluntarily performs a service or other undertaking for
a Marion County program, division, or department without pay or reimbursement; and who
works under the direction and supervision of County staff.
b.  Unpaid Intern or Practicum Student - Any person who works without pay at a trade or
occupation at Marion County while earning academic credit. Unpaid interns and practicum
students are considered affiliated volunteers when all county and department requirements are
met, and the appropriate agreements have been fully executed.
c.  Work Experience Assignments – Any person who works without pay in a trade or
occupation at Marion County while enrolled in a formal work experience program. Individuals
may receive subsidy or stipend through the work experience program and are considered
affiliated volunteers when all county and department requirements are met and the appropriate
agreements have been fully executed.
d.  Advisory Board Members – Any person appointed to, or serving on, a Marion County
advisory board, committee, commission, council, or multi-jurisdictional committee.
e.  Emergency Volunteers - Emergency volunteers who serve less than 60 days may be
recognized as affiliated volunteers with approval from Marion County Emergency
Management and upon receipt of a modified volunteer orientation that is applicable to their
duties.

Episodic Volunteer: Any person who donates time to Marion County without a long-term commitment,
filling an urgent or short-term need with minimal screening and training. Episodic volunteers complete
and sign a Volunteer Waiver and Release Form prior to providing any service. Episodic volunteers serve
less than 60 days.

Approved Service:  Volunteer positions that have been developed with, and approved by the volunteer
services coordinator, and documented in a Volunteer Service Profile. All affiliated volunteers must be
assigned to a Volunteer Service Profile. Department heads or their designee determine the extent to which
their programs utilize volunteers.

Volunteer Service Profile : Description of the volunteer opportunity, including work location where main
duties are performed, volunteer supervisor, required qualifications, training and/or certification
requirements, and the scope of work to be performed. The volunteer service profile may also include other
requirements such as minimum age, work schedule, licensing requirements, or supplemental information
that should be submitted with the application. A Volunteer Service Profile is required for all affiliated
volunteers.

207.3
POLICY GUIDELINES:

1.  RESPONSIBILITIES

1.1.  Volunteer Services Responsibilities:
1.1.  The county volunteer services coordinator is responsible for the facilitation, coordination,
implementation and encouragement of countywide volunteer programs and services, acting as a
resource for departments in the engagement, recruitment, placement, management, and
recognition of volunteers. Volunteer services will:
1.1.1.  Ensure that all affiliated volunteers are assigned to a volunteer service profile at
placement.
1.1.2.  Ensure that all affiliated volunteers receive appropriate screening, complete the county’s
New Volunteer Orientation (NVO), and receive a photo ID badge identifying them as a
volunteer.
1.1.3.  Manage the county volunteer database.
1.1.4.  Maintain volunteer worker records. The District Attorney’s Office, Juvenile
Department, and Sheriff’s Office maintain their volunteer worker records if specific
arrangements are not made with the volunteer services coordinator.
1.1.5.  Advise and provide support and training for developing volunteer service profiles,
recruiting, screening, orientation, training, and managing volunteers.
1.1.6.  Participate in the recruitment of advisory board members and provide support for
appointment of advisory board members.
1.1.7.  Serve as an internal consultant on volunteer management program best practices,
management techniques, questions, and issues.
1.1.8.  Develop and maintain the Volunteer Opportunities public website.
1.1.9.  Develop and maintain resources for volunteer managers on the county’s intranet site.
1.1.10.  Compile the county’s annual volunteer report.
1.1.11.  Oversee the implementation of annual volunteer awards and recognition.

1.2.  Department Responsibilities:
County departments are encouraged to involve volunteers in the implementation of services and
in support for paid staff. Department responsibilities include:

1.2.1.  Notify volunteer services coordinator of volunteer opportunities.
1.2.2.  Develop volunteer service profiles for their volunteer opportunities.
1.2.3.  Participate in volunteer recruitment.
1.2.4.  Interview referred volunteers to screen for department criteria.
1.2.5.  Execute any contracts, agreements, or credentialling needed for students, work
experience assignments, or community partnerships that involve volunteers.
1.2.6.  Cooperate with the volunteer services coordinator to ensure that all affiliated volunteers
go through the appropriate screenings, complete NVO, and are badged when working in
a county building.
1.2.7.  Ensure that all episodic volunteers submit a Volunteer Waiver and Release Form and
receive adequate training for the services performed.
1.2.8.  Provide department/program level orientation and on-site training for all volunteers.

207.4
1.2.9.  Provide day-to-day management of volunteers, regularly recognize volunteers for their
contributions, track and report on volunteers’ service, and document any performance
management activities or actions.
1.2.10.  Notify the volunteer services coordinator when a volunteer resigns or is released from
service.
1.2.11.  Train and support staff who have responsibility for volunteer management.
1.2.12.  Participate in the quarterly volunteer manager’s meeting and any county volunteer
services trainings.
1.2.13.  Maintain volunteer program records.

1.3.  Elected Officials, Department Heads, and Managers Responsibilities:

1.3.1.  Support the involvement of volunteers in county work where appropriate.
1.3.2.  Promote a consistent philosophy of volunteerism for the county.
1.3.3.  Ensure staff receive current information about volunteer involvement, work
collaboratively with volunteer services, and are held accountable for effective
participation in the volunteer program.

1.4.  Volunteer Responsibilities:

1.4.1.  Adhere to applicable policies and procedures while acting in their official duties as
outlined in their volunteer service profile.

2.  VOLUNTEER PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS

2.1.  Volunteer Application Forms

2.1.1.  Affiliated volunteers must complete a county volunteer application.
2.1.2.  Episodic volunteers must complete a Volunteer Registration and Waiver Form.

2.2.  Volunteer Service Profiles

2.2.1.  All affiliated volunteers must have a volunteer service profile on file with volunteer
services.
2.2.2.  Service profiles should be completed with adequate time to perform any required
screenings and training prior to the first day of performing volunteer service.

2.3.  Orientation and Training

2.3.1.  All affiliated volunteers shall complete the county’s New Volunteer Orientation (NVO)
and receive information regarding other pertinent policies and procedures no later than 15
days after the first date of service.
2.3.2.  Volunteers shall receive department specific orientation, and adequate training on their
specific volunteer role at the beginning of their service.
2.3.3.  Volunteers shall receive ongoing training to ensure they are prepared with the skills and
knowledge needed to be successful in their volunteer role.

207.5
2.4.  County Employees as Volunteers

2.4.1.  County employees may volunteer in county departments if the following criteria are met:
2.4.1.1.  The volunteer position is with an established volunteer program.
2.4.1.2.  The duties of the position are outside the employee's normal scope of work.
2.4.1.3.  The employee agrees that no work time will be used to perform the volunteer
duties.
2.4.1.4.  The employee submits the County Employee Waiver Form indicating that the
decision to volunteer is entirely their own and no payment for the work will be
made.
2.4.1.5.  Sheriff’s Office volunteer positions may be excluded or subject to additional
requirements as outlined in Sheriff’s Office policies.

2.5.  Advisory Board Volunteers

2.5.1.  Advisory board volunteers are appointed by the Board of Commissioners or Sheriff to
serve on county advisory boards, commissions, and committees. Guidelines regarding the
appointment and service of volunteers on county advisory boards are available in
Administrative Policy 203, Appointment to Advisory Boards and Committees. Information
and resources about the management of advisory board volunteers is available on the
county intranet or through the volunteer services coordinator.

2.6.  Working Agreements with Partners

2.6.1.  Marion County departments may have the opportunity to cooperate or collaborate on
projects with other governments, agencies, or community groups. If volunteers will be
used, departments who are involved in the planning for these projects must identify who is
responsible for management and liability of volunteers involved.

2.7.  Use of Vehicles

2.7.1.  Volunteers who qualify as drivers per Marion County Administrative Policy 502 Driving
on County Business may drive a county vehicle or a personal vehicle as part of their
volunteer work if approved to do so. Volunteers may also transport clients in a county
vehicle if approved to do so. Approval is contingent on the volunteer meeting the county’s
driving criteria as outlined in Administrative Policy 502 and having driving duties clearly
defined in the volunteer service profile.

2.8.  Volunteer Injury Coverage

2.8.1.  Marion County provides accident and liability insurance for affiliated volunteers while
they are performing duties within the scope of their volunteer assignment.
2.8.2.  Affiliated volunteers are covered by the Volunteer Injury Coverage Policy or in the case
for some Sheriff’s Office positions, the county’s self-insured workers compensation
program.
2.8.3.  Volunteers must immediately report any injuries while volunteering to their immediate
supervisor.

207.6
2.8.4.  All volunteer injuries reported to the volunteer’s supervisor must be reported to Risk
Management within 24 hours of the incident.

2.9.  Americans with Disabilities Act

2.9.1.  Marion County does not discriminate on the basis of disability in admission to, access to,
or operations of its programs, services, or activities.  Under Title II of the ADA, each
county program or service, when viewed in its entirety, will be readily accessible to and
usable by qualified individuals with disabilities.

2.10.  Drug and Alcohol Free Workplace

2.10.1.  Marion County is committed to maintaining a workplace free of drug and alcohol use.
2.10.2.  While on duty or on Marion County premises, being under the influence of prescription or
nonprescription medications that impair a volunteer’s ability to safely perform the
assigned duties of their volunteer position or compromise the health and safety of others is
prohibited.
2.10.3.  While on duty, on county premises, or in a county vehicle, volunteers shall not possess,
consume, use, manufacture, distribute, cause to be brought, dispense, purchase, or sell
alcohol, or alcohol containers.
2.10.4.  While on duty, on county premises, or in a county vehicle, volunteers shall not possess,
consume, use, manufacture, distribute, cause to be brought, dispense, purchase, or sell
drugs or drug paraphernalia, including all forms of marijuana that is otherwise lawful to
use under state law.
2.10.5.  An exception is made when the alcohol containers are sealed and purchased or collected
in conjunction with a county authorized event.

2.11.  Standard of Conduct

2.11.1.  Volunteers are expected to adhere to administrative and departmental policies and
procedures while acting in their official duties as outlined on the volunteer service profile.
2.11.2.  Departments may create additional policies and procedures that are specific to the
department’s use of volunteers.
2.11.3.  Volunteers are expected to adhere to the same confidentiality guidelines as employees.

2.12.  End of Service

2.12.1.  Volunteers who do not adhere to the policies and procedures of the county or who are
unable to perform their volunteer assignments at a satisfactory level may be released from
service.
2.12.2.  If placement is not suitable for the volunteer and/or does not meet the department needs,
volunteers may be reassigned or released from service.
2.12.3.  Volunteers are at-will and may be released at any time, for any reason.

207.7
3.  COMPLIANCE WITH STATUTES AND ORDINANCES
Nothing contained in this statement of policy shall be construed to be in conflict with any state law or
Marion County ordinance. Should there be an appearance of conflict, the appropriate state law or
county ordinance shall prevail.

4.  EXCEPTIONS
There are no exceptions to this policy.

5.  IMPLEMENTATION
5.1.  The volunteer services coordinator supports the countywide implementation of this policy.
5.2.  Elected officials and department heads are expected to be knowledgeable of, and shall be
responsible for, implementing this policy within their respective departments and offices.

6.  PERIODIC REVIEW
This policy shall be reviewed by the county volunteer services coordinator at least every three (3)
years, or more often if needed, and revised as necessary.

Adopted:  08/96

Revised:   02/99