202-A.1
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES

TITLE: Public Records Management PROCEDURE #: 202-A
DEPT: County Clerk’s Office  DIVISION: n/a
EFFECTIVE DATE: 4/84 REVIEWED: 2/09 REVISED: 04/19

OBJECTIVE: To establish a procedure for implementation of Division 17 Oregon
Administrative Rule (OAR) Digital Imaging systems and accessing County
Archive services.  The Clerk, as necessary and consistent with the policies
may revise these procedures.

REFERENCE: Policy # 202.

POLICY STATEMENT: Establish an integrated approach by Marion County for managing public
records from their creation to their ultimate disposition.

APPLICABILITY: All officers, employees and agents for Marion County.

PROCEDURES:

DIGITAL IMAGING SYSTEMS

1. System Documentation:  All digital imaging systems that store digitized public records with a
retention period of ten years or more shall have system documentation on file with the Marion
County Clerk, no later than 30 days of the install of new system.  This documentation shall
include a narrative description of the digital imaging system, the retention period of the original
records, the header label used in the system, and an estimate of the life expectancy of the digital
imaging system.  If the life expectancy of the system is less than the retention period of the records
it stores, system documentation shall also include a description of how access to digital images of
records will be maintained.

2. Image Quality:  Digitized document shall be verified after digitization.  Documentation describing
each inspection shall be maintained for each digital imaging system and shall include the date of
inspection, name of inspector(s), group of documents inspected, and sample size (if applicable).
Scanner Quality control procedure shall conform to ANSI/AIIM MS44-1988.  Recommended
Practice for Quality Control of Image Scanners, which is incorporated by reference and is
available from the Association for Information and Image Management, 1100 Wayne Avenue,
Suite 1100 Silver Spring, MD 20910.  In addition, the following standards apply to digital images:

a. Office documents containing fonts no smaller than six-point shall be scanned at a
minimum density of 200 dpi.  Documents containing fonts smaller than six-point,
architectural and engineering drawing, maps, and line art shall be scanned at a minimum
density of 300 dpi.

202-A.2
b. If documents are digitized using fax technology, the fax mechanism must be capable of
transmitting and receiving both 200 and 300 dpi images.

c. Digitized documents shall support CCIT group 3 or 4 compression techniques.  Digitized
photographs and halftone images shall also support or provide a gateway to JPEG
compression techniques.

3. Indexing:  All documents in a digital imaging system shall be indexed and retrievable.  Document
image indexes shall be preserved as long as the document images are maintained in the system.

4. Storage Requirements:

a. The following standards apply to the storage of digital disks containing public records:

1) Environmental conditions for the operation, maintenance, and storage of digital
imaging system equipment and storage media shall meet or exceed manufacturer’s
specifications.

2) Digital imaging system equipment shall be maintained in proper working condition.
Manufacturer’s guidelines for preventive maintenance shall be followed and
defective equipment shall not be used.

b. In addition to the standards in section (1) of this rule the following standards apply to the
long–term storage of information on digital disks:

1) Digital images shall be recorded and stored by means of a technology that does not
allow their subsequent revision or replacement.

2) The digital disk substrate shall be either polycarbonate or tempered glass.

3) Only Digital disks with a 20-year life expectancy, based on accelerated aging tests
linked to a specific disk location, may be used.

4) Digital imaging system storage media shall be inspected annually.  This inspection
should include visual examination of the medium and its housing, followed by the
retrieval or play-back of recorded information.  Documentation describing each
inspection shall be maintained for each digital imaging system and shall include the
date of inspection, name of inspector(s), and storage media inspected.  Link to form
(will be set up as link at time of release).
202-A.3
5. Expungement of information stored on WORM Media:  Expungement of digital images stored on
WORM digital disks shall conform to the Expungement of Information Recorded on Digital
Write-Once-Read-Many (WORM) Systems (TR28-1991) which is incorporated by reference and
is available from Association of Information and Image Management, 1100 Wayne Avenue, Suite
1100, Silver Spring, MD 20910.

6. Access:  Before any agency acquires or makes a major modification to any digital imaging system,
equipment or software to store or retrieve public records, it shall assure that such proposed system,
equipment or software adequately provides for the rights of the public to access and copy public
records under ORS 192.410 to 192.505:

a. Agencies shall not enter into contracts with any person or entity if the contract will impair
the right of the public under state law to inspect or copy the agency’s nonexempt public
records existing online in, or stored on a device or media in connection with digital
imaging system owned, leased or otherwise used by an agency in the course of its
governmental functions.

b. Digital imaging systems shall use non-proprietary header labels, the system must be able to
read images with non-proprietary header labels and produce images with nonproprietary
header labels.

7. Retention:

a. Public records with a scheduled retention period of less than 100 years may be stored on
digital disks.  The original record may be disposed of following verification of acceptable
digital image quality.  Images stored on digital disks shall be copied onto new digital disks
after no more than ten years.  Images must be recopied until the retention period of the
original public records has been satisfied.

b. Public records with a scheduled retention period of 100 years or more may be stored on
digital disk devices provided that the original records are retained in hard copy or on
microfilm for the entire scheduled retention period.

ARCHIVES

1. Sending physical records:

a. It is the requestor’s responsibility to insure proper packing of the physical records.

1) Files are in alphabetical, numerical or chronological order.

2) Numbering in sequential order of multiple boxes.

3) Inventory list should be made for each box sent to Archives.

4) Files are facing in the same direction as the front of the box, seam to the back.

202-A.4
5) Files are packed with a minimum of 2 inches of empty space.  Two fingers should
fit between files and box.

6) There will be no additions to an archived box.  Once a box is sent to archives it is
considered complete in its inventory.

7) Absolutely no hanging files are to be used as file holders for archiving in boxes.

b. Obtain an official Marion County archive box that will carry a charge (current market
value per box). The agency is also charged per lb of box when a box is burned.

c. Obtain an official Marion County sticker for the archive box; follow directions on Exhibit
 # 1 for sticker placement.

d. Supplies: contact Archives 503.588.5490 OR Office Max P512513 to request boxes and
lids.

e. Transmittal will be available online or by e-mail: archive@co.marion.or.us.

f. Directions for placement of archive sticker (Exhibit #1):

1) Facing the box with handles on the side with the seam of box to the back, label
shall be placed on the left side toward the middle.

2) Front of the box is for the Archives information only.

3) Handles shall be punched to the inside of the box.

4) No staples shall be put on lids.

5) Weight may not exceed 35 lbs per box.

g. Directions to fill out Archive sticker (Exhibit #2):

1) Description of label (no fill).

2) Department or agency.

2a) Division if different.

3) Type of documents.

4) From: alpha, chronological or numeric.

4a) Same as 4.

5) Must be the date range of records.
202-A.5

5a) Must be box numbers in sequential order if in a grouping.

6) Inventory: Optional (your option).

6a) Restricted: Optional mark yes or no.

7) Date of Receipt: Option of Archives.

8) Destruction date. (Departments option or Archives option).

h. Sender will need to fax transmittal (Exhibit #3 and #4).

1) Agency (must be agency name) example: Business Services, District Attorney,
Sheriff’s office etc.

2) Division or office example: Payroll, Support Enforcement, and Corrections etc.

3) Accession number is reserved for Archives. This is the number that will be
assigned by archives to correctly identify the group of boxes going to Archives.

4) Item Number: This section identifies specific groups. Example:

i. Different types of documents.
ii. Different range of years.
iii. Different age groups with different retentions adult versus juvenile.

5) Total number of boxes.  Boxes for item number.

6) Title of Record Series. Use the OAR’s Retention Schedules for this, and insert the
current OAR #.  Example: Employee time records (title) 166.150.0155(3)(number).

7) Retention period:  Time of retention required by OAR - Employee time records
retention is 4 yrs.

8) Covering Dates.  Beginning date of files example 1/1/2007.

9) Covering Dates.  Ending Date of files examples 12/31/2007.

10) Signature of person archiving for the agency or division.

11) Date of signature for the person from the agency or division.

12) Signature of person picking up the boxes for archives.

13) Date Archives person signed when picking up.

202-A.6
2. Requesting Physical records from Archives:

a. The person working for the agency must call Archives @ 503.588.5490 and have the
following available for archive to retrieve the file:

1) Callers name.

2) Department.

3) Phone number of requestor.

4) Accession number.

5) Item number if needed.

6) Box number.

7) File identified as: name, date or alpha letter.

8) If needed:  birth date of client.

9) If needed:  identifying number on file.

10) If needed:  number of files for this request.

b. The person requesting files must work for the agency that owns the file.  Example:  The
DA’s office cannot request files owned by Sheriff’s office.  The DA’s office must go
through the Sheriff’s office & the Sheriff’s office will need to make the request for the file.

c. Some agencies give Archives a list of people who may request (confidential files) from
their agency. Archives will check with contact from agency if somebody who is not on that
list but is requesting a file from that agency’s files.

d. Archives will retrieve requested files within 24 hrs of request.

e. Archives send files through the inter-office mail to outlining offices, which will delay
delivery of requested files.

3. How destruction of physical records from archival storage happens:  Destruction transmittal must
be completed.  Either Marion County Archives or agency can complete but only when retentions
on the documents are met (Exhibit #5).

a) Completed with Agency name and with division of agency if applicable.

b) Date of request.

c) Record series and title.  Follow OAR’s titles.
202-A.7

d) Inclusive dates of the records up for destruction.

e) Cubic feet (issued archive boxes are considered to measure 1 cubic foot).

f) Retention is the amount of years required under OAR for this record series.

g) Retention authorization is the OAR number 166.150.---- ( ).

h) Department manager will need to sign two originals destruction transmittals and send to
Archives.

i) Archives will check and sign off authorization for destruction.

j) Once a truck capacity is met for burning, archives will arrange for a large enough truck to
take. (Agency will be charged per box at this time).

k) Once destruction authorizations have been signed for recycle destruction, Garten Services
will be called for pick up at Archives.

l) Once the destruction happens Archives will sign off as to when and how the records were
destroyed.

m) One original will be sent to the agency for their records and one original will be kept by
archives.  These are permanent records that must be kept to document destruction of public
records.

E-MAIL:

To be entered at a later date.

202-A.8

Exhibit 1
202-A.9

Exhibit 2
202-A.10

Exhibit 3
202-A.11

Exhibit 4
202-A.12

Exhibit 5