803-Policy  1
ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES

SECTION: Property Management  POLICY #: 803
TITLE: Leasing Equipment from Employees PROCEDURE #:
 ORDER #: 96-9
DEPT: Finance DIVISION:
ADOPTED: 1/85 REVIEWED:  REVISED: 1/96

1.0 Purpose

This establishes a policy and procedure necessary to lease equipment from employees of
Marion County.

2.0 General Policy

The Board of Commissioners does not approve of leasing equipment from employees of
Marion County, except in a severe emergency, such as a natural disaster, when no other
reasonable alternative is available.

3.0 Policy Guidelines/Procedures

a. Establishing Need

(1) Department Heads must establish that equipment is not available from
county equipment pools, is not practical to buy, or, if equipment is on
order, that circumstances render waiting until delivery impractical.

(2) Department Heads or designee must be able to establish immediate need,
and that reasonable alternatives are not available.

b. Establishing Economy of Lease Rate

(1) Department Heads must be able to document that the lease rate paid to
employee/lessor:

(a) Is less than or equal to competitive and available rates.

803 – Policy  2
(b) Does not include any charge whatsoever for operator time or
wages or fringe benefits.

(c) Is fully burdened with the costs of all risks that would be borne by
a commercial rental business, such as insurance, maintenance, etc.,
and that additional payments to the employee/lessor -- exclusive of
lease payments -- for such insurance, maintenance, etc., will not be
authorized.

  (2) Marion County will not pay an unreasonably high lease rate; it shall be
adjusted even if the Department Head or designee has made a verbal com-
mitment for a higher rate.

(3) To support payment, Department Head must submit written justification as
per 3.a.2 and 3.b.2. above.  Copies of these shall be submitted with the
fund claim for payment.

(4) All payments to employee/lessors will be reported to the IRS via 1099
form at the end of the year.

Adopted:  1/85
Revised:  1/96