522.1
ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES

SECTION: Health, Safety & Security POLICY #: 522
TITLE: PROCEDURE #: 522-A

Identity Theft Protection
ORDER #: 08-62
DEPT: Business Services DIVISION: Risk Management
ADOPTED: 5/08 REVIEWED:  REVISED:

PURPOSE: To establish a policy that prot ects employees and customers from identity
theft as a result of accidental disclosure of personal identifying information.

AUTHORITY: The Marion County Board of Commissioners may establish rules and
regulations in reference to managing th e interest and business of the county
under ORS 203.010, 203.035 and 203.111.

The Marion County Board of Commi ssioners expresses the governing
body’s formal, organizational position of fundamental issues or specific
repetitive situations through formally adopted, written pol icy statements.
The policy statements serve as guide s to decision making for both elected
and appointed officials on the conduct of county business.

The Marion County Administrative Polic ies and Procedures manual of the
Board of Commissioners outlines the forms and process through which the
board takes official action on admini strative policy, and is the official
record of county administrative policy.

APPLICABILITY: All county departments

GENERAL POLICY: This policy establishes the re quirements to protect personal identifying
information and required steps in the event of a security breach, as man-
dated by the Oregon Consumer Identity Theft Protection Act (ORS
646A.600 through 646A.628) enacted by the Oregon Legislature in 2007.

POLICY GUIDELINES:

I. Definitions:

a. Personal Identifying Information and Personal In formation:  An indivi dual’s first name or
initial and last name, in combination with any of the following: social security number,
driver license number, state identification number, passport number or other federal identi-
fication, financial account numbers, and debit or credit card numbers in combination with
the required security information necessary to access the financial account.  Information
SUBJECT: IDENTITY THEFT PROTECTION

other than social security number that is re quired by federal, state or local government to
be made available to the public is not included.

b. Breach of Security:  The unauthorized acquis ition of computerized data that materially
compromises the security, confidentiality or integrity of the personal information main-
tained by the county.

c. Workforce Member:  Employees, volunteers, and other persons whose conduct in the per-
formance of work may provide them access to personal information.  This includes full-
and part-time employees, affiliates, associates, students, agents, volunteers, and staff from
third-party entities who provide services.

II. Responsibilities:

Effectively safeguarding personal information in cludes several components.  The following will
be included in the county program:

All workforce members are responsible for protecting personal information that is maintained
electronically and in document form.  Marion Count y department heads and elected officials are
responsible for ensuring the conf identiality, integrity, and appropriate use of all personal informa-
tion.

Personal information will be collected, used, and/or stored only when there is a legitimate business
need to do so.  Departments will evaluate their need for personal information and, where possible,
reduce the collection of sensitive consumer data.

Requests for and access to personal information will be limited to only those members of the
workforce having a legitimate business need for the information.  Department heads and elected
officials will determine which members of the wo rkforce have a legitimate business need for such
information.

All departments will provide regular training an d awareness for workforce members on the policy
and procedures for safeguarding personal information.

All departments must regularly identify, define a nd prioritize risks to the safeguarding of personal
information.  The identification, definition and prioritization of ri sks must be based on a formal
documented risk assessment process.  The risk assessment process will be conducted annually and
will be coordinated by risk management.  Departments will develop and submit to risk manage-
ment plans to address deficiencies identified in the risk assessment. 522.2
SUBJECT: IDENTITY THEFT PROTECTION

Personal information hosted on Marion County inform ation systems will be protected.  The infor-
mation technology department will be responsibl e for implementing controls necessary to
reasonably safeguard personal information containe d on information systems.  Securing that data
may include but is not limited to:

a. Encryption and decryption policies
b. Password management
c. Log-in monitoring
d. Portable electronic devi ce data security protocols
e. Electronic device and media disposal procedures

III. Breach:

The information technology department’s designa ted security manager and the county’s risk
manager, in cooperation with the appropriate depa rtment head, will investigate any and all alleged
breaches that involve personal information.

In the event of a breach to the security of computerized personal information, Marion County must
notify Oregon residents whose information is believed to have been compromised by the unau-
thorized person(s).  Security breach notification must adhere to the following:

a. Notification must be done as quickly as possible.

b. Notification may be delayed if a law enforcem ent agency determines that notification will
impede a criminal investigation and the agency  has made a written request that the notifi-
cation be delayed.  Notification shall be made after the law enforcement agency determines
that the disclosure of the breach will not compromise the investigation.

c. The preferred method of notification is in wr iting.  However, electronic notification can be
used if that is the primary means of communication with that consumer.

d. In the event that notification costs are mo re than $250,000 or the number of individuals
requiring notification is more than 350,000, notification may occur through mass media.

e.       Violation of this policy may result in discipline up to and includ ing discharge, subject to
applicable collective bargaining agreements and personnel rules.
522.3