ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES

SECTION: Financial Management POLICY #: 409
TITLE: Administrative Charges PROCEDURE #:
 RESOLUTION #: 04-12R
DEPT: Financial Services DIVISION:
ADOPTED: 4/29/2004 REVIEWED:4/24                  REVISED:

1. POLICY

1.1 Policy:  It is the policy of Marion County to identify the full cost of delivering
programs and services that benefit the county as a whole. Administrative Charges
provide a useful means of accounting for such centralized activities as human
resources, financial services, risk and facilities management, information
technology, and Board of Commissioners’ oversight. It is the intent of the Board
of Commissioners that all departments, agencies, and funds help support the
central service operations of Marion County.

1.2 Principles: These principles shall govern the application of this policy:

1. Demonstrable relevance of charges assessed to services received by county
departments;
2. A rational methodology that is understandable and practical to administer;
3. Fairness and equity across county departments, regardless of funding sources
within a department;
4. Consistent application over time to provide predictability in department
budgets;
5. Reasonable restraint in the growth of administrative infrastructure to minimize
the impacts on services to citizens; e.g., public safety, transportation, health
and mental health services, while assuring adequate and appropriate
accountability for public funds.
6. Responsive to environmental influences.

2. REFERENCES AND GUIDELINES

2.1 Statutory References:  In Recommended Budget Practices:  A Framework for
State and Local Government Budgeting, the Government Finance Officers
Association (GFOA), recommends that governments adopt policies that “identify
the manner in which fees and charges are set and the extent to which they cover
the cost of the service provided.”  The report also stated “… policies on fees and
charges should be publicly available and summarized in materials used in budget
preparation...” Costs of service include direct and indirect costs such as operating
and maintenance costs, overhead, and charges for use of capital (depreciation and
debt service).  A government may choose not to cover all costs, but it should
identify such costs.  Reasons for not recovering full costs should be identified and
explained.  Federal OMB Circular A-87 guides allocation charges on federal

funds.  Finally, the board of commissioners is authorized to manage county
business pursuant to ORS 203.010 and 203.035.

2.2 County Legislative or Historical References:  In February 2002, the Marion
County Board of Commissioners received a report from Aldrich Kilbride &
Tatone LLP which recommended issues and methodologies related to allocating
core administrative costs. The board adopted the report and the methodology was
implemented beginning with the 2002-03 fiscal year.  Recommended steps were:

1. Identification of total costs to be included in the cost pools;
2. Decisions on whether to allocate 100% or portions of the costs;
3. Decisions on what allocation methods to use;
4. Analysis of funding issues and special exceptions.

Other recommendations included:

1. Consideration of direct allocation of some costs;
2. Establishing reserves for equipment and building expenses;
3. Showing central administrative cost allocations in General Fund cost
centers.

3. OPERATIONAL GUIDELINES – GENERAL

3.1 Approval by Board: The Marion County Board of Commissioners shall review
and approve the administrative charges assessment and allocation methodologies
prior to developing budget instructions each fiscal year.

3.2 Responsibilities:  Marion County’s Chief Administrative Officer and Budget
Officer shall generally oversee implementation of the county’s administrative
charges processes.  Elected officials and department heads shall be responsible for
communicating the impacts of administrative charges on county services to the
CAO and Board of Commissioners.

3.3 Basis:  Administrative charges, shall be assessed using a board-approved
methodology.  Changes in application or methodology that result in any
significant impacts to county services shall not be implemented without prior
approval of the Chief Administrative Officer and the Board of Commissioners.

Administrative charges shall be computed based on the actual expenses associated
with central service operations and debt service.  These costs include personal

services and materials and services associated with the following county
departments:

1. Board of Commissioners Office
 (excluding commissioners’ salaries, dues and memberships);
2. Business Services;
3. Information Technology;
4. Non-Departmental

3.4 Expenditures:   Administrative charges represent non-cash transactions between
county departments. Charges shall be assessed on actual expenditures on a
monthly basis.  Administrative charges allocation will be rebalanced on a
timetable established by the board, and budgets for non-General Fund
departments will be adjusted accordingly.  Any unexpended General Funds shall
revert to the fund at the end of the fiscal year.

3.5 Exceptions:  The primary funding sources of some programs administered by the
county may restrict the type and/or amount of administrative charges that will be
reimbursed. In such instances, an alternative funding source for the non-
reimbursable administrative charges shall be provided.

3.6 Periodic Review: The Chief Administrative Officer and/or Budget Officer shall
review this policy at least every three (3) years.

BOC Resolution No.: 04-12R

Adopted:  April 29, 2004