490-A.1

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES

TITLE: General Reserves

PROCEDURE #: 490-A
DEPT: Finance DIVISION:
EFFECTIVE DATE: 4/08 REVIEWED: 6/19, 4/22, 4/24 REVISED:

OBJECTIVE: To establish a procedure for setting budgeted amounts for general fund
contingency and unappropriated ending fund balance and rainy day fund
unappropriated reserve.

REFERENCE: Policy #490

POLICY STATEMENT: It is the policy of the Marion County Board of Commissioners that
procedures will be developed to determine the appropriate amount to be
budgeted for contingency and unappropriated ending fund balance in the
general fund and the unappropriated reserve in the rainy day fund.

APPLICABILITY: Marion County General Fund and Rainy Day Fund

PROCEDURES:

1. The budget officer shall prepare a schedule of estimated general fund resources for the upcoming
budget year.  This schedule shall be reviewed and approved by the Marion County Council of
Economic Advisors.

2. The budget officer shall use the approved schedule of estimated general fund resources as the basis
for preparing the calculation of required contingency, unappropriated ending fund balance and
unappropriated reserve amounts.  Refinements to the schedule of estimated resources may be made
over the course of the budget process as additional information is collected, documented and
approved by the budget officer.

3. For purposes of arriving at a basis for calculations prescribed by the general reserves policy
(#490), estimated general fund resources shall be adjusted as follows to arrive at adjusted general
fund resources.

3.1 Estimated general fund resources may be adjusted for any extraordinary changes or one-
time resources that, after the appropriate analysis, are determined to have any material
unintended effects on contingency and ending fund balance calculations. Adjustments
must be documented and approved by the budget officer.

3.2 Estimated general fund resources may also be adjusted for material “transfers in” that are
determined to be unique or “one-time” transfers. Transfers that are expected to occur each
year and are applicable to operations should be included.  Exclusions must be documented
and approved by the budget officer.
490-A.2
SUBJECT: GENERAL RESERVES

3.3 Net working capital shall be excluded from estimated general fund resources for purposes
of this calculation.

3.4 The chief financial officer shall ensure that the calculations are correctly applied. The
budget officer shall ensure that the proposed budget is balanced and contains the
appropriate amounts according to the policy. If the budget officer’s proposed balanced
budget does not comply with the guidelines of the policy, the budget officer shall present
the differences to the budget committee with supporting recommendations.

4. The budget as approved by the Marion County  Budget Committee shall contain general fund
contingency, unappropriated ending fund balance and rainy d ay fund unappropriated reserve
amounts that meet the policy requirements.

5. The Marion County Board of Commissioners shall ensure the adopted budget complies with the
general reserves policy.