903.1
ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES

SECTION: Purchasing POLICY #: 903

TITLE:

Establishment and Use of Petty Cash Funds

PROCEDURE #: 903-A
 RESOLUTION#: 06-36R
DEPT: Treasurer’s Office DIVISION: Treasurer
ADOPTED: 4/84 REVIEWED: 9/95 REVISED:

1.0 Purpose

This establishes policy and procedure concerning petty cash funds.

2.0 General Policy

a. A petty cash fund may be established in any department as a change fund or
true petty cash fund as defined below:

1) Change funds are established for the exclusive purpose of making
change.

2) Petty cash funds provide for small amounts of cash on hand and are
primarily used to make minor disbursements of $50.00 or less.

b. Approval of County Administrative Officer and the Board of Commissioners
must be obtained to establish or modify petty cash or change fund.

c. The Treasurer will conduct audits of petty cash funds and change funds in
county departments.

3.0 Policy Guidelines/Procedures

a. Establishment of petty cash funds

1) A signed Fund Claim and a letter of request must be submitted to the
Treasurer stipulating the following:

- The name of the person designated by the Department Head or
Elected Official to receive and be responsible for the fund - the
petty cash custodian.
- The specific purpose for which the fund is to be used.
- If another fund, or funds, exists(s), clearly distinguish the
different uses planned for each fund.
- The amount of the fund.
SUBJECT: ESTABLISHMENT AND USE OF PETTY CASH FUNDS

903.2
- The provisions made to assure control of the fund.

2) The Treasurer shall process the request as follows:

- Approve the proposed control measures for the fund.
- Prepare the Board Order to establish or change the fund.
- Submit the request to County Administrative Officer and Board of
Commissioners for approval.
- Charge an appropriate asset account to establish the fund, via
the Fund Claim.
- Process the Fund Claim and issue a check to the department
requesting the fund.

b. Expenditures of Petty Cash Funds

1) An authorized signer must approve all expenditures from the fund.  By
approval, the authorized signer attests that the disbursement meets the
following requirements:

- Immediate need of an item not available from vendors under
contract to the county.
- Reimbursement for a meeting or conference.
- The cost of the item(s) for reimbursement will be $50.00 or less.

2) A requisition for petty cash reimbursement must be prepared explaining
or describing the item(s) purchased, the fund, cost center and account
number and the total cost.

3) If an employee has paid for the item(s), s/he must attach a receipt to
the requisition form.

4) The employee who purchased the item(s) from petty cash must sign the
requisition form and obtain the signature of an authorized signer in the
department.  The requisition (with receipt[s]) shall then be given to the
department's petty cash custodian within three (3) days of the
expenditure.

c. Reimbursement of Petty Cash Fund

1) The custodian of the petty cash fund will verify that the requisition form
is properly completed, signed by recipient of cash and a vendor's receipt
(or explanation of its absence) is attached.

2) Completed requisition forms for petty cash reimbursement must be
retained and filed as part of the internal control.  Note:  The total
SUBJECT: ESTABLISHMENT AND USE OF PETTY CASH FUNDS

903.3
number of disbursements from the fund as represented by the
requisition forms, plus cash on hand in the fund, must always equal the
total of the petty cash fund as originally established.

3) The following documentation must be submitted, as needed, to
replenish the fund:  Completed Requisition for Petty Cash
Reimbursement Forms, a Count and Request for Reimbursement Form
and a Fund Claim showing account numbers and amounts must be
submitted by an authorized person to the Treasurer’s office.  Upon
receipt of the above, the Treasurer shall take appropriate steps to
replenish the Petty Cash Fund.

4.0 Review:

Adopted: 4/84
Revised: 9/95
Revised: 7/06