302-A.1

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES

TITLE: Leave Donation Program PROCEDURE #: 302-A
  DEPT:      Human Resources DIVISION: Human Resources
EFFECTIVE DATE:     03/95 REVIEWED: 12/09 REVISED:                  09/20

OBJECTIVE: To establish a procedure for the leave donation program.
REFERENCE: Policy # 302
POLICY STATEMENT: The Leave Donation Program allows employees to voluntarily transfer
accrued vacation hours to the sick leave account of an eligible employee
who has exhausted all accrued leave and benefits.

APPLICABILITY:  All benefits-eligible county employees who are unable to perform the
duties of their position because of a serious illness or injury which is life
threatening or which will require a lengthy convalescence.

PROCEDURES:

1. Requesting Employee

a. Any employee qualifying as a requesting employee as outlined  in Policy 302 may
request a donation of hours by completing the Request to Receive Donated Vacation
Leave form.  The form may be obtained from human resources (HR) or the HR intranet
page.

b. Requests for leave donation must be submitted to the HR Leave Administrator for review
and approval.

c. The request for donated leave will be reviewed in a confidential and objective manner.
All determinations made by HR regarding qualification for donated leave are final.

d. The requesting employee shall provide the following information:

1) Name, employee number, department, work location, work phone, and
employment status;
2) Medical certification from the attending physician or other applicable health care
provider with respect to the qualifying condition submitted with the Family and
Medical Leave Act (F M LA ) application which meets the applicability
definition under the policy; and
3) Any additional information that may be required to verify the information in the
recipient’s leave request.
SUBJECT:  LEAVE DONATION PROGRAM
302-A.2

e. The requesting employee must have exhausted all accumulated leave and benefits
including compensatory time, personal holidays, vacation leave, sick leave, and
compensation credits prior to being eligible to use any donated leave hours.
1) If it can be shown that all accrued leave will be exhausted during the anticipated
period of leave, the request may be made prior to the actual qualifying event.

f. The maximum amount of donated leave available for employees who work 40 hours per
week will not exceed 480 hours, and the maximum hours of donated leave available for
employees who work 37.5 hours per week will not exceed 450 hours in a qualifying event.
1) The county will determine eligibility under this provision by the use of the rolling
12-month basis referenced in the Policy 302.

2. Donating Employee

a. An employee may donate vacation hours by completing the Authorization to Donate
Vacation form found on the HR intranet site  and submitting it to the department payroll
representative.

b. Leave may be donated only in hour increments.

3. Human Resources Responsibility
a. The leave administrator will notify the requesting employee of their eligibility for donated
leave.

b. Human resources will determine, within 5 business days of receipt of the request, whether
the request for leave donation is consistent with the policy.

c. If the request is approved, HR will notify the department payroll representative
of the decision.

d. If the request is denied, HR will notify both the department payroll representative and
the employee. The employee will be notified by letter.

e. The request will be filed in the employee’s family medical leave file with the final
decision and all supporting documentation.

f. The department payroll representative will generate an e-mail to department employees
providing notification of the request for donated leave. If sufficient vacation hours are not
donated to cover the qualifying absence, the department payroll representative will
generate an all-county e-mail requesting vacation leave donations. HR will provide a
standard notice format that should be used for this purpose.

4. Department Responsibility

a. The department representative is responsible for collecting Authorization to Donate
Vacation Leave forms from all donating employees.

SUBJECT:  LEAVE DONATION PROGRAM
302-A.3
b. Payroll representatives will verify that the donating employees have sufficient hours
available to donate and will then forward the Authorization to Donate Vacation Leave
forms to payroll for processing.

5. Payroll Responsibility

a. Payroll will reduce the donor’s vacation balance according to the approved request forms
submitted by the department payroll representative.
b. Payroll will notify the donor of the transfer of leave.
c. Payroll shall file the original Authorization to Donate Vacation Leave form in the
donating employee’s payroll master file and a copy in the recipient’s payroll master file.
d. Vacation leave donations will be processed by date of submission until the approved
amount of donated leave is reached.

e. Payroll representatives will only submit donated hours needed for the pay period that
payroll is processing.

f. Vacation leave donations that exceed the approved amount needed by the requesting
employee will be returned to the donating employees and will not be processed.

g. Upon notification of the donation of hours, payroll will credit the receiving employee’s
record with the authorized hours, credited as sick leave. A copy of the approved leave
report shall be retained in Payroll.