ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES

SECTION: Financial Management  POLICY #: 402
TITLE: Collection of Accounts Receivable  PROCEDURE #:
 ORDER #:    96-9
DEPT: Fiscal Services  DIVISION:
ADOPTED: 1/86 REVIEWED:  REVISED: 1/96

1.0 Purpose

This policy and procedure sets forth the responsibility and methods to be used in
collecting amounts owed Marion County, via the central billing procedures of Marion
County Fiscal Services.

2.0 General Policy

It is the responsibility of each department to attempt to collect amounts owed to the
department.  Fiscal Services will send the original invoice, delinquent notices monthly,
and will also supply each department with a monthly report of aged receivables.  NSF
checks written to Marion County are to be considered bad debts.  NSF checks may be
submitted directly to Legal Counsel if the department so chooses.

3.0 Policy Guidelines/Procedures

Collection efforts may include, but are not necessarily limited to:

a. Telephone calls to debtors.

The caller must immediately identify themselves as a Marion County employee
and state the purpose of the call.  The objective of a telephone call to a debtor is to
obtain verbal commitment to pay.  Any commitments made should be specific as
to date and amount.  Dishonored commitments should result in immediate
vigorous renewed collection efforts.  The caller should keep detailed notes of
conversations with debtors.

b. Letter to debtors.
SUBJECT: COLLECTION OF ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE

You may indicate that Marion County will not extend further credit, that the debt
will be turned over to a collection agency, or that the matter will be submitted to
Marion County Legal Counsel for resolution.

c. Written agreement of payment schedule with debtor.

This must be clear, and specific as to dates and amounts and consequences of
dishonoring agreement.

d. Suspension of debtor's credit with Marion County.

See Item 3.b above.

e. Refer to Collection Agency

Prior to completion of the 90-day delinquency, the department will notify Fiscal
Services in writing to turn the debt over to a collection agency.

f. Obtaining Legal Counsel's help in collecting or filing suit to do so.

After collection efforts have failed, Fiscal or Departments should consult with
Legal Counsel concerning the collection of bad debts, and the long term effects of
decisions to pursue or not to pursue an individual debtor or category of debtors.

g. Writing off uncollectible debts

- Debts turned over to a collection agency will be written off based on
documentation submitted through Item e above.

- Bad debts resulting from NSF checks will be written off only upon
direction of Legal Counsel.

Adopted:  1/86
Revised:  1/96

Note: Reference memorandum from Marion County Legal Counsel, Bruce T. Armstrong dated
May 20, 1997, RE: New Collection Agency Contract.