302.1

ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES

SECTION: Human Resources POLICY #: 302
TITLE: Leave Donation Program
PROCEDURE #: 302-A
ORDER #: 20-091
DEPT: Human Resources PROGRAM: Benefits
ADOPTED: 03/95 REVIEWED:  REVISED:                           09/20

PURPOSE: The purpose of this policy is to establish rules for allowing county
employees to donate earned vacation hours to a county employee who
is absent from work due to a catastrophic health condition and has
exhausted all accrued leave and benefits.

AUTHORITY: The Marion County Board of Commissioners may establish rules and
regulations in reference to managing the interest and business of the
county under ORS 203.010, 203.035 and 203.111.

The Marion County Board of Commissioners expresses the governing
body’s official, organizational position on fundamental issues or specific
repetitive situations through formally adopted, written policy statements.
The policy statements serve to provide rules for public officials on the
conduct of county business.

Marion County Administrative Policies and Procedures outline the forms
and process through which the board takes formal action on administrative
policy. They are the official record of county administrative policy.

APPLICABILITY: All benefits-eligible county employees who are unable to perform the
duties of their position because of a serious illness or injury which is life
threatening or which will require a lengthy convalescence.

GENERAL POLICY: The Leave Donation Program allows employees to voluntarily transfer
accrued vacation hours to the sick leave account of an eligible employee
who has exhausted all accrued leave and benefits.

POLICY GUIDELINES:

1. RESPONSIBILITIES

1.1. Eligibility requirements are as follows:
1.1.1. Eligible employees must be unable to return to work due to their own serious illness or
injury which is life threatening or which will require a lengthy convalescence.
1.1.2. Eligibility for leave donations requires a medical certification indicating eligibility under

SUBJECT: LEAVE DONATION PROGRAM

302.2

Section 1.1.1.
1.1.3. To qualify as a donating employee, an employee must be a regular status employee
working half time or greater and have sufficient vacation leave accrued to cover donated
time.
1.1.4. Donating employees agree to make no future claim upon the county for compensation
associated with the hours donated.

1.2. Requesting Employee
1.2.1. The requesting employee must be on an approved leave certified under Policy 305,
Protected Leave, and the medical certification must meet the applicability definition under
this policy.
1.2.2. Donated leave cannot be used for intermittent leave purposes.
1.2.3. The requesting employee may receive donated during the period of Family Medical Leave
Act/Oregon Family Leave Act qualified leave that would otherwise be unpaid because
leave balances and benefits (i.e., compensation credits) have been reduced to zero.
1.2.4. A lifetime maximum of 600 hours may be donated to the affected employee during the
tenure of their employment with the county.
1.2.5. Due to the voluntary nature of this policy, the county makes no assurance that the affected
employee will receive any donations.

1.3. Service Accruals and Other Benefits
1.3.1. Donating employees may donate only accrued vacation leave.
1.3.2. Donated vacation leave will be converted on a straight hour-for-hour basis to the recipient
employee’s sick leave balance.
1.3.3. Employees using donated leave may be eligible for county-paid health benefits as required
under the Policy 305.
1.3.4. Employees may not receive donated leave while receiving workers’ compensation time
loss benefits.
1.3.5. It is prohibited for anyone to pressure, intimidate or otherwise attempt to convince any
employee to take action in a donation issue that is not of the employee’s own volition.

2. EXCEPTIONS

Any exceptions to this policy require approval by the Chief Human Resources Officer or designee.

3. IMPLEMENTATION

Marion County Human Resources is responsible for implementing this policy.

4. PERIODIC REVIEW

This policy shall be reviewed by Human Resources at least every three years, or more often if needed,
and updated as necessary.

Approved:  03/95
Reviewed: 12/09
Revised:  09/20