ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES

SECTION: Health, Safety & Security POLICY #: 512
TITLE: Physical Examinations PROCEDURE #:
 ORDER #: 96-32
DEPT: Risk Management DIVISION:
ADOPTED: 2/96 REVIEWED:  REVISED:

1.0 Purpose

This policy and procedure sets forth a consistent, county-wide process for conducting physical
examinations, either as a condition of appointment to specified job classifications, or to
determine fitness for duty or reasonable accommodation following injury or illness.  This policy
does not apply to work-related injuries or illnesses, which are covered by the Injured
Worker Policy (see page D-9).

2.0 General Policy

In order to ensure that physical examinations are conducted legally and consistently by all county
departments, a single contractor will be identified to provide this service.  The Risk Management
and Human Resources Departments will act as resource to departments regarding the
identification of the provider currently under contract to provide this service.  The Risk
Management and Human Resources Departments will also act as resource to departments
regarding procedural questions.

3.0 Policy guidelines/Procedures

3.1 PREAPPOINTMENT PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS

a. Before these procedures are followed, all other testing, interviewing, and
screening exercises, developed in order to identify the most qualified
candidate for a particular vacancy, must have been completed.

b. Upon identification of the most qualified candidate, the hiring supervisor
will issue a conditional job offer, i.e., a job offer conditioned upon the
candidate passing a physical examination to determine ability to perform
the physical requirements of the job.

c. The applicant will be advised to contact a clinic under contract to the
provider, to schedule a physical examination within a specified period of
time.

d. Upon completion of the physical examination, the clinic will forward
results to the contractor, who will then issue a medical evaluation report to
the hiring supervisor, advising on the results of the physical examination
and whether the candidate is physically capable of performing the
requirements of the job.

e. The hiring supervisor will advise the candidate on the results of the
physical examination.  The results will be that the candidate was
determined to be one of the following:  medically qualified, conditionally
qualified, medically unqualified, or conditionally unqualified.  Candidates
must contact the provider directly to discuss any details regarding the
results of their physical exam.

1) If the candidate has been determined medically qualified, a final
and formal job offer will be extended to that candidate.

2) If the candidate has been determined conditionally qualified, s/he
will be advised of the conditions which must be maintained in
order to retain qualified status.  A final and formal job offer will be
extended to that candidate conditioned upon continuing
qualification.

3) If the candidate has been determined medically unqualified, the
candidate will be so notified.  Possible accommodations will be
discussed by the applicant and hiring supervisor.  If no
accommodation can be identified which would enable the applicant
to perform the job, s/he will be disqualified from further
consideration for the vacancy.

4) If the candidate has been determined conditionally unqualified,
s/he will be advised of the conditions required to qualify, and
notified of a specified time period during which to meet those
conditions.  If the conditions are met, a final and formal job offer
will be extended to that candidate.

3.2 PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS TO DETERMINE FITNESS FOR DUTY

a. Should an employee sustain an injury or experience a period of serious
illness which may affect his/her physical ability to perform the essential
functions of his/her job, the employee's department management may

require the employee to be physically examined to determine fitness for
duty.

b. The employee will be advised to contact a clinic under contract to the
provider, to schedule a physical examination within a specified period of
time.

c. Upon completion of the physical examination, the clinic will forward
results to the contractor, who will then issue a medical evaluation report to
the employee's supervisor, advising on the results of the physical

 examination and whether the employee is physically capable of
performing the requirements of the job.

d. The physical examination (see 3.1, e, 1-4) will determine whether the
employee is physically able to return to, and perform the duties of his/her
job, with or without accommodation.  Based upon the results of the
physical examination, provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act
will be followed if found to be applicable.

3.3 RECORD MAINTENANCE AND RETENTION

All medical evaluation reports and correspondence regarding applicants' and
employees' physical examinations will be maintained by the hiring department in
a separate, confidential medical file.  When the employment relationship is
terminated, the employee's medical file will be forwarded to the Risk
Management Department, where it will be maintained for the period of time
specified by law.  No reports, or copies of reports, which contain the results of the
pre-appointment physical examination will be maintained in the employee's
personnel file.  The contracted provider will maintain the detailed physical
examination record.

Adopted: 2/96