213-A.1

TITLE: Public Records Requests PROCEDURE #: 213-A
DEPT: Board of Commissioners DIVISION:
EFFECTIVE DATE: 02/18 REVIEWED:  REVISED:

OBJECTIVE: To establish a county-wide procedure for responding to public records
requests.

REFERENCE: Policy #213

POLICY STATEMENT: Oregon’s Inspection of Public Records Law (ORS 192.311 to 192.478)
provides members of the public the right to inspect and copy public records
that are not otherwise exempt from disclosure. This procedure establishes a
consistent approach to handling public records requests, guides Marion
County employees on the processing of public records requests, and informs
the public of the standards that apply to public records requests. It is the
policy of Marion County to ensure that all requests for public records are
handled promptly and in conformance with Oregon public records laws.

APPLICABILITY: All Marion County departments.

DEFINITIONS:

Business Day
: A day other than Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday and on which at least one paid
employee of the County is scheduled to and does report to work.

Impracticable
: For the purposes of this policy and complying with the timelines established in this policy
and ORS 192.324 and 192.329, compliance may be deemed impracticable because:  (1) The staff or
volunteers necessary to complete a response to a public records request are unavailable; (2) Compliance
with the timelines would demonstrably impede the county’s ability to perform other necessary services; or
(3) Because of the volume of public records requests being simultaneously processed by the county.

Public records officer
: An individual who is identified in accordance with this policy to whom public
records requests may be sent.

Public records request
: A written request, a by a person or organization, to be provided access or copies of
identified public records.  A public records request does not include simple, routine requests for readily
available records that may be handled immediately.

Record: Any writing containing information relating to the conduct of the public’s business,
including but not limited to court records, mortgages, and deed records, prepared, owned, used or retained
by a public body regardless of physical form or characteristics. ORS 192.410(4)(a).  A record may be
213-A.2
handwritten, typed, photocopied, printed, microfilmed, or exist in an electronic form such as email or a
word processing document, or other types of electronic recordings. A record is a public record if it
contains information relating to the conduct of Marion County business and is prepared, owned, used or
retained by the county.

PROCEDURES:

Public Records Requests:

Written public records requests shall be responded to without unreasonable delay and in accordance with
Oregon law and Administrative Policy 213.  Public records identified in a request shall be disclosed
unless the records are confidential, privileged, or subject to an exemption. Marion County is not required
to create a record in order to respond to a public records request.

All public records requests must identify the public records requested.  Public records requests should be
submitted in writing to the appropriate department public records officer.  The public records officers to
whom public records requests may be submitted are identified in Attachment A.

1. Initial Processing of the Request:

1.1 The public records officer who receives a written public records request shall conduct an initial
assessment.
1.1.1 Simple routine requests for readily available documents may be handled
immediately. In some cases, the requester may be referred to the county website or
other resources where records are readily available.
1.1.2 Except for routine requests that have been addressed immediately, the public
records officer shall make a preliminary determination as to whether the records are
held and if possible, whether all or a portion of the contents may be subject to
exemption.  The public records officer may need to consult with their supervisor or
legal counsel.
1.1.3 If the records relate to pending claims or litigation the public records officer shall
consult with a supervisor and legal counsel shall be notified.
1.2 The public records officer shall promptly determine if the requested records are in the
department’s custody.
1.3  The public records officer should consider whether additional information or clarification is
needed from the requester in order to effectively process the request.

2. Acknowledging the Request:

2.1  Unless impracticable, the public records officer shall acknowledge receipt of the written request
to inspect or receive a copy of a public record within five business days after receiving the
request. The written acknowledgement shall:
2.1.1 Inform the requester that the department is not the custodian of the requested
record(s); or
2.1.2 Notify the requester that the department is uncertain whether it is the custodian of
the requested record(s); or
213-A.3

2.1.3 Confirm that the department is the custodian of some or all of the requested
record(s); or
2.1.4 Note that the request is unclear, ambiguous or lacks specificity and requesting
additional clarification.
2.2 If the department is custodian of at least some of the request records, and if the public
records officer has obtained sufficient information, then the public records officer may
provide an estimate of the fees that the requester must pay prior to receiving the requested
records as part of the written acknowledgement.
2.3 A written acknowledgement is not required if the public records request is completed within
five business days.

3. Responding to the Public Records Request

3.1 In order to more appropriately respond to the request, a public records officer may request
additional information or clarification from the requester. Requests for additional
information or clarification must be made in a good faith attempt to expedite the request.
3.1.1 Common examples of additional information necessary to clarify a request are:
date ranges for the request, explanation of ambiguous terms, inquire if a request for
large volume of records might be limited, or clarification about the program or
division responsible for the records being sought.
3.2   The obligation to further complete the request is suspended until the requester provides the
clarifying information.
3.3 The public records officer shall consider whether any of the requested records are exempt
from disclosure.  The public records officer may need to consult with their supervisor or
legal counsel about the applicability of exemption.
3.4 If the department has custody of requested records and no exemption will be asserted, the
public records officer shall establish an estimate of the fee to reimburse the county for the
cost of providing the records.
3.4.1 The estimate must reasonably calculate actual costs anticipated to make records
available;
3.4.2 The costs may include anticipated charges for the time spent by staff to locate the
requested public records, to review the records in order to determine if an
exemption applies, to segregate exempt records, to supervise the requester’s
inspection of original documents, to copy records, and mailing costs.
3.4.3 The estimate may include charges for photocopies of requested records.
3.4.4 The fees must be consistent with the county policy and departmental procedure, if
any.
3.5 If the estimated fee is greater than $25, the department must provide the requester with
written notice of the estimated amount of the fee prior to fulfilling the records request. The
department will not fulfill the request until the requester makes a deposit in the amount of
the estimated fee.
3.6 For requests where the fee will be significantly less than $25, the department may waive
the requirement of pre-payment of an estimated fee before performing work to make the
records available.
213-A.4

3.7 If the department will require advance payment of the estimate, the public records officer
shall inform the requester in writing of the estimated fee to recoup the county’s actual
costs.
3.8 Absent unusual circumstances, the public records officer shall perform no additional work
in responding to a public records request after the requester has been informed of the
requirement to pay an estimated fee in advance.
3.9 The requester must pay the amount owing before the requested records will be made
available.  If the deposit exceeded the actual costs, the department will provide the records
along with a refund of the difference.  If the deposit is insufficient to cover the entire costs
of completing the public records request, or the requester was not required to pay a deposit,
the amount owing must be paid by the requester before the records will be provided.

4. Deadline for Response:

 As soon as reasonably possible, but not later than fifteen (15) business days after a public records
officer has received a written public records request, the public records officer shall complete the
response to the request, or inform the requester in writing that the department is still processing the
request and provide a reasonable estimated date when its response will be complete.
4.1 The 15 business days timeframe does not apply:
4.1.1 If compliance is impracticable;
4.1.2 During the time that the county waits for a requester to provide additional
information or clarification requested by the public records officer; and
4.1.3 For those days the county waited for a requester to pay an estimated fee for the
county’s anticipated cost of making the public records available.
4.2 The public records officer will respond to the request in one or more of the following
ways:
4.2.1 Providing copies of the requested record(s) when an exemption is not claimed;
4.2.2 Informing the requester that the department does not have custody of the requested
public record(s);
4.2.3 Providing a statement that state or federal law prohibits the department from
acknowledging that the record exists and a citation to the relevant state or federal
law;
4.2.4 Providing a statement that the department is the custodian of some or all of
responsive records but that some or all of the requested record(s) are exempt from
disclosure and will not be provided, along with a citation to the exemption and a
statement that the requester may seek review of the determination by appeal
pursuant to ORS 192.407 to 192.431;  and/or
4.2.5 Providing a written statement that Marion County is still processing the request and
provide reasonable estimated date by which the county expects to complete its
response based on the information currently available.

SUBJECT: Public Records Request
213-A.5

5. Closing the Records Request

5.1 Marion County will close the records request upon the occurrence of one of the following:
  5.1.1 The records are delivered, or access is provided, to the requester;
5.1.2 The requester is notified of a claim of exemption, and any appeal period has passed
or the appeal is resolved.
5.1.3 The requester fails to pay a fee for the records within 60 days after being informed
that the fee must be paid;
5.1.4 The requester fails to respond within 60 days to a request for information or
clarification about the request.
5.2 Each Marion County department, through its public records officer(s), shall document and
track public records requests that the department has received and the manner by which
each request was closed.

6. Requests to Inspect Records

Requests to inspect public records should be processed in the same manner as outlined above.   If the
public record that the requester is seeking to inspect is only readable by machine or electronic form,
the information shall be provided in the form requested by the requester if that form is available.  If
the electronic or machine readable information cannot be provided in the format requested, then the
public records officer shall make the public record available in the form in which the public record is
maintained by Marion County.  The public records officer shall provide an estimate of the costs to
inspect public records in the same manner as described above.

7. Public Records Officers

Each department head within Marion County is responsible for: appointing one or more Public
Records Officer(s) who shall be responsible for coordinating and assisting staff in carrying out
Administrative Policy 213 and this procedure.  Each Public Records Officer within Marion County is
responsible for ensuring timely and reliable processing of public records requests as outlined herein.

8. Fee Waiver Requests

Upon receiving a request for a fee waiver, a public records officer shall consult a supervisor.  Fee
waiver requests may only be granted by the Chief Administrative Officer (CAO) or Deputy County
Administrative Officer.  If a public records officer considers granting a fee waiver request, legal
counsel should be consulted.

ATTACHMENT:

Attachment A:  Marion County Public Records Officers