1003 Policy  1
ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
SECTION: 1000 Vehicles POLICY #: 1003
TITLE: Purchasing, Registration – Title and
Disposal of County Vehicles
PROCEDURE #:
 ORDER #: 97-10
DEPT: Public Works DIVISION:
ADOPTED: 4/93 REVIEWED: 1/96 REVISED: 1/97

1. Purpose

To establish policy and procedures which govern the purchasing, registering
the title and disposal of county vehicles.

2. General Policy

Marion County retains ownership of vehicles purchased by Marion County
departments.

3. Policy Guidelines/Procedures

a. Marion County departments shall comply with the Marion County
Contract Review Board Rules and all other county policies when
purchasing vehicles.

b. Registration and title of the vehicle can be made in the name of Marion
County or the department name.  The address will be 5155 Silverton
Road NE, Salem, Oregon 97305.  Title to the vehicle will be filed with
the Fleet Maintenance Manager in Public Works.  Public Works will
forward the registration to the department. Registration will be located
in the vehicle in accordance with state law.

c. Marion County assumes the ownership of vehicles regardless of the
owner name or the name on the title.  The Director of Public Works or
designated representative shall process the registration with the
Oregon Department of Motor Vehicles.

 d. Transfer and/or disposal of vehicles will be in accordance with Marion
County Contract Review Board Rules.  The Director of Public Works or
designee is responsible for approving the fair market value of vehicles
when authorizing the transfer, trade-in and/or disposal of vehicles.
This includes but is not limited to approval or denial to use vehicles as
trade in on purchases.  Revenue from the sale of vehicles shall be
deposited in the fund surplusing the vehicle.

PURCHASING, REGISTRATION - TITLE AND DISPOSAL OF COUNTY VEHICLES

1003 Policy  2
e. The Director of Public Works or designee shall have the authority to
sign for release of title to any and all Marion County vehicles regardless
of the registration name or the name on the title.  This authority may
be delegated at the discretion of the Director of Public Works.

f. The Fleet Maintenance Manager will give General Services property
management notice of all trades, transfers and sales of vehicles.  A
copy of the trade in authorization will be forwarded to General Services
Purchasing attached to purchase order request (POR) for the new
vehicle.

g. The certificate of origin or title will be presented to Public Works to
request an equipment number prior to registering the vehicle with the
Department of Motor Vehicles.  Public Works will notify Fiscal Services
upon receipt of the registration to enter the vehicle on the fixed assets
inventory.

h. Public Works will notify Fiscal Services upon receipt of the registration.
Fiscal Services will enter the vehicle on the fixed asset inventory.

i. All legal and information notices and inquiries concerning vehicles will
be coordinated by the Fleet Maintenance Manager in Public Works.

Adopted: 4/93
Reviewed: 1/96
Revised: 1/97