1005-A.1

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES

TITLE: Parking at Marion County Facilities PROCEDURE #: 1005-A
DEPT: Business Services DIVISION: NA
EFFECTIVE DATE: 12/13 REVIEWED: 04/2024 REVISED: 05/2024

OBJECTIVE: To establish a procedure for use of parking facilities by county
elected officials, employees, volunteers, and Marion County and
State Court employees.

REFERENCE: Policy # 1005

POLICY STATEMENT: Marion County Board of Commissioners sets policies for parking of
county vehicles, employee parking and parking for Marion County and
State Court employees of Marion County.

APPLICABILITY: All elected officials, Marion County and State Court employees.
PROCEDURES:
1. Parking Facilities:
Marion County parking facilities include parking spaces that are covered, uncovered, reserved,
and unreserved. Motorcycle parking is available in all Marion County parking facilities.
Bicycle parking lockers are available in the Courthouse Square parking facility. Attachment A
lists the worksite parking facilities owned and leased by Marion County.

All department employees, contractors, and other agencies/parties permitted to park in CH and
CH Square will be required to pay a fee for parking. Paid parking spaces will be reserved.

All vehicles must safely fit within assigned spaces. If it is determined that a vehicle is too large for
the assigned space, the assignment may be rescinded, and the employee placed back on the waiting
list until another suitable space is available.

2. Parking Access:
2.1. Employees assigned a parking space in CH and CH Square have access to the parking
structure according to their assigned work status:  Regular (6am to 8pm, Monday
through Friday), Extended (5:00am to 10:00 pm, Sunday through Saturday), or Always
(24 hours per day, seven days per week).  All employee parkers must abide to Section
3 of Policy 1005, and Section 7 of Procedure 1005-A.
2.2. Employees authorized to drive county fleet vehicles parked in CH and CH Square facilities
will be granted electronic access via pool car fob to the parking facility. Electronic access
may only be used for work purposes. Employees not granted parking privileges for personal
vehicles in the CH and CH Square will not be given electronic access unless approved by
1005-A.2
MCBS.

MCBS reserves the exclusive right of placement of parkers and will make assignments to the
first eligible applicant on the waiting list.

3. Parking Assignment:
3.1. Parking in Marion County parking facilities other than CH and CH Square is available for
customers, clients, Marion County and State Court employees, fleet vehicles, and contractors,
subject to availability.  Parking in CH and CH2 will be assigned by MCBS based on
Priority of Assignment referenced in Section 4 of Policy 1005.

4. Establishment of Parking Fees:
4.1 Local Market Conditions for Downtown Salem
The State of Oregon and the City of Salem have designated Parking Districts that are adjacent to
and/or encompass the Marion County Courthouse and Courthouse Square. Both Parking
Districts have been designated by the respective agencies due to high demand for employee
parking and limited availability of long-term (day-long) parking.

Marion County employees working in offices in the Marion County Courthouse and Courthouse
Square affect the availability of parking for visitors, customers, and employees for all businesses
and public organizations operating in downtown Salem.

Monthly fees for reserved parking spaces will be established for Marion County parking
facilities within the boundaries of the City of Salem’s Downtown Parking District and adjacent
to the State of Oregon’s Capitol Mall Parking Area. The fees for state-owned and city-owned
parking facilities will be taken into consideration for establishment and review of Marion
County parking fees.
4.2. The State of Oregon has identified in the Department of Administrative Services (DAS) Oregon
Administrative Rule (OAR) Division 90 Parking Facilities, a market for Commercial Parking
available within five (5) blocks of the parking facilities in each of the cities of Salem, Portland,
and Eugene. This identification is based on ORS 276.594 giving DAS the authority to
establish rates and charges for parking motor vehicles. The state does not charge for employee
parking outside of the areas listed above.
4.3. Parking Districts:
4.3.1. State of Oregon – “Capitol Mall Parking Area” is within the City of Salem bounded
by Church Street on the west, D Street on the north, Mill Street on the south and 13th
Street on the east.
4.3.2. City of Salem – Downtown Parking District covers the area from Union Street on the
north to Trade Street on the south, to Church Street on the east and Front Street on the
west.

5. Parking Fees:
5.1. A review of parking fees in the Capitol Mall Parking District and the City of Salem
Downtown Parking District was conducted for the establishment of parking fees in the
CH and CH Square parking facilities.
5.2. Marion County Board of Commissioners set the monthly parking fees for CH and
CH Square parking facilities.
5.3. Elected officials and employees who obtain a permit for a CH or CH Square parking facility
1005-A.3
will be charged a monthly fee. The only exception is for appraisers in the Assessor’s Office as
noted in Section 5.2 of the policy.
5.4. Parking fees are charged on a twice-monthly basis and are not prorated for regular, part-
time employees.
5.5. Parking fees are collected through payroll deduction for employees twice monthly and
through a monthly journal voucher or invoice for county fleet vehicles, other agency, and
contractor vehicle assignments.
5.6. CERA pre-tax eligibility is available for employees parking in CH and CH Square facilities.
5.7. Employees are responsible for submitting a new CERA form when terminating parking at CH or
CH Square parking facilities.  Payroll deductions will continue until a request to cancel has been
received.  CERA forms submitted to terminate parking must be received 10 days prior to the next
official pay day to avoid additional charges.  CERA forms not received within this time frame are
not eligible for a refund.
5.8. Parking fees for parking facilities at CH and CH Square are listed in Attachment B.
5.9. Parking fees are charged to county departments for fleet vehicles parked in CH and CH
Square parking facilities.
5.10. Parking fees for the CH parking facility are charged to other agencies and contractors as
agreed upon by the Board of Commissioners.

6. Electric Charging Stations and Fees
6.1. CH Square has electronic charging stations available for individuals who are currently
assigned a parking space.
6.2. A rotation schedule is maintained by Business Services for available time slots for
charging.
6.3. To be placed on the schedule, Business Services must receive a formal request from the
individual wanting to be included in the rotation.
6.4. Time slots are limited, and if no available times are available at the time of the request, the
individual will be placed on a waiting list to be added to the rotation when a slot becomes
available.
6.5. Individuals and departments that use the electronic charging stations at any county parking
facilities shall be charged for charging services according to the vehicle’s battery size
outlined in Attachment B.

7. Safety and Security:
The safety and security of employees is of utmost importance.  Any report of a safety or security issue
should be reported to Risk Management. Reports will be accepted by phone, email, or in writing.
EMERGENCIES SHOULD BE REPORTED TO 911 FIRST, then to MCBS. Employees are not
expected to intervene.

The following guidelines are to be followed when parking in CH and CH Square:
7.1. The parking structures are designated no smoking areas by county ordinance.
7.2. Do not block in a vehicle that may be parked in your assigned parking. If your assigned space
has another vehicle in it, park outside of the facility and file a report with MCBS.
7.3. Only one motorized vehicle per space is allowed.
7.4. Damage to the facility should be reported immediately. A driver causing damage may be held
responsible for the damage and parking access may be terminated.
7.5. Yield right-of-way to pedestrian traffic within the parking facilities.
7.6. Obey all directional arrows, signs, traffic control devices, and other posted instructions.
1005-A.4
Cutting across parking spaces as a shortcut through the parking structure is not permitted.
7.7. Only park in designated loading zones while loading or unloading people or goods, not to
exceed 15 minutes unless otherwise posted.
7.8. Observe the maximum-posted speed limit.
7.9. Stay within your parking lines.  Double check after you park to make sure your vehicle is
inside the parking space.  Adjust if necessary.
7.10. It is the responsibility of all parkers to report any vehicle changes or additional vehicles to
MCBS to maintain accurate information for all vehicles.
7.11. All users of Marion County parking facilities must not engage in motor vehicle maintenance
and repair in parking facilities except for emergency repairs.
7.12. Parking personal vehicles in spaces designated for county fleet vehicles is not permitted.
7.13. All users of gated parking facilities shall ensure that the gate closes behind them completely
upon entry and departure of the facility for security purposes.
7.14. It is not permitted to leave a personal vehicle parked overnight without prior notification to
Business Services.  The only exception is for employees who have a permitted parking space
at CH or CH Square that are conducting county business and utilizing a county pool car for
overnight travel.

8. Parking Enforcement:
The Marion County Sheriff’s Office performs parking enforcement for the CH and CH Square
structures.  To report a complaint, contact MCBS with the following information:
location of the parking facility, the space number of complaint, and the make, model, and license plate
of the vehicle in question. MCBS will try to resolve the complaint. If needed, MCBS staff will
contact the Sheriff’s Office to conduct enforcement of the Marion County Parking Code.

ATTACHMENTS:

Reviewed:  04/24
Revised: 05/24

Attachment A – Parking Facilities
Attachment B – Parking Fees

1005-A.5
Attachment A

Parking Facilities

Facility Number of Parking
Spaces
Monitored/Gated Reserved/Non-
Reserved
Courthouse 192 Monitored –
Part - Covered, Part -
Uncovered
Reserved/Permitted
Courthouse Square 314 Gated - Covered Reserved
59 – Transit
253 – Marion Co.
2 – motorcycle
Public Works - Silverton Road 302 Uncovered First come, first
serve for employee
vehicles. County
vehicles are assigned
65 parking spots
Juvenile Department – Center St. 285 Uncovered 86 reserved and
employee
Community Services – Dog
Shelter
25 Uncovered 3 parking spots assigned
for county vehicles
Health Department – Center St. 337 Uncovered Some reserved
Silverton Rd 167 Leased - Uncovered Some reserved
Beverly Ave. NE 37 Leased - Uncovered Reserved
Woodburn 18 Leased - Uncovered Secured Parking
Area
Wolverine 22 Uncovered Fenced area for
county vehicles and
employee parking
Wolverine 29 Uncovered Open parking
Sheriff’s Office – Brooks 15 Uncovered Open Parking Lot
Sheriff’s Office – Aumsville Hwy.
- PSB
372 Uncovered Open Parking Lot
Behavioral Health Crisis Center 54 Uncovered First come, first serve.
County vehicles are
assigned 10 parking
spaces.
1005-A.6

Attachment B

Parking Fees in Downtown
Salem

Facility Number of
Parking Spaces
Monitored/Gated Monthly Fee
Courthouse 192 Monitored for permit
parking in front ground
level area and gated for
remainder of parking
facility
$55.00
Courthouse
Square
313 – Regular

2 – Electric
Vehicle
Gated $55.00
$15.00 - locker key deposit
(one time only charge)

Additional Charging Fee
$ 5.00 – Small (0-35 kWh)
$ 7.50 – Mid (36-70 kWh)
$10.00 – Full (71 kWh & up)
$20.00 – Wall plug in (all day)