easy | Marion County
 ry               OREGON
                                                                      ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES

 TITLE:      Americans with Disabilities Act                            PROCEDURE     #:   304-A
                                                                        DIVISION/
 DE PT:      Human R Resources                                          PROGRAM:           Human   Resources

 EFFECTIVE       DATE:     2/09              REVIEWED:       05/22       REVISED:          05/22

OBJECTIVE:                            To establish procedures for employees to request an accommodation under
                                      the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and the Americans with
                                      Disabilities Amendments Act (ADAA) (28 CFR Part 35 & 36)

REFERENCE:                            Policy # 304

POLICY STATEMENT:                     These procedures are adopted to implement Marion County Administrative
                                      Policy 304, Americans with Disabilities Act for Marion County employees.

APPLICABILITY:                        All county employees

PROCEDURES:

1.        Introduction:

          The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). The ADA and ADAA requires state and local
          government employers to take specific steps to ensure that individuals with disabilities do not
          experience discrimination in employment practices. Employment practices include job application
          procedures, hiring, firing, advancement, compensation, training and other terms, conditions, and
          privileges of employment.

2.        Definitions:

          2.1.    Disability
                  2.1.1. A physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life
                           activities; or,

                  2.1.2.   A record of a physical or mental impairment that substantially limited a major life
                           activity; or,

                  2.1.3.   When a covered entity takes an action prohibited by the ADAA because of an
                           actual or perceived impairment that is not both transitory and minor.

          2.2.    Essential       Job Function
                  Functions of a position are considered essential if:
                  2.2.1. The position exists to perform the function; or,

                                                         304-A.1
SUBJECT:    AMERICANS        WITH DISABILITIES ACT

             2.2.2.   There are a limited number of other employees available to perform the function or
                      among whom the function can be distributed; or

             2.2.3.   A function is highly specialized and the person in the position is hired for his/her
                      expertise or ability to perform the function.

     2.3     Reasonable accommodation
             Modification or adjustment to a job or the work environment that will enable a qualified
             applicant or employee with a disability to participate in the application process or to
             perform essential job functions.

     2.4     Undue hardship
             An action that requires significant difficulty or expense, considered in light of the effect on
             expenses and resources or the impact of such accommodation upon the business operation.

3,   Interactive Process:

     3.1.    The interactive process is defined as a process in which the covered individual and the
             employer determine the precise limitations created by the disability and how best to
             respond to the need for accommodation.
     3.2.    The county, as the employer, will engage in an interactive process when a need is
             identified, or accommodation requested. An employee who believes a disability prevents
             or hampers their ability to perform an essential function of their position must complete the
             Marion County Reasonable Accommodation Request forms. These forms may be obtained
             from their supervisor, Marion County Human Resources, or on the county intranet web
             page.

     3.36    The county may require the employee to obtain a statement from the employee’s
             healthcare provider to certify that the employee has a covered disability for which the
             employee need a reasonable accommodation. The employee must take a copy of their
             Essential Job Functions and an Interactive Process Questionnaire to their medical provider
             for completion. The employee must submit the completed documentation to Marion
             County Human Resources.

     3.4.    Request for accommodation shall be reviewed by the Marion County ADA Committee.
             The committee will evaluate requests for accommodation, seek additional information or
             documents as necessary to make recommendations as part of the interactive process, and
             approve appropriate reasonable accommodations.

     3.5.    Marion County Human Resources will provide the employee with written determination
             regarding the accommodation request and what, if any, accommodation will be provided.

     3.6.    The employee may contact HR tore-engage in the interactive process, to address any
             concerns about the proposed accommodation, for reconsideration of the accommodation
             decision or to provide additional information in support of the request.

                                                 304-A.2
SUBJECT:   AMERICANS     WITH   DISABILITIES ACT

     Adopted:    02/09

     Revised:    11/11
                05/22

                                        304-A.3