102.1
ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
SECTION: General Provisions POLICY #: 102
TITLE: Establish New, Amend or Rescind County Policies PROCEDURE #: 102-A
  ORDER #: 12-49
DEPT: Board of Commissioners’ Office DIVISION:
ADOPTED: 4/84 as Policy 101 REVIEWED:  REVISED: 5/12

PURPOSE: The Marion County Board of Commissioners establishes administrative
policies to align operations, set expectations across all county departments
and operations, ensure compliance with appropriate state and federal laws
and regulations, and communicate policy roles and responsibilities.

 This policy is established to provide a process by which new administrative
policies and procedures are created, and existing policies and procedures are
amended or rescinded.

AUTHORITY: The Marion County Board of Commissioners may establish rules and
regulations in reference to managing the interest and business of the county
under ORS 203.010, 203.035, 203.111, 203.230.

The Marion County Board of Commissioners expresses the governing
body’s formal, organizational position of fundamental principles and
alignment of operations through formally adopted, written policy
 statements.  The policy statements serve to provide rules for public officials
on the conduct of county business.

The Marion County Administrative Policies and Procedures Manual
outlines the forms and processes through which the board takes official
action on administrative policy, and is the official record of county
administrative policy.

APPLICABILITY: All county departments and employees

GENERAL POLICY: Administrative policies set the rules for operations for Marion County
governance.  Policies address specific expectations and consequences.
Administrative procedures specify how the policies will be implemented
and who is responsible for policy implementation.

 County policies are subject to change periodically.  It shall be the policy of
the Board of Commissioners to amend, revise or rescind policies in this
manual as needed.

SUBJECT:  ESTABLISH NEW, AMEND OR RESCIND COUNTY POLICIES

102.2
POLICY GUIDELINES:

1. Responsibilities:

1.1 The Board of Commissioners’ Office has the responsibility for the coordination of all
county policies.

1.2 All policies must have a sponsoring department.  The sponsoring department is responsible
for implementation of policy and assuring compliance by county departments.

1.3 When a new policy is required, or additions or changes to an existing policy and/or
procedure become necessary, the sponsoring department shall submit a draft of the new or
revised policy and procedures to the Board of Commissioners’ Office.

1.4 The board’s office shall coordinate the review of all new and revised policies and
procedures and prepare the documentation for final review by the Board of
Commissioners.

1.5 Administrative policies will be approved by board order.

1.6 Policy implementation procedures will be written separately from the general policy and
do not require adoption by the Board of Commissioners.

1.7 When a policy becomes obsolete, the sponsoring department will submit a draft order
rescinding the policy and procedure and submit to the Board of Commissioners’ Office.

1.8 The Board of Commissioners’ Office will be responsible for distribution of the adopted,
revised and/or rescinded policy and procedures.

2. Exceptions:

Exceptions may only be granted by the Marion County Board of Commissioners.

3. Implementation:

The Board of Commissioners’ Office has the authority and responsibility to implement this policy
and assure compliance by county departments.

4. Periodic Review:

4.1 Sponsoring departments are responsible to review policies and procedures at least every
three years for any necessary revisions.  Revisions are submitted following the guidelines
of this policy and procedure.
SUBJECT:  ESTABLISH NEW, AMEND OR RESCIND COUNTY POLICIES

102.3

4.2 The Board of Commissioners’ Office will monitor the review of all county policies on a
three-year revolving schedule and support the review process with the sponsoring
department.

4.3 This policy shall be reviewed by the Board of Commissioners’ Office at least every three
years, or more often if needed, and updated as necessary.

Adopted as Policy 101:  4/84

Revised    3/07

Rescinded   5/12

Approved as Policy 102: 5/12