702.1
ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES

SECTION: Information Technology POLICY #: 702
TITLE: PROCEDURE #: 702-A

Geographic Information System (GIS) Database
Administration
ORDER #: 08-148
DEPT: Information Technology DIVISION:
ADOPTED: 8/02 REVIEWED: 10/08 REVISED: 10/08

PURPOSE: To establish a policy that dictates how geographic information system (GIS)
data is distributed.

AUTHORITY: The Marion County Board of Commissioners may establish rules and
regulations in reference to managing the interest and business of the county
under ORS 203.010, 203.035 and 203.111.

The Marion County Board of Commissioners expresses the governing
body’s formal, organizational position of fundamental issues or specific
repetitive situations through formally adopted, written policy statements.
The policy statements serve as guides to decision making for both elected
and appointed officials on the conduct of county business.

The Marion County Administrative Policies and Procedures manual of the
Board of Commissioners outlines the forms and process through which the
board takes official action on administrative policy, and is the official
record of county administrative policy.

APPLICABILITY: All Marion County departments and employees.

GENERAL POLICY: Marion County has the tec hnology and resources to combine database
components created and maintained by various departments into an
integrated GIS database.  The county will develop and maintain an
integrated GIS database to improve its own operations, improve its ability
to share information with other public entities, and to provide the public
with better access to public records.

POLICY GUIDELINES:

1. Responsibilities:

1.1 The information technology (IT) director is responsible for coordination and development
of the GIS database.

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SYSTEM (GIS) DATABASE ADMINISTRATION
1.2 The Marion County Board of Commissioners must  approve GIS database policies.  The IT
director will present recommendations on policies and changes to policy to the board of
commissioners.

2. Exceptions:

GIS data deemed confidential by identity theft (SB583) or HIPPA laws will not be distributed to
the general public without approval granted by the Marion County Board of Commissioners.

3. Implementation:

3.1 Access to county GIS data will be open to the public at large via an Internet website with
the exception of data deemed confidential as described in section 2.  There will be no
charge for access to this site.  Any cost incurred by the county to provide other access to
this data or assistance using this data will be at the expense of the entity requesting access.

3.2 The county will prepare and place a disclaimer on the Internet website described in 3.1 that
users must accept before access to Marion County GIS data is granted.

4. Periodic Review:

The IT director shall review this administrative policy and the statements prepared in support of
this policy at least every two (2) years, and make recommendations on revisions to the Marion
County Board of Commissioners.

702.2