neni Marten County ORT   G0
                                                                           ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES

     TITLE:     Appointments to Advisory Boards                        PROCEDURE #:               203-A

     DEPT:     Board of Commissioners’ Office                          PROGRAM:                  Volunteer Services

     EFFECTIVE DATE:           11/06     | REVIEWED:                   REVISED:                   12/22

OBJECTIVE:                             To establish procedures for appointments to advisory boards and Multi-
                                       Jurisdictional Committees.

REFERENCE:                             Policy # 203

POLICY STATEMENT:                      This policy establishes the parameters for board appointments to state-
                                       mandated and/or county-developed advisory boards and Multi-
                                       Jurisdictional Committees.

APPLICABILITY:                         All county department heads, advisory boards, and county staff responsible
                                       for support to advisory boards.

PROCEDURES:

The Marion County Volunteer Services Coordinator is responsible for managing the volunteer application
and training process for county advisory boards. For assistance with advisory boards, information on the
application process, training, or other processes outlined in this policy and procedure, contact:

Volunteer Services Coordinator:               volunteer(@co.marion.or.us
                                              (503) 588-7990

1.     Advisory Board Rosters and Application

       1.1. The county Volunteer Services Coordinator (VSC) maintains a centralized roster of advisory
            board members, initial appointments, reappointments and term expiration dates.
       1.2. Each department head or designee must maintain a current list of members of advisory boards
              and term expiration dates related to advisory boards within their department.
       1.3. Advisory board application forms shall be available in the Human Resources Department and on
              the Marion County Volunteer Opportunities webpage. http://Awww.co.marion.or.us/HR/VOL.
              1.3.1. The VSC or Advisory Board (AB) staff may develop and utilize supplemental
                    questionnaires.

2.     Vacancy

       2.1. AB staff must inform the VSC of any vacancy that has occurred or is expected to occur, not less
            than one month before the expected vacancy to allow time for posting and recruitment.
       2.2. In situations where a vacancy occurs unexpectedly, AB staff will inform the VSC immediately.

                                                          203-A.1
SUBJECT:      APPOINTMENTS          TO ADVISORY BOARDS

     2.3. The VSC and AB staff, in consultation with the Board of Commissioners, will work together to
          determine the best recruitment strategy.
     2.4. When a vacancy occurs on an advisory board, the VSC will notify the Board of Commissioners,
          provide an information notice on the vacancy to the media, and post the vacancy notice on the
          county’s website.
          2.4.1. Interested groups may also be advised of the vacancy.
          2.4.2. When appropriate, the vacancy notice will be posted on Marion County social media
                accounts.

3.   Review of Applications

     3.1. Department heads or designees, and advisory board members will conduct a review of
         applications received for vacant advisory board positions, as per their bylaws.
     3.2. Advisory boards shall follow the process outlined in their bylaws for making appointment
         recommendations to the Board of Commissioners.
     5.5) Recommendations for appointment must be reviewed by the Board of Commissioners at a
         regularly scheduled Management Update meeting. Upon approval by the Board of
         Commissioners, the VSC or AB staff will coordinate the request for formal action at Board
         Session.
     3.4. The VSC will notify the Board Clerk when an applicant is approved for appointment.
     3.5. The following information will be provided at Management Update:
          3.5.1. Summary of the recruitment strategy.
         3.5.2. Governing documents for the advisory board, including bylaws and any other information
                that is specific to membership requirements.
         3.5.3. The Advisory Board’s process for recommending or selecting members.
         3.5.4. Advisory Board roster that includes detailed information about existing members’ roles,
                represented positions, current terms, and length of service.
         3.5.5. List of any applicants not recommended for appointment.
         3.5.6. Page 2 of the advisory board application for all applicants (those being recommended, and
                those not being recommended).

     Appointment/Reappointment     by Order of the Board

     4.1. All appointments and reappointments to advisory boards will be made by board order.
     4.2. VSC or AB staff will submit a draft board order to the Legal Department for review prior to
          submitting Board Session paperwork.
     4.3. Page 2 of each application and a full roster of members of the advisory board to which a member
         is being appointed or re-appointed will accompany the board order.
         4.3.1. The board roster will include the members’ city or area of residence and/or work
                addresses, and information on represented positions.
     4.4. When a new appointment is made to fill a vacancy for an unexpired term, the new appointment
          will be for the remainder of the unexpired term.
     4.5. AB staff is responsible for presenting appointees to the Board of Commissioners for approval.
          With advance notice, the VSC may present recommendations on behalf of the AB staff.
     4.6. AB staff will ensure appointees are invited to attend the board session where their appointment is
          considered for approval. Appointments should be scheduled as Consent items if appointee will

                                                   203-A.2
SUBJECT:            APPOINTMENTS      TO ADVISORY        BOARDS

            not attend board session; if appointee will attend, then the item should be scheduled as an Action
            item.
     4.7. The Board Clerk shall send a copy of the signed appointment order to the appropriate department
          head or designee, and the VSC.
          4.7.1. A copy of the board order will be retained by the VSC.
     4.8. Following the board session at which an appointment is made, the VSC shall send a notification
            to the individual informing him or her of the appointment. Notification will include:
            4.8.1. A copy of the order of appointment.
            4.8.2. Instructions for completing the county’s New Volunteer Orientation (NVO).
            4.8.3. A copy of Marion County’s Handbook for Advisory Board Members, which includes “A
                   Quick Reference Guide to Oregon’s Public Meeting Law”.
          4.8.4. Link for the Advisory Board Orientation video module.
     4.9. A  press release may be prepared by the Board of Commissioners’ staff and distributed to the
            media announcing the appointment.

     Orientation and Training

     5.1. VSC will ensure that all appointees receive the county’s New Volunteer Orientation upon
            appointment.
          5.1.1. New Volunteer Orientation will include information on county policies and procedures,
                  state laws regarding meetings, ethics, public records, and other information relevant to the
                  appropriate and effective conduct of advisory board meetings and business.
          5.1.2. Appointees may be asked to complete NVO again if there are material changes to the
                  orientation content.
     5.2. The department head or designee providing staff support to the advisory board will ensure that
          each appointee receives orientation and training specific to the board on which they serve,
          including other pertinent policies and procedures concerning the service they may render. This
          includes copies of the advisory board bylaws, state laws relating to advisory board’s work,
          specifics around public meetings and public records.

     Expiration      of Term

     6.1.     The chair of an advisory board or the department head of the represented department or their
              designee will contact an advisory board member whose term is due to expire to determine
              whether they are willing to accept reappointment to the position.
     6.2.     If a member is interested in reappointment, the department head or designee shall contact the
              VSC to initiate the process as outlined in Section 4. Appointment/Reappointment by Order of
              the Board.
     6.3.     If a member is not interested in reappointment, the department head or designee shall follow the
              process outlined in Section 2. Vacancy.

7.   Resignation

     7.1.    A member of an advisory board shal! submit their resignation in writing to the chair of the
             advisory board on which they serve.

                                                     203-A.3
SUBJECT:        APPOINTMENTS TO ADVISORY BOARDS

     7.2.   The chair will forward a copy of the resignation to the department head.
     7.3.   The department head or designee will forward a copy of the resignation to the VSC, who will
            notify the Board of Commissioners.

8.   Release from Service

     8.1.   All advisory board members serve at the pleasure of the Board of Commissioners. The Board of
            Commissioners may remove a board member on its own motion or upon recommendation of the
            advisory board when it determines it is in the best interests of the advisory board or the county to
            do so.

     8.2.   Should it become evident to the chair, vice chair, or staff of any advisory board that a member of
            the committee has not attended meetings as necessary or failed to perform such other reasonable
            functions as required by the bylaws or requested by the chair/vice chair or staff, this fact shall be
            brought to the attention of the Board of Commissioners. The advisory board shall also include a
            recommendation as to whether the member’s term of appointment should be terminated.

                                                      203-A.4