523-A.1
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES

TITLE: Work Crew Injury Coverage PROCEDURE #: 523-A
DEPT: Business Services DIVISION: Risk Management
EFFECTIVE DATE: 5/08 REVIEWED: 10/22 REVISED: 10/22

OBJECTIVE: To establish procedures to guide the dep artments and work crewmembers in
reporting accidental injuries and making claims und er the work crew injury
coverage.

REFERENCE: Policy #523

POLICY STATEMENT: Marion County may provide acciden tal injury coverage to individuals who
are members of work crews that are under the direct  supervision of Marion
County employees.

APPLICABILITY: Work crew injury coverage applies to :

1.  Juveniles working in Juvenile Department Alternative Programs.
2.  Adult corrections restitution clients under the dir ect supervision of
county employees, including work release and forest crew

PROCEDURES:

1. Coverage:

a. Work crews are covered under the purchased accid ental injury policy in place at the time
of injury.

b. Work crewmembers must be under the direct superv ision of Marion County employees at
the time of injury to qualify for the benefits of the policy coverage.

c. Marion County Risk Management will coordinate or  file claims on behalf of injured work
crewmembers.

d. Marion County Risk Management will be responsibl e for the purchase of the accidental
injury policy.

e. Marion County Risk Management will be responsibl e for allocating the cost of the policy
back to the departments.

SUBJECT:  WORK CREW INJURY COVERAGE

523-A.2
2. Reporting Incidents:

All work crewmember injuries must be reported no la ter than the next business day to risk man-
agement on the Marion County  Occupational Injury Report form.  Both the supervisor and the
injured work crewmember must sign the form.  The in jured work crewmember must cooperate
with Marion County in providing information regarding his or her injury.

3. Claim Filing:

a. Work crewmembers who suffer non-life-threatening  injuries should be taken to the follow-
ing clinic, or the nearest immediate care or occupational medicine clinic:

Salem Occupational Health Clinic
2168 Lancaster Drive NE
Salem, OR 97305
Phone: 503-362-5242

b.  Serious or life-threatening injuries should be dire cted to the nearest hospital emergency
room.

c.  The injured work crewmember shall fill out and sign  page 1 of the Marion County
Occupational Injury Report  and section B of the Marion County Special Risk Accident and
Sickness Claim  form.  This form shall be submitted to risk manage ment when the injured
work crewmember receives treatment from a medical provider for an on-the-job injury.

Revised:  10/22 – BS: TG