208.1
ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES

SECTION: General Administration POLICY #: 208

TITLE:

Role of Marion County in Relation to Immigration Customs
Enforcement (ICE)
PROCEDURE #: N/A
 ORDER #: 14-49
DEPT: Board of Commissioners DIVISION: N/A
ADOPTED: 6/97 REVIEWED:  REVISED:      6/14

PURPOSE: This policy clarifies the communication and enforcement relationship
between Marion County (County) and Immigration Customs Enforcement
(ICE).

AUTHORITY: The Marion County Board of Commissioners may establish rules and
regulations in reference to managing the interest and business of the county
under ORS 203.010, 203.035, 203.111, and 203.230.

The Marion County Board of Commissioners expresses the governing
body’s formal, organizational position of fundamental issues or specific
repetitive situations through formally adopted, written policy statements.
The policy statements serve as guides to decision making for both elected
and appointed officials on the conduct of county business.

The Administrative Policies and Procedures Manual of the Board of
Commissioners outlines the forms and process through which the board
takes official action on administrative policy, and is the official record of
county administrative policy.

APPLICABILITY: All county departments and employees

GENERAL POLICY: Immigration Customs Enforcement (ICE) has the legal authority to enforce
immigration laws in the United States, in Oregon, and in Marion County.
Marion County does not operate its programs for the sole or primary
purpose of enforcing federal immigration laws.  However, Marion County
works cooperatively with all federal, state, and local government entities to
ensure that specific laws, rules, and regulations are identified and upheld by
each respective agency.

POLICY: This will be the sole policy of Marion County regarding communication and
enforcement policy between Marion County and ICE.

SUBJECT: ROLE OF MARION COUNTY IN RELATION TO IMMIGRATION CUSTOMS
ENFORCEMENT (ICE)
208.2
1. County Services:

1.1. County employees and representatives carry out their regular duties solely for the purpose
of administering county services and programs.
1.2. County employees and representatives will follow general county, state, and federal
guidelines to assess clients’ eligibility for services.  County employees and representatives
will not discriminate against any current or potential clients in terms of race, color, or
national origin.  County employees and representatives will not seek information about
clients’ race, color, or national origin unless that information is required by the program
the employees and representatives administer.
1.3. While county employees and representatives will cooperate with ICE as any other
governmental entity, county employees and representatives will not administer their
programs for the purpose of enforcing immigration laws.
1.4. County Law Enforcement/Criminal Justice Systems
1.4.1. County law enforcement entities, including but not limited to the Sheriff’s Office
and the Juvenile Department, will not use their resources and personnel to detect or
apprehend persons solely for violation of immigration laws.
1.4.2. The county jail will follow OR 169.530 in detaining persons committed to the jail
      under civil or criminal process issued by the federal court. ORS 169.530 states the
      following: “The sheriff shall receive and keep in the county local correctional
      facility every prisoner who is committed thereto under civil or criminal process
      issued by a court of the United States.” The Marion County Sheriff’s Office will
      detain persons for ICE upon receipt of a warrant or other order signed by a federal
      magistrate.
1.5. Willful violation of this policy shall be subject to disciplinary action under the Marion
County Personnel Rules or appropriate union contract.

Adopted: 6/97
Reviewed:       8/10
Revised:          6/14