704.1
ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES

SECTION: Information Technology POLICY #: 704
TITLE: Social Media Use Policy PROCEDURE #: 704-A
 ORDER #: 15-26
DEPT: Information Technology DIVISION:
ADOPTED: 6/11 REVIEWED: 3/15 REVISED: 3/15

PURPOSE: To address the fast-changing landscape of the Internet and the way residents
communicate and obtain information online, county departments may consider
using social media platforms to reach a broader audience. The county encourages
the use of social media to further the goals of the county and the missions of its
departments, where appropriate.

AUTHORITY: The Marion County Board of Commissioners may establish rules and regulations
in reference to managing the interest and business of the county under ORS
203.010, 203.035 and 203.111.

The Marion County Board of Commissioners expresses the governing body’s
formal, organizational position of fundamental issues or specific repetitive
situations through formally adopted, written policy statements.  The policy
statements serve as guides to decision making for both elected and appointed
officials on the conduct of county business.

The Marion County Administrative Policies and Procedures manual of the
Marion County Board of Commissioners outlines the forms and process through
which the board takes official action on administrative policy, and is the official
record of county administrative policy.
Statutory References: Oregon Revised Statutes Chapters 192, 205, and 357;
Oregon Administrative Rules Chapter 166.

APPLICABILITY: All county departments, employees, contractors, and volunteers.

GENERAL POLICY: The county has an overriding interest and expectation in deciding what is
"spoken" on behalf of the county on social media.  This policy establishes
guidelines for the use of social media platforms.

POLICY GUIDELINES:

1.   General

1.1. The county’s website (www.co.marion.or.us) will remain the county's primary and
predominant Internet presence.

1.1.1.  County social media accounts are to be used for the following purposes:

704.2
ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES

1.1.1.1.  As channels for disseminating time-sensitive information as quickly as
    possible (example: emergency information); and

1.1.1.2. As marketing/promotional channels that increase the county's ability to
     broadcast its messages to the widest possible audience.

1.1.2.  County social media accounts and the official county website should work cooperatively
to convey information to the public about county programs and services.  Whenever
practicable, content posted on county social media accounts shall contain links directing
users back to the county’s official website for in-depth information, forms, documents or
online services necessary to conduct business with the county.

1.2 The department head of each department that operates social media accounts is ultimately
responsible for any content posted on social media accounts operated by that department.

1.2.1. The department head, or a designee, must be assigned administrator privileges for the
purpose of accessing social media accounts operated by that department.

 1.2.2 If the head of  a county department appoints a designee to oversee that department’s
  social media accounts, that department head remains ultimately responsible for all
  content appearing on that social media account.

1.3  All county social media content, including comments from members of the public and other
content provided by persons not employed by the county, shall comply with the moderation
guidelines adopted by the county.

1.4.  All county social media content shall comply with all appropriate county policies and
standards including but not limited to Administrative Policy 701: Use of Telephones, Computer
and Data Communications Equipment, E-Mail and Internet.

1.5. In general, county social media accounts shall be maintained and operated by county employees.
Exceptions may be granted when good cause exists to allow contractors or volunteers to operate
county social media accounts.

1.6. County social media content shall comply with county and state ethics and elections codes
and administrative rules.

1.7. County social media content, including comments and other content provided by members of the
public, is subject to State of Oregon public records laws.  Any content maintained in a social
media format that is related to county business, including but not limited to lists of subscribers
and posted communication, is a public record.  Each department that operates social media
accounts is responsible for responding completely and accurately to any public records request
for public records on social media.  Content related to county business shall be maintained in an
accessible format independent of the social media platform so that it can be produced in response
to a request.

1.8. Oregon state law and relevant county records retention schedules apply to social media

704.3
ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
content.  All departments that make use of social media platforms shall preserve records required
to be maintained.  The records retention shall be pursuant to a relevant records retention schedule
for the required retention period in a format that preserves the integrity of the original record and
is easily accessible.  All materials posted on a social media platform, including comments and
other content provided by persons not employed by the county, will also be retained in another
medium.

1.9.  The county will approach the use of social media tools, including design standards, as
consistently as possible, enterprise-wide.

2. Exceptions:

Any exceptions will be approved by the chief administrative officer or designee and subject to review by
the Information Technology Director.

3. Violations:

The proper use of social media enhances communication with the public.  It is the responsibility of county
public officials to use this form of communication properly.  Violation of the policies or procedures set
forth in this policy may result in removal of department content from social media accounts.  Violations
may also be grounds for disciplinary action up to and including termination of county employment.

4. Periodic Review:

This policy will be reviewed by the Information Technology Director and County Legal Counsel every
two years and updated as needed.