902.1
ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES

SECTION: Purchasing POLICY #: 902
TITLE: Memberships, Dues, and Subscriptions
PROCEDURE #: 902-A
ORDER #: 20-012
DEPT: Board of Commissioners’ Office DIVISION: N/A
ADOPTED: 4/84 REVIEWED:  REVISED: 2/20

PURPOSE: The purpose of this policy is to establish guidelines for the purchasing of
memberships and dues in professional and business organizations, as well
as the purchasing of subscriptions to professional journals, magazines, local
newspapers, and information services.

AUTHORITY: The Marion County Board of Commissioners may establish rules and
regulations in reference to managing the interest and business of the county
under ORS 203.010, 203.035, 203.111, 203.230.

The Marion County Board of Commissioners expresses the governing
body’s official, organizational position on fundamental issues or specific
repetitive situations through formally adopted, written policy statements.
Policy statements serve to provide rules for public officials on the conduct
of county business.

Marion County Administrative Policies and Procedures outline the methods
through which the Board of Commissioners takes formal action on
administrative policy. They are the official record of county administrative
policy.

APPLICABILITY: All Marion County departments and employees.

GENERAL POLICY: Memberships and dues for professional and business organizations and
    associations, and subscriptions to periodicals and news information sources
    align with the professionalism of staff and operations. Marion County
    encourages public officials’ participation in civic and service organizations
    to maintain a connection with the community.

POLICY GUIDELINES:

1. RESPONSIBILITIES

1.1. Department heads, elected officials or their assigned designees may authorize department
memberships (i.e., local, state and national professional organizations) and subscriptions (i.e.,
SUBJECT: MEMBERSHIPS, DUES, AND SUBSCRIPTIONS

902.2
to periodicals, newsletters, newspapers, and on-line professional and document services) based
on the function of the department and the need to fulfill official duties.

1.2. Marion County may pay public officials’ memberships, dues, or subscriptions only for
professional and business organizations.

1.3. Employees must have prior written approval from their appointed department head, elected
official, or assigned designee for: purchase of professional memberships; agreements for dues to
a professional association; and/or, purchase of subscriptions made with county funds.

1.4. Marion County will not pay for the memberships, dues or subscriptions for civic and service
organizations. Examples of civic and service organizations include but are not limited to:
fraternal lodges, Kiwanis International, Lions Club, civic leagues, Rotary International,
Soroptimist International, and Exchange Clubs.

1.5. Violation of this policy may result in discipline up to and including termination of employment,
subject to any applicable collective bargaining agreements.

2. IMPLEMENTATION

Elected officials, department heads, managers, and supervisors are expected to be knowledgeable of
and shall be responsible for implementing this policy in their respective departments.

3. EXCEPTIONS

There are no exceptions to this policy.

4. PERIODIC REVIEW

This policy shall be reviewed by the Board of Commissioners Office every three years or more often
if necessary, and updated as needed.

Adopted: 04/84

Revised: 10/84