202.1
ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES

SECTION: General Administ ration POLICY #: 202
TITLE: PROCEDURE #: 202-A

Public Records Management
ORDER #: 09-98
DEPT: County Clerk’s Office DIVISION:
ADOPTED: 04/84 REVIEWED: 2/09 REVISED: 10/09

PURPOSE: To establish an integrated a pproach by Marion County for managing public
records from their creation to their ultimate disposition.

AUTHORITY: The Marion County Board of Co mmissioners may establish rules and
regulations in reference to managing the interest and business of the county
under ORS 203.010, 203.035 and 203.111.

The Marion County Board of Commissioners expresses the governing
body’s formal, organizational position on fundamental issues or specific
repetitive situations through formally adopted, written policy statements.
The policy statements serve as guides to decision making for both elected
and appointed officials on the conduct of county business.

The Marion County Administrative Policies and Procedures manual of the
board of Commissioners outlines the forms and process through which the
board takes official action on administrative policy, and is the official
record of county administrative policy.

Statutory References
:  Oregon Revised Statutes chapters 192, 205 and 357;
Oregon Administrative Rules chapter 166.

APPLICABILITY: All public officials, includ ing county officers, employees or agents.

GENERAL POLICY:

1. All Marion County public officials have the legal responsibility to manage and protect public records
and, except as expressly exempted from disclosure by statute, to furnish reasonable opportunities for
inspection and examination of public records by any person.

2. A public record contains information relating to the conduct of the public’s business and prepared,
owned, used or retained by a public body, regardless of the physical form or characteristics, including:

2.1. Any writing:  meaning any handwriting, typewriting, printing, or photographing.

SUBJECT:  PUBLIC RECORDS MANAGEMENT

202.2
2.2. Every means of recording, including letters, words, pictures, sounds, or symbols or
combination thereof.
2.3. All documents, books, papers, maps, files, facsimiles, sound recordings or electronic
records.

2.4. Public records do not include: extra copies of a document, a stock of publications,
messages on voice mail or on other telephone message storage and retrieval systems.

3. The county clerk is the public records officer for Marion County.  Each department shall designate a
departmental records officer who will serve as liaison regarding records between the department and
the county clerk.

4. The county clerk shall give advice or assistance to other county departments on records and
information management matters, including assistance in establishing minimum retention periods for
department records and appropriate disposal or destruction methods.

5. The county clerk will maintain a county archives and records center.  The county clerk shall establish
rules, standards and procedures regarding the storage of records in the archives.

6. The county clerk may refuse to accept records that have already reached their minimum retention
period for storage and maintenance in the county archives.  Departments may continue to store the
records at the department; however, the records should be properly destroyed or disposed of once the
minimum retention period has expired.

7. Legal custody of department records stored in the county archives remains with the department.

8. The county clerk may destroy archived records using any appropriate method following the expiration
of the retention period designated by the department.

POLICY GUIDELINES:

1. Responsibilities:
  All Marion County public officials are responsible for compliance with this
policy.

2. Implementation:
  All Marion County departments will adhere to the policy and procedures.

3. Periodic Review:
  Review of this policy shall be conducted biannually to ensure compliance with
any legal changes that may occur.