493.1
ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES

SECTION: Financial Management POLICY #: 493
TITLE: PROCEDURE #: 493-A

Merchant Cards
ORDER #: 13-66
DEPT: Treasurer’s Office DIVISION: N/A
ADOPTED: 2/11 REVIEWED:  REVISED: 6/13

PURPOSE: This establishes policy for receiving and processing merchant card
transactions and complying with security requirements set forth by the
Payment Card Industry.

AUTHORITY: The Marion County Board of Commissioners may establish rules and
regulations in reference to managing the interest and business of the county
under ORS 203.010, 203.035, 203.111, and 203.230.

APPLICABILITY: Elected officials, department heads, managers, supervisors, and employees
who process, transmit, handle, or store cardholder payment information in
any physical or electronic format.

GENERAL POLICY: Ensure county employees protect cardholder information against theft and/or
improper usage, comply with all credit and banking industry security
regulations related to payment card processing and reporting, and maintain
proper financial controls in the receipt and processing of payment card
transactions.

POLICY GUIDELINES:

1.  Definitions:

1.1  Acquirer:  a bankcard association member that initiates and maintains relationships with
merchants that accept Visa, MasterCard, or Discover cards.  Also referred to as “acquiring
bank” or “acquiring financial institution”.
1.2  Breach: an incident in which sensitive, protected or confidential data has potentially been
viewed, stolen or used by an unauthorized individual.
1.3  Cardholder Information: any personally identifiable data associated with a cardholder.
Examples include but are not limited to: account number, expiration date, card type, name,
address, social security number, service code, and card validation code.
1.4  Merchant: the Marion County department that accepts merchant cards for goods or services
provided.
1.5  Merchant Card: see Payment Card (also called Branded Card, Credit Card, Debit Card, and
Payment Card). Those cards used to pay for goods or services with a logo on the face of the
card (i.e., Visa, MasterCard, and Discover).

493.2
1.6  Merchant Card Processor: the vendor selected by the Treasurer’s Office through competitive
selection to process payment cards on behalf of Marion County.
1.7  Merchant Identification Number (MID): a unique number assigned to each terminal location
or E-Commerce site that is used to track financial activity.
1.8  Payment Card:  see Merchant Card (also called Branded Card, Credit Card, Debit Card, and
Merchant Card).  Those cards used to pay for goods or services with a logo on the face of the
payment card (i.e., Visa, MasterCard, and Discover).
1.9  Payment Card Industry (PCI): a council originally formed by American Express, Discover
Financial Services, JCB, MasterCard Worldwide and Visa International on September 7,
2006, with the goal of managing the ongoing evolution of the Payment Card Industry Data
Security Standard.
1.10  Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI-DSS) also called PCI Compliance:  a
series of requirements for handling, transmitting, and storing sensitive data.
1.11  PCI Compliance Manager: the County Treasurer or designee responsible for developing,
implementing and updating the procedures required by this chapter, as well as other duties
specified within.

2. Requirements:

The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard sets forth twelve requirements for all merchants
as follows:
2.1. Install and maintain a firewall configuration to protect cardholder data.
2.2. Manage passwords and other security parameters.
2.3. Protect stored cardholder data.
2.4. Develop encryption protocols.
2.5. Install and maintain anti-virus software or programs.
2.6. Develop and maintain secure systems and applications.
2.7. Restrict computer access to cardholder data.
2.8. Manage unique identification for each person with computer access to cardholder data.
2.9. Restrict physical access to cardholder data.
2.10. Track and monitor all access to network resources and cardholder data.
2.11. Test security systems and processes.
2.12. Maintain a policy that addresses information security.

3. Responsibilities:

3.1.  The Treasurer’s Office is responsible for overseeing all payment card transactions accepted
            for the sale of goods and services within the county departments.
3.2.  The Treasurer’s Office will partner with its sponsoring merchant card processor
(Visa/MasterCard/American Express/Discover) and merchant card acquirer for all payment
card transactions accepted for the sale of goods and services by all county departments.
3.3.  The Treasurer’s Office will ensure that any Merchant Card Processor doing business with
Marion County will provide proof of compliance with PCI-DSS annually or when any
change is made to software or hardware used for card transactions.
3.4.  The County Treasurer or designee will be the PCI Compliance Manager for the county. The
PCI Compliance Manager is responsible to develop, implement, and update the procedures
required by Marion County and the Payment Card Industry, provide training and education

493.3
on payment card processing and security, notify appropriate parties of a suspected breach,
and manage the county’s PCI-DSS activities.
3.5.  Departments interested in accepting merchant cards for goods or services must apply to the
Marion County Treasurer’s Office by submitting a Merchant Account Application.
3.6.  Merchants are responsible for ensuring that all business processes for accepting, processing,
retaining, and disposing of cardholder data comply with PCI-DSS and all other applicable
policies and standards.
3.7.  Merchants must ensure that all employees that may process, transmit, store, reconcile, or
otherwise handle merchant cards attend merchant card training.
3.8.  Merchants must ensure that all employees that may process, transmit, store, reconcile, or
otherwise handle payment cards sign the Payment Card Merchant Compliance Statement to
document the employees’ understanding of and compliance with this policy.  The original
signed Compliance Statement must be sent to the Treasurer’s Office.  A copy must be
retained in the employee’s departmental file.
3.9.  Department employees that may process, transmit, store, reconcile, or otherwise handle
merchant cards must comply with this policy; including, all relevant PCI-DSS requirements,
Merchant Card Processing training attendance requirements, and signing the Merchant Card
Compliance Statement.
3.10.  Department employees must immediately notify the PCI Compliance Manager and their
supervisor upon discovery of a breach or potential breach of cardholder personal
information.
3.11.  The Information Technology Department is responsible to approve and/or implement all
computer networking, computer programming, and information system services necessary
for the departments to provide merchant card services to the public in a manner that is
compliant with PCI-DSS.
3.12.  The Information Technology Department is responsible to work with the PCI Compliance
Manager to meet PCI-DSS requirements related to information systems and provide
documentation to the PCI Compliance Manager as necessary.

4. Security/Destruction of Cardholder Information:

4.1  Marion County will comply fully with all Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards to
ensure the safekeeping and proper destruction of cardholder information.
4.2  In the event that cardholder personal information may be compromised, Marion County will
take immediate steps to work with the merchant card acquirer and processor for appropriate
action and notifications.

5.  Fees:
Merchants will be responsible for the actual costs incurred to process merchant card transactions,
including setup, monthly fees, hardware, and software costs, when applicable.

6.  Sanctions/Violations:

6.1. Merchants will be held responsible for any losses, penalties or punitive expenses due to
            inadequate controls or failure to comply with Payment Card Industry Standards.  Merchants
           are responsible for any and all fees or fines associated with a non-compliance or security
           breach.
6.2.     Employees who retain and misuse or share cardholder account data are subject to

493.4
           investigation, disciplinary action, and/or termination of employment, and may also be
           subject to criminal prosecution.
6.3 Failure to comply with this policy and all other PCI-DSS requirements carries severe
consequences which may include the loss of the ability to process merchant card
transactions.

7. Periodic Review:

            The PCI Compliance Manager shall review this policy not less than annually and in response to
            significant operational and legal changes, and modify the policy as needed to continue reasonable
            and appropriate protection of cardholder information.

Adopted:         2/11

Revised: 6/13