491.1
ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES

SECTION: Financial Management POLICY #: 491
TITLE: Position Control  PROCEDURE #: 491-A
 ORDER #: 08-48
DEPT: Finance DIVISION:
ADOPTED: 4/08 REVIEWED:4/24  REVISED:

PURPOSE: To establish a policy to manage increases in the number of personnel
positions in department programs.

AUTHORITY: The Marion County Board of Commissioners may establish rules and
regulations in reference to managing the interest and business of the county
under ORS 203.010, 203.035 and 203.111.

APPLICABILITY: All departments.

GENERAL POLICY: It is the policy of Marion County that department and programs may
increase the total number of full-time equivalent (FTE) personnel positions
over approved program budget levels only when there is new revenue to
support such positions.  All FTE increases must be approved through the
budget process.

DEFINITIONS: FTE or full-time equivalent:  Full-time employment is equivalent to 1.0
full-time equivalent personnel position.  Full-time employment for Marion
County consists of positions budgeted and paid either 37.5 or 40.0 hours per
work week.  Some positions are budgeted and paid at fewer hours per work
week, and are classified as part of a full-time equivalent, e.g., .5 FTE for 20
hours per week.  The FTE of each position of an organizational unit level
are frequently totaled to provide a total FTE, e.g., four .50 FTE are equal to
an equivalent of 2.0 FTE.

POLICY GUIDELINES:

1. Findings: Special revenue funds often receive new or additional grant or contract funding and, less
frequently, the authority to increase fees or other charges for services after adoption of the annual
budget.  The board must approve new or revised grants or contracts, and this is done outside of the
budget process.  Upon board approval, departments are ready to implement the improvement
and/or expansion of services by adding new positions allowed by the new funding. To wait for the
next scheduled supplemental budget process may delay implementation by several months.  This
may be avoided by requiring departments to complete supplemental budget requests immediately
following board approval of new funding.  After appropriate approval, departments could proceed
with recruitment of the new positions, with the understanding that the supplemental request would
SUBJECT:  POSITION CONTROL

491.2
not be processed until a later date, and that they must continue to keep personal services
expenditures within total appropriation authority.  The latter requirement does not usually present
a problem until well into a fiscal year, as total personal services appropriation authority for the
fiscal year as a rule will be sufficient to pay for the new positions until supplemental funding is
approved.

2. Responsibilities:

a. Departments must submit all FTE increase requests on human resources position request
forms.  The requests must gain finance department budget clearance and chief or deputy
administrative officer approval.  The positions must then be included in regular or
supplemental budget requests.  New positions for special revenue and enterprise fund
programs may be recruited after chief financial officer and budget officer approval of
supplemental budget requests prior to board approval.

b. Departments must clearly identify FTE increases and reference approved position requests
in regular and supplemental budget requests.

3. Exceptions:  Exceptions may be granted only by the budget officer.

4. Implementation:  The chief administrative officer shall implement this policy.

5. Periodic Review:  This policy shall be reviewed after the first year for improvements that surface
during the implementation year, and then at least every three years by the chief financial officer.