508-A.1
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES

TITLE: Employee Exposure Control to Bloodborne
Pathogens PROCEDURE #: 508-A
DEPT: Business Services DIVISION: Risk Management
EFFECTIVE
DATE: 10/23   REVIEWED:   REVISED:

OBJECTIVE: To establish procedures to limit and control occupational exposure to
bloodborne pathogens and other potentially infections materials.
REFERENCE: Policy 508 – Employee Exposure Control to Bloodborne Pathogens
APPLICABILITY: All employees and volunteers who could reasonably be expected to
encounter potentially infectious materials in the course of their work.
1. DEFINITIONS:

1.1. Blood:  Human blood, human blood components, and products made from human blood.
1.2. Bloodborne Pathogens:  Pathogenic microorganisms that are present in human blood and
can cause disease in humans.  These pathogens include, but are not limited to, hepatitis B
virus (HBV), hepatitis C virus (HBC) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
1.3. Contaminated:  The presence or the reasonably anticipated presence of blood or other
potentially infectious materials on an item or surface.
1.4. Contaminated Laundry:  Laundry that has been soiled with blood or other potentially
infectious materials or may contain sharps.
1.5. Contaminated Sharp:  Any contaminated object that can penetrate the skin including, but
not limited to, needles, scalpels, broken glass, broken capillary tubes, and exposed ends of
wires.
1.6. Decontamination:  The use of physical or chemical means to remove, inactivate, or destroy
bloodborne pathogens on a surface or item to the point where they are no longer capable of
transmitting infectious articles and the surface or item is rendered safe for handling, use or
disposal.
1.7. Engineering Controls:  Controls (e.g., self-sheathing needles, needleless systems, sharps
disposable containers) that isolate or remove the bloodborne pathogens hazard from the
workplace.  This includes Sharps with Engineered Sharps Injury Protections (SESIPs) which
is a non-needle sharp, or a needle device used for withdrawing body fluids, accessing a vein
or artery, or administering medications or other fluids, with a built-in safety feature or
mechanism that effectively reduces the risk of an exposure incident.
502-A.2
1.8. Exposure Determination:  The risk assessment that evaluates and determines if employees
have reasonably anticipated contact with human blood or other potential infectious
materials.
1.9. Exposure Incident:  A specific eye, mouth, other mucous membrane, non-intact skin, or
parenteral contact with blood or other potentially infectious materials that results from the
performance of an employee's duties.
1.10. Occupational Exposure:  Reasonably anticipated skin, eye, mucous membrane, or
parenteral contact with blood or other potentially infectious materials that may result from
the performance of an employee's duties.
1.11. Other Potentially Infectious Materials (OPIM):
1.11.1.  The following human body fluids: semen, vaginal secretions, cerebrospinal fluid,
synovial fluid, pleural fluid, pericardial fluid, peritoneal fluid, amniotic fluid,
saliva in dental procedures, any body fluid that is visibly contaminated with blood,
and all body fluids in situations where it is difficult or impossible to differentiate
between body fluids;
1.11.2.  Any unfixed tissue or organ (other than intact skin) from a human (living or dead);
and
1.11.3. HIV-containing cell or tissue cultures, organ cultures, and HIV-or HBV-containing
culture medium or other solutions; and blood, organs, or other  tissue from
experimental animals infected with HIV or HBV.
1.12. Parenteral:  Piercing mucous membranes or the skin barrier through such events as
needlesticks, human bites, cuts, and abrasions.
1.13. Personal Protective Equipment:  Specialized clothing or equipment worn by an employee
for protection against a hazard.  General work clothes (e.g., uniforms, pants, shirts, or
blouses) not intended to function as protection against a hazard are not considered to be
personal protective equipment.
1.14. Regulated Waste:  Liquid or semi-liquid blood or other potentially infectious materials;
contaminated items that would release blood or other potentially infectious materials in a
liquid or semi-liquid state if compressed; items that are caked with dried blood or other
potentially infectious materials and are capable of releasing these materials during handling;
contaminated sharps; and pathological and microbiological wastes containing blood or other
potentially infectious materials.
1.15. Universal Precautions:  An approach to infection control. According to the concept of
Universal Precautions, all human blood and certain human body fluids are treated as if
known to be infectious for HIV, HBV, HBC and other bloodborne pathogens.
1.16. Work Practice Controls:  Controls that reduce the likelihood of exposure by altering the
way a task is performed (e.g., prohibiting recapping of needles by a two-handed technique,
not reaching into a fluid filled container/sink that contains contaminated sharps with a
gloved hand).
502-A.3

2. BLOODBORNE PATHOGEN PROGRAMS
Marion County Risk Management will provide guidance and assist each department in assessing
requirements and developing a Bloodborne Pathogen program.
2.1. Determine which jobs are affected by bloodborne pathogens.
2.2. Evaluate each job position to determine which employees may be expected to be
occupationally exposed to blood or other potentially infections materials.
2.2.1. Exposure determination is made without considering the use of personal
protective equipment (PPE).  Jobs with sufficient evidence of reasonable
anticipated exposure.
2.2.2. Marion County provides protections to the employees with occupational
exposure.
3. CONTROLING EXPOSURE TO BLOODBORNE PATHOGENS
3.1. Reduce or eliminate the hazards of occupational exposure to bloodborne pathogens.
Departmental exposure control plans for the jobs with occupational exposure shall include
details on employee protection measures.
3.2. Plans shall describe how the department will use:
3.2.1. Engineering and work practice controls,
3.2.2. Personal protective clothing and equipment,
3.2.3. Employee training,
3.2.4. Medical surveillance.
3.2.5. Hepatitis B vaccinations,
3.2.6. Annual policy and procedure reviews, and
3.2.7. Other provisions as required by OSHA's Bloodborne Pathogens Standard (29 CFR
1910.1030).
3.3. Engineering controls are considered the preferred means of eliminating or minimizing
employee exposure and include the use of safer medical devices, such as needleless devices,
shielded needle devices, and plastic capillary tubes.
4. EXPOSURE CONTROL PLAN
4.1. Exposure control plans must include:
4.1.1. The exposure determination to create the list of job classifications that are
reasonably expected to have skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral contact with
502-A.4
blood and/or any body fluids that are contaminated with blood resulting from the
performance of their assigned job duties.
4.1.2. Procedures for evaluating the circumstances surrounding an exposure incident.
4.1.3. Schedule and method for implementing the provisions of the standard.
4.1.4. Annual review and updates as required OSHA or as needed when new tasks or
procedures affect employee occupational exposure.
5. Risk Management is available to help departments create their exposure control plan.

Adopted: 10/23 TG
APPENDIX A
Procedure 508-A:  Bloodborne Pathogen Exposure Control Plan Exposure Determination
Worksheet

H:\Policies & Procedures\508 Bloodborne Pathogens\Working Documents\AppendixA BBPControlAssessment.docx

Duties, tasks, or job classifications that place the employee at potential risk for occupational BBP
exposure:

Determinations are to be made without regard to the use of personal protective equipment.

1. Works with sharps:
1.1. Administers injections,
1.2. draws blood,
1.3. performs hemoglobin/PKU tests, or
1.4. other procedures that result in bleeding.

2. Examiner:
2.1. Performs physical examinations, which might result in contact with blood, semen,
vaginal secretions, or other potentially infectious materials.

3. Blood & other fluids:
3.1. Has contact with urine specimens, sputum, or other situations where it may be difficult
to distinguish between body fluids.

4. Cleaning/disinfection:
4.1. Cleans surfaces or instruments that have been soiled or contaminated with blood or
other potentially infectious materials.

5. Infectious waste:
5.1. Empties infections waste containers,
5.2. replaces/disposes of sharps containers,
5.3. carries red bags to biohazard box.

6. Clients:
6.1. Works with clients who may present a risk for reasonably anticipated exposure to
human bites, cuts, abrasions.

7. Designated to give first aid/CPR (other than Good Samaritan):
7.1. Apply dressings,
7.2. irrigate wounds.

8. Laundry:
8.1. Handles potentially contaminated clothing or laundry.

9. Other:
9.1. Performs duties not described above that may exposure employee to bodily fluids.