1005.1

ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES

SECTION: Vehicles POLICY #: 1005
TITLE: Parking at Marion County Facilities PROCEDURE #:
ORDER #:
DEPT: Business Services DIVISION: NA
ADOPTED: 1995 REVIEWED:  05/2024 REVISED: 01/2022

PURPOSE: To establish rules and regulations for parking in Marion County owned and
leased-parking facilities.

AUTHORITY: The Marion County Board of Commissioners may establish rules and
regulations in reference to managing the interest and business of the county
under ORS 203.010, 203.035, 203.111, and 203.230.

Marion County Code, Chapter 10.05 Parking.

APPLICABILITY: All elected officials, Marion County & State Court employees.

GENERAL POLICY: Marion County Board of Commissioners sets policies for parking of
county vehicles and parking for Marion County and State Court
employees. Marion County & State Court employees are eligible to park
in Marion County parking facilities subject to availability and these
policies and procedures.

POLICY:

1. Definitions:
1.1. “County Employee” includes Marion County Elected Official
1.2. “Courthouse and Courthouse Square (CH and CH Square) means the parking facilities at the
Marion County Courthouse and Courthouse Square complex
1.3. “Commercial Parking” means parking made available by a private or public concern for which a
user fee is charged.
1.4. “Designated Parking” means parking spaces within a parking facility that are designated for a
category or categories of parking users.
1.5. “Parking Control Device” means any sign, standard, painted area, marking or other
device, inscription, or designation giving notice of, delineating, controlling or restricting parking
on a parking facility.
1.6. “Parking Facility” means any such parking facility regulated pursuant to Marion County Code
Parking, Chapter 10.05 and includes those areas adjacent to the Courthouse, Courthouse Square,
Health Building, Juvenile Building, Marion County Correctional Facility, Marion County
Public Works, and any other Marion County facilities where the property is owned or under the
control of Marion County.
1.7. “Permit” means an authorization issued in accordance with these rules to park a motor vehicle
1005.2

or a bicycle in the Courthouse and Courthouse Square Parking Facilities (See Addendum A).
1.8. “Worksite” means the building, office, assembly point or another similar location
to which a county employee is:
1.8.1. Permanently assigned, or
1.8.2. Scheduled to report for work for five or more consecutive days, if other
than permanently assigned work site.

2. Responsibilities:
2.1. The Marion County Board of Commissioners has the responsibility to establish fees
as determined necessary for Marion County parking facilities.
2.2. Marion County Business Services Department (MCBS) has the responsibility to
manage parking in the CH and CH Square parking facilities. Management of these
parking facilities includes:
2.2.1. Assignment of parking spaces
2.2.2. Designation and placement of parking control devices
2.2.2. Collection of parking fees
2.2.3. Maintenance of parking facilities
2.3. For all other Marion County parking facilities:
2.3.1. Departments adjacent to the parking facility have the responsibility to
designate Parking in compliance with state laws or regulations.
2.3.2. MCBS has the responsibility for maintenance and placement of parking
control devices.
2.4. Marion County, its officers and employees, are not responsible for accidents, damage to
vehicles, theft or personal injury resulting from the use of any Marion County controlled
parking facility.

3. Parking Facility Rules:
3.1. All users of Marion County parking facilities must:
3.1.1. Comply with the Marion County Code, Chapter 10.05, Parking.
3.1.2. Comply with Safety and Security procedures outlined in Section 7 of Procedure
1005-A.

4. Assignment of Parking Spaces in CH and CH Square:
MCBS has the authority to issue permits, monitor, and contract parking spaces in CH and
CH Square parking facilities.

A county employee with a valid disabled person parking permit issued by Oregon Department
of Transportation (ODOT) under ORS 811.602, and otherwise eligible to park in a county
parking facility, may request a permitted paid disabled parking space.

4.1. Priority of Assignment; Reassignment; Waiting Lists
MCBS shall observe the descending order of applicant priority for assigning vacant vehicle
parking spaces in these two Marion County parking facilities.
4.1.1. County employees with a disabled parking permit per ORS 811.602
4.1.2. County fleet vehicles
4.1.3. County elected officials and department heads with offices in CH and CH
Square
4.1.4. Departments with offices outside of CH Square with a need for parking space(s)
for meetings and business with CH Square departments
1005.3

4.1.5. Marion County employees’ personal vehicles

4.2. MCBS may maintain a waiting list for persons interested in parking in CH and CH Square
parking facilities. The MCBS will consider the priority level of the application and the
applicant’s position on the waiting list based on the date of the request when making a
parking assignment.  If the next available space is offered and subsequently declined by the
next person in line on the waiting list, then the space will be offered to the next in line and
the declining party will be placed at the bottom of the waiting list.

4.2.1. Employees placed on the waiting list are not permitted to park in Department
paid spaces.  Department paid spaces are to be utilized for offsite employees
attending meetings, department pool cars, and designated employees
referenced in Section 5.2. of this policy.
4.2.2. Employees classified as contracted employees are not eligible to lease a
parking space at CH or CH Square parking facilities.  This is subject to
change based on availability.
4.2.3. In Marion County parking facilities, other than CH and CH Square, where
reserved spaces are available and there is no fee for parking, the department
director or designee of the department leasing or using the facility will
maintain a waiting list for persons interested in a reserved parking space. The
department will consider the priority level of the application and the
applicant’s position on the waiting list based on the date of the request when
making a parking assignment.

5. Parking Fees:
The Marion County Board of Commissioners may establish parking fees for monthly permitted paid
parking in CH and CH Square parking facilities.
5.1. Fees will be based on:
5.1.1. County’s costs to provide, manage, and enforce parking facilities
5.1.2. Local market conditions for commercial and other paid parking facilities
5.1.3. Community standards
5.2. All county elected officials and employees are responsible for the fees associated with
parking their personal vehicles, motorcycles and bicycles, regardless of whether they use
personal transportation during work hours. The only exception is the Assessor’s Office
where the department may pay for parking for employees in the following classifications:
Property Appraiser 1; Property Appraiser 2; Senior Property Appraiser and Appraisal
Section Supervisor.
5.3. Departments that have assigned parking spaces for county assigned fleet vehicles shall
be assessed a monthly fee per space, payable from the department operating budget.
5.4. Departments located in facilities other than CH Square may request a parking space or spaces
in CH Square for business purposes. These departments will be invoiced a monthly fee per
space, payable from the department operating budget.

6. Alternative Transportation Program:
Marion County may provide the following for alternative modes of transportation:
6.1. Bicycle lockers and/or stands within the Parking Facilities or on the facility grounds.
6.2. Electronic bicycles, scooters, or other electronic transportation devices powered by lithium
batteries shall be parked in bicycle lockers or designated areas for safety purposes.  Parking
electronic transportation devices is not permitted in stairwells or county offices.

1005.4

7. Enforcement:
Marion County Code Chapter 10.05 PARKING sets the requirements for enforcement.

Violation of Marion County Code Chapter 10.05 shall be enforced by the Marion County Sheriff’s
Office.

8. Exceptions:
Any other exceptions to this policy may only be granted by the Chief Administrative Officer for the
county or designee.

9. Violation of Policy:
Violating this policy and/or misconduct involving the use of a motor vehicle may be grounds for
revocation of parking permit, loss of eligibility to obtain a parking permit and/or disciplinary action
up to and including termination.

10. Periodic Review:
This policy will be reviewed every three years by the MCBS for necessary revisions.

Adopted 8/95
Revised 12/13, 1/22
Reviewed 1/22, 5/24