ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES

SUBJECT: COORDINATION OF HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES
1 Purpose
1.1 To establish a coordinated response to health, safety, and environmental issues resulting
from citations for violation of safety, work environment or environmental protection
standards.
1.2 Citations may be initiated by Oregon Occupational Safety and Health (OR-OSHA),
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Department of Environmental Quality
(DEQ) or Fire Marshal.
2  General Policy
2.1 The Risk Manager will be responsible for project leadership and coordination in
response to citations for violations and to ensure compliance with existing and future
laws, rules, and regulations.
3 Policy Guidelines
3.1 The Risk Manager and Department Head/Designee will provide leadership to
coordinate resources in a timely manner to respond to citations and the need for
compliance.
3.2 Risk Management and Department Head/Designee will serve as a clearing house for
administrative management monitoring and knowledge of health, safety and
environmental issues affecting the County.
3.3 When a department is cited for a violation of safety, work environment, or
environmental protection standards (OSHA, EPA, DEQ or Fire Marshal) the
department shall:
3.3.1  Send the citation to Risk Management and Legal Counsel.
3.3.2 The Risk Manager shall send a copy to the Chief Administrative Officer and the
Board of Commissioners.
3.3.3 The Risk Manager shall initiate meetings with appropriate departmental staff,
Legal Counsel, and other involved individuals, to discuss the County’s
response, allocation of responsibilities, and resources; and to establish a work
schedule for timely response.
4. Other Issues
4.1. The Risk Manager shall document decisions, project assignments and shall provide periodic
updates to the Board of Commissioners and the Chief Administrative Officer until the issue
has been resolved.
Adopted: 9/92
Reviewed: 1/96
Revised:  10 /23 TG
SECTION: Health Safety Security POLICY #: 507
TITLE: Coordination of Health, Safety,
and Environmental Issues
PROCEDURE #:
ORDER #: 96-9
DEPT: Business Services DIVISION: Risk Management
ADOPTED: 9/92 REVIEWED: 1/96 REVISED: 10/23