603-A.1
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES

TITLE: Workplace Violence Prevention Procedures PROCEDURE #: 603-A
DEPT: Business Services DIVISION: Risk Management
EFFECTIVE DATE:  REVIEWED:  REVISED:

OBJECTIVE: To establish procedures for addr essing situations involving real or potential
workplace violence.

REFERENCE: Policy #603

POLICY STATEMENT: Marion County is committed to maintaining a safe work environment, free
from all forms of violence, for all county employees, elected officials,
volunteers, contract workers, and agen ts.  Acts of viol ence are strictly
prohibited and will not be tolerated.

 Law enforcement personnel are often e xposed to situatio ns that involve
violence.  This policy is not meant to be applied during the course and
scope of law enforcement activities or mandated interactions.

APPLICABILITY: This policy applies to all county departments, employees, volunteers,
contractors, and agents of the county.

PROCEDURES:

1. Definitions:

“Workplace Violence” refers to violence or threats of violence including but not limited to
intimidation, harassment, coercion, physical a ttack, domestic violence or property damage,
regardless of the source of the violence, perpetrated in a Marion County employment setting.

2. Responsibilities:

Department heads and elected of ficials are responsible for th e safety of their employees,
volunteers, agents, clients, and customers.  Depa rtmental safety committees will assist in the
prevention of workplace violence by identifying external hazards and developing
recommendations for management’s considerati on.  Safety committees, at the request of the
department management, may assist in the development of internal policies and procedures related
to workplace violence.

All reports of workplace violence will be handled in a confidential manner.  Information will only
be released as necessary to ensure the safety and security of the workplace or as required by law.

SUBJECT:  WORKPLACE VIOLENCE PREVENTION PROCEDURES
3. Reporting:

Any county employee, volunteer, contract worker , or agent having know ledge of a workplace
violence incident or act of retaliation for re porting workplace violence must report the incident
immediately to a supervisor or management repres entative or human resources.  The supervisor or
manager shall promptly refer any incident to  risk management or human resources for
investigation.

4. Responding to Threats of Violence:

4.1. In the event of a violent incident, the safety of  the people in the area is the first priority.  If
there is a danger of imminent bodily harm, the following actions shall be taken:

4.1.1. Leave the scene, if it can be done safely.  No attempt should be made to control a
violent person.  This exception does not apply to law enforcement personnel.

4.1.2. Call 9-911 from a county desk phone.  (911 from a cellular phone.)

4.1.3. Follow all directions given by law enforcement.

4.1.4. The incident must be reported to a supe rvisor or division/department manager as
soon as it is safe to do so.  If a management representative is not immediately
available, the incident should be reported to risk management or human resources
immediately.

4.1.5. Division/department management shall contact risk management following the
event.  Risk management will coordinate with human resources and law
enforcement to ensure that the workplace is secure.

4.2. All employees are encouraged to  be alert to the possibility of  workplace violence.  If an
individual poses no immediate physical threat  but is making verbal threats or otherwise
acting in an intimidating manner, the following actions shall be taken:

4.2.1. Assess the situation to determ ine appropriate action needed to deescalate the threat.
Call 9-911 if necessary.

4.2.2. Keep away from the individual, if possible.

4.2.3. Notify a supervisor or manager immediately.

4.2.4. If at any time danger is perceived to  be imminent, law enforcement should be
called immediately.

4.2.5. Employees, volunteers, contractors and agents  must complete an incident report to
document the incident and actions taken, if any.

603-A.2
SUBJECT:  WORKPLACE VIOLENCE PREVENTION PROCEDURES

5. Investigating Reported Violations:

5.1. County Employees:

Supervisors shall promptly gather informati on regarding any reporte d violations of the
workplace violence prevention policy by county employees.  Human resources shall be
notified of the potential  violation as soon as possible but no later than the next business
day.

Human resources will in coordination with  risk management and the Marion County
Sheriff’s Office determine if a threat assessment is necessary.

Human resources will conduct an investigation to determine if the workplace violence
prevention policy has been violated and will  make recommendations  to the appropriate
department head or elected official.

5.2. Non-County Employees:

Supervisors shall contact risk management upo n being notified of a possible violation of
the workplace violence prevention policy by a non-county employee.

Risk management will coordinate with the Marion County Sheriff’s Office and the affected
county department to determine if a threat assessment should be completed and to facilitate
the implementation of necessary security measures.

6. Incident Debriefing:

Human resources, the affected department, and risk management will determine if an incident of
workplace violence requires an incident debrie fing.  Debriefing will be conducted by a qualified
mental health professional.  Preference will be given to mental health professionals that are part of
the county’s employee assistance program (EAP).  Information shared in the debriefing shall
remain confidential.  The purpose of the debriefi ng is to allow employees a chance to talk about
their experiences and compare their reactions with those of others.

Supervisors are encouraged to provide employ ees with information regarding the services
available through the county’s EAP.

7. Media Inquiries:

Questions from the news media relating to incidents of workplace violence should be forwarded to
either the Marion County Sheri ff’s Office spokesperson or to  the Marion County Board of
Commissioners Public Information Officer.
603-A.3