802 Policy 1
ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES

1.0 Purpose

This policy establishes policy and procedure for the purchase of state excess
property.

2.0 General Policy

It shall be County policy that only authorized personnel for County General
Services will be allowed to sign for the purchase of property from the State of
Oregon General Services Excess Property Facility.

3.0 Policy Guidelines/Procedures

a. The General Services Director, Administrative Assistant and Property
Clerk are authorized to sign for property from the state facility.
Department authorized employees will provide their signature on the
Authorized Representatives form submitted by General Services to the
State of Oregon in order to sign for pickup of property at state surplus
warehouse.

b. When a department wants to purchase state excess property, its
authorized representative will select the equipment and complete the
state request form.  The form will include the identification number,
quantity, description of the property and the department’s budget and
project number that will pay for the property.

c. Departments who have designed authorized employees may sign for
receipt of property

d. If no authorized employees are designated, department staff may call
General Services 588-5047 to determine if General Services authorized
staff are available for signature.  If staff is available, the department
SECTION: Property Management POLICY #: 802
TITLE: Purchase of State Excess Property PROCEDURE #:
 ORDER #:
DEPT: Finance DIVISION:
ADOPTED: 1/85 REVIEWED: 4/96 REVISED: 5/94

802 Policy 2
may request the state warehouse manager to transmit the property
request via FAX to number 588-5495 to request an authorizing
signature.  General Services staff will return the signed request via FAX
to number 378-8558 and the department may pick up the property.

e. If General Services staff is not available to FAX a signature, the
department representative will request the Property Clerk to sign for
the property at the state facility.  The department is responsible to
return at a later date for pick-up and transportation to their
department.

f. Designated employees will forward a copy of the property receipt to
General Services when picking up property.

g. All billing documents shall be directed to the Property Clerk regardless
of the option used in paragraphs c or d above.

Adopted: 1/85
Revised: 5/94
Reviewed: 4/96