A.1
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES

TITLE: Modification of Net Working Capital Budget PROCEDURE #:  416-A
DEPT: Finance DIVISION:
EFFECTIVE DATE: 12/17/2014 REVIEWED:  REVISED:

OBJECTIVE: To establish a procedure for adjusting budgeted actual net working capital
to replace estimated net working capital during budget execution.

REFERENCE: Policy #416.

POLICY STATEMENT: Departments are required to submit supplemental budget requests to modify
adopted budgeted net working capital estimates to actual net working
capital after the actual has been calculated and recorded in the financial
information management system (FIMS).

APPLICABILITY: Department heads, elected officials, and other employees who are
responsible for budget management at the fund and program level.

PROCEDURES:

1. D etermination of Actual Net Working Capital for the Current Fiscal Year

1.1. Current fiscal year actual net working capital is recorded in FIMS in the first quarter of the
fiscal year.  Departments should review Income Summary reports and note variances
between budget and actual net working capital at fund, program and service levels to begin
planning for a supplemental budget.

1.2. General Fund and Central Services Fund departments do not need to submit supplemental
budgets to adjust net working capital as there is no ending or beginning fund balances for
these funds at the department level.  General Fund net working capital is at the non-
departmental level while the Central Services Fund is set up as a self-balancing fund, e.g.,
it has no net income or loss.  The Finance Department is responsible for any post-budget
adoption modifications to the net working capital budget for the General Fund.

2. Prepare a Supplemental Budget Request

2.1 Departments will be notified that a supplemental budget stage is open and that it is the
appropriate stage to enter net working capital modifications.

2.2 Net working capital budget adj ustments are entered in the budget program (BUD), using
either positive or negative amounts according to whether the budgeted net working capital
is to be increased or decreased to the actual (FIMS) balance.  Entry is at the same level as
the adopted budget amounts which may be to the project level.
2.3  In certain situations, redistribution of net working capital between services (or projects)
within a program or among programs within a fund may be allowed.  If the revenues of
any service are legitimately transferable to or from other services or programs within a
fund, then the net working capital may also be transferable.  Departments are responsible
for knowing the state, federal or donor restrictions, if any, on shifting net working capital
derived from grants, contracts or donations from one service to another.

3. The Budget Officer and Chief Financial Officer are responsible for ensuring that a countywide
supplemental budget request includes requests to adjust the net working capital budget for each
fund that meets the criteria.

ATTACHMENTS:  None