212-A.1

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES

TITLE: County Litigation Defense  PROCEDURE #: 212-A
DEPT: Legal Counsel   PROGRAM: N/A
EFFECTIVE DATE: 7/08 REVIEWED: REVISED: 10/25

OBJECTIVE: To establish legal representation procedures for employee relations, tort
litigation, civil rights litigation, miscellaneous civil litigation,
administrative actions, and other matters.

REFERENCE: Policy #212

POLICY STATEMENT: The Marion County Office of Legal Counsel provides legal advice and
representation to the Board of Commissioners, County Administration,
and all other county departments and officials on legal matters related to
the county.

APPLICABILITY: All public officials, including county officers, employees or agents,
irrespective of whether or not a person is compensated for services.
PROCEDURES:

1. Employee Relations
1.1. All personnel disciplinary actions involving loss of pay or benefits, or termination of employment
must be reviewed with the Chief Administrative Officer or County Personnel Officer
(collectively CPO) prior to any actions being taken.
1.2. All grievances filed at the department head level must be reviewed with the CPO.
1.3. All grievances filed with the Board of Commissioners must be reviewed with the CPO and
legal counsel.
1.4. It is the responsibility of the CPO and HR analysts to ensure that the personnel officer and legal
counsel are informed of discipline that involves loss of pay or benefits or termination of
employment.

2. Arbitration of Employee Relations Issues
2.1. The elected official or department head will review the case and fully cooperate with the
CPO and HR analyst prior to the hearing before the arbitrator.
2.2. Prior to the hearing, human resources will review the facts, policies and law concerning the case
with legal counsel.
2.3. Any efforts at reasonable compromise or settlement, based upon the particular facts of the case,
will be undertaken through the elected official or department head.
2.4. If the arbitration involves an employee who has filed or threatened litigation against or has
submitted a tort claim notice to the county, legal counsel and risk management will be included in
the review.
212-A.2

2.5. If the CPO, after consultation and review, concludes that the case should not be arbitrated, this
conclusion will be communicated to the elected official or department head.
2.6. If the elected official or department head requests a meeting, the meeting will be
scheduled as soon as possible to discuss the recommendation.
2.7. The elected official or department head may request orally or in writing that the Board
of Commissioners review the recommendation not to proceed with arbitration.
2.8. A meeting will be scheduled as soon as possible between the board, elected official or
department head, CPO, and legal counsel to review the case.
2.8.1. The board will either approve or disapprove the recommendation not to proceed and
so advise the elected official or department head.

3. Tort Litigation
3.1. Marion County is self-insured under the provision of the Oregon Tort Claims Act (OTCA)
and maintains several additional insurance policies through its risk management division.
Defense and indemnification of county officers, employees and agents is provided by
Marion County pursuant to the OTCA.
3.2. Tort litigation and liability claims will be handled in the manner described by the
Risk Management Program Rules.
3.3. Marion County Legal Counsel is responsible for defending the county when litigation has
been filed or is expected to be filed.
3.3.1. All county elected officials, appointed officers, employees and agents shall cooperate
fully in the defense of the claims.
3.4. Any county elected official, appointed officer, employee or agent who is served with a copy
of a court complaint or other legal process shall note the date received and immediately
(within one business day) forward a copy of the document to legal counsel.
3.5. Once a tort claim notice has been received, all evidence related to the claims must be preserved.
3.5.1. Documents, regardless of the manner in which they are stored, must be retained and
may not be destroyed even if they have otherwise met the maximum records retention
requirements of the Oregon Archiving rules.
3.5.2. Legal counsel is responsible for notifying the appropriate department head or
elected official of the duty to preserve records.
3.5.3. The department head or elected official is responsible, in turn, for informing actual
or probable custodians of records within the department of the duty to preserve
records.  If the responsible person is unsure about the scope of records that should
be retained, they should contact legal counsel for assistance.
3.6. Marion County shall defend, save harmless and indemnify any of its officers, employees
and agents, whether elective or appointive, and former officers, employees, and agents,
against any tort claim or demand, whether groundless or otherwise, arising out of an
alleged act or omission allegedly occurring in the performance of duty while a county
officer, employee or agent, except in cases of malfeasance in office or willful or wanton
neglect of duty. If Oregon law (ORS 30.285 or successor or similar statute) is amended,
the scope of defense and indemnification shall automatically adjust to include Oregon
law requirements and Legal Counsel shall suggest appropriate policy updates.
3.7. Tort is defined as the breach of a legal duty that is imposed by law, other than a duty
arising from contract or quasi-contract, the breach of which results in injury to a specific
person or persons for which the law provides a civil right of action for damages or for a
protective remedy. ORS 30.260. This includes any tort claim or demand, whether
groundless or otherwise, arising out of an alleged act or omission occurring in the
212-A.3

performance of duty. ORS 30.285(1). If Oregon law (ORS 30.260, ORS 30.285, or
successor or similar statutes) is amended, the definition of tort shall automatically adjust
to include Oregon law requirements and Legal Counsel shall suggest appropriate policy
updates.

4. Civil Rights Litigation
4.1. Civil rights litigation may arise under a number of state and federal laws and filed either in
state or federal court, or before various state and federal administrative oversight agencies
like the state Bureau of Labor and Industries (BOLI) or the federal Equal Employment
Opportunities Commission (EEOC).
4.2. Remedies sought for civil rights violations may include: liability claims (money
damages), declaratory or injunctive relief, agency civil fines or penalties, attorney fees,
punitive damages, and costs and expenses.
4.3. Civil rights liability claims will be handled in the manner described by the Risk
Management Program Rules.
4.4. Some civil rights litigation seeking declaratory or injunctive relief only and all civil rights
litigation filed with oversight agencies empowered to impose civil fines or penalties are
excluded from coverage by the Insurance Fund.
4.4.1. Legal counsel will work directly with the department on civil rights claims not covered
by the Insurance Fund
4.5. Marion County Legal Counsel is responsible for defending the county when civil rights
litigation has been filed or is expected to be filed, either in court or before administrative
agencies.
4.6. All county elected officials, appointed officers, employees and agents shall cooperate fully in
the defense of the claims.
4.7. Any county elected official, appointed officer, employee or agent who is served with a copy of
a court complaint, notice of an agency complaint, or other legal process shall note or stamp the
date received and immediately (within one business day) forward a copy of the document to
legal counsel.
4.7.1. Once litigation has been filed, notice of claims or demand of payment is made, or notice
of an administrative filing is received, whichever event occurs sooner, all evidence
related to the claims must be preserved.
4.7.2. Documents, regardless of the manner in which they are stored, must be retained and
may not be destroyed even if they have otherwise met the maximum records retention
requirements of the Oregon Archiving rules.
4.7.3. Legal counsel is responsible for notifying the appropriate department head or
elected official of the duty to preserve records.
4.7.4. The department head or elected official is responsible, in turn, for informing actual
or probable custodians of records within the department of the duty to preserve
records.

5. General Policies, Miscellaneous Civil Litigation, Administrative Actions, and Other Matters
5.1. Legal representation includes miscellaneous civil litigation, administrative actions, and other
matters, so long as related to alleged acts or omissions allegedly in the performance of duty
for the county that are not a willful or wanton neglect of duty. This can include, but is not
limited to: contract litigation, declaratory judgment actions, election law challenges, review
of denial of concealed handgun permits, wage and hour complaints, writs of habeas corpus,
writs of mandamus, writs of review, invalid encumbrances, complaints to the Oregon
Government Ethics Commission, and complaints to licensing/regulatory boards for
credentials required for county employment.
212-A.4

5.2. Liability exposure to the county may include damages, opposing party attorney fees,
the payment of costs and expenses, the county being compelled to take action or refrain
from action, or harassment of county employees that discourages service to the county.
5.3. Marion County Legal Counsel will work directly with the department or official on
miscellaneous civil litigation, administrative complaints, and other matters.
5.3.1. All county elected officials, appointed officers, employees and agents shall cooperate
fully in the defense of claims.
 If Marion County Legal Counsel determines and certifies
to the Board of Commissioners that an official, officer, employee or agent has not
cooperated or has otherwise acted in prejudice of the defense of the claim, the Board of
Commissioners may at any time reject the defense of the claim.
5.3.2. Marion County Legal Counsel will appear and defend the county officer, employee or
agent unless after investigation it is determined that the claim or demand does not arise
out of an alleged act or omission allegedly occurring in the performance of duty, or that
the alleged act or omission complained of amounted to malfeasance in office or willful
or wanton neglect of duty, in which case the Board of Commissioners may reject
defense of the claim.
5.3.3. Marion County may obtain insurance that substitutes for county defense obligations.
5.3.4. County legal defense does not constitute any admission or commitment for
indemnification.
5.3.5. County counsel represents the county. When representing county officials, county
counsel shall ask those officials to sign a form agreeing to representation. Failure to
agree to representation may result in the County rejecting defense of the claim and
indemnification.
5.4. Any county elected official, appointed officer, employee or agent who is served with a copy of
a court complaint or other pleading, notice of an agency complaint, or other legal process shall
note the date received and immediately (within one business day) forward a copy of the
document to legal counsel.
5.5. Once litigation has been filed, notice of claims or demand of payment is made, or notice of an
administrative filing is received, whichever event occurs sooner, all evidence related to the
claims must be preserved.

5.5.1. Documents, regardless of the manner in which they are stored, must be retained and may
not be destroyed even if they have otherwise met the maximum records retention
requirements of the Oregon Archiving rules.
5.5.2. Legal counsel is responsible for notifying the appropriate department head or elected
official of the duty to preserve records.
5.5.3. The department head or elected official is responsible, in turn, for informing actual or
probable custodians of records within the department of the duty to preserve records.

5.6. When hiring outside counsel, Marion County Legal Counsel shall take reasonable steps to
balance reducing legal representation costs while also mitigating legal risk based on
capacity and expertise.

5.7. Updates to the legal defense policy and procedure are prospective only.