—          Marion County                                                   ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES
              OREGON

SECTION:        Financial Management                                       POLICY #:            496

TITLE:          Investment of Public Funds - Procedures                    PROCEDURE #:         496-A

                                                                           ORDER #:             12-63

DEPT:           Treasurer’s Office                                         DIVISION:            NA

ADOPTED:        12/10                  REVISED:           10/23            READOPTED:           3/26

OBJECTIVES:                    To establish a procedure for creating new, amending or rescinding county
                               policies and procedures.

REFERENCE:                     Policy #496

POLICY STATEMENT:              It is the policy of the Marion County Board of Commissioners to invest
                               public funds in a manner that will provide the highest investment return
                               with the maximum security, while meeting the daily cash flow demands of
                               Marion County. The policy and these related procedures conform to federal,
                               state and local statutes, regulations and standards governing the investment
                               of public funds.

APPLICABILITY:                 These investment procedures apply to portfolio activities of Marion County
                               with regards to investing the financial assets of all funds, including but not
                               limited to the following:

                                         General funds
                                         Special revenue funds
                                         Internal service funds
                                         Capital project funds
                                         Enterprise funds
                                         Debt service funds
                                         Unsegregated tax funds
                                         Trust and agency funds
                                         Development agency funds
                                         Taxing districts
                                         Special district funds

AUTHORITY:                     Funds of Marion County will be invested and accounted for in compliance
                               with the provisions of ORS Chapters 244, 294 and 295; federal and state
                               laws;     IRS   regulations;   GAAP   and    GASB       guidelines;      and   all   other
                               applicable statutes, policies and written procedures.

                                                     496-A. 1
SUBJECT:     INVESTMENT     OF PUBLIC FUNDS

                       The Marion County Board of Commissioners may establish rules and regu-
                       lations in reference to managing the interest and business of the county
                       under ORS Chapters 203.010, 203.035 and 203.111.

OBJECTIVES             The primary objectives of Marion County Treasurer’s investment activities,
                       in priority order, shall be:

                       A.   Safety   and   preservation   of capital   and   protection   of principal:
                             Safety of principal is the foremost objective of the investment program.
                            Investments of Marion County shall be undertaken in a manner that
                            seeks to ensure the preservation of capital in the overall portfolio.

                            Liquidity: | Marion County’s investment portfolio will remain
                            sufficiently liquid to meet all operating requirements that might be
                            reasonably anticipated.

                            Return on investment:     Marion County’s investment portfolio shall be
                            designed with the objective of attaining a rate of return throughout
                            budgetary and economic cycles, commensurate with Marion County’s
                            risk constraints and cash flow requirements of the portfolio.

STANDARDS    OF CARE

                            Prudence:
                            The standard of prudence to be used by the Treasurer and Finance staff
                            shall be the prudent person standard, i.e., investments shall be made
                            with judgment and care, under circumstances then prevailing, which
                            persons of prudence, discretion and intelligence exercise in the
                            management of their own affairs, not for speculation, but for
                            investment, considering the probable safety of their capital as well as
                            the probable income to be derived.

                            The Treasurer and Finance © staff, acting in accordance with these
                            written procedures and the related investment policy, and exercising due
                            diligence, shall be relieved of personal responsibility for an individual
                            security risk or market price fluctuations, provided deviations from
                            expectations are reported in a timely manner, and that investment
                            transactions are carried out in accordance with these procedures and the
                            related investment policy.

                            Ethics and Conflicts of Interest:
                            County employees involved in the investment process shall refrain from
                            personal activity that could conflict with the proper execution and man-
                            agement of the investment program, or that could impair their ability to

                                            496-A.2
SUBJECT:   INVESTMENT   OF PUBLIC FUNDS

                        make impartial decisions. Such employees shall disclose any material
                        interests in financial institutions with which they conduct business.
                        They shall further disclose any personal financial or investment
                        positions that could be related to the performance of the investment
                        portfolio. Such employees shall at all times comply with the State of
                        Oregon Government Ethics Commission guidelines set forth in ORS
                        Chapter 244 and the Marion County Public Official Ethics policy.

                    C. Delegation of Authority:
                       The Treasurer is the designated investment officer of the County and is
                       responsible for daily cash management and all investment decisions and
                       activities.   No person is authorized to engage in an investment
                       transaction for the county, except as provided under the terms of the
                       board adopted policy and these procedures established by the
                       investment officer. The Treasurer may authorize Finance staff to act as
                       his/her designee.

                         1.   Governing Body: The ultimate fiduciary responsibility and authority
                              for the investment of County funds resides with the Board of
                              Commissioners. The County hereby designates the Treasurer as the
                              Investment Officer for the County’s funds. The Treasurer shall
                              invest County funds in accordance with ORS Chapter 294, Public
                              Financial Administration, and with the county Investment Policy
                              and these procedures. Both the Investment Policy and related
                              procedures shall constitute a “written order” from the Board of
                              Commissioners per ORS 294.035.
                        2.    Investment Advisor: Subject to required procurement procedures,
                              the County may engage the support services of outside professionals
                              in regard to its financial program, so long as it can be demonstrated
                              or anticipated that these services produce a net financial advantage
                              or necessary financial protection of the County’s resources. External
                              investment advisors shall be subject to Oregon Revised Statutes and
                              the provisions of the county Investment Policy. The Advisor shall
                              provide non-discretionary advisory services, which requires prior
                              approval from the Treasurer.

                              In order to optimize total return through active portfolio
                              management, resources shall be allocated to the cash management
                              program.

TRANSACTION COUNTERPARTIES, INVESTMENT ADVISORS, DEPOSITORIES

                    A. Broker/Dealers:
                       The Investment Officer shall determine which broker/dealer firms and
                       registered representatives are authorized for the purposes of investing

                                         496-A.3
SUBJECT:   INVESTMENT   OF PUBLIC FUNDS

                        funds within the scope of this investment policy. A list will be
                        maintained of approved broker/dealer firms and affiliated registered
                        representatives.

                        The following minimum criteria must be met prior to authorizing
                        investment transactions. The Investment Officer may impose more
                        stringent criteria.

                         1.   Broker/Dealer firms must meet the following criteria:
                              1.  Be registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission
                                  (SEC);
                              ii. Be registered with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
                                    (FINRA);
                              ili. Provide most recent audited financials;
                              iv.   Provide FINRA Focus Report filings.

                        2.    Approved broker/dealer employees who execute transactions with
                              the County must meet the following minimum criteria:
                              i.   Be a registered representative with the Financial Industry
                                   Regulatory Authority (FINRA);
                              il. Be licensed by the state of Oregon;
                              iii. Provide certification (in writing) of having read, understood, and
                                   agreed to comply with the most current version of this
                                   investment policy.

                        3.    If an investment advisor is contracted to provide securities
                              transactions on behalf of the County, the advisor’s approved
                              broker/dealer list will be provided to the County for approval. Buys
                              and sells may be transacted with any dealers on the advisor’s
                              approved list. The Investment Officer may assign the responsibility
                              of broker/dealer due diligence and licensing documentation to the
                              Advisor; it must be available upon request.

                        The Advisor broker/dealer review should include:
                            i. FINRA Certification check
                            ii. Firm Profile
                            iii. Firm History
                            iv. Firm Operations
                            v. Disclosures of Arbitration Awards, Disciplinary and Regulatory
                                   Events
                              Vi.  State Registration Verification
                              Vil. Financial review of acceptable FINRA         capital requirements or
                                   letter of credit for clearing settlements.

                        The advisors must provide the County with any changes to the list prior
                        to transacting on behalf of the County.

                                           496-A.4
SUBJECT:   INVESTMENT    OF PUBLIC FUNDS

                    B.    Investment Advisors:
                          An Investment Advisor may be utilized to manage funds and will be
                          selected through a competitive RFP process or cooperative purchasing
                          agreement. The Advisor must meet the following criteria:

                               1.   The investment advisor firm must be registered with the
                                    Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or licensed by the
                                    state of Oregon; (Note: Investment advisor firms with assets
                                    under management > $100 million must be registered with the
                                    SEC, otherwise the firm must be licensed by the state of
                                    Oregon);
                              2.    All    investment    advisor   firm  representatives conducting
                                    investment transactions on behalf of the County must be
                                    registered representatives with FINRA;
                              3.    All    investment    advisor   firm  representatives conducting
                                    investment transactions on behalf of the County must be licensed
                                    by the state of Oregon;
                              4.    Contract terms will include that the Investment      advisor   will
                                    comply with the County’s Investment Policy.

                          A periodic (at least annual) review of all authorized investment advisors
                          under contract will be conducted by the Investment Officer to determine
                          their continued eligibility within the portfolio guidelines. The
                          Investment Advisor must notify the County immediately if any of the
                          following issues arise while serving under a County contract:

                                    Pending investigations by securities regulators.
                                    Significant changes in net capital.
                                    Pending customer arbitration cases.
                                    Regulatory enforcement actions.

                         . Qualified Institutions — Financial Institutions — Banks:
                           All financial banks that provide bank deposits, certificates of deposits or
                           any other deposit of the bank to the County must either be fully covered
                           by the FDIC or the bank must be a participant of the Public Funds
                           Collateralization Program (PFCP) program. ORS Chapter 295 governs
                          the collateralization of Oregon public funds and provides the statutory
                          requirements for the Public Funds Collateralization Program. Bank
                          depositories are required to pledge collateral against any public funds
                          deposits in excess of deposit insurance amounts. This provides
                          additional protection for public funds in the event of a bank loss. ORS
                          Chapter 295 sets the specific value of the collateral, as well as the types
                          of collateral that are acceptable. ORS Chapter 295 creates a shared
                          liability structure for participating bank depositories, better protecting

                                               496-A.5
SUBJECT:   INVESTMENT    OF PUBLIC FUNDS

                         public funds   though   still not guaranteeing   that all funds   are   100%
                         protected.

                    D. Competitive Transactions:
                       The Investment Officer will obtain telephone, faxed or emailed quotes
                       before purchasing or selling an investment. The Investment Officer will
                       select the quote which best satisfies the investment objectives of the
                       investment portfolio within the parameters of this policy. The
                       Investment Officer and/or the Investment Advisor will maintain a
                       written record of each bidding process including the name and prices
                       offered by each participating financial institution.

                         In the instance of a security for which there is no readily available
                         competitive bid or offering on the same specific issue, the Investment
                         Officer shall document quotations for comparable or alternative
                         securities.

                         The County’s investment advisor that is providing investment
                         management services must provide documentation of competitive
                         pricing execution on each transaction. The investment advisor will
                         retain documentation and provide upon request.

SAFEKEEPING, CUSTODY AND CONTROLS

                    A.   Safekeeping of Securities and Funds:
                         Securities will be held by an independent third-party safekeeping
                         institution selected by the County in the County’s segregated account.
                         Upon request, the safekeeping institution shall make available a copy of
                         its Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements (SSAE) No. 16.

                         All trades of marketable securities will be executed on a delivery versus
                         payment (DVP) basis to ensure that securities are deposited in the
                         County’s safekeeping institution prior to the release of funds. The
                         County will have online access through the safekeeping bank for
                         verification of the account holdings and transactions.

                    B.   Bank Deposits and Certificates of Deposit:
                         The County may hold bank deposits or certificates of deposits at banks
                         qualified under ORS 295.

                    C. Accounting Method:
                       The County will comply with required legal provisions and Generally
                       Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). The accounting principles are
                       those contained in the pronouncements of authoritative bodies
                       including, but not necessarily limited to, the American Institute of

                                        496-A.6
SUBJECT:   INVESTMENT     OF PUBLIC FUNDS

                           Certified Public Accountants (AICPA); the Financial Accounting
                           Standards Board (FASB); and the Government Accounting Standards
                           Board (GASB). As required by accounting standards, the portfolio will
                           be marked to market monthly, with any resulting gain or loss noted in
                           the county’s financial statements at year-end.

                          . Internal Controls:
                           The Treasurer, through the Finance Department staff, is responsible for
                           establishing and maintaining an adequate internal control structure
                           designed to reasonably protect the assets of Marion County from loss,
                           theft or misuse.

                           Accordingly, Finance Department staff shall establish a process for an
                           annual review by an external auditor to assure compliance with Oregon
                           state law and Marion County policies and procedures. This audit will
                           generally coincide with the annual external financial audit.

AUTHORIZED   AND SUITABLE INVESTMENTS

                     A.    Authorized Investments:
                           All investments of the County shall be made in accordance with Oregon
                           Revised Statutes: ORS 294.035 (investment of surplus funds of political
                           subdivisions; approved investments), ORS 294.040 (Restriction on
                           investments under ORS 294.035), ORS 294.135 (Investment maturity
                           dates), ORS 294.145 (Prohibited conduct for custodial officer including
                           not committing to invest funds or sell securities more than 14 business
                           days prior to the anticipated date of settlement), and ORS 294.805 to
                           294.895 (Local Government Investment Pool). Any revisions or
                           extensions of these sections of the ORS shall be assumed to be part of
                           this Investment Policy immediately upon being enacted. Minimum
                           credit ratings and percentage limitations apply to the time of purchase.

                          . Suitable Investments:

                           US Treasury Obligations: Direct obligations of the United States
                           Treasury whose payment is guaranteed by the United States. [ORS
                           Section 294.035(3)(a)]

                           US Agency Obligations: Federal agency and instrumentalities of the
                           United States or enterprises sponsored by the United States Government
                           (GSE) and whose payment is guaranteed by the United States, the
                           agencies and instrumentalities of the United States or enterprises
                           sponsored    by   the United     States  Government.     [ORS   Section
                           294.035(3)(a)]

                                           496-A.7
SUBJECT:   INVESTMENT   OF PUBLIC FUNDS

                        Municipal Debt: Lawfully issued debt obligations of the States of
                        Oregon, California, Idaho and Washington and political subdivisions of
                        those states if the obligations have a long-term rating on the settlement
                        date of AA- or better by S&P or Aa3 or better by Moody’s or equivalent
                        rating by any nationally recognized statistical rating organization, or are
                        rated on the settlement date in the highest category for short-term
                        municipal debt by a nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
                        [ORS Section 294.035(3)(c)]

                        Corporate Indebtedness: Corporate indebtedness subject to a valid
                        registration statement on file with the Securities and Exchange
                        Commission or issued under the authority of section 3(a)(2) of the
                        Securities Act of 1933. Corporate indebtedness must be rated on the
                        settlement date AA- or better by S&P or Aa3 or better by Moody’s or
                        equivalent rating by any nationally recognized statistical rating
                        organization. [ORS Section 294.035(3)()]

                        Commercial Paper: Corporate indebtedness subject to a_ valid
                        registration statement on file with the Securities and Exchange
                        Commission or issued under the authority of section 3(a)(2) or 3(a)3 of
                        the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Commercial Paper must be
                        rated Al by Standard and Poor’s or P1 by Moody’s or equivalent rating
                        by any nationally recognized statistical rating organization. Issuer
                         constraints for commercial paper combined with corporate notes will be
                        limited by statute to 5%     of market value    per issuer.   [ORS   Section
                        294.035(3)(i)]

                         Certificates of Deposit: Certificates of deposit in insured institutions as
                         defined in ORS 706.008, in credit unions as defined in ORS Section
                         723.006 or in federal credit unions, if the institution or credit union
                         maintains a head office or a branch in this state [ORS Section
                         294.035(3)(d)].

                        Bank Time Deposit/Savings Accounts: Time deposit open accounts or
                        savings accounts in insured institutions as defined in ORS Section
                        706.008, in credit unions as defined in ORS Section 723.006 or in
                        federal credit unions, if the institution or credit union maintains a head
                        office or a branch in this state [ORS Section 294.035(3)(d)(e)].

                        Bankers’ Acceptances: A short-term credit investment created by a
                        non-financial firm and guaranteed by a qualified financial institution
                        whose short-term letter of credit rating is rated in the highest category
                        without any refinement or gradation by one or more nationally
                        recognized statistical rating organization. For the purposes of this
                        paragraph, “qualified financial institution” means: (i) A financial
                        institution that is located and licensed to do banking business in the

                                         496-A.8
SUBJECT:   INVESTMENT    OF PUBLIC FUNDS

                          State of Oregon; or (ii) A financial institution that is wholly owned by a
                          financial holding company or a bank holding company that owns a
                          financial institution that is located and licensed to do banking business
                          in the State of Oregon. [ORS 294.035(3)(h)]

                          Repurchase Agreements: Purchased under the terms if the County
                          approved Master Repurchase Agreement. The repurchase agreement
                          must be in writing and executed in advance of the initial purchase of the
                          securities that are the subject of the repurchase agreement. Repurchase
                          agreement collateral is limited in maturity to three years and priced
                          according to percentages prescribed by written policy of the Oregon
                          Investment Council or the Oregon Short-Term Fund Board. Acceptable
                          collateral includes: (i) US Treasury Securities: 102% and (ii) US
                          Agency Discount and Coupon Securities: 102%. The maximum term of
                          any repurchase agreement to 90 days.

                          Local Government Investment Pool: State Treasurer’s local short-term
                          investment fund up to the statutory limit per ORS Section 294.810.

                    As of the date of this policy, all of the above securities, deposits and
                    transactions are permitted under Oregon Revised Statutes. Any deviation
                    from this list must be pre-approved in writing by the Chief Financial
                    Officer.

                    The total amount of funds falling within the scope of this policy over the
                    next three years is expected to range between $200 million and $350
                    million.

                    C.    Collateralization:
                          All bank deposits, time deposits, Certificates of Deposit and savings
                          accounts shall be held in qualified Oregon depositories in accordance
                          with ORS Chapter 295.018. All depositories must be on the State of
                          Oregon’s qualified list. Additional collateral requirements may be
                          required     if the      Investment     Officer     deems     increased    collateral   is
                          beneficial    to   the     protection    of   the    monies     under     the   County’s
                          management.

INVESTMENT   PARAMETERS

                    A.    Diversification
                          To eliminate risk of loss resulting from the over-concentration of assets
                          in a specific maturity, issuer, or class of securities, assets shall be
                          diversified by maturity, issuer, and class of security. Diversification
                          strategies shall be determined and revised periodically by the investment
                          officer for all funds.    The portfolio shall further be diversified by

                                             496-A.9
SUBJECT:   INVESTMENT   OF PUBLIC FUNDS

                         limiting investments to avoid overconcentration from a specific issuer or
                         business sector (excluding U.S. Treasury securities), investing in
                         securities with varying maturities, and continuously investing a portion
                         of the portfolio in readily available funds such as the local government
                         investment pool (LGIP) or accounts in insured institutions as defined in
                         ORS Chapter 723.006 to ensure that appropriate liquidity is maintained
                         in order to meet ongoing obligations.

                              Credit risk: is the risk that a security or a portfolio will lose some or
                              all of its value due to a real or perceived change in the ability of the
                             issuer to repay its debt.

                             Liquidity risk: is the risk that an investment may         not be easily
                             marketable or redeemable.

                             Interest rate risk: longer term investments have the potential to
                             achieve higher returns but are also likely to exhibit higher market
                             value price volatility due to the changes in the general level of
                             interest rates.

                        . Investment Parameters

                         The County will utilize S&P, Moody’s, and Fitch as recognized rating
                         agencies and issuers must be rated by at least one with the following
                         minimum of AA- / Aa3 / AA- or above at the issuer level. The
                         minimum average credit rating for the total portfolio will be in the AA
                          category.

                                         496-A.10
SUBJECT:                       INVESTMENT          OF PUBLIC FUNDS

                               Diversification Constraints on Total Holdings

                                                                                                                   Ratings, S&P,
Issue Type                                                            Maximum        %           Maximum       %    Moody’s, or    Maximum
    ue        mye                                                        Holdings                 per Issuer        Equivalent     Maturity
                                                                                                                      NRSRO

US Treasury Obligations                                                     100%                    None                N/A        5.25 years

US Agency Obligations                                                       100%                     35%                N/A        5.25 years

         se                                                                                                          AA- / Aa3     5.25 years
Municipal Bonds (oR, CA, ID,WA)                                             25%
                                                                              ‘0,
                                                                                                      5%0,          Short term*

Corporate Notes                                                                                                      AA-/ Aa3      5.25 years

Commercial Paper                                                                                                      Al/Pi        270 days

       .        .      .                                                                                           Oregon Public
Bank Time Deposits/Savings                                                  20%9,                    20%0,           Depository       N/A

Certificates of Deposit                                                     20%                      10%           or eee Public   5.25 years
                                                                                                                      epository

Banker’s Acceptance                                                         25%                      10%              Al/P1         180 days

Repurchase Agreements                                                        10%                      5%              Al/P1         90 days
   p

Oregon regon Shortonort Term term Fund
                                   fun                              Maximum   al oyed
                                                                     per ORS 294.810                N pie               N/A           N/A
**Short Term Ratings: Moody’s — P1/MIG1/VMIG1. S&P — A-1/SP-1, FitchF]
**35% maximum combined corporate and commercial paper per ORS
***1ssuer constraints apply to the combined issues in corporate and commercial paper holdings.

                                               C. Investment Maturity:

                                                           The maximum stated final maturity of individual securities in the
                                                           portfolio shall be five and a quarter (5.25) years, except as otherwise
                                                           stated in this policy.
                                                           Liquidity funds will be held in the State Pool or accounts in insured
                                                           institutions as defined in ORS Chapter 723.006.
                                                           Longer term/Core funds will be the defined as the funds in excess of
                                                           liquidity requirements.     The investments in this portion of the
                                                           portfolio will have maturities between 1 day and 5.25 years.
                                                           The weighted average maturity of the portfolio should not exceed 3
                                                           years.

                                                                             496-A.11
SUBJECT:   INVESTMENT      OF PUBLIC FUNDS

                        Total Portfolio Maturity Constraints:

                                                            Minimum % of
                Maturity Constraints    oe                  Total Portfolio

                Under 30 days                                     10%

                Under 1 year       .                             . 25%        7

                Under 5.25 years                                 100%
                      .           .                        Maximum of Total
                Maturity Constraints a                     Portfolio in Years.

                Weighted Average Maturity                         3.00
                                                            Maximum % of
                Security Structure Constraint
                                                       _ Total Portfolio _
                Callable Agency Securities                        25%

                        C. Prohibited Investments:

                               e   The County shall not invest in “144A” private placement securities,
                                   this includes commercial paper privately placed under section
                                   4(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933
                               e   The County shall not lend securities nor directly participate in a
                                   securities lending or reverse repurchase program.
                               e   The County shall not purchase mortgage-backed securities.
                               e   The County will not purchase, per ORS 294.040, any bonds of
                                   issuers listed in ORS 294.035(3)(a) to (c) that have a prior default
                                   history.
                               e   No commitments to buy or sell securities may be made more than 14
                                   days prior to the anticipated settlement date or receive a fee other
                                   than interest for future deliveries.

                        D. Sale of Securities:
                           The investment officer may elect to liquidate a security at any time. In
                           cases where the ratings of a security currently held are downgraded, the
                           investment officer may hold the security to maturity or sell the security
                           to maintain the overall credit quality of the portfolio but in all cases will
                           inform the board of commissioners of the downgraded investment
                               within thirty days.

INVESTMENT   PROCEEDS FROM DEBT ISSUANCE

                        Investments of bond proceeds are restricted under bond covenants that may
                        be more restrictive than the investment parameters included in this policy.
                        The investments will be made in a manner to match cash flow expectations
                        based on managed disbursement schedules.

                                                496-A.12
SUBJECT:   INVESTMENT     OF PUBLIC FUNDS

                     Liquidity for bond proceeds will be managed through the OSTF         Pool or
                     Bank deposit balances.

                     Funds from bond proceeds and amounts held in a bond payment reserve or
                     proceeds fund may be invested pursuant to ORS 294.052. Investments of
                     bond proceeds are typically not invested for resale and maturity matched
                     with expected outflows.

                     Information will be maintained for arbitrage rebate calculations.

INVESTMENT   OF RESERVE    OR CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS

                     Pursuant to ORS 294.135(1)(b), reserve or capital improvement project
                     monies may be invested in securities exceeding 5.25 years when the funds
                     in question are being accumulated for an anticipated use that will occur
                     more than 18 months after the funds are invested, then, upon the approval of
                     the governing body of the county, municipality, school district or other
                     political subdivision, the maturity of the investment or investments made
                     with the funds may occur when the funds are expected to be used.

POLICY COMPLIANCE   AND PERFORMANCE           STANDARDS

                     A. Compliance Measurement and Procedures:
                        1. Compliance Report: A compliance report documenting the portfolio
                           versus the investment policy shall be maintained quarterly.
                        2. Compliance Measurement: Guideline measurements will use market
                           value of investments.
                        3. Compliance Procedures:
                               i.  If the portfolio falls outside of compliance with adopted
                                   investment     policy   guidelines    or is being     managed
                                   inconsistently with this policy, the Investment Officer shall
                                   bring the portfolio back into compliance in a prudent manner
                                   and as soon as prudently feasible.
                             ii.   Violations of portfolio guidelines as a result of transactions;
                                   actions to bring the portfolio back into compliance and;
                                   reasoning for actions taken to bring the portfolio back into
                                   compliance shall be documented and reported to the Board
                                   of Commissioners.
                            iii.   Due to fluctuations in the aggregate surplus funds balance,
                                   maximum percentages for a particular issuer or investment
                                   type may be exceeded at a point in time. Securities need not
                                   be liquidated to realign the portfolio; however, consideration
                                   should be given to this matter when future purchases are
                                   made to ensure that appropriate diversification is maintained.

                                        496-A.13
SUBJECT:   INVESTMENT   OF PUBLIC FUNDS

                              iv.   As determined on any date that the security is held within the
                                    portfolio. If the credit rating of a security is subsequently
                                    downgraded below the minimum rating level for a new
                                    investment of that security, the Treasurer shall evaluate the
                                    downgrade on a case-by-case basis in order to determine if
                                    the security should be held or sold. The Treasurer will apply
                                    the general objectives of Safety, Liquidity, Yield and
                                    Legality to make the decision. If the County has hired the
                                     services of an Investment Advisor, the Treasurer will act on
                                    the recommendation of the Advisor.

                    B. Performance Indicators:
                       1. The County yields will be compared to the Local Government
                          Investment Pool rates.
                       2. The portfolio will be invested into a predetermined structure that
                             will be measured        against   a selected   benchmark   portfolio.   The
                             structure will be based upon a chosen minimum and maximum
                             effective duration and will have the objective to achieve market rates
                             of returns over long investment horizons. The purpose of the
                             benchmark is to appropriately manage the risk in the portfolio given
                             interest rate cycles. The core portfolio is expected to provide similar
                             returns to the benchmark over interest rate cycles but may
                             underperform or outperform in certain periods. The portfolio will be
                             positioned to first protect principal and then achieve market rates of
                             return. The benchmark used will be the 0-3 year or 0-5 year standard
                             market index and will be calculated monthly and reported to the
                             Board of Commissioners in the monthly investment reports created
                             by the Treasurer.
                        3.   When comparing the performance of the County’s portfolio, all fees
                             and expenses involved with managing the portfolio shall be included
                             in the computation of the portfolio’s rate of return.
                        4.   The mark to market pricing will be calculated monthly and provided
                             in a monthly report.
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

                    The Marion County Treasurer will provide a monthly report to the County
                    Commissioners which provides details of the investment portfolio. This
                    report will be sufficient to document conformance with the provisions of
                    statutes and this investment policy and shall include a listing of individual
                    securities held at the end of the reporting period as per ORS Chapter
                    208.090.

INVESTMENT POLICY ADOPTION

                    These procedures and       any     amendments     to these   procedures   are to be
                    reviewed annually.

                                        496-A.14
SUBJECT:   INVESTMENT   OF PUBLIC FUNDS

                    Adopted:     12/10

                    Revised:     11/11, 09/14

                    Readopted:     6/12, 09/14

                    Revised: 10/23

                    Readopted: 10/23, 2/25, 3/26

                                         496-A.15