SECTION: Health Safety Security POLICY #: 508
TITLE: Employee Exposure Control to
Bloodborne Pathogens
PROCEDURE #: 508-A
 ORDER #:
DEPT: Business Services DIVISION: Risk Management
ADOPTED: 9/92 REVIEWED: 1/96 REVISED: 10/23

PURPOSE:  Limit and control occupational exposure to bloodborne pathogens and other
potentially infectious materials.

AUTHORITY:          The Marion County Board of Commissioners may establish rules and
regulations in reference to managing the interest and business of the county
under ORS 203.010, 203.035 and 203.111.

                                  The Marion County Board of Commissioners expresses the governing
body’s formal, organizational position of fundamental issues or specific
repetitive situations through formally adopted, written policy statements.
                                  The Marion County Administrative Policies and Procedures manual of the
Board of Commissioners outlines the forms and process through which the
board takes official action on administrative policy and is the official
record of county administrative policy.

APPLICABILITY: All employees and volunteers who could reasonably be expected to
encounter potentially infectious materials in the course of their work.

DEFINITIONS:
Bloodborne Pathogens are pathogenic microorganisms that are present in human blood and
can cause disease in humans.  These pathogens include, but are not limited to, hepatitis B virus
(HBV) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
Occupational Exposure means reasonably anticipated skin, eye, mucous membrane or
parenteral contact with blood or other potentially infectious materials that may result from the
performance of an employee's duties.
GENERAL POLICY:

Under this policy, departments with a potential for occupational exposures are required to
develop a written exposure control plan designed to minimize or eliminate occupational
exposure.  This plan should comply with Administrative Procedures in 508-A, which are
intended to guide departments in developing an Exposure Control Plan for bloodborne
pathogens specific to their department.  An Exposure Control Plan is meant to eliminate or
minimize employee exposure to blood or other potentially infectious materials and to
comply with the requirements of OSHA standard 29 CFR 1910.1030, Bloodborne
Pathogens.
ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES

Marion County understands there is a strong link between active safety and health
programs and low rates of occupational injuries and illnesses. Through effective health and
safety policies and procedures, Marion County seeks to keep employees safe.

Adopted: 9/92, 10/23
Reviewed: 1/96, 9/23