502. 1
ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
SECTION: Healthy, Safety and Security POLICY #: 502
TITLE: Driving on County Business PROCEDURE #: 502-A
ORDER #: 22-028
DEPT: Business Services DIVISION: Risk Management
ADOPTED: 1/86 REVIEWED 03/22 REVISED: 03/22
PURPOSE: The purpose of this policy is to maximize the safety of drivers, passengers
and the public when vehicles are driven on county business.
AUTHORITY: The Marion County Board of Commissioners may establish rules and
regulations in reference to managing the interest and business of the county
under ORS 203.010, 203.035, 203.111, and 203.230.
APPLICABILITY: This policy applies to all county elected officials, employees, and
volunteers who drive county owned or personal vehicles on county
business.
Should any provisions of this policy conflict with the vehicle operations
standards for sworn law enforcement employees of the Marion County
Sheriff’s Office, then the provisions of the Sheriff’s policies and
procedures shall prevail.
GENERAL POLICY: It is the policy of Marion County that any person who drives a vehicle while
performing county business is qualified to drive under Oregon motor vehicle
laws and have a demonstrated ability to operate a motor vehicle in a safe and
responsible manner.
Employees and volunteers are encouraged when practical, to consider
alternatives to driving, such as carpooling, and phone or video conferencing.
Drivers are also encouraged, when practical to use a fleet vehicle that provides
the best fuel economy.
This policy applies to the operation of motor vehicles and is not intended to
cover the operation of off-road equipment or machinery that does not require a
driver license to operate.

502. 2
DEFINITIONS:

1.  Acceptable Driving Record - An individual’s driving history that is within the
acceptable range of points as listed in Appendix A
2.  County vehicle - A vehicle that is owned or leased by Marion County.
3.  Discretionary driver - An employee or volunteer whose job does not include driving  as
an essential job function, but chooses to drive on county business.
4.  Driving on county business - Driving in a county or personal vehicle for any county
sanctioned task performed within the scope of a driver’s assigned duties, including, brief
errands.
5.  Personal vehicle - A vehicle not owned, leased, or maintained by Marion County.
6.  Qualified driver- An employee or volunteer who meets the requirements to drive on
Marion County Business according to this policy .
7.  Required driver- An employee or volunteer whose job includes driving as an essential
job function.
8.  Volunteer- Any person who donates approved service to Marion County without pay or
reimbursement from Marion County other than approved incidental expenses or stipend
for services rendered.
POLICY GUIDELINES:
1.  RESPONSIBILITIES
1.1.  Department heads and elected officials are responsible for enforcing this policy and
ensure that all operators of vehicles in their respective department have fulfilled the
requirements of this policy.
1.2.  Supervisors and managers will ensure that anyone who operates a vehicle on
county business is notified of the requirements contained in this policy and
corresponding procedures.
1.3.  Marion County Risk Management is responsible for monitoring driving records of
individuals who drive for county business.
1.4.  Marion County Risk Management provides  training resources for safe driving.
1.5.  Drivers must comply with all applicable laws, parking regulations, and county
policies and procedures.
1.6.  A driver whose license has been suspended, revoked, or any other change that affects
the person’s driving status must immediately notify their supervisor.
1.7.  Drivers are held responsible for all traffic citations, parking tickets, or fines incurred
while driving on county business.

502. 3
2.  SAFETY
2.1.  Oregon law requires all motor vehicle operators and passengers be properly
secured with a safety belt or safety harness, child-restraining devices, or booster
seats as required based on a child’s weight, height, and age.
2.2.  Consumption of alcoholic beverages or a controlled substance while operating a
motor vehicle on county business is prohibited.
2.3.  Drivers may not operate a motor vehicle while using medication that may impair
their ability to safely operate a motor vehicle. Drivers taking such medications must
notify their supervisors.
2.4.  Making or receiving phone calls, sending, or receiving text messages, email or other
similar activities are prohibited while operating a motor vehicle. This prohibition
does not apply to operators of Marion County Sheriff’s Office patrol vehicles that
are equipped with mobile data systems. Marion County Sheriff’s Office policy will
apply.
2.5.  Marion County discourages making or receiving phone calls when on a hands-free
device, except in an emergency situation.
2.6.  Marion County owned or leased vehicles will not be relinquished to a non-county
driver except in the case of an emergency.
2.7.  When exiting a vehicle, drivers are required to turn off the engine, remove the key
and lock the vehicle.
3.  QUALIFICATIONS FOR DRIVING ON COUNTY BUSINESS
3.1.  To be considered a qualified driver, Marion County employees, and volunteers must:
3.1.1.  Be at least 18 years of age.
3.1.2.  Possess a valid Oregon driver’s license.
3.1.3.  Maintain an acceptable driving record as determined using the weighted
point system in Appendix A.
• Both on and off-the-job traffic infractions are used in determining a
driver’s points.
3.1.4.  Employees who receive an unacceptable rating, based upon their driving
record, are not qualified drivers and are not allowed to drive on county
business.
3.2.  Applicants for positions that include driving as an essential function:
3.2.1.  Be at least 18 years of age.
3.2.2.  Possess a valid driver’s license
3.2.3.  Possess an acceptable driving record for the past 60 months.
• Applicants with less than 60 months driving history must have at least 24
months driving history and 12 points or less based on the scoring system in
Appendix A.
• Driving records will be assessed during the background check process.
• Applicants with an out-of-state license must provide, upon request, and at
their own expense a certified copy of their out-of-state driving record.

502. 4
3.2.4.  Applicants found to have an invalid or unacceptable driving record will be
removed from consideration for positions that require driving as an essential
function.

4.  COUNTY VEHICLES
4.1.  Personal use of county vehicles is prohibited, except for incidental use as follows:
4.1.1.  Stops for meal or restroom breaks during business
4.1.2.  Short and infrequent stops of a personal nature that are in the route of
travel for county business and are accomplished during a normal break.
4.2.  The use of a county vehicle is prohibited in all instances where it could reasonably
expose the county to the public perception of misuse or abuse of driving privileges.
Such uses include but are not limited to stops at a liquor store, a bar or tavern,
marijuana retailer, an adult bookstore, or a gambling establishment, unless the stop
is required as part of the job assignment.
4.3.  County vehicles are not allowed to be taken home overnight unless it is a job
requirement.
4.4.  Drivers are prohibited from modifying or altering county vehicles.  County
vehicles will not be modified for non-county business purposes.
4.4.1.  Marion County will not install Ignition Interlocking Devices (IID) on its vehicles
or sign an Employer Ignition Interlock Device Exemption form.  Therefore, for
purposes of this policy, should any operator who is required to drive a Marion
County vehicle receive a work permit or hardship license with an IID
requirement, it shall be deemed invalid for the purposes of driving on Marion
County business.
5.  PERSONAL VEHICLES
5.1.  Use of personal vehicles to conduct county business is permitted when authorized by
a department head, elected official, or their designee. Departments must establish a
process using Attachment A in Procedure 502-A to document that the authorization
has been granted and that automobile liability insurance is in place to cover the
vehicle.
5.2.  A personal vehicle used for county business must be a mechanically safe
conventional four-wheel, motor vehicle that is licensed to operate on public
roadways. Vehicle equipment must conform to Oregon requirements.
5.3.  Oregon law (ORS 860.010) requires all vehicle owners to carry valid and current
automobile insurance on their vehicles. Use of personal vehicles for official county
business in violation of the mandatory automobile insurance laws is considered a
deliberate and willful disregard for statutory requirements. The Oregon Tort Claims
Act allows the county to exclude coverage in such cases.
5.4.  The employee’s personal vehicle insurance is primary with respect to bodily injury
and property damage when driving a personal vehicle. The county defends and
investigates all claims or actions against the county, its employees or individuals
driving on county business, unless the claim arises out of an alleged act or omission

502. 5
occurring in the performance of county duties because of malfeasance in office,
willful or deliberate neglect of duty and when all applicable underlying coverages
have been exhausted by payment or settlement of judgments. The county’s self-
insurance applies only as excess to statutory limits for bodily injury and property
damage, or the aggregate of all the other applicable insurance limits, whichever is
greater.
5.5.  Mileage reimbursement for use of personal vehicles is considered full payment
(including depreciation, insurance, maintenance, and operating costs) for its use.
Mileage reimbursement rates are established by the Marion County Finance
Department and are based on the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) reimbursement
rate.
6.  ASSIGMENT OF VEHICLES
6.1.  Department heads, elected officials or their designee may assign county vehicles to
designated employees only to conduct county business, and to maintain the ability to
respond to county business outside the normal work hours when special equipment or
tools are available in or on the vehicle. Use of county vehicles to commute to and
from work, except as stated above, is prohibited. County vehicles may not be
assigned to drivers who are not county employees.
6.2.  County employees who are assigned a county vehicle may use the vehicle with
prior approval of their supervisor during regular duty hours for medical
appointments and meals when the employee is on call and may need to leave an
appointment or meal to respond to a work assignment.
6.3.  County employees may not lend county vehicles to other persons, and county
employees may not carry passengers except on county business.
6.4.  Vehicle assignments may be withdrawn at any time for any reason, including
but not limited to the following:
6.4.1.  Violation of this policy
6.4.2.  Failure to meet the driver qualifications
6.4.3.  Operating county vehicle in violation of the law
6.4.4.  Conduct in connection with use of the county vehicle that is not in the best
interest of Marion County, or
6.4.5.  Use of county vehicle no longer benefits Marion County.
6.5.  County departments must prepare a written annual report identifying which employees
are authorized to use county vehicles for commuting. This report must be submitted to
the payroll supervisor in the Finance Department on or before July 1st of each year.
Employees who are authorized to use county owned vehicles for commuting may be
responsible for paying income tax on the personal use of the vehicle.

502. 6

7.  OUT OF STATE TRAVEL
7.1.  Using a county vehicle for out-of-state travel is prohibited except in the following
situations with prior approval by Marion County’s Risk Manager:
7.1.1.  Patrol cars engaged in a pursuit (prior notification not required)
7.1.2.  Marked vehicles attending a ceremonial event
7.1.3.  Vehicles used for the transfer of persons in custody
7.1.4.  Road maintenance equipment as part of a mutual aid agreement
7.1.5.  When specialized repair or maintenance is required at an out-of-state location, or
7.1.6.  Distance traveled out of state is less than 100 miles one way and does not
involve an overnight stay.

8.  RIDE-A-LONG PROGRAM
Subject to prior authorization from a department head, elected official or their designee; Ride-A-
Long or job shadowing programs involve non-employees accompanying an employee in a county
or personal vehicle while the employee conducts county business. Non-employees may include
family members as well as members of the public.

9.  PASSENGERS
Only authorized passengers are allowed to ride in county vehicles. Authorized passengers are:
9.1.  County employees conducting county business
9.2.  Officers and agents representing the county
9.3.  Volunteers acting on behalf of the county
9.4.  Vendors and contractors working on behalf of the county
9.5.  Participants or clients in county business and programs
9.6.  Representatives of other governmental agencies working with the county
9.7.  Anyone with prior specific authorization by the appropriate department head,
elected Official or designee
9.8.  Ride-A-Long participants who have completed the required ride-along application.

502. 7
10.  ANIMALS
Transportation of animals is prohibited except for the following:
10.1.  Live animals are permitted to be transported in sheriff’s office vehicles as
necessary during the conduct of business.
10.2.  Animals are permitted to be transported in animal control vehicles in
specialized containment structures.
10.3.  Deceased animals are permitted to be transported in vans, trucks, and trailers for the
purpose of disposal of animal remains consistent with established county standards.
10.4.  Service dogs are permitted as part of an approved accommodation under the
Americans with Disabilities Act.
11.  VIOLATION OF POLICY
Violating the driving policy or misconduct involving the use of a motor vehicle may be grounds
for disciplinary action up to and including termination.

12.  PERIODIC REVIEW
Marion County Business Services will review and update this policy and corresponding
procedures every three years or more frequently if necessary.

ATTACHMENTS

Appendix A: Driver Qualification Point System

Adopted:  1/86

Revised: 1/96

502. 8

502. 9

Appendix A

Driver Qualification Point System

TYPE OF OFFENSE  POINTS
Felony or Misdemeanor
Convictions within previous 60 months  35
Diversion Agreement
Within previous 60 months  of the  ending date  of the diversion agreement  30
License Suspension or Revocation
Within previous 60 months  of the  ending date  of the suspension or revocation  15
Class "A" Conviction
Convictions within previous 36 months  of date of conviction  20
Convictions within previous 36 -60 months  of date of conviction  15
Class "B" Conviction
Convictions within previous 12 months  of date of conviction  12
Convictions within previous 12 -36 months  of date of conviction  10
Class "C" Conviction
Convictions within previous 12 months  of date of conviction  10
Convictions within previous 12 -36 months  of date of conviction  8
Class "D" Conviction
Convictions within previous 12 months  of date of conviction  8
Convictions within previous 12 -36 months  of date of conviction  6

Point totals for applicants and new volunteers for driving positions may not exceed 35.
Point totals for current employees:
0 - 35: Acceptable
36 - 45: Probationary- may continue to drive follow ing required tasks listed in procedures
46 and Over: Unacceptable

EXAMPLES OF VIOLATIONS LISTED BY CLASSIFICATION

1.  CLASS “A” VIOLATION
1.1.  Failure to obey a traffic flagger
1.2.  Driving while suspended (violation)
1.3.  Careless driving (accident involved)
1.4.  Speed racing
1.5.  Speeding (30+ MPH over posted limit)
1.6.  Failure to stop for a school bus

2.  CLASS “B” VIOLATION
2.1.  Passing in a no pass zone
2.2.  Failure to drive on right side of the road
2.3.  No operator’s license

502. 10
2.4.  Careless driving (no accident involved)
2.5.  Failure to obey a traffic control device
2.6.  Speeding (21-30 MPH over posted limit)
2.7.  Driving uninsured
3.  CLASS “C” VIOLATION
3.1.  Failure to use traction devices
3.2.  Defective headlights
3.3.  Illegal U-turn
3.4.  Failure to yield to pedestrian in crosswalk
3.5.  Speeding (11-20 MPH over the limit)

4.  CLASS “D” VIOLATION
4.1.  Impeding the flow of traffic
4.2.   Failure to signal lane change
4.3.  Failure to display license plates
4.4.  Speeding (1-10 MPH over the limit)
4.5.  Failure to use safety belts
4.6.  Failure to change information on driver’s license

5.  Notwithstanding the violations listed above, Oregon  law provides that if the speed limit is 65 miles p er
hour and:
5.1.1.  The driver is exceeding 65 miles per hour but not e xceeding 75 miles per hour, the offense is
a Class “C” traffic violation.
5.1.2.  The driver is exceeding 75 miles per hour but not e xceeding 85 miles per hour, the offense is
a Class B traffic violation.
5.1.3.  The driver is exceeding 85 miles per hour, the offense is a Class A traffic violation.