211.1
ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES

SECTION: General Administration POLICY #: 211
TITLE: PROCEDURE #: 211-A

Customer Service Program

ORDER #: 07-11
DEPT: Board of Commissioners DIVISION: N/A
ADOPTED: 1/07 REVIEWED: 12/12 REVISED:

PURPOSE: Provide a philosophy and standards to create a uniform countywide
customer service program.

AUTHORITY: The Marion County Board of Commissioners may establish rules and
regulations in reference to managing the interest and business of the county
under ORS 203.010, 203.035 and 203.111.

The Marion County Board of Commissioners expresses the governing
body’s formal, organizational position of fundamental issues or specific
repetitive situations through formally adopted, written policy statements.
The policy statements serve as guides to decision making for both elected
and appointed officials on the conduct of county business.

The Administrative Policies and Procedures Manual of the Board of
Commissioners outlines the forms and process through which the board
takes official action on administrative policy, and is the official record of
county administrative policy.

APPLICABILITY: All County Departments and Employees

GENERAL POLICY: To deliver quality products and services in a timely, feasible, and cost-
effective manner, which meet our customers' expectations, through well-
defined customer service program standards and training that support
county values and assist members in program implementation.

POLICY GUIDELINES: The components outlined below will assist the county in furthering our
customer service program. More detail for each component will be included
in an implementation plan, to further clarify and to assist both customers
and employees and volunteers to understand and carry out our programs.

211.2
1. Value Statements :  To assure a successful customer service program that is responsive to
customers needs, Marion County has established these values to guide our service and product
delivery:

1.1. Treat customers (both internal and external) professionally with dignity, honesty, courtesy,
humility, respect, and fairness.

1.2. Seek to understand through active and objective listening.

1.3. Respond in a timely, efficient and responsible manner.

1.4. Respond with accurate, complete, and understandable information.

1.5. Be open and collaborate when problem solving.

1.6. Provide seamless services and programs.

1.7. Continue to improve services through soliciting feedback.

1.8. Employ well-trained, knowledgeable staff and empower them to remove barriers.

1.9. Provide customers with good value for the dollar.

1.10. Use resources (people, time, assets, and funds) efficiently and effectively.

1.11. Acknowledge excellence in service.

1.12. Hold employees and volunteers accountable to service standards.

1.13. Employ appropriate technology to make information accessible and enhance service
delivery.

2. Definitions
:  (For the purposes of the county program)

2.1. Customers:   any group, organization or individual who receives a product or service from
the county. Customers may be internal (employees and volunteers) or external (those
outside of county government).

2.2. Customer Service:   the process of delivering efficient, fair, cost effective and satisfying
products and services with the goal of meeting the customer's needs.

2.3. Product:   anything that is produced as the result of labor or thought.

2.4. Service :  the activity of providing a product, assistance or information to a customer.

211.3
3. Program Components :  An effective customer service program consists of several components.
The following are those that have been identified for inclusion in our program.

3.1. Service Standards:   Service Standards are established behaviors, expectations, targets,
and goals that support excellence in providing service and products to our customers. The
county has determined certain standards are desirable and necessary to define our program.
These standards are established for all employees and volunteers and focus on key areas.
The following describes these key areas and the attached implementation plan provides
details on what each standard is and how it is to be implemented.

3.1.1. Accessibility:  To meet customers' needs, products and services must be both
accessible and easy to find. To assure accessibility, standards for location of
services, time of operation, how services are provided, and member availability
will be defined. The county is committed to providing customers with various
practical mechanisms to facilitate access to our services and information how to
receive them.

3.1.2. Timeliness of Response:  The delivery of products and services are often time
sensitive and customers may have deadlines to meet. To assist customers in
meeting deadlines, clear response times are necessary.

3.1.3. Conduct:  The key to delivering quality customer service is in the attitude that
employees and volunteers exhibit when interacting with customers. Specific
behavioral standards are necessary to assist employees and volunteers in providing
consistent and positive service.

3.1.4. Quality:  The quality of products and services is critical to our customers. These
will adhere to the individual departments' quality standards and specifications to
assure consistency, performance and safety where applicable. Services, whether
presented in person or in written correspondence, should be timely, accurate and
presented in a clear, concise, and understandable manner.

3.1.5. Resolution:  It is important that employees and volunteers strive to meet the
customers' expectations with an emphasis on what we can do to resolve the
customer's issues. County products and services are provided to customers who
request them as well as those we are required to provide due to health, safety or
legal reasons.

Regardless, customers expect these products and services to meet their needs by
being high quality and delivered in a timely, fair, and complete manner. It is the
county's expectation that this will be accomplished. However, there will
occasionally be times when this is not the case and the customers feel that they
have not received the expected results or a resolution. For those customers whom
we have not been able to satisfy through all other means, a customer complaint
process will be established.

211.4
3.2. Accountability:   Standards alone will not assure the success of a program. The county, at
all levels, must hold employees and volunteers accountable by providing feedback and
periodic monitoring of individuals and department compliance with our service standards.
Minimally this should be provided to employees and volunteers during their annual
evaluations and through annual department surveys.

3.3. Communication:   Communications with customers are key in providing an effective and
successful program. It allows us to understand the customers' expectations and perceptions,
while at the same time ensuring our products and services are consistent and as we
represent them to be.

3.4. Surveys:   Customer satisfaction information is needed to continuously improve the way
we serve our customers and meet their needs and expectations. Conducting surveys gives
us a way to gather this information. Once analyzed, the data can serve as a significant
catalyst for innovation and improvement to increase customer satisfaction. Each county
department, in conjunction with a. countywide plan, will at least biennially conduct a
customer service survey, analyze the data, and publish the results.

3.5. Employee Recognition/Awarding for Excellence in Customer Service:   Rewarding
employees and volunteers for providing excellent customer service is important. When
acknowledged publicly, not only does the service become a model for others, but it also
reinforces the value of the individuals and the jobs that they do.

3.6. Training:   To enhance our customer service program, a strong training program,
conducted frequently and over an extended period, will be provided. Its goal will be to
reinforce the standards and expectations of our program through education.

4.  Periodic Review :  The implementation plan will be developed, reviewed and revised from time to
time by workgroups. The workgroups will be given the responsibility to address specific portions
of the program, develop recommendations, work with the affected departments, and draft language
for inclusion into the implementation plan.

Adopted:  1/07

Reviewed:    12/12