909.1
ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES

SECTION: 900 – Purchasing POLICY #: 909
TITLE: Establishment and Use of Procurement Cards PROCEDURE #: 909-A
  ORDER #: 17-059
DEPT: Finance DIVISION:
ADOPTED: 10/08 REVIEWED: 10/16 REVISED: 04/17

PURPOSE: To establish public contracting and purchasing rules and regulations for the
use of procurement cards in Marion County.

AUTHORITY: The Marion County Board of Commissioners may establish rules and
regulations in reference to managing the interest and business of the county
under ORS 203.010, 203.035 and 203.111.

The Marion County Board of Commissioners expresses the governing
body’s formal, organizational position of fundamental issues or specific
repetitive situations through formally adopted, written policy statements.
The policy statements serve as guides to decision making for both elected
and appointed officials on the conduct of county business.

The Administrative Policies and Procedures Manual of the Board of
Commissioners outlines the forms and process through which the board
takes official action on administrative policy, and is the official record of
county administrative policy.

Statutory References

Oregon Revised Statutes chapters 279A, 279B, and 279C, together these
chapters constitute Oregon’s Public Contracting Code.
The Oregon Attorney General’s Model Rules identified in OAR Chapter
137, Divisions 46, 47, 48 and 49. The model rules are created for use by all
public contracting agencies to govern public contracting under the public
contracting code. Local government agencies are required to adopt the
Attorney General’s Model Rules or their own public contracting code.

County References

The Marion County Public Contracting Rules are adopted by the local
Contract Review Board pursuant to authority set forth in ORS
Chapter 279A.  The board adopted rules and opted out of the Model Rules
SUBJECT: ESTABLISHMENT AND USE OF PROCUREMENT CARDS

909.2
by adopting Ordinance No. 1211, and further revised the rules by adopting
Ordinance No. 1256.

The Board of Commissioners has delegated authority for purchasing and
contracting to county departments as outlined in Section 10 of the Marion
County Public Contracting Rules.

Section 50 of the Marion County Public Contracting Rules delegates
authority to the Finance Department to implement and administer the
procurement card program by establishing procedures and standards for use
of procurement cards in Marion County by all County departments.    The
Finance Department shall be responsible for implementation, education and
training, interpretation, coordination, and monitoring the procurement card
program for compliance to adopted policies and procedures.

APPLICABILITY: All county departments.

GENERAL POLICY: This policy, in conjunction with Policy 901 Public Contracting Rules, and
Procedures 901-A establishes a sound and responsive procurement card
program based on public contracting code for the purchase of small dollar
goods and/or services, as defined in the Marion County Public Contracting
Rules, Section 20-0265 Small Procurements required to conduct the
county’s business

POLICY STATEMENTS:

1. The procurement card program established under this policy shall replace existing department
revolving charge cards, corporate VISA/MasterCards, department stores, specialty vendors,
corporate gasoline credit cards/accounts, et al., that currently are in place to conduct county
business by county employees.

2. Purchases made with a county procurement card shall only be for authorized purchase of goods
and/or services required to conduct county business.

3. Purchases and accounting for those purchases made with a county procurement card shall comply
with all applicable federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations, policies and procedures.

4. Elected and appointed department heads shall establish appropriate financial and budgetary
controls regarding the assignment, use and monitoring of the procurement card program within
their departments in compliance with adopted county policies, procedures and standards for this
program.

5. The procurement card program shall promote purchasing efficiency, flexibility and convenience
on small dollar transactions as defined in the Marion County Public Contracting Rules, Section
20-0265 Small Procurements, while reducing the county’s overall costs for procuring goods and
services needed to conduct the county’s business.
SUBJECT: ESTABLISHMENT AND USE OF PROCUREMENT CARDS

909.3

6. Unauthorized use of the procurement card by a county employee and/or family member will be
investigated and appropriate disciplinary actions will be taken, up to and including termination of
employment.

7. Any fraudulent use will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.

POLICY GUIDELINES:

1. Responsibilities:  All Marion County departments shall be subject to this policy.

2. Exceptions:  Exceptions for applying for and use of credit cards outside of the procurement card
program shall be granted by the Marion County Chief Administrative Officer or Deputy
Administrative Officer.

3. Implementation:  The sponsoring department has the authority and responsibility to implement
this policy and assure compliance by county departments.

4. Periodic Review:  Periodic review will be conducted every two (2) years by the Finance
Department.

Adopted: 10/08
Revised: 04/17