403 Policy  1
ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES

SECTION: Financial Management POLICY #: 403
TITLE: Fixed Asset Control PROCEDURE #:
 ORDER #: 99-50
DEPT: Support Services DIVISION:
ADOPTED: 6/92, 5/99 REVIEWED:  REVISED: 2/96, 5/99

1.0 Purpose

This policy establishes policy and procedure for the control of Marion County
fixed assets.

2.0 General Policy

Each department head and elected official will be responsible for the
inventory, tagging and control of all fixed assets in his or her department.

3.0 Policy Guidelines/Procedures

a. Definition of a fixed asset effective Fiscal Year 1998/99:

(1) It is tangible in nature, and

(2) It has a useful life of more than one year, and

(3) Individual units have a significant value (cost is greater than
$5,000).  Individual units of assets with values less than $5,000
may be tagged and placed on the County inventory for control
purposes but would not be assessed value.

(a) The cost of an asset is determined by the purchase price
as stated on the invoice, contract or appraisal.

- For general fixed assets include taxes, freight and
installation costs.
- For land include legal, title and survey fees, escrow
and closing fees, site preparation and demolition costs.
- For buildings include architect, legal and appraiser
fees, escrow and closing fees, insurance and interest
during construction.

403 Policy  2
(b) Salvage value is the amount of money the County can
expect to recover after disposing of an asset at the end of
its useful life.  Property that has a salvage value of less
than $5,000 will be deleted.

(c) The average life of the asset is determined from the
following: (Equipment used in 24 hour operations may
expire in fewer years.)

 ASSET      LIFE YEARS
  Office, shop, department & field equipment   5
  Electronic & Communication equipment    3
 Vehicles:
  Auto        6
  Pickups        6
  Sheriff vehicles      3
  Trucks        10
  Off-road vehicles & road maintenance equipment  10
 Weapons        15
 Buildings        50
 Land improvements       25
 Land         Indefinite

b. Procedures for implementing

(1) The department determines its needs for equipment in the
proposed annual budget.  The value and life of the item
determine the items that are to be placed in the Capital Outlay
category.  Purchases will be made in accounting accounts 53000
through 53299.  Capital expenditures in accounting accounts
53300 through 53999 require the creation of a project through
project accounting.

(2) Material and Services purchases applicable to capitalization will
require the creation of a project through project accounting.

(3) Capital outlay purchases of less than $5,000 applicable to
capitalization will require project accounting.

(4) The budget officer reviews the request and recommends a
budget to the budget committee.

(5) The budget committee holds public hearings on the proposed
budget.  It approves the budget and forwards it to the Board of
Commissioners for adoption.

(6) The Board of Commissioners sets a public hearing to review the
budget and after budget committee approval the Board of
Commissioners formally adopts the budget.

403 Policy  3
(7) When the department's budget is adopted thereby signaling
approval of the requests for fixed assets, the department will
initiate and submit a

purchasing requisition to Purchasing in Business Services
Division of Support Services.  The department will complete the
requisition in accordance with standard procedures including the
required documentation such as contracts or leases.

(8) Purchasing reviews for compliance with purchasing regulations
and authorizes the purchase order in accordance with standard
procedures.

(9) Business Services will issue a series of inventory numbers to
each department.

(10) Upon receipt of the item the department will attach an inventory
number to the item.  Upon implementation of the appropriate
program, the department will determine the value, life
expectancy, category code, location and other data to complete
the fixed asset entry to the inventory data base.  The inventory
data must be included on the request for payment submitted to
Business Services.

(11) Business Services issues the check for payment of the item; the
fixed asset will be added to the inventory through the automated
accounting program.

c. Transfers and Retirements

(1) If the department no longer has use of an asset, it is to be sent
as surplus to Support Services for assignment to another
department or sold through the State of Oregon surplus system.

The surplus process for exempted property will be authorized in
writing by Support Services.  Exempted property may include:

1)   Property received through court ordered forfeiture,
litigation on forfeiture or ordinance and statute
enforcement actions.

2) Property purchased for sale to the public with
special program funds.

3) Property with limited use by other county
departments such as law books, voting and
surveying equipment.

403 Policy  4
(2) If an asset is determined to be of a greater value as a "trade-in"
for the purchase of replacement equipment or vehicle, the
department will request authorization from Support Services
prior to entering into a contract or contractual agreement with
the vendor.

(3) Support Service will authorize the transfer, trade-in or surplus,
coordinate the appropriate action.  Delivery of an item to surplus
or vendor is the responsibility of the department.

Surplus computer and software may be offered to interested
parties as a surplus sale or donated in the following order:
- county departments with related programs
- unrelated county department programs
- Marion/Salem Data Center
- schools relating to county programs
- agencies in agreements with county departments
- nonprofit organizations related to county services
- nonprofit organizations with no relationship to the county

(4) Fleet inventory control for county owned vehicles will be
centralized through Support Services and delegated to Public
Works.  Business Services will give notice to Public Works upon
receipt of a county vehicle.  Public Works will audit the inventory
of county vehicles, manage the redistribution of vehicles and the
sale of surplus vehicles. The value of vehicles may be returned
to the purchasing fund when notice is given at the time the
vehicle is released for redistribution or surplus.  Public Works will
give notice to Property Management in Support Services upon
redistribution or sale of vehicles for inventory control input.

d. Lost or Stolen

(1) If a department is unable to locate an item, or if an item has
been stolen, the department will give written notice to property
management in Support Services.  The notice shall include a
description the effort to locate the item and the determination of
the loss.

(2) Stolen fixed assets should also be reported to the proper
authority and a copy of the report forwarded to property
management in Support Services

403 Policy  5
e. Inventory updates

(1) Assets of a value less than $5,000 will be deleted in preparation
for the transfer of data from the historical data base to the
current fiscal accounting data base and reported in the annual
fiscal report.

(2) The update of future deletions will be accomplished when the
department takes a biannual physical inventory.

f. Physical Inventory

(1) A physical inventory of the departments' assets will be
preformed biennially by June 30. Business Services will forward
current inventory listing to the departments for verification.

(2) Any differences between the inventory listing and the physical
inventory will be reported to the Board of Commissioners, which
will approve or disapprove the disposition of the unreconciled
differences.

Adopted:   6/92
Revised:   2/96
Revised: 12/98
Adopted:   5/99