iments Marion County                                                  ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES

 SECTION:    Health, Safety & Security                                POLICY #:              505

TITLE:       Injured Worker                                           PROCEDURE #:            505-A

                                                                      ORDER #:               08-65

DEPT:        Business Services                                        DIVISION:              Risk Management

ADOPTED:     4/91                   REVIEWED:     03/23               REVISED:               03/23

PURPOSE:                      The purpose of this policy is to establish organizational guidelines
                              regarding the rehabilitation of workers injured while performing assigned
                              duties and to return those workers to productive employment as soon as
                              medically appropriate.

AUTHORITY:                    The Marion County Board of Commissioners may establish rules and
                              regulations in reference to managing the interest and business of the county
                              under ORS 203.010, 203.035 and 203.111.

                              The Marion County Board of Commissioners expresses the governing
                              body’s formal, organizational position of fundamental issues or specific
                              repetitive situations through formally adopted, written policy statements.
                              The policy statements serve as guides to decision making for both elected
                              and appointed officials on the conduct of county business.

                              The Marion County Administrative Policies and Procedures manual of the
                              Board of Commissioners outlines the forms and process through which the
                              board takes official action on administrative policy and is the official record
                              of county administrative policy.

APPLICABILITY:                For workers’ compensation benefits, this policy applies to:

                               1.     Regular, trial service and temporary employees
                              2       Sheriff reserve deputies in the enforcement and corrections divisions
                              3a      Sheriff cadets
                              4.      Marion County Search and Rescue volunteers while under the direc-
                                      tion and control of the Sheriff's   Office,     including Crew     18, Jeep
                                      Patrol, Posse, Search and Rescue Communications (SARCOM),
                                      Special Vehicle Unit, Northwest Search Dogs, and Chuckwagon

                              All volunteers not listed above are covered           under   the Marion    County
                              Volunteer Injury Coverage policy #514.

                                                   505.1
SUBJECT:      INJURED WORKER

GENERAL POLICY:            Marion County shall provide workers' compensation insurance as required
                           by state law. Employees who file a claim for workers' compensation shall
                           be provided all benefits and rights in accordance with ORS Chapters 656
                           and 659A and OAR Chapter 436, and nothing in this policy is intended to
                           diminish those benefits and rights. It is the policy of Marion County to:

                           iP     Return injured workers to good health and productive employment
                                  at the earliest medically appropriate opportunity.
                           23     Minimize the impact of workers’ compensation benefits on the
                                  county’s self-funded insurance program by managing claim-related
                                  costs.
                           3      Develop   temporary modified positions for injured workers    in all
                                  county departments.
                           4.     Comply with State of Oregon Workers’ Compensation and Bureau
                                  of Labor and Industries laws.
                           Si     Provide consistent countywide guidelines for managers, supervisors,
                                  and employees on the coordination of workers’ compensation
                                  claims.
                           6.     Maintain effective communications with employees, physicians,
                                  departments, and the claims administrator to promote fair and cost-
                                  effective claims management.

POLICY GUIDELINES:

1.   Implementation:

     Risk Management will implement this policy and recommend revisions as necessary.

2.   Exceptions:

      Any exceptions to this policy and corresponding procedures must be approved by Risk Manage-
      ment.

3,   Periodic Review:

     Risk Management will periodically review this policy and the corresponding procedures to ensure
     compliance with applicable laws and rules.

     Adopted:      4/9]

     Revised:       5/08

     Revised:      03/23-BS: TG

                                               505.2