904 Policy
ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES

SECTION: Purchasing POLICY #: 904
TITLE: Issuance of an Advance to an Employee or
Vendor
PROCEDURE #:
 ORDER #: 96-11
DEPT: Fiscal Services DIVISION:
ADOPTED: 4/84 REVIEWED:  REVISED: 1/96

1.0 Purpose

This policy and procedure sets forth the rules and guidelines for the issuance of an
advance to an employee or vendor.

2.0 General Policy

There are times when it is necessary to issue an advance to an employee or vendor
prior to receipt of evidence of an expenditure of appropriated funds.  The following
would be considered advances and are described in this policy.

a. Salary Draw

b. Travel Advance

c. Sheriff's office Cash Draws

d. Vendors

3.0 Policy Guidelines/Procedures

a. Salary Draw

Employees of Marion County may request one advance against their earnings
for a given month.  The maximum amount of the advance cannot exceed 75%
of the employee's wages earned on the day the advance is issued. The
advance must be requested prior to the 24th day of the month.

 b. Salary Draft Implementation Procedure

To obtain a salary draw, an employee must complete a Salary Advance Form.
 This form must then be submitted to the supervisor or departmental payroll
person.  The supervisor or departmental designee, then forwards the form to
the Payroll Section of Fiscal Services.

Payroll will verify that the amount is within policy guide lines (see #3.0 a) and
then complete a Marion County Fund Claim.  The Fund Claim will be given to
the Accounts Payable Section for processing, and a temporary adjustment will
ISSUANCE OF AN ADVANCE TO AN EMPLOYEE OR VENDOR
904 Policy  2
be made to the employee's account to recover the advance when the payroll
is processed.

c. Travel Advance

Marion County employees may obtain a travel advance based on the following
policy guidelines.  All travel advance request forms must be approved by the
Department Head.  Department Head travel advances are subject to approval
by Board of Commissioners.  Budget limitations and those outlined in item 3.0
d below must be met.  Out-of-state travel advance request forms must also
be submitted to the Board fifteen (15) days prior to proposed travel.  Budget
limitations and those outlined in time 3.0 d below must be met.

Requests for advances in excess of the allowed amount require the approval
of the County Administrative Officer as well as the Department Head.
Justification for the exception should be submitted to the Administrative
Officer by the Department Head.

d. Travel Advance Implementation Procedure

If an employee needs a travel advance, a Travel Request Form and Fund
Claim must be prepared indicating the amount of advance needed and what it
covers.  The form must be submitted five (5) working days prior to the time
the check is needed.  The County will advance a per diem of $31.00 per day
for subsistence, plus registration and transportation if paid by the employee.
A Travel Request Form and Fund Claim must be prepared for advance
reservations (requiring deposits) and registration fees in those instances
where the payment is to be made to the hotel or conference.  (The County
pays single room rate.)

A Travel Request Form and Fund Claim must be prepared for transportation if
the employee is using his/her personal vehicle, and when the employee pays
for his/her own transportation.  A copy of the transportation billing should be
submitted with the above mentioned travel request form.

Travel Request Forms and Fund Claims submitted under the above
circumstances must be submitted no later than five (5) working days prior to
the time the funds are needed.  If a check has to be mailed, submit the Travel
Request Form and Fund Claim seven (7) working days prior to the time the
funds are needed.

All funds issued in the above circumstances will be considered as a Salary
Draw to the employee.  The employee must submit proper supporting
documentation with the expense report.

e. Sheriff's Office Cash Draws

There are times when an officer of the Sheriff's Department is involved in an
investigation of criminal activity that requires the use of a flash roll or other
funds to cover expenses involved in the investigation and to protect the
identity of the

officer.  It is County policy to permit this draw provided the following
procedures are completed.
ISSUANCE OF AN ADVANCE TO AN EMPLOYEE OR VENDOR
904 Policy  3

f. Sheriff's Office Cash Draw Implementation Procedure

A Sheriff's Department Cash Advance Request Form must be completely filled
out and signed.

If the amount requested is under $500.00 the Undersheriff may sign the
request.  If the request is over $500.00, the Sheriff's signature is required.

A Fund Claim and a Cash Advance Form must be prepared and marked as an
assignment with the date required and submitted to Fiscal Services for
processing. If the situation requires confidentiality within the Sheriff's Office,
Fiscal Services will prepare and process the Fund Claim upon receipt of a
completed Cash Advance Form.

When the warrant is received by the Sheriff's Office, the office may cash it at
a financial institution.  Arrangements should be made for the financial institu -
tion to hold the warrant until the assignment is completed.

If the advance is a flash roll, or if money is returned, it must be returned to
the financial institution at completion of the assignment.  The warrant should
be obtained and returned to the Sheriff's Office.  The Sheriff's Office shall
properly return the warrant to Fiscal Services.  Any departure from the above
procedure should be reported to and approved by Fiscal Services.

Note: A copy of any cash receipts and an accounting in the funds should be
sent to Fiscal Services.

g. Vendor's Advance

It is Marion County policy that vendor advances are permitted only under
exceptional circumstances.  Such an advance must be approved by the
Department Head.

h. Vendor's Advance Implementation Procedure

Department Heads must submit documentation to Fiscal Services indicating
an advance payment is a requirement of purchase, along with written
justification of the purchase.  The documentation and justification must be
attached to either a Fund Claim or Purchase Order.  Upon receipt of the above
documentation, Fiscal Services will process the advance payment.

Adopted:  4/84
Revised:  1/96