BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON

PROCLAMATION NO. 2024-082

Proclaiming September 2024 as Suicide Prevention Awareness Month in Multnomah
County, Oregon.

The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:

A.   Suicide Prevention Awareness Month is  elevated every September to increase
awareness that prevention efforts save lives. The international theme for Suicide
Prevention Month is “ Changing The Narrative  On Suicide,” and our efforts are
infused with this theme in September and every month of the year.

B. The County’s longstanding investment in suicide pre and postvention services is
an acknowledgment that anyone and everyone may be touched by the traumatic
impacts of suicide or thoughts of suicide - be it through family, friends, or
themselves. It acknowledges suicide impacts our community, and is a public health
crisis.

C. Suicide is an intersectional public health issue. While overall youth suicide rates
decreased in our region, suicide rates for youth of color continue to climb in
Multnomah County and across our state. The LGBTQIA2S+ community is also at
high risk, especia lly those who identify as transgender; they are nearly 12 times
more likely to attempt suicide than the general population.

D. Suicide is the 3rd leading cause of death among people aged 10 -24 and the 11th
leading cause of death overall in the U.S.  Youth impacted by criminal justice
systems, foster care, homelessness, poverty, and abuse have an increased risk of
death by suicide in Multnomah County. Housing, economic stressors, health, and
relationship issues lead to stressors identified for adults aged 25 through
retirement and beyond.

E. Suicide is complex, often with individuals experiencing untreated behavioral health
conditions in addition to social, life, economic, and physical stressors. While the
social disruption and loss of life due to the COVID -19 pandemic have changed in
recent years, residents continue to see impacts from the height of the pandemic,
especially the youngest residents who lost years of social engagement during their
early developmental years. The fabric of children’s lives drastically shifted, in
addition to the on going, complex issues that persist, such as continued systemic
racism, income and housing instability, climate impacts, and fundamental
challenges of daily living. The factors continue to amplify and increase personal
stressors and mental health. Our commu nity is experiencing the impact of
interconnected behavioral health -related crises evidenced by increased crisis
calls, overdose and substance abuse, the impact of fentanyl, and a climb in gun
violence, especially among youth.

F. Compassion fatigue is real;  individuals exposed to extended periods of stress
become desensitized to what they see around them. People may walk by when

they see someone in crisis, accustomed to others’ pain, or simply because they
don’t know how to help. Fear and stigma are real, too, and often interfere with
people giving and seeking help.

G. Despite these challenges, there is hope. Multnomah County has a workfo rce
dedicated to supporting individuals in their healing, facilitating connections, and
providing services well before the prospect of suicide is imminent. Community
partners and school districts are actively engaged in efforts to prevent suicides and
spread effective, practical information about how to help those facing a crisis.

H. The County’s public health approach to suicide prevention addres ses the many
factors across the lifespan that can contribute to suicidal behavior. We are focused
on improving the quality of life in Multnomah County with programs and resources
that help families and children gain access to food, health care, and stable housing,
reduce the traumatic impacts of gun violence, and aid those with substance us e
and other behavioral health disorders find their path toward health and wellness.
This year, Multnomah County’s Health Department will continue and expand our
successful social media campaign, uplifting the power of connection, meaning,
healing, and hope for those impacted by suicide while speaking to the diversity of
our community.

I. Our Behavioral Health Prevention staff offers multiple supports aimed at reducing
suicide and thoughts of suicide, as well as mitigating other behaviors that often
lead to depression and isolation, like gambling disorders. The Get Trained to Help
program offers free training for community members on how to provide immediate
help and ensure the safety of someone in distress.

J. The Multnomah County Behavioral Health Call Center is staffed by professionals
trained to address immediate crises, assess needs to find the right services and
connect clients to a range of appropriate, available resources. The new national
988 number is a n alternative to our Behavioral Health Call Center, offering
assessment and crisis counseling, and resource referrals to individuals and family
or friends helping those in crisis.

K. Multnomah County promotes positive actions that can prevent suicide, including
behavioral and physical health care that is accessible and effective. We support
culturally specific and responsive services that support communities.

L. We recognize that connection is more important than ever now. It builds resilience
and support. Everyday acts of kindness bind us together in community and
kindness, allowing empathy to fill the spaces around us. When we truly pause to
connect, make space for deep conversation, thoughtfully share a meal, or
intentionally reach out to those who need us, we create positive action, and those
actions contribute to healing. Sitting in challenging conversations with open hearts
and kindness removes the shame and stigma interrupting people from seeking
help. Let’s collectively see the humanity in ourselves and each other, hold
compassion for those in crisis, and compassion for those unsure how to help others
in crisis.

M. Suicide prevention is everyone’s business. Anyone can get trained to help  - for
free! Go to www.gettrainedtohelp.com to learn how. If you think an individual is at
risk for suicide, help is available 24/7 by calling the Multnomah County Behavioral
Health Call Center at 403-988-4888 or dial 988 for the national suicide prevention
line.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
September 2024 is proclaimed Suicide Prevention Awareness Month in Multnomah
County, Oregon. All county residents are encouraged to increase awareness of individuals
who may be struggling with challenges in their lives  and “Create Hope Through Positive
Action.” Even the smallest efforts help create hope, and hope helps prevent suicide. There
are resources to help you and those around you.
ADOPTED this 3rd day of October 2024.
SUBMITTED BY: Heather Mirasol, BHD Director
 Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By: