BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
RESOLUTION NO.  2020-047
Adopting the Financial and Budget Policies  to be Used in Fiscal Year 20 21 and Repealing
Resolution 2019-048.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. The Board is the fiscal authority for Multnomah County government.
b. The Department of County Management is responsible for the budget and fiscal
operations of the County.
c. The Chief Financial Officer and Budget Director are responsible for the preparation
and management of the budget and for the management of the financial operations of
the County.
d. Financial and budget policies provide a framework for prudent financial management.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves:
1. The Financial and Budget Policies set forth in Exhibit A are the policies of Multnomah
County.
2. The Chief Financial Officer and Budget Director are directed to administer these Financial
and Budget Policies.
3. The Chief Financial Officer and Budget  Director are directed to review and update these
policies as needed but not less than annually.
4. The Chief Financial Officer and Budget Director are directed to inform the Board on the
status of these policies annually.
5. This Resolution replaces Resolution No. 2019-048.
ADOPTED this 23rd day of June, 2020.
SUBMITTED BY: Christian Elkin, Budget Office Director and Eric Arellano, Chief Financial
Officer, County Management
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Deborah Kafoury, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
FY 2021 Financial Policies

Goals
The goals of the County’s financial policies are:

1. To preserve capital through prudent budgeting and financial management.
2. To achieve the most productive use of County funds that meets the goals of the Board
of County Commissioners.
3. To achieve a stable balance between the County’s ongoing financial commitments and
the continuing revenues available to the County.
4. To leverage local dollars with federal and state funding/grants.
5. To support accountability to the citizens of Multnomah County.

It is the intention of the Multnomah County Board of Commissioners to comply with all federal and
statutory requirements, Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), and Governmental
Accounting Standards Board (GASB) directives (see Multnomah County’s Ordinance No. 1101).

Financial Forecasts for the General Fund
Governments at all levels should forecast major revenues and expenditures. The forecast should
extend at least three to five years beyond the budget period and be regularl y monitored and
updated. It should be clearly stated and available to participants in the budget process, as should
its underlying assumptions and methodology. The forecast should also be referenced in the final
budget document. To improve future forecasting, the variances between previous forecasts and
actual amounts should be analyzed. The variance analysis should identify all factors that influence
revenue collections, expenditure levels, and forecast assumptions.

Policy Statement
The Board of County C ommissioners recognizes the importance of developing a combined
revenue and expenditure forecast. The Budget Office will prepare a five -year financial forecast
for the General Fund to assess the long-term financial implications of current, as well as proposed,
policies and programs. The forecast will detail assumptions regarding both short -term and long-
term financial issues facing the County. Those assumptions will guide the development of
appropriate financial strategies to achieve the goals outlined abov e. The forecast will be
referenced on the County’s website and incorporated in the annual budget document. The
General Fund revenue and expenditure forecast will:

1. Provide an understanding of available funding;
2. Evaluate financial risk;
3. Assess the likelihood that services can be sustained;
4. Assess the level at which capital investment can be made;
5. Identify future commitments and resource demands;
6. Identify the key variables that might change the level of revenue; and
7. Identify one-time-only resources and recommend appropriate uses.

Status
The Budget Office presented the General Fund Forecast to the Board of County Commissioners
on November 7, 2019 and presented a forecast update on March 1 0, 2020. In response to the
economic impacts from COVID-19 the Budget Office presented an updated forecast on May 12,
2020.

Tax Revenues
The Oregon Constitution, State statutes and the County Code provide Multnomah County with
the ability to raise revenue through taxation. The County currently uses the following taxes:

1. Property Taxes are governed by state statute and the Oregon Constitution and are levied for
the following purposes:

● A “Permanent Rate” is available for general uses, that is set at $4.34 per $1,000 of
assessed value;

● A “Local Option Levy” to support operations of the Oregon Historical Society that is set at
$0.05 per $1,000 of assessed value.

2. Business Income Tax is set at 2.00% of net business income generated in Multnomah County.
This tax is authorized by County Code, Chapter 12.

3. Motor Vehicle Rental Tax is set at 17% of the value of rental fees. The first 14.5% is available
for uses that are consistent with Art. IX, §  3A, of the Oregon Constitution . The remaining 2.5%
supports regional tourism activities under an agreement with the City of Portland and Metro. This
tax is authorized by County Code, Chapter 11.

4. Transient Lodging Tax is set at 11.5% of the room rent charged by hotel operators. Nearly all
the County ’s proceeds from this tax are used to support regional t ourism activities under
agreements with the City of Portland and Metro. This tax is authorized by County Code, Chapter
11.

5. Motor Vehicle Fuel Tax is set at 3 cents per gallon of gasoline (or diesel) sold in Multnomah
County. Art. IX, §  3A, of the Orego n Constitution restricts use of t he proceeds of this tax to
transportation programs. This revenue is shared by Multnomah County and the cities of Portland,
Gresham, Troutdale, and Fairview. This tax is authorized by County Code, Chapter 11.

Policy Statement
The Board recognizes that taxation is necessary to provide public services to the citizens of the
County. When considering changes to the County’s tax structure, the Board will consider:

• The ability of taxpayers to pay the taxes;
• The impact of taxes imposed by the County on other local governments;
• The effect of taxes on the County economy;
• The administrative and collection costs of the taxes; and
• The ease with which the taxes can be understood by taxpayers.

State statutes allow the County to levy “local option” taxes that are not allowed to exceed five
years. It is the intent of the Board to use this short -term revenue source to fund priority service
programs only after all other sources of revenue have been analyzed and have been determined
not to be feasible.

All decisions to levy taxes are made in an atmosphere of intense public and internal debate,
particularly with regard to the progressivity of the tax, its administrative cost, its impact on the
regional economy, its effect on  other local governments, and the degree to which the tax might
be acceptable to the public.

Status
The County’s tax revenues represent about 39% of the total Governmental Fund Type revenues
(General and Special Revenue Funds). The following graphs depict actual tax revenue by source
($ in thousands).  On March 19th 2020 the Board of County Commissioners voted to increase the
Business Income Tax rate from 1.45% to 2.00% beginning with tax year 2020.

 $-
 $15,000
 $30,000
 $45,000
 $60,000
 $75,000
 $90,000
 $105,000
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
In Thousands
Other Tax Revenue By Source
Business Income Tax
Excise Taxes
Gas Taxes
Other Tax Revenue 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Business Income Tax 73,825$      80,710$      84,450$       93,400$      99,500$
Excise Taxes 60,413$      67,434$      69,116$       69,855$      77,602$
Gas Taxes 6,779$       7,160$        7,047$        6,970$        6,883$
Total Other Tax Revenues 141,017$  155,304$   160,613$   170,225$   183,985$

Federal/State Grant and Foundation Revenues

Grants and foundation funds are used, and provide significant leverage, to support an array of
County services. All of these revenues are restricted to a specific purpose, such as health and
social services or public safety. Reimbursements made to the Cou nty as a result of leveraging
outside resources are considered to be unrestricted General Fund revenue unless the spending
is specifically detailed by Grantor or Foundation.

Policy Statement
The Board understands that grants and private sources present opportunities and risks. They
allow the County to provide basic or enhanced levels of service and to cover gaps in services, but
they may also commit the County to serving larger or different groups of clients which would put
pressure on County generated revenues if the grant were withdrawn. When applying for a grant,
the Board will consider:

1. Whether the funds are aligned with the County’s mission and goals.
2. Opportunities for leveraging other funds to continue the program.
3. The amount of locally generated revenue required to supplement the revenue source.
4. Whether the revenue will cover the full cost of the proposed program, or whether the
County is expected to provide program support and administrative overhead. It is the intent
of the County to recover all costs related to grant and foundation revenues.
5. The degree of stability of the funding source.
6. Whether decline or withdrawal of the revenue creates an expectation that the County will
continue the program.
 $150,000
 $175,000
 $200,000
 $225,000
 $250,000
 $275,000
 $300,000
 $325,000
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
In Thousands
Property Tax Revenue
Debt Service Levy
Local Option Levy (OHS)
Permanent Rate
Property Tax Revenue 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Permanent Rate 253,126$    267,597$     280,241$     299,408$     303,560$
Local Option Levy (OHS) 2,001$       2,325$        2,822$        3,108$        3,260$
Debt Service Levy 6,116$       6,075$        108$           -$           -$
Total Property Taxes 261,243$  275,997$   283,171$   302,516$   306,820$
7. How County programs can maximize revenue support from state or federal sources.
8. Whether the funds are used for pilot or model programs and will result in a more efficient
and/or effective way of doing business.

Departments will provide the Board with a notice of intent (NOI) before applying for grant funding
(see Administrative Procedure BCC -1). The Board requires the resources to be used in
accordance with any stipulated restrictions and prior to using unrestricted revenues including
General Fund appropriations for the same program or purpose. Money (or goods) donated to the
County for a specific program or purpose are considered to be restricted resources and not
subject to this policy.

Federal grants will be governed by a written Grant Management Manual. The Manual will cover
all the items addressed in the Uniform Administrative Guidelines (Chapters I and II, Part 200
Uniform Guidance, Cost Principles and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards). The Manual will
be approved annually by the Chief Financial Officer  and will include any applicable updates
resulting from changes in federal standards.

Status
The County is in compliance with this policy.

Recovery of Indirect Costs
The federal government recognizes identifiable overhead costs are incurred in providing services
to support grants and contracts. Therefore, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB)
establishes principles and standards to provide a uniform approach for determining costs and to
promote effective program delivery, efficiency and better relationships between governmental
units and the federal government. The County’s indirect cost allocation plan is prepared annually
in accordance with Chapters I and II, part 200 in the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost
Principles and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards as published in the Federal Register on
December 26, 2013, or commonly referred to as “Uniform Grant Guidance”.

Policy Statement
It is the policy of the Board to recover from dedicated revenue sources the full cost of programs
supported by those sources.

The exception to the above policy occurs when the grantor agency does not allow the grantee to
charge indirect costs or allows only a fixed amount or a maximu m indirect cost rate. The Board
will have the final authority to accept a grant that does not allow the recovery of all or part of
indirect costs. In that event, the General Fund will absorb any indirect cost attributable to the
program.

Status
The County updates the plan annually and the Chief Financial Officer certifies the accuracy of its
indirect cost rate proposal and cost allocation plan. For further information, see the Finance Cost
Allocation Plans website at https://multco.us/finance/cost-allocation-plans.

Use of One-Time-Only Funds
Unrestricted one -time-only resources present organizations with temptations that are hard to
resist. In the short run it appears more beneficial to allocate such resources to the highest priority
public service that would otherwise be unfunded than to restrict them to costs associated with
one-time needs and those that will not recur in following years. However, the result of this practice
is to expand operational levels and public expectations beyond the cap acity of the organization
to generate continuing funding. This inevitably produces shortfalls and crises. Sustaining an
ongoing program level by deferring necessary expenditures or by incurring future obligations also
inevitably produces shortfalls and crises.

Policy Statement
It is the policy of the Board that the County will fund ongoing programs with ongoing revenues,
and to restrict the allocation of one-time revenues to nonrecurring expenditures.

Examples of one time revenues include:

• Proceeds on the sale of capital assets
• Business Income Taxes collected in excess of budgeted revenues
• General Fund ending fund balance in excess of budgeted balance

As the endi ng balance in the General Fund i s typically the largest source of one -time only
resources, it is the policy of the Board that departments may not propose to carryover
appropriations from one year to the next.

When the County budgets unrestricted one -time-only resources, the Board will first set these
funds aside for reserves. If reserve requirements have been met one-time only resources can be
allocated to projects or programs that will not require future financial commitments. The Board
will consider the following when allocating these one-time-only resources:

1. After fully funding reserves as established by policy, 50% of any remaining one-time only
resources will be allocated to the capitalization, or recapitalization, of major County
facilities projects.
2. One-time only spending proposals for projects or pilot programs, particularly investments
that may result in innovative ideas or technology, long-term efficiencies or savings that do
not require ongoing support.
3. Bridge or gap financing for exiting programs for a finite period of time.

Status
During budget deliberations the Budget Director is responsible for providing a list of sources and
uses of one-time-only funds and informing the Chair and the Board on the recommended use of
the funds received. With this information, the Board is able to appropriate and direct one -time-
only resources to infrequent and unique expenditures in an effort to achieve compliance with this
policy.

In the current year 50% of remaining one-time-only resources after fully funding reserves will not
be allocated to the capitalization or recapitalization of facilities projects. Resources will be used
to support the estimated budgetary gaps created by COVID-19 in fiscal year 2021.

User Fees, Sales, and Service Charges
State and local governments use charges and fees to fund the provision of goods and service s.
Charges are voluntary payments that are used to finance traditional governmental services. A fee
is imposed as a result of a public need to regulate activities, typically related to health, safety or
other protective purposes. Fees result in the purchas e of a privilege or authorization and are
applied to such activities as restaurant inspections, building permits and marriage licenses.

User fees are generally intended to cover all the costs or an agreed upon portion of the costs for
providing services. Inflation or increased service delivery can erode the established user fees if
the cost of service increases faster than revenue from fee increases.

Policy Statement
It is the general policy of the Board that user fees and service charges be established  at a level
to recover 100% of the costs to provide services. Exceptions to this policy will be made depending
on the benefit to the user of the service, the ability of the user to pay for the service, the benefit
to County citizens, and the type of service provided.

User fees and service charges collected by County agencies will be periodically reviewed. Based
on this review, the Chair will make recommendations to the Board regarding proposed changes
to fee or service charge schedules.

Revenues generat ed from sales (and commissions on sales) of goods and services sold in
County-owned or leased facilities are to be credited to the County’s General Fund unless:

1. They are generated for inmate welfare commissary operations;
2. They are generated in Library facilities used for Library operations;
3. They are generated by internal service providers and offset rates charged to departments;
4. The Board grants an exception.

Status
The Budget Office provides an annual comprehensive review of fees and charges (more
information can be found at https://multco.us/budget/master-fee-schedule). Departments are
generally responsible for ongoing review of fees and charges associated with thei r operations
during the year.

Budgeted General Fund Reserves
Using all available ongoing revenue each year to pay for ongoing programs can result in
fluctuations in program levels as revenues vary from one year to the next. Adding programs in
one year (based on positive short term receipts) can cause the same or other programs to be cut
in the next year if costs outpace revenues. This has a detrimental effect on service delivery over
time, reducing efficiency and causing budgetary and political problems that can be avoided if
program decisions are made in the context  of the County’s long -term financial capacity. The
County’s General Fund is weighted toward a handful of revenues that make up approximately
90% of total resources. Because the revenue stream is not very diverse, and the major source of
General Fund revenue is limited by the Oregon Constitution, it is critical that the County maintain
an appropriate level of reserves.

It is a goal of the County to build a more diverse revenue stream. Further, the County may want
an additional reserve in order to offset the volatility of or lack of diversity in the revenue stream.

Maintaining an appropriate reserve helps the County maintain its favorable bond rating, which is
currently Aaa from Moody’s Investors Service and AAA from Standard & Poor’s Ratings for both
general obligation bonds and full faith and credit obligations. A generally accepted benchmark for
the unrestricted General Fund balance is a dollar amount equal to at least 10% of actual General
Fund revenues.

Ratings agencies generally presume that an entit y has a sufficiently diverse revenue stream to
enable it to sustain a downturn in  any one of its revenue sources. In addition, the guidelines
presume that the entity is not facing future liabilities it will be unable to meet or that it has adopted
and followed a plan to address significant known liabilities.

Policy Statement
The Board understands that to avoid financial instability, continuing requirements should be
insulated from temporary fluctuations in revenues.

It is the goal of the Board to fund and maintain a General Fund budgeted reserve, designated as
unappropriated fund balance and funded at approximately 10% of the “corporate” revenues of the
General Fund and the Special Revenue Video Lottery Fund. Corporate revenues are defined as
revenues that are available for general use and over which the Board has complete discretion.

Corporate revenues include Property Tax, Business Income Tax, Motor Vehicle Rental Tax, State
Revenue Sharing (Cigarette, Liquor, Video Lottery, and Amusement Device Taxes), and Interest
Earnings. These revenue sources account for approximately 90% of total General Fund resources
excluding Beginning Working Capital.

The budgeted reserve account in the General Fund is to be used when overall revenue growth
falls below the rate of annual revenue change achieved during the prior ten years. In years when
basic revenue growth falls below long -term average growth, the Board will reduce the
unappropriated fund balance to continue high priority services that could not otherwise be funded
by current revenues. If the reserve account is so used, to maintain fiscal integrity, a reserve
restoration plan will be included in the adopted budget following the fiscal year in which the
reserve fell below the 10% level.

Status
FY 2019 General Fund reserves exceeded the established policy goal.

The following graph shows the reserve goal, budget and actual unreserved fund balance ($ in
thousands). The budgeted reserves do not include funds budgeted in contingency.

General Fund Contingency

General Fund contingency transfers have a significant effect on the annual budget process by
reducing the amount of ending fund balance that is carried over to the subsequent fiscal year as
beginning working capital. Contingency transfers shou ld be reviewed in the context of other
budget decisions so that high priority programs and projects are not jeopardized.

Policy Statement
The Board understands that in order to avoid financial instability, continuing obligations cannot
increase faster than continuing revenues. It is the policy of the Board to establish an emergency
contingency account in the General Fund, as authorized by ORS 294.352, each fiscal year during
the budget process. The account will be funded at a level consistent with actua l use of transfers
from contingency during the prior ten years.

To maintain financial stability, the following guidelines should be used by the Board in considering
requests for transfers from the General Fund Contingency Account:

1. One-time-only allocations.
2. Contingency funding limited to the following:
 Emergency situations which, if left unattended, will jeopardize the health and safety
of the community.
 Unanticipated expenditures necessary to keep a public commitment or fulfill a
legislative or contractual mandate, or which have been demonstrated to result in
significant administrative or programmatic efficiencies that cannot be covered by
existing appropriations.
3. The Board may, when it adopts the budget for a fiscal year, specify programs it wishes to
review during the year and increase the Contingency account to provide funding to support
those programs if it chooses. Contingency funding of such programs complies with this
policy.

Status
The Budget Director is responsible for informing the Board if contingency requests submitted for
Board approval meet the criteria of this policy. In addition, each year the Budget Director will
provide an annual report to the Board detailing the prior fiscal year’s contingency actions. This
report will include the total dollar amount of contingency requests, dollar amount approved, and
dollar amount that did not meet the criteria of this policy.

Capital Asset and Transportation Planning Policies

Capital Improvement Plan – Facilities and Property Management
Capital financial management policies demonstrate to the credit rating industry and prospective
investors (bond buyers) the County’s commitment to sound financial management. Adherence to
adopted policies ensures the integrity of the planning process and leads to maintaining or
improving bond ratings and lowering the cost of capital.

It is the policy of the Board that the County will attempt to meet its capital maintenance,
replacement or acquisition requirements on a pay -as-you-go basis. If the dollar amount of the
capital requirement cannot be met on a pay-as-you-go basis, if it is financially beneficial to issue
bonds or other debt instruments, and if the project has been determined to benefit future citizens,
the County will evaluate the feasibility of issuing a long term debt financing instrument.

At the end of fiscal year 201 9, Multnomah County owned 77 buildings with a historical cost of
approximately $471 million, and an estimated replacement cost of $1. 5 billion (including soft
costs; excluding land acquisition ). Structural and systems replacement in the County’s capital
plan is largely a non-discretionary activity. That is, the question is not whether such expenditures
are necessary but in what year to s chedule the expenditure on particular projects. Deferral of
capital improvements and maintenance creates an unacceptable unfunded liability and
contributes to further deterioration of properties. It is the goal of the Board to fund the County’s
capital needs at approximately 2% of the cost of County Tier 1 and Tier II buildings, equivalent to
depreciating the facilities over a 50-year period. Only “fire-life-safety” and urgent capital projects
will be considered for Tier III buildings, to avoid further investment in these facilities until they are
disposed of.

The Facilities and Property Management Division shall maintain an inventory of the capital needs
in all owned County facilities. An evaluation process and rating system shall be implemented and
managed by Facilities and Property Management to assist in determining which projects to
propose for funding each year.

Any remaining balance of the Fund shall be maintained as a long-term reserve. During the annual
budget development process the Director of th e Facilities and Property Management (FPM)
division is directed to update the five-year Capital Improvement Plan (CIP). The Plan shall provide
for and prioritize maintenance projects, anticipated major improvements to County capital assets
and any additional replacement of capital assets. The Plan shall include major construction to be
undertaken by the County, regardless of funding source. The Plan will be reviewed and updated
annually, and submitted to the Board of County Commissioners as part of the annual budget (see
Five Year Capital Improvement Plan).

Status
The five year CIP is updated and presented to the Board annually. The County is not in
compliance with the policy goal to fund capital needs at a rate of 2% of the replacement cost of
buildings, but has increased fees charged to tenants in County owned buildings in an effort to
reach the goal over time.

The following graph depicts the annual infrastructure spending goal and actual expenditures ($ in
thousands). The goal refers to a level of ongoing expenditures.

Best Use or Disposition of Surplus Property
The Board will make the final determination on the best use or disposition of the property
identified. When deciding on the best use or disposition of surplus property, the Board will
consider that the proceeds from the sale of unrestricted property may be allocated in the following
prioritized manner:

1. Credited to the Asset Preservation Fund to provide reserves to meet future capital needs
in Tier I facilities.
2. Credited to the Capital Improvement Fund to provide resources for future capital projects,
deferred maintenance, or capital acquisition / construction.
3. Retire outstanding debt related to the disposed of or surplus property.
4. Used to increase General Fund reserves to achieve full fun ding according to these
policies.

In addition property may be traded for other properties or may be leased to other agencies in
order to provide services or carry out the mission of the County.

Transportation Financing

Multnomah County owns, operates and maintains approximately 300 miles of urban and rural
roads and 30 bridge structures, six of which are Willamette River bridges (Sauvie Island,
Broadway, Burnside, Morrison, Hawthorne and Sellwood). Ongoing maintenance an d
 $-
 $5,000
 $10,000
 $15,000
 $20,000
 $25,000
 $30,000
 $35,000
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
In Thousands
Capital Asset Replacement
Goal
Actual
Facilities Capital 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Goal 22,536$      24,373$      27,948$       29,485$      31,406$
Actual 6,722$       7,175$        7,747$        9,086$        12,474$
improvements to the transportation infrastructure are necessary for economic growth, to alleviate
existing transportation problems, and to maintain the livability of the region.

It is the policy of the Board to support statewide and regional funding fo r transportation-related
needs. If state and regional funding is inadequate, the County works with jurisdictions within its
boundaries to address the transportation funding needs of local governments.

Status
Multnomah County’s Transportation Capital Improvement Plan and Program (CIPP) is presented
annually through the budget process. The purpose of the CIPP is to ensure limited public funds
are invested in transportation projects providing the greatest public benefit. The CIPP is fully
updated every five years and reviewed biennially. The update to the plan identified numerous
road, fish passage culvert, and bridge capital projects along with associated seismic upgrades.
Substantial investment is required to meet these needs.

The Chair and Board continue to raise the awareness of the challenges faced by the County due
to the shortfall of transportation revenue. The Board’s acceptance of the CIPP forms the basis for
the selection and funding of road and bridge projects. They are working with the regional, state
and federal partners to address transportation funding issues. More information can be found at
https://multco.us/transportation-planning/plans-and-documents.

Information Technology Capital Projects
Multnomah County owns, operates, and maintains a significant investment in information
technology (IT) equipment, software, and infr astructure. Maintaining and upgrading IT
infrastructure is increasingly a non -discretionary activity, as County operations grow ever more
reliant on information technology to deliver services efficiently.

The Board recognizes that adequate capital equipm ent replacement and upgrade funding is
essential to avoid costly repair, replacement, or failure of major IT capital assets. During the
annual budget development process the Director of the Department of County Assets is directed
to update a five-year IT Asset Replacement Plan. The Plan shall provide for and prioritize major
software projects, anticipated major improvements to County IT assets and infrastructure, and
identify any additional replacement of IT assets. The plan and associated funding mechanism s
shall be reviewed by the County Technology Council and approved annually by the Board of
County Commissioners during the annual budget process.

Status
The Chief Information Officer will report to the board on the status of the projects during the annual
budget process.

Insurance Coverage for Large Capital Projects
In planning for large capital construction projects the County will consider and evaluate all options
for providing insurance coverage on the project. Projects that are estimated to cost mor e than
$50 million may be insured through an Owner Controlled Insurance Program (OCIP). In those
cases, the County will conduct an analysis of insurance options in advance of contract
negotiations in order to determine whether an OCIP would be beneficial to the project.

Long-Term Liabilities
Governments are required to account for and report on long -term and other liabilities per
Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB) pronouncements. Long-term liabilities reflect
future obligations that have been incurred as a result of required or contractually obligated
payments. The County recognizes the need to account for unfunded long -term liabilities and to
develop a plan to manage them prudently.

Policy Statement
Multnomah County has two long -term liabili ties related to the cost of personnel. There are
additional long-term liabilities associated with the County’s self -insurance programs for liability
and worker’s compensation.

The County participates in the Public Employees Retirement System (PERS), a cost -sharing,
multiple-employer defined benefit pension plan administered by the PERS Pension board. PERS
provides retirement, disability, and death benefits to plan members and their beneficiaries. State
statutes (ORS 238 and 238A) authorize the State to establish and amend all plan provisions.

The PERS contribution requirements of the County are established and may be amended by the
State. It is the policy and practice of the Co unty to pay PERS obligations on an annual, pay -as-
you-go basis. The rates assessed by the PERS Board also include an actuarial estimate of the
amount required to provide for any unfunded liability that may exist.

The County also has incurred a liability associated with contractually obligated retiree healthcare
benefits. This liability, commonly known as Other Post-Employment Benefits (OPEB) is the sole
responsibility of the County.

Status
As of December 31, 2018, the County’s net unfunded PERS liability is approximately $ 689.8
million. If it is determined that the County could realize a present value savings from pre-funding
the liability, the Chief Financial Officer may recommend the sale of Pension Obligation Bonds
(POBs).

In FY 2017 the County set the goal to establish four side accounts with Oregon PERS over four
years ($25 million annually). In November 2019 the County established its f ourth side account;
the County has invested a total of $100 million in to side accounts. These funds are invested by
PERS and earn the same rate of return  as the overall PERS portfolio. The creation of side
accounts allows the County to more effectively mitigate anticipated increases in PERS rates.
Reserves, which were restricted for this purpose have been used to fund side accounts.

In FY 2020 the County participated in the PERS Employer Incentive Fund  (EIF) match program
created by Senate Bill 1049. The PERS EIF provided a 25% match on qualifying side accounts
made after June 2, 2018. The County received full match on one side account and a partial match
on a second side account.

As of January 1, 2019, the County’s unfunded OPEB liability is approximately $ 109 million. The
County set a goal to achieve a funding level of 30% of the OPEB liability by the end of FY 2019.
The Chief Financial Officer developed recommendations for funding the liability beyond FY 2018
and presented those for the Board’s consideration Funding to meet the OPEB, liability insurance,
and worker’s compensation liabilities is held in the form of reserves in the Risk Management Fund.
The reserves are allocated, and reported to the State, by the Chief Financial Officer based on
actuarial analysis. Reserves in the fund are considered set asides for the exclusive use of meeting
these liabilities. As of June 30, 2019, the County has funded approximately 49% of the actuarial
liability.

The County receives actuarial valuations for PERS and OPEB liabilities every two years. In
connection with the County’s OPEB actuarial valuations, the CFO and the County’s actuaries will
present the actuarial valuation on OPEB liabilities to the Board along with the CAFR presentation.
The CFO may recommend OPEB funding structures to the Board based on the actuarial
valuations and the County’s Risk Management Fund. This will allow the Board to be better
informed when considering funding options such as estab lishing a trust fund for the County’s
OPEB obligations. The County’s next actuarial valuation will be as of January 1, 2021.

The following is the June 30, 2019 funding level of each liability ($ in thousands):

Liability Description Total Liability Amount Funded
Percent
Funded
Self Insurance (1) 12,347$                 12,886$                      104%
Other Post Employment (2) 109,250$               53,256$                      49%
(1) GASB requires self-insurance claims be recorded as a liability in the financial statements
(2) GASB requires employer paid benefits extended to retirees be disclosed in the financial statements.
Liability relfects the most recent unfunded actuarial accured liability amount per Cheiron actuarial report.

Other Fund Balances
Balances also exist in funds other than the General Fund. These fund balances are held for a
variety of purposes. For example, balances in capital project funds may represent the unspent
portion of projects approved by the Board in a prior year’s budget. Balances m ay exist in debt
service funds to ensure compliance with bond covenants. Other fund balances account for
reserves that are held for asset replacement.

Policy Statement
The Government Accounting Standards Board (GASB) has developed a statement – known as
GASB 54 – that clarifies how fund balances are accounted for financial reporting purposes. The
standard aims to enhance the usefulness of fund balance information by providing clearer fund
balance classifications that can be more consistently applied.

It is the policy of the County to adhere to the GASB 54 guidelines and the following fund balance
classifications that have been established.

 Restricted – for resources constrained on use by externally imposed creditors (such
as through debt covenants), gra ntors, contributors, or laws or regulations of other
governments or constraints imposed by law through constitutional provisions or
enabling legislation.
 Committed – for resources constrained on use authorized by the Board of County
Commissioners via resolution or ordinance. For the purposes of the GASB statement,
resolutions and ordinances are considered to be equally binding. Resources will be
committed prior to June 30th and the amount may be determined at a subsequent
date.
 $-
 $10,000
 $20,000
 $30,000
 $40,000
 $50,000
 $60,000
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
$'s In Thousands
Other Post-Employment Benefits Liability Funding Goal Actual
49% Funded
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Goal 38,156$         45,787$         34,953$         37,642$         32,775$
Actual 38,663$         39,726$         44,496$         49,249$         53,256$
 Assigned – for resources reported in the governmental funds outside of the General
Fund that are not otherwise restricted or committed. Assigned balances represent the
residual balance in funds other than the General Fund and are approved as part of the
annual budget process.
 Unassigned – for fund balances not reported in any other category. Unassigned fund
balances will only be reported in funds other than the General Fund. An unassigned
fund balance occurs when restrictions and commitments of resources are greater than
the fund balance in total.

Status
Accounting for resources in these categories is reported on the Combining Balance Sheet for
each governmental fund type in the County’s Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (CAFR).

The chart below provides the balances in the governmental funds as of June 30, 2019. The
County is in compliance with this policy.

$1,697
$114,253
$94,241
$12,419
$89,282
Fund Balances as of 6/30/19
($'s in Thousands)
Nonspendable Restricted Committed Assigned Unassigned (GF)
Internal Service Funds

Policy Statement
The purpose of establishing internal service funds is to identify and allocate costs related to the
provision of specific goods and services within the County.

Internal Service funds will be used to account for business operations and charge for goods or
services provided to other departments or agencies on a cost-reimbursement basis. Periodically
the rates charged will be compared to other public or private sector operations to ensure that
pricing is competitive. The internal service fund charges will include asset replacement charges
(depreciation) to ensure that adequate funds will be available to purchase replacement assets.

The charges may include a contingency or reserve amount not to exceed 10% of operating
expenditures as recommended in the Auditor’s 2011 Financial Condition Report (https://
multco.us/file/18858/download) to ensure that service reimbursements charge d to other
departments are maintained at a relatively constant level. Rates will be trued up on an annual
basis, thereby eliminating excess reserves.

Status
The County is in compliance with this policy.

Investments Banking, Services and Cash Management

Policy Statement
Multnomah County maintains an active investment program. In accordance with ORS 294.135,
investment transactions are governed by a written investment policy, which specifies objectives,
diversification goals, limitations, and reportin g requirements. The investment policy sets
guidelines for diversification that are more stringent than those allowed by State statute, reflecting
the County’s strategic preference for a conservative investment approach. The investment policy
is ratified annually by the Board of County Commissioners and includes any applicable updates
resulting from changes in State statutes (ORS 294 and 295).

In addition, the County use s an independent Investment Advisory Board to review the County’s
policy and investment  performance and contracts with an investment advisor to provide non -
discretionary advisor services. The investment advisor assist s in developing investment
strategies, assists in the execution of trades, prepares monthly and quarterly investment portfolio
performance reports, and monitors portfolio compliance to applicable rules and regulations. The
current policy can be found at the following link: https://multco.us/finance/investments

Banking services shall be solicited at least every five years on a c ompetitive basis. The Chief
Financial Officer (or their designee) is authorized to act as the County’s “Custodial Officer”
responsible for performing the treasury functions of the County under state statute and the
County’s Home Rule Charter.

Treasury regularly analyzes and monitors the County’s cash flow. Cash balances are reported in
the monthly Investment Report prepared by Treasury. Historically, the County’s low point for cash
occurs prior to the time that Property Tax revenue is received in November . If necessary, and
when there is a financial benefit to the County, the Chief Financial Officer may recommend the
issuance of short-term, Tax and Revenue Anticipation Notes (TRAN). It is the policy of the County
to issue TRANs only when there is a favorable interest rate environment or when internal sources
will not cover the projected cash flow shortfall.

Status
The County is in compliance with this policy.

Short-term and Long-term Debt Financings

The County is authorized to issue debt under State statute (ORS, 287A) which establishes limits
on the amount of debt that may be issued. In addition to the legal debt limits the County has
imposed an internal limit on the issuance of debt that is expressed as a percentage of budgeted
General Fund revenues.

The County’s Debt Management Manual sets guidelines to comply with applicable State statutes,
County imposed debt limitations, and Internal Revenue Service requirements. The Manual covers
all aspects of debt financing from selecting the method of s ale through bond closeout. The Debt
Management Manual is reviewed annually by the Chief Financial Officer and, as requested, by
the Municipal Debt Advisory Commission within the State Treasurer’s Office.

Policy Statement
It has been the County’s policy to issue debt for public projects that provide long -term benefit to
County residents. Under no circumstances will the County fund ongoing operations with the
proceeds of long-term debt.

When issuing debt, the County will follow the Government Finance Offic ers Association
recommended practice of selecting and managing the method of sale. As noted above, debt
issuance is limited by State statute. The limit on voter approved, General Obligation Bonds is 2%
of the real market value assessed within the County. The limit on all other debt instruments is 1%
of the real market value assessed within the County. However, the County further limits non voter-
approved debt supported by the County General Fund to an annual debt payment amount that
will not exceed 5% of General Fund budgeted revenues. Likewise, debt that is supported by other
funds will be limited to 5% of the total revenues of the supporting fund unless dedicated revenue
sources are pledged for repayment of debt service. Annual debt service payments shoul d never
exceed the minimum level of General Fund reserves, (10% of annual General Fund revenues),
providing the County with the ability to meet annual debt payment obligations in the case of severe
budgetary challenges. The statutory and General Fund debt limitations are highlighted in the table
below.

The different types of financings the County may use to fund its major capital acquisitions or
improvements are:

• General Obligation Bonds (requires voter approval)
• Full Faith and Credit Obligations
• Revenue Bonds
Limitation Basis for Limit Value of Limit Debt Capacity
Statutory - GO Bonds 2% of RMV 176,570,949,385           3,531,418,988
Statutory - All Other 1% of RMV 176,570,949,385           1,495,686,687
County Policy 5% of GF Revenues n/a 26,773,950
• Capital Lease-Purchases
• Leases

Where debt is issued to finance capital projects the term should be limited to the economic life of
the financed asset. In general it is the Board’s policy that debt issuances not exceed 20 years.
However, when market conditions warrant or when a specific asset would have a longer useful
life, the Chief Financial Officer may recommend a longer term of issuance.

The Chief Financial Officer regularly reviews and analyzes opportunities to refinance debt. It  is
the policy of the Board to enter into refinance agreements when net present value savings exceed
3% of the outstanding principal balance. Over the past several years, the County has taken an
aggressive approach to debt management. All of the current debt issues that could be refinanced
have been.

Status
A schedule of the County’s outstanding debt obligations as of July 1, 2020, can be found in
Volume One of the FY 2021 budget in the Summaries tab.

Conduit Debt

The County created the “The Hospital Facilities Authority of Multnomah County, Oregon” in 1998
authorized by State S tatute (ORS 441.530). The statute aims to provide  greater access to
adequate medical care and hospital facilities for Oregon residents by allowing cities and counties
to issue debt  (conduit) on behalf of non -profit entities that provide hospital facilities. Hospital
facilities are defined as adult congregate  living facilities, behavioral treatment facilities, family
safety facilities, and healthcare facilities. Though no separate County authority exists Multnomah
County per State statute (ORS 352.795) can  also be a conduit of debt for higher education
facilities to provide quality post-secondary education.

Policy Statement
Multnomah County can  issue bonds and other obligations on behalf of non -profit entities that
provide hospital facilities or higher education facilities. Conduit debt issued creates a liability for
the entity for whom it is issued and is not a direct or contingent liability of Multnomah County and
is therefore not included as debt obligations in the budget.

The County will only consider issuing conduit  debt on behalf of non-profit if the follow elements
are present:

 Borrower must submit a letter of intent describing the req uest, purpose, benefit to
community, and describe how request aligns with Multnomah County’s mission and values
 Borrower facilities must reside in County and directly benefit County residents
 Borrower must be a non-profit entity
 A Pro Forma and 3 years of audited financial statements must be provided
 Chief Financial Officer will complete a financial position review. Projected revenues from
borrower can be expected to cover cost of borrowing
 Request must be in alignment with state statues
 A board briefing i s required in which borrower will present in coordination with Chief
Financial Officer

Status
Conduit debt is not obligation of Multnomah County and not reported on Comprehensive Annual
Financial Report (CAFR). Conduit debt does not count against the County’s statutory debt
capacity. Of the total $221 million principal outstanding on conduit bonds as of June 30th 2019,
98% was issued on behalf of seven hospital facilities and the other 2% on behalf of educational
facilities.

Interfund Loans
An interfund loan is defined as a transfer between funds or fund types within the County for an
approved amount and a definite plan of repayment in a specified period of time. Interfund loans
are subject to ORS 294.468 and are designed to provide financing  resources to address cash
flow needs in County operations or capital financing plans. Interfund loans are either operating or
capital and shall meet the requirements noted below:

 An Operating Interfund Loan is a loan made for the purpose of paying opera ting
expenses.
 A Capital Interfund Loan is a loan made for the purpose of financing the design,
acquisition, construction, installation, or improvement of real or personal property and
not for the purpose of paying operating expenses.

Policy Statement
Interfund loan requests must be reviewed and approved by the County’s Chief Financial Officer
and Budget Director prior to taking a request for authorization to the Board of County
Commissioners. Interfund loans must be authorized by a resolution of the Bo ard of County
Commissioners, which shall state the fund from which the loan is to be made, the fund to which
the loan is to be made, the purpose and intent for which the loan is made, the principal amount of
the loan, the interest rate at which the loan sh all be repaid (if applicable), and a schedule for
repayment of principal and interest. In addition, interfund loans:

1. Shall not be made from reserve funds, debt service funds, or any other funds restricted by
law, constitutional provisions, bond covenants, grantor requirements, Board resolutions or
ordinances, unless the restrictions on these funds allow for the purpose of the interfund
loan.
2. Shall not be used to fund ongoing operations unless specifically approved by Board
resolution.
3. Shall be granted only after it has been demonstrated that reasonable consideration was
given to other potential resources available to the fund and when the loan is required to
meet a pressing need or to take advantage of a special opportunity.
4. Shall not exceed 10 years in du ration for any capital interfund loan; shall not extend
beyond the end of the next fiscal year for any operating interfund loan.
5. May be made only if there is a likely expectation that the fund receiving the loan will have
the ability to repay it. If not, t he use of an interfund transfer should be considered if
appropriate.
6. May be repaid in advance without any additional accrual of interest (if applicable) or any
other penalties.
7. Must be made in compliance with all other statutory requirements and limitations of ORS
294.468.

No County fund shall carry a deficit cash balance for more than four months during any 12 month
period without written authorization of the CFO. Absent authorization, department responsible for
a fund shall be required to initiate a request for an interfund loan to be presented to the Board.

Status

The County is in compliance with this policy.