BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
PROCLAMATION NO. 2024-040
Proclaiming May 2024 as Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander Heritage
Month in Multnomah County, Oregon.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
1. The month of May is nationally recognized as a time to celebrate the contributions of
Asians, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders.
2. The month of May was chosen as Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific
Islander (AANHPI) Heritage Month to commemorate the immigration of the first Japanese
citizen, Nakahama Manjirō, to the United States on May 7, 1843. It also honors the anniversary
of the completion of the first Transcontinental Railroad on May 10, 1869. This incredible feat
wa
s accomplished due to the back-breaking labor of nearly 20,000 Chinese immigrants. The
term AANHPI aspires to connect communities who originate from the Asia  and Pacific regions.
3. AA and NHPI communities have lived and worked in Oregon for over 200 years,
contributing to the State’s rich history, economy, and culture. Notably in the early 1800s, Native
Hawaiians and Pacific Islanders crossed the Pacific Ocean to the Pacific Northw est to establish
fur trading posts along the Oregon Trail. In the late 1800s and early 1900s, South Asians
mi
grated to towns up and down the West Coast, working in lumber and agriculture.
4. Throughout their history in the United States and in Oregon, Asian American
communities have been subject to discrimination and violence. In 1910, White laborers led an
anti-As ian attack on South Asian laborers in the St. Johns neighborhood. With the b acking of
the Multnomah County District Attorney's Office, the South Asian laborers fought back and
demanded the prosecution of these attacks. Recently, Asian communities have been the target
of anti-Asian hate that has been fanned by misinformation and bias. Asian American history is
both heroic and harrowing, as these communities have thrived despite harassment and
discrimination.
5. As
 indigenous people, Pacific Islander history is vast and complex, extending to time
immemorial. While the term AANHPI intends to unite communities, the term AANHPI tokenizes
Pacific Islanders, encouraging institutional erasure of their disparities and their vibrant stories.
Melanesians, Micronesians, and Polynesians are the fastest growing populations in Oregon.
Pa
cific Islanders are working to improve health and economic disparities through data driven
community organizing, grassroots advocacy, and narrative changes. Their communities are
transforming Oregon history with significant events such as the passing of Pacific Islander
Student Success Act, completing innovative, community-le d public health data modernization,
and achieving the highest rates of vaccination during the COVID-19 pandemic.
6. Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders have made significant
contributions in various aspects of our society such as the arts, law, science, technology, sports,
and public service. Supporting and advancing AA and NHPI community leaders is essential to
developing leadership opportunities, inspiring individuals and advancing Multnomah County’s
diverse and vibrant culture.
7. Multnomah County is committed to learning from and working with our AA and NHPI
partners to eliminate disparities by removing barriers to success by increasing social inclusion,
reducing poverty, ensuring language and healthcare access, data disaggregation, and
supporting meaningful civic engagement.
8. Multnomah County affirms our commitments to support the AA and NHPI communities.
Multnomah County welcomes and supports all Asian, Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and
Pacific Islander Oregonians as vital members of our community. Multnomah County is
committed to actively working with the community to use County systems of care to provide our
residents the health and safety they deserve.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
The month of May 2024 as Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander Heritage
Month in Multnomah County, Oregon, and encourages all residents to observe this month and
to learn more about AA and NHPI communities.
ADOPTED this 30th day of May, 2024.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By:
      Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney
SUBMITTED BY: Commissioner Julia Brim-Edwards