BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
PROCLAMATION NO. 2022-066
Proclaiming June 19th, 2022 as Juneteenth Day in Multnomah County, Oregon.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
1. The Independence Day movement initiated by the Declaration of Independence
on July 4, 1776 did not include the enslaved descendants of African Americans,
nor were they recognized as full human beings under the Declaration of
Independence.
2. On January 1, 1863 the Emancipation Proclamation was signed, yet, all
remaining slaves in Texas did not receive the news until June 19, 1865,
earmarking Juneteenth as the annual observation and recognition date. On this
day 42 states in the US including the District of Columbia celebrate the abolition
of slavery which gave all slaves freedom and equal rights. This day is also known
as Freedom Day and Emancipation Day and is heavily recognized in African
American communities nationwide.
3. Juneteenth honors and celebrates the end of slavery; not the day slavery actually
ended. "Delayed emancipation was not caused by not-knowing; the culprit was
lack of enforcement." We celebrate Juneteenth because it was the beginning of
freedom and abolition of slavery for African Americans in the United States.
4. Although President Abraham Lincoln signed an executive order known as the
Emancipation Proclamation granting freedom to slaves in the states of the
Confederacy on January 1, 1863 slave owners in the Confederate states
continued to enslave people in defiance until well after the Civil War ended in
April 1865.
5. When Union Major Gordon Granger read General Order Number 3 in Galveston,
Texas, on June 19, 1865, it contained the important words, “all slaves are free”,
causing impromptu celebrations across the state as the long-delayed news
spread.
6. Juneteenth is the oldest celebration commemorating the abolition of slavery in
the United States today which celebrates the freedom and achievement of
African Americans, while encouraging continuous self-development and respect
for all cultures in the African diaspora.
7. In 1945, Vanport resident Clara Peoples, the “Mother of Juneteenth,” brought the
tradition from Muskogee, Oklahoma, to the Kaiser Shipyard in Oregon
celebrating Juneteenth for the first time here in Multnomah County. Traditionally,
the celebration of Juneteenth kicked off with the Clara Peoples Freedom Trail
Parade, followed by a community festival. This was a time to celebrate and honor
African Americans' freedom with an emphasis on education and achievement.
8. In 1997, the 105th United States Congress passed Senate Joint Resolution 11
and House Joint Resolution 56 officially recognizing Juneteenth Independence
Day.
9. In 2001, Juneteenth became a statewide holiday here in the State of Oregon
when Clara Peoples and Woody Broadnax worked with Senator Avel Gordly to
have Juneteenth recognized as a statewide day of observance and declaration.
Juneteenth is to be a day for celebration statewide of the dignity, worth, and
freedom of all citizens. Members of the Seventy-first Oregon Legislative
Assembly passed Joint Resolution 56 that proclaims June 19 of each year as
Juneteenth Independence Day.
10. Multnomah County was the first County in Oregon to declare Juneteenth an
annual paid holiday for Multnomah County employees in June 2020. By
observing Juneteenth, Multnomah County seeks to not only commemorate the
importance of the date of Black liberation, but also encourages staff to use the
day as an opportunity to learn about Black history locally and nationally, to
support Black writers, filmmakers and artists, patronize Black-owned businesses,
and honor the accomplishments of Black colleagues.
11. Multnomah County acknowledges the ongoing impacts of slavery, Jim Crow,
Oregon’s Black exclusion laws and gentrification on Black Oregonians and
remains committed to promoting and investing in services and programs that
support racial healing, reconciliation, restoration, justice and equitable
opportunities of all people.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
June 19, 2022 as Juneteenth Day in Multnomah County, Oregon, and encourages all
residents, institutions, businesses and community groups to observe Juneteenth as a
day of remembrance and celebration.
ADOPTED this 23rd day of June, 2022.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
___________________________________
Deborah Kafoury, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By
     Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney
SUBMITTED BY: Deborah Kafoury, County Chair