Page 1 of 3 - Amending Multnomah County’s Zoning Map and Zoning Code to Incorporate
Amendments to the City of Portland’s Zoning Map and Planning and Zoning Code implementing
the City’s Floodplain Resilience Plan.
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
ORDINANCE NO. 1320
Amending Multnomah County’s Zoning Map and Zoning Code to Incorporate
Amendments to the City of Portland’s Zoning Ma p and Planning and Zoning Code
Implementing the City’s Floodplain Resilience Plan.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. Pursuant to an intergovernmental agreement executed in 2002 (the “IGA”), the City
of Portland, Oregon (“City”), provides Multnomah County, with certain exceptions,
land use planning services for those areas of unincorporated Multnomah County
located within the City’s Urban Services Boundary (the “U nincorporated Urban
Areas”).
b. Because the County retains legislative authority over the Unincorporated Urban
Areas, the County assumed an obligation in the IGA to amend County zoning
maps, land use policies and regulations as they relate to the Unincorporated Urban
Areas to incorporate applicable zoning maps, City land use policies and
regulations, and all subsequent amendments thereto.
c. On October 11, 2023,  Portland City Council voted to adopt City Ordinance
No.191477, set to take effect in part on March 1, 2024 (City Directives A, B, C and
E) and in part on October 1, 2024 (City Directives D and F). The Ordinance adopts
the City Floodplain Resilience Plan which intends to reduce the impacts of future
flooding and prevent the degradation of floodplain habitat for enda ngered and
threatened fish species, bring City regulations into compliance with federal
regulations, and advance City climate resiliency goals.
d. City Ordinance No.191477 includes different proposals depending on the location
within the City’s jurisdiction. Amendments applicable to the Unincorporated Urban
Areas are summarized below.
(Willamette River South Reach - Riverdale/Dunthorpe)
• The Ordinance updates the boundaries of the existing riparian buffer
area and River Environmental overlay zone to include the areas
identified in the Modeled 1996 Willamette River Flood Extent and
FEMA 100-year Floodplain.
• The Ordinance removes the River Environmental overlay zone from
developed floodplains greater than 100 feet from the top of bank and
or landward of the riparian buffer area.
Page 2 of 3 - Amending Multnomah County’s Zoning Map and Zoning Code to Incorporate Amendments to the City of Portland’s Zoning Map and Planning and Zoning Code implementing the City’s Floodplain Resilience Plan.
 (Johnson Creek Floodplain)  • The Ordinance updates City Title 33.430, Environmental Zones, to limit (in some cases) when a tree can be removed through an exemption and establishes a requirement that at least three trees are planted whenever a tree is removed in the floodplain. These changes only apply to properties currently located in the Environmental Conservation or Environmental Protection overlay zone and no overlays zones were expanded in this area as a part of this project.   e. The City has requested that the County amend the County’s Zoning Map and Zoning Code to incorporate the changes implemented in City Ordinance No.191477.  f. Pursuant to State and City notice requirements, as well as the terms of the IGA, the City provided public notice of City Ordinance No.191477. The City provided an opportunity for the public to be heard at public hearings, culminating with hearings before the City’s Planning and Sustainability Commission and the City Council.    g. City Ordinance No.191477 is attached as Exhibit 1. All supporting legislative documentation to City Ordinance No.191477 is adopted by reference as legislative findings in support of this County Ordinance. The full legislative record for City Ordinance No.191477 is maintained by the City of Portland and can be provided upon request by the City, pursuant to any relevant laws or procedures related to public record requests in effect at the time of request. At the time this County Ordinance was adopted, a digital copy of the legislative record was made available to the general public by the City of Portland at the following online address:   https://efiles.portlandoregon.gov/Record/14762263  Multnomah County Ordains as Follows:  Section 1. Multnomah County’s Zoning Map and Zoning Code is amended to incorporate the amendments in City of Portland Ordinance No.191477 attached hereto as Exhibit 1 and, as necessary, Multnomah County incorporates by reference any related amendments and supporting documentation within the legislative record associated with City of Portland Ordinance No.191477.  Section 2. In accordance with ORS 215.427(3), the changes resulting from Section 1 of this Ordinance shall not apply to any decision on an application that is submitted before the applicable effective dates of this Ordinance and that is made complete prior to the applicable effective dates of this Ordinance or within 180 days of the initial submission of the application.
Section 3. In accordance with ORS 92.040(2), for any subdivisions for which the initial
application is submitted before the applicable effective date s of this Ordinance, the
subdivision application and any subsequent application for construction shall be governed
by the County's land use regulations in effect as of the date the subdivision application is
first submitted.
Section 4. Any future amendments to the legislative matters listed in Section 1 above
are exempt from the Legislative Hearing Process requirements of MCC 39.1210. The
Board acknowledges, authorizes and agrees that the Portland Planning and Sustainability
Commission will act instead of the  Multnomah County Planning Commission for the
Unincorporated Urban Areas  by employing the City's own legislative procedures,
including providing notice to, and facilitating participation from , property owners within
Unincorporated Urban Areas . The Board will consider the recommendations of the
Portland Planning and Sustainability Commission and City Council when legislative land
use matters for the Unincorporated Urban Areas come before the Board for action.
Section 5.    Ordinance No.191477 described in Section 1 of this Ordinance will take
effect within the Unincorporated Urban Areas on March 1, 2024.
FIRST READING: December 14, 2023
SECOND READING AND ADOPTION: January 4, 2024
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
SUBMITTED BY: Margi Bradway, Director, Department of Community Services.
Page 3 of 3 - Amending Multnomah County’s Zoning Map and Zoning Code to Incorporate
Amendments to the City of Portland’s Zoning Map and Planning and Zoning Code implementing
the City’s Floodplain Resilience Plan.