Page 1 of 2 – Public Hearing Transferring Jurisdiction of a Portion of Telford Road to
Gresham
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
ORDER NO.  2022-017
Public Hearing and Order Regarding the Transfer of a Portion of S.E. Telford Road, County
Road No. 869, to the City of Gresham Pursuant to ORS 373.270.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. On December 15, 2005, this Board approved an Intergovernmental Agreement
(“Agreement”) regarding the transfer of County Roads within the City limits of Gresham, to the
City of Gresham (“City”).
b. Paragraph 8.2 of the Agreement provides that upon future annexations jurisdiction of all
roads under the jurisdiction of the County in the annexed areas will immediately pass to the
City.
c. However, a portion of Telford Road, directly abutting the annexed areas, was
inadvertently omitted from the description of the area being annexed in 2017.  The City now
requests that this area be annexed to them which is consistent with the purpose of the 2005
IGA between the City and the County.
d. Subsequently, the City adopted Resolution No. 3445 requesting that the County transfer
jurisdiction for the portion of Telford Road that was inadvertently excluded to the City; that
portion of Telford Road is described in the attached Exhibit A and shown on the attached Exhibit
B.
e. The purpose of this hearing is to allow for: (i) the filing and presentation of information
by the public regarding the proposed transfer of the above mentioned public road; (ii) the
County Board to determine if the surrendering of the county road is necessary,  expedient, or
in the best interest of the County; and (iii) adherence to the requirements of ORS 373.270(4).
Notice of this public hearing has been provided in compliance with ORS 373.270(2)(a) and (b).
f. After considering information filed and presen ted at this public hearing, the County
Board shall make a determination whether the transfer is necessary, expedient, or in the best
interest of the County, and whether to support or deny the transfer of the above mentioned
public road.
f. If the County Boar d determines it is in the public interest to support the transfer of
jurisdiction of the portion of Telford Road described in Exhibits A and shown on Exhibit B,
adopting this Order will immediately transfer jurisdiction to the City.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves:
Page 2 of 2 – Public Hearing Transferring Jurisdiction of a Portion of Telford Road to
Gresham
1. Upon holding a public hearing and considering all matters presented, the County Board
hereby declares transferring jurisdiction of the portion of S.E. Telford Road, County Road No.
869, as described in the attached Exhibits A and B, to the City of Gresham, as being necessary,
expedient, or in the best interest of the County.
2. Jurisdiction of S.E. Telford Road, County Rd. No. 869, as described in the attached Exhibits
A and B, is hereby transferred to the City of Gresham.
3. Pursuant to ORS 373.270(7)(a), County jurisdiction over the portion of S.E. Telford Road
being transferred, as a County Road, for its improvement, construction, or repair shall cease.
4. Pursuant to ORS 373.270(7)(b), full and absolute jurisdiction over the portion of S.E. Telford
Road being transferred, for the purposes of repair, construction, improvement and the levying
and collection of assessments therefore shall vest in the City.
ADOPTED this 10th day of March, 2022.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Deborah Kafoury, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
SUBMITTED BY:  Jamie Waltz, Director, Department of Community Services