BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON  RESOLUTION NO. 2023-018  Approving a Lease of Premises Located within Portland Community College’s Campus at 4299 NE Killingsworth, Portland, Oregon, and Approving the Associated FAC-1 Project Plan for Tenant Improvements.  The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:  A. This proposal affects existing clients of La Clinica and the community in the Cully neighborhood. La Clinica is one of the few Health Department clinics that does not offer dental and pharmacy services co-located in the same clinic along with primary care. The existing clients and demand analysis has demonstrated a need for co-located services, and patient surveys indicate that the presence of on site services in all three areas is a top request from patients. The health center intends to explore workforce development for medical and dental assistants with PCC on site. In addition, the NE Killingsworth region is considered a pharmacy desert, with few options for community members to access pharmacy services.   B. Development of a new health center at this site will replace the current La Clinica (6736 NE Killingsworth St) primary care site and expand current service offerings to include onsite dental and pharmacy services. Multnomah County intends to partner with PCC to build this new clinic as part of PCC’s redevelopment of the Workforce Center in Northeast Portland. A lease of premises within the property located at 4299 NE Killingsworth Portland, Oregon (“Premises”) will provide for a Multnomah County Health Department Clinic.  C. The Health Department will be the first Tenant to occupy the Premises and both Landlord and Tenant improvements will be delivered prior to occupancy  D. Approval of a lease of the Premises on terms substantially in conformance with the lease attached hereto as Exhibit 1, and approval FAC-1 Project Plan, setting forth the plan for the Design and Construction Phases for tenant improvements to the Premises (“Project”), is in the best interests of Multnomah County.  The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves:  1. The Project Plan is approved and the Project Team is authorized to proceed with the Design and Construction Phases of the Project, including the solicitation of bids or proposals for construction of the Project in the manner agreed to with PCC.
 2. Execution of a lease on terms substantially similar to those set forth in Exhibit 1 is approved. Renewals, extensions and amendments of such lease may be executed without further Board action.  ADOPTED this 6th day of April, 2023.  BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON     Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair   REVIEWED: JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON   By:  Jed Tomkins, Sr. Asst. County Attorney   SUBMITTED BY: Tracey Massey, Director, Department of County Assets/CIO