Rule # 4-50Drug and Alcohol Use and Testing§§:§ 4-50-005 Applicability§ 4-50-010 Drug Free Workplace§ 4-50-015 Definitions§ 4-50-020 Commercial Driver and Other Professional Requirements§ 4-50-030 Work Rules§ 4-50-040 Employee Cooperation Required§ 4-50-050 Disciplinary Action§ 4-50-060 Mandatory Assessment and Treatment§ 4-50-070 Return to Work Testing§ 4-50-080 Basis for Testing§ 4-50-090 Testing Methodology
§ 4-50-005 ApplicabilityThis rule applies to all employees, but does not amend or supersede any collective bargainingagreement.
§ 4-50-010 Drug Free WorkplaceThe county, in accordance with the Drug Free Workplace Act of 1988, is committed toestablishing and maintaining a work-place that is free of alcohol and drugs and free of theeffects of alcohol and drug abuse. The purpose of this policy is to promote a safe andproductive working environment and prevent accidents, injuries and property damage, whichmay result from drug and alcohol abuse.
§ 4-50-015 Definitions
Alcohol:Ethyl alcohol and all beverages or liquidscontaining ethyl alcohol.
Controlled Substance:All forms of narcotics, depressants,stimulants, analgesics,hallucinogens, and cannabis, as classified in Schedules I - V under the Federal ControlledSubstances Act (21 USC § 811-812) as modified under ORS 475.035, whose sale, purchase,transfer, use, or possession is prohibited or restricted by law.
Drug Paraphernalia:Drug paraphernalia means anyand all equipment, products, andmaterials of any kind, as more particularly defined in ORS 475.525(2), which are or can beused in connection with the production, delivery, or use of a controlled substance.
Drug Test:Any test designed to identify the presence of certain prohibited drugs or theirmetabolites in the body.
Drugs:  Controlled substances, designer drugs (drugsubstances not approved for medical orother use by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration or the U.S. Food and DrugAdministration), and/or over-the-counter preparations available without a prescription from amedical doctor that are capable of impairing an employee's mental or physical ability to safely,efficiently, and accurately perform work duties.
Manager:Includes both supervisor and manager jobprofiles.  See definition in MCPR1-10-040,
Medical Review Officer (MRO):A medical doctor trainedin toxicology who contracts withemployers primarily to review positive preliminary drug test results with employees.
On-Duty:The period of time during which an employeeis engaged in activities which arecompensable as work performed on behalf of the county, or the period of time before or afterwork when an employee is wearing a uniform, badge, or other insignia provided by the county,or operating a vehicle or equipment which identifies Multnomah County.
Prescription Medication:A medication for which aperson is required by law to have a valid,current prescription.
Substance Abuse Professional (SAP):A licensed physician,or licensed or certifiedpsychologist, social worker, employee assistance professional, or addiction counselor withknowledge of and clinical experience in the diagnosis and treatment of alcohol and controlledsubstance-related disorders.
§ 4-50-020 Commercial Driver and Other Professional Requirements
Employees who are required to maintain a commercial drivers license or other professionallicensure as a condition of employment must comply with all laws, county rules and proceduresrelated to their ability to be eligible for and maintain their licensure.
§ 4-50-030 Work Rules
All employees are required to follow the work rules listed below.
A. This rule applies regardless of whether the employee is on paid time. “County premises”includes all property, owned, rented, leased or controlled by the county includingparking lots and adjacent areas. It also includes county equipment and vehicles on oroff county property.
1. Employees must not possess, consume, manufacture, solicit, distribute, buy, orsell drugs, drug paraphernalia or alcohol on county premises or while off countypremises doing county work, except when lawfully required as part of the job. Anexception will be made for alcohol containers that are sealed and for giftpurposes. Managers must be notified when such containers will be brought to thework place.
2. Employees must not solicit, distribute, dispense, or sell prescription medicationsexcept when lawfully required as a part of the job.
3. Employees must not possess or consume prescription medications without avalid prescription.
B. While off duty, but on county premises, employees will not use or distribute alcoholwithout authorization.
C.General fitness for duty:
1. Employees must not report for duty or access or use county work areas orproperty while “under the influence” of drugs or alcohol. An individual isconsidered to be “under the influence” of alcohol if a breathalyzer test indicatesthe presence of alcohol at or above the .04% level. An individual is considered tobe “under the influence” of drugs when testing indicates the presence ofcontrolled substances at or above the levels applying to CDL holders.
2. Employees must not render themselves unfit to fully perform work dutiesbecause of the use of alcohol or illegal drugs, or because of the abuse ofprescription or non-prescription medications.
3. Employees must comply with legally mandated occupational requirements,whether or not they are specifically included in this policy. For example, by lawholders of commercial drivers licenses (CDL) may not perform safety sensitivefunctions, such as driving, at or above the .02% level.
4. Employees must not be absent from work because of the use of alcohol or illegaldrugs, or because of the abuse of prescription or non-prescription medications,except when absent to participate in a qualified assessment and rehabilitationprogram while on approved leave.
5. Employees will inform themselves of the effects of any prescription ornon-prescription medications by obtaining information from health care providers,pharmacists, medication packages and brochures, or other authoritative sourcesin advance of performing work duties.
6. Employees must notify their managers in advance when their use of prescriptionor non-prescription medications may interfere with the safe and efficient
performance of duties or impair their ability to perform the essential functions oftheir position that will result in a direct threat to others. Such employees include,but are not limited to, sworn officers, holders of a commercial drivers license andthose operating equipment or handling hazardous materials. For example,corrections or law enforcement lieutenants should report when they are takingmedications that may affect their ability to use a firearm or to perform otheressential functions of their job. Similarly, employees who drive a motor vehicle aspart of their job, whether it is a county vehicle or their personal vehicle, shouldreport when they are taking medications that may impair their ability to drive.
§ 4-50-040 Employee Cooperation Required
A. Employees must not interfere with the administration of this rule. Examples include butare not limited to the following:  tainting, tampering, or substitution of urine samples;falsifying information regarding the use of prescribed medications or controlledsubstances; or failure to cooperate with any tests outlined in this rule to determine thepresence of drugs or alcohol.
B. Employees must provide to human resources within 24 hours or one business day ofrequest a current valid prescription in the employee's name for any drug or medicationthat the employee alleges gave rise to reasonable suspicion of being under theinfluence of alcohol or drugs.
C.Employees must respond fully and accurately to inquiries from the county's MedicalReview Officer (MRO) and authorize MRO contact with treating health care providersupon request.
D.Employees must complete any assessments or treatment programs required under thisRule.
E. Upon request, employees must sign a waiver authorizing treatment providers todisclose confidential information necessary to verify successful completion of anyassessment or treatment program required under this rule.
F. Employees must promptly and fully disclose to their manager on the next working day:
1. All drug or alcohol-related arrests, citations, convictions, guilty pleas, no contestpleas or diversions which resulted from conduct which occurred while on duty, oncounty property, or in a county vehicle; or,
2. Any other violation of laws regulating use of alcohol and controlled substanceswhich adversely affects an employee's ability to perform major job functions,specifically to include loss or limitation of driving privileges when the employee'sjob is identified as requiring a valid driver’s license.
§ 4-50-050 Disciplinary Action
A. Employees are subject to discipline in accordance with these rules. Probationary/InitialTrial Service employees violating work rules are subject to immediate termination.Employees who refuse a test directed under this policy are subject to discipline, up toand including termination.
B. Employees are not subject to discipline or removal from the On-call and/or Temporaryemployee lists for seeking treatment for alcohol or drug dependency. However,employees are held fully accountable for their behavior. Seeking treatment will notmitigate discipline for rule violations or other unacceptable conduct caused by suchdependency.
C.Some duties create a higher standard of accountability which may result in greaterdiscipline for lack of compliance with this rule than others. These duties include but arenot limited to the following:
1. Carrying firearms
2. Work in the criminal justice system
3. Responsibility for public safety or the safety of co-workers
4. Handling narcotics or other controlled substances
5. Handling hazardous equipment or materials
6. Influencing the behavior of minors
7. Holding a commercial drivers license
D.In instances in which the county determines that an employee's conduct warrantstermination, the county may offer regular employees continued employment under theterms of a Last Chance Agreement if there are mitigating circumstances, such assubstance abuse dependency or other good cause. Such agreements will include atleast the following:
1. The requirement that the employee enroll, participate in, and successfullycomplete a treatment program recommended by a Substance AbuseProfessional (SAP).
2. The right of the county to administer any number of unannounced follow-up drugor alcohol tests at any time during the work day for a period of two years fromcompletion of any required treatment program.
3. The signatures of the employee's Director and Manager, Labor Relations, andthe employee.
E. The offer of a Last Chance Agreement does not set a precedent for the discipline ofother employees. Any discipline incorporated in a Last Chance Agreement may not beappealed to the Merit System Civil Council under MCPR 2-20.
§ 4-50-060 Mandatory Assessment and Treatment
A. Employees who are disciplined for conduct related to the use of alcohol or drugs maybe required to undergo assessment and complete a treatment program prescribed by aSAP selected by the county. Employees who test positive for alcohol or controlledsubstances are required to undergo assessment at the earliest opportunity, regardlessof whether disciplinary action has been taken.
B. The county will verify employees' attendance, and that the assessment and treatmenthave been completed. This verification and any other information concerning alcoholand drug dependency will be treated as confidential medical information under state andfederal law.
C.Policy on the use of leave for assessment and treatment will be the same as for anyother illness.
D.If the employee changes treatment providers, they must notify the County’s Drug andAlcohol Policy Coordinator within three (3) working days.
§ 4-50-070 Return to Work TestingEmployees who test positive for being "under the influence" of alcohol or drugs will be requiredto test negative before returning to work.
§ 4-50-080 Basis for Testing
A. All employees may be tested:
1. Based on reasonable suspicion of being "under the influence" of alcohol orprohibited drugs.
2. Before returning to work after testing positive for being "under the influence" ofalcohol or drugs.
3. As part of a program of unannounced follow-up testing provided for in a LastChance Agreement.
B. An employee applying for a different county position will be subject to testing on thesame basis, and using the same procedures and methods, as outside applicants.
C.Consistent with federal law, employees in positions that are designated as safetysensitive, including but not limited to, holders of commercial drivers licenses and bridgeoperators, will be subject to the testing requirements of federal law, in addition to therequirements herein which apply to all employees. For example, unlike otheremployees, employees in safety sensitive positions will be subject to legally requiredrandom testing and testing following certain kinds of accidents.
D.Reasonable suspicion is a set of objective and specific observations or facts, noparticular one to be controlling, that lead a Director or manager to suspect that anemployee is under the influence of drugs, controlled substances, or alcohol. Examplesinclude, but are not limited to:
1. Slurred speech,
2. Alcohol on breath,
3. Loss of balance or coordination,
4. Dilated or constricted pupils,
5. Apparent hallucinations,
6. High absenteeism or persistent pattern of unexcused absenteeism,
7. Erratic work performance,
8. Persistent poor judgement,
9. Difficulty concentrating,
10.Theft from office or from other persons,
11.Unexplained absences from duty, or
12.Employee’s admission of use of prohibited substances
E. Manager Training: The county will provide training to all Directors and managers onestablishing reasonable suspicion and the nature of alcohol and drug dependency. Onlythe Chair, Directors and managers that have been trained have the authority to directemployees to be tested on the basis of reasonable suspicion of being under theinfluence.
F. Application of the "Reasonable Suspicion" standard to any employee covered by thisrule will include the following additional precautions:
1. Directors and managers will articulate orally a summary of the specific factswhich form the basis for believing that the employee is under the influence ofdrugs or alcohol; and
2. Directors and managers will provide upon request, within within two (2) businessdays of the oral determination of "reasonable suspicion", a written specification ofthe grounds for reasonable suspicion; and
3. Except in field or shift circumstances, which render contact difficult, no managerwill refer an employee for a drug or alcohol test based on "reasonable suspicion"unless the manager has consulted with a manager or the County Attorneyregarding the grounds for the suspicion.
§ 4-50-090 Testing Methodology
A. Testing procedures for all employees are governed by the same standards as apply toCDL drivers under federal law. These standards include, but are not limited to, thosegoverning sample acquisition, the chain of custody, laboratory selection, testingmethods and procedures, and verification of test results.
B. In accordance with CDL standards, the county will contract with a medical doctor trainedin toxicology to act as a Medical Review Officer (MRO). The MRO will attempt to contactemployees to review preliminary positive test results with employees and any relevanthealth care providers before the results are reported to the county. Based onprofessional judgment, the MRO may change the preliminary test results to negative.The county will not be able to distinguish a test result that is negative by MROintervention from any other negative result.
C.The MRO or the testing laboratory will issue test results only to the designated personsin Central Human Resources. The results will be sent by certified mail or hand-deliveredto the employee within three working days of receipt of results by the county.
D.If an employee disagrees with the results of any blood or urine alcohol or drug test, theemployee may request, in writing within five days of receipt of test results, that theoriginal sample be re-tested at the employee's expense by the testing laboratory. Theresult of any such retest will be deemed final and binding and not subject to any furthertest. Failure to make a timely written request for a retest is deemed acceptance of thetest results. If an employee requests a retest, disciplinary action will be stayed pendingreceipt of the results of the re-testing. The retesting provisions do not apply tobreathalyzer tests.
E. Test reports are confidential medical records and will be kept in a separate medical filefor the employee according to applicable state and federal law.
§ 4-50-100 Sample Last Chance Agreement
Last Chance Agreement
The following agreement is entered into between Multnomah County and the Employee.Failure on the part of the employee to meet the expectations below will result in the terminationof the employee’s employment with the County.
1. I agree to be evaluated by a qualified alcohol/substance abuse counselor, and ifrequired, I shall immediately enroll and continue in a bona fide alcohol/drug impatient oroutpatient rehabilitation program approved by the County. I fully understand that shouldI fail to complete either the inpatient or outpatient program, or fail to stay in goodstanding with the maintenance and/or aftercare program, my employment with theCounty will be terminated.
2. I agree to comply with and complete the conditions of my "Treatment Plan," which mayinclude participation in a maintenance or aftercare program, as recommended by mytreatment counselor. If I must be absent from my aftercare or maintenance program, Imust notify the County. The County has my permission to verify my attendance atrequired meetings. If I do not continue in the aftercare or maintenance program, Iunderstand that my employment will be terminated.
3. I understand that the signing of this agreement shall allow the County the right tocommunicate with my physician and/or counselors regarding my status and progress ofrehabilitation and aftercare. I further agree to sign any authorization or release ofinformation necessary to allow for such communication.
4. I agree to submit to periodic, unannounced, unscheduled drug or alcohol testing(urinalysis and breath test) by the County for a period of twenty-four (24) months fromthe date of this agreement or when I return to work if I am participating in an inpatienttreatment program. This time period will increase accordingly if I am absent from work,for any reason, for a cumulative period of one (1) month or more. I understand that if Irefuse to take a drug and/or alcohol test or if a test is positive, my employment will beterminated.
5. I agree to return to work upon successful completion of an alcohol/drug rehabilitationprogram if my substance abuse counselor requires inpatient treatment. If enrolled inoutpatient treatment, I may return when I am substance free and in good standing in mymaintenance program, at such time as recommended by my treatment counselor.
6. It is understood that this agreement constitutes a final warning, and as such, lasts forthe duration of my employment at the County. Should I terminate employment, and thenreturn to work in a position with the County, the terms of this Agreement will continue tobe in effect.
7. I understand the Employee Assistance Program is available to me should personalproblems arise in the future that may have an effect on my ability to remain incompliance with the drug and alcohol policy and/or this agreement.
8. I realize that violation of the drug and alcohol rules and/or policies at any time in thefuture is cause for termination without a pre-termination hearing.
9. I realize that my employment will be terminated if I fail to meet the expectations outlinedin this Agreement and the letter attached.
Disciplinary Action
I understand that the disciplinary action imposed in the attached letter may not be appealed tothe Merit System Civil Council under MCPR 2-20.
Personal Commitment
I pledge and agree to abide by the terms of this agreement. I understand that a violation of ornoncompliance with any of these terms will result in my being terminated without the right to apre-termination hearing. Further, I pledge to remain free of all illegal drugs and also not toabuse legal drugs (including alcohol). I hereby consent to the County's contacting anytreatment or health care provider who may have information on my alcohol or drugdependency condition and/or compliance with the terms of this agreement and authorize theprovider to furnish such information to the County.
I understand the terms and conditions of this letter. I also understand that, except as expresslystated in this agreement, my terms and conditions of employment will be determined by theCounty's policies and rules, and that this agreement does not guarantee me employment forany set period of time. I have had sufficient time to study it away from the workplace and toconsult anyone I desire about it. I sign it free of any duress or coercion. This letter will becomepart of my personnel file.
______________________________________________________________(Employee) (Date) (Exempt Employee With (Date)Disciplinary Authority)
_______________________________(Employee's Immediate(Date)Exempt Supervisor)
_______________________________(Multnomah County             (Date)Labor Relations, if applicable)