Rule 3-35
Use of Information Technology
§§:
3-35-010 Purpose
3-35-020 Applicability
3-35-025 Definitions
3-35-030 Policy
3-35-040 Access and Control
3-35-045 Employee Privacy Expectations
3-35-050 Acceptable Use
3-35-055 Sanctions
3-35-060 Public Records Retention and Access
§ 3-35-010  Purpose
The purpose of this rule is to ensure that the use of information technology in the workplace is
consistent with information security best practices, federal and state laws, and county policies
and rules for public records, ethics, and conduct of employees. Volunteers and interns (paid or
unpaid) are also covered by this policy.
§ 3-35-020  Applicability
These rules apply to all forms of information technology, hereafter referred to as “systems,”
including but not limited to electronic systems such as email, fax, voicemail, internet,
computers, software, networks, mobile devices, smartphones, tablets, and internet
subscription or cloud-based services. Personal systems used for work purposes and county
owned systems provided for use from home or other locations are subject to this rule. Systems
owned and operated by third parties having a business relationship with the county who store
or process county information for county business purposes are subject to this rule.
§ 3-35-025  Definitions
● Access:  Rights an employee has to read or write electronic data, log in to county
owned or authorized systems, files, networks or execute applications using county
owned or authorized systems. For example, a user might be granted read access to a
file, meaning that the user can read the file, but cannot modify or delete it. Most systems
have several different types of access privileges that can be granted or denied to
specific users or groups of users. This definition also includes rights an employee has to
read, copy, retrieve, or otherwise make use of non-electronic data, information and/or
files of any kind.
● Authorized Approver: An individual identified at the department level who has the
ability to approve access to IT systems for their department.
● Cloud-based Services: Any service or internet subscription made available to users on
demand that is hosted on a cloud-computing provider's infrastructure as opposed to
being provided by the Multnomah County’s own on-premise infrastructure.
● County Authorization: Authorized by the county’s Chief Information Officer, one or
more elected officials, or individuals delegated such authority by aforementioned
persons under county procedures implementing this rule, and/or MCPR § 3-36 Social
Media Policy and/or MCPR § 3-37 Mobile Devices.
● Custodian of Records: The county official or employee who is responsible for
collecting and maintaining records whose retention is required under Oregon law.
● Department of Authorization: Authorization by the Department Director or designee.
● Disclose: To in any way, make known, reveal, or allow information to be seen by
another county employee or member of the public.
● Electronic Publishing: The activity of making information available for public review.
● Electronic Records: Data or information that has been captured and fixed for storage
and manipulation in an automated system and requires the use of that system to render
it intelligible by a person.
● Information Technology (IT): Any equipment or interconnected system or subsystem
of equipment that is used in the automatic acquisition, storage, manipulation,
management, movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or
reception of data or information.
● Mixed Use: Use that is not required for the job, but relates to county employment
and/or enhances the ability to perform job duties.
● Personally Identifiable Information (PII): Any information about an individual
maintained by Multnomah County, including (1) any information that can be used to
distinguish or trace an individual’s identity, such as name, social security number, date
and place of birth, mother‘s maiden name, or biometric records; and (2) any other
information that is linked or linkable to an individual, such as medical, educational,
financial, and employment information.  This includes all information protected by local,
state and federal laws and regulations. For specific examples, see Multnomah County
Administrative Procedure PII-O Personally Identifiable Information Definitions.
● Public Record: Documents, books, papers, photographs, files, sound recordings, or
machine readable electronic records, regardless of physical form or characteristics,
made, received, filed, or recorded pursuant to law or in connection with the transaction
of public business, whether or not confidential or restricted in use.  Public records do not
include extra copies of a record, preserved only for convenience of reference, or
messages on voicemail or other telephone message storage and retrieval systems.
● Service: The application of business and technical expertise to enable organizations in
the creation, management and optimization of or access to information and business
processes. A system which may include software, cloud-based services (such as
Software as a Service (SaaS)), and the associated systems that provide a means to
access data.
● System: A set of components for collecting, creating, storing, processing, and
distributing information, including but not limited to electronic systems, such as email,
fax, voicemail, internet, computers, software, networks, mobile devices, smartphones,
tablets, and internet subscription or cloud-based services.
● Software: A generic term used to describe computer programs; a set of instructions or
programs instructing a computer to do specific tasks, sometimes known as Scripts or
applications.  May also take the form of Software as a Service (SaaS), which is software
that is not installed on a local device but accessed through the internet (see cloud-
based service).
§ 3-35-030  Policy
A. The county encourages the use of electronic systems, communications, and information
technology to support the mission and business of the county. All systems and
information are the property of the county, except for personal devices used for work
purposes as provided in MCPR § 3-37 Mobile Devices and this rule. Employees may
use county-owned systems only for authorized county business except as otherwise
provided for in this rule and MCPR § 3-37 Mobile Devices.  Systems use must be
inoffensive, in accordance with all federal and state laws, county rules, regulations and
procedures established by county departments and work units, and reflect a positive
county image. Social media usage is a use of information technology.  As such, use of
social media during work hours or using county systems including county-issued cellular
devices and personal cellular devices approved for utilization for work purposes must
comply with MCPR § 3-36 Social Media Policy, MCPR § 3-30 Code of Ethics, MCPR §
3-37 Mobile Devices, and this rule.
B. County employees are permitted brief and infrequent personal use of county systems if
the use does not interfere with official business, is at virtually no cost to the county and
is in accordance with state ethics laws and rules. This limited personal use must take
place during the employee’s non-work time and is considered an incidental benefit
under MCPR § 4-20-110 Benefits: Incidental Benefits.
C. County-owned IT devices may be taken home or to other locations for work purposes by
employees with prior approval of their manager. All equipment shall be returned upon
separation from employment with the County.
§ 3-35-040  Access and Control
A. County Owned Devices
1. No part of county systems or information may become the private property of any
system user. The county reserves all legal rights to full access and ownership of
its systems, including to transfer or use all or any part or product thereof, and to
all information used in its systems. All uses must comply with this rule and all
other laws, rules, regulations, and procedures.
2. Information technology and electronic communications will be used only for
county business, except as otherwise provided in these rules. No one will be
granted access to data, systems or services without written authorization by a
Multnomah County Authorized Approver.  Authorized Approvers may not
authorize their own access to data, systems or services.
3. All software loaded on county systems must comply with software licensing
requirements and be approved by the county Information Technology (IT)
Department.
4. A user is not allowed to download or install any software or accept the terms of
any software or cloud service agreement including “click through” agreements
unless given written authorization from County IT (or DCA Procurement and
Contracting). These agreements include but are not limited to: End User License
(EULA), Software / Cloud Service Agreements or Terms of Use / Service.
5. All internet subscription and cloud based services must comply with licensing
requirements and be approved by the county Information Technology (IT)
Division.
6. When in a Multnomah County facility, personal devices may only connect to the
Multco Guest County Wi-Fi network.
B. County Systems Access
1. Employees only have the right to access county systems and information for
authorized purposes and in an authorized manner, and in accordance with any
relevant laws or policies.  Accessing county systems or information in non-
authorized ways is prohibited.  Employees are allowed to gain access to another
employee’s electronic mail, voicemail or other system files only as allowed by
MCPR § 3-35-050(B)(4) or with permission from a manager, and only if such
access is not prohibited by law or other policies.
2. Employees may not load privately owned, free, or shareware software on county
systems or devices, nor connect (i.e. wired, wireless connection or by any other
means) any privately owned device to a county system without county
authorization, regardless of purpose.
3. Under no circumstance should an employee share their personal passwords.
unless authorized to do so by their supervisors as required for an emergency.
Passwords should never be written down or in an unsecured manner. Employees
with administrative passwords or accounts will only use these passwords for
authorized purposes and in an authorized manner. A shared system password
may only be used with written permission by the County Security Officer.
4. Employees will not view, use, disclose or alter data in a county system for other
than business purposes or unless county authorization is received first. In all
cases, system event log data (including security and other operational logs) may
not be altered once written to the log.
C. Limiting or Revoking Access: The county may revoke or limit permission for use of
county systems for any or all personal or business uses at any time without cause or
explanation. Department Directors may issue department specific limitations on
personal use that are more restrictive than this rule.
D. Confidentiality of Systems and Information
1. Various county, state and federal laws, rules, regulations and policies restrict
access to and disclosure of confidential and sensitive data and information, such
as personally identifiable information. Employees will not disclose or allow
access to such sensitive and confidential information or data, except in
accordance with county or departmental rules, practices or procedures.
Employees with such access are responsible for the safekeeping and handling of
county systems to prevent unauthorized disclosure of financial, medical, and
other personal client or employee information, or any other confidential
information contained in a system.
2. Electronic data should be transported only as needed to conduct county
business.  All personally identifiable information that must be transported or
otherwise sent outside of county facilities must be encrypted with county
provided encryption technology or other county authorized mechanism.
Employees are required to ensure that data transported within or outside of
county facilities on laptops, or other storage devices are properly secured.
§ 3-35-045  Employee Privacy Expectations
A. County employees do not have a right, nor should they have an expectation of privacy
or confidentiality while using county systems, including but not limited to, electronic or
voicemail or use of social media. County employees do not have a right, nor should they
have an expectation of privacy or confidentiality regarding work records on their
personal cellular devices used for work purposes whether or not the employee is
compensated for its use per MCPR § 3-37 Mobile Devices.
B. The county may trace, review, audit, access, intercept, block, restrict, screen, delete,
recover, restore, publish, or disclose any information on county-owned systems at any
time without notice unless prohibited by law. The county has the right to access, monitor
and record all electronic and voicemail or other county-owned systems at any time and
without notice unless prohibited by law. The county will only monitor or record telephone
calls as permitted by federal and state law. The county may use this information in
disciplinary or other legal proceedings.
C. Upon request, employees will provide to the County any work records on personal
devices and third party websites used for work purposes, including but not limited to
emails, electronic documents, texts, chats, voicemails, and social media posts, whether
or not the employee is compensated for its use per MCPR § 3-37 Mobile Devices, to the
extent required by public records laws and other legal requirements. The county may
use this information in disciplinary or other legal proceedings.
§ 3-35-050  Acceptable Use
A. General Standards for Electronic Communications or Systems Access
1. Uses of county systems and personal mobile devices for work purposes do not
always have to be formal, but the usage must positively reflect the image of the
county.
2. All uses must be lawful and inoffensive. Uses of county systems and personal
mobile devices for work purposes must not be false, unlawful, offensive, or
disruptive. Unless county duty requires it, no use will contain profanity, vulgarity,
sexual content, or character slurs. No use will make rude or hostile reference to
race, color, sex, age, religion, national origin, political affiliation, marital status,
sexual orientation, gender identity, source of income, familial status, or physical
or mental disability, or otherwise violate county policy or law.  Use will not include
gambling or other potentially illegal activity. All uses must comply with federal,
state and county laws and regulations, and other county policies.
3. Copyrighted or licensed information of any kind will be used only with full legal
right to do so. For example, this rule requires that the county and all employees
using commercial software on its behalf must honor the licensing agreements
that govern the use of that software.
B. Internet and Email Use
1. Employees may access or download information from internet sites for official
business subject to county or other departmental procedures.
2. Employees may not download software, shareware, or music from the internet
without county authorization from the County Information Technology (IT)
Division.
3. Many internet and email groups exist to share useful information. An employee
may post job-related queries or comments to professional group message
boards, listservs or emails with manager authorization. Comments must conform
to this rule. Content and frequency of posting must reflect county interests, not
the users'.
4. Department Human Resources Units, Central Human Resources, and the
County Attorney’s Office may request reports detailing employee usage of
county-owned mobile devices, and internet and email usage on county-owned
systems.  These reports include information that specifies internet sites
employees accessed or attempted to access, how long employees spent on
internet sites, and copies of emails or similar messages sent and received, and
how and when employees accessed County-owned facilities.  Managers who
believe they need access to usage reports shall contact their Department Human
Resources Unit for approval to access such reports.
5. The county prohibits the global (automatic) forwarding of email to an email
account not managed by Multnomah County unless explicitly authorized by the
County Security Officer.  Protected health information may never be forwarded to
an employee’s personal email account.
6. Sending or selectively forwarding email that contains Protected Health
Information (PHI) is only allowed if the employee first verifies the identity and
authority of the recipient, the disclosure of protected health information is a part
of an approved workflow, and the email is encrypted using county provided
encryption technology.
7. When posting on social media for non-work purposes, employees may not use
their county job title, email address or other information showing county affiliation
in a way that indicates they are acting as county employees.
C. Publishing Electronically
1. All publishing is restricted to county business as defined by departments and
requires department authorization, including posting using social media, unless
allowed in other sections of this rule.
2. Department or county-wide e-mail messages require department or county
authorization.  Events which mix county and personal business, such as
charitable drives, employee retirements, celebrations, or whatever the
department deems suitably related to department business may be published
with department authorization.
D. Personal Use of County Systems
E. Any personal use must comply with all personnel rules and must be consistent with the
following:
1. Personal use of county systems, including information technology tools, must
always be at virtually no cost to the county, and brief and infrequent.  In addition
to uses which have a direct cost, such as making toll calls, personal uses which
have an indirect cost are also prohibited, including but not limited to uses which
require significant data storage or data transmission (bandwidth) capacity.
Examples include, but are not limited to, sending or receiving personal emails
with large file attachments, personal emails which contain graphics, photos, or
sound files, and storing large files of any kind on shared servers or local drives.
2. Personal use must be brief and infrequent in terms of time used as compared to
use for assigned work and may only be done during breaks and non-work hours.
Accessing personal emails through internet providers such as AOL, Yahoo! or
Google, must be done in such a way as to ensure county systems are not
compromised by viruses or other threats. Employees should not open emails
using the county systems unless the sender is known to them. More specific
rules for the use of mobile devices are included in MCPR § 3-37 Mobile Devices.
3. Permissible personal uses include:
a. A brief e-mail;
b. A brief text message;
c. A short toll-free fax;
d. Copying or printing a small number of personal papers, provided the use
of equipment is brief and infrequent, and does not interfere with county
business;
e. Brief and infrequent use of a personal computer;
f. Brief and infrequent web searches for personal research, or self-study;
g. Brief and infrequent postings using social media if the content or purpose
is personal;
h. A brief and infrequent telephone call;
i. A brief and infrequent toll call that is not charged to the county;
j. Brief and infrequent storage of copies of personal electronic files, e.g.,
photographs, documents, and digital music, so long as they have been
virus scanned with any software the County has made available for that
purpose;
k. If the employee is not assigned a county desk phone the employee may
use a county-issued mobile device in the same manner as a desk phone
so long as it amounts to virtually no cost to the county, or if it results in
additional cost for the county, the employee will reimburse the county for
the added cost; and
l. Data streaming on a county-owned computer or mobile device provided
there is no interference with county business including impacts on county
data storage or transmission (bandwidth) capacity.  For county-owned
cellular devices, a Wi-Fi connection must be used for data streaming, and
not the county’s mobile data plan.
4. Mixed use: Permissible mixed county and personal uses of county systems
include downloading, printing and photocopying a county job application,
personnel and benefits papers, and necessary material for county paid courses
of study, so long as such usage is brief and infrequent.
5. Prohibited personal uses include but are not limited to:
a. Except as provided above in MCPR § 3-35-050(D)(3) and in MCPR § 3-
37, toll calls, any service for fee, and downloading software or shareware;
b. Personal soliciting;
c. Lobbying, soliciting, recruiting, selling, or persuading for or against
commercial ventures, products, religious or political causes, outside
organizations, or similar activities;
d. Using county systems or allowing others to use them on behalf of any
organization or third party;
e. Internet games, personal games, and internet gambling sites may not be
used or accessed except as authorized for work purposes. Games that
come with software may be used only with department authorization for
work purposes. The games will be used without sound and only where not
visible to the public. County owned or licensed games created to teach
needed knowledge or skill may be used with department authorization for
work purposes;
f. An employee may not use a county issued device for the purpose of
operating a personal business; and
g. No privately owned device may be physically connected (hardwired or
wireless) to county systems without county authorization. System devices
taken home or for use off county premises remain subject to this rule.
§ 3-35-055  Sanctions
Employees who engage in improper use of information technology and electronic
communications under this rule are subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.
§ 3-35-060  Electronic Records Retention and Access
A. Electronic records stored on county information systems are public records. As such,
the records are subject to the same laws and rules for public inspection and retention
that apply to all other county records, including but not limited to the state public records
laws and rules, county Executive Rule 266 and county Multnomah County
Administrative Procedure REC-1.  Employees should refer to the retention schedules for
their Department to determine what must be retained and what can be destroyed.
Retention schedules are available at http://web.multco.us/records/retention-schedules
on the Records Management website.
B. Electronic records may not be destroyed without proper authorization, either via a
retention schedule published on the Multnomah County Records Management website
or through direct consultation with a records management analyst. See Multnomah
County Administrative Procedure REC-1.
C. Upon receipt of a valid request, the custodian of electronic records must make the
records available for inspection by the public and copying unless the records are
exempt from disclosure.  See Multnomah County Administrative Procedure REC-2.
D. Requests by the public for copies of or to inspect electronic records must comply with
Multnomah County Administrative Procedure REC-2, including review by the County
Attorney’s Office (as applicable), and any Department or Division policies.
E. The county may collect reasonable fees for making electronic records available for
inspection or copying.  Departments/Custodians may establish rules for access to
records in order to protect the integrity of the records or to prevent interference with
county business.  Departments are encouraged to post fee schedules and access rules.
F. Whether a public record is exempt from public disclosure shall be determined by the
County Attorney’s Office based on its nature and content, regardless of the form in
which the record is preserved.
G. Employees must follow all county procedures for retention and management of
electronic county records stored on non-county owned information systems or mobile
devices. Records in non-county owned systems with retention periods of five years or
longer must have a preservation plan approved by a records management analyst in
order to reduce risk of loss or obsolescence during the full retention period, and for
portability to a new information system or for duplication in response to a public records
request.