BEFORE THE MULTNOMAH COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT BOARD
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
RESOLUTION NO. 2024-102
Approving Negotiation, Sale and Leaseback of the Gresham Library building, 385 NW
Miller Ave., Gresham, to the City of Gresham.
The Multnomah County Library District Board Finds:
A. The Gresham Library building (“Property”) is used by the Multnomah County
Library District (“MCL”) as the Gresham Library branch. MCL is building a new
East County Library building less than one mile away, at 1297 NW Eastman
Pkwy, Gresham. Upon completion of the new library, the Property will no longer
be needed for MCL purposes and the proceeds from the disposition are currently
planned to be directed toward the East County Library capital bond project
budget. Library operations at the Property will transfer to the new library once it is
complete.
B. During the period between the sale of the Property and transfer of operations to
the new library, library operations will continue at the Property pursuant to the
lease terms that will be negotiated with the future owner.
C. The Multnomah County Director of Facilities & Property Management Division
(“Director”) has determined that there is no other suitable current or anticipated
MCL or County use for the Property, other than continued library operations until
transfer of those operations to the new library. Accordingly, in Resolution 2024-
091 (October 17, 2024), the Board declared the Property surplus and directed
County staff to prepare the property for disposition and solicit public comment
through a 21 day public comment period.
D. MCL received two comments during the public comment period which was held
between October 17 and November 7, 2024. MCL also received two letters of
intent to purchase the property, one from the City of Gresham and one from the
Gresham-Barlow School District.
E. Staff has complied with the Board’s directives and the Director recommends sale
and leaseback of the Property to the City of Gresham, believing it is in the best
interests of MCL.
F. It is in the best interests of MCL to act on the Director's recommendation.
The Multnomah County Library District Board Resolves:
1. It is in the best interests of MCL to sell the Property to the City of Gresham, with
a leaseback provision until the opening of the East County Library on the terms
and conditions agreed to by the Chair.
2. The Chair is authorized to execute all documents necessary to complete the sale
and lease of the Property; and is further authorized to direct staff to satisfy all
conditions of the sale and lease agreement to ensure a timely closing of the sale
and due performance of the lease.
3. The Board of County Commissioners will be supplied with the executed sales
agreement, including all terms of the sales agreement, upon commencement of
the transaction.
ADOPTED this 21st day of November, 2024.
MULTNOMAH COUNTY
LIBRARY DISTRICT BOARD
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
 SUBMITTED BY: Tracey Massey, Director, DCA and CIO
Jesse Beason, Vice Chair
By
     Andrew MacKendrick, Sr. Asst. County Attorney