BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS FOR MULTNOMAH
COUNTY, OREGON
PROCLAMATION NO. 2022-079
Proclaiming September 2022 as Recovery Month in Multnomah County, Oregon.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. Recovery Month is celebrated every September to promote the right and resources
for recovery through advocacy, education and demonstrating the power and proof
that people can and do achieve long-term recovery goals.
b. We call attention to the tremendous work of peers, providers, community members
and county staff to ensure that effective, trauma-informed, and culturally responsive
prevention, harm reduction, treatment and recovery services are available for all of
our community members who are impacted by substance use.
c. Over the past two and a half years, our communities have lived through Covid, and
social unrest due to generations of systemic racism, deepening the impact of
economic, social, and health disruptions. We have seen an increase in substance
use, overdose and battling COVID-related stress and isolation - during which we
saw a higher acuity of substance use as well as new, more harmful forms of
substances like fentanyl and methamphetamine.
d. In spite of this, inspiring, positive stories of recovery continue to emerge. People
find hope and healing in the way that best suits who they are. There is no one
“right” way, but rather a continuous journey that includes prevention, harm
reduction, housing, employment support, treatment, and peer recovery support.
e. We applaud state and CCO investments in workforce development, treatment
reimbursement rates, and substance use services through multiple legislative
actions. These efforts will lead to a more diverse workforce and service continuum
that will benefit all Multnomah County residents.
f. A wave of new programs have been fueled by progressive thinking that moves
away from strict abstinence models to include trauma-informed harm reduction
policies, including peer delivered services designed to reduce barriers and support
individual goals without abstinence requirements.
g. We also celebrate the innovation and partnership building work of the many
community based organizations throughout Multnomah County. Multiple Behavioral
Health Resource Networks (BHRNs) stemmed from a proactive, collaborative
process. For example, the Indigeninity and Latinx/a/o BHRNs focus on culturally
specific and linguistic services in addition to partnership with new harm reduction
programs, including those offering recovery housing. These organizations have
been creative in addressing the residential treatment gap.
h. Multnomah County is making new investments in Peer Delivered Services that will
equip peers to serve persons with both substance use and mental health needs,
and further strengthen the growing number of culturally specific peer recovery
services. This includes expanding our Office of Consumer Engagement and how
we are designing the new Behavioral Health Resource Center.
i. Most promising, perhaps, is the growing integration of people with lived experience
taking on roles as peer recovery mentors. Outcomes show that programs
employing peers see greater success in helping individuals along the path to
recovery. For example, 4D Recovery, which runs peer-supported programs,
reported a 39% increase in the number of clients served in the first half of 2022
over the same timeframe in 2021. Peers working in programs run by community
organizations, such as the Mental Health and Addictions Association of Oregon
and Fora Health,, are able to more deeply connect with individuals as they share
their similar stories of struggle, hope and change in their recovery journeys.
j. Multnomah County has prioritized culturally specific services and supports across
the continuum of care as demonstrated through directing new county and one time
state investment funds to these organizations. In the past fiscal year, we’ve added
or expanded contracts with culturally specific partners such as Painted Horse,
Miracles, Northwest Instituto Latino, Puentes and Faithbridge to meet the needs of
communities that are most impacted by health disparities, including Black,
Indigenous and other People of Color. We strive to apply a Racial Equity lens to
each of our investments and in our decision-making efforts.
k. Recovery is about more than substance use. Multnomah County is committed to
creating a system of support that addresses the whole person, whether the need is
substance use, gambling, mental health, or physical health. People don’t live in
silos, nor should our services.
l. Behavioral health is vital to overall health and well-being, and should be treated -
and improvements celebrated - with the same urgency as other conditions such as
hypertension, diabetes, and heart disease.
m. With Recovery Month, we celebrate movement away from past stigma surrounding
substance use and gambling disorders, toward a brighter future of resilience and
successful recovery. This community - individuals in recovery, their families and the
multitude of committed providers and staff who serve them - is only growing
stronger. Multnomah County will continue to seek new ways to expand access and
support, and offer new resources.
n. Every journey of recovery contributes to healthier communities, improved
relationships, increased stability, and opportunities to use lived experience to
promote recovery for others.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
The month of September 2022 is proclaimed to be Recovery Month in Multnomah County,
Oregon. All county residents are invited to commit to continuing support of recovery for
those impacted by substance use disorders. This month, we invite you to celebrate those
who are achieving their goals for recovery and wellness, and encourage you to share
information about programs, resources and services to help others take their first steps
toward a healthier life.
ADOPTED this 8th day of September, 2022.
SUBMITTED BY: Julie Dodge, Interim Director of Behavioral Health Division.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Lori Stegmann, Vice-Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By
     Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney