BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON  PROCLAMATION NO. 2023-078   Proclaiming the Month of September 2023 as Sickle Cell Awareness Month in Multnomah County.  The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:  1. September was designated by Congress as National Sickle Cell Awareness Month to help focus attention on the need for research and treatment of sickle cell disease.  2. Sickle cell disease is a global health problem affecting millions of people worldwide, including over 100,000 Americans, and nearly 200 newborns in Oregon yearly.  3. Sickle cell disease is an inherited blood disorder in which red blood cells may become sickle-shaped and hardened, and is most common in people with an ancestry of Africa, South America, the Caribbean, Central America, Saudi Arabia, India, and Mediterranean countries such as Turkey, Greece, and Italy.  4. Sickle cell disease shortens the lifespan of its victims while afflicting pain and damages to vital organs.  5. Sickle cell trait is also an inherited condition in which one sickle cell gene and one normal gene is received at the time of conception and may be passed on to infants, and in certain situations may cause complications of sickle cell disease such as painful episodes.  6. There are 2.5 million people in America living with sickle cell trait; 1 in approximately 500 suffer from this painful disease; and it is imperative to inform and educate the general public that while there is no known common cure, the disease is treatable.  7. Sickle cell disease imposes great psychological pain and suffering; there is a lack of education and awareness regarding sickle cell disease, which generates public misconceptions, affects attitudes, employment, and healthcare access.  8. Early screening and identification of sickle cell disease, effective community awareness, personal sensitivity by community members and care providers, medical service provider education regarding sickle cell disease, and culturally sensitive practices and policies by healthcare providers, clinics, emergency departments, and hospitals can lighten the impact this disease imposes.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
September 2023 as Sickle Cell Awareness Month in Multnomah County and encourages all
residents to join in this observance.
ADOPTED this 21st day of September, 2023.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Chair Jessica Vega Pederson
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By
     Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney
Submitted by: Commissioner Sharon Meieran, District 1