BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTYCOMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
PROCLAMATION NO.2021-022
Proclaiming the Month of April as Child Abuse Prevention Month in Multnomah County,
Oregon.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. Child abuse and neglect is a serious public health and safety problem that impacts all of
our community, and finding solutions requires input and action from everyone.
b. According to the most recent published Oregon Department of Human Services Child
Welfare Data Book published in 2020, there were 89,451 reports of child abuse and
neglect in Oregon in 2019.  In Multnomah County, there were 17,236 reports of abuse
and neglect. The most common family stress factor when child abuse was present was
substance abuse.   The next most common stressors were domestic violence.
c. Child abuse and neglect has long-term, physical, psychological, emotional and social
effects that have lasting consequences for survivors of abuse into adulthood.
d. Due to the global pandemic this past year, the challenges to protecting children were
more acutely felt; reporting to the Oregon Child Abuse Hotline declined as children had
less frequent contact with mandatory reporters.
e. All of us in Multnomah County must work together to increase awareness about child
abuse and contribute to promote the social and emotional well‐being of children and
families in a safe, stable, nurturing environment.
f. We must all recognize the signs of child maltreatment and take appropriate steps to
safeguard children by reporting concerns and connecting families with the help they may
need.
g. Effective child abuse prevention and intervention efforts succeed because of coordinated
partnerships between government, child welfare, health, schools, law enforcement and
community organizations.
h. That foster and adoptive parents, child protective workers, faith leaders, community
mentors, medicine, mental health, teachers, and law enforcement officials, all have a role
in protecting and supporting children who have been tragically abused or neglected.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
1. The Month of April, 2021 as Child Abuse Prevention Month in Multnomah County.
2. The Board of County Commissioners call upon our community to support the effort to
prevent child abuse, protect children and strengthen families.
ADOPTED this 15h day of April, 2021.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
___________________
Deborah Kafoury, Chair
SUBMITTED JOINTLY BY: Multnomah County Multidisciplinary Child Abuse Team