BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
RESOLUTION NO.  2022-069
Approving Library Capital Bond Program Operations Center FAC -1 Construction Plan and
authorizing the County Chair to Execute a Guaranteed Maximum Price Amendment.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners (“Board”) previously adopted Resolution
2020-057 on June 25, 2020, authorizing submission to the voters of the County a measure
election with the question of contracting general obligation bonded indebtedness in the
an aggregate principal amount of not to exceed $387,000,000 to finance capital costs,
and repealing certain provisions of Resolution No. 2020-014.
b. On November 3, 2020, voters approved Measure 26 -211 “Bonds to Expand, Renovate,
Construct Library Branches, Facilities; Increase Safety,” which authorized the County to
issue general obligation bonds to finance capital costs for updating, renovating,
constructing, and refreshing libraries across the county.
c. In June 2021, the County adopted the FY22 budget, including $387,000,000 for the
Library Capital Bond Program (LCBP).
d. In October 2021, through Resolution 2021 -079, the Board approved the FAC -1 Library
Capital Bond Program Plan, including Program and Project charter and scopes, estimated
project costs and schedules, the funding strategy develope d in cooperation with the
County's Chief Financial Officer, and design phases.
e. Pursuant to Administrative Procedure FAC-1 and the Library Capital Bond Program Plan,
a FAC-1 Operations Center GMP has been prepared, including  a review of the project
goals, design effort to date, sustainability status, DEI (Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion)
efforts, the project budget, the project schedule, and next steps.
f. In September 2021, Multnomah County purchased the building and land located at 221
NE 122nd Avenue, Portland, Oregon, to be used for the Library Operations Center.
g. Hennebery Eddy Architects, Inc. was selected to perform design services. Project design
is now complete and in alignment with programmatic and regulatory requirements.
h. Fortis Construction Inc. (“Fortis”) was selected as CM/GC to perform pre-construction
services and to negotiate a guaranteed maximum price for construction services, and, if
approved by the Board, execute an amendment to the CM/GC Contract authorizing Fortis
to proceed with construction of the Project at that price (“GMP Amendment”).
i. In May 2022, the Project received approval from Portland Bureau of Developmental
Services for a Type II Design Review as Case Number File LU 22-101625 DZM. The
Land Use Decision was recorded against the property under filing 2022-049819.
j. The Project budget totals $62.5 Million. The negotiated guaranteed maximum price for
construction services is $37,500,529.15.
k. The Project Team recommends Board approval of the LCBP FAC -1 Operations Center
GMP Amendment and Construction Phase.
l. Approval of the Plan and GMP Amendment is in the best interests of Multnomah County.
Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves:
1. The Plan is approved and the Project Team is authorized to proceed with the next steps
in the construction phase development of the LCBP Operations Center.
2. The County Chair is authorized to execute a GMP Amendment for the LCBP Operations
Center, together with any amendments or any other ancillary instruments, provided that
further Board approval shall be obtained with respect to any modification or amendment
that results in a material increase in the obligations of the County or a material decrease
in the benefits to the County under the Guaranteed Maximum Price Amendment.
ADOPTED this 30th day of June, 2022.
  BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Deborah Kafoury, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By
     Andrew MacKendrick, Sr. Asst. County Attorney
SUBMITTED BY:  Tracey Massey, Director, Department of County Assets