Rev. 3/21/2017 - Board Clerk is authorized to correct any cross references and typographical errors, as needed.
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
PROCLAMATION NO.  2021-035
Proclaiming May 2021 as Mental Health Month in Multnomah County, Oregon.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. Supporting mental health in our community is an essential part of our overall wellness.   All
people, including those experiencing mental health challenges, are valuable to our
community and deserve to be safe, healthy, live with dignity, and thrive.
b. Throughout the pandemic, people of al l ages who had never experienced mental health
challenges found themselves struggling for the first time. In the past year, the number of
people experiencing mental health challenges jumped from 20% to 44%.  Multnomah County
responded to the pandemic by maintaining in-person services wherever possible, increasing
telehealth support, including an expanded role for the Call Center.  Now more than ever, it is
critical to reduce the stigma around mental health challenges that commonly prevents
individuals from seeking help.
c. Black, Indigenous and other People of Color are disproportionately affected by mental health
challenges. Lack of access to racially specific treatment and other consequences of current
and historical trauma can lead to higher rates of persis tent symptoms and
disability.  Multnomah County is committed to supporting organizations providing racially
specific treatment and increasing outreach to BIPOC community members.
d. Treatment for mental health issues is as important as care for our physical health.  In fact,
mental health conditions can cause or worsen other health problems and can also contribute
to homelessness, employment difficulties, relationship issues, and financial
problems.  Fortunately, there are practical tools that everyone can use to improve their mental
health and increase resiliency.  There is hope. Help is available, and people can -- and do --
recover.
e. Anyone experiencing mental health concerns deserves access to high-quality, individualized
services that are racially specifi c, affordable, and include peer -support. Multnomah County
provides mental health services that meet people where they are and support their goals for
recovery, at every stage of life.
f. Multnomah County is committed to raising awareness about the early signs of mental illness,
which may include changes in social behavior, changes in mood or emotions, eating or
sleeping habits, substance use, difficulty coping with problems and engaging in daily
activities.
g. Just like with physical health, early intervent ion and prevention for mental health can
sometimes help prevent mental illness, lessen the severity, and increase the opportunities for
recovery. Early and effective treatment for people experiencing mental health challenges
result in better care, better outcomes and lower costs.
h. Multnomah County offers mental health education and suicide prevention trainings to better
equip members of our community to recognize a developing mental health concern or crisis
in ourselves and others, to engage with the person,  to connect the person to resources and
Rev. 3/21/2017 - Board Clerk is authorized to correct any cross references and typographical errors, as needed.
to act effectively until professional help is available. These trainings help people, including
ourselves, get the help they need and save lives.
i. Multnomah County will continue to collaborate with criminal justice, public safety and
community treatment providers to identify inequities and reduce incarceration among people
experiencing mental illness. Multnomah County recognizes that many institutions and
organizations themselves can cause trauma, and will do  all that it can to ensure that people
suffering from mental health challenges do not experience added institutional trauma.
j. Multnomah County will continue to collaborate with housing funders and providers to support
and expand appropriate, low barrier, a ffordable long term housing for persons who live with
persistent mental health challenges, recognizing that housing is health.
k. Multnomah County will continue to work with peers and individuals with lived experience
toward building an inclusive, accepting, and thoughtful community where individuals with
mental health challenges are not stigmatized, and are valued and treated with the respect,
dignity and compassion to which we all are entitled.
l. Multnomah County is committed to supporting the development an d renewal of resilience in
all people. People who live with mental health challenges are not always viewed as resilient.
Multnomah County sees their resilience and affirms their perseverance, experience, wisdom
and voice.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
The month of May 2021 is proclaimed to be Mental Health Month in Multnomah County, Oregon. We
invite all residents of Multnomah County to observe this month with a commitment to increasing
awareness and understanding of mental health and the steps our citizens can take to assure mental
wellness and build resilience for all individuals in our community.
ADOPTED this 27th day of May, 2021.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Deborah Kafoury, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By
     Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney
SUBMITTED BY: Julie Dodge, Interim Behavioral Health Division Director