Page 1 – Authorizing the issuance, sale and delivery of general obligation bonds;
designating an authorized representative; authorizing the execution and delivery of
financial documents and related matters
3523274.8 043987  RSIND
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON

RESOLUTION NO. 2020-103

Authorizing the issuance, sale and delivery of general obligation bonds; designating an
authorized representative; authorizing the execution and delivery of financial documents
and related matters

The Multnomah County Board Of Commissioners Finds:

a. The Board of Commissioners (the “ Board”) of Multnomah County, Oregon (the
“County”), is authorized pursuant to the Oregon Constitution an d ORS 287A.100
to issue general obligation bonds to finance capital costs; and

b. The issuance of the bonds will not result in the County exceeding the debt limit in
ORS 287A.100(2) which states that “[u]nless the county charter provides a lesser
limitation, a county may not issue or have outstanding at the time of issuance
general obligation bonds in a principal amount that exceeds two percent of the real
market value of the taxable property in the county, cal culated as provided in
ORS 308.207”; and

c. On June  25, 2020, the County adopted Resolution No. 2020 -057 authorizing
submission to the voters of the County at a measure election on November  3,
2020, the question of contracting a general obligation bonded ind ebtedness in an
amount not to exceed $387,000,000 to finance capital costs as set forth in the
notice of bond election and pay bond issuance costs; and

d. The election was duly and legally held on November 3, 2020, and, within 20 days
following the election, the elections officer of the County certified that the issuance
of the general obligation bonds was approved by a majority of the qualified voters
of the County voting at the election; and

e. The Board determined the results of the election as required pursuant to
Multnomah County Code § 5.106(E) on December 3, 2020; and

f. The County adopts this resolution (the “Resolution”) to provide the terms under
which the general obligation bonds will be sold and issued; to authorize the
issuance of the general obligation bonds; and to classify the ad valorem taxes
levied to pay debt service on the general obligation bonds as not being s ubject to
the limits of Sections 11 and 11b, Article XI of the Oregon Constitution.

Page 2 – Authorizing the issuance, sale and delivery of general obligation bonds;
designating an authorized representative; authorizing the execution and delivery of
financial documents and related matters
3523274.8 043987  RSIND
The Multnomah County Board Of Commissioners Resolves:

1. BONDS AUTHORIZED. The County hereby authorizes the issuance of general
obligation bonds (the “Bonds”) in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed
$387,000,000, issued in one or more series, to finance the projects set forth in
the ballot title for the Bonds.

2. The Bonds shall mature over a period not exceeding nine years from their date
of issue. The remaining terms of the Bonds shall be established as provided in
Section 10 hereof.

3. DESIGNATION OF AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE. The Board designates
the Chief Financial Officer (the “ Authorized Representative”) or a designee of
the Authorized Representative to act on be half of the County as specified in
Section 10 hereof.

4. SECURITY. Pursuant to ORS 287A.315, the County hereby pledges its full faith
and credit and taxing power to pay the Bonds. The County hereby covenants
for the benefit of those who shall own the Bonds from time to time (the “Owners”)
to levy annually, as necessary, a direct ad valor em tax upon all of the taxable
property within the County which is sufficient, after taking into consideration
discounts taken and delinquencies that may occur in the payment of such taxes
and other legally available amounts, to pay all Bond principal and interest when
due. This tax shall be in addition to all other taxes of the County, and this tax
shall not be limited in rate, amount or otherwise, by Sections 11 or 11b of Article
XI of the Oregon Constitution.

5. FORM OF BONDS . The Bonds shall be issued in substantially the form as
approved by the Authorized Representative. The Bonds may be printed or
typewritten, and may be issued as one or more temporary Bonds which shall be
exchangeable for definitive Bonds when definitive Bonds are available.

6. EXECUTION OF BONDS. The Bonds shall be executed on behalf of the County
with the manual or facsimile signature of an Authorized Representative of the
County.

7. REDEMPTION. The Bonds may be subject to optional redemption or mandatory
redemption prior to maturity as determined under Section 10 hereof.

8. TAX-EXEMPT STATUS. If any portion of the Bonds are issued as federally tax-
exempt Bonds, the County covenants to use the portion of those proceeds of
the Bonds, and the facilities financed with such Bonds, and to otherwise comply
with the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
“Code”), so that interest paid on such Bonds will not be includable in gross

Page 3 – Authorizing the issuance, sale and delivery of general obligation bonds;
designating an authorized representative; authorizing the execution and delivery of
financial documents and related matters
3523274.8 043987  RSIND
income of the Owners for federal income tax purposes. The County specifically
covenants:

i. to comply with the “arbitrage” provisions of Section 148 of the Code, and to
pay any rebates to the United States on the gross proceeds of such Bonds;
and

ii. to operate the facilities financed with the proceeds of such Bonds so that
such Bonds are not “private activity bonds” under Section 141 of the Code;
and

iii. comply with all reporting requirements.

The Authorized Representative may enter into covenants on behalf of the
County to protect the tax-exempt status of such Bonds.

9. DESIGNATION AS A “QUALIFIED TAX -EXEMPT OBLIGATION” . The
Authorized Representative, upon the advice of Bond Counsel, may designate
any series of the Bonds as a “qualified tax -exempt obligation” pursuant to
Section 265(b)(3)(B) of the Code.

10. DELEGATION FOR ESTABLI SHMENT OF TERMS AND SALE OF THE
BONDS. The Authorized Representative is hereby authorized, on behalf of the
County without further action of the Board (and such actions of the Authorized
Representative, if taken prior to the adoption of th e Resolution, are  hereby
affirmed and authorized), to:

i. establish the principal and interest payment dates, principal amounts,
interest rates, denominations, redemption provisions and all other terms for
the Bonds be issued;

ii. select an underwriter and proceed with a publicly offered sale of the Bonds
or select a bank or other financial institution through a direct purchase or
placement agent selected by the Authorized Representative;

iii. negotiate the terms of a bond purchase agr eement with the underwriter or
lender, or conduct a competitive sale, as determined by the Authorized
Representative;

iv. determine if all or a portion of the Bonds shall be issued as federally tax-
exempt or taxable obligations;

Page 4 – Authorizing the issuance, sale and delivery of general obligation bonds;
designating an authorized representative; authorizing the execution and delivery of
financial documents and related matters
3523274.8 043987  RSIND
v. enter into covenants regarding the use of the proceeds of the Bonds and
the projects financed with the proceeds of the Bonds, and covenants to
maintain the tax-exempt status of the Bonds, if applicable;

vi. appoint a registrar and paying agent for the Bonds, if necessary;

vii. take such actions as are necessary to qualify the Bonds for the book -entry
only system of The Depository Trust Company if required;

viii. approve of and authorize the distribution of the preliminary and final official
statements for the Bonds, if required;

ix. obtain one or more ratings on the Bonds if determined by the Authorized
Representative to be in the best interest of the County, and expend Bond
proceeds to pay the costs of obtaining such rating;

x. apply, if available and deemed appropriate, an d expend Bond proceeds to
pay any insurance premium;

xi. approve, execute and deliver a Continuing Disclosure Certificate pursuant
to SEC Rule 15c2 -12, as amended (17 CFR Part 240, § 240.15c2 -12), if
required;

xii. approve, execute and deliver the Bond closing documents and certificates;

xiii. make any clarifying changes or additional covenants not inconsistent with
this Resolution; and

xiv. execute and deliver a certificate specifying the action taken by the
Authorized Representative pursuant to this Section  10(xiv) and any other
certificates, documents or agreements that the Authorized Representative
determines are desirable to issue, sell and deliver the Bonds in accordance
with this Resolution.

11. DEFAULT AND REMEDIES.  The occurrence of one or more of the following
shall constitute an Event of Default under this Resolution and the Bonds:

i. Failure by the County to pay Bond principal, interest or premium when due
(whether at maturity, or upon redemption after a Bond has been properly
called for redemption);

ii. Failure by the County to observe and perform any covenant, condition or
agreement on its part to be observed or performed for the benefit of Owners,
for a period of 60 days after written notice to the County by the Owners  of

Page 5 – Authorizing the issuance, sale and delivery of general obligation bonds;
designating an authorized representative; authorizing the execution and delivery of
financial documents and related matters
3523274.8 043987  RSIND
51% or more of the principal amount of Bonds then Outstanding specifying
such failure and requesting that it be remedied; provided however, that if
the failure stated in the notice cannot be corrected within such 60 day
period, it shall not constitute an Event of Default so long as corrective action
is instituted by the County within the 60 day period and diligently pursued,
and the default is corrected as promptly as practicable after the written
notice referred to in this paragraph; or

iii. The County is  adjudged insolvent by a court of competent jurisdiction,
admits in writing its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due,
files a petition in bankruptcy, or consents to the appointment of a receiver
for the payments.

The Owners of 51% or mo re of the principal amount of Bonds then
Outstanding may waive any Event of Default and its consequences, except
an Event of Default as described in Section 11(i).

Upon the occurrence and continuance of any Event of Default hereunder
the Owners of 51% or  more of the principal amount of Bonds then
Outstanding may take whatever action may appear necessary or desirable
to enforce or to protect any of the rights of the Owners, either at law or in
equity or in bankruptcy or otherwise, whether for the specific enforcement
of any covenant or agreement contained in this Resolution or the Bonds or
in aid of the exercise of any power granted in this Resolution or in the Bonds
or for the enforcement of any other legal or equitable right vested in the
Owners by the Resolution or the Bonds or by law. However, the Bonds shall
not be subject to acceleration.

No remedy in the Resolution conferred upon or reserved to Owners is
intended to be exclusive and every such remedy shall be cumulative and
shall be in addition to every other remedy given under the Resolution or now
or hereafter existing at law or in equity. No delay or omission to exercise
any right or power accruing upon any default shall be construed to be a
waiver thereof, but any such right and power may be exercised from time to
time and as often as may be deemed expedient. To entitle the Owners to
exercise any remedy reserved to them, it shall not be necessary to give any
notice other than such notice as may be required by this Resolution or by
law.

12. DEFEASANCE. The County may defease the Bonds by setting aside, with a
duly appointed escrow agent, in a special escrow account irrevocably pledged
to the payment of the Bonds to be defeased, cash or direct obligations of the
United States in an amount w hich, in the opinion of an independent certified
public accountant, is sufficient without reinvestment to pay all principal and

Page 6 – Authorizing the issuance, sale and delivery of general obligation bonds;
designating an authorized representative; authorizing the execution and delivery of
financial documents and related matters
3523274.8 043987  RSIND
interest on the defeased Bonds until their maturity date or any earlier redemption
date. Bonds which have been defeased pursuant  to this Section shall be
deemed paid and no longer outstanding, and shall cease to be entitled to any
lien, benefit or security under this Resolution except the right to receive payment
from such special escrow account.

13. ESTABLISHMENT OF FUNDS AND ACCOUNT S. The following funds and
accounts shall be created into which the proceeds of the Bonds shall be
deposited, which funds and accounts shall be continually maintained, except as
otherwise provided, so long as the Bonds remain unpaid.

i. Debt Service Account. The County shall maintain the debt service account
in the County’s debt service fund for the payment of principal, premium, if
any, and interest on the Bonds as they become due. All accrued interest, if
any, and all taxes levied and other moneys available for the payment of the
Bonds shall be deposited to the debt service account.

ii. Project Fund. The County shall maintain the project fund for the purpose of
accounting for and paying all costs of the projects and the costs related to
the preparation, authorization, issuance, and sale of the Bonds. Any interest
earnings on moneys invested from the project fund shall be retained in the
project fund. The County’s share of any liquidated damages or other
moneys paid by defaulting contractors or their sureties will be deposited into
the project fund to assure the completion of the projects.

Upon completion of the projects and upon payment in full of all costs related
thereto, any balance remaining in the project fund shall be deposited to the
Debt Service Account for payment of debt service.

14. RESOLUTION TO CONSTITUTE CONTRACT . In consideration of the
purchase and acceptance of any or all of the Bonds by the Owners, the
provisions of this Resolution shall be part of the contract of the County with the
Owners and shall be deemed to be and shall constitute a contract between the
County and the Owners. The covenants, pledges, representations and
warranties contained in this Resolution or in the closing documents executed in
connection with the Bonds, including w ithout limitation the County’s covenants
and pledges contained in Section  4 hereof, and the other covenants and
agreements herein set forth to be performed by or on behalf of the County shall
be contracts for the equal benefit, protection and security of t he Owners, all of
which shall be of equal rank without preference, priority or distinction of any of
such Bonds over any other thereof, except as expressly provided in or pursuant
to this Resolution.

Page 7 – Authorizing the issuance, sale and delivery of general obligation bonds;
designating an authorized representative; authorizing the execution and delivery of
financial documents and related matters
3523274.8 043987  RSIND
ADOPTED this 10th day of December, 2020.
SUBMITTED BY:  Eric Arellano, Chief Financial Officer
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Deborah Kafoury, County Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON