BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
ORDINANCE NO. 1280
Amending Multnomah County Code Chapter 11 — Revenue and Taxation.
(Language stricken is deleted; underlined language is new.)
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. 	 On December 5, 2019, the County, the City of Portland, and Metro, entered into the Second
Amended and Restated Visitor Facilities Intergovernmental Agreement. Changes to portions of
Multnomah County Code Chapter 11 are needed to fully implement the agreement.
Ordinance 934, adopted July 29, 1999, amended Chapter 11 to exempt vehicles rented from "car
sharing organizations" from the County's Motor Vehicle Rental Tax. Vehicle rental and
transportation options have changed since this exemption was adopted, reducing its impact. Given
these changes, the car sharing exemption is not achieving the policy goals it was intended to
further.
c. Periodically, there is a need to amend Multnomah County Code to make technical corrections to
address changes in business practices over time, correct typos, reduce ambiguity, and eliminate
inconsistent -leans.
d. The first reading for certain revisions to portions of Multnomah County Code §§ 11.202 — 11.420
occurred on January 9, 2020.
e. At the second reading of those changes on February 13, 2020, Commissioner Sharon Meieran
moved to amend portions of Multnomah County Code §§ 11.300 — 11.402 to reflect feedback on
the first reading changes received from Metro and the City of Portland, and to clarify the County's
intent, such as by defining key terms.
The Office of the Chair and the Division of Finance and Risk management of the Department of
County Management recommended the adoption of this ordinance to the Board of County
Commissioners to amend portions of Multnomah County Code §§ 11.202 — 11.420, as moved by
Commissioner Meieran.
g. 	 The County now wishes to amend certain portions of Multnomah County Code §§ 11.202 — 11.420
through a third reading of these changes, as amended.
Multnomah County Ordains as Follows:
Section 1. 	 MCC § 11.202 is amended as follows:
§ 11.202 	 MONTHLY STATEMENT BY DEALER; AMOUNT OF FEE.
(A) 	 Subject to divisions subsections (B) and (C) of this section, below, in addition to any fees
or taxes otherwise provided for by law, every dealer and subdealer engaging in his own name, or in the
Page 1 of 11 - Amending Multnomah County Code Chapter 11 — Revenue and Taxation
name of others, or in the name of his representatives or agents in the county, in the sale, use or
distribution of motor vehicle fuel or withdrawal of motor vehicle fuel for sale, use or distribution within
areas in the county within which the county has the power to tax the sale, use or distribution of motor
vehicle fuel, shall:
* * *

Section 2. 	 MCC § 11.209 is amended as follows:
§ 11.209 	 PAYMENT OF FEE AND DELINQUENT PENALTY.
(A) The license fee imposed by §§ 11.201 and 11.202 shall be paid on or before the 25th  day
of each month to the division which, upon request, shall provide a receipt to the dealer or subdealer
therefor.
(B) Except as provided in division subsection (D of this section), to any license fee not paid
as required by division subsection (A) of this section there shall be added a penalty of 1% of such
license fee.
(C) Except as provided in division subsection (D of this section), below, if the fee and
penalty required by division subsection (B) of this section are not received on or before the close of
business on the last day of the month in which the payment is due, a further penalty of 10% shall be paid
in addition to the penalty provided for in division (B) of this section subsection (B).
(D) If the Division determines that the delinquency.was due to reasonable cause and without
any intent to avoid payment, the penalties provided by division subsections (B) and (C) of this section
shall be waived.
* * *

(F) 	 No dealer who collects from any person the fee provided for in this subchapter shall
knowingly and wilfully willfully fail to report and pay the same to the Division as required by this
subchapter.

Section 3. 	 MCC § 11.219 is amended as follows:
§ 11.219 	 REFUNDS.

(A) 	 Any person who has paid any fees on motor vehicle fuel imposed or directed to be paid
under this subchapter either directly by the collection of the fee by the vendor from the consumer, or
indirectly by adding the amount of the fee to the price of the fuel and paid by the consumer, shall be
reimbursed and repaid the amount of such fee paid by him, except as provided in §§ 11.220 and 11.223,
if such person has:
* * *

(B) 	 When a motor vehicle with auxiliary equipment uses equipment or separate tank for such
a motor, a refund may be claimed and allowed as provided by division subsection (D of this section)
except as otherwise provided by this division subsection (B), without the necessity of furnishing proof of
the amount of fuel used in the operation of the auxiliary equipment. The person claiming the refund
may present to the Division a statement of his claim and be allowed a refund as follows:
Page 2 of 11 - Amending Multnomah County Code Chapter 11 — Revenue and Taxation
* * *
(D) 	 Before any such refund may be granted, the person claiming such refund must present to
the Division a statement accompanied by copies of the original invoices showing such purchases;
provided that in lieu of such invoices, refunds submitted under division subsection (A)(4) of this section
shall be accompanied by infounation showing source of fuel used and evidence of payment of fee or tax
to the state in which the fuel was used. The statement shall be made over the signature of the claimant,
and shall state the total amount of such fuel for which is entitled to be reimbursed under division (A) of
this section subsection (A). The Division, upon the presentation of the statement and invoices, or other
required documents, shall cause to be repaid to the claimant from the fees collected on motor vehicle
fuel such fees so paid by the claimant.
Section 4. 	 MCC § 11.223 is amended as follows:
§ 11.223 	 REFUND OF FEE ON FUEL USED IN OPERATION OF VEHICLES OVER
CERTAIN ROADS OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
(A) 	 Except where a refund is authorized by §§ 11.225 or 11.226, upon compliance with
division subsection (B) or (C) of this section the Division shall refund, in the manner provided in
division subsection (B) or (C) of this section, the fee on motor vehicle fuel that is used in the operation
of a motor vehicle:
(1) By any person on any road, thoroughfare or property in private ownership.
(2) By any person on any road, thoroughfare or property, other than a state highway,
county road or city street, for the removal of forest produces, as defined in ORS 321.005, or the products
of such forest products converted to a form other than logs at or near the harvesting site, or for the
construction or maintenance of the road, thoroughfare or property, pursuant to a written agreement or
permit authorizing the use, constructions or maintenance of the road, thoroughfare or property, with or
by:
(a) 	 An agency of the United States;
* * *
(d) 	 A licensee of any agency named in division subsections (A)(2)(a), (b) or
(c)  of this section.
* * *
(4) 	 By any person on any county road for the removal of forest products, as defined
in ORS 321.005, or the products of such forest products converted to a form other than logs at or near
the harvesting site, if:
(a) 	 The use of the county road is pursuant to a written agreement entered into
with, or to a permit issued by, the State Board of Forestry, the State Forester or an agency of the Unites
States, authorizing such person to use such road and requiring such person to pay for or to perform the
construction or maintenance of the county road;
* * *
(c) 	 Copies of the agreement or permits required by division subsections
(A)(4)(a) and (b) of this section are filed with the Division.
Page 3 of 11 - Amending Multnomah County Code Chapter 11— Revenue and Taxation
(B) 	 Except for a farmer subject to division subsection (C) of this section, the person or
agency, as the case may be, who has paid any fee on such motor vehicle fuels imposed or directed to be
paid, as provided by this subchapter, is entitled to claim a refund of the fee so paid on such fuels or for
the proportionate part of the fee paid on fuels used in the operation of such vehicles, when part of the
operations are over such road, thoroughfares or property. The proportionate part shall be based upon the
number of miles traveled by any such vehicle over such roads, thoroughfares or property as compared to
the total number of miles traveled by such vehicle. To be eligible to claim such refund the person or
agency, as the case may be, shall first establish and maintain a complete record of the operations, miles
traveled, gallons of fuel used and other information, in such form and in such detail as the Division may
prescribe and require, the source of supply of all fuels purchased or used, and the particular vehicles or
equipment in which used. Whenever any such claim si received and approved by the Division, it shall
cause the refund of fee to be paid to the claimant in like manner as provided for paying of other refund
claims
* * *
(D) 	 As used in division subsections (B) and (C) of this section, FARMER includes any
person who manages or conducts a farm for the production of livestock or crops but does not include a
person who manages or conducts a farm for the production of forest products, as defined in ORS
321.005, or the products of such forest products converted to a form other than logs at or near the
harvesting site, or of forest trees unless the production of such forest products or forest trees is only
incidental to the primary purpose of the farming operation.
Section 5. 	 MCC § 11.233 is amended as follows:
§ 11.233 	 USE OF FREE.
(A) Except as provided by division subsection (B) of this section the fees collected under this
subchapter, after deducting the costs of administration and collection, shall be used by the county solely
for the purposes prescribed by the state constitution for the use of taxes upon motor vehicle fuel, but
may be shared by agreement with a city or cities situated in whole or in part within its boundaries for
those purposes.
(B) (1) On or before August 15 of each year, the Director of the Department of County
Management shall determine as accurately as possible the amount of the motor vehicle fuel tax imposed
under §§ 11.201 through 11.218 of this subchapter during the preceding fiscal year with respect to fuel
purchased and used to operate or propel motorboats. The amount deteimined shall be reduced by the
amount of any refunds for motorboats used for commercial purposes actually paid during the preceding
year on account of § 11.219(A)(1) of this subchapter.
(2) The amount of the estimate made under division subsection (B)(1) of this section as
reduced by refunds shall be transferred to Metro on or before September 30 of each year to be used
solely for the acquisition, development, administration, operation, and maintenance of any Metro-owned
or operated facility which was transferred by the county to Metro.
* * *
Section 6. 	 MCC § 11.300 is amended as follows:
Page 4 of 11 - Amending Multnomah County Code Chapter 11 — Revenue and Taxation
§ 11.300 	 DEFINITIONS.
For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless the context requires a
different meaning.
CAR SHARING ORGANIZATION.  A profit or non profit organization with membership
requirements that provides the use of motor vehicles exclusively to its members for a fee.
COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any person or other entity, any part of whose business
consists of providing the use of motor vehicles for a rental fee, including a vehicle sharing program, as
defined in ORS 742.585.
* * *
EXCISE TAX FUND INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT. The intergovernmental
agreement dated April 1, 2000, entered into b and between. Multnomah Coun and Metro for the
•u •ose of su o 	 s•ecified facilities and •ro•rams includin• the Oregon Convention Center the
Portland'5 Centers for the Arts, and the Regional Arts and Cultural Council.
OCC COMPLETION BONDS. Means those certain revenue bonds issued to expand and
complete the Oregon Convention Center (OCC), as described in the Excise Tax Fund Intergovernmental
Agreement.
PAY AND SECURE DEBT SERVICE. The payment of principal of, interest on, and
redemption premium, if any, of certain bonds described in the Visitor Facilities Intergovernmental
Agreement.
secure the bonds.
* * *
RENTAL FEE. The gross fee and charges, whatever the basis of their calculation, paid to a
commercial establishment by any person for the rental of a motor vehicle. The rental fee includes,
without limitation, the base rate charged for the motor vehicle, the cost of all options and rented
accessories  and an additional e 	 ment and services included in the • ross rental fee char • e. Rental
fee does not include the cost of fuel purchased from the commercial establishment for the motor vehicle
if the fuel is subject to the fee set forth in § 11.201.
VISITOR FACILITIES INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT. The Second Amended
and Restated Visitor Facilities Intergovernmental Agreement entered into by and between Multnomah
Coun the Ci of Portland and Metro for the 	 ose of susortin regional visitor facilities visitor
industry development, and programs and facilities that contribute to the vibrancy, livability, and
desirability of the Portland-Multnomah County area, including but not limited to mental health and drug
addiction treatment, crisis assessment and treatnient, the homeless youth continuum of care, shelter
services, and public safety.
Page 5 of 11 - Amending. Multnomah County Code Chapter 11 — Revenue and Taxation
Section 7. 	 MCC § 11.301 is amended as follows:
§ 11.301 	 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
(A) 	 A tax is imposed on every person renting a motor vehicle from a commercial
establishment doing business in the county, if the rental is for a period of 30 days or less. A rental must
have a duration of 30 days or less if the actual possession or use by the person renting the vehicle
terminates not later than the end of a 30-day period or if any contract governing the rental has a duration
of 30 days or less.
* * *
(C) 	 The surcharge of the tax imposed by subsection (A) is equal to 2.5% of the rental fee
charged by the commercial establishment for the rental. This surcharge shall remain in force as long as
the relevant bonds OCC Completion Bonds are outstanding, as described in § 11.402(B)(2) the Visitor
Facilities Intergovernmental Agreement arc outstanding.
* * *
Section 8. 	 MCC § 11.304 is amended as follows:
§ 11.304 	 USE OF TAXES.
(A) The 14.5% base taxes collected under this subchapter are general fund revenues of the
county, except that the portion of taxes attributable to gasoline sales are subject to the limitations on use
prescribed by the constitution and laws of the state.
(B) All 2.5% surcharge taxes collected under this subchapter will be deposited in used to pay
and secure debt service for so long as required under the Visitors Facilities Trust Account (VFTA)
created by 11.401(E) and allocated as provided by 11A 02(B) Intergovernmental Agreement.
Section 9. 	 MCC § 11.305 is amended as follows:
§ 11.305 	 EXEMPTIONS.
The tax imposed by 11.301 is not applicable to:
(A) 	 A rental fee that state or federal law exempts from the tax.
* * *
resident of the exemption area.
Section 10.  MCC § 11.399 is amended as follows:
§ 11.399 	 PENALTY.
(A) 	 In addition to any other penalties prescribed by law, any commercial establishment which
fails to collect and remit all taxes collected by it or otherwise fails to comply with this subchapter shall
be subject to a penalty equal to 50% of any deficiency in the taxes remitted by it, or to such lesser
penalty as the director may assess.
Page 6 of 11 - Amending Multnomah County Code Chapter 11 — Revenue and Taxation
(B) 	 The penalty imposed by division subsection  (A) of this section shall be a debt owed by
the commercial establishment to the county.
* * *
Section 11.  MCC § 11.400 is amended as follows:
§ 11.400 	 DEFINITIONS.
For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless the context requires a
different meaning.
* * *
rogram or programs to attract visitors to the Portland area to
allocated  in  MCC  § 11.402(A).
EXCISE TAX FUND INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT. The intergovernmental
agreement dated April 1, 2000, entered into by and between Multnomah County and Metro for the
•urpose of supporting specified facilities and programs including the Oregon Convention Center, the
Portland'5 Centers for the Arts, and the Regional Arts and Cultural Council.
FACILITIES. The Oregon Convention Center, the Portland Center for the Performing Arts, the
Exposition Center, and neighborhood arts programs.
* * *
. _rams aimed at incr sed community and educational
exposure to arts and involvement in  artistic endeavors to enhance the quality of  life thus incr asing
tourism and increasing support for cultural programs.
* * *
PAY AND SECURE DEBT SERVICE. As stated  in MCC 11.402(A)(2)(a) and  11.402(B)(3)
"pay and secure debt service" means the. The  payment of principal of, interest on, and redemption
premium, if any, of Oregon Convention Center Hotel Project Bonds certain bonds described in the
Visitor Facilities Intergovernmental Agreement
reserve fund, if  any established to secure the Bbonds.
* * *
VISITOR FACILITIES INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT. That intergovernmental
agreement The Second Amended and Restated Visitor Facilities Inter overnrnental A•reement entered
into by and between Multnomah County, the City of Portland, and Metro for the purpose of supporting
regional visitor facilities and, visitor industry development in,  and programs and facilities that contribute
to the vibrancy, livabilit ,and desirability of  the Portland-Multnomah County area,  including but not
limited to mental health and dru• addiction treatment, crisis assessment and treatment the homeless
youth continuum of care, shelter services, and public safety.
Page 7 of 11 - Amending Multnomah County Code Chapter 11 — Revenue and Taxation
VISITORS FACILITIES TRUST ACCOUNT (VFTA).  The excise tax account created by
MCC § 11.401(E) to recei
Intergovernmental Agreement.
Section 12. MCC § 11.401 is amended as follows:
§ 11.401 	 TAX IMPOSED.
(A) FEW A tax is imposed on each transient for the privilege of occupancy in any hotel in the
county, each transient shall pay a tax of 11.5% of the rent charged by the operator.
* * *
After deductions for administration costs and any refunds or credits authorized by
- - 	 ated as provided for in subsection (B), (C), (D) and
(E) of this section.
(B) Each transient shall pay a tax of 11.5% of the rent charged by the operator, with this tax
corn  rised of the followin• base rate and surchar' es:
.CD 	 The base rate of the tax imposed by subsection (A) is equal to 5%. It will be
allocated to the county general fund, and is available for general fund expenditures.
(C)(2)A first surcharge rate of the tax imposed by subsection (A) is equal to 1% and will
procurement and service of county convention business and tourism.
(D)ffl A second surcharge of the tax imposed by subsection (A) is equal to 3% and will
be allocated to the Excise Tax Fund and dedicated to the expenditures specified in subsection 11.402.
This surcharge shall remain in force as long as required under the Visitor Facilities and Excise Tax Fund
Intergovernmental Agreements.
(E1)(41 A third surcharge of the tax imposed by subsection (A) is equal to 2.5% and will
be allocated to the VFTA that is separate from the Excise Tax Fund, and dedicated to the expenditures
specified in subsection 11.402(B). This surcharge shall remain in force as long as the relevant bonds
described in required under subsection 11.102(B)(2) and (3) the Visitor Facilities and Excise Tax Fund
Intergovernmental Agreements are outstanding.
Section 13. MCC § 11.402 is amended as follows:
§ 11.402 	 DISTRIBUTION USE OF EXCISE TAX FUND AND VISITOR FACILITIES
TRUST ACCOUNT PROCEEDS.
(A) 	 The 3% surcharge imposed by Section 11.401(D) and allocated to the Excise Tax Fund
shall be collected and distributed annually as follows:
(3)
(1) 	 Before paying the surcharge imposed by subsection (D), as required by § 11.407,
collecting the tax.
Page 8 of 11 - Amending Multnomah County Code Chapter 11 — Revenue and Taxation
(2) 	 The County will pay from the proceeds of the surcharge that is allocated to the
Excise Tax Fund as set forth in paragraphs (a) through (e) below, with the exception of taxes collected
by an Oregon Convention Center Hotel to support bond repayment as specified in (B)(3) of this section,
which taxes will be deposited into the VFTA.
To Metro, for the operation of the Oregon Convention Center, $3,800,000
qqual to the greater of the change in the CPI or the overall change in the proceeds of the tax. If the
the proceeds to pay and secure debt service on Oregon Convention Center Hotel Project Bonds, also
referred to as OCC Hotel Project Bonds, and on Bonds issued for the purpose of making capital
improvements to the Oregon Convention Center.
el
plus annual percentage incr-uses equal to the lesser of the change in the CPI or the overall change in the
proceeds of the tax.
(c) To the government entity responsible for operating the Portland '5 Center
for the Arts' for a program or programs for cultural tourism, to be administered through a contract with
Travel Portland, and in collaboration with the Regional Arts and Culture Council, $200,000 in fiscal
year 1997 98 and, in each fiscal y-ar thereafter, tha 	 • • •
the lesser of the change in the CPI or the overall change in the proceeds of the tax:
(d) To the Regional Arts and Culture Council, any remaining balance up to
$200,000 of the proceeds of the tax after the payments in subsections (a) through (c) arc made, to be
allocated as follows:
1. 	 $100,000 for neighborhood arts;
$100,000 to broaden participation in and visitors to the region's
arms of the greater Portland metropolitan region.
• :•• • 	 "C 	 I C - "C
payments in subsections (a) through (e) are made will be allocated towards replacement, renewal,
determined by Metro.
(3)
Excise Tax Fund.

Earnings on proceeds allocated to the Excise Tax Fund will be credited to the

W(1) The amounts specified in subsection (2) above are subject to review by the Board every
five years. After deductions for refunds or credits, including interest thereon, authorized by this
subchapter, the proceeds collected under § 11.401(A) will be used for related administrative costs and as
set forth below:
(1) 	 The base taxes collected under §  11.401(B)(1) and the surcharge taxes collected
Page 9 of 11 - Amending Multnomah County Code Chapter 11 — Revenue and Taxation
{a)
under § 11.401(B)(2) are general fund revenues of the county.
(2 (B) The surcharge taxes collected under § 11.401(B)(3) will be used, for so long as
required under The 2.5% surcharge described by section 11.101(E) and allocated to the VFTA shall be
collected and distributed according to the terms of the Visitor Facilities and Excise Tax Fund
Intergovernmental Agreements: (a) to support regional visitor facilities, visitor industry development,
and •ro • rams and facilities that contribute to the vibrant livabili and desirabili of the re i ion
including but not limited to mental health and drug addiction treatment, crisis assessment and treatment,
• $ 	 _alto pay and secure debt
service; to pay for program and administrative costs allowed under the Visitor Facilities and Excise Tax
Fund Inter• overnmental A.reements; and (c) to pay and secure debt service; and between the City,
County, and Metro. Said distribution shall be made in the following order of priority in amounts
specified
(3) 	 The surcharge taxes collected under  § 11.401(B)(4) will be used, for so long as
re lured under the Visitor Facilities and Excise Tax Fund Inter overnmental A reements: a to su ort
regional visitor facilities, visitor industry development, and programs and facilities that contribute to the
vibrant livabili and desirabilit of the rep ion includin• but not limited to mental health and d u•
addiction treatment, crisis assessment and treatment, the homeless youth continuum of care, shelter
services, and public safety; (b) to pay for program and administrative costs allowed under the  isitor
Facilities and Excise Tax Fund Intergovernmental Agreements and (c) to pay and secure debt  service for
so long as the relevant bonds described in the Visitor Facilities Agreement:,
(1) 	 Before paying the tax imposed by subsection (E) are required by § 11.407, the
operator may deduct an amount equal of 5% of the portion of the tax allocated to VFTA. This 5% may
(2) To the City of Portland for payment of debt service on bonds issued for the
Oregon Convention Center, Portland'5 Centers of the Arts, and Civic Stadium (now known as Jeld Wen
Field);
(3) To Metro to pay and secure debt service on the Oregon Convention Center Hotel
Project Bonds, also referred to as the OCC Hotel Project Bonds;
Marketing related to:
(i) Oregon Convention Center;
(ii) County Visitor Facilities;
{iv) 	 Convention Visitor Public Transit Passes;
(v) Visitor Development Fund, Inc.
(vi) Portland'5 Center for the Arts; and
(vii) Rose Quarter Facilities and City Tourism Support.
Page 10 of 11 - Amending Multnomah County Code Chapter 11 — Revenue and Taxation
THIRD READING AND ADOPTION: — 	 February 20, 2020
vOR MUD',
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
-
Deborah Deborah Kafoury, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By
William Masson, Senior Assistant County Attorney
{5) 	 The Restricted Reserve and Bond Redemption Reserve are outstanding.
Section 13. MCC § 11,419 is amended as follows:
§ 11.419 	 CREDIT AGAINST CITY TAX.
(A) Any person subject to the payment or collection of the 11.401(B) 5% base tax and the
11.401(C) 1% surcharge under §§ 11.401(B)(1) and (2) is entitled to a credit against the payment of the
tax in the amount due any city within the county for a transient lodgings tax for the same occupancy.
(B) No person subject to the surcharge taxes imposed by _§.11.401 (D) and 11.401(E)(31 :
f4  is entitled to a credit against the payment of those taxes. The 3% surcharge imposed by 11.401(D)
and the 2.5% surcharge imposed by 11A 01(E) The surcharges are due and payable in accordance with
this subchapter regardless of the amount due any city within the county for a transient lodging tax for the
same occupancy made taxable under this subchapter.
Section 14. MCC § 11,420 is amended as follows:
§ 11.420 	 DELINQUENCY AND INTEREST.
(A) 	 Any operator who has not been granted an extension of time for remittance of tax due and
who fails to remit any tax imposed by this subchapter prior to delinquency must pay a penalty of 10% of
the amount of the tax due in addition to the amount of the tax.
* * *
(C) If the tax administrator deteimines that the non-payment of any remittance due under this
subchapter is due to fraud or intent to evade, a penalty of 25% of the amount of the tax will be added to
the penalties stated in divisionssubsections (A) and (B) of this section.
FIRST READING: 	 January 9, 2020
SECOND READING AND AMENDMENT: 	 February 13, 2020
Page 11 of 11 - Amending Multnomah County Code Chapter 11 — Revenue and Taxation