BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
RESOLUTION NO. 2026-045
Resolution to approve the Cable Franchise Revenue Collection and Administration
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the Cities of Fairview Wood Village, and Troutdale
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. The Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission (MHCRC) was formed through an
agreement between Multnomah County and the cities of Fairview, Gresham, Portland,
Troutdale, and Wood Village (the “Agreement”). Under the Agreement, the jurisdictions
formed the MHCRC and granted to MHCRC the authority to manage the distribution of
funds from the cable services franchise agreements that are between each of the
jurisdictions and Comcast.
b. The MHCRC oversees 16,791 cable subscriptions as of the FY25-26 budget, with 681
subscriptions under Multnomah County’s jurisdiction. As a result of the cable services
franchise agreements, the Commission oversees an FY25-26 fund budget of about
$11 million and FY25-26 franchise fee revenue of about $1.1 million, of which
$140,876 is allocated to Multnomah County.
c. On May 15, 2025, the Board approved a franchise agreement with Comcast under
which Comcast pays the County cable franchise fees and public, education, and
government (PEG) fees. This franchise agreement expires on December 31, 2035.
d. MHCRC-overseen cable subscriptions saw a 42% decline between 2006 and 2025,
decreasing from 29,071 to 16,791 subscriptions. The resulting shrinking revenues
combined with administrative costs to manage and support the commission structure
and grants led to jurisdictional members agreeing to dissolve the MHCRC by June 30,
2026.
e. Upon MHCRC dissolution, Multnomah County must be able to receive cable revenues
and allocate funds to MetroEast, and oversee this allocation.
f. The proposed IGA will authorize Troutdale to collect and distribute cable revenues and
continue fund allocation and oversight to MetroEast on behalf of Multnomah County.
This includes continuing to allocate 60% of Cable Franchise Fees and all PEG fees to
MetroEast.
g. In exchange, MetroEast provides to Multnomah County the core service of
gavel-to-gavel, professional video production and live distribution of Board meetings
on cable TV and playback on the MetroEast website. Cable fee funding also enables
MetroEast to provide important community services, including hands-on technology
learning for underserved communities, technology education for youth, digital literacy
classes, workforce development, low- or- no-cost public classes, equipment and
Rev. 1/2023
technology access, and coverage of community events, and enabling communities to
produce shows and productions.
h. The proposed IGA continues Multnomah County’s legal and community obligations at
minimal cost to the County.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves:
1. To authorize the Chair to sign the Cable Franchise Revenue Collection &
Administration Intergovernmental Agreement, joining with the cities of Troutdale,
Fairview, and Wood Village.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By
SUBMITTED BY: Meghan Moyer, District 1 County Commissioner
Rev. 1/2023
Jenny Madkour, County Attorney
ADOPTED this WK day of -XQH, .