BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
OR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Deborah Kafoury, Chair
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
PROCLAMATION NO. 2020-003
Proclaiming Everybody Reads 2020 from January 2 to March 5 as a countywide reading project that honors Native voices in
Multnomah County.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. Public libraries enable learning, encourage dialogue, protect freedom of thought and expression, celebrate diverse voices and
viewpoints, reduce barriers for marginalized communities, and serve as a foundation for a stronger and healthier democratic
society.
b. Everybody Reads is a community reading project for all people in Multnomah County to participate in a shared reading
experience, discuss issues that matter, learn from each other and promote greater understanding.
c. Multnomah County Library's selection for the 18th annual Everybody Reads program is There There by Tommy Orange.
d. The selection of There There as the Everybody Reads title is important to centering and supporting Native voices that have
historically been excluded, marginalized and discriminated against.
e. The library will offer multiple events presented by members of the Native community to support the discussion of the book,
including Native Story Hour; A Native Wisdom Documentary Film Series; and Indigenous Art in Oregon: From Time
Immemorial Until Now.
f. The program will conclude with an evening with Tommy Orange on March 5 at the Arlene Schnitzer Concert Hall.
g. Everybody Reads 2020 is made possible in part by gifts to The Library Foundation with author appearance made possible, by
Literary Arts.
h. Multnomah County joins the City of Portland in honoring the Native people living in this region and in celebrating the
immeasurable ways that Native people contribute to the community.
i. Multnomah County Library is committed to providing library service in ways that are culturally responsive and honor distinct
cultures and lived experiences.
Multnomah County is sited upon the traditional and ancestral lands of the Multnomah, Kathlamet, Clackamas, Cowlitz bands
of Chinook, Tualatin Kalapuya, Molalla and many other Tribes who made their homes along the Columbia River. To remember
these communities is to acknowledge the sacrifices forced upon them, and to honor their legacy, their lives, and their
descendants.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
Everybody Reads 2020 from January 2 to March 5 as a countywide reading project that honors Native voices in Multnomah
County.
ADOPTED this 9 th  day of January, 2020.
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By

Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney
SUBMITTED BY: Vailey Oehlke, Library Director