BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
PROCLAMATION NO. 2022-023
Proclaiming March 31, 2022, Transgender Day of Visibility in Multnomah County.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
A. March 31st marks International Transgender Day of Visibility, a day to celebrate
and elevate the voices and contributions of our gender expansive community of
transgender, Two Spirit, Non -Binary, and Intersex people, among others, here in
Multnomah County.
B. This day is dedicated to celebrating the accomplishments and victories of our
gender expansive community, while raising awareness of the work that still needs
to be done to address anti-transgender violence and achieve lived equality.
C. Members of the gender expansive community of Multnomah County have actively
engaged in every aspect of life in our community, yet continue to face
discrimination, harassment, and violence at rates much higher than cisgender
community members. We recognize that these levels  of hate and violence
disproportionately affect Trans Femmes individuals, particularly those who are
Black, Latinx, Indigenous, and other Trans Femmes of color.
D. Across the United States, members of the gender expansive community are facing
attacks on the ir humanity: from Texas’ order to “report” any parents of youth
receiving gender-affirming medical care, to Florida’s “Don’t Say Gay” bill, which
seeks to prohibit discussions about gender identity and sexual orientation in
classrooms.
E. Multnomah County is  committed to supporting our gender expansive community
members and pushing back on policies and rhetoric which seek to challenge the
existence and humanity of members of the gender expansive community,
wherever they occur.
F. Multnomah County and the Office  of Diversity and Equity are committed to
honoring the contributions of our gender expansive employees as we strive for a
workplace that fosters Safety, Trust, and Belonging. As we “Inclusively Lead with
Race”, we recognize that our BIPOC gender expansive employees face unique
dual barriers due to institutional racism and transphobia.
G. Multnomah County will continue to translate our values into action, lifting up and
prioritizing the needs of our gender expansive community as we seek to ensure
every community member can access the services and resources they need.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
1. March 31, 2022, Transgender Day of Visibility in Multnomah County, Oregon,
and with this proclamation affirms commitment to support our gender expansive
community.
ADOPTED this 31st day of March, 2022.
SUBMITTED BY: Chair Kafoury, Commissioner Sharon Meieran, Commissioner Susheela
Jaypal, Commissioner Jessica Vega Pederson, & Commissioner Lori Stegmann
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By
Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney
Deborah Kafoury, Chair