Page 1 - Supporting Bird-Safe Building and Lighting Standards for County Buildings
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
RESOLUTION NO. 2023-088
Supporting Bird-Safe Building and Lighting Standards for County Buildings.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
A. Nearly 30% of our North American birds have been lost in the last 50 years.
B. Building collisions have been found to kill between 365 and 998 million birds per year in
North America, making it one of the top three conservation pressures on native birds.
C. 56% of all bird collisions occur at low rise buildings.
D. Building and window design play an important role in collision reduction.
E. A large body of research also demonstrates that the proliferation of artificial light at night
has negative impacts on fauna, flora & human health and is now one of the fastest
growing, most common, and also reversible forms of environmental pollution.
F. Light pollution has been shown to affect at least 200 species of every taxa including
birds, fish, mammals, amphibians, reptiles, invertebrates, and plants.
G. Light pollution has been flagged by the American Medical Association as having
potential links to diabetes, cardiovascular disease, depression and sleep disorders.
H. Research shows that people of color and renters experience more light pollution in their
neighborhoods than white people and homeowners, making the issue of light pollution
an environmental justice issue.
I. Multnomah County prioritized the development of bird friendly building and lighting
measures in its 2016 County Comprehensive Plan (5.43, 5.29 and 5.30).
J. Multnomah County regularly practices lighting design and fixtures installations that are
energy efficient and include outdoor shielded lighting consistent with ORS 455.573.
K. In rural unincorporated areas of Multnomah County, where the County has authority to
regulate development, public and private development requests are subject to Dark Sky
ordinance requirements (Ordinance 1236).  The rules require exterior lights to
be
directed downwards and shielded to minimize light pollution.  Certain exemptions exist,
but generally, all development requests in the rural area are subject to Dark Sky
regulations.
Page 2 - Supporting Bird-Safe Building and Lighting Standards for County Buildings
L. The Mid-Multnomah County Street Lighting Service District No. 14 (“District”) used Dark
Sky compliant fixtures when upgrading 2,200 streetlights in the District’s system.
M. The City of Portland and Metro Regional Government have both adopted bird-safe
building and lighting standards for their own buildings.
N. The County plays an important role in setting an example for both the public and private
sector on adhering to best practices and sensible sustainable building design.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves:
1. To make it the policy of Multnomah County to seek to minimize the impacts of County
buildings on birds.
2. To support the Chair’s adoption of administrative design standards and guidelines that
incorporate bird-safe design for new and remodeled County buildings, especially as it
pertains to exterior lighting and window glazing.
ADOPTED this 19th day of October, 2023.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By:
Katherine Thomas, Assistant County Attorney
SUBMITTED BY: John Wasiutynski