BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
PROCLAMATION NO. 2024-059
Proclaiming July 2024 as Disability Pride Month in Multnomah County, Oregon.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
A. Approximately 61 million people in the United States have a disability. Almost
15% of Multnomah County residents live with some form of disability. Disabilities
are ordinary and familiar parts of who people are, and we honor the diverse
experiences of disability and perspectives within our community.
B. The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) was passed on July 26, 1990 to
ensure the civil rights of members of the disability community. “The ADA
guarantees that people with disabilities have the same opportunities as everyone
else to enjoy employment opportunities, purchase goods and services, and
participate in state and local government programs”.
C. July is Disability Pride Month, founded to celebrate the anniversary of the signing
of the ADA. This historic legislation reflects our nation’s commitment to securing
equal rights and defending the intrinsic dignity of all people. We renew our
commitment to empower Multnomah County residents and employees with
disabilities through equal access.
D. Disability Pride Month provides an opportunity to recognize and honor the
accomplishments of disabled individuals in various fields, including education,
employment, arts, sports, science, government, and advocacy.
E. Multnomah County acknowledges the barriers and challenges faced by
individuals with disabilities, including societal attitudes, lack of accessibility,
discrimination, and unequal opportunities. This is especially prevalent for
individuals with certain intersecting identities, such as LGBTQIA2S+ and BIPOC
folks.
F. Multnomah County acknowledges the long history of oppression and violence
against disabled people, including forced sterilization of institutionalized patients
at places like the Fairview Training Center, a lack of support for Oregonians with
developmental disabilities, and discriminatory “ugly laws” enacted in Portland in
1881.
G. This history of violence against persons with disabilities is both part of our
history, as well as a present reality for people in our community and around the
world. This can be seen in housing laws that force a conflict between the needs
of disabled people in our community, in our criminal legal system, and in our
health care systems. There can even be harm in the systems set up to support people with disabilities in our community due to unnecessary restrictions by rules and laws created without the input of the disability community.  H.  Multnomah County is proud to have a number of departments that directly serve community members with disabilities. We will commit ourselves to disability justice by dismantling ableist practices and prioritizing the voices and needs of disabled people in our community.  I.  The Department of County Human Services (DCHS) is proud to be a home to the Aging, Disability, and Veterans Services Division (ADVSD) as well as Intellectual and Developmental Disability Services (IDD). In fiscal year 2023, ADVSD reported serving 13,258 people with disabilities, and IDD reported serving a total of 7,356 people with disabilities.  J.  The Department of Community Justice (DCJ) uses an equity lens in all programming and policy development, which includes considering the needs of individuals with disabilities. DCJ has focused efforts on improving facilities and accommodations to increase accessibility for employees and clients.   K.  The Joint Office of Homeless Services (JOHS) is committed to providing a wide range of accessible services to the most vulnerable members of our community who may be homeless or housing insecure. Due to the high number of people with disabilities who are homeless, the majority of JOHS Supportive Housing Services (SHS) funding is intended for people with disabling conditions.  L.  The Health Department offers accessible, inclusive services and programs for all Multnomah County residents with disabilities. We commit ourselves to centering the needs of people with disabilities, including those with chronic illness, and mental and behavioral health conditions. This has been accomplished through the creation of the Behavioral Health Resource Center, our work with our health advisory councils, and with our department’s support of the Workforce Equity Strategic Plan (WESP). The Health Department is proud to lead the way with accessibility, both in the services we provide and for our employees in the workplace  M.  Multnomah County honors the advocates of the “people first” movement from the 1970s, which began in Salem, Oregon on January 8th, 1974. We also honor the advocates doing work today to ensure that all persons with disabilities feel empowerment within their identity. This includes a long history of advocacy and disability policy changes that involved members of Multnomah County’s community.  N.  As we commemorate the anniversary of the ADA and celebrate our disabled community members, we recommit to working together to ensure people with disabilities have equal opportunity through equity and accessibility.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
July 2024 is Disability Pride Month in Multnomah County and encourages all residents
to observe this month.
ADOPTED this 25th day of July, 2024.
SUBMITTED BY:
Mohammad Bader - Director, Department of County Human Services
Rachael Banks - Director, Multnomah County Health Department
Daniel Field - Director, Joint Office of Homeless Services
Denise Peña - Director, Department of Community Justice
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY , OREGON
Jessica Vega Pederson, County Chair
REVIEWED: JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY
ATTORNEY FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY , OREGON
By_____________________________
Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney