BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON

PROCLAMATION NO. 2022-005

Proclaiming January 2022 as Human Trafficking Awareness Month in Multnomah County,
Oregon.

The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:

a. Human trafficking disproportionately impacts those most marginalized in our
community.

b. The voices and expertise of those most impacted must be front and center in every
aspect of our effort to prevent and respond to human trafficking.

c. It is essential th at residents of Multnomah County work together to raise
awareness in a way that honors those impacted.

d. Multnomah County’s engagement in local and regional partnerships is critical to
successfully prevent and respond to human trafficking.

e. An effective response to human trafficking must include the collaboration of elected
officials, governmental departments, law enforcement, and service providers to cultivate
a comprehensive approach that creates a safer community.

f. It is critical that we believe people when they tell us they have been harmed.

g. In fiscal year 2020-21, the New Day program, which is funded by the County and
operated by  New Avenues for Youth, worked with 200 unique youth who were identified
as sex trafficking victims or at high risk of being trafficked.

h. As of December 20, 2021, local jail intelligence has identified 587 minors and 2,055
adults for a total of 2,564 unduplicated victims of sex trafficking in Multnomah County.

Jail intelligence identifies an average of 42 minors and 147 adult victims for an average
of 188 new unduplicated victims annually.

Victims in our communities of color are overrepresented with an average of 39% Black,
5% Hispanic, 2% Asian, 1% Native American/Alaskan Indigenous and 48% white (6%
unknown race/ethnicity).  According to Oregon Public Broadcasting and the July 19, 2019
US Census quick facts Oregon’s white non -Hispanic figure is 75.1% while our
communities of color make up 11.5% with an additional 13.4% Hispanic or Latinx.

i. As a system, it is important to be led by those who have been impacted by this
issue to effectively address it. Over the past three years a small team from the Multnomah
County Sex Trafficking Collaborative worked with survivors, community members,
government colleagues, and others nationally to build a robust community advisory board.
This board is comprised of individuals who have experienced sex trafficking and provide
insight, guidance, and leadership to the Multnomah County Sex Trafficking Collaborative.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
January 2022 as Human Trafficking Awareness Month in Multnomah County, Oregon.
ADOPTED this 20th day of January, 2022.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
REVIEWED:  JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By
Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney
SUBMITTED BY: Commissioner Susheela Jayapal
Lori Stegmann, Vice-Chair