BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
PROCLAMATION NO. 2023-023
Proclaiming the Week of April 23rd through April 29th, 2023 as “National Crime Victims’
Rights Week” in Multnomah County, Oregon.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
A. Each year, thousands of residents in Multnomah County experience victimization
that can result in trauma, pain, humiliation, destabilization, and personal and
financial losses.
B. Crime victims’ rights guarantee victims the right to meaningfully participate and
use their voices in the criminal justice process.
C. Including and elevating the voices of survivors makes certain they are heard and
seen and creates a path to forging and sustaining community trust.
D. Engaging survivors creates responses and services that are credible, meaningful,
and centered on individual needs.
E. The lived experiences of survivors can serve as a catalyst for implementing
innovative programs, shifting existing programs in new directions, and improving
policies or practices that historically prevent survivors from accessing services or
pursuing justice.
F. National Crime Victims’ Rights Week provides an opportunity to recommit to
listening to crime survivors in every space where decisions are made that could
impact them.
G. The Multnomah County District Attorney’s Office and the Multnomah County
Department of Community Justice are dedicated to amplifying the voices of
survivors and creating an environment where survivors have the confidence that
they will be heard, believed, and supported.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
The week of April 23rd through April 29th, 2023, to be National Crime Victims’ Rights
Week in Multnomah County, Oregon and reaffirms the County’s commitment to a victim
service and criminal justice response that treats all crime victims and survivors with
humanity, respect and compassion, uplifts their voices, is responsive to their unique
needs, and honors all of their rights.
ADOPTED this 27th day of April 2023.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By:
      Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney