Rule 3-37
Mobile Devices
§§:
3-37-010  Purpose
3-37-015  Definitions
3-37-020  Policy
3-37-025  Applicability
3-37-030  Mobile Device Guidelines
3-37-035  Oversight and Authorization of Mobile Device Usage
3-37-040  Limiting or Revoking Access
3-37-045  No Responsibility to Repair or Replace Mobile Devices
3-37-050  Permissible and Prohibited Uses of County-Owned Mobile Devices
3-37-055  Confidentiality of Systems and Information
3-37-060  Employee Privacy Expectations
3-37-065  Electronic Records Retention and Access
§ 3-37-010 Purpose
The purpose of this Mobile Devices policy is to provide guidelines for usage of county and
personally owned mobile devices for County related work.
§ 3-37-015 Definitions
● Allowance: Considered additional employee compensation subject to applicable payroll
taxes. See Administrative Procedure, FIN-18.
● County-owned Mobile Device: A mobile device and the associated monthly services
that are acquired by and paid for by Multnomah County and issued to employees to
conduct county business.
● Mobile Device: A mobile device is an electronic device used for mobile
communications including mobile telephone, email, text messaging or data
transmission, over a mobile or Wi-Fi network. In addition to the standard voice function,
mobile devices known as smartphones and/or tablets may support many additional
services and accessories, such as application software (third-party “apps”), text
messaging, email, internet access, camera and GPS. Additionally, cards for the purpose
of providing mobile network access (this type of card requires some type of monthly
service plan) for mobile computing devices such as a laptop are also considered a
mobile device.
● Personal Mobile Device: A mobile device and the associated monthly or prepaid
services that are acquired by and paid for by the employee.
§ 3-37-020 Policy
A. The county authorizes certain employees to utilize county-owned mobile devices when
such usage is required by the employees’ job duties. Employees utilizing county-owned
mobile devices must use the devices for authorized county business except as
otherwise provided in this policy. The county will also authorize certain employees, on a
voluntary basis, to use their personal mobile devices for work purposes when required
by their job duties, with payment of an allowance under the terms of this policy and
Administrative Procedure FIN-18. The allowance is considered additional compensation
and will be subject to all applicable taxes and withholdings.  When appropriate, the
Department Director will provide the choice to the employee to either be issued a
county-owned mobile device or to use their personal mobile device and receive an
allowance pursuant to this policy. Any and all usage of mobile devices for work
purposes must comply with all federal, state, and county laws, rules including MCPR §
3-35-050, regulations and procedures established by county departments and work
units.  Decisions by Department Directors about mobile device usage should reflect
considerations of cost effectiveness.
B. County-owned mobile devices may be taken home or to other locations for work
purposes by employees with prior approval of their manager. All equipment shall be
returned upon separation from employment with the County.
§ 3-37-025 Applicability
This rule applies to employees’ use of mobile devices for work purposes. This rule covers both
county-owned mobile devices and personal mobile devices used for work purposes whether or
not the employee is compensated for its use.
§ 3-37-030  Mobile Device Guidelines
It is the county’s preference to authorize an allowance for the use of personal mobile devices
rather than provide county-owned mobile devices. The following are the scenarios by which a
county employee may, if approved, utilize mobile devices for work purposes.
A. Business use of personal mobile devices: Department Directors may authorize
employees to utilize their personal mobile devices for work purposes on a voluntary
basis, under the terms and guidelines of this policy.
1. Compensation
a. A monthly allowance may be issued to those employees who are
authorized by their Department Directors to utilize voice, text, and/or data
services on personal mobile devices for work purposes. The county will
pay an allowance as designated in Multnomah County Administrative
Procedure FIN-18 for use of a mobile device for voice, text, and/or data
services.
b. The allowance will be paid to employees in whole monthly increments
rather than prorated for partial beginning and ending months of approved
allowance period.
c. Amounts different than those outlined in Multnomah County Administrative
Procedure FIN-18, require approval from the Chief Financial Officer
d. The mobile device allowance is considered additional compensation and
as such is a taxable item that will be added to the employee’s monthly
paycheck. The employee is responsible for submitting to the Department
Director the pages of his/her wireless service bill verifying the charges.
The Department Director is responsible for notifying Central Payroll of
which employees have been approved to use personal mobile devices
under this policy, of all allowance amounts, and changes in allowance
amounts or eligibility.
e. The allowance will begin the month following the date of the Department
Director’s signature on the authorization form. A request for
reimbursement of prior months must have a written justification signed by
the Department Director attached to the form, and is subject to the
approval of the County Chief Financial Officer. In no event shall
reimbursement of prior months cross fiscal years.
f. The employee is responsible for submitting to the Department Director, on
an annual basis, the pages of his/her most current wireless service bill
verifying the charges and confirming that the employee continues to have
the service. Documentation is to be received by January 15th to continue
the employee allowance.
g. The employee’s manager and the employee are both responsible for
notifying the Department Director and Central Payroll, in writing, within ten
(10) days, if the employee is no longer required to use a personal mobile
device for job related tasks, if the personal mobile device has become
disabled and not usable, or if there is a change to the monthly charges for
the mobile device that would affect the amount of the allowance.
h. The Department Director is responsible for notifying Central Payroll, in
writing, if the employee terminates their employment with the County, if
the employee transfers to a new unit, or if the Department Director
revokes personal mobile authorization.
i. If an employee loses their personal mobile device and the device contains
county information such as e-mails, calendar notations, and texts:
i. The employee is responsible for immediately notifying their
manager and the Help Desk; and
ii. The County has the right to destroy any data on the personal
mobile device or take any other action to ensure the confidentiality
of county information on the mobile device, without regard to
potential loss of the employee’s personal data or information.
B. County-issued mobile devices.
1. If it is determined that the use of a personal mobile device does not meet the
business needs or the employee does not wish to utilize that alternative, a
Department Director may authorize an employee to use a county-owned mobile
device for business purposes under these rules.
2. If an employee receives a mobile allowance, they typically do not have a need for
a county issued mobile device. The exceptions would be county issued mobile
device that is shared by and rotated among multiple employees (including those
that receive an allowance) for essential service coverage such as, but not limited
to, Emergency Management Duty Officer or Call Center employees. Exceptions
require Department Director approval.
§ 3-37-035 Oversight and Authorization of Mobile Device Usage
A. Oversight: Department Directors shall be responsible for oversight and approval of each
employee’s request for a county-owned mobile device, or to utilize their personal mobile
device for business purposes. Requests are made on the basis of a genuine business
need, not by the requestor’s job classification alone.  The Department Director shall
review mobile device usage annually, or on a more suitable frequency as may be
requested by IT, to ensure that the use is appropriate and that prudent fiscal
management guidelines are followed. This periodic review shall include an assessment
of each authorized employee’s need to use a mobile device for a business purpose.
B. Authorization
1. The county must authorize the employee to use a personal mobile device or a
county-owned mobile device for county business.  Authorization forms shall be
signed by the employee and the employee’s manager, and then submitted to the
Department Director for approval and authorization to be indicated by the
Director’s signature. A copy of the authorization form will be retained by both the
employee and the department. A copy of the forms are available on Multco
Commons: Authorization to Use a County Issued Cell Phone or Mobile Device
and Multnomah County Administrative Procedure FIN-18 - Allowance for
Business Use of Personal Mobile Devices Application / Approval Form.
2. The Department Director is responsible for authorizing an employee to use a
personal mobile device for business purposes or to use a county-owned mobile
device, based on the following factors:
a. Departmental requirements indicate utilizing a mobile device is an integral
part of performing duties of the job description;
b. More than 50% of the employee’s job duties are performed in the field;
c. The employee is required to be contacted for business reasons on a
regular basis;
d. The employee is required to be on call outside of normal work hours as a
job requirement; or
e. The employee is a critical decision maker.
3. The Department Director is responsible upon approval of an allowance for
business use of a personal mobile device, or upon authorization for an employee
to use a county-owned mobile device, to approve the plan that is the “least-cost”
to the county for employee usage, and to review that plan annually or anytime
charges greater than the base plan costs are experienced. IT may assist in
identifying the plan with the lowest overall cost to the county, considering usage
patterns experienced.  Employees utilizing personal mobile devices for business
purposes must provide the Department Director and their manager with their
current telephone number.
§ 3-37-040 Limiting or Revoking Access
The county may revoke or limit permission for use of mobile devices for work purposes at any
time without cause or explanation. Department Directors may issue department specific
limitations on use of mobile devices that are more restrictive than this rule.
§ 3-37-045 No Responsibility to Repair or Replace Mobile Devices
A. Under no circumstances will an employee be authorized to personally seek to repair a
county-owned mobile device on their own.  For employees who continue to utilize
county-owned mobile devices, the county will continue to provide support and repair
services for those devices.
B. The county has no responsibility for repair or replacement of personal mobile devices
used for work purposes.
§ 3-37-050 Permissible and Prohibited Uses of County-Owned Mobile Devices
A. Usage of county-owned mobile devices is restricted to county business, except as
allowed in these guidelines.
B. Limited personal use of county-owned mobile devices is permissible, and must always
be on the employee’s own time, at virtually no cost to the county, and be brief and
infrequent.  In addition to uses which may have a direct cost, such as making toll calls,
personal uses which have an indirect cost are also prohibited. Personal use of county-
owned mobile devices, consistent with these rules, is considered an incidental benefit
under MCPR § 4-20-110 (C).
C. Permissible personal uses of county-owned mobile devices include:
1. A brief email;
2. A brief text message;
3. A brief and infrequent telephone call;
4. A brief and infrequent toll call that is not charged to the county;
5. Brief and infrequent internet access or web searches for personal research, or
self-study;
6. Brief and infrequent postings using social media if the content or purpose is
personal;
7. Storage of limited copies of personal electronic files, e.g., photographs,
documents, and digital music, so long as they have been virus scanned with any
software the County has made available for that purpose;
8. Data streaming provided the mobile device is using a Wi-Fi connection and not
the county’s mobile data plan, and there is no interference with county business;
and
9. If the employee is not assigned a county desk phone the employee may use a
county-owned mobile device in the same manner as a desk phone so long as it
amounts to virtually no cost to the county, or if it results in additional cost for the
county, the employee will reimburse the county for the added cost.
D. Prohibited personal uses of county-owned mobile devices, except as provided above in
MCPR § 3-37-050 (C), include but are not limited to:
1. Making toll calls;
2. Sending or knowingly receiving personal emails or texts with large file
attachments (more than 500 megabytes) e.g., graphics, photos or sound files;
3. Uses which require significant data storage or data transmission (bandwidth)
capacity; and
4. Data streaming while using its mobile data plan.
E. The following additional guidelines apply to employees’ usage of county-owned mobile
devices:
1. Employees will not use county-owned mobile devices if regular telephone service
is available.
2. Employees will avoid lengthy conversations on county-owned mobile devices.  If
an employee anticipates that a call will last more than a few minutes, the
employee will arrange to call the person back from a regular telephone, to the
extent possible.
3. Employees will minimize use of county-owned mobile devices outside the home
service area, to the extent possible.
§ 3-37-055 Confidentiality of Systems and Information
A. Various county, state and federal laws, rules, regulations and policies restrict access
to and disclosure of confidential and sensitive data and information, such as
Personally Identifiable Information (PII). Employees will not disclose or allow access to
such sensitive and confidential information or data, except in accordance with county
or departmental rules, practices or procedures. Employees with such access are
responsible for the safekeeping and handling of their mobile devices to prevent
unauthorized disclosure of financial, medical, and other personal client or employee
information, or any confidential information contained in a system or on their personal
mobile devices. The storing of PII (including but not limited to Personal Health
Information (PHI)) on personal mobile devices is not allowed. Employees must
immediately notify their manager and the IT Help Desk of any potential
breach/unauthorized access to their mobile devices used for work purposes in
accordance with Multnomah County Administrative Procedure PR 3-10-020 (Q).
B. Electronic data should be transported or stored on mobile devices only as necessary
to conduct County business. Employees are required to ensure that mobile devices
are properly secured via password protection. This includes both personal mobile
devices used for business purposes and county-owned mobile devices.
§ 3-37-060 Employee Privacy Expectations
A. Privacy expectations for use of county systems and work records on mobile devices
used for work purposes are stated at MCPR § 3-35-045.
B. Department Human Resources Units, Central Human Resources, and the County
Attorney’s Office may request reports detailing employee mobile device usage for
county-owned mobile devices. These reports include information that specifies internet
sites employees accessed or attempted to access, how long employees spent on
internet sites, and copies of emails or similar messages sent and received, and phone
numbers called or from which the employee received calls.  Managers who believe they
need access to usage reports shall contact their Department Human Resources Unit for
approval to access such reports.
C. Upon request, employees will provide to the County any work records on personal
mobile devices and third party websites, including but not limited to emails, electronic
documents, texts, chats, voice mails, and social media posts, whether or not the
employee is compensated for its use per this rule, to the extent required by public
records laws and other legal requirements.  The county may use this information in
disciplinary or other legal proceedings.
§ 3-37-065 Electronic Records Retention and Access
Work-related electronic records existing on mobile devices used for work purposes, including
personal mobile devices, are public records. As such, they are subject to the same laws and
rules for public inspection and retention that apply to all other county records, including but not
limited to the state public records laws and rules, County Executive Rules 300 and 301 and
Multnomah County Administrative Procedure REC-1. Employees should refer to the retention
schedules for their Department to determine what must be retained and what can be
destroyed. Retention schedules are at http://web.multco.us/records/retention-schedules.