BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
PROCLAMATION NO. 2024-100
Proclaiming November 20, 2024 as Transgender Day of Remembrance in Mult nomah County,
Oregon.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
A. Transgender Day of Remembrance (TDOR) was started in 1999 by transgender advocate
Gwendolyn Ann Smith as a vigil to honor the memory of Rita Hester, a transgender
woman who was killed in 1998.  Rita’s murder became the catalyst to  honoring the lives
and memory of transgender people lost to senseless violence, transphobia, self -harm,
and structural inequalities.
B. Anti-transgender violence has been declared an epidemic by the American Medical
Association; it is an infectious disease in our community, and although more attention has
been raised regarding this epidemic, our transgender and gender nonbinary community
members continue to be killed and live in fear.
C. Our Transgender and Nonbinary communities have endured years of pain and suffering;
and yet, many have risen to fight against senseless bigotry by advocating for policies to
address anti-trans bias, and by living as their full selves openly. This bravery often results
in tragedy and violence against trans and nonbinary people.
D. A disproportionately high number of these victims were and continue to be Black and
Latine, Indigenous, and other Trans Femmes of color. These incidents are underreported,
due to our region, state and nation’s history of systemic racism and transphobia.
E. So far in 2024, at least 27 Trans and Nonbinary people have been killed in acts of violence
across the United States. That number is not a complete representation of those killed by
anti-trans acts of violence.
F. While we must continue to pay close attention to the reports of transgender violence we
receive, we must not solely rely on the number of yearly deaths to bring about necessary
change.
G. We must remind ourselves of our responsibility to dive deeper into systemic inequities
endured by Transgender folks every single day and focus on developing policy solutions
that address those systemic inequities.
H. All who have lost loved ones and have been lost to anti -transgender violence will be
forever missed by family, friends, partners, and the community. And we will commemorate
their life by protecting, advocating, and uplifting those who are still with us.
November 20 th, 202 4 is proclaimed to be Transgender Day of Remembrance. With this
proclamation, we affirm our commitment to supporting our Trans and gender nonbinary
communities, not just through the words, but also through action to address systemic inequities,
and by uplifting the tenacity of Trans and Nonbinary individuals who have brought and continue
to bring strength, beauty, perseverance to our community.
ADOPTED this 21st day of November, 2024.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Jesse Beason, Vice Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By
 Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney
SUBMITTED BY: Commissioners Jesse Beason, District 2 & Sharon Meieran, District 1
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims: