BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
ORDER NO.
Order establishing costs and persons liable for road hazard on SE Pounder Road.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a) SE Pounder Road, in the area of Corbett, is a County road under the meaning of ORS
368.001(1).
b) Beginning in 2020, and continuing into 2021, Multnomah County Land Use Planning
received complaints that excavation and ground disturbing activities were being
performed at 645 SE Pounder Road in a manner that caused erosion, blocked the
County’s culvert and ditch, and impacted adjacent property and Pounder Road.
According to recorded documents in the Tax Assessor’s Office, Heather Moon owns
the real property at 645 SE Pounder Road.
c) On or about February 23, 2021, Multnomah County Transportation was notified that
large cracks had formed on SE Pounder Road.  Transportation conducted a site visit
and observed water, mud and debris sheeting across the road, a plugged public
culvert, sloughing of the road shoulder, and sinking and cracking in the pavement.
d) The County Engineer determined that the activities at 645 SE Pounder Road created a
road hazard under the meanings in ORS 368.251 and 368.256(1), and presented a
substantial risk of damage or injury to the traveling public, requiring abatement without
delay and without notice or a hearing, and proceeded accordingly pursuant to ORS
368.271(1)(c).
e) Beginning February 23, 2021, County Transportation took emergency action to abate
the road hazard created by the activities at 645 SE Pounder Road. Abatement
measures were completed on March 4, 2022. The emergency abatement measures
resulted in over $387,000 in costs to County Transportation funds.
f) On July 14, 2022, the Multnomah County Board of Commissioners accepted a written
report from the County Engineer. That report is attached hereto as Exhibit 1.
g) On July 14, 2022, the Board of County Commissioners set a public hearing for
October 6, 2022 at 9:30 AM in the Board Room in accordance with ORS 368.276(1).
h) Notice of the hearing was provided in accordance with ORS 368.276(2).
i) On October 6, 2022, the Board of County Commissioners conducted a public hearing
where staff presented facts supporting the financial impacts of the emergency
abatement measure, and provided opportunity for public comment in accordance with
ORS 368.276(1) and (3).
2022-090
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Orders:
1. Ms. Heather Moon is the property owner of 645 SE Pounder Road. The activities
conducted on that property caused a road hazard on SE Pounder Road that resulted
in mud and debris sheeting across the road, a plugged public culvert, sloughing of the
road shoulder, and sinking and cracking in the pavement that required an emergency
closure of the road and abatement measures.
2. The emergency abatement measures resulted in over $387,000 in costs to County
Transportation funds.
3. Ms. Heather Moon is hereby assessed $_____________ in costs, due within 60 days
of this Order.
4. The Office of County Attorney is authorized to negotiate assessed costs and a
payment schedule with Ms. Heather Moon.
ADOPTED this 6th day of October, 2022.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Deborah Kafoury, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
SUBMITTED BY:
Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney
$387,000
Exhibit 1
MULTNOMAH COUNTY
AGENDA PLACEMENT REQUEST
Board Clerk Use Only
Meeting Date:
Agenda Item #:
Est. Start Time:
Agenda Title: Reporting on County Road Hazard Abatement Activities on SE Pounder
Road and Setting a Public Hearing to Assess Costs & Liability pursuant to ORS
368.276(1).
Requested Date: July 14, 2022 Time Needed: 10 minutes
Department/Division: Community
Services/Transportation
Requester Name & Email: Jon Henrichsen,
jon.p.henrichsen@multco.us
Please list all presenters, with their titles, organization or department, in order of
speaker, or note if their role is to answer questions:
Jon Henrichsen, County Engineer and DCS Transportation Division Director and Courtney
Lords, Senior Assistant County Attorney
Will your group join virtually or in-person? (check one)
___ Presenters will be in the Multnomah Building Boardroom
_X__ Presenters will be virtual/online. List emails of all virtual presenters:
Note: Virtual presenters must log in 15 mins prior to the start of the meeting to test
video & mic
General Information:
1. What are you requesting from the Board?
Reporting on County road hazard abatement activities on SE Pounder Road, in Corbett, in
accordance with ORS 368.271(4); and setting a public hearing date of October 6, 2022 for
the Board to assess costs of abatement and determine the person or party responsible for
payment of such costs pursuant to ORS 368.276(1).
2. Please provide sufficient background information for the Board and the public to
understand this issue. Please note which Program Offer(s) this action affects and how
it impacts the results.
This APR constitutes the County’s written report regarding Transportation’s emergency
abatement actions on SE Pounder Road, pursuant to ORS 368.271(4).  Transportation
was authorized to take emergency abatement actions, pursuant to ORS 368.271(1)(c), due
to the County Engineer’s determination that a road hazard was created and caused
emergency conditions and damage to the right of way, and presented a substantial risk of
damage or injury to the traveling public, requiring abatement without delay and without
notice or a hearing.
On or about February 23, 2021, Transportation was notified about large cracks forming in
SE Pounder Road in the Corbett area of east County.  Transportation did a site visit and
observed water, mud and debris sheeting across the road, a plugged public culvert,
sloughing of the road shoulder, and sinking and cracking in the pavement.  Based on these
observations, the County Engineer made a determination that a road hazard was present
and presented a substantial risk of damage or injury to the traveling public, requiring
abatement without delay and without notice or a hearing, and proceeded accordingly.
Transportation performed emergency work including removal and replacement of the
obstructed culvert, cleaned out the preexisting County ditch, regraded a ditch that was
created and modified by the property owner without County approval or notice, repaired a
roadway embankment that had washed out, cleared and replaced a man hole, installed a
rock retaining wall to support the road structure that was necessary due to unpermitted
excavation, replaced damaged asphalt, and replaced damaged fencing on an adjacent
property.  Corbett Water District also had to replace its water line.
3. Explain the fiscal impact (current year and ongoing).
Transportation incurred $387,005.00 in costs to remediate the road hazard and repair the
road due to the damage caused the property owner’s failure to comply with County rules
and regulations, as well as to obtain a right of way permit.  Consequently, and pursuant to
ORS 368.276, Transportation is seeking reimbursement of those costs.
4. Explain any legal and/or policy issues involved.
Pursuant to ORS 368.271, counties are authorized to take emergency actions to abate a
road hazard when a road hazard presents a substantial risk of damage, injury, or other
emergency condition.  Obstruction of a road drain is not permitted under ORS 368.251,
and creation of a road hazard is prohibited under ORS 368.256.  ORS 368.251 states:
When a county road official takes emergency abatement actions, the county road official is
required to file a written report to the county governing board explaining those actions, the
reason for the actions, and costs incurred in accordance with ORS 368.271(4); this APR is
that report.
Pursuant to ORS 368.276 and upon receipt of the report, the County governing body shall
set a hearing date and time to assess costs performed under ORS 368.271 and determine
persons liable for those costs.  A hearing date is requested for October 6, 2022.
This action is subsequent to the County obtaining a restraining order against the property
owner in Multnomah County Circuit Court, and a land use enforcement action that resulted
in a Hearings Officer Order in favor of the County.
5. Explain any community and/or other government participation that has or will take
place.
The public hearing required under ORS 368.276 allows for the adjacent property owner
and public participation in the County Board’s determination of costs and persons liable
for payment of those costs.
Required Signature:
Elected Official/
Department
Director:
/s/ Jamie Waltz
Date:
Note: Please insert name of your approver following the /s/. Send accompanying electronic
approvals to the Board Clerk.