Multnomah
  County
Comprehensive Plan
CHAPTER 8
PARKS AND RECREATION
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan  Parks and Recreation   |    8-2
INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
G
oal 8 of Oregon’s statewide planning goals requires cities and counties
to satisfy the recreational needs of its citizens, community members,
and visitors, and, where appropriate, to provide for the siting of
necessary recreational facilities including destination resorts. The goal and
its administrative rules call for local governments who have responsibility
for providing recreation services and facilities to plan for them in locations
and amounts that are consistent with the jurisdiction’s resources available to
provide them, and to do so in coordination with private entities.
Multnomah County made a policy decision in the early 1990’s that it did not
have the resources to plan for recreation areas and facilities on a county-wide
basis in the urban or rural areas of the County and that other government
agencies are better suited to plan for and provide recreation in Multnomah
County. Starting in 1993 Multnomah County transferred ownership and
management of a number of County recreation facilities to the Metro regional
government. These included Blue Lake Park, Oxbow Park, and a number
of boat ramps, beaches, and other facilities. As described in this chapter, a
variety of regional, state, and federal agencies provide for a wide range of
recreational activities within the rural areas of Multnomah County.
This chapter provides an overview of conditions and planning issues
associated with park and recreation planning, along with Comprehensive Plan
policies and strategies to address them.
Park and Recreation Conditions
Parks and Natural Areas
Multnomah County does not own or manage any parks or recreational
facilities. However, a variety of other local, regional, state, and federal
agencies, as well as private organizations, provide for a wide range of natural
areas, parks, and recreational activities in or directly adjacent to the County’s
rural lands. Examples include the following:
• City of Portland. Forest Park is adjacent to the West Hills area and is
owned and managed by the City of Portland. It includes the lower portions
of the Balch Creek Basin and is the City’s largest recreational area, as
well as the largest natural area park within an incorporated city in the
United States. Protection of its integrity as a natural park adjacent to the
city and as home to numerous native plant and animal species is a high
priority for both the City of Portland and Multnomah County as well as for
neighborhood and conservation organizations. The City of Portland has
adopted a Natural Resources Management Plan for Forest Park, which is
designed to protect and enhance the natural resources in the park.
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan  Parks and Recreation   |    8-3
• Metro. Metro is a regional government agency serving Multnomah
County residents and the greater Portland area. Metro, as a parks service
provider, has its roots in Multnomah County and the County’s park system.
In 1995, Metro assumed ownership and operation of a number of park
and recreational facilities previously owned and operated by the County,
including Oxbow Regional Park, Blue Lake Regional Park, Glendoveer
Golf Course and Fitness Trail, Howell Territorial Park, Gleason Memorial
Boat Ramp, Broughton Beach, Chinook Marine
Facility, historic cemeteries, and a number of
other facilities. Metro also owns and manages a
number of natural areas and nature preserves
in Multnomah County managed to protect
water quality, promote fish and wildlife habitat,
and provide access to nature. Metro’s facilities
provide a diverse range of outdoor recreational
opportunities and experiences, including boating,
hiking, bicycling, horseback riding, bird watching,
and general scenic and recreational access.
• Oregon Department of Parks and Recreation (ODPR). The state owns
and operates nine state parks or recreation areas within the rural parts of
Multnomah County, including Benson, Rooster Rock, Dabney, Government
Island, Lewis and Clark, Ainsworth, Women’s Forum, George W. Joseph,
Guy W. Talbot, and Wapato. The majority of these are in the eastern
portion of the County and several are in the Columbia River Gorge National
Scenic Area. Only the Wapato recreation and wildlife area is in the western
portion of the County (on Sauvie Island). The ODPR also manages
additional scenic corridors and trailheads in Multnomah County, primarily in
the Columbia River Gorge.
• Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife. This agency manages two
wildlife areas on Sauvie Island – the Sauvie Island Wildlife Area and the JR
Palensky Wildlife Mitigation Area.
• United States Forest Service (USFS). The USFS manages a significant
amount of land in the Mt. Hood National Forest in the eastern half of
the County within the Columbia River Gorge and East of Sandy areas,
including numerous recreation areas and trails. Within Multnomah County,
these opportunities are almost entirely within the Columbia Gorge National
Scenic Area. The facilities in the Gorge are some of the most heavily
visited recreation areas in the state of Oregon. On lands outside of the
National Scenic Area, only limited recreation on hiking trails is currently
allowed or foreseen in the future. Much of the area along the eastern edge
of the National Forest, adjacent to private lands which lie on tributaries of
the Sandy River, is closed to recreational activities because it is part of the
Bull Run watershed (municipal drinking water supply for Portland).
“The openness and greenery of the
area, together with expansive views
of four Cascade peaks and two rivers,
give the island a rare and special
beauty in the Portland metropolitan
area.”
- Sauvie Island/Multnomah Channel
Community Vision
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan  Parks and Recreation   |    8-4
• United States Bureau of Land Management. The US Bureau of Land
Management (BLM) manages approximately 643 acres of federally
owned land in the northern portion of the West Hills, divided into six non-
contiguous parcels. The BLM also manages about 3,580 acres in east
County. Currently these lands are managed primarily for timber production.
Sandy River parks are a major recreational attraction (approximately 1 million
visitors annually). The river is designated as a State Scenic Waterway and a
Federal Wild and Scenic River between Dodge Park and Dabney State Park.
The river provides easy access and outstanding habitat for anadromous fish,
due to its outfall into the Columbia below that river’s dam system, and the
relative lack of development in its watershed. The river is also large enough to
allow for non-motorized boating (rafting) and floating. Because it is classified
as a navigable waterway, the submerged and submersible lands along the
river are “waters of the state” and are managed and regulated by the Oregon
Department of State Lands. The parks along the river provide the opportunity
for nature study and day use, including rafting, kayaking, and river floating.
Several public and private camps are located adjacent to the river.
Trails
In addition to the facilities described above, people use a combination of
trails and rural roads for recreational walking and bicycling. Recreational
trails include those managed by local, regional, state, and federal agencies
and which sometimes cross multiple jurisdictions. Regional trails include the
Springwater Trail, connecting downtown Portland to the rural community of
Boring, the future Westside Trail that will connect Forest Park to the Bethany
area, and the Helvetia and Pacific Greenway Trails
The Burlington Northern railroad right-of-way from Highway 30 through
Cornelius Pass to Washington County is being considered for a rails-to-trails
conversion, which could provide an off-road cycling route through the hills near
Cornelius Pass Road and provide a key portion of the Helvetia regional trail.
A significant amount of recreational bicycling occurs on County roads
throughout the rural portions of the County, particularly on Sauvie Island, the
West Hills, and East of Sandy areas, as well as the Columbia River Gorge
National Scenic Area.
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan  Parks and Recreation   |    8-5
C o l u m b i a
C o u n t y
C l a r k
C o u n t y
W a s h i n g t o n
C o u n t y
CorneliusPassRoad
CornellRoad
SauvieIslandRd
Springville Road
Germantown Road
Reeder Road
Gillihan
Road
Skyline
Boulevard
ß/30
ß/26
vÍÎ120
vÍÎ219
vÍÎ99E
vÍÎ8
§¨¦
5
§¨¦
405
§¨¦
84
[0 1 20.5
Miles
Date:
10/13/2016
Prepared By:
Angelo Planning Group
Parks and/or Natural Areas
Cemeteries
Golf Courses
Subareas
County Boundaries
Parks and Open
Space
West Multnomah County
Coordinate System:
NAD 1983 HARN State Plane Oregon North FIPS 3601
Source:
Metro Regional Land Inventory System (RLIS) (2016)
Disclaimer:
Unofficial depiction, for illustrative purposes only.
Figure 8-1 - Parks and Open Space
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan  Parks and Recreation   |    8-6
C l a c k a m a s
C o u n t y
H o o d  R i v e r
C o u n t y
S k a m a n i a
C o u n t y
C l a r k
C o u n t y
Stark Street
Halsey Street
257th/KaneDrive
Glisan Street
Orient Drive
LustedRoad
Woodard Road
BrowerRoad
Troutdale
Road
TelfordRoad
Bluff Road
Marine Drive
Evans Road
Division Drive
223rd Avenue
Oxbow Drive
Hurlburt Road
302nd Avenue
Dodge Park Boulevard
Gordon Creek Road
LarchMountain Road
ß/30
ß/26
vÍÎ212
vÍÎ211
vÍÎ224
§¨¦
84
[0 2 41
Miles
Date:
10/13/2016
Prepared By:
Angelo Planning Group
Parks and/or Natural Areas
Cemeteries
Golf Courses
Subareas
County Boundaries
Parks and Open
Space
East Multnomah County
Coordinate System:
NAD 1983 HARN State Plane Oregon North FIPS 3601
Source:
Metro Regional Land Inventory System (RLIS) (2016)
Disclaimer:
Unofficial depiction, for illustrative purposes only.
Figure 8-2 - Parks and Open Space
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan  Parks and Recreation   |    8-7
Relevant Studies and Planning Processes
A variety of local, state, and regional plans and policies are relevant to
planning for parks and recreation in Multnomah County, including the following.
Oregon’s Statewide Planning Goal 8, Recreation Needs, calls for each
community to evaluate its areas and facilities for recreation and develop plans
to deal with the projected demand for them.
Metro has a variety of Parks and Open Space planning documents,
including policies associated with natural resource protection and
management, recreational planning, and individual facility master plans. The
agency’s parks and nature system, including overarching values, operating
procedures, facility descriptions and key strategies, is outlined in the Metro
Parks and Nature System Plan (2016).
Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Act establishes a national scenic
area to protect and provide for the enhancement of the scenic, cultural,
recreational, and natural resources of the Columbia River Gorge. It also
protects and supports the economy of the Columbia River Gorge area by
encouraging growth to occur in existing urban areas located throughout the
Gorge.
The Mt. Hood Land and Resources Management Plan guides all natural
resource management activities and establishes management standards and
guidelines for the Forest. It describes resource management practices, levels
of resource production and management, and the availability and suitability of
lands for resource management.
The Oregon Department of Parks and Recreation provides information on
state park master plans and the Statewide Comprehensive Outdoor Recreation
Plan (SCORP). The SCORP provides guidance to counties for delivering
quality outdoor recreational opportunities.
The Forest Park Natural Resources Management Plan formulates goals,
strategies, and actions to protect and enhance park resources and manage
recreation use. The plan includes recommendations, strategies and actions,
identifies projects, and provides regulations which govern park activities.
Individual park or recreation facility plans, such as those for Oxbow Park,
Columbia River Gorge facilities, Howell Territorial Park and others guide
activities at those sites.
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan  Parks and Recreation   |    8-8
Key Planning Issues and Supporting
Information
A number of key planning issues affect parks and open space planning policies
and practices in the rural portions of Multnomah County:
• Coordination with other agencies, including land use permitting.
While the County does not provide recreational services, it does coordinate
with those agencies that do. This includes sharing information with other
agencies and the public and reviewing land use permits for park and
recreation facilities in some cases. In reviewing land use permits, the
County must consider its Zoning Code requirements, as well as the policies
of this Plan.
• Balancing recreational use with protection of natural resources.
Oftentimes, recreational facilities are located within environmentally
sensitive areas where it is important to balance recreation needs with
natural resource management and protection objectives, particularly for
riparian areas and wildlife habitat. This issue was raised by community
members during preparation of this Comprehensive Plan and a number of
policies direct the County to balance these two different types of objectives.
• Recreational bicycle use on County roads. A significant number of
people use County roads for recreational bicycling. This was a topic of
significant discussion during Comprehensive Planning and Rural Area
Planning processes. Much of the discussion focused around ensuring that
bicycling on County roads can occur safely, that conflicts between different
types of road users are minimized, and that bicyclists and motorists are
courteous and respectful towards each other. The County’s TSP includes a
number of policies related to this topic.
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan  Parks and Recreation   |    8-9
GOAL, POLICIES, AND STRATEGIES
Goal: To help meet the recreational needs of Multnomah County rural
residents and visitors to its rural areas through support of, and coordination
with local, regional, state, and federal agencies that manage recreation
facilities and sites within the County.
Policies and Strategies Applicable County-wide
The policies in this section focus on coordination with other agencies in
planning for and providing recreational facilities and services and with
balancing recreational needs with goals for natural resource protection.
Additional related policies are found in Chapter 5 of this plan and in the
County’s Transportation System Plan (referenced in Chapter 12).
Parks and Recreation Planning
8.1 Support efforts of the Intertwine Alliance, Metro, and other
organizations in establishing a coordinated approach to create and
maintain a strong, interconnected regional network of parks, trails,
and natural areas.
8.2 Encourage the development of recreation opportunities by public
agencies and private entities consistent with wildlife habitat and
wildlife corridor protection.
8.3 Coordinate with other agencies in strategically siting new public
recreational facilities to take advantage of existing infrastructure
that allow for multi-modal access opportunities and shared parking.
An example would be joint use of park and school facilities by
locating them adjacent, or close, to each other.
Strategy 8.3-1: Include provisions in the Zoning Code for privately
owned and operated recreational facilities as conditional uses in
appropriate zones.
8.4 Ensure that the residents of areas outside of the urban growth
boundary are represented on parks and open space issues.
Strategy 8.4-1: Encourage Metro to appoint residents representing
different rural areas of Multnomah County to Metro’s parks and
greenspaces citizens’ advisory boards.
8.5 Consider the impacts of proposed recreation facilities on nearby
private properties and require applicants to avoid and minimize
significant adverse impacts to nearby properties.
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan  Parks and Recreation   |    8-10
Development Requirements
8.6 Require areas for bicycle parking facilities in development
proposals where appropriate.
West Hills Policies and Strategies
8.7 Support the natural systems and recreational values of Forest Park
and adjacent areas in concert with the City of Portland, Metro, and
other agencies.
Strategy 8.7-1: Promote and provide incentives for voluntary use of
conservation easements and habitat protection by property owners.
8.8 Support only those recreational activities within the West Hills area
that are consistent with, and do not cause significant negative
impacts on, natural and environmental resources that are identified
in Goal 5.
Sauvie Island and Multnomah Channel Policies
and Strategies
8.9 Continue to coordinate with Metro to ensure compliance with Rural
Reserve designations, implementation of Metro’s 2016 System
Plan, and planning for Howell Park. In particular, work with Metro to:
1. Ensure activities will complement natural and environmental
resources of local and regional significance; and
2. Ensure that Howell Territorial Park uses and improvements
maintain harmony with the rural character of the plan area as
well as natural and cultural resources.
8.10 Support only those recreational activities within the SIMC area
that are complementary to and do not negatively impact natural
and environmental resources on Sauvie Island and along the
Multnomah Channel and its tributaries that are identified in Goal 5.
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan  Parks and Recreation   |    8-1 1
West of Sandy Policies and Strategies
8.11 Support upgrades and improvements to Oxbow Park consistent
with the character of the surrounding area.
Strategy 8.11-1: Work with Metro to develop a park zoning district
for Oxbow Park.
East of Sandy Policies and Strategies
8.12 Maintain and enhance the recreational value of the Sandy River
and Columbia River and adjacent areas in concert with the
Columbia River Gorge Commission, Metro, Oregon Parks and
Recreation Department, US Forest Service, and other agencies.
Strategy 8.12-1: Implement this policy through the existing National
Scenic Area and Significant Environmental Concern provisions
within the Multnomah County Zoning Code, and participate in other
agency plans such a future National Scenic Area Management Plan
update and Metro’s Oxbow Park Master Plan.