BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
PROCLAMATION NO.
Proclaiming the Week of April 18 through April 24th, 2021 as “National Crime
Victims’ Rights Week” in Multnomah County, Oregon.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
A. Each year, thousands of residents in Multnomah County experience victimization
that can result in trauma, pain, humiliation, destabilization, personal and financial
losses;
B. Crime impacts each person uniquely, it can change the way a person sees
themselves as well as how they see the world around them . It can shatter a
person’s sense of safety and negative consequences can ripple out into every area
of their life. These impacts are felt not only by the person directly harmed but those
closest to them; through families, friendships and whole communities.
C. This week elevates the importance of crime victim rights’ and their critical role in
providing crime victims and survivors ways to meaningfully participate in the
criminal justice process;
D. Crimes can leave a lasting impact on any person, regardless of age, national
origin, race, creed, religion, gender, sexual orientation, immigration, or economic
status;
E. Serving victims, honoring their rights, and being responsive to their diverse needs,
restores hope to survivors and supports healthy, thriving communities.
F. The Multn omah County District Attorney’s Office and Multnomah County
Department of Community Justice renew our commitment to preventing violence
before it begins.
G. On this week, we recog nize and honor the dedicated efforts  that Multnomah
County takes every day to promote the  physical, emotional, and developmental
health of children, teens, adults, families and community.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
The week of April 18 through April 24, 2021, to be National Crime Victims’ Rights Week
in Multnomah County, Oregon and reaffirms this County’s commitment to a victim service
and criminal justice response that treats all crime victims and survivors with humanity ,
respect and compassion, is responsive to their unique  needs, and honors  all of their
rights.
2021-026
ADOPTED this 22th day of April 2021.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Deborah Kafoury, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
SUBMITTED BY: