BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
PROCLAMATION NO. 2021-095
Proclaiming September 2021 as Recovery Month in Multnomah County, Oregon.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
A. Recovery Month is celebrated every September to increase awareness that prevention,
treatment and recovery services are available and effective in helping people with substance
use disorders to succeed in achieving their goals for health and wellness.  The  2021 National
theme for Recovery Month is “Recovery is for Everyone:  Every Individual, Every Family, Every
Community.”
B. Anyone can experience a substance use disorder that may lead to problems at work,
school, or at home and affect the overall wellne ss of individuals, families, and communities.
Some population groups are at much higher risk. These include persons from diverse
backgrounds and cultures, rural residents; the LGBTQ+ community; older adults; persons with
disabilities; and those experienci ng homelessness, with low income or low education, and
otherwise adversely impacted by social determinants of health.
C. Many individuals who already struggle with substance misuse are also struggling with
social, financial, and health disruptions during the COVID-19 pandemic.  The ongoing epidemic
of racism, and the racial unrest of the past year have coincided with the prolonged isolation and
hardships brought on by the virus. Oregon saw a near 40% increase in overdose fatalities in
2020.
D. There are multiple routes to treatment and recovery. There is no one “right” method that
works for everyone. It’s important for each individual to choose what is right for them, and
remember that recovery is on-going and not time limited.
E. Many individuals live  with both substance use disorders and mental health challenges.
Multnomah County recognizes the need for integrated behavioral health treatment. Behavioral
health is vital to overall health and well -being and should be treated with the same urgency as
physical health.
F. Substance use is identified as a social indicator of health. People who face substance
use disorders often are excluded from positive social engagement and opportunities, which can
lead to shortened life spans and a host of other social and health challenges. Engaging in
meaningful prevention work, including peer recovery support, changes life outcomes in healthy
ways.
G. People experiencing substance use or mental health issues should be free from stigma,
and able to participate fully in their community with access to appropriate healthcare, safe and
healthy housing, economic opportunity, and support from community members.  People in
recovery need community support to thrive, and communities thrive when people experience
increased wellness.
H. Multnomah County is committed to helping all residents experiencing behavioral health
challenges by providing an array of services that are accessible, culturally specific and
responsive, and supported by peers with similar lived experience.
I. Individuals can and do recover.  Multnomah County celebrates this month in recognition
of the fact that every individual’s journey of recovery contributes to healthier communities,
including improved relationships with families and friends, increased stability in employment and
housing, and opportunities to use their lived experience to promote recovery for others.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
The month of September 2021 is proclaimed to be Recovery Month in Multnomah County,
Oregon. All county residents are invited to celebrate this year’s theme, “Recovery is for
Everyone, Every Individual, Every Family, Every Community,” which emphasizes the important
role we all play in supporting recovery for individuals, families a nd communities impacted by
substance use disorders. People can and do recover. There is hope, and help is available. We
invite all residents to share their stories of hope and recovery in observance of this month.
ADOPTED this 16th day of September, 2021.
SUBMITTED BY: Ebony Clarke, Director
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Deborah Kafoury, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By
 Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney