BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
ORDINANCE NO. 1281
Amending Multnomah County's Comprehensive Plan, Zoning Map, Zoning Code, and Land Use
Services Fee Schedule to Incorporate Amendments to the City of Portland's Comprehensive
Plan, Comprehensive Plan Map and Zoning Map, and Zoning and Development Code revising
Bicycle Parking Regulations and Land Use Service Fee Schedule; Restricting Bulk Fossil Fuel
Terminals; and Amending the Multi-Dwelling Residential Base Zones and Declaring an
Emergency.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. Pursuant to an intergovernmental agreement executed in 2002 (the "IGA"), the City of
Portland, Oregon ("City"), provides, with certain exceptions, land use planning services
for those areas of unincorporated Multnomah County located within the City's Urban
Services Boundary (the "Unincorporated Urban Areas").
b. Because the County retains legislative authority over the Unincorporated Urban Areas,
the County assumed an obligation in the IGA to amend County land use policies and
regulations as they relate to the Unincorporated Urban Areas to incorporate applicable
City land use policies and regulations, and all subsequent amendments thereto.
c. In Resolution 2019-062, the County established land use services fees, including fees for
planning services provided by the City of Portland under the IGA, which were set out in
Exhibit B to that Resolution.
d. Through Ordinance No.189784, the Portland City Council amended Title 33-Planning and
Zoning code to update bicycle parking regulations and the fee schedule for Land Use
Services to ensure new development and major redevelopment provides adequate,
secure and convenient short-term and long-term bicycle parking. City Ordinance
No.189784 will take effect on March 1, 2020.
e. Through Ordinance No. 189805, the Portland City Council adopted amendments to the
City of Portland's Comprehensive Plan, Comprehensive Plan Map and Official Zoning
Map, Title 33 - Planning and Zoning, Title 30 - Affordable Housing, Title 18 - Noise
Control, Title 32 - Signs and related regulations to revise the Multi-Dwelling Residential
designation and base zones. These medium- to high-density residential zones provide
opportunities for new housing to better meet the needs of a growing Portland. The
purpose of the update is to create more housing options for households of all ages,
incomes and sizes. City Ordinance N9.189805 will take effect on March 1, 2020, with. the
exception of directive e in the Ordinance, which takes effect on June 1, 2020. The
amendments to Title 18 (Noise Control) and Title 30 (Affordable Housing) are outside the
scope of the IGA, and the County therefore does not need to adopt amendments to apply
those changes to the Unincorporated Urban Areas.
Page 1 of 3 - Amending Multnomah County's Comprehensive Plan, Zoning Map, Zoning Code, and Land Use
Services Fee Schedule to Incorporate Amendments to the City of Portland's Comprehensive Plan,
Comprehensive Plan Map and Zoning Map, and Zoning and Development Code revising Bicycle
Parking Regulations and Land Use Service Fee Schedule; Restricting Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminals; .
and Amending the Multi-Dwelling Residential Base Zones and Declaring an Emergency.
f. Through Ordinance No. 189807, the Portland City Council readopted remanded
Ordinance 188142 to restict the development and expansion of bulk fossil fuel terminals
by amending Title 33-Planning and zoning. City Ordinance No.189807 took effect by
emergency on December 18, 2019.
g. The City has requested that the County amend the County's Comprehensive Plan, Zoning
Map, Zoning Code, and Land Use Services Fee Schedule to incorporate the changes
implemented in City ordinance numbers 189784, 189805 and 189807.
h. Pursuant to State and City notice requirements, as well as the terms of the IGA, the City
provided public notice of City Ordinance numbers 189784, 189805 and 189807. The City
provided an opportunity for the public to be heard at several public hearings, culminating
with hearings before the City's Planning and Sustainability Commission and the City
Council.
Multnomah County Ordains as Follows:
Section 1. The County's Comprehensive Plan, Zoning Map and Zoning Code are amended
to incorporate the following: ·
Exhibit No. Description County Effective Date
1 Ordinance to Update Bicycle Parking March 1, 2020
Regulations and Amend Fee Schedule for
Land Use Services (Portland Ordinance
189784)
2 Amendments to the Comprehensive Plan, March 1, 2020, except
Comprehensive Plan Map, Zoning Map, Title that directive e shall
33-Planning and Zoning, and Title 32-Signs take effect June 1, 2020
and Related Regulations as set forlh in
Ordinance to Amend the Comprehensive
Plan, Comprehensive Plan Map, Zoning
Map, Title 33-Planning and Zoning, Title 18-
Noise Control, Title 30-Affordable Housing,
Title 32-Signs and Related Regulations to
Revise the Multi-Dwelling Residential
Designations and Base Zones (Portland
Ordinance 189805)
3 Ordinance to Readopt Remanded Ordinance February 27, 2020
No. 188142 to Restrict Bulk Fossil Fuel
Terminals (Portland Ordinance 189807)
Section 2. In accordance with ORS 215.427(3), the changes resulting from Section 1 of this
ordinance shall not apply to any decision on an application that is submitted before the applicable
effective dates of this ordinance and that is made complete prior to the applicable effective dates
of this ordinance or within 180 days of the initial submission of the application.
Page 2 of 3 - Amending Multnomah County's Comprehensive Plan, Zoning Map, Zoning Code, and Land Use
Services Fee Schedule to Incorporate Amendments to the City of Portland's Comprehensive Plan,
Comprehensive Plan Map and Zoning Map, and Zoning and Development Code revising Bicycle
Parking Regulations and Land Use Service Fee Schedule; Restricting Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminals;
and Amending the Multi-Dwelling Residential Base Zones and Declaring an Emergency.
Section 3. In accordance with ORS 92.040(2), for any subdivisions for which the initial
application is submitted before the applicable effective date of this ordinance, the subdivision
application and any subsequent application for construction shall be governed by the County's
land use regulations in effect as of the date the subdivision application is first submitted.
Section 4. Any future amendments to the legislative matters listed in Section 1 above are
exempt from the requirements of MCC 39.1210. The Board acknowledges, authorizes and
agrees that the Portland Planning and Sustainability Commission will act instead of the
Multnomah County Planning Commission for the Unincorporated Urban Areas by employing the
City's own legislative procedures, including providing notice to, and facilitating participation from,
property · owners within Unincorporated Urban Areas. The Board will consider the
recommendations of the Portland Planning and Sustainability Commission and City Council
when legislative land use matters for the Unincorporated Urban Areas come before the Board
for action.
Section 5. This ordinance being necessary for the health, safety, and general welfare of the
people of Multnomah County, an emergency is declared and adoption of Ordinance No. 189807
will take effect immediately upon being signed pursuant to Section 5.50 of the Multnomah County
Home Rule Charter. City Ordinance No.189805 will take effect on March 1, 2020, except that
directive e shall take effect on June 1, 2020. Ordinance No.189784 will take effect on March 1,
2020.
Section 6. The amendments to the Land Use Services Fee Schedule set forth in Section 1
are repealed upon the Board's adoption of a Resolution repealing and replacing
Resolution 2019-062, at which point the Resolution replacing Resolution 2019-062 shall set forth
the relevant Land Use Services Fee Schedule.
FIRST READING AND ADOPTION: February 27, 2020
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By ~ J11191&t.lJ:~····
Katherine Thomas, Assistant County Attorney
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
~bf(Jo
Deborah Kafoury, Chair
SUBMITTED BY: Jamie Waltz, Interim Director, Department of Community Services.
Page 3 of 3 - Amending Multnomah County's Comprehensive Plan, Zoning Map, Zoning Code, and Land Use
Services Fee Schedule to Incorporate Amendments to the City of Portland's Comprehensive Plan,
Comprehensive Plan Map and Zoning Map, and Zoning and Development Code revising Bicycle
Parking Regulations and Land Use Service Fee Schedule; Restricting Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminals;
and Amending the Multi-Dwelling Residential Base Zones and Declaring an Emergency.
Ordinance No. 1 8 9 7 8 4 As Amended
Update bicycle parking regulations and amend fee schedule for Land Use Services
(Ordinance; amend Title 33, Planning and Zoning)
The City of Portland Ordains:
Section 1 . The Council finds:
General Findings
1. The Bicycle Parking Code Update Project- Recommended Draft (Exhibit A)
amends Title 33 to update the existing requirements for bicycle parking
(33.266.200) to ensure new construction provides adequate, secure and
convenient short- and long-term bicycle parking.
2. Community involvement conducted for the Bicycle Parking Code Update Project
is outlined in the Bicycle Parking Code Update Project - Recommended Draft
Appendices (Exhibit C).
3. On December 12, 2018, the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability published the
Bicycle Parking Code Update - Proposed Draft for review by the public and the
Portland Planning and Sustainability Commission.
4. On December 17, 2018, notice of the proposed action was submitted to the
Department of Land Conservation and Development in compliance with the post­
acknowledgement review process required by OAR 660-018-0020 and ORS
197.610.
5. On December 17, 2018, notice of the proposal and the public hearings before the
Planning and Sustainability Commission was mailed to all neighborhood
associations, neighborhood coalitions, and business associations in the city of
Portland, as well as other interested persons, as required by PCC 33.740.
6. On January 22, 2019 the Planning and Sustainability Commission held a public
hearing on the Bicycle Parking Code Update Project- Proposed Draft, and
testimony was received. The Planning and Sustainability Commission held work
sessions on February 11 and 26, 2019 to address issues raised in testimony.
The Commission voted to make several amendments to the proposal, and then
voted to recommend approval of the amendments to Title 33 of the Bicycle
Parking Code Update- Proposed Draft, as amended by the Commission, to City
Council for adoption.
Page I of 3
189784
7. On October 2, 2019, the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability published the
Planning and Sustainability Commission's Bicycle Parking Code Update -
Recommended Draft (Exhibit A).
8. On October 14, 2019 notice of the November 13, 2019 City Council hearing on
the Bicycle Parking Code Update- Recommended Draft was mailed to those who
presented testimony orally or in writing to the Planning and Sustainability
Commission and provided a name and address, and those who asked for notice.
9. The Finding of Facts Report, attached as Exhibit B, includes additional findings
demonstrating consistency with the Statewide Planning Goals, Metro Urban
Growth Management Functional Plan, and the City of Portland 2035
Comprehensive Plan.
10. BOS has determined that the Bicycle Parking Code Update results in more
complex code, thereby increasing plan review workload and associated
expenses.
11 . BOS has further determined that an increase to the Land Use Services Plan
Check fee of $0.11 per $1,000 valuation will cover the costs of administering the
additional workload requirements outlined in this ordinance. The fee change will
be incorporated into the "Land Use Services Fee Schedule ," as outlined in
Exhibit 0 .
NOW, THEREFORE, the Council directs:
a. Amend Title 33, Planning and Zoning , as shown in Exhibit A, Bicycle Parking
Code Update Project, Recommended Draft, dated May 2019.
b. Adopt the commentary and discussion in Exhibit A, Bicycle Parking Code Update
- Recommended Draft, dated May 2019, as findings and legislative intent.
c. Adopt Exhibit B as findings and legislative intent.
d. Amend the Land Use Services Fee Schedule to increase the Plan Check fee for
Commercial and Residential to $2.23 per $1,000 valuation as shown in Exhibit 0 .
This directive is binding city policy.
Section 2. If any section , subsection , sentence , clause , phrase , diagram , designation, or
drawing contained in this Ordinance , or the plan, map or code it adopts or amends , is
held to be deficient, invalid or unconstitutional , that shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions . The Council declares that it would have adopted the plan, map, or
code and each section , subsection , sentence, clause , phrase , diagram , designation ,
and drawing thereof , regardless of the fact that any one or more sections , subsect ions,
18973 4
sentences, clauses , phrases , diagrams, designations, or drawings contained in this
Ordinance, may be found to be deficient, invalid or unconstitutional.
Section 3. The directives of this ordinance will take effect on March 1, 2020
Passed by the Council: DEC O 4 2019
Mayor Ted Wheeler
Prepared ,by: Liz Hormann
Mary Hull Caballero
Auditor o~ ~~pnd
By~,,i}<v
Date Prepared: October 16, 2019 Deputy
~ - 1~1 0 ~ :-.=
A d N . . .. ··• gen a o. J.,
ORDINANCE NO. 1 8 9 I 3 4 As Amended
Title
Amer:id Title 33-te J:!Pdate ,tM bicycle parking regulations and amend fee schedule for Land Use
Services (Ordinance; fmend Title 33/J' P( u '0r-i "S c.t"-r 7.c r·,,, c)
INTRODUCED BY
Commissioner/ Auditor :
Wh ~
COMMISSIONER APPROVAL
Ma or-Finance & Administration - Wheel
Position 1/Utilities - Fritz
Position 2/Works - Fish
Position 3/Affairs - Hardes
Position 4/Safe - Eudal --------1 1
Prepared by: Liz Hormann
Date Pre ared: October 17, 2019
Impact Statement
Completed IZI Amends Budget D
Portland Policy Document
If "Yes" requires City Policy paragraph stated
in document.
Yes D No □
City Auditor Office Approval:
required for Code Ordinances
City Attorney Approval:
required for contract, code, easement,
franchise, comp plan, charter
Council Meeting Date November
13,2019
AGENDA
TIME CERTAIN ~
Start time: 2:00 pm
Total amount of time needed: 2 hours
(for presentation, testimony and discussion)
CONSENT □
REGULAR □
Total amount of time needed: --(for presentation , testimony and discussion)
C IV O 52019
ull Caballero
e City of Portland
By:
ACTION TAKEN:
Continued to November 20, 2019
NOV 1 3 2019 at 11 :20 AM Time Certain
NOV 2 0 201S Passed to Second Reading December 4, 2019
at 11 :OS a.m. Time Certain As Amended
FOUR-FIFTHS AGENDA COMMISSIONERS VOTED
AS FOLLOWS:
YEAS
1. Fritz 1. Fritz ✓
2. Fish 2. Fish ✓
3. Hardesty 3. Hardesty
4. Eudaly 4. Eudaly ✓
Wheeler Wheeler ✓
NAYS
EXHIBIT D
 City of Portland Bureau of Development Services  Land Use Services Fee Schedule 	Plan Check   (If the applicant does not provide the valuation, the maximum will be charged.)	  Maximum number of allowable checksheets: 2	  Any additional checksheets will be charged at the rate of $184 per checksheet.	     Commercial and Residential $2.12 2.23 per $1,000 valuation  $155 minimum 	All other fees on the Land Use Services Fee Schedule remain unchanged.
ORDINANCE NO. 7 AIAmeaded
*Readopt remanded Ordinance No. 188142 to restrict bulk fossil fuel terminals . (Ordinance;
Amend Title 33, Planning and Zoning)
The City of Portland ordains:
Section 1. The Council finds:
General Findings
1. The rapid development of fossil fuel resources in the western U.S. and Canada has
resulted in numerous facility and infrastructure projects proposed to transport coal,
diluted bitumen , natural gas, propane or other fossil fuels through the West Coast.
2. Fossil fuels pose risks to safety, health , and livability, including mobility of people , other
freight , and other commercial vehicles.
3. The State of Oregon and the greater Pacific Northwest are vulnerable to powerful
subduction zone earthquakes that occur with periodic frequency along the Juan de Fuqua
and North American plates .
4. In the past , both the Huu-ay-aht First Nation peoples and the Makah tribe shared similar
stories of lost land and peoples as a result of these earthquakes and tsunamis , which
scientific research has matched with Japanese tsunami records and on-the-ground
geologic field research to reconstruct the Cascadia earthquake of 1700. This research
shows that subduction zone earthquakes have occurred along the Pacific Northwest with
relative regularity over the last 10,000 years , and if averages from past events are
predictive , the region could be overdue for another powerful subduction zone earthquake.
5. Many of the city's buildings and critical infrastructure were built before the city ' s seismic
exposure was widely understood. This infrastructure includes Oregon's primary liquid
fuel storage facilities , the Critical Energy Infrastructure (CEI) hub, which is located in
northwest Portland and receives 90 percent of the state ' s liquid fuel supply either via
pipeline or marine vessel. Most of the storage tanks within the CEI hub have been built
prior to any design and performance lessons learned from the damaging Great Alaskan
earthquake of 1964 and the many other documented earthquakes that followed.
6. The CEI hub is vulnerable to failure in the event of subduction zone earthquake. A 2012
Oregon Department of Geology and Mineral Industries (DOGAMI) Earthquake Risk
Study for Oregon's Critical Energy Infrastructure Hub report states that a magnitude 8 or
9 Cascadia Subduction Zone earthquake would impact the CEI Hub with: ground
shaking ; liquefaction (soil behavior phenomenon in which a saturated sand softens and
loses strength during strong earthquake ground shaking); lateral spreading (where
surficial soil permanently moves laterally due to earthquake shaking); landslides; co­
seismic settlement (where the ground surface is permanently lowered due to seismic
shaking); and bearing capacity failures (when the foundation soil cannot support the
structure it is intended to support). The study also notes that, at the time, only three
existing storage tanks were known to have addressed liquefaction vulnerabilities.
7. The 2013 Oregon Resilience Plan raised concerns about the sturdiness of CEI facilities
constructed on soils susceptible to liquefaction, and infrastructure not built to current
standards given the hub's age-range of structures.
8. The Portland Bureau of Emergency Management's Mitigation Action Plan (MAP)
identifies how natural hazard events like floods, landslides, and earthquakes might affect
the City of Portland. The Portland area has experienced numerous earthquakes in the
past, ranging from Magnitude 4.5 to 9.0. Portland is certain to experience seismic events
in the future. Many of Portland ' s fossil fuel storage tanks were built before seismic
design requirements in building codes were adopted.
9. Most of Portland ' s employment and industrial zones are in areas with high to very high
levels of liquefaction susceptibility , as documented by the 2018 DOGAMI Earthquake
Regional Impact Analysis. Fossil fuel infrastructure poses considerable risks in the event
of a major earthquake.
10. The extraction and combustion of fossil fuels are significant sources of greenhouse gas
emissions and major contributors to climate change and pollution.
11 . Coal contains toxic heavy metals , including mercury , arsenic and lead, and exposure to
these toxic heavy metals is linked to cancer , birth defects and other health problems .
12. A Union Pacific train carrying oil from North Dakota to Tacoma derailed in Mosier,
Oregon on June 3, 2016, spilling 42,000 gallons of crude oil, igniting a fire, and leading
to the evacuation of one-quarter of the town ' s residents .
13. Tribal communities in Oregon and Washington have expressed concerns about the safety
risks of fossil fuel infrastructure and the related threats to human health, cultural heritage ,
and environmental quality.
14. The City 's 2015 Climate Action Plan (adopted by Resolution 37135) identifies the need
to establish a "fossil fuel export policy that considers lifecycle emissions , safety ,
economics, neighborhood livability and environmental impacts" (Climate Action Plan ,
action 3G, page 69).
15. The City committed in its 2015 Climate Action Plan to advancing policy and programs to
reduce local fossil fuel use both in the City ' s own operations and through community­
wide initiatives.
16. In Resolutions 36959 and 36962 adopted in 2012, the Council expressed opposition to
coal trains traveling through Portland until a programmatic , comprehensive and area-
189 07
wide Environmental Impact Statement and comprehensive Health Impact Assessment are
completed.
17. Resolution 37168, adopted November 12, 2015, expressed the City Council's opposition
to the "expansion of infrastructure whose primary purpose is transporting or storing fossil
fuels in or through Portland or adjacent waterways." It also expressed the Council's intent
not to restrict improvements in safety, efficiency, or seismic resilience; the provision of
service directly to end users; or infrastructure that will accelerate the transition to non­
fossil fuel energy sources.
18. The 2035 Comprehensive Plan sets policy direction (Policies 4.75 and 4.76) to encourage
disaster-resilient development and specifically to reduce natural hazard risks to critical
energy and transportation infrastructure in Portland Harbor.
19. The first step in making the current situation better is to ensure that the situation does not
get worse. Continuing to allow the unlimited increase in fossil fuel terminal storage tank
capacity in a moderate to high risk area increases the risk to the surrounding industrial
district and the Willamette River. The FFTZ amendments are a regulatory approach that
will limit the size of new fossil fuel terminals and prohibit the expansion of storage
capacity at existing fossil fuel terminals, with limited exceptions, which will be an
improvement compared to the current regulations that allow for unlimited growth in
fossil fuel terminals.
20. These Zoning Code amendments create a new land use category with development
standards that limit the size of new terminals and prohibit the expansion of existing
terminals.
21. The amendments promote major benefits to human health and safety, environmental
health and resilience, with minor impacts to economic prosperity and equity.
22. The amendments will prohibit expansion at existing fuel terminals and limit new terminal
development, potentially impacting associated job growth and tax revenue. At the same
time, the code restrictions on fossil fuel terminal development will also limit potential
financial risks from a major accident involving fossil fuel infrastructure.
23 . The amendments will limit the risk of low, but potentially catastrophic, safety risks
associated with fossil fuel infrastructure.
24. The amendments will allow for the continued operation, but prohibit expansion of storage
capacity, with some exceptions, at existing fuel terminals and limit new terminal
development.
25. The amendments will restrict development of fossil fuel terminals consistent with City
and State objectives on climate change and public safety. While fossil fuels like natural
gas and propane have the potential to replace higher-carbon fuels, substituting these fuels
for higher-carbon fuels does not begin to approach the goal of an 80% reduction in
carbon emissions by 2050 established in Portland's Climate Action Plan or the State of
Oregon's 75% reduction goal.
26. In Resolution 37168 , the City Council expressed support for accelerating the transition to
non-fossil fuel energy sources. As part of that transition , the Oregon Department of
Environmental Quality (ODEQ) is implementing the Oregon Clean Fuels Program , which
requires a 10 percent reduction in average carbon intensity by 2025. Fuels that could be
used to achieve the standards include ethanol , biodiesel , electricity , hydrogen , natural
gas, propane , and biogas , which may require additional storage capacity. In order to
facilitate implementation of the Clean Fuels Program, non-fossil fuel storage tanks are
not subject to the capacity limits .
27. Ordinance No. 188142 was appealed to the Oregon Land Use Board of Appeals (LUBA).
LUBA issued an order reversing the City ' s Ordinance in Columbia Pacific Building
Trades Council et al v. City of Portland , LUBA Case No. 2017-001, July 19 2017).
28. LUBA ' s decision was appealed to the Oregon Court of Appeals , which overturned
LUBA ' s decision which was affirmed in part and reversed in part in Columbia Pacific
Building Trades Council v. City of Portland , 289 Or App 739(2018).
29. The Oregon Court of Appeals decision was appealed to the Oregon Supreme Court ,
which denied review in Columbia Pacific Building Trades Council v. City of Portland ,
363 Or 390 (2018).
30. On October 5, 2018 , LUBA remanded Columbia Pacific Building Trades Council et al v.
City of Portland, LUBA Case No.2017-001 to assignments of error that LUBA sustained
and were either affirmed or not challenged on appeal to the Court of Appeals.
31. A general notification of the November 20, 2019 , City Council public hearing on the
remand of Ordinance No . 188142 was sent to the City ' s legislative notice list, the fossil
fuel terminal property owners , and the parties to the appeal.
32. On November 20, 2019 , the Portland City Council held a public hearing and received
testimony on the re-adoption of the fossil fuel terminal zoning restrictions .
Conclusion
33. The City Council has considered applicable policies , as described in Exhibit A, to
determine that this ordinance on the whole complies with the 2035 Comprehensive Plan
and on balance is equally or more supportive of the goals and policies of the 2035
Comprehensive Plan than the current regulations. In reaching this conclusion, City
Council has weighed and balanced competing policy directions. In particular , the
Council finds that:
a. Statewide Planning Goal 7 (Natural Hazards) and 2035 Comprehensive Plan Goal
4.D with Policies 4.79 and 4.80, requires reducing risk to people and property
from natural hazards. The FFTZ amendments further these goals and policies
because by limiting the risks of storing large volumes of hazardous materials in an
area with moderate to high susceptibility to an earthquake. Large fossil fuel
terminals represent a risk to people, property and the natural environments that
the City Council finds as a compelling reason to limit future risk by limiting the
size of new facilities and prohibit the expansion of existing facilities. Continuing
to allow an unlimited increase in storage capacity at FFTs in a moderate to high
risk area would be less supportive of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan than adopting
the FFTZ amendments
b. Policy 6.48 provides direction to limit fossil fuel terminals to what is necessary to
serve the regional. The City Council recognizes that Portland's fossil fuel
terminals handle 90 percent of the fossil fuel for the State of Oregon and
Southwest Washington. These changes support the retention of existing fossil fuel
terminals by designating them as a limited use that allows the terminals to
continue to operate and invest in upgrades and supports opportunities for growth
through exceptions, such as aviation or renewable fuels . Further, the use
limitations provide flexibility to FFTs to replace and reconfigure existing storage
tank capacity to increase safety and meet future needs. In addition, limiting
storage capacity to the existing facilities reduces risk from a major earthquake,
which outweighs the policy direction to provide capacity to accommodate any
potential future increase in fossil fuel consumption , in part , because continuing to
consolidate fossil fuel storage capacity in Portland is counter to resiliency
principles that emphasize redundancy and distributed facilities.
c. Statewide Planning Goal 9 (Economic Development) and 2035 Comprehensive
Plan Goal 6.C with Policies 6.20 and 6.36 , among others , provide for the retention
and growth of businesses , especially those in the traded sector. The City Council
interprets these policies apply to the economy in general, rather than specific
types of business. These changes and restrictions only apply to a narrowly defined
new land use category, Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminals, and do not have a significant
effect on the other allowed uses in industrial and employment zones. There are
no changes proposed to the Comprehensive Plan or Zoning Map that will impact
the overall size or intensity of development in the industrial and employment
areas of Portland. These amendments are narrowly constructed to apply to one
class of businesses that make up a small portion of the city, regional and state
economy. Further, these regulations only limit future expansion of these fossil
fuel terminals , with some key exceptions, and designate these businesses as a
limited use that allows their continued operation.
d. Guilds Lake Industrial Sanctuary (GLIS) Plan policies provide direction to
maintain, protect and enhance businesses in the sanctuary. This plan was adopted
in 2001 and does not address the need for resiliency in a high and medium
liquefaction susceptibility area. The City Council interprets these policies to apply
to the GUS as a whole and not individual businesses . The City Council interprets
the legislative intent of the GLISP is to maintain the area as an industrial
sanctuary and to prohibit incompatible land uses. The FFTZ amendments do not
include map changes , nor do they allow for new incompatible land uses that could
undermine the viability of the industrial sanctuary. These regulations apply to
only one type of business that makes up a minority part of the businesses found in
GLIS. The remaining industrial uses to continue to operate under current
189807
regulations. The impact of the limits on fossil fuel terminals is mitigated by
desi gnating existing fossil fuel terminals as a limited use that allows the terminals
to continue to operate and make upgrades and supports limited enhancement
through exceptions to the storage capacity restrictions.
NOW THEREFORE , The Council directs:
a. Adopt Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report (as amended) December 2019 as additional
findings .
b. Amend Title 33, Planning and Zoning , as shown in Exhibit B, Fossil Fuel Terminal
Zoning Amendments , Remand Report , dated December 18, 2019 .
c. Adopt the commentary in Exhibit B, Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments , Remand
Report , dated December 18, 2019 , as legislative intent and further findings.
d. Adopt Exhibit C. LUBA Record for Columbia Pacific Building Trades Council et al v.
City of Portland , LUBA Case No. 2017-001 , as additional evidence.
e. The Bureau of Planning and Sustainability shall report to City Council no later than
December 31 , 2021 on the implementation of this ordinance , including:
• the number and description of any requests by existing terminal operators to
upgrade and replace storage capacity at their facilities;
• the numb er and description of building permits issued for fossil fuel tanks
between 125,000 and 2 million gallons ;
• the trends in fossil fuel energy use and non-fossil energy use in Oregon ;
• the statu s of local and state regulatory proceedings that may improve s eismic
resilience of fossil fuel storage infrastructure; and
• information on compliance with the Oregon Clean Fuels Program .
f. City Bureaus , including BDS , PBEM and Fire , shall work with the State of Oregon to
develop policy options to require seismic upgrades of storage tanks within a firm
deadline for replacement of older , unsafe tanks.
Section 2.
The Council declares that an emergency exists due to the fact that Portland is currently at risk of
a major earthquake ; therefore , this ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage by the Council.
Section 3.
If any section, subsection , sentence , clause , phrase , diagram , designation , or drawing contained
in this Ordinance , or the plan , map or code it adopts or amends , is held to be deficient , invalid or
unconstitutional , that shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions. The Council
declares that it would have adopted the plan, map , or code and each section, subsection ,
sentence , clause , phrase , diagram , designation , and drawing thereof , regardless of the fact that
any one or more sections , subsections , sentences , clauses , phrases , diagrams , designations , or
drawings contained in this Ordinance , may be found to be deficient , invalid or unconstitutional.
Passed by the Council: DEC 1 8 2019
Mayor Ted Wheeler
Prepared by: T. Armstrong
Date Prepared: October 31 , 2019
Page 7 of7
189807
Mary Hull Caballero
~~dit;2:r y of Portland
q<-e ~ eputy
Agenda No.
ORDINANCE NO. 1 8 9 8 Q 7 ~ Amended
Title
✓ *Readopt remanded Ordinance No. 188142 to restrict bulk fossil fuel terminals. (Ordinance ;
,Amend Title 33, Planning and Zoning)
INTRODUCED BY CLERK USE: DATE FILED ll / (2-/ '2.JDI C,
Commissioner/Auditor :
/
I ,
Mayor Wheeler
COMMISSIONER APPROVAL -
✓
Mary Hull Caballero
Mavor-Finance & Administration - Wheel/~ Auditor of the City of Portland
Position 1/Utilities - Fritz
By ~ Position 2/Works - Fish
Deputy
Position 3/Affairs - Hardesty
Position 4/Safetv - Eudalv ACTION TAKEN:
BUREAU APPROVAL
NOV 2 4D 2019
Continued to December 18, 2019
Bureau: Planning and Sustainability at 3:00 p.m. Time Certain As Amended Bureau Head: Andrea Durbin
Prepared by: Tom Armstrong
Date Prepared: 10/29/19
Impact Statement
Completed IZI Amends Budget □
Portland Policy Document
If "Yes" requires City Policy paragraph stated
in document.
Yes D No 1:8]
City Auditor Office Approval:
required for Code Ordinances
City Attorney Approval: dlt\¥-
required for contract , code, easement ,
franchise , comp plan, charter
Council Meeting Date 11/20/19
AGENDA FOUR-FIFTHS AGENDA COMMISSIONERS VOTED
AS FOLLOWS:
TIME CERTAIN 1:8]
Start time: 2:00 p.m.
Total amount of time needed: 2 hours
YEAS NAYS
1. Fritz 1. Fritz ✓
(for presentation, testimony and discussion) 2. Fish 2. Fish
CONSENT 0 3. Hardesty 3. Hardesty ✓
REGULAR 0 4. Eudaly 4. Eudaly ✓
Total amount of time needed: -- Wheeler Wheeler v
(for presentation , testimony and discussion)
I . V

Memorandum

Date:  November 12, 2019
To:   City Council
From:  Sarah Figliozzi and Liz Hormann, PBOT

RE:    Amendment request for Council Agenda Item 1048

Amend Title 33 to update the bicycle parking regulations and amend fee
schedule for Land Use Services (Ordinance; Amend Title 33).

The following amendments include both potential Commissioner amendments and technical staff
amendments required due to oversight.

The following changes will apply to Title 33 Code language and will be presented at the Council meeting
on November 13, 2019.

Section A:  Draft Potential Commissioner Amendments
#1 – Affordable Housing exemption, supported by a separate ordinance (Eudaly)
#2 – Bicycle Parking Information in Plans
#3 – FAR exemption for bicycle room space
#4 – Prohibition of cable components in rack design
#5 – Increase of Non-Conforming Use threshold

Section B: Draft Technical Staff Amendments
#1 – Description of Standards A and B
#2 – Revise Map 266-1
#3 – Table 266-6 Clarification of Multi-Dwelling use category label
#4 – Clean up language for bicycle rack standards
#5 – Include Large Bicycle Space Figure and Insert Figure Reference
#6 – Reinstate Missing Language
#7 – Correct Figure Numbers
#8 – Accessory Surface Parking

Bicycle Parking Code Update Project - Amendment request for Council Agenda Item 1048
Section A:  Draft Potential Commissioner Amendments
Note: Bold and highlighted text denotes a change via proposed amendment.

#1 – Affordable Housing exemption, supported by a separate ordinance (Eudaly)
Amendment: Insert a new clause at 33.266.200.B.2 on page 37 of the Recommended Draft to
exempt approximately 18 affordable housing projects from revised code until June 30, 2022.
Rationale:  This amendment responds to the unique budget and timeline challenges of a select
group of affordable housing projects that developed their financing packages based on current
requirements. A separate ordinance will be introduced, in tandem with this Council package,
that will require these select projects to comply with the bicycle parking requirements currently
found in 33.266.
Staff position: Supportive.
Proposed Code:
Page 37:
Green highlighted text are changes included below in the Proposed Staff Technical amendments
Yellow highlighted text are changes included in this potential Commissioner amendment
B. Number of spaces required.
1. The required minimum number of bicycle parking spaces for each use category is
shown in Table 266-6. No bicycle parking is required for uses not listed. Minimum
bicycle parking is calculated on a geographic hierarchy based on the current and
future bicycle usage. Standard A in Table 266-6 applies to the areas shown as
Standard A on Map 266-1. Standard B in Table 266-6 applies to all other areas of
the city.
2. Until June 30, 2022, no bicycle parking is required for projects that are eligible to
use the alternative bicycle parking standards specified in Ordinance # [insert
number here]. To qualify for this exemption the applicant must provide a letter
from the Portland Housing Bureau certifying that the project is eligible to use,
and has met, the alternative bicycle parking standards specified in Ordinance #
[insert number here].
3.  The required minimum number of bicycle parking spaces is based on the primary
uses on the site. When there are two or more primary uses on a site, the required
bicycle parking for the site is the sum of the required parking for each primary use.
Bicycle Parking Code Update Project - Amendment requests
#2 – Bicycle Parking Information in Plans
Amendment: Amend 33.266.210.C.5 on page 57 of the Recommended Draft to revise the
requirement for bicycle parking information in plans to include the requirement at the land use
permit stage.
Rationale: Due to the spatial impacts of bicycle parking requirements bicycle parking layout and
locations should be reviewed at the Land Use Review permit stage.  This is particularly true if
applicants wish to request an Adjustments and/or Modification to bicycle parking
requirements, as these are processes of the Land Use Review.
Staff position: Supportive.  The removal of the requirement that bicycle parking information be
submitted at the land use permit stage was removed by PSC amendment.  Staff support early
provision of bicycle parking information to ensure compliance.
Proposed Code:
Page 57:
C. Standards for all bicycle parking.
5. Bicycle parking information in plans. The following information must be submitted
with applications for a building permit or land-use review:
a. Location, access route to long-term bicycle parking and number of bicycle
parking spaces for short-term and long-term bicycle parking requirements;
b. The model or design of the bicycle parking facilities to be installed;
c. Dimensions of all aisles and maneuvering areas; and d. If applicable,
information adequate to illustrate the racks and spaces that satisfy the
minimum horizontal requirement, and the racks and spaces that
accommodate a larger bicycle footprint.

#3 – FAR exemption for bicycle room space
Amendment: Amend 33.130.205.B on page 93 of the Recommended Draft to specify that the
FAR exemption is for the bicycle parking rooms and not individual bicycle spaces provided in a
dwelling unit.
Rationale: Recommended Draft code language could be interpreted such that FAR exemption
applies to all dedicated bicycle parking space, including those 2' x 6' spaces located in-dwelling
unit. This is not advised due to the labor required to calculate this level of detail.
Bicycle Parking Code Update Project - Amendment request for Council Agenda Item 1048
Proposed Code:
Page 93:
33.130 Commercial/Mixed Use Zones
33.130.205 Floor Area Ratio
B. FAR standard. The maximum floor area ratios are stated in Table 130-2 and apply to all uses
and developments. Additional floor area may be allowed through bonus options, as
described in Section 33.130.212, or transferred from historic resources per Subsection C.
Except in the CR zone, floor area for structured parking and required long-term bicycle
parking not located in a dwelling unit, up to a maximum FAR of 0.5 to 1, is not calculated
as part of the FAR for the site. Adjustments to the maximum floor area ratios are
prohibited.

#4 – Prohibition of cable components in rack design
Amendment: Amend 33.266.210.C.2 on page 47 of the Recommended Draft to ensure that
approved racks do not include cable components which are easily defeated by thieves.
Rationale:  The code’s bicycle rack requirement is intended to ensure that the bicycle rack
shape is designed such that a user can secure their bicycle and one wheel to the bike rack using
a u-shaped shackle lock.  Some inexpensive wall hook racks rely on an attached cable that the
user can use to attach the U-lock to the bicycle, wheel, and the metal rack. However, these
cables are extremely easy for thieves to cut.
Staff position: Supportive.
Proposed Code:
Page 47:
Green highlighted text are changes included below in the Proposed Staff Technical amendments
Yellow highlighted text are changes included in this potential Commissioner amendment
33.266.210.C. Standards for all bicycle parking.  The Bureau of Transportation maintains a
bicycle parking handbook that includes information on rack standards, siting guidelines and
other standards of this code chapter. Long-term and short-term bicycle parking must be
provided in lockers or racks that meet the following standards:
1.  Bicycle parking area standards. The area devoted to bicycle parking must be hard
surfaced.
Bicycle Parking Code Update Project - Amendment requests
2.  Bicycle racks. Where bicycle parking is provided in racks, the racks must meet the
following standards:
a.  The rack must be designed so that the bicycle frame and one wheel can be locked to a
rigid portion of the rack with a U-shaped shackle lock, when both wheels are left on
the bicycle;
b.  If the rack is a horizontal rack, it must support the bicycle at two points, including the
frame; and
c.  The rack must be securely anchored with tamper-resistant hardware.

#5 – Increase of Non-Conforming Use threshold
Amendment:  Increase the threshold to trigger improvements to non-conforming development
from current level of $168,550 to $300,000. Value will continue to increase by the Construction
Cost index each subsequent year.
Rationale:  The increase in dollar amount allows a greater number of smaller alterations to be
reviewed without triggering requests for additional information about site features that may
not currently match code minimums including bike parking. These requests can often delay the
processing of the permits and can add costs to small scale alterations. The dollar increase can
improve efficiency in permit processing, while still ensuring that larger alterations bring their
non-conforming development up to code.
Staff position:  Supportive.
Proposed Code:
Green highlighted text are changes included below in the Proposed Staff Technical amendments
Yellow highlighted text are changes included in this potential Commissioner amendment
33.258.070 Nonconforming Development
A.-C. [No change]
D.     Development that must be brought into conformance. The regulations of this
subsection are divided into two types of situations, depending upon whether the use is
also nonconforming or not. These regulations apply except where superseded by more
specific regulations in the code.
1. [no change]
a. [no change]
b. [no change]
Bicycle Parking Code Update Project - Amendment request for Council Agenda Item 1048
c. Bicycle parking by upgrading existing bicycle parking and providing additional
spaces in order to comply with 33.266.2200 and 33.266.210;
2.     Nonconforming development with an existing nonconforming use, allowed use,
limited use, or conditional use. Nonconforming development associated with an
existing nonconforming use, an allowed use, a limited use, or a conditional use,
must meet the requirements stated below. When alterations are made that are
over the threshold of Subparagraph D.2.a., the site must be brought into
conformance with the development standards listed in Subparagraph D.2.b. The
value of the alterations is based on the entire project, not individual building
permits.
a.     Thresholds triggering compliance. The standards of Subparagraph D.2.b.,
below, must be met when the value of the proposed alterations on the site, as
determined by BDS, is more than $168,550$300,000. The following alterations
and improvements do not count toward the threshold:
(1)-(9)  [No change]
b.     Standards which must be met. Development not complying with the
development standards listed below must be brought into conformance or
receive an adjustment.
(1)    [no change]
(2)    [no change]
(3)    Bicycle parking by upgrading existing racks and providing additional
spaces in order to comply with 33.266.2200, Bicycle Parking as follows:
• Major remodeling projects must meet the standards for all bicycle
parking;
• Sites with accessory surface parking must meet the standards for
all bicycle parking;
• In all other situations, the amounts and standards Sites that do
not have accessory surface parking or are inside the Central City
Core Area or Lloyd District, as shown on Map 510-8, are not
required to meet this standard for long-term bicycle parking, but
are required to meet this standard for short-term bicycle parking
must be met.
c.      [No change]
d.     Timing and cost of required improvements. The applicant may choose one of
the following options for making the required improvements:
(1) [No change]
(2) Option 2. Under Option 2, the required improvements may be made over
several years, based on the compliance period identified in Table 258-1.
Bicycle Parking Code Update Project - Amendment requests
However, by the end of the compliance period, the site must be brought
fully into compliance with the standards listed in Subparagraph D.2.b.
When this option is chosen, the following applies:
• Before a building permit is issued, the applicant must submit the
following to BDS:
− Application. An application, including a Nonconforming
Development Assessment, which identifies in writing and on a site
plan, all development that does not meet the standards listed in
subparagraph D.2.b.
− Covenant. The City-approved covenant, which is available in the
Development Services Center, is required. The covenant identifies
development on the site that does not meet the standards listed
in subparagraph D.2.b, and requires the owner to bring that
development fully into compliance with this Title. The covenant
also specifies the date by which the owner will bring the
nonconforming development into full compliance. The date must
be within the compliance periods set out in Table 258-1. The
covenant must be recorded as specified in Subsection
33.700.060.B.
• The nonconforming development identified in the Nonconforming
Development Assessment must be brought into full conformance
with the requirements of this Title that are in effect on the date when
the permit application is submitted. The compliance period begins
when a building permit is issued for alterations to the site of more
than $168,550$300,000. The compliance periods are based on the
size of the site. The compliance periods are identified in Table 258-1.
• By the end of the compliance period, the applicant or owner must
request that the site be certified by BDS as in compliance with the
standards listed in Subparagraph D.2.b. on the date when the permit
application was submitted. A permit documenting full conformance
with these standards is required and must receive final inspection
approval prior to BDS certification.
• If certification is requested by the end of the compliance period and
BDS certifies the site as in compliance, a two-year grace period
begins. The grace period begins at the end of the compliance period,
even if BDS certifies the site before the end of the compliance period.
During the grace period, no upgrades to nonconforming development
are required.
• If certification is not requested, or if the site is not fully in
conformance by the end of the compliance period, no additional
building permits will be issued until the site is certified.
• If the regulations referred to by Subparagraph D.2.b, or in D.2.b itself,
are amended after the Nonconforming Development Assessment is
Bicycle Parking Code Update Project - Amendment request for Council Agenda Item 1048
received by BDS, and those amendments result in development on
the site that was not addressed by the Assessment becoming
nonconforming, the applicant must, at the end of the grace period,
address the new nonconforming development using Option 1 or
Option 2. If the applicant chooses Option 2, a separate
Nonconforming Development Assessment, covenant, and compliance
period will be required for the new nonconforming development.
E.-G. [No change]

33.440 Greenway Overlay Zones
33.440.230 Landscaping
A.-C. [No change]
D. Exception for sites with an existing nonconforming use, allowed use, limited use, or
conditional use. The regulations of this subsection apply to sites with an existing
nonconforming use, an allowed use, a limited use, or a conditional use. When
alterations are made to a site that does not meet the standards of this section, and the
alterations are over the threshold of Paragraph D.1, below, the site must be brought
into conformance with the development standards listed in Subsections A, B, and C,
above. The value of the alterations is based on the entire project, not individual
building permits. The cost of the upgrades required by this chapter may be counted
toward the cost of upgrades required by Subsection 33.258.070.D. However, the
upgrades required by this chapter must be completed first.
1. Thresholds triggering compliance. The standards of Subsections A, B, and C must
be met when the value of the proposed alterations on the site, as determined by
BDS, is more than $168,550$300,000. Alterations and improvements stated in
33.258.070.D.2.a do not count toward the threshold.
2.-3. [No change]

33.510 Central City Plan Districts
33.510.253 Greenway Overlay Zone in South Waterfront Subdistrict
A.-C. [No change]
D. Required South Waterfront Greenway improvements. Adjustments and modifications
to this subsection are prohibited.
1. Required landscaping.
a. When development on the site, or alterations to structures, the site, or rights-
of-way are made, and BDS determines that the value of the proposed
alterations on the site is more than $168,550$300,000, the site must be
brought into conformance with the landscape requirements of Paragraph
Bicycle Parking Code Update Project - Amendment requests
E.5.f. that apply to subareas 2 and 3 of the South Waterfront Greenway Area.
The value of the alterations is based on the entire project, not individual
building permits. It is the responsibility of the applicant to document the value
of the required improvements.
 The following alterations and improvements do not count toward the dollar
threshold of this subsection:
(1)-(5)  [No change]
b.-c. [No change]
2.-5. [No change]
E.-F. [No change]

33.515 Columbia South Shore Plan District
33.515.278 Development Standards
A. [No change]
B. Land uses, land divisions, and activities within an environmental zone must meet the
following standards:
1.-16. [No change]
17. Nonconforming situations
a. Required improvements.
(1) Paved areas in Environmental Overlay Zones. When the value of
proposed alterations on the site, as determined by BDS, is more than
$168,550$300,000, paved areas that do not meet plan district regulations
must be removed from environmental zoned areas. The value of the
alterations is based on the entire project, not individual building permits.
(2)-(3)  [No change]
b.-d. [No change]
18. [No change]
Bicycle Parking Code Update Project - Amendment request for Council Agenda Item 1048
Section B:  Draft Technical Staff Amendments
Note: Bold and highlighted text denotes a change via proposed amendment.
#1 – Description of Standards A and B
Amendment: Amend 33.266.200.B on page 37 of the Recommended Draft to correct the
description of Standard A and B.
Rationale:  Code describes geographic areas included in Standards A and B.  This information is
not necessary per code and has the potential to become outdated if future code projects make
minor modification pattern area boundaries.
Proposed Code:
Yellow highlighted text are changes proposed as part of the Staff Technical amendments
Green highlighted text are changes included as a potential Commissioner amendment above.
Page 37:
B. Number of spaces required.
1. The required minimum number of bicycle parking spaces for each use category is
shown in Table 266-6. No bicycle parking is required for uses not listed. Minimum
bicycle parking is calculated on a geographic hierarchy based on the current and
future bicycle usage. Standard A in Table 266-6 applies to the areas shown as
Standard A on Map 266-1. Standard B in Table 266-6 applies to all other areas of
the city.
2. Until June 30, 2022, no bicycle parking is required for projects that are eligible to
use the alternative bicycle parking standards specified in Ordinance # [insert
number here]. To qualify for this exemption the applicant must provide a letter
from the Portland Housing Bureau certifying that the project is eligible to use,
and has met, the alternative bicycle parking standards specified in Ordinance #
[insert number here].
3.  The required minimum number of bicycle parking spaces is based on the primary
uses on the site. When there are two or more primary uses on a site, the required
bicycle parking for the site is the sum of the required parking for each primary use.
Bicycle Parking Code Update Project - Amendment requests
#2 – Revise Map 266-1
Amendment: Swap out Map 266-1 on page 39 of the Recommended Draft with revised map.
Rationale:  Map 266-1 shows the Bicycle Parking Standard Areas which are based on Pattern
Areas. The new map reflects refinements to the Pattern Areas that were made as part of the
Better Housing by Design code project.
Proposed Code:
Page 39 - Revised map 266-1.

Bicycle Parking Code Update Project - Amendment request for Council Agenda Item 1048
#3 – Table 266-6 Clarification of Multi-Dwelling use category label
Amendment: Clarify Multi-Dwelling use category label in Table 266-6 on page 41 of the
Recommended Draft so it reads “5 or more units”.
Rationale: A change in wording is necessary to avoid confusion with existing zoning code
definitions for multi-dwelling development.
Proposed Code:
Pg 41:

Pg 43:

Pg 45:

Bicycle Parking Code Update Project - Amendment requests

#4 – Clean up language for bicycle rack standards
Amendment: Amend 33.266.210.C.2 on page 47 of the Recommended Draft to correct
sentence structure.
Rationale: Code language will be cleaner with these changes.
Proposed Code:
Page 47:
Green highlighted text are changes included above as a potential Commissioner amendment
Yellow highlighted text are changes included in this Proposed Staff Technical amendment
33.266.210.C. Standards for all bicycle parking.  The Bureau of Transportation maintains a
bicycle parking handbook that includes information on rack standards, siting guidelines and
other standards of this code chapter. Long-term and short-term bicycle parking must be
provided in lockers or racks that meet the following standards:
1.  Bicycle parking area standards. The area devoted to bicycle parking must be hard
surfaced.
Bicycle Parking Code Update Project - Amendment request for Council Agenda Item 1048
2.  Bicycle racks. Where bicycle parking is provided in racks, the racks must meet the
following standards:
a.  The rack must be designed so that the bicycle frame and one wheel can be locked to a
rigid portion of the rack with a U-shaped shackle lock, when both wheels are left on
the bicycle;
b.  If the rack is a horizontal rack, it must support the bicycle at two points, including the
frame; and
c.  The rack must be securely anchored with tamper-resistant hardware.

#5 – Include Large Bicycle Space Figure and Insert Figure Reference
Amendment: Include a missing Figure 266-14 on page 55 of the Recommended Draft to
illustrate large footprint bicycle space as a new Figure 266-14. Also include reference to this
figure under the requirement for parking for larger bicycle spaces (33.266.210.D.3b) on page 71
of the Recommended Draft.
Rationale:  The figure was inadvertently left out of the Proposed Draft.
Proposed Code:
Page 55:

Page 71:
Yellow highlighted text are changes proposed as part of this amendment.
Green highlighted text are changes included as separate proposed technical amendments.
33.266.210.D. Standards for long-term bicycle parking
3.  Additional Development Standards. The following standards apply to sites where with
more than 20 long-term bicycle parking spaces:
Figure 266-14
Large Bicycle Space
Bicycle Parking Code Update Project - Amendment requests
b. Parking for larger bicycle space. At least 5 percent of spaces must accommodate a
larger bicycle space, placed in a horizontal rack. These spaces may be included to meet
the requirement for Subparagraph D.3.a. See Figure 266-14
#6 – Reinstate Missing Language
Amendment: Amend 33.266.210.D.3 on page 71 of the Recommended Draft to replace the
word “where” with “with”.
Rationale: Words were inadvertently removed during Draft editing however they are required
to for code implementation.
Proposed Code:
Page 71:
Yellow highlighted text are changes proposed as part of this amendment.
Green highlighted text are changes included as separate proposed technical amendments.
33.266.210.D. Standards for long-term bicycle parking
3.  Additional Development Standards. The following standards apply to sites where with
more than 20 long-term bicycle parking spaces:
a.  Minimum number of horizontal bicycle parking spaces. At least 30 percent of spaces
must be in a horizontal rack, or on the lower level of a stacked bicycle parking rack.
For Schools (K-8), all spaces located outside of the building must be in a horizontal
rack.
b.  Parking for larger bicycle space. At least 5 percent of spaces must accommodate a
larger bicycle space, placed in a horizontal rack. These spaces may be included to meet
the requirement for Subparagraph D.3.a. See Figure 266-14
c.  Electrical outlet requirement. At least 5 percent of spaces must have electrical sockets
accessible to the spaces. Each electrical socket must be accessible to horizontal bicycle
parking spaces.

#7 – Correct Figure Numbers
Amendment:  Amend 33.266.210.E.1.a(3) on page 73 of the Recommended Draft to reflect
correct figure numbers and remove unnecessary parentheses.
Rationale:  Figure numbers need to be amended to reflect inclusion of the Figure 266-14 Large
Bicycle Space (above).
Bicycle Parking Code Update Project - Amendment request for Council Agenda Item 1048
Proposed Code:
Page 73:
E.  Standards for Short-term Bicycle Parking.
1. Development Standards. Short-term bicycle parking must meet the following
standards:
a. Location Standards. Short-term bicycle parking must meet the following location
standards:
(1) On-site, outside a building;
(2) At the same grade as the sidewalk or at a location that can be reached by an
accessible route; and
(3) Within the following distances of the main entrance:
• Building with one main entrance. For a building with one main entrance, the
bicycle parking must be within 50 feet of the main entrance to the building as
measured along the most direct pedestrian access route. (See Figure 266-154)
• Building with more than one main entrance. For a building with more than
one main entrance, the bicycle parking must be along all façades with a main
entrance, and within 50 feet of at least one main entrance on each façade
that has a main entrance, as measured along the most direct pedestrian
access route. (See Figure 266-165)
• Sites with more than one primary building. For sites that have more than one
primary building, but are not an institutional campus, the bicycle parking must
be within 50 feet of a main entrance as measured along the most direct
pedestrian access route, and must be distributed to serve all primary buildings
(See Figure 266-176);
• Institutional Campus. On an institutional campus with more than one building
or main entrance, the bicycle parking must be either:
- Within 50 feet of a main entrance as measured along the most direct
pedestrian access route; or
- If the short-term bicycle parking is more than 50 feet from a main
entrance, it must be in a common bicycle parking location along a
pedestrian access route.

Bicycle Parking Code Update Project - Amendment requests
#8 – Accessory Surface Parking
Amendment:  Amend 33.258.070.D.2.b.(3) on page 99 of the Recommended Draft to reinstate
the word “accessory” in front of surface parking.
Rationale:  The correct term is “accessory surface parking”. This correction will assist with code
implementation.
Proposed Code:
Page 99:
Green highlighted text are changes included above as a potential Commissioner amendment
Yellow highlighted text are changes included in this Proposed Staff Technical amendment
33.258.070 Nonconforming Development
A.-C.  [No change]
D.     Development that must be brought into conformance. The regulations of this
subsection are divided into two types of situations, depending upon whether the use is
also nonconforming or not. These regulations apply except where superseded by more
specific regulations in the code.
1. [no change]
a. [no change]
b. [no change]
c. Bicycle parking by upgrading existing bicycle parking and providing additional
spaces in order to comply with 33.266.2200 and 33.266.210;
2.     Nonconforming development with an existing nonconforming use, allowed use,
limited use, or conditional use. Nonconforming development associated with an
existing nonconforming use, an allowed use, a limited use, or a conditional use,
must meet the requirements stated below. When alterations are made that are
over the threshold of Subparagraph D.2.a., the site must be brought into
conformance with the development standards listed in Subparagraph D.2.b. The
value of the alterations is based on the entire project, not individual building
permits.
a.     Thresholds triggering compliance. The standards of Subparagraph D.2.b.,
below, must be met when the value of the proposed alterations on the site, as
determined by BDS, is more than $168,550$300,000. The following alterations
and improvements do not count toward the threshold:
(1)-(9)  [No change]
Bicycle Parking Code Update Project - Amendment request for Council Agenda Item 1048
b.     Standards which must be met. Development not complying with the
development standards listed below must be brought into conformance or
receive an adjustment.
(1)    [no change]
(2)    [no change]
(3)    Bicycle parking by upgrading existing racks and providing additional
spaces in order to comply with 33.266.2200, Bicycle Parking as follows:
• Major remodeling projects must meet the standards for all bicycle
parking;
• Sites with accessory surface parking must meet the standards for
all bicycle parking;
• In all other situations, the amounts and standards Sites that do
not have accessory surface parking or are inside the Central City
Core Area or Lloyd District, as shown on Map 510-8, are not
required to meet this standard for long-term bicycle parking, but
are required to meet this standard for short-term bicycle parking
must be met.

Page 2                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        May 2019

The Bicycle Parking Code Update Project is updating Portland’s Zoning Code
to ensure new development and major redevelopment provide adequate,
secure and convenient short- and long-term bicycle parking.

For more information:

Visit the project website: https://www.portlandoregon.gov/transportation/70439
Email the project team: bicyclecodeupdate@portlandoregon.gov

The City of Portland complies with all non-discrimination, Civil Rights laws
including Civil Rights Title VI and ADA Title II. To help ensure equal access to
City programs, services and activities, the City of Portland will reasonably
modify policies/ procedures and provide auxiliary aids/ services to persons
with disabilities. Call 503-823-5185, TTY 503-823-6868 or Oregon Relay
Service: 711 with such requests, or visit http://bit.ly/13EWaCg

May 2019     Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft Page 3
How to Testify
The Bicycle Parking Code Recommended Draft will be considered by the City Council. The public is invited to
submit formal comments (called public testimony) to Council in writing, in person at a public hearing, or
online via the Map App. Testimony on the Recommended Draft is directed to City Council, which may
amend the proposal and subsequently vote to adopt the changes to implement the project.
Testify in person at the City Council public
hearing
Testify in writing between now and Wednesday,
November 13, 2019
Wednesday, November 13, 2019, at 2 p.m.
Portland City Council Chambers
1221 SW 4th Ave
Portland, OR 97204
To confirm the date, time and location, check the
City Council calendar at:
http://www.portlandoregon.gov/auditor/26997
Map App: www.portlandoregon.gov/bps/mapapp
Select Bicycle Parking Code Update Project and click on
the “Testify” button. You can testify about specific
proposals or the proposals in general. Testifying in the
Map App is as easy as sending an email. Once your
testimony is submitted, you can read it in real time.
US Mail:
You must provide your full name and mailing address.
Portland City Council
c/o Bureau of Planning and Sustainability
Atten: Bicycle Parking Testimony
1900 SW 4th Ave, Suite 7100
Portland, OR 97201
City Council Public Hearings
November 13, 2019
Page 4   Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft   May 2019
Acknowledgments
Portland City Council
Ted Wheeler, Mayor, Commissioner-in-charge
Chloe Eudaly, Commissioner
Nick Fish, Commissioner
Amanda Fritz, Commissioner
Jo Ann Hardesty, Commissioner
Portland Planning and Sustainability Commission (March 2019)
Katherine Schultz (Chair); Eli Spevak (Vice Chair); Chris Smith (Vice Chair); Jeff Bachrach; André Baugh,
Ben Bortolazzo; Mike Houck; Katie Larsell; Daisy Quiñonez; Teresa St. Martin
Bureau of Planning and Sustainability
Andrea Durbin, Director
Project Staff and Contributors – Bureau of Planning and Sustainability
Eric Engstrom, Principal Planner
Phil Nameny, Planner II
Tyler Bump, Senior Economic Planner
Sara Wright, Planner II
Krista Gust, Graphic Design
Project Staff and Contributors – Portland Bureau of Transportation
Sarah Figliozzi, Program Coordinator
Liz Hormann, TDM II Specialist
Roger Geller, Bicycle Coordinator
Mauricio Leclerc, Supervising Transportation Planner
Project Staff and Contributors – Bureau of Development Services
Jeff Mitchem, Planner II – Design & Historic Resources
Grace Jeffreys, Planner II – Design & Historic Resources
Breah Pike-Salas, Planner II – Land Use Services Planning & Zoning
April 19, 2019
Mayor Ted Wheeler and Members of Portland City Council
Portland City Hall
1221 SW Fourth Avenue
Portland, OR 97204
Dear Mayor Wheeler and City Commissioners,
The Planning and Sustainability Commission (PSC) is pleased to forward our recommendations on the
Bicycle Parking Code Update Project. The proposal builds on existing code requirements to ensure that
Portlanders have access to adequate, secure, and convenient bicycle parking at their homes and
destinations.
On January 22, 2019, the PSC held a hearing on the staff proposal and heard testimony from members
of the public, including developers, tenants of affordable housing and many others. We followed this
meeting with a discussion of PSC suggestions at a work session on February 12 and February 26, 2019.
The PSC voted 8-1 to recommend the staff proposal with noted amendments.
The City of Portland has strong policy direction to reduce congestion, increase the percentage of trips
made by bicycle, and meet climate change goals. Ensuring people have a place to safely and securely
park a bicycle at the end of their trips is one of the City’s tools to continue to support and encourage
bicycling as a mode of transportation.
In general, the PSC expressed support for the regulations. Amendments include:
• Exempting sites with fewer than five dwelling units from the requir
ement.
• Establishin
g standards for required bicycle parking provided within dwelling units.
• Allowing 50 percent of required bike parking to be provided in-unit. For sites with 12 units or
fewer units, allowing up to 100 percent of required bicycle parking to be located in-unit.
Concerns wer
e raised that requiring private development to build more bike parking, in the absence of a
plan to build more public secure bike parking, would do little to increase the commuter mode split for
bikes. Moreover, one commissioner thought requiring new development to build bike parking at a level
that far exceeds current demand imposes an unfair portion of the cost and regulatory burden on the
private sector to promote more bike commuting.
The PSC’s overall support for these regulations recognizes that requirements for new development will
provide a near-term and long-term benefit for bicycling in Portland.
Other Issues
The PSC believes that these zoning changes must be supported by other work to support safe,
convenient, accessible bicycle parking in Portland. To this end, we suggest:
• PBOT should work towards finding ways (including incentives) to address bicycle parking
deficie
ncies in existing buildings.
• PBOT staff sh
ould work with Parks and Recreation staff to develop recommended minimum
standards and adjustment evaluation criteria for bicycle parking in Parks and Open Areas.
• The Bi
cycle Parking Handbook that staff are developing should include consideration of the need
for larger bicycle parking spaces at retai
l establishments and for monitoring bicycle parking with
security cameras.
Recommendati
on
The PSC recommends that the City Council take the following actions:
1. Adopt the Bicycle Parking Code Update – Recommended Draft.
2. Amend
 the Zoning Code (Title 33) as shown in the Recommended Draft.
Thank
 you for the opportunity to participate in the review of this project and for considering our
recommendations.
Sincerely,
Katherine Schultz
Chair
May 2019     Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft Page 7
Table of Contents
Section I. Introduction……………………………………………………………………………………………………………….… 9
Section II. Relationship to the Comprehensive Plan………………………………………………….....………………11
Section III. Public Involvement………………………………………………......………………..……………………………… 16
Section IV. Proposal and Analysis………………………………………………......………………..…………………………. 22
Section V. Zoning Code Amendments………………………………………………......………………..………………….. 35
33.266 Parking, Loading, and Transportation and Parking Demand Management…….… 36
33.120 Multi-Dwelling Zones…………………………………………………......………………..……………. 90
33.130 Commercial/Mixed Use Zones…………………………………......………………………........… 92
33.229 Elderly and Disabled High Density Housing……………………………………………………… 96
33.258 Nonconforming Development…………………………………......………………….....……….… 98
33.266 Parking, Loading, And Transportation and Parking Demand Management……  100
33.281 Schools and School Sites ……………………………………………………………………..…………102
33.510 Central City Plan District…………………………………......……………………..............……..104
33.555 Marquam Hill Plan District .................................................................................. 110
33.815 Conditional Uses ……………………………………………………………………………………….…. 112
Page 8   Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft   May 2019
This page is intentionally left blank

May 2019     Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft Page 9

Section I: Introduction

Project Summary
City goals and policies support a vision of Portland as a vibrant city where most people have the option to
use active transportation like walking, bicycling and transit to get around and meet their basic needs.

In addition to this overarching active transportation vision, Portland has a goal that 25 percent of all trips
are made using a bicycle by 2030. The Bureau of Transportation is working to build the connected safe
network of bicycle infrastructure that will support this goal. However, we will not be able to reach this goal
without making sure people have a place to safely and securely park a bicycle at the end of their trips.

The City of Portland’s Zoning Code requires the inclusion of long- and short-term bicycle parking in new
development and some redevelopment projects. The current text of the bicycle parking section of City
Code was largely written and adopted in 1996. While there was an update in 2004 to address short-term
bicycle parking needs, the majority of the bicycle parking section has largely remained dormant for 20
years. Meanwhile, the bicycle commute mode split in Portland has increased from 1.2 percent in 1996 to
just over 7 percent in 2014.

As the City prepares for significant growth over the next 20 years, this code update is one of the City’s
tools to support and encourage bicycling as a convenient and affordable mode of transportation for a
growing sector of Portland’s population.

Framing the Work
Guiding City Policy
Several City policy and planning documents provide the framework that guides the bicycle parking
requirements:

2035 Comprehensive Plan
The 2035 Comprehensive Plan guides long-range land use and transportation planning. The plan focuses
on improving Portland as a place that is walkable, bikeable and transit-friendly, and it includes a specific
policy goal of providing sufficient, usable bicycle parking throughout the city.

2015 Climate Action Plan
In 1993, Portland was the first city in the United States to create a local action plan for cutting carbon
emissions. The updated Climate Action Plan, created in 2015, outlines the specific actions the City and
Multnomah County will take to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, including:
• Reduce daily per capita vehicle miles traveled by 30 percent from 2008 levels by 2030.
• Create vibrant neighborhoods where 80 percent of residents can easily walk or bicycle to meet all basic
daily, non-work needs and have safe pedestrian or bicycle access to transit by 2030.

City-Adopted Mode Split Goals
Mode split is the percentage of travelers using a particular type of transportation. For this project, the City
of Portland’s bicycle mode split goals were used to guide the updated methodology for the required
amounts of bicycle parking:
• Portland Bicycle Plan for 2030 – 25% bicycle mode split for all trips by 2030
• Transportation System Plan – 25% bicycle mode split for commute trips by 2035

Page 10                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        May 2019

Why is Bicycle Parking Important?
Portland is a growing city with strong climate and transportation goals. Currently, nearly 45 percent of
all trips made by car in the Portland region are less than 3 miles.1 To meet City goals, these shorter trips
need to increasingly be made on foot and by bike instead of by car. This will free up capacity for longer
trips, such as freight and longer-distance commuting trips, that need to be made by vehicles.

Riding a bicycle is an important low-cost transportation option. Transportation is the second-highest
household cost, after housing. For many households, the option of biking and walking for a portion of
their daily trips can lower cost of living by potentially reducing the number of vehicles their household
owns and reducing the amount of money needed for fuel and maintenance.

In their 2012 report, Barriers to Cycling, the Community Cycling Center found that the lack of a safe and
secure place to park a bicycle is a key barrier for bicycling as transportation or recreation. For example,
an audit conducted by the Community Cycling Center and property managers with Hacienda
Community Development Corporation elevated the lack of safe and secure bicycle parking as a top
priority. The audit found that over a two-year period, 85 bicycles had been stolen from residents, which
was nearly one bicycle per household. After the audit, Hacienda CDC provided secure bicycle parking in
existing buildings and began including lockable bike storage into the design of new buildings owned by
the affordable housing organization.

For all these reasons, Portland has adopted policies that require bicycle parking in private development,
and the Bicycle Parking Code Update project is revising them to support current and future
transportation goals.

Major Proposed Changes
This project focused on ensuring that new development and major redevelopment provides secure and
convenient short- and long-term bicycle parking. The proposals include the following amendments:
• Update the minimum required amounts of short- and long-term bicycle parking.
• Expand the use of geographic tiers to all Use Categories, creating two different rates of required
bicycle parking based on geography.
• Enhance security standards to help prevent bike theft.
• Expand options for space-saving rack configurations.
• Accommodate a variety of types of bicycles and people of all abilities.
• Require that a percentage of long-term bicycle parking in residential buildings be located in bike
rooms rather than in residential units.

1 2011 Oregon Household Activity Survey. Vehicle trips by length for trips wholly within Clackamas, Multnomah,
Washington and Clark Counties.

May 2019     Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft Page 11

Section II: Relationship to Comprehensive Plan
Comprehensive Plan Guiding Principles
The Bicycle Parking Code Update Project helps implement the guiding principles of the City of Portland’s
2035 Comprehensive Plan in the following ways.

Economic Prosperity. Support a low-carbon economy and foster employment growth, competitiveness, and
equitably-distributed household prosperity.

This project advances this principle by supporting low-cost, low-carbon transportation options for all
Portlanders. Transportation is the second highest-household cost, and owning a car can cost a family
approximately $8,500 a year.2 These standards support low-cost, active transportation options, which
can provide tangible economic benefits to individuals and households across Portland.

Human Health. Avoid or minimize negative health impacts and improve opportunities for Portlanders to
lead healthy, active lives.

This project advances this principle by supporting the use of bicycles as a form of transportation and
recreation. Regular physical activity, including the use of active transportation, helps improve overall
health and fitness and reduces risk for many chronic diseases. This project helps facilitate active
mobility by providing safe and secure places to park and store a bicycle.

Environmental Health. Weave nature into the city and foster a healthy environment that sustains people,
neighborhoods, and fish and wildlife. Recognize the intrinsic value of nature and sustain the ecosystem
services of Portland’s air, water, and land.

This project advances this principle by increasing the supply of bicycle parking, which supports
bicycling, a low-carbon transportation option. Climate change threatens not just Oregon’s natural
treasures, but also Portlanders' jobs and health. Nearly 40 percent of all local carbon emissions come
from transportation sources. Utilizing active transportation is one of the key strategies to reduce
carbon emissions from the transportation sector.

Equity. Promote equity and environmental justice by reducing disparities, minimizing burdens, extending
community benefits, increasing the amount of affordable housing, affirmatively furthering fair housing,
proactively fighting displacement, and improving socio-economic opportunities for underserved and
underrepresented populations. Intentionally engage underserved and underrepresented populations in
decisions that affect them. Specifically recognize, address, and prevent repetition of the injustices suffered
by communities of color throughout Portland’s history.

This project advances this principle by establishing standards for bicycle parking that consider the
needs of people with different abilities and by supporting the ease and convenience of low-cost
transportation. Additionally, the standards were developed based on considerable feedback and
engagement with a wide variety of stakeholders, including residents of affordable housing
developments, affordable housing developers and the Portland Housing Bureau. The project worked to

2 AAA, “True Cost of Vehicle Ownership,” https://newsroom.aaa.com/tag/cost-to-own-a-vehicle/, 2017.

Page 12                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        May 2019

balance the City goals of providing more affordable housing and supporting affordable, environmentally
friendly transportation options.

Resilience. Reduce risk and improve the ability of individuals, communities, economic systems, and the
natural and built environments to withstand, recover from, and adapt to changes from natural hazards,
human-made disasters, climate change, and economic shifts.

This project advances this principle in that the promotion of bicycling supports compact development
at the neighborhood level and the use of low-carbon transportation options. End-of-trip facilities to
support bicycling is one important element of developing a low-carbon, resilient infrastructure system
for Portland.

Goals and Policies
The 2035 Comprehensive Plan includes goals and policy language designed to support and further the
guiding principles. The Bicycle Parking Code Update Project primarily supports Chapter 9:
Transportation. However, the project also supports the closely-linked goals and policies around
development, urban form and the environment, which span the following chapters of the
Comprehensive Plan: Chapter 3, Urban Form; Chapter 4, Design and Development; Chapter 5, Housing;
Chapter 6, Economic Development; Chapter 7, Environment and Watershed Health; and Chapter 10,
Land Use Designations and Zoning.

Key Comprehensive Plan goals and policies supported by the Bicycle Parking Code project are listed
below.

Urban Form
Goal 3.A A city designed for people. Portland’s built environment is designed to serve the needs and
aspirations of all Portlanders, promoting prosperity, health, equity, and resiliency. New development,
redevelopment, and public investments reduce disparities and encourage social interaction to create a
healthy connected city.
Goal 3.B A climate and hazard resilient urban form. Portland’s compact urban form, sustainable
building development practices, green infrastructure, and active transportation system reduce carbon
emissions, reduce natural hazard risks and impacts, and improve resilience to the effects of climate
change.
Policy 3.1 Urban Design Framework. Use the Urban Design Framework (UDF) as a guide to create
inclusive and enduring places, while providing flexibility for implementation at the local scale to
meet the needs of local communities.
Policy 3.4 All ages and abilities. Strive for a built environment that provides a safe, healthful, and
attractive environment for people of all ages and abilities.
Policy 3.5 Energy and resource efficiency. Support energy-efficient, resource-efficient, and
sustainable development and transportation patterns through land use and transportation planning.

May 2019     Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft Page 13

Design and Development
Goal 4.A Context‐sensitive design and development. New development is designed to respond to and
enhance the distinctive physical, historic, and cultural qualities of its location, while accommodating
growth and change.
Goal 4.C Human and environmental health. Neighborhoods and development are efficiently designed and
built to enhance human and environmental health: they protect safety and livability; support local access
to healthy food; limit negative impacts on water, hydrology, and air quality; reduce carbon emissions;
encourage active and sustainable design; protect wildlife; address urban heat islands; and integrate nature
and the built environment.
Policy 4.1 Pattern areas. Encourage building and site designs that respect the unique built natural,
historic, and cultural characteristics of Portland’s five pattern areas described in Chapter 3: Urban
Form.
Policy 4.10 Design for active living. Encourage development and building and site design that promotes
a healthy level of physical activity in daily life.
Housing
Policy 5.36 Impact of regulations on affordability. Evaluate how existing and new regulations affect
private development of affordable housing and minimize negative impacts where possible. Avoid
regulations that facilitate economically-exclusive neighborhoods.
Economic Development
Goal 6.B Development - Portland supports an attractive environment for industrial, commercial, and
institutional job growth and development by 1) maintaining an adequate land supply; 2) a local
development review system that is nimble, predictable, and fair; and 3) high-quality public facilities and
services.
Policy 6.28 Poverty reduction. Encourage investment in, and alignment of, poverty-reduction efforts
that address economic development, land use, transportation, housing, social services, public health,
community development, and workforce development.
Environment and Watershed Health
Goal 7.A Climate. Carbon emissions are reduced to 50 percent below 1990 levels by 2035.
Transportation
Goal 9.E Equitable transportation. The transportation system provides all Portlanders options to move
about the city and meet their daily needs by using a variety of safe, efficient, convenient, and affordable
modes of transportation. Transportation investments are responsive to the distinct needs of each
community.
Policy 9.3 Transportation System Plan. Maintain and implement the Transportation System Plan (TSP)
as the decision‐making tool for transportation related projects, policies, programs, and street design.

Page 14                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        May 2019

Policy 9.5 Mode share goals and Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) reduction. Increase the share of
trips made using active and low-carbon transportation modes. Reduce VMT to achieve targets set in
the most current Climate Action Plan and Transportation System Plan and meet or exceed Metro’s
mode share and VMT targets.
Policy 9.8 Affordability. Improve and maintain the transportation system to increase access to
convenient and affordable transportation options for all Portlanders, especially those who have
traditionally been underserved or underrepresented or have historically borne unequal burdens.
Policy 9.9 Accessible and age-friendly transportation system. Ensure that transportation facilities
are accessible to people of all ages and abilities, and that all improvements to the transportation
system (traffic, transit, bicycle, and pedestrian) in the public right-of-way comply with the American
with Disabilities Act of 1990. Improve and adapt the transportation system to better meet the needs
of the most vulnerable users, including the young, older adults, and people with different abilities.
Policy 9.10 Geographic policies. Adopt geographically-specific policies in the Transportation System
Plan to ensure that transportation infrastructure reflects the unique topography, historic character,
natural features, system gaps, economic needs, demographics, and land uses of each area. Use the
Pattern Areas identified in Chapter 3: Urban Form as the basis for area policies.
Policy 9.20 Bicycle transportation. Create conditions that make bicycling more attractive than
driving for most trips of approximately three miles or less.
Policy 9.21 Accessible bicycle system. Create a bicycle transportation system that is safe,
comfortable, and accessible to people of all ages and abilities.
Policy 9.55 Parking management. Reduce parking demand and manage supply to improve
pedestrian, bicycle and transit mode share, neighborhood livability, safety, business district vitality,
vehicle miles traveled (VMT) reduction, and air quality. Implement strategies that reduce demand
for new parking and private vehicle ownership, and that help maintain optimal parking occupancy
and availability.
Policy 9.61 Bicycle parking. Promote the development of new bicycle parking facilities including
dedicated bike parking in the public right-of-way. Provide sufficient bicycle parking at high-capacity
transit stations to enhance bicycle connection opportunities. Require provision of adequate off-
street bicycle parking for new development and redevelopment. Encourage the provision of parking
for different types of bicycles. In establishing the standards for long-term bicycle parking, consider
the needs of persons with different levels of ability.
Policy 9.63 New development impacts. Prevent, reduce, and mitigate the impacts of new
development and redevelopment on the transportation system. Utilize strategies including
transportation and parking demand management, transportation system analysis, and system and
local impact mitigation improvements and fees.

May 2019     Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft Page 15

Land Use Designations and Zoning
Policy 10.4 Amending the Zoning Code. Amendments to the zoning regulations must be done
legislatively and should be clear, concise, and applicable to a broad range of development situations
faced by a growing city. Amendments should:
10.4.a. Promote good planning:
1. Effectively and efficiently implement the Comprehensive Plan.
2. Address existing and potential land use problems.
3. Balance the benefits of regulations against the costs of implementation and compliance.
4. Maintain Portland’s competitiveness with other jurisdictions as location in which to live, invest,
and do business.

10.4.b. Ensure good administration of land use regulations:
1. Keep regulations as simple as possible.
2. Use clear and objective standards wherever possible.
3. Maintain consistent procedures and limit their number.
4. Establish specific approval criteria for land use reviews.
5. Establish application requirements that are as reasonable as possible, and ensure they are
directly tied to approval.
6. Emphasize administrative procedures for land use reviews while ensuring appropriate
community engagement in discretionary decisions.
7. Avoid overlapping reviews.

10.4.c. Strive to improve the code document:
1. Use clear language.
2. Maintain a clear and logical organization.
3. Use a format and layout that enables use of the document by lay people as well as
professionals.
4. Use tables and drawings to clarify and shorten the document.
5. Identify and act on regulatory improvement suggestions.

Page 16                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        May 2019

Section III: Public Involvement
Development of the Bicycle Parking Code Update Project concepts and the resulting Zoning Code
amendments were informed by a range of public involvement activities.

Stakeholder Advisory Committee
To facilitate a conversation among various interested parties, PBOT convened a Stakeholder Advisory
Committee (hereafter referred to as Committee) to advise on the preliminary phase of the update to
the bicycle parking chapter. The Committee met seven times from February 2016 to October 2017.

The Committee was composed of technical experts from City bureaus, community members and
business representatives. The Committee was an advisory body providing direction and
recommendations to the PBOT Director. The culmination of the Committee’s work was formalized in a
Recommendation Report and presented to the Portland Planning and Sustainability Commission in
November 2017.

The purpose of the Committee was to provide early input to PBOT in developing the general concepts
of the code amendments. Then PBOT staff worked closely with the Bureau of Planning and
Sustainability (BPS) and the Bureau of Development Services (BDS) staff to develop the actual code
amendments in this document.

Stakeholder Advisory Committee’s Guiding Principles
The following guiding principles were developed and adopted by the Committee to provide the
overarching direction for the package of recommendations for updating the bicycle parking chapter.

Principle A – Adequate Amount of Bicycle Parking
The amount of bicycle parking is adequate to accommodate future increases in demand, specifically the
City’s 25 percent bicycle mode split goal for all trips.

Principle B – Prioritizing Bicycle Parking
Bicycle parking is intentionally planned, with consideration for location and within the design of the
building. Bicycle parking is available via a direct and accessible route.

Principle C – Accessible and Convenient Bicycle Parking
Bicycle parking accommodates users of all ages and abilities as well as a variety of different types of
bicycles.

Principle D – Bicycle Parking is Secure and Safe to Use
Design provides sufficient security provisions to prevent bike theft and promotes safe spaces for users
(e.g., lighting, visibility and location).

Principle E – Bicycle Parking is Feasible
Requirements allow for innovation and adaptability in design, while being straightforward to
implement. Requirements consider project feasibility and cost implications.

May 2019     Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft Page 17

Online Open House
Prior to wrapping up the Stakeholder Advisory Committee’s Recommendation Report, PBOT conducted an
Online Open House to gather feedback on the entire package of recommendations coming from the
Stakeholder Advisory Committee. The Online Open House provided an early opportunity for public
feedback on the early code concepts.

The following general themes emerged from the feedback received in the Online Open House:
• General agreement on all the recommendations.
• Very strong support for the requirements to accommodate different types of bikes (i.e., cargo bikes,
bikes with trailers, and electric bikes).
• Strong support for increasing the proportion of racks that are usable for people of different abilities.

This public input informed the development of the conceptual themes for the Bicycle Parking Code Update
Project.

Apartment Community Survey
In March 2017, staff conducted an online survey to gather input from people who live in apartment
buildings and own bicycles. This user survey asked a range of questions about the major challenges of
parking a bicycle at the building and the user’s preference for where to park their bicycle. The survey
garnered 323 total responses. Out of the 323 responses, 260 came from people who live in apartments.
The remaining responses came from people who do not currently live in apartments but had general
comments about bicycle parking needs and standards.

The summary of the survey results can be read in the appendices of the Stakeholder Advisory Committee
Recommendation Report. Key takeaways include:
• The majority (67 percent) of respondents who live in apartments and own a bicycle preferred to park
their bicycle in a secure room dedicated to bicycle parking.
• Respondents identified the following as the most challenging part of parking a bicycle at their
apartment (also see Figure 1):
o I’m concerned about the safety/ security of my bicycle in the bike room;
o There are no bike parking facilities at my building; and
o Parking a wet, muddy bike in my unit is causing damage.

It is important to note that the responses came almost exclusively from people who live in market-rate
apartment buildings. To broaden the scope of the survey, PBOT staff worked with Portland Housing Bureau
(PHB) staff to target the community survey to affordable housing tenants, property managers and
developers.

The responses from tenants of affordable housing showed that they prioritized the same top three barriers
to parking their bicycles at their homes as the general population did (above).

While the response rates were lower, staff were able to gather some important feedback via the survey,
and the exercise led to more in-depth conversations with affordable housing providers about bicycle
parking.

Page 18                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        May 2019

PBOT staff heard the following key points from affordable housing developers:
• Developing on small sites makes accommodating all development requirements, including bicycle
parking, very difficult.
• Usage of bicycle parking at some sites, particularly those serving elderly and disabled populations
and very low-income residents, is very low.
• It is important for the standards to be flexible.

Site Visits, Interviews and Case Studies
Throughout 2017 and 2018, PBOT staff conducted site visits to apartment and office buildings to tour
bicycle parking facilities and interview property managers and developers about bicycle parking
opportunities and challenges. Site visits are useful to assess various bicycle parking configurations in
action, assess the usage rates of bicycle parking facilities, and see what is working and what is not
working for bicycle parking at specific buildings and project types.

PBOT staff also worked with affordable housing developers and architects to visit a few sites, including
the NAYA Generations Apartments, Miracles Central Apartments and Hacienda CDC properties.

Details on some of the site visits can be found in Appendix F in the Stakeholder Advisory Committee’s
Recommendation Report, and an additional overview of site visits are included in Appendix C of this
Recommended Draft.
Figure 1 – Results from Community Survey (general survey) – What are your biggest challenges to bicycle parking?
The bike room is too full
18%
There are no bike
parking facilities at my
building
21%
I'm concerned about the
safety/ security of my bicycle
in the bike room
27%
My bike does not fit in any of
the designated bicycle parking
spaces or on any of the racks
3%
It is difficult to get my
bicycle on the elevator
6%
The bicycle rack in my
unit is not usable or is in
an inconvenient location
6%
Parking a wet, muddy bike
in my unit is causing
damage
17%
My building manager
does not allow me to
store my bike in my
room and/or balcony
2%
BIGGEST CHALLENGES TO
BICYCLE PARKING

May 2019     Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft Page 19

Discussion Draft Public Input
The Discussion Draft, published on August 14, 2018, served as the first opportunity for the public to review
and comment on the draft Zoning Code regulations. Prior to that date, the public had opportunities to
review and respond to the concepts that guided the Zoning Code regulations.

The public review period of the Discussion Draft was from August 14 through October 1, 2018. During this
period, staff used a variety of approaches for community members to learn about the Discussion Draft
proposals and provide comments, including:
• A news blog post emailed to project list and hosted on project website.
• Posts on social media, including Facebook and Twitter.
• Articles in local newspapers, online newspapers and local blog platforms.
• Presentations and discussions at 16 meetings of community organizations.
• An online survey.
• A Bicycle Parking Wonk Night with BikePortland.org.
• Several additional in-person or phone meetings with developers, architects and interested parties.

Several recurring themes emerged in the comments received, including:
• Usability of bicycle parking for all people and all types of bicycles
• Housing affordability and bicycle parking in affordable housing
• Importance of end-of-trip facilities
• Security and bicycle theft concerns
• Concerns around allowing in-unit bicycle parking, while others expressed that in-unit bicycle
parking should still be an option
• Flexibility in implementation
• Letting the market forces drive the provision of bicycle parking

See Appendix A for a compilation of comments on the Discussion Draft.

Proposed Draft – Changes from the Discussion Draft
Based on public comments, input from City bureaus and additional analysis, staff incorporated refinements
to the proposals as part of the Proposed Draft. These include:
1. Self-Service storage amounts. In Table 266-6, add a Use Category under Commercial Categories for
Self-Service Storage and add amounts for required long- and short-term bicycle parking.
2. Affordable housing in-unit standards. Develop an in-unit standard for affordable housing projects
that balances the need for deeply affordable units and convenient and accessible long-term bicycle
parking.
3. Long-term security. Create separate long-term security standards for residential and non-
residential uses, acknowledging the differences in how bicycle parking is used. For non-residential
uses, the lockable room does not have to be designated for bicycle parking. Therefore, bicycle
parking spaces could be co-located with staff work areas on upper floors or in the back-office area
of a small retail establishment.
4. Accessible route. Remove the reference to accessible access route for long-term bicycle parking
because ADA standards capture access to bicycle parking rooms, but add standards for access to in-
unit bicycle parking for buildings that do not have elevators.

Page 20                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        May 2019

5. Long-term location – personal garage. Clarify that long-term bicycle parking can be in a
personal, structured parking space and this does not count as being in a residential dwelling
unit.
6. Long-term location – underground, structured parking. Remove the standard that if long-term
bicycle parking is located in underground, structured parking areas then it must be located on
the level closest to the ground floor of the building. Therefore, long-term bicycle parking can be
at any level of the parking garage, as long as there is elevator access.
7. E-bike charging outlets. Remove the requirement for outlets to charge e-bikes because of the
logistical plan review issues of checking outlets during Planning and Zoning review. However, a
future electrification project will look at requiring charging for e-bikes and electric vehicles.
8. Short-term Bicycle Parking Fund. Remove the all-or-nothing aspect of the Short-term Bicycle
Parking Fund to allow partial fulfillment of the short-term requirement on-site with the
remainder paid into the Fund.
9. Long-term bicycle parking for schools (K-12). Given the different needs of long-term bicycle
parking at schools for students and for staff, the proposal exempts and creates specific long-
term bicycle parking requirements for schools to address location, security, weather-protection
and horizontal racks.

Planning and Sustainability Commission Hearing and Development of the
Recommended Draft
The Planning and Sustainability Commission accepted testimony on the Proposed Draft December 12,
2018 through January 25, 2019. Seventy-two unique pieces of testimony were submitted: 52 in written
form and 20 in verbal form at the January 22, 2019 hearing. Testimony covered many issues including
the need for more bicycle parking in new buildings, whether long-term bicycle parking should be
located in residential dwelling units, the need for additional bicycle parking at schools, and concerns
about impacts on small development sites.

In response to testimony, and guided by City goals and policies, the Planning and Sustainability
Commission adopted several amendments, including, but not limited to, the following:
1. Residential unit threshold. Add a note in Table 266-6 that multi-dwelling sites are defined as
sites with 5 or more units and thus short-term and long-term bicycle parking are not required
for projects with 4 or fewer units.
2. Increase in-unit threshold to 50 percent. Allow up to 50 percent of required long-term bicycle
parking spaces to be provided in the residential unit.
3. Small-site exception to in-unit requirements. For sites with up to 12 units, 100 percent of long-
term bicycle parking can be provided in dwelling units.
4. Removal of in-unit exceptions for affordable housing developments. The Planning and
Sustainability Commission made changes to the in-unit exceptions for all development (#2 and
#3 above) that duplicated previous exceptions for affordable housing developments, so those
exceptions are removed.
5. Addition of design standards for in-unit bicycle parking. Add language that says in-unit bicycle
parking must be provided in a dedicated enclosed space and near the front door.
6. Bike valet. Include language in both the Marquam Hill Plan District chapter (33.555) and the
South Waterfront Subdistrict section (33.510.251) to allow existing, uncovered OHSU bike valet
to count towards future code requirements.

May 2019     Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft Page 21

7. South Waterfront standards. Remove the requirement that development must build 110
percent of the required long-term bicycle parking requirement in South Waterfront subdistrict.
8. Geographic tiers. Add Swan Island to the Standard A geographic tier
9. Wholesale Sales amounts. Add Wholesale Sales to Table 266-6 under Industrial Categories and
add requirements for both short-term and long-term bicycle parking.
10. Parks and Open Areas. Remove a baseline bicycle parking requirement and replace with “per
Conditional Use Review” in Table 266-6. To support this, PBOT and Parks and Recreation staff are
directed to develop recommended minimum standards for bicycle parking provision for Parks and
Open Areas uses.
11. Long-term bicycle parking for schools (K-12). In Table 266-6, increase the amounts of required
long-term bicycle parking for Schools (K-12) based on revised target mode split goals. Also, revise
requirement so that horizontal racks are only required for elementary (K-5) and middle (6-8)
Schools.
12. E-bikes. Require electrical sockets for 5 percent of required long-term bicycle parking spaces, and
that the sockets are accessible to horizontal racks.

Page 22                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        May 2019

Section IV: Proposal and Analysis

This section summarizes the major Zoning Code changes proposed by the Bicycle Parking Code Update
Project. This section briefly describes each proposal and provides an explanation of the problems and
policy issues the proposal is intended to address. This section also provides background on some of the
changes between the earlier drafts and the Recommended Draft. The proposals are organized based on
the Guiding Principles of the Stakeholder Advisory Committee.

Adequate Amount of Bicycle Parking to accommodate future increases in demand,
specifically the City’s 25 percent bicycle mode split goal for all trips.

Proposals:
1. Adopt two geographic tiers for minimum bicycle parking amounts to be applied to all Use
Categories.
2. Calculate amounts of long- and short-term bicycle parking based on data points, including trip
generation rates, employees per square footage, and visitation rates.

Issues Addressed:

The majority of Table 266-6, which sets the minimum required bicycle parking amounts for all Use
Categories, has not been updated since 1996. Therefore, a major section of the code update project is
focused on updating the amounts of required long-term and short-term bicycle parking to better reflect
current and goal bicycle mode splits.

Proposal Approach:

1. A Tiered Approach to Bicycle Parking
Although the City of Portland has a citywide goal of 25 percent of people using a bicycle for all trips,
mode splits are different throughout the city.

It is important to note, that during much of the time that staff was working with the Stakeholder
Advisory Committee on updating the bicycle parking chapter, the TSP Proposed Draft Stage Three
included a 15 percent commute mode split goal. However, while the Stakeholder Committee was in its
final stage of finalizing their recommendations, with the release of the TSP Proposed Draft in August
2017, this mode split goal was changed to 25 percent. Staff, with support of the Stakeholder
Committee, continued with the 15 percent target citywide commute mode split for the long-term
bicycle parking methodology and calculation. The following points helped influence that decision:

• A 15 percent commute mode split is still moving the dial forward on increasing the total amount of
bicycle parking.
• Staff and the Stakeholder Committee spent considerable time coming to group consensus on the
formula and are comfortable with the amounts of bicycle parking produced by a 15 percent target.
• The 15 percent target represents an incremental step, moving toward the 25 percent commute
mode split goal by 2035.
• Zoning Code is intended to represent a “minimum” requirement. Some developers will do more,
but the focus is on what is needed as a baseline for current development

May 2019     Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft Page 23

Under the current Zoning Code, multi-dwelling developments have two different bicycle parking minimum
requirements: one for the Central City and one for the rest of the city. The proposal would expand the
higher minimums outside the Central City. This proposal also expands the use of tiered standards to all of
the Use Categories in Table 266-6, in addition to multi-dwelling development.

The tiers are based on the Pattern Areas in the 2035 Comprehensive System Plan and the Transportation
System Plan (TSP):
1. Rivers
2. Central City
3. Inner Neighborhoods
4. Western Neighborhoods
5. Eastern Neighborhoods

Staff also considered the four identified Bicycle Districts in the TSP, which are areas with a dense
concentration of commercial, cultural, institutional and/or recreational destinations where the City intends
to make bicycle travel more attractive than driving. The Gateway Bicycle District is the only Bicycle District
outside of the Central City or the Inner Neighborhood Pattern Areas. As such, it is recommended for
inclusion in Standard A as described below. Additionally, the Planning and Sustainability Commission,
through the amendment process, added Swan Island to the Standard A geographic tier because the area is
an employment center and relatively easy to access by bicycle.

The following two tiers are proposed to be applied to all Use Categories in Table 266-6 for the required
amounts of both long-term and short-term bicycle parking:
Standard A – Central City, Inner Neighborhoods,
Gateway Plan District, Swan Island
Standard B – Western Neighborhoods, Eastern
Neighborhoods, and Rivers

The tiered approach accounts for the differences in
bike use and thus bike parking demand in Portland.
It parallels the tiered approach in the TSP to set
target mode share rates for the different pattern
areas.

The public expressed some concern in comments on
the Bicycle Parking Online Open House and during
discussions at the Planning and Sustainability
Commission that a lower bicycle parking
requirement in the outer neighborhoods (Standard
B) supports the perception that these
neighborhoods are often overlooked for investment
in bicycle infrastructure. It is important to note that
PBOT is committed to improving and expanding
bicycle infrastructure everywhere in the City, and
lower bicycle parking rates do not reflect a lower
level of commitment.

Figure 2 – Pattern Area Map.
Standard A – Central City, Inner Neighborhoods, Gateway Plan District, and
Swan Island
Standard B – Western Neighborhoods, Eastern Neighborhoods and Rivers

Page 24                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        May 2019

The proposals in the Bicycle Parking Code Update Project increase the required minimum bicycle
parking spaces in both Standard A and Standard B from the ratios in current code. The Standard B
amounts are based on a target of 15 percent bicycle mode split for all trips and 10 percent for commute
trips. For context, the current bicycle commute mode split in the Eastern Neighborhoods is under 4
percent. After further planned public investment and monitoring, these standards could be
recommended to be modified in the future.

2. Minimum Required Amount Calculations

The required numbers of bicycle parking spaces were calculated using data points such as the average
square footage per employee (or employee density), visitation rates from Transportation System
Development Charges, and target bicycle mode split to build out the methodology for updating the
amounts. The two tables below offer examples on how long-term and short-term bicycle parking
amount standards were developed for Office Use:
How to calculate amount of required long-term bicycle parking (for Table 266-6) for Office Use:
Assumptions:
- Employee density of 350 sq. ft. per employee*
- Commute mode split Standard A = 20%
- Commute mode split Standard B = 10%

Standard A = 1,000 sq. ft. ÷ 350 x 20% = .57 spaces per 1,000 sq. ft.
      = 1,000 sq. ft. ÷ .57 = 1 long-term space per 1,754 sq. ft. rounded to 1,800 sq. ft.

Standard B = 1,000 sq. ft. ÷ 350 x 10% = .29 spaces per 1,000 sq. ft.
      = 1,000 sq. ft. ÷ .29 = 1 long-term space per 3,440 sq. ft. rounded to 3,500 sq. ft.

*Note: Employee density from City of Portland Bureau of Planning and Sustainability: Economic
Opportunities Analysis – Sections 2/3 Supply & Demand, Figure 35, Square Feet per Employee, p 46.
How to calculate amount of required short-term bicycle parking (for Table 266-6) for Office Use:
Assumptions:
- TSDC* rate = 1 person trip per 1,000 sq. ft. per PM peak
-              20% visitor rate
- Mode Split Standard A = 25%
- Mode Split Standard B = 15%

Standard A = 1 x 20% x 25% = .05 spaces per 1,000 sq. ft.
      = 1,000 sq. ft. ÷ .05 = 1 long-term space per 20,000 sq. ft.

Standard B = 1 x 20% x 15% = .03 spaces per 1,000 sq. ft.
      = 1,000 sq. ft. ÷ .03 = 1 long-term space per 33,333 sq. ft. rounded to 33,000 sq. ft.

* TSDC - Transportation System Development Charge

May 2019     Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft Page 25

Finally, staff compared the amounts of required bicycle parking produced by the formulas to requirements
from comparable cities and to what the development market in Portland is already producing for bicycle
parking. For example, in the Office Use example, Portland is seeing a number of developers in the
“Standard A” areas building to a higher bicycle parking standard of 1 space per 1,000 square feet to
accommodate demand. See Appendix D for more information about how the proposed amounts compare
to other cities and existing Portland development.

Page 26                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        May 2019

The Planning and Sustainability Commission, through the amendment process, made the following
changes to the minimum required amounts:
• Added a Use Category of Wholesale Sales under Industrial Categories and required both long-
and short-term bicycle parking.
• Removed the proposed baseline bicycle parking requirements of short-term bicycle parking for
Parks and Open Areas and replaced with “per Conditional Use Review,” which is what is
required in current code.
• Increased the amount of required long-term bicycle parking for Schools (K-12). The Planning
and Sustainability Commission felt that the Proposed Draft target mode splits for schools were
too low. Their amendments used a higher target mode split, increasing 15 percent to 25
percent in Standard A and from 10 percent to 20 percent in Standard B.
In addition, there was considerable discussion about the amount required for Office Uses. A member of
the Planning and Sustainability Commission proposed an amendment to lower the amount required for
Office Uses, but ultimately the Commission voted to not change the amount of bicycle parking
required.

Prioritizing Bicycle Parking to be intentionally planned, with consideration for location and
within the design of the building. Bicycle parking is available via a direct and accessible route.

Proposals:
3. Specify options for location of long-term bicycle parking.
4. Develop standards for bicycle parking in dwelling units.
5. In mixed-use developments, ensure all building tenants have access to long-term bicycle parking.
6. Require applicants to provide sufficient bicycle rack detail in submitted plans.

Issues Addressed:

During the code concept phase, the following key priorities were identified for required long-term
bicycle parking:
• Easy to find
• Access without stairs
• Direct access (preferably direct entry from the street if possible)
• Prominent location

These proposals are focused on location and accessibility of long-term bicycle parking. In some cases,
the City has seen bicycle parking added at the very end of a project, without much consideration to
how people will find or access these spaces, and as a result bicycle parking racks are hidden in back
corners of buildings or parking garages. The proposed updates to the bicycle parking chapter aim to
provide more clarity for bicycle parking in new or redeveloped buildings.

May 2019     Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft Page 27

Proposal Approach:

3. Options for long-term bicycle parking location

The proposal lists location options for where long-term bicycle parking may be provided. Required long-
term bicycle parking may be provided in one or more of the following locations:
• Within the building, including on the ground floor or on individual building floors;
• On-site, including in parking areas;
• In an area offsite where the closest point is within 300 feet of the site; or
• In a residential unit. The requirements for parking in residential units are addressed below.

4. Standards for bicycle parking in dwelling units

One of the more debated elements to the Bicycle Parking Code Update is the topic of whether required
long-term bicycle parking can use space within residential units of multi-dwelling projects. Under current
code, 100 percent of the required long-term bicycle parking spaces could be provided within units.

Throughout the code update project process, PBOT staff have heard from stakeholders about the issues
with bicycle parking in residential dwelling units, including, but not limited to:
• Bicycle racks being placed in unusable locations in the unit, including tucked into far corners of
bedrooms.
• Bicycle racks being removed and not returned when new tenants move in, thus reducing the overall
capacity of bicycle parking in the building.
• Damage deposits being lost when wet, muddy bikes are parked within units.
• A strong user preference to park their bikes in a bicycle parking room (from the Apartment
Community Survey, 2017).
• A preference among property managers for bicycle rooms to reduce the damage caused by bicycle
parking in dwelling units.

PBOT staff conducted site visits at apartments around the city. While there were examples of effective in-
unit bicycle parking, there were many more examples where a hook was placed in the residential unit in a
way that made it hard to use, such as in the
bedroom right next to or over the bed. In other
cases, the bicycle rack, or multiple racks, were
placed a significant distance from the front
door, requiring the user to roll the bicycle to the
opposite end of the unit. In many cases the bike
parking rooms were at or over capacity with
parked bicycles. These site visits focused only on
buildings permitted after 2010, when the 1.5-
and 1.1-spaces-per-unit requirement went into
effect.

Figure 3 – Results from Apartment Community Survey – Where do people prefer
to park their bicycle?
In a secure
bike room
67%
In my unit
20%
Other
13%
PREFERENCE ON PARKING LOCATION

Page 28                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        May 2019

Most other cities do not allow bicycle parking spaces in an apartment unit or on a balcony to count
toward the required long-term bicycle parking.

Given all the factors above, staff originally proposed to allow 0 percent of required long-term bicycle
parking to be provided within a residential unit. However, during the code development process, staff
heard clearly from developers that requiring all bicycle parking to be outside of the dwelling units has
an impact on how space is used in the building, which impacts development costs. As such, during the
during the Discussion and Proposed Draft phases, the proposed in-unit allowance was increased to 20
percent.

During the Discussion Draft outreach period, staff also had ongoing conversations with affordable
housing developers and the Portland Housing Bureau (PHB). Having secure and reliable bicycle parking
is important, and supporting use of low-cost
transportation is particularly important for
residents of affordable housing. However,
these groups expressed concern about the
impact of removing the current code’s
allowance of 100 percent long-term parking
to be placed in-unit on the feasibility of
affordable housing projects.

Recognizing the unique challenges of getting
affordable housing projects on the ground
and the City of Portland’s clear goal of
improving housing affordability, especially for
people living on very low incomes, staff
worked closely with PHB to address the
specific concerns of affordable housing
developers and advocates by developing two
exemptions to the in-unit allowance for the
Proposed Draft.

The two affordable housing exemptions in the Proposed Draft were:
(1) For projects with at least 50 percent of all dwelling units on the site affordable at no more than
60 percent area median income, up to 50 percent of required long-term bicycle parking spaces
may be provided in dwelling units.

(2) For projects with under 10 dwelling units, where at least 50 percent of the dwelling units are
affordable to those earning no more than 100 percent of the area median income, then up to
100 percent of required long-term bicycle parking spaces may be provided in dwelling units.

However, during the Planning and Sustainability Commission deliberation, commissioners heard
additional testimony about the challenges for tenants and that the proposed exemptions affordable
housing created an inequity for tenants.

Figure 4 – Example of an in-unit rack placed right next to the bed.

May 2019     Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft Page 29

This testimony led to a series of Planning and Sustainability Commission amendments:
A) The removal of the two in-unit exceptions for affordable housing from the Proposed Draft.
B) An allowance of 100 percent of long-term bicycle parking to be placed in dwelling units for sites
with up to 12 units. This exemption will apply to all development (both market-rate and affordable
housing projects).
C) An increase from 20 percent to 50 percent of required long-term bicycle parking to be allowed
within residential dwelling units, as long as additional standards are met:
• The bicycle parking space is located in a closet or alcove and located within 15 feet of the
entrance to the dwelling unit.
• Racks provided in-unit would not need to be as substantial as previously required (for
example, a bicycle hook would be acceptable).
• The five-foot maneuvering space must still be provided.
• The in-unit bicycle parking must be on the ground floor or on floors served by an elevator.

5. Access for all building tenants in mixed-use buildings

An issue elevated during the code concept development was ensuring that all tenants, especially in mixed-
use developments, can access the building's long-term bicycle parking spaces.

The proposal states that developments with multiple primary uses must provide access to bicycle parking
for all tenants. For example, in a mixed-use building, spaces dedicated to long-term bicycle parking must
be accessible for retail/commercial tenants and employees, as well as residential tenants. The bicycle
parking can be provided in a common space with restricted access or in multiple separate location, but all
tenants must have access to at least the amount of long-term bicycle parking that is required for the
appropriate Use Category.

6. Provide sufficient bicycle rack detail in submitted plans

The code does not currently require specifications about the bicycle parking racks in submitted plans.
Although the Bureau of Development Services (BDS) staff typically require this information in land use
review or building permit applications, codifying the requirement helps to ensure consistent review of
required bicycle parking.

The proposed approach is similar to Joint Use Parking (33.266.110) and Environmental Zones (33.430.130)
requirements for submittal of necessary documentation as part of the permit process.

Accessible and Convenient Bicycle Parking that accommodates users of all ages and abilities as
well as a variety of different types of bicycles.

Proposals:
7. Require a minimum percentage of long-term bicycle parking to be provided in horizontal racks.
8. Provide a few bicycle parking spaces for larger bikes, like recumbents or bikes with trailers.
9. Ensure that double-decker bicycle racks include a lift-assisted mechanism to access the upper tier.
10. Provide a few electrical sockets in a bicycle room for charging e-bikes.

Page 30                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        May 2019

Issues Addressed:

The 2035 Comprehensive Plan calls for long-term bicycle parking standards that consider the needs of
persons with different levels of ability. Further, the PBOT Apartment Community Survey identified that
27 percent of the respondents reported owning some type of non-standard bike, such as an e-bike or
cargo bike. The proposals in this category aim to increase the availability of racks for non-standard
bicycles as well as ensure that a proportion of bicycle spaces can accommodate different levels of
ability by reducing the need to lift bicycles.

To reduce the burden of these additional long-term bicycle parking requirements on small
developments, the following proposals are only triggered when a development is required to have
more than 20 long-term bicycle parking spaces.

Proposal Approach:

7. Minimum percentage of horizontal racks

When the current code language was developed over 20 years ago, the assumption was that all bicycle
parking would be provided in ground-mounted, horizontal racks. However, advances in rack design now
allow for the use of wall-mounted vertical racks and double-decker racks. While these racks provide
space-efficient bicycle parking, they create usability issues for people who are not able to lift their bikes
onto a wall-mounted rack or for people with bikes that do not fit vertically, due to length, fender
placement, etc.

To provide bicycle parking spaces that do not require the lifting of a bicycle, a minimum of 30% percent
of required spaces must be in a horizontal rack or on the lower level of a stacked rack. This will ensure
the provision of racks that can be used by people of all abilities, while still maintaining the flexibility for
developers to use space-efficient options in constrained building space.

8. Provide spaces for large bicycles including cargo bikes and bikes with trailers

The current code requirements do not accommodate different types of bicycles that have become
much more common over the past few years, including cargo bikes, bikes with trailers, and tricycles. As
Portland continues to work towards its bicycle mode split goal, it is important to support all people who
ride, which means bicycle parking for a variety of types of bicycles. The proposal requires a minimum of
5 percent of required bicycle parking spaces with a larger footprint of 3 feet by 10 feet, which must be
provided in a horizontal rack.

9. Double-decker racks are required to have a lift-assist mechanism

Double-decker, stacked bicycle racks are a space-saving option that provides two levels of bicycle
parking. However, they must be convenient and usable in order to meet Portland’s bicycle parking
goals. Parking a bicycle on the top rack of a double-decker rack would mean lifting a bike approximately
4 to 5 feet off the ground. This was not deemed usable by staff or the Stakeholder Advisory Committee.
Therefore, the code proposal includes a requirement that double-decker bicycle racks have a lift-assist
mechanism to aid the user in parking their bicycle on the upper rack. The lift assist eliminates the need
to fully lift a bicycle.

May 2019     Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft Page 31

10. Provide spaces for e-bikes

E-bikes are increasingly popular nationally and in Portland. Electric and electric-assist bikes have the
capacity to reduce barriers to riding a bicycle, including trip distance, topography, time and physical
exertion.

The proposal requires that at least 5 percent of required spaces must have a power socket accessible to
the horizontal bicycle parking space

This requirement was removed for the Proposed Draft due to the logistical concerns related to reviewing
electrical requirements during Planning and Zoning review. The Planning and Sustainability Commission
reinstated this requirement.
Figure 5 – Dimensions of different types of bicycles. Credit: San
Francisco Zoning Administrator Bulletin No. 9.

Page 32                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        May 2019

Bicycle Parking is Secure and Safe to Use where design provides sufficient security
provisions to prevent bicycle theft and promotes safe spaces for users.

Proposals:
11. Streamline and strengthen the security requirements for long-term bicycle parking to help prevent
bicycle theft.
12. Enhance personal safety by requiring lighting for long-term bicycle parking.
13. Require 100 percent of long-term bicycle parking to be covered to provide weather protection.

Issues Addressed:

Security was very important for the Stakeholder Advisory Committee and for the people who provided
input in early public engagement activities. In Portland, nearly 3,000 bikes are reported stolen to the
police each year, and this represents just a fraction of the actual number of bikes that are stolen and
not reported.

Proposal Approach:

11. Streamline security requirements for long-term bicycle parking

BDS staff report that most projects satisfy the security requirement for long-term bicycle parking by
placing racks in a locked room or enclosure (a secure bike room or in units). However, some projects
have satisfied the security requirement by less secure options, including solely relying on video
surveillance. BDS staff prefer to streamline and simplify this security section by providing fewer options
to meet the code.

Online Open House respondents provided strong feedback that a camera should also be required as an
additional element of bicycle parking security. This camera requirement was not included in the final
proposal because cameras can break or be removed after the building is built, and thus are not as
effective as a permanent measure.

This proposal removes a number of the standalone security options and instead provides three options
for long-term bicycle parking security:
1) A lockable room or enclosure, with restricted access and designated for bicycle parking;
2) A bicycle locker; or
3) Placement in a residential unit, per the standards for in-unit bicycle parking.

The proposal also develops different security standards for residential uses and non-residential uses.
This is because long-term bicycle parking is sometimes used more for storage purposes at residential
buildings, as opposed to an office building.

May 2019     Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft Page 33

12. Lighting requirements

Adequate lighting helps ensure personal safety for people using bicycle parking areas. Since short-term
bicycle parking is located near the main entrance of buildings, staff assume that area would already
include lighting. However, for long-term bicycle parking that could be placed in a basement or in an
underground parking area, lighting is an important security component.

The proposal for lighting is based on existing standards in Title 33 under pedestrian standards for
commercial/ mixed use zones (33.130.205) and multi-dwelling zones (33.120.210).

13. Weather Protection

The current code only requires 50 percent of the required long-term bicycle parking spaces to be covered.
However, staff and the Stakeholder Advisory Committee felt very strongly that 100 percent of long-term
bicycle parking should be covered and include weather protection.

The proposal also more clearly defines weather protection, including stipulating the dimensions of a cover
and how far the cover must extend beyond the bicycle footprint.

Bicycle Parking is Feasible and requirements allow for innovation and adaptability in design, while
being straightforward to implement; additionally, requirements consider project feasibility and cost
implications.

Proposals:
14. Increase options for space saving racks in code.
15. Streamline spacing requirements for horizontal and diagonal racks to match the right-of-way
standards.
16. Exempt bike room space from Floor Area Ratios.

Issues Addressed:

During the code concept development phase and the work with the Stakeholder Advisory Committee,
there was agreement that it was important to support and improve project feasibility. The current code
makes it difficult for development projects to use space-saving racks like vertical wall racks and double-
decker stacked racks.

Proposal Approach:

14. Increase options for space-saving racks in code

The current bicycle parking code only addresses standards for horizontal, floor-mounted rack placement
and spacing. However, many rack designs allow closer spacing between bikes, with a vertical stagger that
provides enough space to avoid handlebar and pedal conflicts. Narrower spacing makes it easier to provide
more bicycle parking in a smaller area.

Page 34                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        May 2019

BDS and PBOT are already allowing these “space-saving” racks through the modification and
adjustment process, but codifying the standards streamlines the development process.

The proposals address spacing standards for vertical wall racks and double-decker stacked racks, both
of which are common rack designs.

15. Streamline spacing standards for horizontal racks

The proposal also includes spacing standards for horizontal and diagonal racks that match the
requirements in PBOT’s bike parking in the right-of-way guidelines. These proposals allow for additional
flexibility in rack configuration, while still maintaining usability of the racks.

16. Exempt bike room space for FAR

The Commercial/Mixed Use Chapter (33.130) includes a FAR (Floor Area Ratio) exemption for
structured parking up to a maximum FAR of 0.5 to 1. The Better Housing by Design Project is proposing
to extend the FAR exemption for structured parking to multi-dwelling zones. The Bicycle Parking Code
Update proposes a FAR exemption at a similar rate for long-term bicycle parking.

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 35

Section V: Zoning Code Amendments

This section presents staff-proposed Zoning Code amendments. The section is formatted to facilitate
readability by showing draft code amendments on the right-hand pages and related commentary on the
facing left-hand pages. Proposed new code is shown as underlined and current code proposed for deletion is
shown with a strikethrough.

Note: Sections of the existing code have been substantially rewritten, and the order of the current code
sections have been moved around for the proposed Zoning Code amendments. Therefore, the majority of
the new code is underlined. The commentary identifies where the code language has mostly stayed the
same, but because of the reorganization and re-numbering of the sections, the language is underlined.

Commentary on draft Chapter 33.266.200 code amendments is in summary form. For more detail on the
concepts, research and background related to the draft code amendments, see the Bicycle Parking Code
Update Project website.

This project deals primarily with Chapter 33.266.200, but there are some proposed changes to additional
sections of Title 33:
 33.120 Multi-Dwelling Zones
 33.130 Commercial/ Mixed Use Zones
 33.229 Elderly and Disabled High Density Housing
 33.258 Nonconforming Development
 33.266 Parking, Loading, And Transportation And Parking Demand Management
 33.281 Schools and School Sites
33.510 Central City Plan District
33.555 Marquam Hill Plan District
 33.815 Conditional Uses

Commentary

Page 36                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

33.266.200 Minimum Required Bicycle Parking

These amendments remove the Section’s overarching purpose statement to create two primary
purpose statements for the Bicycle Parking Section of Chapter 266:
1. Minimum Required Bicycle Parking, shown in this section
2. Bicycle Parking Development Standards, shown in section 33.266.210.

This new purpose statement specifically for Minimum Required Bicycle Parking includes the
updated City bicycle mode split goal to 25 percent of all trips. The update to the purpose
statement also outlines the basic methodology for how the minimum required bicycle parking
amounts were developed. This will support BDS staff who work on adjustments and
modifications.

33.266.200.B. Number of spaces required
This amendment expands the tiered approach that is used for the Multi-Dwelling developments
in the current code chapter to all use categories in Table 266-6. A tiered approach for the
number of required bike spaces accounts for differences in bike use and thus bike parking
demand in Portland. While Portland has a citywide goal of 25 percent bicycle mode split of all
trips, bicycle use rates are different in various parts of the city and meeting the 25 percent
citywide goal includes higher and lower rates in various parts of the city.

The tiered system acknowledges that a one-size-fits-all approach does not necessarily work for
development across Portland. The Transportation System Plan (TSP) uses a tiered approach for
setting target mode split rates for the five different Pattern Areas.

The changes introduce two standard rates based on the TSP Pattern Areas and Bicycle
Districts. Standard A is comprised of the Central City, Inner Neighborhoods, Gateway Plan
District, and Swan Island. Standard B applies in the Western and Eastern Neighborhoods. The
Gateway Bicycle District is the only bicycle district outside of Central City or the Inner Pattern
Area, so it was incorporated into the Standard A. Swan Island was added by the Planning and
Sustainability Commission, because the area is an employment center and relatively easy to
access by bicycle.

33.266.200.C. Calculations involving more than one use
This section has been moved, so it is underlined, but there are no changes to the content.

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 37

33.266 Parking, Loading, and Transportation and Parking Demand
Management
266

Bicycle Parking:
33.266.200 Purpose Minimum Required Bicycle Parking
33.266.210 Required Bicycle Parking Bicycle Parking Development Standards
33.266.220 Bicycle Parking Standards
33.266.200 Purpose Minimum Required Bicycle Parking
A. Purpose. Bicycle parking is required for most use categories to encourage the use of bicycles
by providing secure and convenient places to park bicycles. These regulations ensure
adequate short and long-term bicycle parking based on the demand generated by different
uses. Minimum bicycle parking facilities are based on the City’s mode split goals, while
acknowledging the usage rates for different uses. These regulations will help meet the City’s
goal that 25 percent of all trips be made by bicycle, while still acknowledging that to meet
the citywide goal the bicycle mode split will vary by geographic area.
33.266.210 Minimum Required Bicycle Parking
B. Number of spaces required. The required minimum number of bicycle parking spaces for
each use category is shown in Table 266-6. No bicycle parking is required for uses not listed.
Minimum bicycle parking is calculated on a geographic hierarchy based upon current and
future bicycle usage. See Map 266-1. Standard A applies to sites within the Central City Plan
District, the Inner Pattern Areas and in the Gateway Plan District. Standard B applies to all
other areas of the city.
C. Calculations involving more than one use. The required minimum number of bicycle
parking spaces is based on the primary uses on a site. When there are two or more separate
primary uses on a site, the required bicycle parking for the site is the sum of the required
parking for the individual primary uses.

Commentary

Page 38                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

Map 266-1 – Bicycle Parking Areas
This amendment adds the new geographic tier map, Map 266-1.

Note: At the time of code implementation, this map layer will be included in Portlandmaps.com
and MapWorks for applicants and staff to verify the specific tier for a project site.

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 39

Commentary

Page 40                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

Updated Table 266-6 – Minimum Required Bicycle Parking Spaces
Aside from a few changes in 2010, the minimum bicycle parking space requirements have not
been updated since 1996. These amendments update the minimum requirements for long- and
short-term bicycle parking based on average square footage per employee (long-term); visitation
rates (short-term); and target mode split goals. See the full methodology in the Proposal and
Analysis Section (page 24). For clarity, no strikethrough is shown in Table 266-6.

Add definition of Multi-Dwelling
The amendment adds a definition for when long-term and short-term bicycle parking are
required for multi-dwelling development.

Removing the reference to “Per CU or IMP”
The amendment removes the reference to “per Conditional Use or Impact Mitigation
Plan review” from Table 266-6 in most cases. Any requests to deviate from the amount
of required bicycle parking in code can be processed through an Adjustment, which gives
the City the benefit of approval criteria to use to evaluate the request. The one
exception is that the Per CU Review was maintained for Parks and Open Areas by the
Planning and Sustainability Commission (PSC) to account for the wide variety in parks
and open space typologies and available space.

Commercial Parking
The amendment exempts Commercial Parking facilities that have fewer than 10 vehicle
spaces from the long-term bicycle parking requirements. With the implementation of
the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, the regulations allowing the creation or conversion of
parking areas into commercial parking were expanded. It is now possible in some
commercial zones for a portion of a structured parking garage to be developed for
commercial parking. It is also possible for non-required accessory parking to be
converted to commercial parking. The conversion or creation of a smaller set of parking
to be used for commercial parking, either for the general public or for sharing, shouldn’t
trigger a requirement to add long-term bike parking.

Altering and adding new use categories and specific uses to Table 266-6
In the Zoning Code (33.920), “use categories” classify land uses and activities based on
common characteristics. “Specific uses” refer to subsets of these categories. These
amendments add the following specific uses and use categories into Table 266-6:
• Add a new specific use to the Group Living use category to separate restricted-
tenancy affordable housing developments that meet the income restrictions of the
Portland Housing Bureau (PHB) in response to feedback from affordable housing
developers and PHB.
• Add a new specific use to the Retail Sales and Services use category to distinguish
bars and restaurants because they have a much higher visitor rate and employee
density than most other retail sales categories.
• Add a new use category for Self-Service Storage. This category previously had no
requirements for short- or long-term bicycle parking.

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 41

Table 266-6
Minimum Required Bicycle Parking Spaces
  Long-term Spaces Short-term Spaces
Uses Specific Uses Standard A Standard B Standard A Standard B
Residential Categories
Household Living Multi-dwelling
[1]
2, or 1.5 per unit 2, or 1.1 per unit 2, or 1 per 20 units 2, or 1 per 20 units
 Elderly and
disabled
housing
2, or 1 per 8 units 2, or 1 per 10 units 2, or 1 per 20 units 2, or 1 per 20 units
Group Living  2, or 1 per 4
bedrooms
2, or 1 per 4
bedrooms
2, or 1 per 20
bedrooms
2, or 1 per 20 bedrooms
 Units with
restricted
tenancy [2]
2, or 1 per 5
bedrooms
2, or 1 per 10
bedrooms
2, or 1 per 20
bedrooms
2, or 1 per 20 bedrooms
 Dormitory  2, or 1 per 4
bedrooms
2, or 1 per 4
bedrooms
4 spaces 4 spaces
Commercial Categories
Retail Sales and
Services
 2, or 1 per 3,800 sq.
ft. of net building
area
2, or 1 per 7,500 sq.
ft. of net building
area
2, or 1 per 2,700 sq.
ft. of net building
area
2, or 1 per 4,400 sq. ft.
of net building area
temporary
lodging
2, or 1 per 20
rentable rooms
2, or 1 per 20
rentable rooms
2, or 1 per 40
rentable rooms; and
1 per 5,000 sq. ft. of
conference, meeting
room
2, or 1 per 40 rentable
rooms; and 1 per
10,000 sq. ft. of
conference, meeting
room
Restaurant and
Bar
2, or 1 per 2,300 sq.
ft. of net building
area
2, or 1 per 4,800 sq.
ft. of net building
area
2, or 1 per 1,000 sq.
ft. of net building
area
2, or 1 per 1,600 sq. ft.
of net building area
Office  2, or 1 per 1,800 sq.
ft. of net building
area
2, or 1 per 3,500 sq.
ft. of net building
area
2, or 1 per 20,000 sq.
ft. of net building
area
2, or 1 per 33,000 sq. ft.
of net building area
Commercial Parking
[3]
 10, or 1 per 10 auto
spaces
10, or 1 per 10 auto
spaces
None None
Commercial
Outdoor Recreation
 2, or 1 per 12,500
sq. ft. of net
building area
2, or 1 per 25,000
sq. ft. of net
building area
2, or 1 per 2 acres 2, or 1 per 3 acres
Major Event
Entertainment
 10, or 1 per 10,000
sq. ft. of net
building area
10, or 1 per 20,000
sq. ft. or net
building area
10, or 1 per 40 seats  10, or 1 per 40 seats
Self-Service Storage  2, or 1 per 100,000
sq. ft. of net
building area
2, or 1 per 200,000
sq. ft. of net
building area
2, or 1 per 26,000 sq.
ft. of net building
area
2, or 1 per 53,000 sq. ft.
of net building area

Commentary

Page 42                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

Altering and adding new use categories and specific uses to Table 266-6
(continued)
• Add a new use category for Wholesale Sales. This category previously had no
requirements for short- or long-term bicycle parking.
• In current code, light rail stations and transit centers are combined under one
specific use line in the Basic Utilities use category. This amendment separates the
two combined specific uses into two separate lines to acknowledge the differences
in bicycle parking needs for a light rail station and a transit center.
Chapter 33.920.400, Descriptions of Use Categories, separates out light rail
stations and transit centers. A light rail transit station is where light rail vehicles
stop to load or unload passengers, on a station platform. Generally, this is equivalent
to “Transit Station” as defined in 33.910. A transit center is where multiple transit
lines and sometimes light rail lines converge on one location; examples include
Hollywood Transit Center and Parkrose Transit Center.
Given the various use cases for bicycle parking at light rail stations and transit
centers and that TriMet usually has a nominal fee for using its bike lockers and bike
cages, both short- and long-term bicycle parking are required to ensure various
types of demands are met.
• Add a new Specific Use of libraries, community centers and museums to the
Community Service use category, to account for their higher visitor rate than more
general Community Service uses. Current code only distinguishes park and ride under
the Community Service use category.

Parks and Open Areas, Schools, and Daycare
• Maintain a Conditional Use threshold for the Parks and Open Areas use category.
Through the amendment process, the Planning and Sustainability Commission
removed a baseline bicycle parking requirement for short-term bicycle parking for
Parks and Open Areas and replaced it with “per CU Review.” To support this, PBOT
and Parks and Recreation staff are directed to develop recommended minimum
standards for bicycle parking provision at Parks and Open Areas.
• Reconfigure the breakout of specific uses under Schools to better match the most
prevalent grade structures at elementary, middle and high schools in Portland. For
Schools, long-term bicycle parking is intended to serve students and staff, while the
short-term bicycle parking will serve parents dropping off kids or other visitors to
the school. This amendment also adds bicycle parking requirements for grades K
through 1.
• The Planning and Sustainability Commission increased the amounts of required long -
term bicycle parking for Schools (K-12). The Commission felt that the Proposed
Draft target mode splits for schools were too low, so the new amounts use a higher
target mode split for schools, increasing 15 percent to 25 percent in Standard A and
from 10 percent to 20 percent in Standard B.

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 43

Table 266-6
Minimum Required Bicycle Parking Spaces
  Long-term Spaces Short-term Spaces
Uses Specific Uses Standard A Standard B Standard A Standard B
Industrial Categories
Manufacturing and
Production
 2, or 1 per 5,000 sq.
ft. of net building
area
2, or 1 per 9,000 sq.
ft. of net building
area
2, or 1 per 67,000 sq.
ft. of net building
area
2, or 1 per 111,000 sq.
ft. of net building area
Warehouse and
Freight Movement
 2, or 1 per 12,500
sq. ft. of net
building area
2, or 1 per 25,000
sq. ft. of net
building area
2, or 1 per 200,000
sq. ft. of net building
area
2, or 1 per 333,000 sq.
ft. of net building area
Wholesale Sales   2, or 1 per 12,500
sq. ft. of net
building area
2, or 1 per 25,000
sq. ft. of net
building area
2, or 1 per 91,000 sq.
ft. of net building
area
2, or 1 per 152,000 sq.
ft. of net building area
Institutional Categories
Basic Utilities Transit centers 30 spaces 30 spaces 12 spaces 12 spaces
Light rail
stations
12 spaces 12 spaces 4 spaces 4 spaces
Community Service  2, or 1 per 6,700 sq.
ft. of net building
area
2, or 1 per 12,500
sq. ft. of net
building area
2, or 1 per 6,300 sq.
ft. of net building
area
2, or 1 per 10,000 sq. ft.
of net building area
Libraries,
community
centers and
museums
2, or 1 per 3,000 sq.
ft. of net building
area
2, or 1 per 5,900 sq.
ft. of net building
area
2, or 1 per 1,200 sq.
ft. of net building
area
2, or 1 per 2,000 sq. ft.
of net building area
Park and ride 12, or 5 per acre 12, or 5 per acre 6 spaces 6 spaces
Parks and Open
Areas
 None None Per CU Review  Per CU Review
Schools Grades K
through 8
6 per classroom  5 per classroom 2, or 1 per 25,000 sq.
ft. of net building
area
2, or 1 per 100,000 sq.
ft. of net building area
Grades 9
through 12
5 per classroom 5 per classroom 2, or 1 per 25,000 sq.
ft. of net building
area
2, or 1 per 100,000 sq.
ft. of net building area
Colleges Excluding
dormitories (see
group living,
above)
2, or 1 per 10,000
sq. ft. of net
building area
2, or 1 per 20,000
sq. ft. of net
building area
2, or 1 per 10,000 sq.
ft. of net building
area
2, or 1 per 16,000 sq. ft.
of net building area

Commentary

Page 44                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

Parks and Open Areas, Schools, and Daycare (continued)
• This amendment adds a requirement for short-term bicycle parking for the Daycare
use category. Long-term bicycle parking is for the employees of the daycare, but
short-term bicycle parking is needed for parents who are dropping off or picking up
their children and for other visitors.
Multi-dwelling clarification
• The Planning and Sustainability Commission, through the amendment process, added
the clarification in footnote [1] that multi-dwelling projects are defined as those
with 5 or more units. Short- and long-term bicycle parking is not required for multi-
dwelling projects with 4 units or fewer on site.

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 45

Table 266-6
Minimum Required Bicycle Parking Spaces
  Long-term Spaces Short-term Spaces
Uses Specific Uses Standard A Standard B Standard A Standard B
Medical Centers  2, or 1 per 2,700 sq.
ft. of net building
area
2, or 1 per 5,500 sq.
ft. of net building
area
2, or 1 per 50,000 sq.
ft. of net building
area
2, or 1 per 100,000 sq.
ft. of net building area
Religious
Institutions
 2, or 1 per 11,000
sq. ft. of net
building area
2, or 1 per 25,000
sq. ft. of net
building area
2, or 1 per 14,000 sq.
ft. of net building
area
2, or 1 per 25,000 sq. ft.
of net building area
Daycare  2, or 1 per 3,000 sq.
ft. of net building
area
2, or 1 per 6,000 sq.
ft. of net building
area
2, or 1 per 25,000 sq.
ft. of net building
area
2, or 1 per 33,000 sq. ft.
of net building area
Other Categories
Aviation and
Surface Passenger
Terminals
 2, or 1 per 4,500 sq.
ft. of net building
area
2, or 1 per 4,500 sq.
ft. of net building
area
None None
Detention Facilities   2, or 1 per 5,000 sq.
ft. of net building
area
2, or 1 per 5,000 sq.
ft. of net building
area
None None

[1] Multi-dwelling is defined as sites with 5 or more units.
[2] Group Living units with restricted tenancy are units that are regulated affordable housing per the Portland
Housing Bureau requirements. The applicant must provide a letter from the Portland Housing Bureau
certifying that the group living development meets any income restrictions and administrative requirem ents.
The letter is required to be submitted before a building permit can be issued for the development but is not
required in order to apply for a land use review. The applicant must also execute a covenant with the City that
complies with the requirements of Section 33.700.600. The covenant must ensure that the group living use
will remain limited to households meeting any income restrictions and admin istrative requirements of the
Portland Housing Bureau.
[3] No long-term bicycle parking is required for a Commercial Parking facility with less than 10 vehicle parking
spaces.
Note: Wherever this table indicates two numerical standards, such as “2 or 1 per  3,000 sq. ft. of net building
area,” the larger number applies.

Commentary

Page 46                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

33.266.210.A. Purpose
This amendment combines all the individual purpose statements from the Bicycle Parking
Development Parking Standards Subsections under 33.266.210 into one overarching purpose
statement for the Section. This eliminates the need for repetition in separate purpose
statements for all bicycle parking, long-term bicycle parking, and short-term bicycle parking.

The Planning and Sustainability Commission, through the amendment process, added a list of
types of bicycles to which the bicycle parking standards apply, for clarification.

33.266.210.B. Where these standards apply
This amendment adds language to clarify where each of the Subsections of the Section apply,
regarding all bicycle parking standards, long-term bicycle parking and short-term bicycle
parking.

33.266.210.C. Standards for all bicycle parking
Portions of this subsection have been moved and reformatted from a later section. New
standards have been created as stated in the commentary on the following pages.

33.266.210.C.2. Bicycle racks
Through the amendment process, the Planning and Sustainability Commission modified the rack
standards to clarify that only horizontal racks need to support the bicycle at two points,
including the frame.

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 47

33.266.210 Bicycle Parking Development Standards
A. Purpose. These standards ensure that required bicycle parking is designed so people of all
ages and abilities can access the bicycle parking and securely lock their bicycle without
undue inconvenience. Bicycle parking is in areas that are reasonably safeguarded from
theft and accidental damage. The standards allow for a variety of bicycle types, including
but not limited to standard bicycles, tricycles, hand cycles, tandems, electric motor assisted
cycles and cargo bicycles. Long-term bicycle parking is in secure, weather protected
facilities and is intended for building and site occupants, and others who need bicycle
parking for several hours or longer. Short-term bicycle parking is located in publicly
accessible, highly visible locations that serve the main entrance of a building. Short-term
bicycle parking is visible to pedestrians and bicyclists on the street and is intended for
building and site visitors.
B. Where these standards apply. The standards of Subsection C and D apply to required long-
term bicycle parking, and the standards of Subsection C and E apply to required short-term
bicycle parking.
C. Standards for all bicycle parking. The Bureau of Transportation maintains a bicycle parking
handbook that includes information on rack standards, siting guidelines and other
standards of this code chapter. Long-term and short-term bicycle parking must be provided
in lockers or racks that meet the following standards:
1. Bicycle parking area standards. The area devoted to bicycle parking must be hard
surfaced.
2. Bicycle racks. Where bicycle parking is provided in racks, the racks must meet the
following standards:
a. The bicycle frame and one wheel can be locked to the rack with a high security,
U-shaped shackle lock if both wheels are left on the bicycle;
b. A horizontal rack must support the bicycle at two points, including the frame;
and
c. The rack must be securely anchored with tamper-resistant hardware.

Commentary

Page 48                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

33.266.210.C. Standards for all bicycle parking (continued)

3. Bicycle Parking Space, Maneuvering Area, and Clearance Dimensions and Table 266-7
This amendment adds a new Table 266-7 to show all required minimum dimensions for the
various bicycle parking configurations, including depth, width, height, maneuvering area and wall
clearances. Table 266-7 includes the standard spacing requirements as well as alternative
spacing requirements described below.

a. Standard Bicycle Parking Spacing Requirements
This amendment maintains the 2 foot by 6 foot bicycle standard spacing but adds a third
dimension for height/depth of a bicycle. The 3 feet 4 inch (40 inch) depth measurement is
particularly important for vertical bicycle parking racks, since the current code does not
address vertical dimensional standards. The standard spacing dimensions are intended to
provide the baseline space requirement for a bicycle parking space. This baseline is required for
measuring all bicycle parking spaces unless otherwise stated in code.

The amendment also moves the required maneuvering area requirements to this section. The
maneuvering area is measured from the end of the depth of bicycle (6 feet if placed
horizontally, or 3 feet 4 inches if placed vertically).

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 49

Notes:
[1] See Figures 266-8 through 266-13
[2] The alternative spacing allowed for vertical bicycle parking spaces requires a minimum vertical stagger of 8 inches
between each space.
[3] The alternative spacing allowed for stacked bicycle parking spaces requires a vertical stagger to be included in the
manufacturer design.

3. Bicycle Parking Space, Maneuvering Area, and Clearance Dimensions. Bicycle parking
spaces, aisles and clearances must meet the minimum dimensions contained in Table
266-7.
a. Standard Bicycle Parking Space Requirements.
(1) The standard required bicycle space is 2 feet wide, 6 feet long and 3 feet 4
inches tall. See Figure 266-8;
(2) There must be at least 5 feet behind all bicycle parking spaces to allow room
for bicycle maneuvering. Where short-term bicycle parking is adjacent to a
sidewalk, the maneuvering area may extend into the right-of-way;
(3) A wall clearance of 2 feet 6 inches must be provided. See Figure 266-9.

Table 266-7
Minimum Dimensions for Bicycle Parking Spaces [1]

Bicycle Space
Depth
Bicycle
Space Width
Bicycle
Space Height
Maneuvering
Area Width
Clearance to
rack from
walls
Standard Spacing
 Standard Bicycle
Space
6 ft. 2 ft. 3 ft. 4 in. 5 ft. 2 ft. 6 in.
Alternative
Spacing

Horizontal: Side
by Side
6 ft. 1 ft. 6 in. 3 ft. 4 in. 5 ft. 2 ft. 6 in.

Horizontal: Wall
Attached
6 ft. 2 ft. 3 ft. 4 in. 5 ft. 1 ft.
 Horizontal:
Diagonal (45-60
degree)
6 ft. 1 ft. 6 in. 3 ft. 4 in. 5 ft. 3 ft.

Vertical Spaces
[2]
3ft. 4 in.

1 ft. 5 in. 6 ft. 5 ft.
--

Stacked Spaces
[3]
-- 1 ft. 5 in. -- 8 ft. --

 Larger Bicycle
Space
10 ft.  3 ft.  3 ft. 4 in. 5 ft.  3 ft.

Commentary

Page 50                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

33.266.210.C. Standards for all bicycle parking (continued)

3. Bicycle Parking Space, Maneuvering Area, and Clearance Dimensions (continued)
b.  Alternative Spacing Requirements
Some bicycle racks stagger the bicycles, eliminating handlebar and pedal conflicts between
bicycles and accommodating more bicycle parking spaces in less space than the standard bicycle
rack dimensions.

These amendments allow those rack options, providing alternative layouts and dimensional
standards to the standard bicycle space found in Table 266-7 and stated in subparagraph 3.a.
The following options allow for “space-saving” bike racks that accommodate more bike parking in
a smaller area. Many of these alternative horizontal, vertical, and stacked bike parking
arrangements have required adjustments or modification to the code in the past. Including a
wider variety of bike parking provides flexibility for applicants to use some of these space-
saving racks. However, required bike parking must meet either the standard bicycle parking
footprint or one of the following exceptions below.

(1) Horizontal Spacing Requirements
These amendments allow narrower spacing requirements and add the following
configurations for horizontal rack dimensional standards:
• Side-by-side racks – a minimum of 3 feet between racks
• Diagonal racks – a minimum of 3 feet between racks placed on 45- to 60-degree
angle
• Horizontal racks attached to wall must provide a 1-foot clearance between rack
and wall

(2) Vertical Bicycle Parking Spacing Requirements
These amendments add the following spatial standards for vertical wall racks:
• Minimum 1 foot 5 inch (17 inch) spacing between each rack space, with a minimum
vertical stagger of 8 inches.
• At least 3 feet 4 inches (40 inches) must be provided for the depth of the
vertical bicycle parking space, measured from the wall to the required aisle (new
dimension of the bicycle footprint).

(3) Stacked Bicycle Parking Spacing Requirements
These amendments add the following spatial standards for stacked, bicycle parking :
• A minimum of 1 foot 5 inch (17 inch) spacing between spaces
• A maneuvering area of 8 feet is required behind the rack.

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 51

b. Alternative Spacing Requirements. The following bicycle parking layouts may be
provided as an exception to the standard spacing requirements in Subparagraph
C.3.a. See Table 266-7 for the alternative spacing dimensions.
(1) Horizontal bicycle parking spaces. Horizontal bicycle parking spaces secure
the parked bicycle horizontal to the ground.
• Horizontal: Side by Side. Horizontal bicycle parking that is placed side by
side as shown in Figure 266-9 may meet the alternative side by side
dimensions in Table 266-7.
• Horizontal: Wall Attached. Horizontal bicycle parking that is attached to
the wall as shown in Figure 266-10 may meet the alternative wall
attached dimensions in Table 266-7.
• Horizontal: Diagonal. Horizontal bicycle parking that is placed at a
diagonal as shown in Figure 266-11 may meet the alternative diagonal,
45-60 degree dimensions in Table 266-7.
(2) Vertical bicycle parking space. Vertical bicycle parking secures the parked
bicycle perpendicular to the ground. Vertical bicycle parking that is placed
as shown in Figure 266-12 may meet the alternative vertical dimensions in
Table 266-7.
(3) Stacked bicycle parking spaces. Stacked bicycle parking are racks that are
stacked, one tier on top of another. Bicycles are horizontal when in the final
stored position. Stacked bicycle parking that is placed as shown in Figure
266-13 may meet the alternative stacked dimensions in Table 266-7 and the
following:
• The rack must include a mechanically-assisted lifting mechanism to
mount the bicycle on the top tier.

Commentary

Page 52                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

Figures 266-8 through 266-11

New code figures illustrate the various bicycle parking space dimensions.

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 53

Figure 266-8
Standard Spacing Requirements
Figure 266-9
Horizontal Spaces: Side-by-Side
Figure 266-10
Horizontal Spaces: Wall Attached
Figure 266-11
Horizontal Spaces: Diagonal (45-60 degree)

Commentary

Page 54                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

Figures 266-12 through 266-13

New code figures illustrate the various bicycle parking space dimensions.

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 55

Figure 266-12
Vertical Spaces
Figure 266-13
Stacked Spaces

Commentary

Page 56                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

3. Bicycle lockers
These amendments add specific dimensions for bicycle lockers to set a minimum standard for
functionality.

Dimensional standards are provided for triangular locker layouts that allow for two bikes to
utilize a single locker space.

Also, a minimum access door height of 3 feet 11 inches (47 inches) is added for all bicycle
lockers.

4. Signage
No change to existing signage requirements.

5. Bicycle parking information in plans
Current code does not require that applicants provide any detail in their applications regarding
the types of bicycle racks to be used for a development. These amendments codify the level of
detail and information needed for consistent review of required bicycle parking, especially
considering the number of alternative and required layouts that are now in the code. Applicants
need to demonstrate compliance with these requirements by submitting specific information
with their building permit.

BDS staff currently receives much of this information, but this section adds clarity and
consistency regarding what is required.

This approach is similar to how Joint Use Parking (33.266.110) and Environmental Zones
(33.430.130) include more detailed documentation to be submitted as part of a building or
zoning permit application or land use review.

Through the amendment process, the Planning and Sustainability Commission modified the
requirement so that bicycle parking information in plans is only required for the building permit.

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 57

3. Bicycle lockers. Bicycle lockers are fully enclosed and secure bicycle parking spaces.
a. The locker must be securely anchored to the ground.
b.     There must be an aisle at least 5 feet wide behind all bicycle lockers to allow
room for bicycle maneuvering.
c. Locker Dimensions. All bicycle lockers must meet one of these:
(1) The locker space has a minimum depth of 6 feet, with an access door of 2
feet wide and a minimum height of 3 feet 11 inches.
(2) A locker space provided in a triangle locker layout for two bicycle parking
spaces must have a minimum depth of 6 feet 6 inches; and an access door
with a minimum width of 2 feet 6 inches; and a minimum height of 3 feet 11
inches.
4. Signage
a. Light rail stations and transit centers. If bicycle parking is not visible from the
light rail station or transit center, a sign must be posted at the station or center
indicating the location of the bicycle parking.
b. Other uses. If bicycle parking is not visible from the streets or main building
entrances, a sign must be permanently posted at the main entrance indicating
the location of the bicycle parking.
5. Bicycle parking information in plans. The following information must be submitted
with applications for a building permit:
a. Location, access route to long-term bicycle parking and number of bicycle
parking spaces for short-term and long-term bicycle parking requirements;
b. The model or design of the bicycle parking facilities to be installed;
c. Dimensions of all aisles and maneuvering areas; and
d. If applicable, information adequate to illustrate the racks and spaces that satisfy
the minimum horizontal requirement, and the racks and spaces that
accommodate a larger bicycle footprint.

Commentary

Page 58                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

33.266.210.D. Standards for long-term bicycle parking
1.a. Location Standards

The amendments regulate the appropriate locations for long-term bicycle parking.

Long-term bicycle parking can be located in one of the following areas:
• Within a building – bicycle parking can be located on the ground floor or other floors of
the building if there is elevator access to these other floors.
• On-site – bicycle parking can be located on-site, including in parking areas. On-site
bicycle parking may also be located in personal structured parking areas that are
dedicated in townhouses or other multi-dwelling buildings. If the bicycle parking is
located on-site but outside of the building, then all required long-term bicycle parking
spaces must be covered.
• In an area within 300 feet from the site – this option is being maintained from current
code so that long-term bicycle parking can be in a location where the closest point is
within 300 feet of the development site. This provision is not commonly used, but  it
provides flexibility for a developer to locate required long-term bicycle parking off-site.

Note: During the comment period, there were a number of questions about how bicycle parking
requirements interact with the ground floor active use requirement and the ground floor
window requirement. Ground floor active use references the general use cate gories (retail,
office, community service) of the building, while the ground floor window requirements address
the “things” that one can look at through the ground floor windows. Under both the Central City
Plan District (33.510.220) and the Commercial/ Mixed Use Zones (33.130.230), ground floor
windows into bicycle parking areas qualify for up to 25 percent of the ground floor windows
coverage requirement.

Therefore, if a two-story office building were proposed, and the ground floor contained the
reception desk, conference rooms, storage, bike rooms, and the restrooms, while all the offices
and employees were located upstairs, the ground floor active use requirement would be met, in
that 100% of the ground floor was dedicated to an active use (office). However, to meet the
ground floor window requirements, views into certain types of features would not be allowed. If
the window looked into the storage and utility rooms, these would not qualify as active window
features. However, up to 25 percent of the required ground floor windows may look into the
bicycle parking room.

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 59

D. Standards for Long-Term Bicycle Parking.
1. Development Standards. Long-term bicycle parking must be provided in lockers or
racks that meet the following standards. Long-term bicycle parking for Schools may
choose between (1) or (5) or a combination of those two locations:
a. Location Standards. Long-term bicycle parking may be provided in one or more of
the following locations:
(1) Within a building, including on the ground floor or on individual building
floors;
(2) On-site, including in parking areas and structured parking;
(3) In an area where the closest point is within 300 feet of the site; or

Commentary

Page 60                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

33.266.210.D.1.a. Location Standards (continued)

(4) In a dwelling unit

This amendment lists permissible locations for long-term bicycle parking within a dwelling unit.
In-unit parking is often awkwardly placed and easily removed by building managers. Further,
placing long-term bike parking requirements within private spaces disaggregates a building-wide
resource, that is calculated based on average bike ownership and family size per unit, into
private dwelling space. This could result bike parking being in a unit, where the tenant doesn’t
need it and conversely a tenant that needs bike parking does not have access to necessary bike
parking because it is in a different private dwelling unit. Because of these factors, the majority
of cities in the United States do not allow bicycle parking spaces in an apartment unit or on a
balcony to count toward the required long-term bicycle parking.

On the other hand, requiring all bicycle parking to be outside of the dwelling units has an impact
on how space is used in a building, which can increase development costs that may then get
passed down to tenants.

The Proposed Draft proposed a 20 percent allowance for in-unit placement of required long-
term parking. The Planning and Sustainability Commission amended this allowance to 50 percent,
as long as additional design standards are met: 1) the spaces are provided in a dedicated
enclosed space and 2) the spaces are located within 15 feet of the front door. The Planning and
Sustainability Commission considered the new design requirements necessary to ensure a
baseline quality for the in-unit parking, given that so much bike parking would be allowed to be
provided in-unit.

The amendment allows racks provided in-unit to be less substantial than previously required. For
example, the current standards require a design that allows a u-lock shackle to lock both bicycle
frame and one wheel to the rack.

The amendment requires the long-term parking be provided on the ground floor in buildings
without elevators. This ensures that people can get their bikes to the required bicycle parking
without having to carry them upstairs.

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 61

(4) In a residential dwelling unit. Up to 50 percent of long-term bicycle parking
spaces may be provided in a residential dwelling unit, if they meet the
following. Long-term bicycle parking provided in a residential dwelling unit
does not need to meet the requirements for Paragraph C.2. above.
Adjustments and modifications to this Subsubparagraph are prohibited.
• The bicycle parking is located within 15 feet of the entrance to the
dwelling unit.
• The bicycle parking is located in a closet or alcove of the dwelling unit
that includes a rack that meets the standard bicycle parking spacing
dimensions in Table 266-7.
• For buildings with no elevators, long-term bicycle parking must be
located in the ground floor units.

Commentary

Page 62                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

33.266.210.D.1.a. Location Standards (continued)

(5) Location standards for Schools

These amendments, and additional school-specific standards under Long-term Bicycle Parking
Security Standards and Additional Development Standards, respond to concerns from school
district representatives and others that work with students. Long-term bicycle parking is
intended to provide convenient, secure and weather-protected facilities for employees and
students. In a school setting, students and employees have different needs when it comes to
bicycle parking.

A number of the standard security and location requirements create challenges when applied to
a school setting. Specifically, secure bicycle rooms are difficult for students to access and
locating student bicycle parking any significant distance from school main entrances creates
additional barriers to use.

Therefore, this amendment limits the location of long-term school parking to within the building
and/or within an area near a main entrance. The proximity to the main entranc e is also designed
to address bicycle parking security. While this amendment allows the majority of long-term
school bicycle parking to be placed outside, it ensures that bicycles are stored in higher-
activity areas on site.

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 63

 (5) For Schools, long-term bicycle parking must be placed where the closest
space is within 100 feet of a main entrance.

Commentary

Page 64                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

33.266.210.D.1.b. Exemptions

Small site exemptions to in-unit standards
During Planning and Sustainability Commission deliberations, the Commission adopted an
amendment that would allow 100 percent of required long-term bicycle parking to be placed in-
unit for sites with up to 12 units. This amendment was intended to address a concern about
increased site constraints on small projects. However, the bike parking must meet other long-
term requirements, including that upper floor units not accessible by an elevator cannot provide
their parking within the unit.
Removal of exemptions for affordable housing developments
The Planning and Sustainability Commission also approved an amendment that removed two in-
unit exceptions for affordable housing developments that were previously included in the
Proposed Draft because these exemptions became redundant with 1) the adoption of the
increase of the in-unit allowance of 50 percent for projects citywide and 2) the allowance of
100 percent in-unit for small sites (12 units or less).

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 65

b. Exceptions. Sites containing residential development with 12 or fewer dwelling
units may provide up to 100 percent of required long-term bicycle parking spaces
in the dwelling units. All other in-unit standards in Subsubparagraph D.1.a.(4).,
above must be met.

Commentary

Page 66                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

Location Standards (continued)

c. Sites with multiple uses
This amendment requires that all tenants of mixed-use buildings (employees and residents) can
access long-term bicycle parking spaces. The bicycle parking can be provided in a common space
with restricted access or in multiple separate locations, but all tenants must have access to at
least the amount of long-term bicycle parking required for that use category.

d. Covered bicycle parking
The amendments to the covered bicycle parking standards state that 100 percent of long -term
bicycle parking must be covered, compared to 50 percent in current code. Additio nally,
dimensional standards for the cover are added to ensure protection of bicycles from wind-
driven rain. A Planning and Sustainability Commission amendment also added language to clarify
that the cover for bicycle parking does not need to project on sides with solid walls.

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 67

c. For sites with multiple primary uses, long-term bicycle parking must be provided
in an area that can be accessed from each use. If bicycle parking is provided in a
common area on the site, the area must be accessible for all tenants.
d. Covered bicycle parking. All long-term bicycle parking must be covered. Where
covered bicycle parking is not within a building or locker, the cover must be:
(1) Permanent;
(2) Impervious; and
(3) The cover must project out a minimum of 2 feet beyond the bicycle parking
spaces on the portion of the structure that is not enclosed by a wall.

Commentary

Page 68                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

33.266.210.D. Standards for long-term bicycle parking

2. Security Standards
Security is one of the Stakeholder Advisory Committee’s guiding principles for the bicycle
parking code update and a primary issue brought up during community outreach and engagement.
Security needs are different in residential buildings than non-residential buildings. In some
cases, bicycle parking at a residential building may act more as storage because not everyone
uses a bicycle every day.

The amendments provide two sets of security requirements. Long-term bicycle parking for
residential uses must be provided in a lockable, restricted access room or enclosure designated
primarily for bicycle parking. For all other use categories, bicycle parking must be located in a
lockable room or enclosure but does not require that the space be designated for bicycl es. For
example, this distinction would allow the flexibility of co-locating bicycle parking spaces with
staff work areas on upper floors in an office use or in the back-office area of a small retail
establishment.

These amendments remove the following options as standalone security provisions because they
are easily removed or changed during the life of the building and thus do not provide the
necessary security for long-term residential bike parking:
• Within view of an attendant or security guard;
• Within 100 feet of an attendant or security guard;
• In an area that is monitored by a security camera; or
• In an area that is visible from employee work areas.

Finally, this section also includes additional school standards to better meet the needs of
students and staff. During outreach, staff heard concerns that while locked enclosures are
necessary for adult employees storing their bicycles all day, they can pose a challenge for
students to use, particularly given the short time windows when students need access to bicycle
parking.

Therefore, the amendment allows up to 90 percent of required bicycle parking to be located
outside of a lockable enclosure. These spaces will still need to meet other requirements, such as
100 percent weather protection and located on-site within 100 feet from a main entrance. The
remaining 10 percent of parking that must meet the standard security requirements and is
intended to serve school staff.

b. Lighting
These amendments add lighting standards for long-term bicycle parking and access routes. This
language is consistent with the lighting requirement under the pedestrian standards section in
33.120.255 and 33.130.240.

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 69

2. Security Standards.
a.  Long-term bicycle parking must meet the following security standards:
(1) Long-term bicycle parking for residential uses must be provided in one of
the following:
• A restricted access, lockable room or enclosure, designated primarily for
bicycle parking;
• A bicycle locker; or
• In a residential dwelling unit meeting Subsubparagraph 1.a.(4), above.
(2) Long-term bicycle parking for all other uses must be located in one of the
following locations. For Schools, a minimum of 10 percent of bicycle parking
must be located in the following:
• A restricted access, lockable room or enclosure; or
• A bicycle locker.
b. All access routes and the bicycle parking spaces must be lighted to a level where
the system can be used at night by the employees and residents.

Commentary

Page 70                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

3. Additional Development Standards
The following amendments set new development standards for bicycle racks to ensure usability
for people of all abilities and to accommodate a variety of different types of bicycles.

To reduce the burden on smaller developments, these standards only apply to sites where more
than 20 long-term bicycle parking spaces are required.

a. Minimum horizontal bicycle parking spaces
Current code does not distinguish between ground-mounted, horizontal racks and wall-
mounted, vertical racks. This has led to the use of exclusively vertical racks in some
developments. While vertical racks can be space efficient, they present usability issues
for some people and some bicycles. At least 30 percent of required spaces must be in a
horizontal rack or on the lower level of a stacked bicycle parking rack to accommodate
people who cannot lift a bicycle.

Finally, recognizing that students may have difficulty using vertical or stacked parking,
this amendment requires all required outdoor bicycle parking at elementary (K-5) and
middle (6-8) schools to be placed horizontally.

b. Parking for larger bicycle footprints
To accommodate larger bikes like cargo bikes, recumbent bikes and bikes with trailers, a
minimum of 5 percent of required bicycle parking spaces must accommodate a bicycle
footprint of 3 feet by 10 feet and be provided in a horizontal rack. The bicycle parking
spaces that fit the larger bicycle footprint standard will also count toward the minimum
horizontal bicycle parking spaces.

c. Access to electrical sockets
The use of e-bikes is continuing to grow nationally and in Portland. This amendment
requires an electrical outlet near 5 percent of the required bicycle parking spaces to
accommodate plug-in electric bikes. This amendment was included in the Discussion
Draft and then removed during the Proposed Draft due to logistical issues of checking
outlets during Planning and Zoning review. However, the Planning and Sustainability
Commission, through the amendment process, restored the amendment, recognizing the
growing prevalence of electric bicycles.

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 71

3. Additional Development Standards. The following standards apply to sites where more
than 20 long-term bicycle parking spaces:
a. Minimum number of horizontal bicycle parking spaces. At least 30 percent of
spaces must be in a horizontal rack, or on the lower level of a stacked bicycle
parking rack. For Schools (K-8), all spaces located outside of the building must be
in a horizontal rack.
b. Parking for larger bicycle space. At least 5 percent of spaces must accommodate
a larger bicycle space, placed in a horizontal rack. These spaces may be included
to meet the requirement for Subparagraph D.3.a.
c. Electrical outlet requirement. At least 5 percent of spaces must have electrical
sockets accessible to the spaces. Each electrical socket must be accessible to
horizontal bicycle parking spaces.

Commentary

Page 72                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

33.266.210.E. Standards for short-term bicycle parking
Purpose
The purpose statement for the short-term bicycle parking was combined into the single
purposed statement for the Bicycle Parking Development Standards (33.266.210).
Most of the language in this section is the same as existing code, but the number references
have changed, therefore this section is entirely underlined.

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 73

E. Standards for Short-term Bicycle Parking.
1. Development Standards. Short-term bicycle parking must meet the following
standards:
a. Location Standards. Short-term bicycle parking must meet the following location
standards:
(1) On-site, outside a building;
(2) At the same grade as the sidewalk or at a location that can be reached by an
accessible route; and
(3) Within the following distances of the main entrance:
• Building with one main entrance. For a building with one main entrance,
the bicycle parking must be within 50 feet of the main entrance to the
building as measured along the most direct pedestrian access route.
(See Figure 266-14)
• Building with more than one main entrance. For a building with more
than one main entrance, the bicycle parking must be along all façades
with a main entrance, and within 50 feet of at least one main entrance
on each façade that has a main entrance, as measured along the most
direct pedestrian access route. (See Figure 266-15)
• Sites with more than one primary building. For sites that have more
than one primary building, but are not an institutional campus, the
bicycle parking must be within 50 feet of a main entrance as measured
along the most direct pedestrian access route, and must be distributed
to serve all primary buildings (See Figure 266-16);
• Institutional Campus. On an institutional campus with more than one
building or main entrance, the bicycle parking must be either:
- Within 50 feet of a main entrance as measured along the
most direct pedestrian access route; or
- If the short-term bicycle parking is more than 50 feet from a
main entrance, it must be in a common bicycle parking
location along a pedestrian access route.

Commentary

Page 74                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

33.266.210.E. Standards for short-term bicycle parking (continued)
b. Bicycle Parking Fund
The amendment removes the all-or-nothing aspect of the Short-term Bicycle Parking Fund to
allow partial placement of the short-term requirement on-site and the remainder to be paid into
the Fund.

Short-term Bicycle Parking Figures
No changes were made to these figures; however, the Figure Numbers have changed.

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 75

b. Bicycle Parking Fund.
(1) This option may be used if any of the required short-term bicycle parking
cannot be provided on site in a way that complies with all of the standards
in Subsection C and E. This option may not be used if:
• There are surface parking areas, plazas, exterior courtyards, or other
open areas on the site, other than required landscaping;
• Those open areas are large enough, separately or in combination, to
accommodate all short-term bicycle parking; and
• The open areas meet the location requirements of Subparagraph E.1.a.,
above.
(2) Fund use and administration. The Bicycle Parking Fund is collected and
administered by the Bureau of Transportation. The funds collected will be
used to install bicycle parking and associated improvements in the right-of-
way.

Figure 266-14
Short-term bike parking – one building, one entrance

Commentary

Page 76                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

Short-term Bicycle Parking Figures (continued)
No changes were made to these figures; however, the Figure Numbers have changed.

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 77

Figure 266-15
Short-term bike parking – one building, multiple entrances
Figure 266-16
Short-term bike parking – multiple buildings, multiple entrances

Commentary

Page 78                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

Strikethrough of Current Code
Due to the changes in the order of this code chapter and the significant changes to the bicycle
parking standards, all of the current code is strike through.

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 79

33.266.200 Purpose
Bicycle Parking is required for most use categories to encourage the use of bicycle by providing safe
and convenient places to park bicycles. These regulations ensure adequate short and long-term
bicycle parking based on the demand generated by the different use categories and on the level of
security necessary to encourage the use of bicycles for short and long stays. These regulations will
help meet the City’s goal that 10 percent of all trips be made by bicycle.
33.266.210 Required Bicycle Parking
A. Number of spaces required.
1. The required minimum number of bicycle parking spaces for each use category is
shown on Table 266-6. No bicycle parking is required for uses not listed.
2. The required minimum number of bicycle parking spaces is based on the primary uses
on a site. There are no bicycle parking requirements for accessory uses. However, if
the required number of spaces for the primary uses is based on net building area, the
net building area of accessory uses is included with the primary uses in the calculation.
For example, a Manufacturing and Production uses of 45,000 square feet with 15,000
square feet of accessory Office use would have a bicycle parking requirement of 4
spaces, based on 60,000 square feet of net building area. If the primary use is not
listed in Table 266-6, no bicycle parking is required for the accessory use.
3. When there are two or more separate primary uses on a site, the required bicycle
parking for the site is the sum of the required parking for the individual primary uses.
B. Exemptions.
1. No long-term bicycle parking is required on a site where there is less than 2,500
square feet of gross building area.
2. No bicycle parking is required for a Commercial Parking facility on a surface parking lot
in the Central City plan district.
33.266.220 Bicycle Parking Standards
A. Short-term bicycle parking.
1. Purpose. Short-term bicycle parking encourages shoppers, customers, messengers,
and other visitors to use bicycles by providing a convenient and readily accessible
place to park bicycles. Short-term bicycle parking should serve the main entrance of a
building and should be visible to pedestrians and bicyclists.
2. Standards. Required short-term bicycle parking must meet the following standards:
a. Short-term bicycle parking must be provided in lockers or racks that meet the
standards of Subsection 33.266.220.C.

Commentary

Page 80                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

Strikethrough of current code continued

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 81

b. Location Standards. Required short-term bicycle parking must meet the following
location standards:
(1) Outside a building;
(2) At the same grade as the sidewalk or at a location that can be reached by an
accessible route; and
(3) Within the following distances of the main entrance:
• Building with one main entrance. For a building with one main entrance,
the bicycle parking must be within 500 feet of the main entrance to the
building as measured along the most direct pedestrian access route.
(See Figure 266-8)
• Building with more than one main entrance. For a building with more
than one main entrance, the bicycle parking must be along all façades
with a main entrance, and within 50 feet of at least one main entrance
on each façade that has a main entrance, as measured along the most
direct pedestrian access route. (See Figure 266-9)
• Sites with more than one primary building. For sites that have more
than one primary building, but are not an institutional campus, the
bicycle parking must be within 50 feet of a main entrance as measured
along the most direct pedestrian access route, and must be distributed
to serve all primary buildings (See Figure 266-110);
• Institutional Campus. On an institutional campus with more than one
building or main entrance, the bicycle parking must be either:
- Within 50 feet of a main entrance as measured along the
most direct pedestrian access route; or
- If the short-term bicycle parking is more than 50 feet from a
main entrance, it must be in a common bicycle parking
location along a pedestrian access route.
 c. Bicycle Parking Fund.
(1) This option may be used only if it is not possible to provide all of the
required short-term bicycle parking on-site in a way that complies with all of
the standards in Subsection A and D. This option may not be used if:
• There are surface parking areas, plazas, exterior courtyards, or other
open areas on the site, other than required landscaping;
• Those open areas are large enough, separately or in combination, to
accommodate all required short-term bicycle parking; and
• The open areas meet the location requirements of D.2., above.
(2) Fund use and administration. The Bicycle Parking Fund is collected and
administered by the Bureau of Transportation. The funds collected will be
used to install bicycle parking and associated improvements in the right-of-
way.
(3) This option may not be used if any required short-term bicycle parking is
provided on site.

Commentary

Page 82                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

Strikethrough of current code continued

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 83

Table 266-6
Minimum Required Bicycle Parking Spaces
Use Categories Specific Uses Long-term Spaces Short-term Spaces
Residential Categories
Household Living Multi-dwelling 1.5 per 1 unit in Central
City plan district; 1.1 per 1
unit outside Central City
plan district
2, or 1 per 20 units
Group Living  2, or 1 per 20 residents None
Dormitory 1 per 8 residents None
Commercial Categories
Retail Sales And Service  2, or 1 per 12,000 sq. ft.
of net building area
2, or 1 per 5,000 sq. ft. of net
building area
Temporary Lodging 2, or 1 per 20 rentable
rooms
2, or 1 per 20 rentable rooms
Office  2, or 1 per 10,000 sq. ft.
of net building area
2, or 1 per 40,000 sq. ft. of net
building area
Commercial Parking  10, or 1 per 20 auto
spaces
None
Commercial Outdoor
Recreation
 10, or 1 per 20 auto
spaces
None
Major Event Entertainment  10, or 1 per 40 seats or
per CU review
None
Industrial Categories
Manufacturing And
Production
 2, or 1 per 15,000 sq. ft.
of net building area
None
Warehouse And Freight
Movement
 2, or 1 per 40,000 sq. ft.
of net building area
None

Commentary

Page 84                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

Strikethrough of current code continued

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 85

Table 266-6
Minimum Required Bicycle Parking Spaces
Use Categories Specific Uses Long-term Spaces Short-term Spaces
Institutional Categories
Basic Utilities Light rail stations,
transit centers
8 None
Community Service  2, or 1 per 10,000 sq. ft.
of net building area
2, or 1 per10,000 sq. ft. of net
building area
 Park and ride 10, or 5 per acre None
Parks And Open Areas  Per CU review Per CU review
Schools Grades 2 through 5 2 per classroom, or per
CU or IMP review
None
 Grades 6 through 12 4 per classroom, or per
CU or IMP review
None
Colleges Excluding
dormitories
(see Group Living,
above)
2, or 1 per 20,000 sq. ft.
of net building area, or
per CU or IMP review
2, or 1 per 10,000 sq. ft. of net
building area, or per CU or IMP
review
Medical Centers  2, or 1 per 70,000 sq. ft.
of net building area, or
per CU or IMP review
2, or 1 per 40,000 sq. ft. of net
building area, or per CU or IMP
review
Religious Institutions  2, or 1 per 4,000 sq. ft. of
net building area
2, or 1 per 2,000 sq. ft. of net
building area
Daycare  2, or 1 per 10,000 sq. ft.
of net building area
None
Other Categories
Aviation And Surface
Passenger Terminals,
Detention Facilities
 Per CU Review Per CU Review

Note: Wherever this table indicates two numerical standards, such as "2, or 1 pe r 3,000 sq. ft. of net
building area," the larger number applies.

Commentary

Page 86                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

Strikethrough of current code continued

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 87

B. Long-term bicycle parking.
1. Purpose. Long-term bicycle parking provides employees, students, residents,
commuters and other who generally stay at a site for several hours, a secure and
weather-protected place to park bicycles. Although long-term parking does not have
to be provided on-site, the intent of these standards is to allow bicycle parking to be
within a reasonable distance in order to encourage bicycle use.
2. Standards. Required long-term bicycle parking must meet the following standards:
a. Long-term bicycle parking must be provided in lockers or racks that meet the
standards of Subsection 33.266.220.C.
b. Location. Long-term bicycle parking must be located on the site or in an area
where the closest point is within 300 feet of the site;
c. Covered Spaces. At least 50 percent of required long-term bicycle parking must
be covered and meet the standards of Paragraph 33.266.220.C.5., Covered
Bicycle Parking; and
d. Security. To provide security, long-term bicycle parking must be in at least one of
the following locations:
(1) In a locked room;
(2) In an area that is enclosed by a fence with a locked gate. The fence must be
either 8 feet high, or be floor-to-ceiling;
(3) Within view of an attendant or security guard;
(4) Within 100 feet of an attendant or security guard;
(5) In an area that is monitored by a security camera; or
(6) In an area that is visible from employee work areas.

C. Standards for all bicycle parking.
1. Purpose. These standards ensure that required bicycle parking is designed so that
bicycles may be securely locked without undue inconvenience and will be reasonably
safeguarded from intentional or accidental damage.
2. Bicycle lockers. Where required bicycle parking is provided in lockers, the lockers must
be securely anchored.
3. Bicycle racks. The Office of Transportation maintains a handbook of racks and siting
guidelines that meet the standards of this paragraph. Required bicycle parking may be
provided in floor, wall, or ceiling racks. Where required bicycle parking is provided in
racks, the racks must meet the following standards:
a. The bicycle frame and one wheel can be locked to the rack with a high security,
U-shaped shackle lock if both wheels are left on the bicycle;

Commentary

Page 88                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

Strikethrough of current code continued

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 89

b. A space 2 feet by 6 feet must be provided for each required bicycle parking
space, so that a bicycle six feet long can be securely held with its frame support
so that the bicycle cannot be pushed or fall in a manner that will damage the
wheels or components. See Figure 266-11; and
c. The rack must be securely anchored.
4. Parking and maneuvering areas.
a. Each required bicycle parking space must be accessible without moving another
bicycle;
b. There must be an aisle at least 5 feet wide behind all required bicycle parking to
allow room for bicycle maneuvering. Where the bicycle parking is adjacent to a
sidewalk, the maneuvering area may extend into the right-of-way; and
a. The area devoted to bicycle parking must be hard surfaced.
5. Covered bicycle parking. Covered bicycle parking, as required by this section, can be
provided inside buildings, under roof overhangs or awnings, in bicycle lockers, or
within or under other structures. Where required covered bicycle parking is not within
a building or locker, the cover must be:
a. Permanent;
b. Designed to protect the bicycle from rainfall; and
c. At least 7 feet above the floor or ground.
6. Signs.
a. Light rail stations and transit centers. If required bicycle parking is not visible
from the light rail station or transit center, a sign must be posted at the station or
center indicating the location of the parking;
b. Other uses. For uses other than light rail stations and transit centers, if required
bicycle parking is not visible from the street or main building entrance, a sign
must be posted at the main building entrance indicating the location of the
parking.
7. Use of required parking spaces.
a. Required short-term bicycle parking spaces must be available for shoppers,
customers, messengers, and other visitors to the site.
b. Required long-term bicycle parking spaces must be available for employees,
students, residents, commuters, and others who stay at the site for several
hours.

Commentary

Page 90                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

Chapter 33.120 Multi-Dwelling Zones

33.120.280 Detached Accessory Structures
This amendment adds covered bicycle parking to the list of examples for detached covered
accessory structures.

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 91

33.120 Multi-Dwelling Zones

33.120.280 Detached Accessory Structures
A. [no change]
B. [no change]
C. Detached covered accessory structures. Detached covered accessory structures are items
such as garages, greenhouse, artist’s studios, guest houses, accessory dwelling units,
laundry or community buildings, storage buildings, covered bicycle parking, wood sheds,
water collection cisterns, and covered decks or patios. The following apply to all detached
covered accessory buildings. Garages are also subject to the standards of 33.120.283.

Commentary

Page 92                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

Chapter 33.130 Commercial/Mixed-Use Zones

33.130.205 Floor Area Ratio
This amendment adds long-term bicycle parking to the existing FAR (floor area ratio) exemption
for structured parking in commercial/mixed use zones. Any long-term bicycle parking spaces
provided within the building is exempt from FAR similar to the exemption for structured
parking. The maximum floor area that can be exempt for both of these types of parking is 0.5
to 1 FAR.

Note: The Better Housing by Design project proposes to include a corresponding FAR exemption
for long-term bicycle parking in development in multi-dwelling zones.

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 93

33.130 Commercial/ Mixed Use Zones

33.130.205 Floor Area Ratio
A. [no change]
B. FAR standard. The maximum floor area ratios are stated in Table 130-2 and apply to all
uses and developments. Additional floor area may be allowed through bonus options, as
described in Section 33.130.212, or transferred from historic resources per Subsection C.
Except in the CR zone, floor area for structured parking and required long-term bicycle
parking, up to a maximum FAR of 0.5 to 1, is not calculated as part of the FAR for the site.
Adjustments to the maximum floor area ratios are prohibited.
C. [no change]

Commentary

Page 94                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

33.130.265 Detached Accessory Structures
This amendment adds covered bicycle parking to the list of examples for detached covered
accessory structures.

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 95

33.130.265 Detached Accessory Structures
A. [no change]
B. [no change]
C. Setbacks.
1. [no change]
2. Covered structures.
a. Covered structures such as storage buildings, greenhouses, covered bicycle
parking, and work sheds are subject to the setbacks for buildings.

Commentary

Page 96                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

Chapter 33.229 Elderly and Disabled High Density Housing

33.229.040 Design Standards
The bicycle parking amount for Elderly and Disabled Housing is being included in the updated
Table 266-6. This separate reference in this chapter is not necessary and this amendment
removes the reference.

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 97

33.229 Elderly and Disabled High Density Housing

33.229.040 Design Standards
C. Parking and passenger loading.
1. [no change]
2. Bicycle Parking. The project must meet the bicycle parking requirements of Chapter
33.266, Parking and Loading.
 a.
b. Exception. The minimum required long-term bicycle parking for units restricted
by covenant is one space for every eight units.
3. [no change]

Commentary

Page 98                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

Chapter 33.258 Nonconforming Development

33.258.070
Under current code, if a site with nonconforming development makes improvements above a
financial threshold, then the development must be brought closer to current standards. This
includes bringing short- and long-term bicycle parking up to code. However, there are two
exemptions to the standard. If a development does not have accessory surface parking or if the
development is within the Central City or Lloyd District, then only short-term bicycle parking
must be brought up to code standard.

The current code results in insufficient provision of new bicycle parking, especially in areas lik e
the Central City, where Portland has a very high bicycle mode split. The amendments in this
section remove the exemption for developments within the Central City or Lloyd District but
maintain the exemption for developments without accessory surface parking, since those
projects would have to repurpose existing building area to comply. Note that most Central City
sites may still meet the exemption since they don’t have accessory surface parking lots.

In addition, the amended code requires projects that meet the threshold of a major remodel to
upgrade both required short-term and long-term bicycle parking to current standards. As
defined below, major remodels are large scale renovations or additions to a building that are
more likely to include revisions to site and floor plans that can incorporate bike parking.

Definition of major remodel (33.910): Projects where the floor area is being increased
by 50 percent or more, or where the cost of the remodeling is greater than the
assessed value of the existing improvements on the site. Assessed value is the value
shown on the applicable county assessment and taxation records for the current year.

A number of examples in code list where the major remodel definition is used as a threshold to
apply standards, including but not limited to the following:
• 33.130.282: The large-site pedestrian connectivity standard applies to major remodels if
the site is over 5 acres (i.e., higher any nonconforming upgrade threshold).
• 33.229.010 and 33.229.030: The elderly housing bonuses and standards are only available
for new development and major remodeling projects.
• 33.292.020: The superblock requirements get triggered for major remodels that also have
certain requirements.
• 33.510.211 Central City Plan District requires a shadow study for major remodeling projects
that increases building height above 100 feet on certain sites along the Park Blocks.
• 33.510.223 Central City Plan District bird-safe glazing requirements apply to a major
remodel that is also altering at least 75 percent of the façade.
• 33.510.225 Central City Plan District ground floor active use standards apply to major
remodels on certain street frontages.

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 99

33.258 Nonconforming Development

33.258.070 Nonconforming Development
D. Development that must be brought into conformance.
1. [no change]
a. [no change]
b. [no change]
c. Bicycle parking by upgrading existing bicycle parking and providing additional
spaces in order to comply with 33.266.2200 and 33.266.210;
2. Nonconforming development with an existing nonconforming use, allowed use,
limited use, or conditional use. Nonconforming development associated with an
existing nonconforming use, an allowed use, a limited use, or a conditional use, must
meet the requirements stated below. When alterations are made that are over the
threshold of Subparagraph D.2.a., the site must be brought into conformance with the
development standards listed in Subparagraph D.2.b. The value of the alterations is
based on the entire project, not individual building permits.
a. [no change]
b. Standards which must be met. Development not complying with the
development standards listed below must be brought into conformance or
receive an adjustment.
(1) [no change]
(2) [no change]
(3) Bicycle parking by upgrading existing racks and providing additional spaces
in order to comply with 33.266.2200, Bicycle Parking as follows:
• Major remodeling projects must meet the standards for all bicycle
parking;
• Sites with surface parking must meet the standards for all bicycle
parking;
• In all other situations, the amounts and standards Sites that do not have
accessory surface parking or are inside the Central City Core Area or
Lloyd District, as shown on Map 510-8, are not required to meet this
standard for long-term bicycle parking, but are required to meet this
standard for short-term bicycle parking must be met.

Commentary

Page 100                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

Chapter 33.266 Parking, Loading, And Transportation And Parking Management

33.266.110.D. – Exceptions to the minimum number of parking spaces
This amendment adds an exception to the minimum number of parking spaces to allow required
vehicle parking areas to be converted to bicycle parking to accommodate required bicycle
parking minimums.

Current code allows a number of exceptions to the minimum required parking spaces if
developments include items that are beneficial to overall livability: tree preservation, transit-
oriented plazas, carshare spaces and bikeshare stations. This amendment is also consistent with
33.266.130.G.3.e., which allows the amount of required vehicle parking to be reduced by the
amount needed to accommodate the minimum interior parking lot landscaping required by
current code.

This amendment was added as “c”, so the remainder of the current exemptions are renumbered.

Note: Title 33 defines “parking area” and “parking space” in terms of motor vehicles:
• Parking area. A parking area is all the area devoted to the standing, maneuvering, and
circulation of motor vehicles. Parking areas do not include driveways or areas devoted
exclusively to non-passenger loading.
• Parking space. A space designed to provide standard area for a motor vehicle.

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 101

33.266 Parking, Loading, And Transportation And Parking Demand
Management
266

33.266.110.D
D. Exceptions to the minimum number of parking spaces. The minimum number of required
parking spaces may be reduced as follows
1. [no change]
2. Other exceptions. The minimum number of required parking spaces may not be
reduced by more than 50 percent through the exceptions of this Paragraph. The 50
percent limit applies cumulatively to all exceptions in this Paragraph:
a. [no change]
b. Replacement of parking areas with non-required bicycle parking. Bicycle parking
may substitute for up to 25 percent of required parking spaces. For every 5 non-
required bicycle parking spaces that meet the short or long-term bicycle parking
standards, the motor vehicle parking requirement is reduced by one space.
Existing parking may be converted to take advantage of this provision.
c. Replacement of existing parking areas with required bicycle parking. Existing
required parking spaces may be converted to bicycle parking to accommodate
required bicycle parking minimums. The amount of parking spaces required is
reduced by the amount needed to accommodate the minimum bicycle parking
required.
d. [no change]
e. [no change]
f. [no change]
g. [no change]

Commentary

Page 102                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

Chapter 33.281 Schools and School Sites

33.281.050.A.3

This amendment adds bicycle parking to the list of exterior improvements that are exempt
from the 1,500 square foot limit for work allowed without a conditional use review.

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 103

33.281 Schools and School Sites

33.281.050.A
A. Allowed. Alterations to the site that meet all of the following are allowed without a
conditional use review
1. [no change]
2. [no change]
3. Increases of exterior improvement areas up to 1,500 square feet. Fences, handicap
access ramps, on-site pedestrian circulation systems, Community Gardens, Market
Gardens, bicycle parking, and increases allowed by Paragraphs A.5 and A.8 are exempt
from this limitation;
4. [no change]
5. [no change]
6. [no change]
7. [no change]
8. [no change]

Commentary

Page 104                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

Chapter 33.510 Central City Plan District

33.510.251 Additional Standards in the South Waterfront Subdistrict

This amendment was added by the Planning and Sustainability Commission to remove the 110
percent bicycle parking requirement in South Waterfront subdistrict. The Planning and
Sustainability Commission felt that there was no justifiable reason to hold this subdistrict to a
higher rate than all areas of the City given the increases to the minimum required amounts in
Table 266-6.

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 105

33.510 Central City Plan District

33.510.251 Additional Standards in the South Waterfront Subdistrict
Sites in the South Waterfront subdistrict must meet the following standards.
A. [no change]
B. [no change]
C. Locker rooms and additional bicycle parking.
1. [no change]
2. [no change]
3. [no change]
4. Bicycle parking. At least 110 percent of the required long-term bicycle parking for the
site must be included in the proposal. The bicycle parking must meet the standards of
33.266.220.B., Long-Term Bicycle Parking.

Commentary

Page 106                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

Chapter 33.510.251 Additional Standards in the South Waterfront Subdistrict

This amendment was added by the Planning and Sustainability Commission to allow the existing,
heavily-used, uncovered OHSU bike valet to count towards future code requirements , subject
to a set of standards that cap the number of spaces, require minimum open hours and require
the area to be monitored by an attendant. To ensure that these standards are maintained, a
covenant will need to be recorded at the time that future development triggers the need for
these spaces to count toward their required bicycle parking.

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 107

4. Exception for existing long-term bicycle parking.
a. Purpose. These regulations allow existing uncovered long-term bicycle parking to
continue without upgrading the nonconforming elements of the racks. The
existing, attendant monitored, bicycle parking provides a convenient and secure
long-term bicycle parking option that works in conjunction with the suspended
cable transportation system that provides access to both the Marquam Hill plan
district and South Waterfront subdistrict of the Central City plan district.
b. Where these standards apply. These standards provide an alternative to the
long-term bicycle parking standards in 33.266 and apply to required long-term
bicycle parking facilities in the South Waterfront subdistrict of the Central City
plan district.
c. Existing Bicycle Parking. Existing long-term bicycle parking may be used to meet
required long-term bicycle parking. The existing bicycle parking is not required to
meet Subsections 33.266.210.C and D if the long-term bicycle parking meets the
following:
(1) The bicycle parking is located in the South Waterfront subdistrict of the
Central City plan district as of [Month Day, 2019];
(2) The bicycle parking area has an attendant present during the hours of 6:00
am to 7:30 pm from Monday to Friday to monitor the area and aid in
parking bicycles;
(3) The bicycle parking area does not exceed 500 spaces;
(4) The bicycle parking must be within 100 feet of a suspended cable
transportation system; and
(5) The applicant must sign a covenant that ensures that the existing long-term
bike parking will continue to meet the above standards until the bike
parking is no longer required. The covenant must comply with the
requirements of 33.700.060, Covenants with the City.

Commentary

Page 108                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

33.510.261.G.- Preservation Parking and 33.510.261.I.

This amendment removes the references to bicycle parking in this chapter to clean up the
multiple, sometimes conflicting references to bicycle parking requirements. The update to Table
266-6 addresses the required bicycle parking amounts for Commercial Parking, and the
regulations do not need to be repeated under the Central City Plan District Chapter.

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 109

33.510.261.G
G. Preservation Parking. The regulations of this subsection apply to Preservation Parking.
Adjustments to this subsection are prohibited.
1. [no change]
2. [no change]
3. [no change]
4. [no change]
5. Bicycle parking. Preservation Parking facilities must provide 1 long-term bicycle
parking spaces for every 14 motor vehicle parking spaces.

33.510.261.I
I. All parking built after (insert effective date). The regulations of this subsection apply to all
new parking regardless of type.
1. [no change]
2. [no change]
3. [no change]
4. [no change]
5. [no change]
6. [no change]
7. Bicycle parking. Bicycle parking is regulated by Chapter 33.266, Parking and Loading.
For most types of development, bicycle parking requirements are based on the
primary use, such as Office or Retail Sales And Service. For Commercial Parking, which
includes Visitor Parking, bicycle parking is based on the number of motor vehicle
parking spaces. There are additional bicycle parking requirements for Preservation
Parking, see Paragraph G.5.

Commentary

Page 110                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

Chapter 33.555 Marquam Hill Plan District

This amendment was added by the Planning and Sustainability Commission to allow the existing,
heavily- used, uncovered OHSU bike valet to count towards future code requirements. See the
commentary for 33.510.251 on page 106 for additional information.

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 111

33.555 Marquam Hill Plan District

33.555.295 Existing Bicycle Parking
A. Purpose. These regulations allow existing uncovered long-term bicycle parking to continue
without upgrading the nonconforming elements of the racks. The existing, attendant
monitored, bicycle parking provides a convenient and secure long-term bicycle parking
option that works in conjunction with the suspended cable transportation system that
provides access to both the Marquam Hill plan district and South Waterfront subdistrict of
the Central City plan district.
B. Where these standards apply. These standards provide an alternative to the long-term
bicycle parking standards in 33.266 and apply to required long-term bicycle parking facilities
in the Marquam Hill Plan District.
C. Existing Bicycle Parking. Existing long-term bicycle parking may be used to meet required
long-term bicycle parking. The existing bicycle parking is not required to meet Subsections
33.266.210.C and D if the long-term bicycle parking meets the following:
1. The bicycle parking is located in the South Waterfront subdistrict of the Central City
plan district as of [Month Day, 2019];
2. The bicycle parking area has an attendant present during the hours of 6:00 am to
7:30 pm from Monday to Friday to monitor the area and aid in parking bicycles;
3. The bicycle parking area does not exceed 500 spaces;
4. The bicycle parking must be within 100 feet of a suspended cable transportation
system; and
5. The applicant must sign a covenant that ensures that the existing long-term bike
parking will continue to meet the above standards until the bike parking is no longer
required. The covenant must comply with the requirements of 33.700.060,
Covenants with the City.

Commentary

Page 112                                       Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                 May 2019

Chapter 33.815 Conditional Uses

33.815.040.B.1.d

This amendment adds bicycle parking to the list of exterior improvements that are exempt
from the 1,500 square foot limit for work allowed without a conditional use review.

May 2019                           Bicycle Parking—Recommended Draft                                        Page 113

33.815 Conditional Uses

33.815.050.B
B. Proposals that alter the development of an existing conditional use. Alterations to the
development on a site with an existing conditional use may be allowed, require an
adjustment, modification, or require a conditional use review, as follows:
1. Conditional use review not required. A conditional use review is not required for
alterations to the site that comply with Subparagraphs a through f. All other
alterations are subject to Paragraph 2, below. Alterations to development are allowed
by right provided the proposal:
a. [no change]
b. [no change]
c. [no change]
d. Does not increase the exterior improvement area by more than 1,500 square
feet. Fences, handicap access ramps, and on-site pedestrian circulation systems,
ground mounted solar panels, Community Gardens, Market Gardens, bicycle
parking, and parking space increases allowed by 33.815.040.B.1.f, below, are
exempt from this limitation;
e. [no change]
f. [no change]
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 1

Text amendments to the zoning code must be found to be consistent with the City of Portland’s
Comprehensive Plan, the regional Urban Growth Management Functional Plan and Regional
Transportation Functional Plan, and the Statewide Planning Goals and the administrative rules that carry
out these goals. In addition, the amendments must be consistent with the intent or purpose statement
for the base zone, overlay zone, and plan district where the amendment is proposed, and any plan
associated with the regulations. (33.835.040)
1. Finding: Within this exhibit the Portland City Council has identified and addressed all plans, goals,
policies, rules that apply to the Bicycle Parking Code Update (BPCU) amendments.
2. Finding: The City Council has considered the public testimony on this matter and has weighed all
applicable Comprehensive Plan goals and policies and, on balance and overall, finds that adoption of
BPCU amendments would advance the Guiding Principles and goals and policies of the 2035
Comprehensive Plan. The BPCU amendments therefore comply with Portland’s Comprehensive Plan.
Part I. Statewide Planning Goals
State planning statutes require cities to adopt and amend comprehensive plans and land use regulations
in compliance with the Statewide Planning Goals.
The Statewide Planning Goals that apply to Portland are:
Goal 1 Citizen Involvement
Goal 2 Land Use Planning
Goal 5 Natural Resources, Scenic and Historic Areas, and Open Spaces
Goal 6 Air, Water and Land Resource Quality
Goal 7 Areas Subject to Natural Hazards
Goal 8 Recreational Needs
Goal 9 Economic Development
Goal 10 Housing
Goal 11 Public Facilities and Services
Goal 12 Transportation
Goal 13 Energy Conservation
Goal 14 Urbanization
Goal 15 Willamette River Greenway
There are approximately 560 acres of land both within Portland’s municipal boundaries and beyond the
regional urban growth boundary that can be classified as rural land. In 1991, as part of Ordinance
164517, the City Council took an exception to Goal 3 and 4 the agriculture and forestry goals. Because of
the acknowledged exception, the following goals do not apply:
Goal 3 Agricultural Lands
Goal 4 Forest Lands
Other Statewide Planning Goals apply only within Oregon’s coastal zone. Since Portland is not within
Oregon’s coastal zone, the following goals do not apply to this decision:
Goal 16 Estuarine Resources
Goal 17 Coastal Shorelands
Goal 18 Beaches and Dunes
Goal 19 Ocean Resources
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 2

Goal 1. Citizen Involvement. To develop a citizen involvement program that insures the opportunity
for citizens to be involved in all phases of the planning process.
3. Finding: The BPCU project meets this goal. The events and outreach strategies summarized below
demonstrate consistency with the requirements of Statewide Planning Goal 1.
The Portland community had an opportunity to be involved in development and adoption of the
BPCU amendments.
Discussion Draft. The public comment period of the Discussion Draft of the BPCU spanned from its
release on August 14 through October 1, 2018. The outreach period focused on informing the
public on the Zoning Code proposals. As documented in the Appendices, in the period leading up
to the release of the Discussion Draft, PBOT staff held a Stakeholder Advisory Group process and
worked extensively with specific organizations representing groups who are affected by and
interested in the topic.
Proposed Draft. On December 12, 2018, the Proposed Draft of BPCU amendments was published
in preparation for the Planning and Sustainability Commission (PSC) review and recommendation.
In support of this process, the websites of both the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability (BPS)
and the Portland Bureau of Transportation (PBOT) had project pages dedicated to this project, and
telephone and email contact information to learn about the project. BPS also hosted a “Map App”
page for submitting testimony online.
Just prior to and after the release of the Proposed Draft, PBOT staff made public presentations to
organizations on request. Additionally, staff held a focus group with members of the Andando en
Bicicletas y Caminando (ABC) in Cully, a community group focused on uniting the community with
activities and events to spread awareness about the benefits of cycling.
The City followed the legislative process for Zoning Code Projects, and the PSC held a public
hearing on January 22, 2019. Twenty people testified at the hearing. A total of 72 pieces of
testimony (written and verbal) was received.
On February 26, 2018, the PSC discussed and amended the proposal and voted to recommend the
changes to City Council. The PSC amendments were in response to testimony and guided by City
goals and policies.
Recommended Draft. On October 14, 2019, a legislative notice of the City Council Hearing was
sent to interested parties and anyone who testified to the PSC on the proposed draft. On October
3, 2019 the Bicycle Parking Code Update published the PSC recommendations for consideration by
City Council. City Council held a public hearing on November 13, 2019, to receive verbal testimony.
Goal 2. Land Use Planning. To establish a land use planning process and policy framework as a basis
for all decisions and actions related to use of land and to assure an adequate factual base for such
decisions and actions.
4. Finding: The BPCU project supports Goal 2 because the amendments were developed consistent
with the Statewide Planning Goals, the Metro Urban Growth Management Functional Plan the
Metro Regional Transportation Functional Plan, and 2035 Comprehensive Plan, as detailed in this
ordinance.
5. Finding: Other government agencies received notice from the 35-day DLCD notice and the City’s
legislative notice. The City did not receive any requests from other government agencies to modify
these amendments.
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 3

6. Finding: The City Council’s decision is based on the findings in this document, which are based on
the factual evidence presented to the Planning and Sustainability Commission and City Council
that are incorporated in the record that provides the adequate factual base for this decision.
Goal 5. Open Space, Scenic and Historic Areas, and Natural Resources. To protect natural resources
and conserve scenic and historic areas and open spaces.
7. Finding:
Open Spaces. None of the bicycle parking changes involve designated open spaces (OS map
designations).
Scenic Resources. The City has designated scenic resources. Existing scenic resource protections
(Chapter 33.480) are not being amended.
Historic Resources. Historic resources are located throughout the City. Existing historic resource
protections are not being amended (Chapter 33.445).
Natural Resources. Existing natural resource protections are not being amended (Chapters 33.430
and 33.465). However, not all resources identified in the City’s updated Natural Resources
Inventory (NRI) are currently included in these protections. The City has initiated a separate
legislative process to update the environmental overlay zones based on the adopted NRI.
Generally. As noted below in the findings for the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, the BPCU project is
consistent with the goals and policies of Chapter 4 (Design and Development, including Historic
and Cultural Resources) and Chapter 7 (Environment and Watershed Health) of the 2035
Comprehensive Plan and the findings in response to those goals and policies are incorporated by
reference. Therefore, the BPCU project is consistent with the requirements of Statewide Planning
Goal 5.
Goal 6. Air, Water, and Land Resource Quality. To maintain and improve the quality of the air, water
and land resources of the state.
8. Finding: Goal 6 requires the maintenance and improvement of the quality of air, water, and land
resources. The State has not yet adopted specific requirements for complying with Statewide
Planning Goal 6. The City is in compliance with environmental standards and statutes, including
the federal Clean Water Act and Clean Air Act. Existing City regulations including Title 10 (Erosion
Control) and the Stormwater Management Manual will remain in effect and are applicable to
future development. As noted below in the findings for the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, the BPCU
project is consistent with the goals and policies of Chapter 7 (Environment and Watershed Health)
of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan and the findings in response to those goals and policies are
incorporated by reference. Therefore, the BPCU project is consistent with the requirements of
Statewide Planning Goal 6.
Goal 7. Areas Subject to Natural Disasters and Hazards. To protect people and property from natural
hazards.
9. Finding: The State has not yet adopted specific requirements for complying with Statewide
Planning Goal 7. The Buildable Land Inventory (BLI), which was adopted (Ordinance 187831) and
acknowledged by LCDC on April 25, 2017, included a development constraint analysis that
identified parts of Portland that are subject to natural hazards. City programs that are deemed in
compliance with Metro Title 3 requirements for flood management, and erosion and sediment
control (i.e., City Title 10 Erosion Control, and the balanced cut and fill requirements of City Title
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 4

24), as well as the environmental overlay zones are unchanged by these amendments and will
ensure any new development will be done in a way to protect people and property from hazards.
As noted below in the findings for the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, the BPCU project is consistent
with the goals and policies of Chapter 7 (Environment and Watershed Health) of the 2035
Comprehensive Plan and findings in response to those goals and policies are incorporated by
reference. Therefore, the BPCU project is consistent with the requirements of Statewide Planning
Goal 7.
Goal 8. Recreational Needs. To satisfy the recreational needs of the citizens of the state and visitors
and, where appropriate, to provide for the siting of necessary recreational facilities including
destination resorts.
10. Finding: Goal 8 focuses on the provision of destination resorts. However, it does impose a general
obligation on the City to plan for meeting its residents’ recreational needs: “(1) in coordination
with private enterprise; (2) in appropriate proportions; and (3) in such quantity, quality and
locations as is consistent with the availability of the resources to meet such requirements.”
Goal 8 provides that “Recreation Needs ‐‐ refers to existing and future demand by citizens and
visitors for recreations areas, facilities and opportunities.” Goal 8 also provides that “Recreation
Areas, Facilities and Opportunities ‐‐ provide for human development and enrichment, and include
but are not limited to: open space and scenic landscapes; recreational lands; history, archaeology
and natural science resources; scenic roads and travelers; sports and cultural events; camping,
picnicking and recreational lodging; tourist facilities and accommodations; trails; waterway use
facilities; hunting; angling; winter sports; mineral resources; active and passive games and
activities.”
The City of Portland has robust and diverse system of parks, recreation areas and open spaces.
The City’s Parks 2020 Vision documents the City’s long-term plan to provide a wide variety of high-
quality park and recreation services and opportunities for all residents. The Parks 2020 Vision
identifies a goal that 100% of Portlanders are within ½ mile of a Park or Natural Area. As of 2016,
81% of the City’s households are within ½ mile of a park or natural area, whereas 86 percent of
the multi-dwelling zoned areas (4,317 acres out of a total of 5,010 acres) are within ½ mile of a
park or natural area. Providing additional opportunities for future households to locate in these
areas will continue to contribute towards fulfillment of this goal.
The BPCU project supports Goal 8 because it includes requirements for bicycle parking at
development in uses such as, Commercial Outdoor Recreation and Parks & Open Areas to ensure
visitors that access these sites by bicycle have a place to park.  The Planning and Sustainability
Commission made an amendment that bicycle parking requirements for Parks and Open Areas are
based on a Conditional Use Review and directed PBOT and Portland Parks and Recreation Bureau
to develop a memorandum of understanding outlining minimum standards for different facility
types.
Goal 9. Economic Development. To provide adequate opportunities throughout the state for a variety
of economic activities vital to health, welfare, and prosperity of Oregon’s citizens.
11. Finding: Goal 9 requires cities to consider economic activities vital to the health, welfare, and
prosperity of Oregon's citizens. Comprehensive plans for urban areas are required to include,
among other things: an analysis of economic patterns, potentialities, strengths, and deficiencies;
policies concerning economic development; and land use maps that provide for at least an
adequate supply of sites for a variety of industrial and commercial uses.
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 5

The 2035 Comprehensive Plan demonstrates compliance with Goal 9. Land needs for a variety of
industrial and commercial uses are identified in the Economic Opportunities Analysis (EOA), which
was adopted (Ordinance 187831) and acknowledged by LCDC on April 25, 2017.
The City’s acknowledged EOA analyzed and demonstrated adequate growth capacity for a diverse
range of employment uses, which are organized into different geographies that represent a
distinct mix of business sectors and building types. In each of the geographies, the City analyzed
the future employment growth and the developable land supply to accommodate that growth.
As noted below in the findings for the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, the BPCU project is consistent
with the goals and policies of Chapter 6 (Economic Development) of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan
and the findings in response to those goals and policies are incorporated by reference. Therefore,
the BPCU project is consistent with the requirements of Statewide Planning Goal 9.

Goal 10. Housing. To provide for the housing needs of citizens of the state.
12. Finding: The BPCU project meets Goal 10 because the City worked to ensure the amendments
were clear and objective and do not cause unreasonable cost or delay in providing needed
housing.
For example, staff in collaboration with DECA Architecture, conducted a Spatial and Economic
Study of the BPCU amendment proposals in the Discussion Draft. Details on the analysis can be
found in the Appendices. The Study found that the biggest impact of the BPCU project was on
small sites (5,000 sq. ft.) where space is limited to accommodate adequate bicycle parking. The
PSC adopted several amendments to address these small site constraints, including, not requiring
any bicycle parking for sites with 4 or fewer units and for sites with up to 12 units, 100 percent of
long-term bicycle parking can be provided in dwelling units, as opposed to use limited space
outside the unit for bicycle parking.
Goal 11. Public Facilities and Services. To plan and develop a timely, orderly and efficient
arrangement of public facilities and services to serve as a framework for urban and rural development.
13. Finding: Statewide Planning Goal 11, Public Facilities, requires cities to adopt and update public
facilities plans. Public facilities plans ensure that urban development is guided and supported by
types and levels of water, sewer and transportation facilities appropriate for the needs and
requirements of the urban areas to be serviced, and that those facilities and services are provided
in a timely, orderly and efficient arrangement.

The adopted 2035 Comprehensive Plan includes the Citywide Systems Plan (CSP), which was
adopted (Ordinance 185657) and acknowledged by LCDC on April 25, 2017. The CSP includes the
Public Facilities Plan with information on current and future transportation, water, sanitary sewer,
and stormwater infrastructure needs and projects, consistent with the requirements of Statewide
Planning Goal 11.

Sanitary Sewer
Both Portland’s combined sewer system and its sanitary sewer system have hydraulic and
condition deficiencies that impact the ability of these systems to serve existing properties at
designated service levels. These deficiencies can result in higher risks for sewer backups,
surcharging, and/or overflows.

Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 6

Stormwater
Stormwater is conveyed through the combined sewer system, pipes, ditches, or drainageways to
streams and rivers. In some cases, stormwater is managed in detention facilities, other vegetated
facilities, or allowed to infiltrate in natural areas. Safe conveyance of stormwater is an issue in
some areas, particularly in the hilly areas of west Portland and some parts of outer southeast
which lack comprehensive conveyance systems and where infiltration is limited by geology or high
groundwater. Since 1999, the Stormwater Management Manual (SWMM) has provided policy and
design requirements for stormwater management throughout the City of Portland. The
requirements apply to all development, redevelopment, and improvement projects within the City
of Portland on private and public property and in the public right-of-way. In some cases, solutions
may not be technically or financially feasible. Flooding continues to be an issue, particularly in the
Johnson Creek area.

Water
Water demand forecasts developed by the Water Bureau anticipate that while per capita water
demands will continue to decline somewhat over time, the overall demands on the Portland water
system will increase due to population growth. The Portland Water Bureau has not experienced
any major supply deficiencies in the last 10 years.

Transportation facilities are addressed under Statewide Planning Goal 12, below.

The constraints on public facilities are not insurmountable, but mean development could face
increased cost to provide the constrained infrastructure.

As noted below in the findings for the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, the BPCU project is consistent
with the goals and policies of Chapter 8 (Public Facilities and Services) of the 2035 Comprehensive
Plan and the findings in response to those goals and policies are incorporated by reference.
Therefore, the BPCU project is consistent with the requirements of Statewide Planning Goal 11.

Goal 12. Transportation. To provide and encourage a safe, convenient and economic transportation
system.
14. Finding: The BPCU project meets this goal because the provision of bicycle parking at trip origins
and destinations is a necessary component for supporting bicycling as a form of transportation.
The City works on building the connected and safe network of bicycle infrastructure in the right-
of-way, but the BPCU project requires that private and public development contribute to the
bicycle infrastructure network by ensuring there are adequate and safe places to park a bicycle at
these sites.

Transportation Planning Rule 660-012-0045 3(a) calls for “Bicycle Parking facilities as part of new
multi-family residential developments of four units or more, new retail, office and institutional
developments, and all transit transfer stations and park-and-ride lots.” The BPCU project includes
required amounts and standards for 30 Use and Specific Use Categories, including Multi-Dwelling
developments, retail, office, institutions, like colleges and medical centers, and transit stations.

The required numbers of bicycle parking spaces were calculated using data points such as the
industry standard for average square footage per employee (or employee density), visitation rates
from Transportation System Development Charges, and target mode split to build out the
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 7

methodology for updating the amounts. More detail on the methodology can be found in the
Recommended Draft (Section IV) and in the Stakeholder Advisory Committee Report.

15. Finding:  The current amount required for Office Uses, 2, or 1 per 10,000 square feet of net
building area, only equates to enough bike parking spaces for 3.5% of employees. This is well
below the City’s target mode split and well below even the current bike mode split of 7%, based
on the American Community Survey data. Therefore, the proposed amendments use verified data
points to require long-term bicycle parking for employees based on mode split goals.

Staff used the following to calculate the ratios for Office Use:

Long-Term Bicycle Parking:
• Employee Density = 350 sq. ft. per employee (from City of Portland Economic
Opportunities Analysis, 2016 - note this was the most conservative in the range of data
points found)
• Target Mode Split - 15% average bicycle mode split for commute trips:
o Standard A = 20%
o Standard B = 10%
• Resulting Long-Term Requirements:
o Standard A = 1 per 1,800 sq. ft. of net building area
o Standard B = 1 per 3,500 sq. ft. of net building area

Finally, as can be seen in Table A of Appendix D of the Recommended Draft, long-term bike
parking is often provided at rates that meet or exceed proposed required levels. However, we are
only seeing these rates of bicycle parking at Class A office projects in or near the Central City.
Therefore, the BPCU project amendments are focused on ensuring there is bicycle parking at
office uses across the city to meet current and future demand.

16. Finding: The BPCU project does not change the functional classification of an existing or planned
transportation facility, change the standards implementing a functional classification system, or
degrade the performance of an existing or planned transportation facility.
Goal 13. Energy Conservation. To conserve energy.
17. Finding: The state has not adopted specific rules for complying with Statewide Planning Goal 13.
Goal 13 generally requires that land use plans contribute to energy conservation. The BPCU
project does not adopt or amend a local energy policy or implementing provisions.
This goal does not apply because the BPCU project does not adopt or amend a local energy policy
or implementing provisions. However, the BPCU project includes standards for bicycle parking at
new and major redevelopment, which supports bicycling as an environmentally friendly, low-
energy mode of transportation.
Goal 14. Urbanization. To provide for an orderly and efficient transition from rural to urban land use,
to accommodate urban population and urban employment inside urban growth boundaries, to ensure
efficient use of land, and to provide for livable communities.
18. Finding: Metro is responsible for Goal 14 compliance on behalf of Portland and other cities within
the metropolitan region. Metro has adopted an Urban Growth Management Functional Plan and
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 8

compliance with this plan by constituent cities assures compliance with Goal 14, which is
discussed in Part II of this document and those findings are incorporated by reference.
19. Finding: As part of the BPCU project the City conducted a Spatial and Economic Analysis Study to
determine the impacts of the proposed amendments in the Discussion Draft. Details of the
analysis can be found in the Appendices. The Study found that the biggest impact of the BPCU
project was on small sites (5,000 sq. ft.) where space is limited to accommodate adequate bicycle
parking. The PSC adopted several amendments to address these small site constraints, including,
not requiring any bicycle parking for sites with 4 or fewer units and for sites with up to 12 units,
100 percent of long-term bicycle parking can be provided in dwelling units, as opposed to use
limited space outside the unit for bicycle parking. Therefore, BPCU project will not impact
Portland’s development capacity.
Goal 15. Willamette River Greenway. To protect, conserve, enhance and maintain the natural, scenic,
historical, agricultural, economic and recreational qualities of lands along the Willamette River as the
Willamette River Greenway.
20. Finding: Goal 15 does not apply because the BPCU project does not change the protections to
affected lands within the Willamette River Greenway Overlay Zone.
Part II. Metro Urban Growth Management Functional Plan
Under ORS 268.380 and its Charter, Metro has the authority to adopt regional plans and require city
and county comprehensive plans to comply with regional plan. Metro adopted its Urban Growth
Management Functional Plan under this authority.
In its June 2011 update to its 2010 compliance report Metro found, “The City of Portland is in
compliance with all Urban Growth Management Functional Plan requirements in effect on December
15, 2010, except for Title 13, Nature in Neighborhoods. On January 16, 2013 the City received a letter
from Metro stated that Portland had achieved compliance with Title 13.
Title 1. Housing Capacity. The Regional Framework Plan calls for a compact urban form and a “fair-
share” approach to meeting regional housing needs. It is the purpose of Title 1 to accomplish these
policies by requiring each city and county to maintain or increase its housing capacity, especially in
centers, corridors, main streets, and station communities, except as provided in section 3.07.120.
21. Finding: The BPCU project meets Title 1 because the project will not affect the City’s obligation to
maintain or increase housing capacity. The City worked to ensure the amendments were clear and
objective and do no cause unreasonable cost or delay in providing needed housing. For example,
staff in collaboration with DECA Architecture, conducted a Spatial and Economic Study of the
BPCU amendment proposals in the Discussion Draft. Details on the analysis can be found in the
Appendices. The Study found that the biggest impact of the BPCU project was on small sites (5,000
sq. ft.) where space is limited to accommodate adequate bicycle parking. The PSC adopted several
amendments to address these small site constraints, including, not requiring any bicycle parking
for sites with 4 or fewer units and for sites with up to 12 units, 100 percent of long-term bicycle
parking can be provided in dwelling units, as opposed to use limited space outside the unit for
bicycle parking.
Title 2. Regional Parking Policy. (repealed in 1997 by Metro Ordinance 10-1241B, Sec. 6)
Title 3. Water Quality and Flood Management. To protect the beneficial water uses and functions and
values of resources within the Water Quality and Flood Management Areas by limiting or mitigating
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 9

the impact on these areas from development activities and protecting life and property from dangers
associated with flooding.
22. Finding: Title 3 calls for the protection of the beneficial uses and functional values of resources
within Metro-defined Water Quality and Flood Management Areas by limiting or mitigating the
impact of development in these areas. Title 3 establishes performance standards for 1) flood
management; 2) erosion and sediment control; and 3) water quality. The City has adopted overlay
zones and land use regulations, including Title 10 Erosion Control and the balanced cut-and-fill
standards in Title 24 Building Regulations, that, in the June 2011 update to its 2010 compliance
report, Metro found sufficient to comply with Title 3.

This title does not apply because the BPCU project does not amend or affect Water Quality and
Flood Management Areas.
Title 4. Industrial and Other Employment Areas. The Regional Framework Plan calls for a strong
regional economy. To improve the economy, Title 4 seeks to provide and protect a supply of sites for
employment by limiting the types and scale of non-industrial uses in Regionally Significant Industrial
Areas (RSIAs), Industrial and Employment Areas. Title 4 also seeks to provide the benefits of
"clustering" to those industries that operate more productively and efficiently in proximity to one
another than in dispersed locations. Title 4 further seeks to protect the capacity and efficiency of the
region’s transportation system for the movement of goods and services and to encourage the location
of other types of employment in Centers, Corridors, Main Streets and Station Communities. The Metro
Council will evaluate the effectiveness of Title 4 in achieving these purposes as part of its periodic
analysis of the capacity of the urban growth boundary.
23. Finding: The purpose of Title 4 is to maintain a regional supply of existing industrial and
employment land by limiting competing uses for this land. Metro has not adopted a Statewide
Planning Goal 9 economic opportunities analysis for the region, so Title 4 is not based on an
assessment of the land needed for various employment types, nor do the Title 4 maps necessarily
depict lands most suitable to accommodate future job growth. Rather, Title 4 seeks to protect the
manufacturing, warehousing, and distribution of goods within three types of mapped areas by
limiting competing uses. These three areas are Regionally Significant Industrial Areas (RSIAs),
Industrial Areas, and Employment Areas.
This title does not apply because the BPCU project does not affect existing industrial and
employment land supply.
Title 5. Neighboring Cities (repealed 1997)
Title 6. Centers, Corridors, Station Communities and Main Streets. The Regional Framework Plan
identifies Centers, Corridors, Main Streets and Station Communities throughout the region and
recognizes them as the principal centers of urban life in the region. Title 6 calls for actions and
investments by cities and counties, complemented by regional investments, to enhance this role. A
regional investment is an investment in a new high-capacity transit line or designated a regional
investment in a grant or funding program administered by Metro or subject to Metro’s approval.
24. Finding: Title 6 establishes eligibility criteria for certain regional investments, and the use of more
flexible trip generation assumptions when evaluating transportation impacts. Title 6 also contains
aspirational activity level targets for different Metro 2040 place types. This title is incentive-based,
so these findings simply serve to document intent. There are no specific mandatory compliance
standards in Title 6 that apply to this ordinance.
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 10

The BPCU project helps achieve the Metro 2040 Growth Concept by requiring the provision of
adequate bicycle parking in development. This includes development with Centers, Corridors,
Station Communities and Main Streets. In order to achieve a balanced transportation system to
move people and goods, the City needs to meet its target mode split goals established in the
Comprehensive Plan 2035 and the Transportation System Plan. These bicycle mode split goals
were used to guide the updated methodology for the required amounts of bicycle parking in the
BPCU project to ensure there is adequate amounts of bicycle parking in development.
Title 7. Housing Choice. The Regional Framework Plan calls for establishment of voluntary affordable
housing production goals to be adopted by local governments and assistance from local governments
on reports on progress towards increasing the supply of affordable housing. It is the intent of Title 7 to
implement these policies of the Regional Framework Plan.
25. Finding: This title does not apply because the BPCU project affects the provision of bicycle parking
in development and does not affect the City’s creation of housing production goals and reporting
on supply of affordable housing. As discussed in Finding 12, the BPCU project proposals were
amended by the Planning and Sustainability Commission to reduce the impacts of required bike
parking on small sites.
Title 8. Compliance Procedures. Title 8 addresses compliance procedures. This Title requires the City
to notify Metro of pending land use decisions by providing Metro a copy of the 35-day notice required
by the DLCD for proposed completion of a periodic review task. Title 8 also requires the City to provide
findings of compliance with the Urban Growth Management Functional Plan.
26. Finding: This notice was provided to Metro. Title 8 also requires the City to provide findings of
compliance with the Urban Growth Management Functional Plan. The findings in this ordinance
were also provided to Metro. All applicable requirements of Title 8 have been met.
Title 9. Performance Measures. (repealed in 2010)
Title 10. Functional Plan Definitions. Title 10 contains definitions. When 2035 Comprehensive Plan
uses a term found in Title 10 either the term has the same meaning found in Title 10, or the difference
is explained.
27. Finding: This title does not apply because the BPCU project does not change any definitions in the
2035 Comprehensive Plan.
Title 11. Planning for New Urban Areas. The Regional Framework Plan calls for long-range planning to
ensure that areas brought into the UGB are urbanized efficiently and become or contribute to mixed-
use, walkable, transit-friendly communities. It is the purpose of Title 11 to guide such long-range
planning for urban reserves and areas added to the UGB. It is also the purpose of Title 11 to provide
interim protection for areas added to the UGB until city or county amendments to land use
regulations to allow urbanization to become applicable to the areas.
28. Finding: This title does not apply because the BPCU project does not create new urban areas.
Title 12. Protection of Residential Neighborhoods. Existing neighborhoods are essential to the
success of the 2040 Growth Concept. The intent of Title 12 of the Urban Growth Management
Functional Plan is to protect the region’s residential neighborhoods. The purpose of Title 12 is to help
implement the policy of the Regional Framework Plan to protect existing residential neighborhoods
from air and water pollution, noise, and crime and to provide adequate levels of public services.
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 11

29. Finding: Title 12 addresses protection of residential neighborhoods. This title largely restricts
Metro’s authority to plan and regulate density in single-family neighborhoods. This title does not
apply because the BPCU project does not employ any of the optional provisions of Title 12.
Title 13. Nature in Neighborhoods. The purposes of this program are to (1) conserve, protect, and
restore a continuous ecologically viable streamside corridor system, from the streams’ headwaters to
their confluence with other streams and rivers, and with their floodplains in a manner that is integrated
with upland wildlife habitat and with the surrounding urban landscape; and (2) to control and prevent
water pollution for the protection of the public health and safety, and to maintain and improve water
quality throughout the region.
30. Finding: This title does not apply because the BPCU project affects the provision of bicycle parking
in development and does not affect the existing environmental overlay zones.
Title 14. Urban Growth Management Plan. Title 14 addresses the regional urban growth boundary.
31. Finding: This title does not apply because the BPCU project affects the provision of bicycle parking
in development and does not require, nor initiate, a boundary change.
Summary, Urban Growth Management Functional Plan Findings
32. Finding: The Metro Title 10 definition of comply or compliance means “substantial” rather than
absolute compliance. "Substantial compliance" means city comprehensive plans and
implementing ordinances, on the whole, conforms with the purposes of the performance
standards in the functional plan and any failure to meet individual performance standard
requirements is technical or minor in nature. For the facts and reasons stated above this
ordinance substantially complies with all Urban Growth Management Functional Plan
requirements applicable to the BPCU amendments.

Part III. Portland’s Comprehensive Plan
Portland’s 2035 Comprehensive Plan was adopted as part of Task Four of Periodic Review.  Task Four
was adopted by Ordinance No. 187832 on June 15, 2016.  The 2035 Comprehensive Plan was amended
as part Task Five of Periodic Review, which was adopted by Ordinance No. 188177 on December 21,
2016.  Both ordinances were made effective on May 24, 2018 by Ordinance No. 188695, and both Tasks
Four and Five were approved by LCDC Order 18 – WKTSK – 001897 on August 8, 2018.
Guiding Principles
The 2035 Comprehensive Plan adopted five “guiding principles” in additional to the goals and policies
typically included in a comprehensive plan. These principles were adopted to reinforce that
implementation of the plan needs to be balanced, integrated and multi-disciplinary, and the influence of
each principle helps to shape the overall policy framework of the plan. The BPCU amendments further
these guiding principles as described below.

Economic Prosperity. Support a low-carbon economy and foster employment growth,
competitiveness and equitably distributed household prosperity.

33. Finding: The BPCU project advances this principle by supporting low-cost, low-carbon
transportation options for all Portlanders. As outlined in Section II of the Recommended Draft
Report transportation is the second highest household cost and owning a car can cost a family
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 12

approximately $8,500 a year. The project supports low-cost, active transportation options which
can provide tangible economic benefits to individuals and households across Portland.

Human Health. Avoid or minimize negative health impacts and improve opportunities for
Portlanders to lead healthy, active lives.

34. Finding: The BPCU project meets this principle because the project requires safe, convenient
bicycle parking in new development, which supports bicycling for transportation and recreation,
supporting people to be more active in their daily lives. As outlined in Section II of the
Recommended Draft Report, regular physical activity, including the use of active transportation,
helps improve overall health and fitness and reduces risk for many chronic diseases.
Environmental Health. Weave nature into the city and foster a healthy environment that sustains
people, neighborhoods, and fish and wildlife. Recognize the intrinsic value of nature and sustain the
ecosystem services of Portland’s air, water and land.

35. Finding: Per Section II of the Recommended Draft Report, the BPCU project meets this principle
because it will increase the supply of bicycle parking, which supports bicycling, a low-carbon
transportation option. Nearly 40 percent of all local carbon emissions come from transportation
sources. Promoting active transportation is one of the key strategies to reduce carbon emissions
from the transportation sector.
Equity. Promote equity and environmental justice by reducing disparities, minimizing burdens,
extending community benefits, increasing the amount of affordable housing, affirmatively furthering
fair housing, proactively fighting displacement, and improving socio-economic opportunities for
under-served and under-represented populations. Intentionally engage under-served and under-
represented populations in decisions that affect them. Specifically recognize, address and prevent
repetition of the injustices suffered by communities of color throughout Portland’s history.
36. Finding: This guiding principle does not require every project to meet every aspect of this
guiding principle. The BPCU project meets this principle because it establishes standards for
bicycle parking that consider the needs of people with a range of abilities. For example,
amendments include standards to require bicycle parking spaces that can accommodate other
sized bikes like tricycles, family sized bikes and hand cycles. Additionally, for larger developments,
standards require that a percentage of bicycle racks must allow for horizontal bicycle parking, so
people don’t have to lift their bike onto a wall-mounted, vertical bike rack. The Council finds this
project reduces disparities for people of differing abilities and furthers fair housing.
37. Finding: The BPCU project also meets this principle because the project staff conducted
intentional engagement with the Portland Housing Bureau, affordable housing developers and
tenants, which included communities of color and people with low-income, to develop the
proposed amendments. This included inviting and providing interpreters for members of Andando
en Bicicletas y Caminando (ABC), a community advocacy group in Cully, to testify at the PSC
Hearing.
Resilience. Reduce risk and improve the ability of individuals, communities, economic systems, and
the natural and build environments to withstand, recover from, and adapt to changes from natural
hazards, human-made disasters, climate change, and economic shifts.
38. Finding: The BPCU project meets this principle in emergency situations where fossil fuel may be
difficult to get and roads may be blocked to larger vehicles, bicycles will be an important short-
range transportation mode. The BPCU project supports this guiding principle by including
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 13

standards for a variety of bicycle types, including standard bicycles, tricycles, hand cycles,
tandems, electric motor assisted cycles and cargo bicycles that can be used in emergency
situations.

Chapter 1: The Plan
Goal 1.A: Multiple goals. Portland’s Comprehensive Plan provides a framework to guide land use,
development, and public facility investments. It is based on a set of Guiding Principles that call for
integrated approaches, actions, and outcomes that meet multiple goals to ensure Portland is
prosperous, healthy, equitable, and resilient.
Goal 1.B: Regional partnership. Portland’s Comprehensive Plan acknowledges Portland’s role within
the region, and it is coordinated with the policies of governmental partners.
Goal 1.C: A well-functioning plan. Portland’s Comprehensive Plan is effective, its elements are
aligned, and it is updated periodically to be current and to address mandates, community needs, and
identified problems.
Goal 1.D: Implementation tools. Portland’s Comprehensive Plan is executed through a variety of
implementation tools, both regulatory and non-regulatory. Implementation tools comply with the
Comprehensive Plan and are carried out in a coordinated and efficient manner. They protect the
public’s current and future interests and balance the need for providing certainty for future
development with the need for flexibility and the opportunity to promote innovation.
Goal 1.E: Administration. Portland’s Comprehensive Plan is administered efficiently and effectively
and in ways that forward the intent of the Plan. It is administered in accordance with regional plans
and state and federal law.
39. Finding: The BPCU project amends the Zoning Code. As noted above in Findings 33 through 38,
the BPCU project is consistent with the guiding principles of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan. The
findings in this exhibit demonstrate how the BPCU amendments are consistent with the 2035
Comprehensive Plan, the Urban Growth Management Functional Plan, and the Statewide Planning
Goals. Metro, TriMet, and other state agencies received notice of the proposed BPCU
amendments from the 35-day DLCD notice and the City’s legislative notice. The City did not
receive any requests from other government agencies to modify the BPCU amendments.

Chapter 2: Community Involvement
Goal 2.A: Community involvement as a partnership. The City of Portland works together as a genuine
partner with all Portland communities and interests. The City promotes, builds, and maintains
relationships, and communicates with individuals, communities, neighborhoods, businesses,
organizations, institutions, and other governments to ensure meaningful community involvement in
planning and investment decisions.
Goal 2.B: Social justice and equity. The City of Portland seeks social justice by expanding choice and
opportunity for all community members, recognizing a special responsibility to identify and engage, as
genuine partners, under-served and under-represented communities in planning, investment,
implementation, and enforcement processes, particularly those with potential to be adversely
affected by the results of decisions. The City actively works to improve its planning and investment-
related decisions to achieve equitable distribution of burdens and benefits and address past injustices.
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 14

Goal 2.C: Value community wisdom and participation. Portland values and encourages community
and civic participation. The City seeks and considers community wisdom and diverse cultural
perspectives, and integrates them with technical analysis, to strengthen land use decisions.
Goal 2.D: Transparency and accountability. City planning and investment decision-making processes
are clear, open, and documented. Through these processes a diverse range of community interests are
heard and balanced. The City makes it clear to the community who is responsible for making decisions
and how community input is considered. Accountability includes monitoring and reporting outcomes.
Goal 2.E: Meaningful participation. Community members have meaningful opportunities to
participate in and influence all stages of planning and decision making. Public processes engage the
full diversity of affected community members, including under-served and under-represented
individuals and communities. The City will seek and facilitate the involvement of those potentially
affected by planning and decision making.
Goal 2.F: Accessible and effective participation. City planning and investment decision-making
processes are designed to be culturally accessible and effective. The City draws from acknowledged
best practices and uses a wide variety of tools, including those developed and recommended by
under-served and under-represented communities, to promote inclusive, collaborative, culturally-
specific, and robust community involvement.
Goal 2.G: Strong civic infrastructure. Civic institutions, organizations, and processes encourage active
and meaningful community involvement and strengthen the capacity of individuals and communities
to participate in planning processes and civic life.
40. Finding: The BPCU project meets Goals 2.A through 2.G for community involvement because the
project’s public engagement process provided opportunities for interested parties to comment on
and influence the recommended draft and the final decision before City Council.
Early concept development was informed by a variety of public input. At the beginning of the
process, a Stakeholder Advisory Group of volunteers with a variety of perspectives on bicycle
parking was convened. The Committee met seven times from February 2016 to October 2017 and
produced a set of recommendations. Early input into concept development was also collected
through an online survey and an online open house. Staff also did site visits and targeted
interviews in 2017 and 2018.
During the process of developing these amendments, the Discussion Draft, Proposed Draft and
Recommended Draft were posted to the project websites and advertised by email. The project
team conducted briefings with the PSC, district coalitions, City Council and community and
interest groups.
Electronic submission of testimony on the Proposed and Recommended Drafts was accepted, and
all testimony was made available in a searchable format online. Information about the process,
including decision-making points and opportunities for public comment, was posted on the BPS
and PBOT websites and updated regularly.
During project engagement staff worked intentionally to engage with communities of color, low-
income populations and other under-served groups. For example, project staff held a focus group
about the BPCU project with members of Andando en Bicicletas y Caminando, an advocacy group
in Cully, and had a number of one-on-one meetings with organizations that serve people that live
in affordable housing developments.
The public was provided opportunities to express concerns and suggest amendments in front of
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 15

the PSC. The amendments have been appropriately reviewed by the Planning and Sustainability
Commission and recommended to City Council. The PSC held a public hearing and heard testimony
on the amendments on January 22, 2019. The PSC deliberated and held work sessions on February
11 and 26, 2019. Testimony covered many issues including the need for more bicycle parking in
new buildings, whether long-term bicycle parking should be located in residential dwelling units,
the need for additional bicycle parking at schools and concerns about the impacts on small
development. In response to testimony, and guided by City goals and policies, the PSC adopted
several amendments.
The PSC voted on February 26, 2019 to recommend the proposal as amended to Portland City
Council for adoption.

Partners in decision making
Policy 2.1. Partnerships and coordination. Maintain partnerships and coordinate land use
engagement with:
2.1.a Individual community members.
2.1.b Communities of color, low‐income populations, Limited English Proficient (LEP)
communities, Native American communities, and other under-served and under-represented
communities.
2.1.c District coalitions, neighborhood associations, and business district associations as local
experts and communication channels for place-based projects.
2.1.d Businesses, unions, employees, and related organizations that reflect Portland’s diversity as
the center of regional economic and cultural activity.
2.1.e Community-based, faith-based, artistic and cultural, and interest-based non-profits,
organizations, and groups.
2.1.f Institutions, governments, and Sovereign tribes.
Policy 2.2. Broaden partnerships. Work with district coalitions, neighborhood associations, and
business district associations to increase participation and to help them reflect the diversity of the
people and institutions they serve. Facilitate greater communication and collaboration among district
coalitions, neighborhood associations, business district associations, culturally-specific organizations,
and community-based organizations.
41. Finding: The BPCU project meets policy 2.1 and 2.2 because staff worked to engage community
members, including district coalitions, bicycle advocacy groups, community groups, and affordable
housing organizations throughout the project process. Staff held presentations, sent email
engagement, had phone calls and set-up one-on-one meetings to increase participation on the
project. In instances when staff didn’t feel they got enough feedback, like for example, tenants of
multifamily housing, staff developed strategies, including an online survey specifically geared
towards tenants’ experience with bicycle parking at apartment buildings in Portland.
Environmental justice
Policy 2.3. Extend benefits. Ensure plans and investments promote environmental justice by
extending the community benefits associated with environmental assets, land use, and public
investments to communities of color, low-income populations, and other under-served or under-
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 16

represented groups impacted by the decision. Maximize economic, cultural, political, and
environmental benefits through ongoing partnerships.
Policy 2.4. Eliminate burdens. Ensure plans and investments eliminate associated disproportionate
burdens (e.g. adverse environmental, economic, or community impacts) for communities of color,
low-income populations, and other under-served or under-represented groups impacted by the
decision.
2.4.a Minimize or mitigate disproportionate burdens in cases where they cannot be eliminated.
2.4.b Use plans and investments to address disproportionate burdens of previous decisions.
42. Finding: The BPCU project meets policy 2.3 and 2.4 under Environmental Justice because during
project engagement staff worked intentionally to engage with communities of color, low-income
populations and other under-served groups. For example, project staff held a focus group about
the BPCU project with members of Andando en Bicicletas y Caminando, an advocacy group in
Cully, and had a number of one-on-one meetings with organizations that serve people that live in
affordable housing developments. This testimony was particularly important to demonstrate to
the Planning and Sustainability Commission the importance of bicycle parking for people living on
low-incomes, as a counterpoint to testimony that this project was only benefiting higher-income
families that live close to Central City.
Community assessment
Policy 2.8. Channels of communication. Maintain channels of communication among City Council, the
Planning and Sustainability Commission (PSC), project advisory committees, City staff, and community
members.
Policy 2.9. Community analysis. Collect and evaluate data, including community-validated population
data and information, to understand the needs, priorities, and trends and historical context affecting
different communities in Portland.
Policy 2.10. Community participation in data collection. Provide meaningful opportunities for
individuals and communities to be involved in inventories, mapping, data analysis, and the
development of alternatives.
43. Finding: The BPCU project meets the policies 2.8 through 2.10 because the public engagement
process provided opportunities for all interested parties to comment on and influence the
recommended draft and the final decision before City Council.
For example, the project team conducted briefings with the PSC, neighborhood associations, City
Council and community groups. Electronic submission of testimony on the Proposed and
Recommended Drafts were accepted, and all testimony was made available in a searchable format
online. Information about the process, including decision-making points and opportunities for
public comment, was posted on the website and updated regularly.
Transparency and accountability
Policy 2.12. Roles and responsibilities. Establish clear roles, rights, and responsibilities for participants
and decision makers in planning and investment processes. Address roles of City bureaus, elected
officials, and participants, including community and neighborhood leadership, business, organizations,
and individuals.
Policy 2.13. Project scope. Establish clear expectations about land use project sponsorship, purpose,
design, and how decision makers will use the process results.
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 17

Policy 2.14. Community influence. At each stage of the process, identify which elements of a planning
and investment process can be influenced or changed through community involvement. Clarify the
extent to which those elements can be influenced or changed.
Policy 2.15. Documentation and feedback. Provide clear documentation for the rationale supporting
decisions in planning and investment processes. Communicate to participants about the issues raised
in the community involvement process, how public input affected outcomes, and the rationale used to
make decisions.
44. Finding: The BPCU project meets policies 2.12 through 2.15 because the project, including the
legislative process, the project scope, roles and responsibilities related to the project and ways to
engage were clearly outlined in notices, documents and on the project website, with guidance on
how to testify to influence the Proposed Draft at the PSC, which amended the proposal. Then the
Recommended Draft was published with the opportunity to testify to the City Council for the
November 13, 2019 public hearing. The staff reports for both drafts include summaries of how the
draft changed from a previous iteration and why.
Throughout the process, staff contacted, met with, and coordinated with stakeholders to inform
them how to engage in the decision-making process, how the process was structured, and
additional opportunities to participate when such opportunities existed.
Electronic submission of testimony on the Proposed Draft was accepted, and all testimony was
made available in a searchable format online. Information about the process, including decision-
making points and opportunities for public comment, was posted on the website and updated
regularly.
Process design and evaluation
Policy 2.24. Representation. Facilitate participation of a cross-section of the full diversity of affected
Portlanders during planning and investment processes. This diversity includes individuals,
stakeholders, and communities represented by race, color, national origin, English proficiency, gender,
age, disability, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity, and source of income.
Policy 2.25. Early involvement. Improve opportunities for interested and affected community
members to participate early in planning and investment processes, including identifying and
prioritizing issues, needs, and opportunities; participating in process design; and recommending and
prioritizing projects and/or other types of implementation.
Policy 2.26. Verifying data. Use data, including community-validated population data, to guide
planning and investment processes and priority setting and to shape community involvement and
decision-making efforts.
Policy 2.27. Demographics. Identify the demographics of potentially affected communities when
initiating a planning or investment project.
Policy 2.28. Historical understanding. To better understand concerns and conditions when initiating a
project, research the history, culture, past plans, and other needs of the affected community,
particularly under-represented and under-served groups, and persons with limited English proficiency
(LEP). Review preliminary findings with members of the community who have institutional and
historical knowledge.
Policy 2.29. Project-specific needs. Customize community involvement processes to meet the needs
of those potentially affected by the planning or investment project. Use community involvement
techniques that fit the scope, character, and potential impact of the planning or investment decision
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 18

under consideration.
Policy 2.30. Culturally-appropriate processes. Consult with communities to design culturally-
appropriate processes to meet the needs of those affected by a planning or investment project.
Evaluate, use, and document creative and culturally-appropriate methods, tools, technologies, and
spaces to inform and engage people from under-served and under-represented groups about planning
or investment projects.
Policy 2.31. Innovative engagement methods. Develop and document innovative methods, tools, and
technologies for community involvement processes for plan and investment projects.
Policy 2.32. Inclusive participation beyond Portland residents. Design public processes for planning
and investment projects to engage affected and interested people who may not live in Portland such
as property owners, employees, employers, and students, among others, as practicable.
Policy 2.33. Inclusive participation in Central City planning. Design public processes for the Central
City that recognize its unique role as the region’s center. Engage a wide range of stakeholders from
the Central City and throughout the region including employees, employers, social service providers,
students, and visitors, as well as regional tourism, institutional, recreation, transportation, and
local/regional government representatives, as appropriate.
Policy 2.34. Accessibility. Ensure that community involvement processes for planning and investment
projects are broadly accessible in terms of location, time, and language, and that they support the
engagement of individuals with a variety of abilities and limitations on participation.
Policy 2.35. Participation monitoring. Evaluate and document participant demographics throughout
planning and investment processes to assess whether participation reflects the demographics of
affected communities. Adapt involvement practices and activities accordingly to increase effectiveness
at reaching targeted audiences.
Policy 2.36. Adaptability. Adapt community involvement processes for planning and investment
projects as appropriate to flexibly respond to changes in the scope and priority of the issues, needs,
and other factors that may affect the process.
Policy 2.37. Process evaluation. Evaluate each community involvement process for planning or
investment projects from both the City staff and participants’ perspectives, and consider feedback and
lessons learned to enhance future involvement efforts.
45. Finding: The BPCU project meets policies 2.24 through 2.37 because the project staff worked to
engage all possible stakeholders throughout the community engagement phase and made
adjustments when certain community groups and representatives were seemingly not
participating. For example, during the concept development stage, staff found that an online
survey was being filled out primarily by people in limited demographic categories. Given the
potential impact on low-income tenants, staff worked with the Portland Housing Bureau to do
more focused outreach with tenants to identify the challenges they experience associated with
bicycle parking.
During the Planning and Sustainability Commission Public Hearing the City arranged for a Spanish
interpreter to aid the members of Andando en Bicicletas y Caminando (ABC) in Cully in testifying.
There was Central City representation on the Stakeholder Advisory Committee.
Information design and development
Policy 2.38. Accommodation. Ensure accommodations to let individuals with disabilities participate in
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 19

administrative, quasi-judicial, and legislative land use decisions, consistent with federal regulations.
46. Finding:  The BPCU project meets policy 2.38 to ensure accommodations to let people with
disabilities participate throughout the legislative process because project staff did specific
outreach with organizations that serve people with disabilities and worked to provide
accommodation for people to participate at the PSC public hearing meeting.
Policy 2.39. Notification. Notify affected and interested community members and recognized
organizations about administrative, quasi-judicial, and legislative land use decisions with enough lead
time to enable effective participation. Consider notification to both property owners and renters.
Policy 2.40. Tools for effective participation. Provide clear and easy access to information about
administrative, quasi-judicial, and legislative land use decisions in multiple formats and through
technological advancements and other ways.
47. Finding:  The BPCU project meets policies 2.39 and 2.40 to provide notification and use effective
tools for effective participation because the City sent mailed and emailed legislative notice to a
variety of stakeholders that have requested notice of proposed land use changes, including
organizations that represent underrepresented communities. Subsequently, the City sent a
legislative notice to interested parties and people who testified to the PSC to inform them of the
opportunity to testify at the November 13, 2019 City Council public hearing. The project process
engaged individuals and organizations through email updates and notifications throughout the
process. A project website was maintained and regularly updated with relevant information.
Periodic project updates were provided via meeting appearances (project-specific meetings,
neighborhood associations, district coalitions, Development Review Advisory Committee, etc.) and
via email.
Policy 2.41. Limited English Proficiency (LEP). Ensure that limited English proficient (LEP) individuals
are provided meaningful access to information about administrative, quasi-judicial, and legislative
land use decisions, consistent with federal regulations.
48. Finding: The BPCU project meets policy 2.41 because staff worked to provide information about
the project in other languages and increase access to participating in the legislative process for
limited English proficient individuals. For example, during the PSC public hearing, staff worked
with the group Andando en Bicicletas y Caminando (ABC) in Cully to support members who wished
to testify in Spanish at the hearing with interpretation.
Chapter 3: Urban Form
GOAL 3.A: A city designed for people. Portland’s built environment is designed to serve the needs and
aspirations of all Portlanders, promoting prosperity, health, equity, and resiliency. New development,
redevelopment, and public investments reduce disparities and encourage social interaction to create a
healthy connected city.
49. Finding: The BPCU project meets Goal 3.A. The BPCU project requires provision of adequate
bicycle parking in new development, which supports bicycling, a low-cost, low-carbon
transportation option for all Portlanders. The project includes standards that support low-cost,
active transportation options which can provide tangible economic and health benefits to
Portlanders.
GOAL 3.B: A climate and hazard resilient urban form. Portland’s compact urban form, sustainable
building development practices, green infrastructure, and active transportation system reduce carbon
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 20

emissions, reduce natural hazard risks and impacts, and improve resilience to the effects of climate
change.
50. Finding: The BPCU project meets Goal 3.B. The BPCU project will increase the supply of bicycle
parking, which supports bicycling, a low-carbon, active transportation option. Promoting active
transportation is one of the key strategies to reduce carbon emissions from the transportation
sector.
GOAL 3.C: Focused growth. Household and employment growth is focused in the Central City and
other centers, corridors, and transit station areas, creating compact urban development in areas with
a high level of service and amenities, while allowing the relative stability of lower-density single-family
residential areas.
GOAL 3.D: A system of centers and corridors. Portland’s interconnected system of centers and
corridors provides diverse housing options and employment opportunities, robust multimodal
transportation connections, access to local services and amenities, and supports low-carbon complete,
healthy, and equitable communities.
GOAL 3.E: Connected public realm and open spaces. A network of parks, streets, City Greenways, and
other public spaces supports community interaction; connects neighborhoods, districts, and
destinations; and improves air, water, land quality, and environmental health.
GOAL 3.F: Employment districts. Portland supports job growth in a variety of employment districts to
maintain a diverse economy.
GOAL 3.G: Nature in the city. A system of habitat corridors weaves nature into the city, enhances
habitat connectivity, and preserves natural resources and the ecosystem services they provide.
51. Finding: The goals 3.C through 3.G do not apply because the BPCU project affects the requirement
of bicycle parking in new construction and does not amend or affect the urban form or where
development occurs in the city.
Chapter 4: Design and Development
Goal 4.A: Context-sensitive design and development. New development is designed to respond to
and enhance the distinctive physical, historic, and cultural qualities of its location, while
accommodating growth and change.
Goal 4.B: Historic and cultural resources. Historic and cultural resources are integral parts of an urban
environment that continue to evolve and are preserved.
52. Finding: The goals of 4.A and 4.B do not apply to the BPCU project because the project affects the
requirement of bicycle parking in new construction and do not amend or affect how new
development is designed to respond to historic or cultural qualities.
Goal 4.C: Human and environmental health. Neighborhoods and development are efficiently
designed and built to enhance human and environmental health: they protect safety and livability;
support local access to healthy food; limit negative impacts on water, hydrology, and air quality;
reduce carbon emissions; encourage active and sustainable design; protect wildlife; address urban
heat islands; and integrate nature and the built environment.
53. Finding: The BPCU project meets this goal because the project requires convenient, safe bicycle
parking in new construction, supporting the use of bicycling for recreation and transportation.
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 21

Bicycling is an active transportation mode that supports human health through physical activity
and environmental health because it is a low-emission mode.
Goal 4.D: Urban resilience. Buildings, streets, and open spaces are designed to ensure long-term
resilience and to adjust to changing demographics, climate, and economy, and withstand and recover
from natural disasters.
54. Finding: The goal 4.D does not apply to the BPCU project because the project affects the
requirement of bicycle parking in new construction and do not amend or affect how the building,
street or open space is designed to withstand natural disasters.
Context
Policy 4.1. Pattern areas. Encourage building and site designs that respect the unique built, natural,
historic, and cultural characteristics of Portland’s five pattern areas described in Chapter 3: Urban
Form.
55. Finding: The BPCU project meets this policy. The BPCU project stipulates the amount of required
bicycle parking based on Pattern Areas. The amendments expand the tiered approach in current
code and acknowledge that a one-size fits all approach does not necessarily work for development
across Portland. The amendments use the Transportation System Plan (TSP) target mode split
rates for the five different Pattern Areas when developing the required amount of bicycle parking
for each use category.
Policy 4.2. Community identity. Encourage the development of character-giving design features that
are responsive to place and the cultures of communities.
56. Finding: This policy does not apply because the BPCU project only affects the standards around
bicycle parking in new development and does not address the cultural design features of the
development.
Policy 4.3. Site and context. Encourage development that responds to and enhances the positive
qualities of site and context — the neighborhood, the block, the public realm, and natural features.
57. Finding: The BPCU project meets this policy. The BPCU project considered the site context and use
category when developing the amount of required bicycle parking. For example, the proposal used
data points like average square footage per employee (or employee density) and visitation rates
from Transportation System Development Charges, both of which were specific to the specific use
category of development.
Policy 4.4. Natural features and green infrastructure. Integrate natural and green infrastructure such
as trees, green spaces, ecoroofs, gardens, green walls, and vegetated stormwater management
systems, into the urban environment. Encourage stormwater facilities that are designed to be a
functional and attractive element of public spaces, especially in centers and corridors.
Policy 4.5. Pedestrian-oriented design. Enhance the pedestrian experience throughout Portland
through public and private development that creates accessible, safe, and attractive places for all
those who walk and/or use wheelchairs or other mobility devices.
Policy 4.6. Street orientation. Promote building and site designs that enhance the pedestrian
experience with windows, entrances, pathways, and other features that provide connections to the
street environment.
Policy 4.7. Development and public spaces. Guide development to help create high-quality public
places and street environments while considering the role of adjacent development in framing,
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 22

shaping, and activating the public space of streets and urban parks.
Policy 4.9. Transitional urbanism. Encourage temporary activities and structures in places that are
transitioning to urban areas to promote job creation, entrepreneurship, active streets, and human
interaction.
58. Finding: The policies 4.4 through 4.9 do not apply because the BPCU project only affects the
standards around bicycle parking in new development and do not address context like natural
features, pedestrian-oriented design, traditional urbanism and public spaces that these policies
address.
Health and safety
Policy 4.10. Design for active living. Encourage development and building and site design that
promotes a healthy level of physical activity in daily life.
59. Finding: The BPCU project meets policy 4.10 because the project requires convenient, safe bicycle
parking in new construction, supporting the use of bicycling, an active transportation mode, for
recreation and transportation. Regular physical activity, including the use of active transportation,
helps improve overall health.
Policy 4.11. Access to light and air. Provide for public access to light and air by managing and shaping
the height and mass of buildings while accommodating urban-scale development.
Policy 4.12. Privacy and solar access. Encourage building and site designs that consider privacy and
solar access for residents and neighbors while accommodating urban-scale development.
Policy 4.13. Crime-preventive design. Encourage building, site, and public infrastructure design
approaches that help prevent crime.
60. Finding: The BPCU project meets policy 4.13 because the BPCU project removed a number of
current code provisions that led to less secure bicycle parking, and focused the security standards
on locked, restricted access rooms or spaces for long-term bicycle parking.
Policy 4.14. Fire prevention and safety. Encourage building and site design that improves fire
prevention, safety, and reduces seismic risks.
61. Finding: The policies 4.11, 4.12 and 4.14 do not apply because the BPCU project only affects the
standards around bicycle parking in new development and do not address design items like access to
air, solar or crime and fire prevention.
Residential areas
Policy 4.15. Residential area continuity and adaptability. Encourage more housing choices to
accommodate a wider diversity of family sizes, incomes, and ages, and the changing needs of
households over time. Allow adaptive reuse of existing buildings, the creation of accessory dwelling
units, and other arrangements that bring housing diversity that is compatible with the general scale
and patterns of residential areas.
Policy 4.16. Scale and patterns. Encourage design and development that complements the general
scale, character, and natural landscape features of neighborhoods. Consider building forms, scale,
street frontage relationships, setbacks, open space patterns, and landscaping. Allow for a range of
architectural styles and expression.
Policy 4.19. Resource efficient and healthy residential design and development. Support resource
efficient and healthy residential design and development.
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 23

62. Finding: The policies 4.15 through 4.19 do not apply because the BPCU project only affects the
standards around bicycle parking in new development and do not address the design elements of
development within residential areas. Additionally, the bicycle parking standards don’t apply to
residential sites that have fewer than 5 units.
Design and development of centers and corridors
Policy 4.20. Walkable scale. Focus services and higher-density housing in the core of centers to
support a critical mass of demand for commercial services and more walkable access for customers.
Policy 4.21. Street environment. Encourage development in centers and corridors to include
amenities that create a pedestrian-oriented environment and provide places for people to sit, spend
time, and gather.
Policy 4.22. Relationship between building height and street size. Encourage development in centers
and corridors that is responsive to street space width, thus allowing taller buildings on wider streets.
63. Finding: The policies 4.20 through 4.22 do not apply in that the BPCU project only affects the
standards around bicycle parking in new development and do not address the design and
development of the public pedestrian realm.

Policy 4.23. Design for pedestrian and bicycle access. Provide accessible sidewalks, high-quality
bicycle access, and frequent street connections and crossings in centers and corridors.
64. Finding: The BPCU project meets policy 4.23 in that the project addresses short-term bicycle
parking requirements that must be located outside of a building and place a requirement that these
racks be located in an area that is reachable by an accessible route.
Policy 4.24. Drive-through facilities. Prohibit drive through facilities in the Central City, and limit new
development of new ones in the Inner Ring Districts and centers to support a pedestrian-oriented
environment.
Policy 4.25. Residential uses on busy streets. Improve the livability of places and streets with high
motor vehicle volumes. Encourage landscaped front setbacks, street trees, and other design
approaches to buffer residents from street traffic.
Policy 4.26. Active gathering places. Locate public squares, plazas, and other gathering places in
centers and corridors to provide places for community activity and social connections. Encourage
location of businesses, services, and arts adjacent to these spaces that relate to and promote the use
of the space.
Policy 4.27. Protect defining features. Protect and enhance defining places and features of centers
and corridors, including landmarks, natural features, and historic and cultural resources.
Policy 4.28. Historic buildings in centers and corridors. Protect and encourage the restoration and
improvement of historic resources in centers and corridors.
Policy 4.29. Public art. Encourage new development and public places to include design elements and
public art that contribute to the distinct identities of centers and corridors, and that highlight the
history and diverse cultures of neighborhoods.
65. Finding: The policies 4.24 through 4.29 do not apply because the BPCU project only affects the
standards for bicycle parking within new development and do not address the design elements in
the public right of way that are addressed in these policies.
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 24

Transitions
Policy 4.30. Scale transitions. Create transitions in building scale in locations where higher-density
and higher-intensity development is adjacent to smaller-scale single-dwelling zoning. Ensure that new
high-density and large-scale infill development adjacent to single dwelling zones incorporates design
elements that soften transitions in scale and limit light and privacy impacts on adjacent residents.
Policy 4.31. Land use transitions. Improve the interface between non-residential uses and residential
uses in areas where commercial or employment uses are adjacent to residentially-zoned land.
Policy 4.32. Industrial edge. Protect non-industrially zoned parcels from the adverse impacts of
facilities and uses on industrially zoned parcels through the use of a variety of tools, including but not
limited to vegetation, physical separation, land acquisition, and insulation to establish buffers
between industrial sanctuaries and adjacent residential or mixed use areas to protect both the
viability of long-term industrial operations and the livability of adjacent areas.
66. Finding: The policies 4.30 through 4.32 do not apply because the BPCU project only affects the
standards for bicycle parking in new development and do not address the transitional design
elements.
Off-site impacts
Policy 4.33. Off-site impacts. Limit and mitigate public health impacts, such as odor, noise, glare, light
pollution, air pollutants, and vibration that public facilities, land uses, or development may have on
adjacent residential or industrial uses, and on significant fish and wildlife habitat areas. Pay particular
attention to limiting and mitigating impacts to under-served and under-represented communities.
Policy 4.34. Auto-oriented facilities, uses, and exterior displays. Minimize the adverse impacts of
highways, auto-oriented uses, vehicle area, drive-through areas, signage, and exterior display and
storage areas on adjacent residential uses.
Policy 4.35. Noise impacts. Encourage building and landscape design and land use patterns that limit
and/ or mitigate negative noise impacts to building users and residents, particularly in areas near
freeways, regional truckways, major city traffic streets, and other sources of noise.
Policy 4.36. Air quality impacts. Encourage building and landscape design and land use patterns that
limit and/ or mitigate negative air quality impacts to building users and residents, particularly in areas
near freeways, regional truckways, high traffic streets, and other sources of air pollution.
Policy 4.37. Diesel emissions. Encourage best practices to reduce diesel emissions and related impacts
when considering land use and public facilities that will increase truck or train traffic. Advocate for
state legislation to accelerate replacement of older diesel engines.
Policy 4.38. Light pollution. Encourage lighting design and practices that reduce the negative impacts
of light pollution, including sky glow, glare, energy waste, impacts to public health and safety,
disruption of ecosystems, and hazards to wildlife.
Policy 4.39. Airport noise. Partner with the Port of Portland to require compatible land use
designations and development within the noise-affected area of Portland International Airport, while
providing disclosure of the level of aircraft noise and mitigating the potential impact of noise within
the affected area.
Policy 4.40. Telecommunication facility impacts. Mitigate the visual impact of telecommunications
and broadcast facilities near residentially-zoned areas through physical design solutions.
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 25

67. Finding: The policies 4.33 through 4.40 do not apply because the BPCU project only affects the
standards around bicycle parking in new development and do not create or address the off-site
impacts of development like noise, air quality, diesel emissions, light pollution and airport noise.
Scenic resources
Policy 4.41. Scenic resources. Enhance and celebrate Portland’s scenic resources to reinforce local
identity, histories, and cultures and contribute toward wayfinding throughout the city. Consider views
of mountains, hills, buttes, rivers, streams, wetlands, parks, bridges, the Central City skyline, buildings,
roads, art, landmarks, or other elements valued for their aesthetic appearance or symbolism.
Policy 4.42. Scenic resource protection. Protect and manage designated significant scenic resources
by maintaining scenic resource inventories, protection plans, regulations, and other tools.
Policy 4.43. Vegetation management. Maintain regulations and other tools for managing vegetation
in a manner that preserves or enhances designated significant scenic resources.
Policy 4.44. Building placement, height, and massing. Maintain regulations and other tools related to
building placement, height, and massing in order to preserve designated significant scenic resources.
Policy 4.45. Future development. Encourage new public and private development to create new
public viewpoints providing views of Portland’s rivers, bridges, surrounding mountains, hills and
buttes, and Central City skyline, and other landmark features.
68. Finding: The policies 4.41 through 4.45 do not apply because the BPCU project only affects the
standards around bicycle parking in new development and do not address scenic resources or
management.
Historic and cultural resources
Policy 4.46. Historic and cultural resource protection. Within statutory requirements for owner
consent, identify, protect, and encourage the use and rehabilitation of historic buildings, places, and
districts that contribute to the distinctive character and history of Portland’s evolving urban
environment.
Policy 4.47. State and federal historic resource support. Advocate for state and federal policies,
programs, and legislation that would enable stronger historic resource designations, protections, and
rehabilitation programs.
Policy 4.48. Continuity with established patterns. Encourage development that fills in vacant and
underutilized gaps within the established urban fabric, while preserving and complementing historic
resources.
Policy 4.49. Resolution of conflicts in historic districts. Adopt and periodically update design
guidelines for unique historic districts. Refine base zoning in historic districts to take into account the
character of the historic resources in the district.
Policy 4.50. Demolition. Protect historic resources from demolition. When demolition is necessary or
appropriate, provide opportunities for public comment and encourage pursuit of alternatives to
demolition or other actions that mitigate for the loss.
Policy 4.51. City-owned historic resources. Maintain City-owned historic resources with necessary
upkeep and repair.
Policy 4.52. Historic Resources Inventory. Within statutory limitations, regularly update and maintain
Portland’s Historic Resources Inventory to inform historic and cultural resource preservation
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 26

strategies.
Policy 4.53. Preservation equity. Expand historic resources inventories, regulations, and programs to
encourage historic preservation in areas and in communities that have not benefited from past
historic preservation efforts, especially in areas with high concentrations of under-served and/or
under-represented people.
Policy 4.54. Cultural diversity. Work with Portland’s diverse communities to identify and preserve
places of historic and cultural significance.
Policy 4.55. Cultural and social significance. Encourage awareness and appreciation of both beautiful
and ordinary historic places and their roles in enhancing community identity and sense of place.
Policy 4.56. Community structures. Encourage the adaptive reuse of historic community structures,
such as former schools, meeting halls, and places of worship, for arts, cultural, and community uses
that continue their role as anchors for community and culture.
Policy 4.57. Economic viability. Provide options for financial and regulatory incentives to allow for the
productive, reasonable, and adaptive reuse of historic resources.
Policy 4.58. Archaeological resources. Protect and preserve archaeological resources, especially those
sites and objects associated with Native American cultures. Work in partnership with Sovereign tribes,
Native American communities, and the state to protect against disturbance to Native American
archaeological resources.
69. Finding: The policies 4.46 through 4.58 do not apply because the BPCU project only affects the
standards around bicycle parking in new development and do not impact or address historic and
cultural resources in the standards.
Public art
Policy 4.59. Public art and development. Create incentives for public art as part of public and private
development projects.
70. Finding: This policy does not apply because the BPCU project only affects the standards around
bicycle parking in new development and are not significant in size or scale to allow for inclusion of
public art.
Resource-efficient design and development
Policy 4.60. Rehabilitation and adaptive reuse. Encourage rehabilitation and adaptive reuse of
buildings, especially those of historic or cultural significance, to conserve natural resources, reduce
waste, and demonstrate stewardship of the built environment.
Policy 4.61. Compact housing. Promote the development of compact, space- and energy-efficient
housing types that minimize use of resources such as smaller detached homes or accessory dwellings
and attached homes.
Policy 4.62. Seismic and energy retrofits. Promote seismic and energy-efficiency retrofits of historic
buildings and other existing structures to reduce carbon emissions, save money, and improve public
safety.
Policy 4.63. Life cycle efficiency. Encourage use of technologies, techniques, and materials in building
design, construction, and removal that result in the least environmental impact over the life cycle of
the structure.
Policy 4.64. Deconstruction. Encourage salvage and reuse of building elements when demolition is
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 27

necessary or appropriate.
Policy 4.65. Materials and practices. Encourage use of natural, resource-efficient, recycled, recycled
content, and non-toxic building materials and energy-efficient building practices.
Policy 4.66. Water use efficiency. Encourage site and building designs that use water efficiently and
manage stormwater as a resource.
Policy 4.67. Optimizing benefits. Provide mechanisms to evaluate and optimize the range of benefits
from solar and renewable resources, tree canopy, ecoroofs, and building design.
Policy 4.68. Energy efficiency. Encourage and promote energy efficiency significantly beyond the
Statewide Building Code and the use of solar and other renewable resources in individual buildings
and at a district scale.
71. Finding: The policies 4.60 through 4.68 do not apply because the BPCU project only affects the
standards around bicycle parking in new development and do not address resource efficient
materials, design and development.
Policy 4.69. Reduce carbon emissions. Encourage a development pattern that minimizes carbon
emissions from building and transportation energy use.
72. Finding: The BPCU project meets policy 4.69 to encourage development elements that minimize
carbon emissions from transportation energy use because the project requires convenient, safe
bicycle parking in new construction, supporting the use of bicycling for recreation and
transportation. Bicycling is a zero-emission transportation mode, and when people are able to
easily access bicycle storage, per the Recommended Draft Report, they may choose to use bicycles
for trips instead of using higher-emission modes.
Policy 4.70. District energy systems. Encourage and remove barriers to the development and
expansion of low-carbon heating and cooling systems that serve multiple buildings or a broader
district.
Policy 4.71. Ecodistricts. Encourage ecodistricts, where multiple partners work together to achieve
sustainability and resource efficiency goals at a district scale.
Policy 4.72. Energy-producing development. Encourage and promote development that uses
renewable resources, such as solar, wind, and water to generate power on-site and to contribute to
the energy grid.
73. Finding: The policies 4.70 through 4.72 do not apply because the BPCU project only affects the
standards around bicycle parking in new development and do not address resource efficient
materials, design and development.
Designing with nature
Policy 4.73. Design with nature. Encourage design and site development practices that enhance, and
avoid the degradation of, watershed health and ecosystem services and that incorporate trees and
vegetation.
Policy 4.74. Flexible development options. Encourage flexibility in the division of land, the siting and
design of buildings, and other improvements to reduce the impact of development on
environmentally-sensitive areas and to retain healthy native and beneficial vegetation and trees.
Policy 4.75. Low-impact development and best practices. Encourage use of low-impact development,
habitat-friendly development, bird-friendly design, and green infrastructure.
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 28

Policy 4.76. Impervious surfaces. Limit use of and strive to reduce impervious surfaces and associated
impacts on hydrologic function, air and water quality, habitat connectivity, tree canopy, and urban
heat island effects.
Policy 4.77. Hazards to wildlife. Encourage building, lighting, site, and infrastructure design and
practices that provide safe fish and wildlife passage, and reduce or mitigate hazards to birds, bats, and
other wildlife.
Policy 4.78. Access to nature. Promote equitable, safe, and well-designed physical and visual access to
nature for all Portlanders, while also maintaining the functions and values of significant natural
resources, fish, and wildlife. Provide access to major natural features, including:
• Water bodies such as the Willamette and Columbia rivers, Smith and Bybee Lakes, creeks,
streams, and sloughs.
• Major topographic features such as the West Hills, Mt. Tabor, and the East Buttes.
• Natural areas such as Forest Park and Oaks Bottom.
74. Finding: The policies 4.73 through 4.78 do not apply because the BPCU project impact only the
standards around bicycle parking for new development and does not affect the way new
development interacts with the natural environment.
Hazard-resilient design
Policy 4.79. Natural hazards and climate change risks and impacts. Limit development in or near
areas prone to natural hazards, using the most current hazard and climate change-related information
and maps.
Policy 4.80. Geological hazards. Evaluate slope and soil characteristics, including liquefaction
potential, landslide hazards, and other geologic hazards.
Policy 4.81. Disaster-resilient development. Encourage development and site-management
approaches that reduce the risks and impacts of natural disasters or other major disturbances and
that improve the ability of people, wildlife, natural systems, and property to withstand and recover
from such events.
Policy 4.82. Portland Harbor facilities. Reduce natural hazard risks to critical public and private energy
and transportation facilities in the Portland Harbor.
Policy 4.83. Urban heat islands. Encourage development, building, landscaping, and infrastructure
design that reduce urban heat island effects.
Policy 4.84. Planning and disaster recovery. Facilitate effective disaster recovery by providing
recommended updates to land use designations and development codes, in preparation for natural
disasters.
75. Finding: The policies 4.79 through 4.84 do not apply because the BPCU project impacts only the
standards around bicycle parking for new development and do not affect the hazard resiliency of
new development.
Healthy food
Policy 4.85. Grocery stores and markets in centers. Facilitate the retention and development of
grocery stores, neighborhood-based markets, and farmers markets offering fresh produce in centers.
Provide adequate land supply to accommodate a full spectrum of grocery stores catering to all
socioeconomic groups and providing groceries at all levels of affordability.
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 29

Policy 4.86. Neighborhood food access. Encourage small, neighborhood-based retail food
opportunities, such as corner markets, food co-ops, food buying clubs, and community-supported
agriculture pickup/ drop-off sites, to fill in service gaps in food access across the city.
Policy 4.87. Growing food. Increase opportunities to grow food for personal consumption, donated,
sales, and educational purposes.
Policy 4.88. Access to community gardens. Ensure that community gardens are allowed in areas close
to or accessible via transit to people living in areas zone for mixed-use or multi-dwelling development,
where residents have few opportunities to grow food in yards.
76. Finding: The policies 4.85 through 4.88 do not apply because the BPCU project impacts the
standards around bicycle parking for new development and does not address the availability of or
access to healthy food.
Chapter 5: Housing
Goal 5.A: Housing diversity. Portlanders have access to high-quality affordable housing that
accommodates their needs, preferences, and financial capabilities in terms of different types, tenures,
density, sizes, costs, and locations.
Goal 5.B: Equitable access to housing. Portland ensures equitable access to housing, making a special
effort to remove disparities in housing access for people with disabilities, people of color, low-income
households, diverse household types, and older adults.
77. Finding: The Goals 5.A. and 5.B. do not apply because the BPCU project impacts the standards
around bicycle parking for new development and does not address programs related to access to
affordable housing developments.
Goal 5.C: Healthy connected city. Portlanders live in safe, healthy housing that provides convenient
access to jobs and to goods and services that meet daily needs. This housing is connected to the rest
of the city and region by safe, convenient, and affordable multimodal transportation.
78. Finding: The BPCU project meets this goal. The BPCU project requires convenient, safe bicycle
parking in new construction, supporting the use of bicycling for recreation and transportation.
Bicycling is an affordable, active transportation mode, and when it is easier to bicycle, Portlanders
can benefit from being able to choose bicycling over other modes and participate in affordable
multimodal transportation.
Goal 5.D: Affordable housing. Portland has an adequate supply of affordable housing units to meet
the needs of residents vulnerable to increasing housing costs.
79. Finding: The BPCU project meets this goal. The BPCU project requires the provision of safe,
convenient, accessible bicycle parking, making it easier for people to choose to use bicycles for
transportation. Bicycling is an affordable mode of transportation, and the use of bicycles can
reduce a household’s combined housing and transportation costs.
Project staff worked to ensure the amendments were clear and objective and do not cause
unreasonable cost or delay in providing needed housing. For example, staff in collaboration with
DECA Architecture, conducted a Spatial and Economic Study of the BPCU amendment proposals in
the Discussion Draft. Details on the analysis can be found in the Appendices. The Study found that
the biggest impact of the BPCU project were on small sites (5,000 sq. ft.) where space is limited to
accommodate adequate bicycle parking. Staff worked with the Portland Housing Bureau (PHB) to
add a new specific use to the Group Living use category to allow a separate minimum bicycle
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 30

parking amount for restricted-tenancy affordable housing developments that meet the income
restrictions of the PHB.  Further, the PSC adopted several amendments to address these small site
constraints, including, not requiring any bicycle parking for sites with 4 or fewer units and for sites
with up to 12 units, 100 percent of long-term bicycle parking can be provided in dwelling units, as
opposed to using limited space outside the unit for bicycle parking.
Goal 5.E: High-performance housing. Portland residents have access to resource-efficient and high-
performance housing for people of all abilities and income levels.
80. Finding: This Goal does not apply because the BPCU project impacts the standards around bicycle
parking for new development and does not address programs related resource-efficient and high-
performance housing.
Diverse and expanding housing supply
Policy 5.1. Housing supply. Maintain sufficient residential development capacity to accommodate
Portland’s projected share of regional household growth.
Policy 5.2. Housing growth. Strive to capture at least 25 percent of the seven-county region’s
residential growth (Multnomah, Washington, Clackamas, Yamhill, Columbia, Clark, and Skamania
counties).
Policy 5.3. Housing potential. Evaluate plans and investments for their impact on housing capacity,
particularly the impact on the supply of housing units that can serve low- and moderate-income
households and identify opportunities to meet future demand.
Policy 5.4. Housing types. Encourage new and innovative housing types that meet the evolving needs
of Portland households, and expand choices in all neighborhoods. These housing types include but are
not limited to single-dwelling units; multi-dwelling units; accessory dwelling units; small units; pre-
fabricated homes such as manufactured, modular, and mobile homes; co-housing; and clustered
housing/ clustered services.
Policy 5.5 Housing in centers. Apply zoning in and around centers that allow for and supports a
diversity of housing that can accommodate a broad range of households, including multi-dwelling and
family-friendly housing options.
Policy 5.6 Middle housing. Enable and encourage development of middle housing. This includes multi-
unit or clustered residential buildings that provide relatively smaller, less expensive units; more units;
and a scale transition between the core of the mixed-use center and surrounding single family areas.
Where appropriate, apply zoning that would allow this within a quarter mile of designated centers,
corridors with frequent service transit, high capacity transit stations, and within the Inner Ring around
the Central City.
Policy 5.7. Adaptable housing. Encourage adaption of existing housing and the development of new
housing that can be adapted in the future to accommodate the changing variety of household types.
81. Finding: The policies 5.1 through 5.7 do not apply because the BPCU project impacts the standards
around bicycle parking in new development and does not address the diversity and supply of
housing in Portland.
Housing access
Policy 5.10. Coordinate with fair housing programs. Foster inclusive communities, overcome
disparities in access to community assets, and enhance housing choice for people in protected classes
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 31

throughout the city by coordinating plans and investments to affirmatively further fair housing.
Policy 5.11 Remove barriers. Remove potential regulatory barriers to housing choice for people in
protected classes to ensure freedom of choice in housing type, tenure, and location.
82. Finding: The policies 5.10 and 5.11 do not apply because the BPCU project impacts the standards
for bicycle parking in new development and does not include standards that address fair housing
programs or regulatory processes for people accessing housing.
Policy 5.12 Impact analysis. Evaluate plans and investments, significant new infrastructure, and
significant new development to identify potential disparate impacts on housing choice, access, and
affordability for protected classes and low-income households. Identify and implement strategies to
mitigate the anticipated impacts.
83. Finding: The BPCU project meets this policy. Staff worked to ensure the amendments limit impact
on providing affordable housing. For example, staff in collaboration with DECA Architecture,
conducted a Spatial and Economic Study of the BPCU amendment proposals in the Discussion
Draft. Details on the analysis can be found in the Appendices. The Study found that the biggest
impact of the BPCU project were on small sites (5,000 sq. ft.) where space is limited to
accommodate adequate bicycle parking. Staff worked with the Portland Housing Bureau (PHB) to
add a new specific use to the Group Living use category to allow a separate minimum bicycle
parking amount for restricted-tenancy affordable housing developments that meet the income
restrictions of the PHB.  Further, the PSC adopted several amendments to address these small site
constraints, including, not requiring any bicycle parking for sites with 4 or fewer units and for sites
with up to 12 units, 100 percent of long-term bicycle parking can be provided in dwelling units, as
opposed to use limited space outside the unit for bicycle parking.
84.  Finding: One of the major themes of the BPCU project, as identified in the Stakeholder Advisory
Committee’s Guiding Principles (see Recommended Draft Section III), was Accessible and
Convenient Bicycle Parking that accommodates users of all ages and all abilities as well as a variety
of different types of bicycles. This principle led to the inclusion of bicycle parking standards that
require the provision of bicycle parking spaces for larger bicycles (including, but not limited to,
tricycle and handcycles) in developments that have more than 20 required long-term bicycle
parking spaces.
Additionally, the BPCU project made changes to the purpose statement to be explicit that the
standards are intended to allow for a variety of bicycle types, which serve people of differing
abilities.
85. Finding: One of the most discussed topics related to the BPCU project is regarding the placement
of required long-term bicycle parking in apartment dwelling units. Staff, the Planning and
Sustainability Commission and City Council heard considerable testimony from users and people
that live in apartments about the poor placement of racks by developers and designers. Bike racks
are being placed in back bedrooms, in awkward spaces in the living room, like over couches, and in
other unusable locations within the unit. Additionally, users have shared the challenges with
carrying wet, muddy bikes through their apartments and losing security deposits due to the
damage caused by having their bicycle in the unit.
On the other hand, developers have shared challenges with the spatial demands to provide bike
parking spaces outside of dwelling units, especially causing pinch points on smaller projects.
Amendments were made at the Planning and Sustainability Commission to address the usability
challenges and to reduce impacts on development:
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 32

• No bicycle parking is required for sites with 4 units or less.
• For any residential project, 50% of the required long-term bicycle parking can
be placed in unit.
• For small sites – sites with 12 units or less, 100% of required bicycle parking can
be located in the dwelling unit. This mitigates the potential spatial impacts on
the smaller, constrained sites.
The Planning and Sustainability Commission did adopt design standards to keep bikes close to
the front door in a designated space. These design standards are really a result of balancing the
feedback and potential impact on users, developers and City Staff that must review submitted
plans.

Policy 5.13. Housing stability. Coordinate plans and investments with programs that prevent
avoidable, involuntary evictions and foreclosures.
Policy 5.14. Preserve communities. Encourage plans and investments to protect and/or restore the
socioeconomic diversity and cultural stability of established communities.
86. Finding: The policies 5.13 and 5.14 do not apply because the BPCU project impacts the standards
for bicycle parking in new development and does not include standards that address housing
stability.
Policy 5.15. Gentrification/ displacement risk. Evaluate plans and investments, significant new
infrastructure, and significant new development for the potential to increase housing costs for, or
cause displacement of communities of color, low- and moderate-income households, and renters.
Identify and implement strategies to mitigate the anticipated impacts.
87. Finding: The BPCU project meets this policy. The BPCU project will increase the supply of bicycle
parking in all new types of development. Bicycle parking is integral in supporting people biking and
biking is a low-cost, transportation option for all Portlanders. By spending less on transportation,
individuals and households have more to spend on housing and other needs. While the project did
not conduct a displacement analysis, staff in collaboration with DECA Architecture, conducted a
Spatial and Economic Study of the BPCU amendment proposals in the Discussion Draft. Details on
the analysis can be found in the Appendices. The Study found that the biggest impact of the BPCU
project were on small sites (5,000 sq. ft.) where space is limited to accommodate adequate bicycle
parking. The PSC adopted several amendments to address these small site constraints, including,
not requiring any bicycle parking for sites with 4 or fewer units and for sites with up to 12 units,
100 percent of long-term bicycle parking can be provided in dwelling units, as opposed to use
limited space outside the unit for bicycle parking and reducing higher value space within the
project (i.e. units or commercial space).
Additionally, the BPCU project sets standards for development across the city, but the project sets
a tiered system for the required amounts. The tiered approach accounts for the differences in bike
use and thus bike parking demand in Portland and parallels the tiered approach in the
Transportation System Plan to set target mode share rates for the different pattern areas.
Finally, in testimony at the Planning and Sustainability Commission, the City heard the strong
desire that the BPCU project not develop separate (or reduced) standards for affordable housing
projects, because that will result in increased inequitable access to active transportation modes.
Through an amendment Planning and Sustainability Commission removed existing standards that
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 33

set a different level of allowable in-unit bicycle parking for affordable housing projects, and
instead, made the standard apply to all development.
Policy 5.16. Involuntary displacement. When plans and investments are expected to create
neighborhood change, limit the involuntary displacement of those who are under-served and under-
represented. Use public investments and programs, and coordinate with nonprofit housing
organizations (such as land trusts and housing providers) to create permanently-affordable housing
and to mitigate the impacts of market pressures that cause involuntary displacement.
Policy 5.17. Land banking. Support and coordinate with community organizations to hold land in
reserve for affordable housing, as an anti-displacement tool, and for other community development
purposes.
Policy 5.18. Rebuild communities. Coordinate plans and investments with programs that enable
communities impacted by involuntary displacement to maintain social and cultural connections, and
re-establish a stable presence and participation in the impacted neighborhoods.
Policy 5.19. Aging in place. Encourage a range of housing options and supportive environments to
enable older adults to remain in their communities as their needs change.
88. Finding: The policies 5.16 through 5.19 do not apply because the BPCU project impacts the
standards for bicycle parking in new development and does not include standards that address
creating affordable housing, land banking or aging in place.
Housing location
Policy 5.20. Coordinate housing needs in high-poverty areas. Meet the housing needs of under-
served and under-represented populations living in high-poverty areas by coordinating plans and
investments with housing programs.
Policy 5.21. Access to opportunities. Improve equitable access to active transportation, jobs, open
spaces, high-quality schools, and supportive services and amenities in areas with high concentrations
of under-served and under-represented populations and an existing supply of affordable housing.
Policy 5.22. New development in opportunity areas. Locate new affordable housing in areas that
have high/medium levels of opportunity in terms of access to active transportation, jobs, open spaces,
high-quality schools, and supportive services and amenities. See Figure 5-1 – Housing Opportunity
Map.
Policy 5.23. Higher-density housing. Locate higher-density housing, including units that are affordable
and accessible, in and around centers to take advantage of the access to active transportation, jobs,
open spaces, schools, and various services and amenities.
Policy 5.24. Impact of housing on schools. Evaluate plans and investments for the effect of housing
development on school enrollment, financial stability, and student mobility. Coordinate with school
districts to ensure plans are aligned with school facility plans.
89. Finding: The policies 5.20 through 5.24 do not apply because the BPCU project impacts the
standards for bicycle parking in new development and does not affect the location of affordable
housing.
Housing affordability
Policy 5.25. Housing preservation. Preserve and produce affordable housing to meet needs that are
not met by the private market by coordinating plans and investments with housing providers and
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 34

organizations.
Policy 5.26. Regulated affordable housing target. Strive to produce at least 10,000 new regulated
affordable housing units citywide by 2035 that will be affordable to households in the 0-80 percent
MFI bracket.
Policy 5.27. Funding plan. Encourage development or financial or regulatory mechanisms to achieve
the regulated affordable housing target set forth for 2035.
Policy 5.28. Inventory of regulated affordable housing. Coordinate periodic inventories of the supply
of regulated affordable housing in the four-county (Clackamas, Clark, Multnomah and Washington)
region with Metro.
Policy 5.29. Permanently-affordable housing. Increase the supply of permanently-affordable housing,
including both rental and homeownership opportunities.
90. Finding: The policies 5.25 through 5.29 do not apply because the BPCU project impacts the
standards for bicycle parking in new development and does not include standards that impact the
city meeting its housing targets or taking inventory of regulated affordable housing.
Policy 5.30. Housing cost burden. Evaluate plans and investments for their impact on household cost,
and consider ways to reduce the combined cost of housing, utilities, and/or transportation. Encourage
energy-efficiency investments to reduce overall housing costs.
91. Finding: The BPCU project meets this goal. The BPCU project requires the provision of safe,
convenient, accessible bicycle parking, making it easier for people to choose to use bicycles for
transportation. Bicycling is an affordable mode of transportation, and the use of bicycles can
reduce a household’s combined housing and transportation costs.
92. Finding: Project staff worked to ensure the amendments were clear and objective and do not
cause unreasonable cost or delay in providing needed housing.  The BPCU project supports
reducing overall household costs by supporting low-cost, low-carbon transportation options for all
Portlanders. Transportation is the second highest household cost and owning a car can cost a
family approximately $8,500 a year. The project supports low-cost, active transportation options
which can provide tangible economic benefits to individuals and households across Portland.
Policy 5.31. Household prosperity. Facilitate expanding the variety of types and sizes of affordable
housing units, and do so in locations that provide low-income households with greater access to
convenient transit and transportation, education and training opportunities, the Central City,
industrial districts, and other employment areas.
Policy 5.33. Central City affordable housing. Encourage the preservation and production of affordable
housing in the Central City to take advantage of the area’s unique concentration of active
transportation access, jobs, open spaces, and supportive services and amenities.
Policy 5.34. Affordable housing resources. Pursue a variety of funding sources and mechanisms
including new financial and regulatory tools to preserve and develop housing units and various
assistance programs for households whose needs are not met by the private market.
Policy 5.35. Inclusionary housing. Use inclusionary zoning and other regulatory tools to effectively link
the production of affordable housing to the production of market-rate housing.
93. Finding: The policies 5.31 through 5.35 do not apply because the BPCU project impacts the
standards for bicycle parking in new development and does not include standards that impact
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 35

inclusionary housing, the production of affordable housing in the Central City or other affordable
housing resources.
Policy 5.36. Impact of regulations on affordability. Evaluate how existing and new regulations affect
private development of affordable housing, and minimize negative impacts where possible. Avoid
regulations that facilitate economically-exclusive neighborhoods.
94. Finding: The BPCU project meets this goal. Staff worked to ensure the amendments were clear
and objective and minimized negative impacts such as unreasonable cost or delay in providing
needed housing. For example, staff in collaboration with DECA Architecture, conducted a Spatial
and Economic Study of the BPCU amendment proposals in the Discussion Draft. Details on the
analysis can be found in the Appendices. The Study found that the biggest impact of the BPCU
project were on small sites (5,000 sq. ft.) where space is limited to accommodate adequate bicycle
parking. The PSC adopted several amendments to address these small site constraints, including,
not requiring any bicycle parking for sites with 4 or fewer units and for sites with up to 12 units,
100 percent of long-term bicycle parking can be provided in dwelling units, as opposed to use
limited space outside the unit for bicycle parking.
95.  Finding: Further, one of the amendments made to the BPCU package at City Council was to
support affordable housing projects currently in the development pipeline, including the nine
projects awarded Portland Housing Bond funding, by maintaining existing bicycle parking
requirements. These projects used the existing bicycle parking standards (33.266.200, 33.266.210
and 33.266.220) to determine their development costs that are reflected in their financial award
commitment letters from the Portland Housing Bureau (PHB). However, because the projects have
not yet filed for land use review, building permit or development permit, they are not vested
under the existing regulations and in the absence of the proposed legislation would be subject to
the new requirements established with the Bicycle Parking Code Update Project.
Therefore, the BPCU project includes an exemption for a specific subset of projects that are
eligible to use alternative bicycle parking standards. And a companion Ordinance was adopted to
establish the alternative bicycle parking standards for the defined affordable housing projects.
This amendment was an inter-bureau effort between the Portland Bureau of Transportation
(PBOT), Bureau of Planning and Sustainability (BPS), Bureau of Development Services (BDS), and
PHB to deliver stable, affordable housing to households earning 60% of the median family income
(MFI) for rental units and 100% MFI for homeownership units.
The proposal acknowledges the importance of bicycle parking for tenants of new developments,
including affordable housing developments – but to also recognizes the unique financing
structures and longer timelines of affordable housing projects.
Policy 5.37. Mobile home parks. Encourage preservation of mobile home parks as a low/moderate-
income housing option. Evaluate plans and investments for potential redevelopment pressures on
existing mobile home parks and impacts on park residents and protect this low/moderate-income
housing option. Facilitate replacement and alteration of manufactured homes within an existing
mobile home park.
Policy 5.38. Workforce housing. Encourage private development of a robust supply of housing that is
affordable to moderate-income households located near convenient multimodal transportation that
provides access to education and training opportunities, the Central City, industrial districts, and other
employment areas.
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 36

Policy 5.39. Compact single‐family options. Encourage development and preservation of small
resource‐efficient and affordable single-family homes in all areas of the city.
Policy 5.40 Employer-assisted housing. Encourage employer-assisted affordable housing in
conjunction with major employment development.
Policy 5.41 Affordable homeownership. Align plans and investments to support improving
homeownership rates and locational choice for people of color and other groups who have been
historically under-served and under-represented.
Policy 5.42 Homeownership retention. Support opportunities for homeownership retention for
people of color and other groups who have been historically under-served and under-represented.
Policy 5.43 Variety in homeownership opportunities. Encourage a variety of ownership opportunities
and choices by allowing and supporting including but not limited to condominiums, cooperatives,
mutual housing associations, limited equity cooperatives, land trusts, and sweat equity.
Policy 5.44 Regional cooperation. Facilitate opportunities for greater regional cooperation in
addressing housing needs in the Portland metropolitan area, especially for the homeless, low- and
moderate-income households, and historically under-served and under-represented communities.
Policy 5.45 Regional balance. Encourage development of a “regional balance” strategy to secure
greater regional participation to address the housing needs of homeless people and communities of
color, low- and moderate-income households, and historically under-served and under-represented
communities throughout the region.
96. Finding: The policies 5.37 through 5.45 do not apply because the BPCU project impacts the
standards for bicycle parking in new development and does not include standards that impact the
preservation of diverse affordable housing types or homeownership opportunities.
Homelessness
Policy 5.46. Housing continuum. Prevent homelessness and reduce the time spent being homeless by
allowing and striving to provide a continuum of safe and affordable housing opportunities and related
supportive services including but not limited to rent assistance, permanent supportive housing,
transitional housing, micro housing communities, emergency shelters, temporary shelters such as
warming centers, and transitional campground/ rest areas.
97. Finding: This policy does not apply because the BPCU amendments impact only the standards
around bicycle parking in new development and do not affect the continuum of housing
opportunities.
Health, safety, and well-being
Policy 5.47 Healthy housing. Encourage development and maintenance of all housing, especially
multi-dwelling housing, that protects the health and safety of residents and encourages healthy
lifestyles and active living.
98. Finding: The BPCU project meets policy 5.47 because the project requires convenient, safe bicycle
parking in new construction, supporting the use of bicycling, an active transportation mode, for
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 37

recreation and transportation. Regular physical activity, including the use of active transportation,
helps protect overall health and encourage active living.
Policy 5.48. Housing safety. Require safe and healthy housing free of hazardous materials such as
lead, asbestos, and radon.
Policy 5.49. Housing quality. Encourage housing that provides high indoor air quality, access to
sunlight and outdoor spaces, and is protected from excessive noise, pests, and hazardous
environmental conditions.
Policy 5.50. High-performance housing. Encourage energy efficiency, green building practices,
materials, and design to produce healthy, efficient, durable, and adaptable homes that are affordable
or reasonably priced.
99. Finding: The policies 5.48 through 5.50 do not apply because the BPCU project impacts the
standards for bicycle parking in new development and does not include standards that address
hazardous materials, indoor air quality or energy efficiency of developments.
Policy 5.51. Healthy and active living. Encourage housing that provides features supportive of healthy
eating and active living such as useable open areas, recreation areas, community gardens, crime-
preventive design, and community kitchens in multifamily housing.
100. Finding: The BPCU project meets policy 5.51 because the project requires convenient, safe bicycle
parking in new construction, supporting the use of bicycling, an active transportation mode, for
recreation and transportation. Regular physical activity, including the use of active transportation,
helps improve overall health and fitness and promotes active living.
Policy 5.52. Walkable surroundings. Encourage active transportation in residential areas through the
development of pathways, sidewalks, and high-quality onsite amenities such as secure bicycle parking.
101. Finding: The BPCU project meets policy 5.52 because the project will increase the supply of bicycle
parking, which supports bicycling, an active mode of transportation. The BPCU will ensure that
there is adequate secure bicycle parking to meet city bicycle mode split goals. Additionally, the
BPCU project removed a number of current code provisions that led to less secure bicycle parking,
and focused the security standards on locked, restricted access rooms or spaces for long-term
bicycle parking.
Policy 5.53. Responding to social isolation. Encourage site designs and relationship to adjacent
developments that reduce social isolation for groups that often experience it, such as older adults,
people with disabilities, communities of color, and immigrant communities.
Policy 5.54. Renter protections. Enhance renter health, safety, and stability through education,
expansion of enhanced inspections, and support of regulations and incentives that protect tenants
and prevent involuntary displacement.
102. Finding: The policies 5.53 through 5.54 do not apply because the BPCU project impacts the
standards for bicycle parking in new development and does not include standards that address
site design to reduce social isolation or renter protections.
Chapter 6: Economic Development
Goal 6.A: Prosperity. Portland has vigorous economic growth and a healthy, diverse economy that
supports prosperity and equitable access to employment opportunities for an increasingly diverse
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 38

population. A strong economy that is keeping up with population growth and attracting resources and
talent can:
• Create opportunity for people to achieve their full potential.
• Improve public health.
• Support a healthy environment.
• Support the fiscal well-being of the city.
103. Finding: The BPCU project meets Goal 6.A. because the project will increase the supply of bicycle
parking, which supports bicycling, a low-cost transportation option. Transportation is the second
highest household cost and owning a car can cost a family approximately $8,500 a year. The BPCU
standards support low-cost active transportation options which can provide tangible economic
benefits to individuals and households across Portland.
104. Finding: The BPCU project supports people to use bicycling as a mode of transportation, which
could be beneficial for reaching jobs, improving personal health, and reducing carbon emissions
from the transportation sector.
Goal 6.B: Development. Portland supports an attractive environment for industrial, commercial, and
institutional job growth and development by 1) maintaining an adequate land supply; 2) a local
development review system that is nimble, predictable, and fair; and 3) high-quality public facilities
and services.
105. Finding: The BPCU project meets Goal 6.B. because the project staff worked with members of the
development community and the Bureau of Development Services to include standards that are
predictable and fair.
The business environment can be impacted by the cost of implementing City regulations, and new
fees. A Financial Impact Statement (FIS) was prepared with the filing of this ordinance examining
the impact of the proposal the Bureau of Development Services and their permitting process. A
modest land use services fee increase was included to account for staff time to implement the
new bike parking standards.
One of the factors noted in the FIS was the number of permits that will be reviewed annually
under these standards. Most permits reviewed by the City are for remodeling existing buildings,
rather than new development. In general, the Portland Zoning Code does not require existing
development to immediately come into conformance with new standards, like the new bike
parking standards. Instead, larger remodeling projects over a certain dollar threshold must spend
up to 10% of project costs on improvements that will bring the site closer to meeting current
standards (these are known as “nonconforming upgrades”).  The nonconforming upgrade
threshold is currently $168,550 and goes up each year based on the Construction Cost index.
Council has also periodically made policy-based changes to this threshold, to adjust how many
projects and businesses are impacted by zoning requirements.
Among the amendments made to the BPCU package at City Council was to increase to the
nonconforming upgrade threshold from $168,550 to $300,000. This reduces the number of
existing businesses that will be required to make nonconforming upgrades, including those related
to bike parking. This amendment was in response to concerns raised by BDS and commercial
building owners about the general cost of implementing new zoning regulations – to both City
agencies and Portland businesses. This amendment balances the Council’s desire to implement
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 39

other Comprehensive Plan goals with the to maintain a nimble permitting process, and an
environment that facilitates business, as stated in Goal 6B.
Goal 6.C: Business district vitality. Portland implements land use policy and investments to:
• Ensure that commercial, institutional, and industrial districts support business retention and
expansion.
• Encourage the growth of districts that support productive and creative synergies among local
businesses.
• Provide convenient access to goods, services, and markets.
• Take advantage of our location and quality of life advantages as a gateway to world-class
natural landscapes in Northwest Oregon, Southwest Washington, and the Columbia River
Basin, and a robust interconnected system of natural landscapes within the region’s Urban
Growth Boundary.
106. Finding: The BPCU project meets Goal 6.C., and specifically the third bullet to “provide convenient
access to goods, services, and markets”. In the Table 266-6, there are bicycle parking
requirements for Commercial Uses, such as Retail Sales and Services and Restaurants and Bars.
Requiring bicycle parking at these types of development support people who are accessing these
businesses by bikes.
In testimony to the Planning and Sustainability Commission people explained the importance of
having adequate amounts of bicycle parking near retail and services to support their trips.
107.  Finding: Current code includes one Retail use category and therefore did not specify a different
rate for Restaurants and Bars. Staff routinely saw insufficient bicycle parking at bar/restaurants to
meet current bike demand, further demonstrated by requests for additional PBOT sidewalk racks
at these new locations.
The inclusion of a new specific use category for Restaurant and Bar is a response to the high bike
parking demand that Portland eating and drinking establishments have.  Further, requiring more
visitor bike parking for a separate Restaurant and Bar specific use category is typical in other cities,
including Seattle, WA and San Francisco, CA.
Below are a few Portland examples in the Restaurant and Bar Use Category, and how many short-
term racks are required in current code vs. proposed code:
• Zipper (2705 NE Sandy Blvd) - 7,763 sq. ft.
o Current Short-term Requirement = 2 spaces (1 rack)
o Proposed Short-term Requirement = 8 spaces (4 racks)
• Radio Room (1101 NE Alberta St.) - 4,550 sq. ft.
o Current Short-term Requirement = 2 spaces (1 rack)
o Proposed Short-term Requirement = 5 spaces (3 racks)
• Hopworks (2944 SE Powell Blvd) - 13,050 sq. ft.
o Current Short-term Requirement = 2 spaces (1 rack)
o Proposed Short-term Requirement = 14 spaces (7 racks)
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 40

108. Finding: The first, second and forth bullets under Goal 6.C. do not apply because the BPCU project
impacts the standards for bicycle parking in new development and does not include standards
that address business retention, the growth of business districts or the connection to natural
landscapes.
Diverse, expanding city economy
Policy 6.1. Diverse and growing community. Expand economic opportunity and improve economic
equity for Portland’s diverse, growing population through sustained business growth.
Policy 6.2. Diverse and expanding economy. Align plans and investments to maintain the diversity of
Portland’s economy and status as Oregon’s largest job center with growth across all sectors
(commercial, industrial, creative, and institutional) and across all parts of the city.
Policy 6.3. Employment growth. Strive to capture at least 25 percent of the seven-county region’s
employment growth (Multnomah, Washington, Clackamas, Yamhill, Columbia, Clark, and Skamania
counties).
Policy 6.4 Fiscally-stable city. Promote a high citywide jobs-to-households ratio that supports tax
revenue growth at pace with residential demand for municipal services.
Policy 6.5. Economic resilience. Improve Portland’s economic resilience to impacts from climate
change and natural disasters through a strong local economy and equitable opportunities for
prosperity.
Policy 6.6 Low-carbon and renewable energy economy. Align plans and investments with efforts to
improve energy efficiency and reduce lifecycle carbon emissions from business operations. Promote
employment opportunities associated with the production of renewable energy, energy efficiency
projects, waste reduction, production of more durable goods, and recycling.
Policy 6.7 Competitive advantages. Maintain and strengthen the city’s comparative economic
advantages including access to a high-quality workforce, business diversity, competitive business
climate, and multimodal transportation infrastructure.
Policy 6.8 Business environment. Use plans and investments to help create a positive business
environment in the city and provide strategic assistance to retain, expand, and attract businesses.
Policy 6.9 Small business development. Facilitate the success and growth of small businesses and
coordinate plans and investments with programs that provide technical and financial assistance to
promote sustainable operating practices.
Policy 6.10 Business innovation. Encourage innovation, research, development, and
commercialization of new technologies, products, and services through responsive regulations and
public sector approaches.
Policy 6.11 Sharing economy. Encourage mechanisms that enable individuals, corporations, non-
profits, and government to market, distribute, share, and reuse excess capacity in goods and services.
This includes peer-to-peer transactions, crowd funding platforms, and a variety of business models to
facilitate borrowing and renting unused resources.
Policy 6.12 Economic role of livability and ecosystem services. Conserve and enhance Portland’s
cultural, historic, recreational, educational, food-related, and ecosystem assets and services for their
contribution to the local economy and their importance for retention and attraction of skilled workers
and businesses.
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 41

109. Finding: The policies 6.1 through 6.12 do not apply because the BPCU project impacts the
standards for bicycle parking in new development and does not include standards that directly
address the expanding the city economy or the business environment in Portland.
Land Development
Policy 6.13 Land supply. Provide supplies of employment land that are sufficient to meet the long-
term and short-term employment growth forecasts, adequate in terms of amounts and types of sites,
available and practical for development and intended uses. Types of sites are distinguished primarily
by employment geographies identified in the Economic Opportunities Analysis, although capacity
needs for building types with similar site characteristics can be met in other employment geographies.
Policy 6.14 Brownfield redevelopment. Overcome financial-feasibility gaps to cleanup and redevelop
60 percent of brownfield acreage by 2035. Additional related policies are found in the Industrial and
employment districts section of this chapter.
Policy 6.15 Regionally-competitive development sites. Improve the competitiveness of vacant and
underutilized sites located in Portland’s employment areas through the use of incentives, and regional
and state assistance for needed infrastructure and site readiness improvements. ‘
110. Finding: The policies 6.13 through 6.15 do not apply because the BPCU project impacts the
standards for bicycle parking in new development and does not include standards that address
land supply, brownfield redevelopment or development of underutilized sites.
Policy 6.16 Regulatory climate. Improve development review processes and regulations to encourage
predictability and support local and equitable employment growth and encourage business retention,
including:
6.16.a. Assess and understand cumulative regulatory costs to promote Portland’s financial
competitiveness with other comparable cities.
6.16.b. Promote certainty for new development through appropriate allowed uses and “clear and
objective” standards to permit typical development types without a discretionary review.
6.16.c. Allow discretionary-review as a way to facilitate flexible and innovative approaches to
meet requirements.
6.16.d. Design and monitor development review processes to avoid unnecessary delays.
6.16.e. Promote cost effective compliance with federal and state mandates, productive
intergovernmental coordination, and efficient, well-coordinated development review and
permitting procedures.
6.16.f. Consider short-term market conditions and how area development patterns will transition
over time when creating new development regulations.
Finding: The BPCU project meets Policy 6.16.a. to assess and understand cumulative regulatory
costs.  Project staff worked to ensure the amendments were clear and objective and do no cause
unreasonable cost or delay in providing needed housing. For example, staff in collaboration with
DECA Architecture, conducted a Spatial and Economic Study of the BPCU amendment proposals in
the Discussion Draft. Details on the analysis can be found in the Appendices. The Study found that
the biggest impact of the BPCU project were on small sites (5,000 sq. ft.) where space is limited to
accommodate adequate bicycle parking. The PSC adopted several amendments to address these
small site constraints, including, not requiring any bicycle parking for sites with 4 or fewer units
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 42

and for sites with up to 12 units, 100 percent of long-term bicycle parking can be provided in
dwelling units, as opposed to use limited space outside the unit for bicycle parking.
Policy 6.17 Short-term land supply. Provide for a competitive supply of development ready sites with
different site sizes and types, to meet five-year demand for employment growth in the Central City,
industrial areas, campus institutions, and neighborhood business districts.
Policy 6.18 Evaluate land needs. Update the Economic Opportunities Analysis and short-term land
supply strategies every five to seven years.
Policy 6.19 Corporate headquarters. Provide land opportunities for development of corporate
headquarters campuses in locations with suitable transportation facilities.
111. Finding: The policies 6.17 through 6.19 do not apply because the BPCU project impacts the
standards for bicycle parking in new development and does not include standards that address
land supply or providing site locations for corporate headquarters.
Trade sector competitiveness
Policy 6.20 Traded sector competitiveness. Align plans and investments with efforts to improve the
city and regional business environment for traded sector and export growth. Participate in regional
and statewide initiatives.
Policy 6.21 Traded sector diversity. Encourage partnerships to foster the growth, small business
vitality, and diversity of traded sectors.
Policy 6.22 Clusters. Align plans and investments with efforts that direct strategic business
development resources to enhance the competitiveness of businesses in traded sector clusters.
Policy 6.23 Trade and freight hub. Encourage investment in transportation systems and services that
will retain and expand Portland’s competitive position as a West Coast trade gateway and freight
distribution hub.
Policy 6.24 Traded sector land supply. Foster traded sector retention, growth, and competitive
advantages in industrial districts and the Central City. Recognize the concentration of traded-sector
businesses in these districts.
Policy 6.25 Import substitution. Encourage local goods production and service delivery that substitute
for imports and help keep the money Portlanders earn in the local economy.
Policy 6.26 Business opportunities in urban innovation. Strive to have Portland’s built environment,
businesses, and infrastructure systems showcase examples of best practices of innovation and
sustainability.
112. Finding: The policies 6.20 through 6.26 do not apply because the BPCU project impacts the
standards for bicycle parking in new development and does not include standards that address the
trade sector.
Equitable household prosperity
Policy 6.27 Income self-sufficiency. Expand access to self-sufficient wage levels and career ladders for
low-income people by maintaining an adequate and viable supply of employment land and public
facilities to support and expand opportunities in Portland for middle- and high-wage jobs that do not
require a 4-year college degree.
6.27.a. Support the role of industrial districts as a leading source of middle wage jobs that do not
require a 4-year college degree and as a major source of wage-disparity reduction for under-
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 43

served and under-represented communities.
6.27.b. Evaluate and limit negative impacts of plans and investments on middle and high wage job
creation and retention.
Policy 6.28 East Portland job growth. Improve opportunities for East Portland to grow as a business
destination and source of living wage jobs.
Policy 6.29 Poverty reduction. Encourage investment in, and alignment of, poverty reduction efforts
that address economic development, land use, transportation, housing, social services, public health,
community development, and workforce development.
Policy 6.30 Disparity reduction. Encourage investment in, and alignment of, public efforts to reduce
racial, ethnic, and disability-related disparities in income and employment opportunity.
Policy 6.31 Minority-owned, woman-owned and emerging small business (MWESB) assistance.
Ensure that plans and investments improve access to contracting opportunities for minority-owned,
woman-owned, and emerging small businesses.
Policy 6.32 Urban renewal plans. Encourage urban renewal plans to primarily benefit existing
residents and businesses within the urban renewal area through:
• Revitalization of neighborhoods.
• Expansion of housing choices.
• Creation of business and job opportunities.
• Provision of transportation linkages.
• Protection of residents and businesses from the threats posed by gentrification and
displacement.
• The creation and enhancement of those features which improve the quality of life
within the urban renewal area.
113. Finding: The policies 6.27 through 6.32 do not apply because the BPCU project impacts the
standards for bicycle parking in new development and does not include standards that address
expansion of job opportunities and development of job sites.
Central City
Policy 6.33 Central City. Improve the Central City’s regional share of employment and continue its
growth as the unique center of both the city and the region for innovation and exchange through
commerce, employment, arts, culture, entertainment, tourism, education, and government.
Policy 6.34 Central City industrial districts. Protect and facilitate the long-term success of Central City
industrial sanctuary districts, while supporting their evolution into places with a broad mix of
businesses with high employment densities.
Policy 6.35 Innovation districts. Provide for expanding campus institutions in the Central City and
Marquam Hill, and encourage business development that builds on their research and development
strengths.
114. Finding: The policies 6.33 through 6.35 do not apply because the BPCU project impacts the
standards for bicycle parking in new development and does not include standards that address
expanding employment districts and campuses in the Central City.
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 44

Industrial and employment districts
Policy 6.36 Industrial land. Provide industrial land that encourages industrial business retention,
growth, and traded sector competitiveness as a West Coast trade and freight hub, a regional center of
diverse manufacturing, and a widely accessible base of family-wage jobs, particularly for under-served
and underrepresented people.
Policy 6.37 Industrial sanctuaries. Protect industrial land as industrial sanctuaries identified on the
Comprehensive Plan Map primarily for manufacturing and distribution uses and to encourage the
growth of industrial activities in the city.
Policy 6.38 Prime industrial land retention. Protect the multimodal freight-hub industrial districts at
the Portland Harbor, Columbia Corridor, and Brooklyn Yard as prime industrial land that is prioritized
for long-term retention. See Figure 6-1 – Industrial and Employment Districts.
6.38.a. Protect prime industrial lands from quasi-judicial Comprehensive Plan Map amendments
that convert prime industrial land to non-industrial uses, and consider the potential for other map
amendments to otherwise diminish the economic competitiveness or viability of prime industrial
land.
6.38.b. Limit conversion of prime industrial land through land use plans, regulations, or public land
acquisition for non-industrial uses, especially land that can be used by river-dependent and river-
related industrial uses.
6.38.c. Limit regulatory impacts on the capacity, affordability, and viability of industrial uses in the
prime industrial area while ensuring environmental resources and public health are also
protected.
6.38.d. Strive to offset the reduction of development capacity as needed, with additional prime
industrial capacity that includes consideration of comparable site characteristics. Offsets may
include but are not limited to additional brownfield remediation, industrial use intensification,
strategic investments, and other innovative tools and partnerships that increase industrial
utilization of industrial land.
6.38.e. Protect prime industrial land from siting for parks, schools, large format places of
assembly, and large-format retail sales. 6.38.f. Promote efficient use of freight hub infrastructure
and prime industrial land by limiting non-industrial uses that do not need to be located in the
prime industrial area.
Policy 6.39 Harbor access lands. Limit use of harbor access lands to river- or rail dependent or related
industrial land uses due to the unique and necessary infrastructure and site characteristics of harbor
access lands for river dependent industrial uses.
Policy 6.40 Portland Harbor Superfund Site. Take a leadership role to facilitate a cleanup of the
Portland Harbor that moves forward as quickly as possible and that allocates cleanup costs fairly and
equitably. Encourage a science-based and cost-effective cleanup solution that facilitates re-use of land
for river- or rail dependent or related industrial uses.
Policy 6.41 Multimodal freight corridors. Encourage freight-oriented industrial development to locate
where it can maximize the use of and support reinvestment in multimodal freight corridors.
Policy 6.42 Columbia East. Provide a mix of industrial and limited business park development in
Columbia East (east of 82nd Avenue) that expand employment opportunities supported by proximity
to Portland International Airport and multimodal freight access.
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 45

Policy 6.43 Dispersed employment areas. Provide small, dispersed employment areas for a flexible
and affordable mix of office, creative services, small-scale manufacturing, traded sector and
distribution, and other small-format light industrial and commercial uses with access to nearby
freeways or truck streets.
Policy 6.44 Industrial land use intensification. Encourage reinvestment in, and intensification of,
industrial land use, as measured by output and throughput per acre.
Policy 6.45 Industrial brownfield redevelopment. Provide incentives, investments, technical
assistance and other direct support to overcome financial-feasibility gaps to enable remediation and
redevelopment of brownfields for industrial growth.
Policy 6.46 Impact analysis. Evaluate and monitor the impacts on industrial land capacity that may
result from land use plans, regulations, public land acquisition, public facility development, and other
public actions to protect and preserve existing industrial lands.
Policy 6.47 Clean, safe, and green. Encourage improvements to the cleanliness, safety, and ecological
performance of industrial development and freight corridors by facilitating adoption of market
feasible new technology and design.
Policy 6.48 Fossil fuel distribution. Limit fossil fuels distribution and storage facilities to those
necessary to serve the regional market.
Policy 6.49 Industrial growth and watershed health. Facilitate concurrent strategies to protect and
improve industrial capacity and watershed health in the Portland Harbor and Columbia Corridor areas.
Policy 6.50 District expansion. Provide opportunities for expansion of industrial areas based on
evaluation of forecasted need and the ability to meet environmental, social, economic, and other
goals.
Policy 6.51 Golf course reuse and redevelopment. Facilitate a mix of industrial, natural resource, and
public open space uses on privately-owned golf course sites in the Columbia Corridor that property
owners make available for reuse.
Policy 6.52 Residential and commercial reuse. Facilitate compatible industrial or employment
redevelopment on residential or commercial sites that become available for reuse if the site is in or
near prime industrial areas, and near a freeway or on a freight street.
Policy 6.53 Mitigation banks. Facilitate industrial site development by promoting and allowing
environmental mitigation banks that serve industrial land uses on prime industrial land.
Policy 6.54 Neighborhood buffers. Maintain and enhance major natural areas, open spaces, and
constructed features as boundaries and buffers for the Portland Harbor and Columbia Corridor
industrial areas.
Policy 6.55 Neighborhood park use. Allow neighborhood park development within industrial zones
where needed to provide adequate park service within one-half mile of every resident.
115. Finding: The policies 6.36 through 6.55 do not apply because the BPCU project impacts the
standards for bicycle parking in new development and does not include standards that address
industrial districts or allowing types of industrial uses on sites.
Campus Institutions
Policy 6.56 Campus institutions. Provide for the stability and growth of Portland’s major campus
institutions as essential service providers, centers of innovation, workforce development resources,
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 46

and major employers. See Figure 6-2 – Campus Institutions.
Policy 6.57 Campus land use. Provide for major campus institutions as a type of employment land,
allowing uses typically associated with health care and higher education institutions. Coordinate with
institutions in changing campus zoning to provide land supply that is practical for development and
intended uses.
116. Finding: The policies 6.56 and 6.57 do not apply because the BPCU project impacts the standards
for bicycle parking in new development and does not include standards that address the land use
for campus institutions.
Policy 6.58 Development impacts. Protect the livability of surrounding neighborhoods through
adequate infrastructure and campus development standards that foster suitable density and
attractive campus design. Minimize off-site impacts in collaboration with institutions and neighbors,
especially to reduce automobile traffic and parking impacts.
117. Finding: The BPCU project meets this policy. The BPCU project requires the provision of safe,
accessible, convenient bicycle parking in new construction. This supports the use of bicycling, an
active and zero-emission mode, for trips, potentially reducing demand for automobile parking and
car traffic.
Policy 6.59 Community amenities and services. Encourage campus development that provides
amenities and services to surrounding neighborhoods, emphasizing the role of campuses as centers of
community activity.
Policy 6.60 Campus edges. Provide for context-sensitive, transitional uses, and development at the
edges of campus institutions to enhance their integration into surrounding neighborhoods, including
mixed-use and neighborhood-serving commercial uses where appropriate.
Policy 6.61 Satellite facilities. Encourage opportunities for expansion of uses, not integral to campus
functions, to locate in centers and corridors to support their economic vitality.
118. Finding: The policies 6.59 and 6.61 do not apply because the BPCU project impacts the standards
for bicycle parking in new development and does not include standards that address the land use
for campus institutions.
Neighborhood business districts
Policy 6.62 Neighborhood business districts. Provide for the growth, economic equity, and vitality of
neighborhood business districts. See Figure 6-3 – Neighborhood Business Districts.
Policy 6.63 District function. Enhance the function of neighborhood business districts as a foundation
of neighborhood livability.
Policy 6.64 Small, independent businesses. Facilitate the retention and growth of small and locally-
owned businesses.
Policy 6.65 Home-based businesses. Encourage and expand allowances for small, low impact home
based businesses in residential areas, including office or personal service uses with infrequent or by-
appointment customer or client visits to the site. Allow a limited number of employees, within the
scale of activity typical in residential areas. Allow home-based businesses on sites with accessory
dwelling units.
Policy 6.66 Neighborhood-serving business. Provide for neighborhood business districts and small
commercial nodes in areas between centers to expand local access to goods and services. Allow nodes
of small-scale neighborhood-serving commercial uses in large planned developments and as a ground
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 47

floor use in high density residential areas.
Policy 6.67 Retail development. Provide for a competitive supply of retail sites that support the wide
range of consumer needs for convenience, affordability, accessibility, and diversity of goods and
services, especially in under-served areas of Portland.
Policy 6.68 Investment priority. Prioritize commercial revitalization investments in neighborhoods
that serve communities with limited access to goods and services.
Policy 6.69 Non-conforming neighborhood business uses. Limit non-conforming uses to reduce
adverse impacts on nearby residential uses while avoiding displacement of existing neighborhood
businesses.
Policy 6.70 Involuntary commercial displacement. Evaluate plans and investments for their impact on
existing businesses.
6.70.a. Limit involuntary commercial displacement in areas at risk of gentrification, and
incorporate tools to reduce the cost burden of rapid neighborhood change on small business
owners vulnerable to displacement.
6.70.b. Encourage the preservation and creation of affordable neighborhood commercial space to
support a broad range of small business owners.
Policy 6.71 Temporary and informal markets and structures. Acknowledge and support the role that
temporary markets (farmers markets, craft markets, flea markets, etc.) and other temporary or
mobile-vending structures play in enabling startup business activity. Also acknowledge that temporary
uses may ultimately be replaced by more permanent development and uses.
Policy 6.72 Community economic development. Encourage collaborative approaches to align land use
and neighborhood economic development for residents and business owners to better connect and
compete in the regional economy.
6.72.a. Encourage broad-based community coalitions to implement land use and economic
development objectives and programs.
6.72.b. Enhance opportunities for cooperation and partnerships between public and private
entities that promote economic vitality in communities most disconnected from the regional
economy.
6.72.c. Encourage cooperative efforts by area businesses, Business Associations, and
Neighborhood Associations to work together on commercial revitalization efforts, sustainability
initiatives, and transportation demand management.
Policy 6.73 Centers. Encourage concentrations of commercial services and employment opportunities
in centers.
6.73.a. Encourage a broad range of neighborhood commercial services in centers to help residents
and others in the area meet daily needs and/or serve as neighborhood gathering places.
6.73.b. Encourage the retention and further development of grocery stores and local markets as
essential elements of centers.
6.73.c. Enhance opportunities for services and activities in centers that are responsive to the
needs of the populations and cultural groups of the surrounding area.
6.73.d. Require ground-level building spaces in core areas of centers accommodate commercial or
other street-activating uses and services.
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 48

6.73.e. Encourage employment opportunities as a key function of centers, including connections
between centers, institutions, and other major employers to reinforce their roles as vibrant
centers of activity.
119. Finding: The policies 6.62 through 6.73 do not apply because the BPCU project impacts only the
standards around bicycle parking and do not affect employment or the function of commercial
districts.
Chapter 7: Environmental and Watershed Health
Goal 7.A: Climate. Carbon emissions are reduced to 50 percent below 1990 levels by 2035.
120. Finding: The BPCU project meets this goal. Transportation emissions make up 40% of total carbon
emissions. The BPCU project makes it easier for people in Portland to use bicycles for
transportation and recreation rather than fossil-fueled vehicles.
Goal 7.B: Healthy watersheds and environment. Ecosystem services and ecosystem functions are
maintained, and watershed conditions have improved over time, supporting public health and safety,
environmental quality, fish and wildlife, cultural values, economic prosperity, and the intrinsic value of
nature.
Goal 7.C: Resilience. Portland’s built and natural environments function in complementary ways and
are resilient in the face of climate change and natural hazards.
Goal 7.D: Environmental equity. All Portlanders have access to clean air and water, can experience
nature in their daily lives, and benefit from development designed to lessen the impacts of natural
hazards and environmental contamination.
Goal 7.E: Community stewardship. Portlanders actively participate in efforts to maintain and improve
the environment, including watershed health.
121. Finding: Goals 7B through 7E do not apply because the BPCU project affects the requirement of
bicycle parking in new construction and the standards do not address environmental and
watershed health.
Improve environmental quality and resilience
Policy 7.1 Environmental quality. Protect or support efforts to protect air, water, and soil quality, and
associated benefits to public and ecological health and safety, through plans and investments.
Policy 7.2 Environmental equity. Prevent or reduce adverse environment-related disparities affecting
under-served and under-represented communities through plans and investments. This includes
addressing disparities relating to air and water quality, natural hazards, contamination, climate
change, and access to nature.
Policy 7.3 Ecosystem services. Consider the benefits provided by healthy ecosystems that contribute
to the livability and economic health of the city.
122. Finding: Policies 7.1 through 7.3 do not apply. While the BPCU project makes it easier for people
in Portland to use bicycles for transportation and recreation rather than fossil-fueled vehicles
which is beneficial to the environment, the standards to not directly address air, soil and water
quality, environmental disparities and natural hazards or ecosystem services.
Policy 7.4 Climate change. Update and implement strategies to reduce carbon emissions and impacts,
and increase resilience through plans and investments and public education.
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 49

123. Finding: The BPCU project meets the intent of Policy 7.4. Transportation emissions make up 40%
of total carbon emissions. The BPCU project makes it easier for people in Portland to use bicycles
for transportation and recreation rather than fossil-fueled vehicles.
7.4.a. Carbon sequestration. Enhance the capacity of Portland’s urban forest, soils, wetlands,
and other water bodies to serve as carbon reserves.
7.4.b. Climate adaptation and resilience. Enhance the ability of rivers, streams, wetlands,
floodplains, urban forest, habitats, and wildlife to limit and adapt to climate-exacerbated
flooding, landslides, wildfire, and urban heat island effects.
124. Finding: Policies 7.4.a. and 7.4.b. do not apply. While the BPCU project makes it easier for people
in Portland to use bicycles for transportation and recreation rather than fossil-fueled vehicles, the
standards to not directly address carbon sequestration or enhancing the environment’s ability to
adapt to climate change related flooding, landslides, wildfire or heat island effects.
Policy 7.5 Air quality. Improve, or support efforts to improve, air quality through plans and
investments, including reducing exposure to air toxics, criteria pollutants, and urban heat island
effects. Consider the impacts of air quality on the health of all Portlanders. Coordinate with the
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality to incorporate up-to-date air quality information and
best practices into planning and investment decisions.
Policy 7.6 Hydrology. Improve, or support efforts to improve, watershed hydrology, through plans and
investments, to achieve more natural flow and enhance conveyance and storage capacity in rivers,
streams, floodplains, wetlands, and aquifers. Minimize impacts from development and associated
impervious surfaces, especially in areas with poorly-infiltrating soils and limited public stormwater
discharge points and encourage restoration of degraded hydrologic functions.
Policy 7.7 Water quality. Improve, or support efforts to improve, water quality in rivers, streams,
floodplains, groundwater, and wetlands through land use plans and investments, to address water
quality issues including toxics, bacteria, temperature, metals, and sediment pollution. Consider the
impacts of water quality on the health of all Portlanders.
Policy 7.8 Biodiversity. Strive to achieve and maintain self-sustaining populations of native species,
including native plants, native resident and migratory fish and wildlife species, at-risk species, and
beneficial insects (such as pollinators) through plans and investments.
Policy 7.9 Habitat and biological communities. Improve, or support efforts to improve, fish and
wildlife habitat and biological communities. Use plans and investments to enhance the diversity,
quantity, and quality of habitats habitat corridors, and especially habitats that:
• Are rare or declining.
• Support at-risk plant and animal species and communities.
• Support recovery of species under the Endangered Species Act, and prevent new listings.
• Provide culturally important food sources, including those associated with Native American
fishing rights.
Policy 7.10 Habitat connectivity. Improve or support efforts to improve terrestrial and aquatic habitat
connectivity for fish and wildlife by using plans and investments, to:
• Prevent and repair habitat fragmentation.
• Improve habitat quality.
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 50

• Weave habitat into sites as new development occurs.
• Enhance or create habitat corridors that allow fish and wildlife to safely access and move
through and between habitat areas.
• Promote restoration and protection of floodplains.
Policy 7.11 Urban forest. Improve, or support efforts to improve the quantity, quality, and equitable
distribution of Portland’s urban forest through plans and investments.
7.11.a. Tree preservation. Require and incent preservation of large healthy trees, native trees
and vegetation, tree groves, and forested areas.
7.11.b. Urban forest diversity. Coordinate plans and investments with efforts to improve tree
species diversity and age diversity.
7.11.c. Tree canopy. Coordinate plans and investments toward meeting City tree canopy goals.
7.11.d. Tree planting. Invest in tree planting and maintenance, especially in low-canopy areas,
neighborhoods with under-served or under-represented communities, and within and near
urban habitat corridors.
7.11.e. Vegetation in natural resource areas. Require native trees and vegetation in significant
natural resource areas.
7.11.f. Resilient urban forest. Encourage planting of Pacific Northwest hardy and climate change
resilient native trees and vegetation generally, and especially in urban habitat corridors.
7.11.g. Trees in land use planning. Identify priority areas for tree preservation and planting in
land use plans and incent these actions.
7.11.h. Managing wildfire risk. Address wildfire hazard risks and management priorities through
plans and investments.
Policy 7.12 Invasive species. Prevent or reduce the spread of invasive plants, remove infestations, and
support efforts to reduce the impacts of invasive plants, animals, and insects, through plans,
investments, and education.
Policy 7.13 Soils. Coordinate plans and investments with programs that address human induced soil
loss, erosion, contamination, or other impairments to soil quality and function.
Policy 7.14 Natural hazards. Prevent development-related degradation of natural systems and
associated increases in landslide, wildfire, flooding, and earthquake risks.
Policy 7.15 Brownfield remediation. Improve environmental quality and watershed health by
promoting and facilitating brownfield remediation and redevelopment that incorporates ecological
site design and resource enhancement.
Policy 7.16 Adaptive management. Evaluate trends in watershed and environmental health, and use
current monitoring data and information to guide and support improvements in the effectiveness of
City plans and investments.
Policy 7.17 Restoration partnerships. Coordinate plans and investments with other jurisdictions, air
and water quality regulators, watershed councils, soil and water conservation districts, Sovereign
nations, and community organizations and groups including under-served and under-represented
communities, to optimize the benefits, distribution, and cost-effectiveness of watershed restoration
and enhancement efforts.
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 51

Policy 7.18 Community stewardship. Encourage voluntary cooperation between property owners,
community organizations, and public agencies to restore or re-create habitat on their property,
including removing invasive plants and planting native species.
125. Finding: The policies 7.1 through 7.3 and 7.4 through 7.18 do not apply. While the BPCU project
makes it easier for people in Portland to use bicycles for transportation and recreation rather than
fossil-fueled vehicles, the standards to not directly address these policies under environmental
quality and resilience.
Planning for natural resource protection
Policy 7.19 Natural resource protection. Protect the quantity, quality, and function of significant
natural resources identified in the City’s natural resource inventory, including:
• Rivers, streams, sloughs, and drainageways.
• Floodplains.
• Riparian corridors.
• Wetlands.
• Groundwater.
• Native and other beneficial vegetation species and communities.
• Aquatic and terrestrial habitats, including special habitats or habitats of concern, large anchor
habitats, habitat complexes and corridors, rare and declining habitats such as wetlands, native
oak, bottomland hardwood forest, grassland habitat, shallow water habitat, and habitats that
support special-status or at-risk plant and wildlife species.
• Other resources identified in natural resource inventories.
Policy 7.20 Natural resource inventory. Maintain an up-to-date inventory by identifying the location
and evaluating the relative quantity and quality of natural resources.
Policy 7.21 Environmental plans and regulations. Maintain up-to-date environmental protection
plans and regulations that specify the significant natural resources to be protected and the types of
protections to be applied, based on the best data and science available and on an evaluation of
cumulative environmental, social, and economic impacts and tradeoffs. See Figure 7-2 — Adopted
Environmental Plans.
7.21.a. Improve the effectiveness of environmental protection plans and regulations to protect
and encourage enhancement of ecological functions and ecosystem services.
7.21.b. Prevent or reduce disproportionate environmental impacts on underserved and under-
represented communities.
Policy 7.22 Land acquisition priorities and coordination. Maintain a land acquisition program as a tool
to protect and support natural resources and their functions. Coordinate land acquisition with the
programs of City bureaus and other agencies and organizations.
126. Finding: The policies 7.19 through 7.22 do not apply because the BPCU project affects the
requirement of bicycle parking in new construction and the standards do not address natural
resource protection.
Protecting natural resources in development situations
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 52

Policy 7.23 Impact evaluation. Evaluate the potential adverse impacts of proposed development on
significant natural resources, their functions, and the ecosystem services they provide to inform and
guide development design and mitigation consistent with policies 7.24-7.26, and other relevant
Comprehensive Plan policies.
Policy 7.24 Regulatory hierarchy: avoid, minimize, mitigate. Maintain regulations requiring that the
potential adverse impacts of new development on significant natural resources and their functions
first be avoided where practicable, then minimized, then lastly, mitigated.
Policy 7.25 Mitigation effectiveness. Require that mitigation approaches compensate fully for adverse
impacts on locally and regionally significant natural resources and functions. Require mitigation to be
located as close to the impact as possible. Mitigation must also take place within the same watershed
or portion of the watershed that is within the Portland Urban Services Boundary, unless mitigating
outside of these areas will provide a greater local ecological benefit. Mitigation will be subject to the
following preference hierarchy:
1. On the site of the resource subject to impact with the same kind of resource; if that is not
possible, then
2. Off-site with the same kind of resource; if that is not possible, then
3. On-site with a different kind of resource; if that is not possible, then
4. Off-site with a different kind of resource.
Policy 7.26 Improving environmental conditions through development. Encourage ecological site
design, site enhancement, or other tools to improve ecological functions and ecosystem services in
conjunction with new development and alterations to existing development.
127. Finding: The policies 7.23 through 7.26 do not apply because the BPCU project affects the
requirement of bicycle parking in new construction and the standards do not address natural
resource impact mitigation and development mitigation.
Aggregate resources
Policy 7.27 Aggregate resource protection. Protect aggregate resource sites for current and future
use where there are no major conflicts with urban needs, or where these conflicts may be resolved.
Policy 7.28 Aggregate resource development. When aggregate resources are developed, ensure that
development minimizes adverse environmental impacts and impacts on adjacent land uses.
Policy 7.29 Mining site reclamation. Ensure that the reclamation of mining sites protects public health
and safety, protects fish and wildlife (including at-risk species), enhances or restores habitat (including
rare and declining habitat types), restores adequate watershed conditions and functions on the site,
and is compatible with the surrounding land uses and conditions of nearby land.
128. Finding: The policies 7.27 through 7.29 do not apply because the BPCU project affects the
requirement of bicycle parking in new construction and the standards do not address aggregate
resource protection or development.
Columbia River Watershed
Policy 7.30 In-water habitat. Enhance in-water habitat for native fish and wildlife, particularly in the
Oregon Slough and near-shore environments along the Columbia River.
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 53

Policy 7.31 Sensitive habitats. Enhance grassland, beach, riverbanks, wetlands, bottomland forests,
shallow water habitats, and other key habitats for wildlife traveling along the Columbia River
migratory corridor, while continuing to manage the levees and floodplain for flood control.
Policy 7.32 River-dependent and river-related uses. Maintain plans and regulations that recognize the
needs of river-dependent and river-related uses while also supporting ecologically-sensitive site design
and practices.
129. Finding: The policies 7.30 through 7.32 do not apply because the BPCU project affects the
requirement of bicycle parking in new construction and the standards do not address standards
related to the Columbia River Watershed.
Willamette River Watershed
Policy 7.33 Fish habitat. Provide adequate intervals of ecologically-functional shallow water habitat
for native fish along the entire length of the Willamette River within the city, and at the confluences of
its tributaries.
Policy 7.34 Stream connectivity. Improve stream connectivity between the Willamette River and its
tributaries.
Policy 7.35 River bank conditions. Preserve existing river bank habitat and encourage the
rehabilitation of river bank sections that have been significantly altered due to development with
more fish and wildlife friendly riverbank conditions.
Policy 7.36 South Reach ecological complex. Enhance habitat quality and connections between Ross
Island, Oaks Bottom, and riverfront parks and natural areas south of the Central City, to enhance the
area as a functioning ecological complex.
Policy 7.37 Contaminated sites. Promote and support programs that facilitate the cleanup, reuse, and
restoration of the Portland Harbor Superfund site and other contaminated upland sites.
Policy 7.38 Sensitive habitats. Protect and enhance grasslands, beaches, floodplains, wetlands,
remnant native oak, bottomland hardwood forest, and other key habitats for native wildlife including
shorebirds, waterfowl, and species that migrate along the Pacific Flyway and the Willamette River
corridor.
Policy 7.39 Riparian corridors. Increase the width and quality of vegetated riparian buffers along the
Willamette River.
Policy 7.40 Connected upland and river habitats. Enhance habitat quality and connectivity between
the Willamette riverfront, the Willamette’s floodplain, and upland natural resource areas.
Policy 7.41 River-dependent and river-related uses. Develop and maintain plans and regulations that
recognize the needs of river-dependent and river-related uses, while also supporting ecologically-
sensitive site design and practices.
Policy 7.42 Forest Park. Enhance Forest Park as an anchor habitat and recreational resource.
130. Finding: The policies 7.33 through 7.42 do not apply because the BPCU project affects the
requirement of bicycle parking in new construction and the standards do not address standards
related to the Willamette River Watershed or Forest Park.
Columbia Slough Watershed
Policy 7.43 Fish passage. Restore in-stream habitat and improve fish passage within the Columbia
Slough, including for salmonids in the lower slough.
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 54

Policy 7.44 Flow constriction removal. Reduce constriction, such as culverts, in the slough channels,
to improve the flow of water and water quality.
Policy 7.45 Riparian corridors. Increase the width, quality, and native plant diversity of vegetated
riparian buffers along Columbia Slough channels and other drainageways within the watershed, while
also managing the slough for flood control.
Policy 7.46 Sensitive habitats. Enhance grasslands and wetland habitats in the Columbia Slough, such
as those found in the Smith and Bybee Lakes and at the St. Johns Landfill site, to provide habitat for
sensitive species, and for wildlife traveling along the Columbia and Willamette river migratory
corridors.
Policy 7.47 Connected rivers habitats. Enhance upland habitat connections to the Willamette and
Columbia rivers.
Policy 7.48 Contaminated sites. Ensure that plans and investments are consistent with and advance
programs that facilitate the cleanup, reuse, and restoration of contaminated sites that are adjacent, or
that discharge stormwater, to the Columbia Slough.
Policy 7.49 Portland International Airport. Protect, restore, and enhance natural resources and
functions in the Portland International Airport plan district, as identified in Portland International
Airport/Middle Columbia Slough Natural Resources Inventory. Accomplish this through regulations,
voluntary strategies, and the implementation of special development standards.
131. Finding: The policies 7.43 through 7.49 do not apply because the BPCU project affects the
requirement of bicycle parking in new construction and the standards do not address standards
related to the Columbia Slough Watershed.
Fanno and Tryon Creek Watersheds
Policy 7.50 Stream connectivity. Encourage the daylighting of piped portions of Tryon and Fanno
creeks and their tributaries.
Policy 7.51 Riparian and habitat corridors. Protect and enhance riparian habitat quality and
connectivity along Tryon and Fanno creeks and their tributaries. Enhance connections between
riparian areas, parks, anchor habitats, and areas with significant tree canopy. Enhance in-stream and
upland habitat connections between Tryon Creek State Natural Area and the Willamette River.
Policy 7.52 Reduced hazard risks. Reduce the risks of landslides and streambank erosion by protecting
trees and vegetation that absorb stormwater, especially in areas with steep slopes or limited access to
stormwater infrastructure.
132. Finding: The policies 7.50 through 7.52 do not apply because the BPCU project affects the
requirement of bicycle parking in new construction and the standards do not address standards
related to the Fanno and Tryon Creek Watersheds.
Johnson Creek Watershed
Policy 7.53 In-stream and riparian habitat. Enhance in-stream and riparian habitat and improve fish
passage for salmonids along Johnson Creek and its tributaries.
Policy 7.54 Floodplain restoration. Enhance Johnson Creek floodplain functions to increase flood-
storage capacity, improve water quality, and enhance fish and wildlife habitat.
Policy 7.55 Connected floodplains, springs, and wetlands. Enhance hydrologic and habitat
connectivity between the Johnson Creek floodplain and its springs and wetlands.
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 55

Policy 7.56 Reduced natural hazards. Reduce the risks of landslides, streambank erosion and
downstream flooding by protecting seeps, springs, trees, vegetation, and soils that absorb stormwater
in the East Buttes.
Policy 7.57 Greenspace network. Enhance the network of parks, trails, and natural areas near the
Springwater Corridor Trail and the East Buttes to enhance habitat connectivity and nature-based
recreation in East Portland.
133. Finding: The policies 7.53 through 7.57 do not apply because the BPCU project affects the
requirement of bicycle parking in new construction and the standards do not address standards
related to the Johnson Creek Watershed.
Chapter 8: Public Facilities and Services
Goal 8.A: Quality public facilities and services. High-quality public facilities and services provide
Portlanders with optimal levels of service throughout the city, based on system needs and community
goals, and in compliance with regulatory mandates.
Goal 8.B: Multiple benefits. Public facility and service investments improve equitable service
provision, support economic prosperity, and enhance human and environmental health.
Goal 8.C: Reliability and resiliency. Public facilities and services are reliable, able to withstand or
recover from catastrophic natural and manmade events, and are adaptable and resilient in the face of
long-term changes in the climate, economy, and technology.
Goal 8.D: Public rights-of-way. Public rights-of-way enhance the public realm and provide a multi-
purpose, connected, safe, and healthy physical space for movement and travel, public and private
utilities, and other appropriate public functions and uses.
Goal 8.E: Sanitary and stormwater systems. Wastewater and stormwater are managed, conveyed,
and/or treated to protect public health, safety, and the environment, and to meet the needs of the
community on an equitable, efficient, and sustainable basis.
Goal 8.F: Flood management. Flood management systems and facilities support watershed health and
manage flooding to reduce adverse impacts on Portlanders’ health, safety, and property.
Goal 8.G: Water. Reliable and adequate water supply and delivery systems provide sufficient
quantities of high-quality water at adequate pressures to meet the needs of the community on an
equitable, efficient, and sustainable basis.
Goal 8.H: Parks, natural areas, and recreation. All Portlanders have safe, convenient, and equitable
access to high-quality parks, natural areas, trails, and recreational opportunities in their daily lives,
which contribute to their health and well-being. The City manages its natural areas and urban forest to
protect unique urban habitats and offer Portlanders an opportunity to connect with nature.
Goal 8.I: Public safety and emergency response. Portland is a safe, resilient, and peaceful community
where public safety, emergency response, and emergency management facilities and services are
coordinated and able to effectively and efficiently meet community needs.
Goal 8.J: Solid waste management. Residents and businesses have access to waste management
services and are encouraged to be thoughtful consumers to minimize upstream impacts and avoid
generating waste destined for the landfill. Solid waste — including food, yard debris, recyclables,
electronics, and construction and demolition debris — is managed, recycled, and composted to ensure
the highest and best use of materials.
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 56

Goal 8.K: School facilities. Public schools are honored places of learning as well as multifunctional
neighborhood anchors serving Portlanders of all ages, abilities, and cultures.
Goal 8.L: Technology and communications. All Portland residences, businesses, and institutions have
access to universal, affordable, and reliable state-of-the-art communication and technology services.
Goal 8.M: Energy infrastructure and services. Residents, businesses, and institutions are served by
reliable energy infrastructure that provides efficient, low-carbon, affordable energy through decision-
making based on integrated resource planning.
134. Finding: The goals of Chapter 8 do not apply because they require public facilities and services to
be established and maintained, while the BPCU project affects the requirement of bicycle parking
in new development. The adopted 2035 Comprehensive Plan includes the Citywide Systems Plan
(CSP), which was adopted (Ordinance 185657) and acknowledged by LCDC on April 25, 2017. The
CSP includes the Public Facilities Plan with information on current and future transportation,
water, sanitary sewer, and stormwater infrastructure needs and projects. The BPCU project does
not affect the CSP.
Service provision and urbanization
Policy 8.1 Urban services boundary. Maintain an Urban Services Boundary for the City of Portland
that is consistent with the regional urban growth policy, in cooperation with neighboring jurisdictions.
The Urban Services Boundary is shown on the Comprehensive Plan Map.
Policy 8.2 Rural, urbanizable, and urban public facility needs. Recognize the different public facility
needs in rural, urbanizable and urban land as defined by the Regional Urban Growth Boundary, the
City Urban Services Boundary, and the City Boundaries of Municipal Incorporation. See Figure 8-1 —
Urban, Urbanizable, and Rural Lands.
Policy 8.3 Urban service delivery. Provide the following public facilities and services at urban levels of
service to urban lands within the City’s boundaries of incorporation:
 • Public rights-of-way, streets, and public trails
 • Sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment
 • Stormwater management and conveyance
 • Flood management
 • Protection of the waterways of the state
 • Water supply
 • Police, fire, and emergency response
 • Parks, natural areas, and recreation
 • Solid waste regulation
Policy 8.4 Supporting facilities and systems. Maintain supporting facilities and systems, including
public buildings, technology, fleet, and internal service infrastructure, to enable the provision of public
facilities and services.
Policy 8.5 Planning service delivery. Provide planning, zoning, building, and subdivision control
services within the boundaries of incorporation, and as otherwise provided by intergovernmental
agreement within the City’s Urban Services Boundary.
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 57

135. Finding: The policies 8.1 through 8.5 do not apply because the BPCU project affects the
requirement of bicycle parking in new development and the standards do not address service
delivery.
Service Coordination
Policy 8.6 Interagency coordination. Maintain interagency coordination agreements with neighboring
jurisdictions and partner agencies that provide urban public facilities and services within the City of
Portland’s Urban Services Boundary to ensure effective and efficient service delivery. See Policy 8.3 for
the list of services included. Such jurisdictions and agencies include, but may not be limited to:
 • Multnomah County for transportation facilities and public safety.
 • State of Oregon for transportation and parks facilities and services.
 • TriMet for public transit facilities and services.
 • Port of Portland for air and marine facilities and services.
• Metro for regional parks and natural areas, and for solid waste, composting, and recycling
facilities and transfer stations.
• Gresham, Milwaukie, Clackamas County Service District #1, and Clean Water Services for
sanitary sewer conveyance and treatment.
• Multnomah County Drainage District No. 1, Peninsula Drainage District No 1, and Peninsula
Drainage District No. 2 for stormwater management and conveyance, and for flood mitigation,
protection, and control.
• Rockwood People’s Utility District; Sunrise Water Authority; and the Burlington, Tualatin
Valley, Valley View, West Slope, Palatine Hill, Alto Park, and Clackamas River Water Districts for
water distribution.
• Portland Public Schools and the David Douglas, Parkrose, Reynolds, Centennial, and Riverdale
school districts for public education, park, trail, and recreational facilities.
Policy 8.7 Outside contracts. Coordinate with jurisdictions and agencies outside of Portland where the
City provides services under agreement.
136. Finding: The policies 8.6 and 8.7 do not apply because the BPCU project affects the Zoning Code
requirement of bicycle parking in new development and the standards do not address or make
additional interagency agreements or contracts.
Policy 8.8 Public service coordination. Coordinate with the planning efforts of agencies providing
public education, public health services, community centers, urban forest management, library
services, justice services, energy, and technology and communications services.
Policy 8.9 Internal coordination. Coordinate planning and provision of public facilities and services,
including land acquisition, among City agencies, including internal service bureaus.
137. Finding: The BPCU project meets policy 8.8 and 8.9. The BPCU project requires bicycle parking for
public facilities like community centers, parks, libraries and schools, and during the code
development process project staff coordinated with the various agencies as well as public
stakeholders that visit these public facilities
Policy 8.10 Co-location. Encourage co-location of public facilities and services across providers where
co-location improves service delivery efficiency and access for historically under-represented and
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 58

under-served communities.
138. Finding: The policy 8.10 does not apply because the BPCU project affects the requirement of
bicycle parking in new development and the standards do not address co-locating public facilities
or services.
Service extension
Policy 8.11 Annexation. Require annexation of unincorporated urbanizable areas within the City’s
Urban Services Boundary as a prerequisite to receive urban services.
Policy 8.12 Feasibility of service. Evaluate the physical feasibility and cost-effectiveness of extending
urban public services to candidate annexation areas to ensure sensible investment and to set
reasonable expectations.
Policy 8.13 Orderly service extension. Establish or improve urban public services in newly-annexed
areas to serve designated land uses at established levels of service, as funds are available and as
responsible engineering practice allows.
Policy 8.14 Coordination of service extension. Coordinate provision of urban public services to newly-
annexed areas so that provision of any given service does not stimulate development that significantly
hinders the City’s ability to provide other urban services at uniform levels.
Policy 8.15 Services to unincorporated urban pockets. Plan for future delivery of urban services to
urbanizable areas that are within the Urban Services Boundary but outside the city limits.
Policy 8.16 Orderly urbanization. Coordinate with counties, neighboring jurisdictions, and other
special districts to ensure consistent management of annexation requests, and to establish rational
and orderly process of urbanization that maximize efficient use of public funds.
Policy 8.17 Services outside the city limits. Prohibit City provision of new urban services, or expansion
of the capacity of existing services, in areas outside city limits, except in cases where the City has
agreements or contracts in place.
Policy 8.18 Service district expansion. Prohibit service district expansion or creation within the City’s
Urban Services Boundary without the City’s expressed consent.
Policy 8.19 Rural service delivery. Provide the public facilities and services identified in Policy 8.3 in
rural areas only at levels necessary to support designated rural residential land uses and protect public
health and safety. Prohibit sanitary sewer extensions into rural land and limit other urban services.
139. Finding: The policies 8.11 through 8.19 do not apply because the BPCU project affects the
requirement of bicycle parking in new development and the standards do not address standards
related to service extension.
Public investment
Policy 8.20 Regulatory compliance. Ensure public facilities and services remain in compliance with
state and federal regulations. Work toward cost-effective compliance with federal and state mandates
through intergovernmental coordination and problem solving.
Policy 8.21 System capacity. Establish, improve, and maintain public facilities and services at levels
appropriate to support land use patterns, densities, and anticipated residential and employment
growth, as physically feasible and as sufficient funds are available.
Policy 8.22 Equitable service. Provide public facilities and services to alleviate service deficiencies and
meet level-of-service standards for all Portlanders, including individuals, businesses, and property
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 59

owners.
8.22.a. In places that are not expected to grow significantly but have existing deficiencies, invest
to reduce disparity and improve livability.
8.22.b. In places that lack basic public facilities or services and also have significant growth
potential, invest to enhance neighborhoods, fill gaps, maintain affordability, and accommodate
growth.
8.22.c. In places that are not expected to grow significantly and already have access to complete
public facilities and services, invest primarily to maintain existing facilities and retain livability.
8.22.d. In places that already have access to complete public facilities and services, but also
have significant growth potential, invest to fill remaining gaps, maintain affordability, and
accommodate growth.
Policy 8.23 Asset management. Improve and maintain public facility systems using asset management
principles to optimize preventative maintenance, reduce unplanned reactive maintenance, achieve
scheduled service delivery, and protect the quality, reliability, and adequacy of City services.
Policy 8.24 Risk management. Maintain and improve Portland’s public facilities to minimize or
eliminate economic, social, public health and safety, and environmental risks.
Policy 8.25 Critical infrastructure. Increase the resilience of high-risk and critical infrastructure
through monitoring, planning, maintenance, investment, adaptive technology, and continuity
planning.
Policy 8.26 Capital programming. Maintain long-term capital improvement programs that balance
acquisition and construction of new public facilities with maintenance and operations of existing
facilities.
140. Finding: The policies 8.20 through 8.26 do not apply because the BPCU project affects the Zoning
Code requirement of bicycle parking in new development and the standards do not address state
and federal regulatory compliance, system compliance, asset management, risk management,
maintenance, resilience, or programming for public facilities.
Funding
Policy 8.27 Cost-effectiveness. Establish, improve, and maintain the public facilities necessary to serve
designated land uses in ways that cost-effectively provide desired levels of service, consider facilities’
lifecycle costs, and maintain the City’s long-term financial sustainability.
Policy 8.28 Shared costs. Ensure the costs of constructing and providing public facilities and services
are equitably shared by those who benefit from the provision of those facilities and services.
Policy 8.29 System development. Require private or public entities whose prospective development
or redevelopment actions contribute to the need for public facility improvements, extensions, or
construction to bear a proportional share of the costs.
Policy 8.30 Partnerships. Maintain or establish public and private partnerships for the development,
management, or stewardship of public facilities necessary to serve designated land uses, as
appropriate.
141. Finding: The policies 8.27 through 8.30 do not apply because the BPCU project affects the
requirement of bicycle parking on-site for new development and does not impose bicycle parking
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 60

requirements to provide public bicycle parking that meets the greater City demand for bicycle
parking outside of those generated by the specific land use.
Public benefits
Policy 8.31 Application of Guiding Principles. Plan and invest in public facilities in ways that promote
and balance the Guiding Principles established in The Vision and Guiding Principles of this
Comprehensive Plan.
Policy 8.32 Community benefits. Encourage providing additional community benefits with large public
facility projects as appropriate to address environmental justice policies in Chapter 2: Community
Involvement.
Policy 8.33 Community knowledge and experience. Encourage public engagement processes and
strategies for large public facility projects to include community members in identifying potential
impacts, mitigation measures, and community benefits.
Policy 8.34 Resource efficiency. Reduce the energy and resource use, waste, and carbon emissions
from facilities necessary to serve designated land uses to meet adopted City goals and targets.
Policy 8.35 Natural systems. Protect, enhance, and restore natural systems and features for their
infrastructure service and other values.
Policy 8.36 Context-sensitive infrastructure. Design, improve, and maintain public rights-of-way and
facilities in ways that are compatible with, and that minimize negative impacts on, their physical,
environmental, and community context.
Policy 8.37 Site- and area-specific needs. Allow for site- and area-specific public facility standards,
requirements, tools, and policies as needed to address distinct topographical, geologic,
environmental, and other conditions.
Policy 8.38 Age-friendly public facilities. Promote public facility designs that make Portland more age-
friendly.
142. Finding: The policies 8.31 through 8.38 do not apply because the BPCU project affects the
requirement of bicycle parking on-site for new development and does not impose public facility or
public right-of-way requirements.
Public rights-of-way
Policy 8.39 Interconnected network. Establish a safe and connected rights-of-way system that
equitably provides infrastructure services throughout the city.
Policy 8.40 Transportation function. Improve and maintain the right-of-way to support multimodal
transportation mobility and access to goods and services as is consistent with the designated street
classification.
Policy 8.41 Utility function. Improve and maintain the right-of-way to support equitable distribution
of utilities, including water, sanitary sewer, stormwater management, energy, and communications, as
appropriate.
Policy 8.42 Stormwater management function. Improve rights-of-way to integrate green
infrastructure and other stormwater management facilities to meet desired levels-of-service and
economic, social, and environmental objectives.
Policy 8.43 Trees in rights-of-way. Integrate trees into public rights-of-way to support City canopy
goals, transportation functions, and economic, social, and environmental objectives.
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 61

Policy 8.44 Community uses. Allow community use of rights-of-way for purposes such as public
gathering space, events, food production, or temporary festivals, as long as the community uses are
integrated in ways that balance and minimize conflict with the designated through movement and
access roles of rights-of-ways.
Policy 8.45 Pedestrian amenities. Encourage facilities that enhance pedestrian enjoyment, such as
transit shelters, garbage containers, benches, etc. in the right of way. Policy 8.46 Commercial uses.
Accommodate allowable commercial uses of the rights-of-way for the purpose of enhancing
commercial vitality, if the commercial uses can be integrated in ways that balance and minimize
conflict with the other functions of the right-of-way. Restrict the size of signage in the right-of-way.
Policy 8.47 Flexible design. Allow flexibility in right-of-way design and development standards to
appropriately reflect the pattern area and other relevant physical, community, and environmental
contexts and local needs.
8.47.a. Use a variety of transportation resources in developing and designing projects for all City
streets, such as the City of Portland’s Pedestrian Design Guide, Bicycle Master Plan- Appendix A,
NACTO Urban Bikeway Design Guide, NACTO Urban Street Design Guide, Portland Parks and
Recreation Trail Design Guidelines, Designing for Truck Movements and Other Large Vehicles,
and City of Portland Green Street Policy, Stormwater Management Manual, Design Guide for
Public Street Improvements, and Neighborhood Greenways.
Policy 8.48 Corridors and City Greenways. Ensure public facilities located along Civic Corridors,
Neighborhood Corridors, and City Greenways support the multiple objectives established for these
corridors. Corridor and City Greenway goals and policies are listed in Chapter 3: Urban Form.
Policy 8.49 Coordination. Coordinate the planning, design, development, improvement, and
maintenance of public rights-of-way among appropriate public agencies, private providers, and
adjacent landowners.
8.49.a. Coordination efforts should include the public facilities necessary to support the uses
and functions of rights-of-way, as established in policies 8.40 to 8.46.
8.49.b. Coordinate transportation and stormwater system plans and investments, especially in
unimproved or substandard rights-of-way, to improve water quality, public safety, including for
pedestrians and bicyclists, and neighborhood livability.
Policy 8.50 Undergrounding. Encourage undergrounding of electrical and telecommunications
facilities within public rights-of-way, especially in centers and along Civic Corridors.
Policy 8.51 Right-of-way vacations. Maintain rights-of-way if there is an established existing or future
need for them, such as for transportation facilities or for other public functions established in policies
8.40 to 8.46.
Policy 8.52 Rail rights-of-way. Preserve existing and abandoned rail rights-of-way for future rail or
public trail uses.
143. Finding: The policies 8.39 through 8.52 do not apply because the BPCU project affects the
requirement of bicycle parking on-site for new development and does not impact the design of
public right-of-way requirements.
Trails
Policy 8.53 Public trails. Establish, improve, and maintain a citywide system of local and regional
public trails that provide transportation and/or recreation options and are a component of larger
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 62

network of facilities for bicyclists, pedestrians, and recreational users.
Policy 8.54 Trail system connectivity. Plan, improve, and maintain the citywide trail system so that it
connects and improves access to Portland’s neighborhoods, commercial areas, employment centers,
schools, parks, natural areas, recreational facilities, regional destinations, the regional trail system,
and other key places that Portlanders access in their daily lives.
Policy 8.55 Trail coordination. Coordinate planning, design, improvement, and maintenance of the
trail system among City agencies, other public agencies, non-governmental partners, and adjacent
landowners.
Policy 8.56 Trail diversity. Allow a variety of trail types to reflect a trail’s transportation and recreation
roles, requirements, and physical context.
Policy 8.57 Public access requirements. Require public access and improvement of Major Public Trails
as shown in Figure 8-2 — Major Public Trails. Major Public Trails include regional trails and other
significant trail connections that provide for the movement of pedestrians, cyclists, and other users for
recreation and transportation purposes.
Policy 8.58 Trail and City Greenway coordination. Coordinate the planning and improvement of trails
as part of the City Greenways system. See Chapter 3: Urban Form for additional policies related to City
Greenways.
Policy 8.59 Trail and Habitat Corridor coordination. Coordinate the planning and improvement of
trails with the establishment, enhancement, preservation, and access to habitat corridors. See Chapter
3: Urban Form for additional policies related to Habitat Corridors.
Policy 8.60 Intertwine coordination. Coordinate with the Intertwine Alliance and its partners,
including local and regional parks providers, to integrate Portland’s trail and active transportation
network with the bi-state regional trail system.
144. Finding: The policies 8.53 through 8.60 do not apply because the BPCU project affects the
requirement of bicycle parking in new development and the standards do not address standards
related to trails.
Sanitary system
Policy 8.61 Sewer connections. Require all developments within the city limits to be connected to
sanitary sewers unless the public sanitary system is not physically or legally available per City Code and
state requirements; or the existing onsite septic system is functioning properly without failure or
complaints per City Code and state requirements; and the system has all necessary state and county
permits.
Policy 8.62 Combined sewer overflows. Provide adequate public facilities to limit combined sewer
overflows to frequencies established by regulatory permits.
Policy 8.63 Sanitary sewer overflows. Provide adequate public facilities to prevent sewage releases to
surface waters as consistent with regulatory permits.
Policy 8.64 Private sewage treatment systems. Adopt land use regulations that require any proposed
private sewage treatment system to demonstrate that all necessary state and county permits are
obtained. Policy 8.65 Sewer extensions. Prioritize sewer system extensions to areas that are already
developed at urban densities and where health hazards exist.
Policy 8.66 Pollution prevention. Reduce the need for wastewater treatment capacity through land
use programs and public facility investments that manage pollution as close to its source as practical
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 63

and that reduce the amount of pollution entering the sanitary system.
Policy 8.67 Treatment. Provide adequate wastewater treatment facilities to ensure compliance with
effluent standards established in regulatory permits.
145. Finding: The policies 8.61 through 8.67 do not apply because the BPCU project affects the
requirement of bicycle parking in new development and the standards do not address standards
related to sanitary systems.
Stormwater system
Policy 8.68 Stormwater facilities. Provide adequate stormwater facilities for conveyance, flow control,
and pollution reduction.
Policy 8.69 Stormwater as a resource. Manage stormwater as a resource for watershed health and
public use in ways that protect and restore the natural hydrology, water quality, and habitat of
Portland’s watersheds.
Policy 8.70 Natural systems. Protect and enhance the stormwater management capacity of natural
resources such as rivers, streams, creeks, drainageways, wetlands, and floodplains.
Policy 8.71 Green infrastructure. Promote the use of green infrastructure, such as natural areas, the
urban forest, and landscaped stormwater facilities, to manage stormwater.
Policy 8.72 Stormwater discharge. Avoid or minimize the impact of stormwater discharges on the
water and habitat quality of rivers and streams.
Policy 8.73 On-site stormwater management. Encourage on-site stormwater management, or
management as close to the source as practical, through land use decisions and public facility
investments.
Policy 8.74 Pollution prevention. Coordinate policies, programs, and investments with partners to
prevent pollutants from entering the stormwater system by managing point and non-point pollution
sources through public and private facilities, local regulations, and education.
Policy 8.75 Stormwater partnerships. Provide stormwater management through coordinated public
and private facilities, public-private partnerships, and community stewardship.
146. Finding: The policies 8.68 through 8.75 do not apply because the BPCU project affects the
requirement of bicycle parking in new development and the standards do not address standards
related to stormwater systems in Portland.
Flood management
Policy 8.76 Flood management. Improve and maintain the functions of natural and managed
drainageways, wetlands, and floodplains to protect health, safety, and property, provide water
conveyance and storage, improve water quality, and maintain and enhance fish and wildlife habitat.
Policy 8.77 Floodplain management. Manage floodplains to protect and restore associated natural
resources and functions and to minimize the risks to life and property from flooding.
Policy 8.78 Floodplain management facilities. Establish, improve, and maintain flood management
facilities to serve designated land uses through planning, investment and regulatory requirements.
Policy 8.79 Drainage district coordination. Coordinate with drainage districts that provide stormwater
management, conveyance, and flood mitigation, protection, and control services within the City’s
Urban Services Boundary.
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 64

Policy 8.80 Levee coordination. Coordinate plans and investments with special districts and agencies
responsible for managing and maintaining certification of levees along the Columbia River.
147. Finding: The policies 8.76 through 8.80 do not apply because the BPCU project affects the
requirement of bicycle parking in new development and the standards do not address standards
related to flood management.
Water systems
Policy 8.81 Primary supply source. Protect the Bull Run watershed as the primary water supply source
for Portland.
Policy 8.82 Bull Run protection. Maintain a source-protection program and practices to safeguard the
Bull Run watershed as a drinking water supply.
Policy 8.83 Secondary supply sources. Protect, improve, and maintain the Columbia South Shore
wellfield groundwater system, the Powell Valley wellfield groundwater system, and any other
alternative water sources designated as secondary water supplies.
Policy 8.84 Groundwater wellfield protection. Maintain a groundwater protection program and
practices to safeguard the Columbia South Shore wellfield and the Powell Valley wellfield as drinking
water supplies.
Policy 8.85 Water quality. Maintain compliance with state and federal drinking water quality
regulations.
Policy 8.86 Storage. Provide sufficient in-city water storage capacity to serve designated land uses,
meet demand fluctuations, maintain system pressure, and ensure supply reliability.
Policy 8.87 Fire protection. Provide adequate water facilities to serve the fire protection needs of all
Portlanders and businesses.
Policy 8.88 Water pressure. Provide adequate water facilities to maintain water pressure in order to
protect water quality and provide for the needs of customers.
Policy 8.89 Water efficiency. Reduce the need for additional water facility capacity and maintain
compliance with state water resource regulations by encouraging efficient use of water by customers
within the city.
Policy 8.90 Service interruptions. Maintain and improve water facilities to limit interruptions in water
service to customers.
Policy 8.91 Outside user contracts. Coordinate long-term water supply planning and delivery with
outside-city water purveyors through long-term wholesale contracts.
148. Finding: The policies 8.81 through 8.91 do not apply because the BPCU project affects the
requirement of bicycle parking in new development and the standards do not address standards
related to water systems in Portland.
Parks and recreation
Policy 8.92 Acquisition, development, and maintenance. Provide and maintain an adequate supply
and variety of parkland and recreational facilities to serve the city’s current and future population
based on identified level-of-service standards and community needs.
Policy 8.93 Service equity. Invest in acquisition and development of parks and recreation facilities in
areas where service-level deficiencies exist.
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 65

Policy 8.94 Capital programming. Maintain a long-range park capital improvement program, with
criteria that considers acquisition, development, and operations; provides opportunities for public
input; and emphasizes creative and flexible financing strategies.
Policy 8.95 Park planning. Improve parks, recreational facilities, natural areas, and the urban forest in
accordance with relevant master plans, management plans, or adopted strategies that reflect user
group needs, development priorities, development and maintenance costs, program opportunities,
financing strategies, and community input. Consider developing master or management plans for
properties that lack guiding plans or strategies.
Policy 8.96 Recreational trails. Establish, improve, and maintain a complete and connected system of
Major Public Trails that provide recreational opportunities and that can serve transportation functions
consistent with policies 8.53 through 8.60 and other City trail policies and plans.
Policy 8.97 Natural resources. Preserve, enhance, and manage City-owned natural areas and
resources to protect and improve their ecological health, in accordance with both the natural area
acquisition and restoration strategies, and to provide compatible public access.
Policy 8.98 Urban forest management. Manage urban trees as green infrastructure with associated
ecological, community, and economic functions, through planning, planting, and maintenance
activities, education, and regulation. See also Policy 7.10. Policy 8.99 Recreational facilities. Provide a
variety of recreational facilities and services that contribute to the health and well-being of
Portlanders of all ages and abilities.
Policy 8.100 Self-sustaining Portland International Raceway (PIR). Provide for financially self-
sustaining operations of PIR, and broaden its programs and activities to appeal to families, diverse
communities, and non-motorized sports such as biking and running.
Policy 8.101 Self-sustaining and inclusive golf facilities. Provide financially self-sustaining public golf
course operations. Diversify these assets to attract new users, grow the game, provide more
introductory-level programming, and expand into other related recreational opportunities such as foot
golf and disk golf.
Policy 8.102 Specialized recreational facilities. Establish and manage specialized facilities within the
park system that take advantage of land assets and that respond to diverse, basic, and emerging
recreational needs.
Policy 8.103 Public-private partnerships. Encourage public-private partnerships to develop and
operate publicly-accessible recreational facilities that meet identified public needs.
149. Finding: The policies 8.92 through 8.103 do not apply because the BPCU project affects the
requirement of bicycle parking in new development and the standards do not address standards
related to parks and recreation facilities.  The BPCU project requires bicycle parking for parks and
open spaces.
Public safety and emergency response
Policy 8.104 Emergency preparedness, response, and recovery coordination. Coordinate land use
plans and public facility investments between City bureaus, other public and jurisdictional agencies,
businesses, community partners, and other emergency response providers, to ensure coordinated and
comprehensive emergency and disaster risk reduction, preparedness, response, and recovery.
Policy 8.105 Emergency management facilities. Provide adequate public facilities – such as
emergency coordination centers, communications infrastructure, and dispatch systems – to support
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 66

emergency management, response, and recovery.
Policy 8.106 Police facilities. Improve and maintain police facilities to allow police personnel to
efficiently and effectively respond to public safety needs and serve designated land uses.
Policy 8.107 Community safety centers. Establish, coordinate, and co-locate public safety and other
community services in centers.
Policy 8.108 Fire facilities. Improve and maintain fire facilities to serve designated land uses, ensure
equitable and reliable response, and provide fire and life safety protection that meets or exceeds
minimum established service levels.
Policy 8.109 Mutual aid. Maintain mutual aid coordination with regional emergency response
providers as appropriate to protect life and ensure safety.
Policy 8.110 Community preparedness. Enhance community preparedness and capacity to prevent,
withstand, and recover from emergencies and natural disasters through land use decisions and public
facility investments.
Policy 8.111 Continuity of operations. Maintain and enhance the City's ability to withstand and
recover from natural disasters and human-made disruptions in order to minimize disruptions to public
services.
150. Finding: The policies 8.104 through 8.111 do not apply because the BPCU project affects the
requirement of bicycle parking in new development and the standards do not address standards
related to coordination of emergency preparedness in Portland.
Solid waste management
Policy 8.112 Waste management. Ensure land use programs, rights-of-way regulations, and public
facility investments allow the City to manage waste effectively and prioritize waste management in
the following order: waste reduction, recycling, anaerobic digestion, composting, energy recovery, and
then landfill.
151. Finding: This policy does not apply because the BPCU project affects the requirement of bicycle
parking in new development and the standards do not address solid waste management.
School facilities
Policy 8.113 School district capacity. Consider the overall enrollment capacity of a school district – as
defined in an adopted school facility plan that meets the requirements of Oregon Revised Statute 195
– as a factor in land use decisions that increase capacity for residential development.
152. Finding: This policy does not apply because the BPCU project affects the requirement of bicycle
parking in new development and the standards do not address increasing capacity for residential
development.
Policy 8.114 Facilities planning. Facilitate coordinated planning among school districts and City
bureaus, including Portland Parks and Recreation, to accommodate school site/facility needs in
response to most up-to-date growth forecasts.
153. Finding: The BPCU project meets this policy. Project staff used current school attendance rates
and staffing capacity to calculate the amount of required bicycle parking for schools K-8 and 9-12.
Policy 8.115 Co-location. Encourage public school districts, Multnomah County, the City of Portland,
and other providers to co-locate facilities and programs in ways that optimize service provision and
intergenerational and intercultural use.
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 67

154. Finding: This policy does not apply because the BPCU project affects the requirement of bicycle
parking in new development and the standards do not address co-location of school facilities for
intergenerational and intercultural use.
Policy 8.116 Community use. Encourage public use of public school grounds for community purposes
while meeting educational and student safety needs and balancing impacts on surrounding
neighborhoods.
Policy 8.117 Recreational use. Encourage publicly-available recreational amenities (e.g. athletic fields,
green spaces, community gardens, and playgrounds) on public school grounds for public recreational
use, particularly in neighborhoods with limited access to parks.
155. Finding: The BPCU project meet Policies 8.116 and 8.117. The BPCU project ensures there is
adequate bicycle parking for new developments, including schools. This bicycle parking on school
property can be used for community purposes during non-school hours for community members
to access the site by bicycle.
Policy 8.118 Schools as emergency aid centers. Encourage the use of seismically-safe school facilities
as gathering and aid-distribution locations during natural disasters and other emergencies.
Policy 8.119 Facility adaptability. Ensure that public schools may be upgraded to flexibly
accommodate multiple community-serving uses and adapt to changes in educational approaches,
technology, and student needs over time.
Policy 8.120 Leverage public investment. Encourage City public facility investments that complement
and leverage local public school districts’ major capital investments.
156. Finding: The policies 8.118 through 8.120 do not apply because the BPCU project affects the
requirement of bicycle parking in new development and the standards do not address the
recreational amenities, facility adaptability or complementary capital investments at public
schools.
Policy 8.121 School access. Encourage public school districts to consider the ability of students to
safely walk and bike to school when making decisions about the site locations and attendance
boundaries of schools.
157. Finding: This policy does not apply because the BPCU project affects the requirement of bicycle
parking in new development and the standards do not address school site locations and
attendance boundaries.
Policy 8.122 Private institutions. Encourage collaboration with private schools and educational
institutions to support community and recreational use of their facilities.
158. Finding: This policy does not apply because the BPCU project affects the requirement of bicycle
parking in new development and the standards do not address private schools and the
recreational use of those facilities.
Technology and communications
Policy 8.123 Technology and communication systems. Maintain and enhance the City’s technology
and communication facilities to ensure public safety, facilitate access to information, and maintain
City operations.
Policy 8.124 Equity, capacity, and reliability. Encourage plans and investments in technology and
communication infrastructure to ensure access in all areas of the city, reduce disparities in capacity,
and affordability, and to provide innovative high-performance, reliable service for Portland’s residents
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 68

and businesses.
159. Finding: The policies 8.123 and 8.124 do not apply because the BPCU project affects the
requirement of bicycle parking in new development and the standards do not address technology
and communication systems.
Energy infrastructure
Policy 8.125 Energy efficiency. Promote efficient and sustainable production and use of energy
resources by residents and businesses, including low-carbon renewable energy sources, district energy
systems, and distributed generation, through land use plans, zoning, and other legislative land use
decisions.
Policy 8.126 Coordination. Coordinate with energy providers to encourage investments that ensure
reliable, equitable, efficient, and affordable energy for Portland residents and businesses.
160. Finding: The policies 8.125 and 8.126 do not apply. While the BPCU project makes it easier for
people in Portland to use bicycles, which is a low-emissions mode of transportation the standards
do not directly address energy generation or infrastructure.
Chapter 9 Transportation
GOAL 9.A: Safety. Transportation safety impacts the livability of a city and the comfort and security of
those using City streets. Comprehensive efforts to improve transportation safety through engineering,
education, enforcement and evaluation will be used to eliminate traffic-related fatalities and serious
injuries from Portland’s transportation system.
161. Finding: This goal does not apply because the BPCU project addresses standards for bicycle
parking in new development and does not address safety engineering, education or enforcement
measures.
Goal 9.B: Multiple goals. Portland’s transportation system is funded and maintained to achieve
multiple goals and measurable outcomes for people and the environment. The transportation system
is safe, complete, interconnected, multimodal, and fulfills daily needs for people and businesses.
GOAL 9.C: Great places. Portland’s transportation system enhances quality of life for all Portlanders,
reinforces existing neighborhoods and great places, and helps make new great places in town centers,
neighborhood centers and corridors, and civic corridors.
162. Finding: The BPCU project meets Goals 9.B. and 9.C. The BPCU project will increase the supply of
bicycle parking which supports bicycling, a low-carbon, active transportation option. Promoting
active transportation is one of Portland’s key strategies to reduce impacts on the environment,
increase positive public health outcomes, and enhance neighborhood livability.
GOAL 9.D: Environmentally sustainable. The transportation system increasingly uses active
transportation, renewable energy, or electricity from renewable sources, achieves adopted carbon
reduction targets, and reduces air pollution, water pollution, noise, and Portlanders’ reliance on
private vehicles.
163. Finding: The BPCU project meets this goal. The BPCU project will increase the supply of bicycle
parking which supports bicycling, a low-carbon, active transportation option. Promoting active
transportation is one of the key strategies to reduce carbon emissions from the transportation
sector.
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 69

GOAL 9.E: Equitable transportation. The transportation system provides all Portlanders options to
move about the city and meet their daily needs by using a variety of safe, efficient, convenient, and
affordable modes of transportation. Transportation investments are responsive to the distinct needs
of each community.
164. Finding: The BPCU project meets this goal because it establishes standards for bicycle parking that
requires the provision of convenient, accessible, secure bicycle parking in new construction
throughout the city, making it easier for Portlanders to bicycle for transportation. Additionally, the
BPCU considers the needs of people with a range of abilities. For example, amendments include
standards to require bicycle parking spaces that can accommodate other sized bikes like tricycles,
family sized bikes and hand cycles. Additionally, for larger developments standards require that a
percentage of bicycle racks must allow for horizontal bicycle parking, so people don’t have to lift
their bike onto a wall-mounted, vertical bike rack.
GOAL 9.F: Positive health outcomes. The transportation system promotes positive health outcomes
and minimizes negative impacts for all Portlanders by supporting active transportation, physical
activity, and community and individual health.
165.  Finding: The BPCU project meets this goal because the project requires safe, convenient bicycle
parking in new development, which supports bicycling for transportation and recreation,
supporting people to be more active in their daily lives. Regular physical activity, including the use
of active transportation, helps improve overall health and fitness and reduces risk for many
chronic diseases.
GOAL 9.G: Opportunities for prosperity. The transportation system supports a strong and diverse
economy, enhances the competitiveness of the city and region, and maintains Portland’s role as a
West Coast trade gateway and freight hub by providing efficient and reliable goods movement,
multimodal access to employment areas and educational institutions, as well as enhanced freight
access to industrial areas and intermodal freight facilities. The transportation system helps people and
businesses reduce spending and keep money in the local economy by providing affordable alternatives
to driving.
166. Finding: The BPCU project advances this goal by supporting low-cost, low-carbon transportation
options for all Portlanders to a variety of destinations, including employment areas and
educational institutions. Transportation is the second highest household cost and owning a car can
cost a family approximately $8,500 a year. The project supports low-cost, active transportation
options which can provide tangible economic benefits to individuals and households across
Portland.
Designing and planning
Policy 9.1. Street design classifications. Maintain and implement street design classifications
consistent with land use plans, environmental context, urban design pattern areas, and the
Neighborhood Corridor and Civic Corridor Urban Design Framework designations.
Policy 9.2. Street policy classifications. Maintain and implement street policy classifications for
pedestrian, bicycle, transit, freight, emergency vehicle, and automotive movement, while considering
access for all modes, connectivity, adjacent planned land uses, and state and regional requirements.
9.2.a. Designate district classifications that emphasize freight mobility and access in industrial
and employment areas serving high levels of truck traffic and to accommodate the needs of
intermodal freight movement.
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 70

9.2.b. Designate district classifications that give priority to pedestrian access in areas where high
levels of pedestrian activity exist or are planned, including the Central City, Gateway regional
center, town centers, neighborhood centers, and transit station areas.
9.2.c. Designate district classifications that give priority to bicycle access and mobility in areas
where high levels of bicycle activity exist or are planned, including Downtown, the River District,
Lloyd District, Gateway Regional Center, town centers, neighborhood centers, and transit station
areas.
167. Finding: The policies 9.1 and 9.2 do not apply because the BPCU project affects the requirement of
bicycle parking in new development and do not address street design or policy classifications.
Policy 9.3. Transportation System Plan. Maintain and implement the Transportation System Plan
(TSP) as the decision-making tool for transportation-related projects, policies, programs, and street
design.
168. Finding: The BPCU project meets this goal. The BPCU project used the mode split goals for the five
Pattern Areas outlined in the TSP to determine the amounts of required bicycle parking for all use
categories.
The TSP policies include bicycle parking under its Parking Management Policies and calls for
requiring the provision of adequate off-street bicycle parking for new development and
redevelopment; encouraging the provision of parking for different types of bicycles; and
establishing standards for long-term bicycle parking that consider the needs of persons with
different levels of ability. Thus, the BPCU project helps implement the TSP.
Policy 9.4. Use of classifications. Plan, develop, implement, and manage the transportation system in
accordance with street design and policy classifications outlined in the Transportation System Plan.
9.4.a. Classification descriptions are used to describe how streets should function for each mode
of travel, not necessarily how they are functioning at present.
169. Finding: This policy does not apply because the BPCU project affects the requirement of bicycle
parking in new development and does not address street classifications.
Policy 9.5. Mode share goals and Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) reduction. Increase the share of trips
made using active and low-carbon transportation modes. Reduce VMT to achieve targets set in the
most current Climate Action Plan and Transportation System Plan, and meet or exceed Metro’s mode
share and VMT targets.
170. Finding: The BPCU project meets this policy. The BPCU project requires the provision of safe,
accessible, convenient bicycle parking in new construction. This supports the use of bicycling, an
active and zero-emission mode, for trips.
The Climate Action Plan calls for a reduction in daily vehicle miles traveled by 30 percent from
2008 levels by 2030 and to create vibrant neighborhoods where 80 percent of residents can easily
walk or bicycle to meet all basic non-work needs and have a safe pedestrian or bicycle access to
transit.
The following mode split goals are outlined in the Portland Bicycle Plan for 2030 and the TSP:
• Portland Bicycle Plan for 2030 – 25% bicycle mode split of all trips by 2030
• Transportation System Plan – 25% bicycle mode split for commute trips by 2035
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 71

171. Finding: Several research papers have found that secure bicycle parking plays a significant role in
mode choice, for example bicycle parking and cyclist showers are related to higher levels of bike
commuting1 and bicycle parking is identified as a significant factor in whether infrequent,
potential and non-cyclists choose to commute by bicycle or not.2
Additionally, a number of City of Portland studies and surveys have provided strong evidence that
people will not ride a bicycle if they don’t have a designated and secure place to park their bicycle
(this information can also be found in the Recommended Draft Report):
• SmartTrips Downtown Participant Survey – 37 percent of respondents said providing
secure bike parking or lockers would help them bike more – this was second to only
offering monetary incentives.
• Central Eastside Survey – 52 percent of residents reported that more bike parking
would help them drive less.
Policy 9.6. Transportation strategy for people movement. Design the system to accommodate the
most vulnerable users, including those that need special accommodation under the Americans with
Disabilities Act (ADA). Implement a prioritization of modes for people movement by making
transportation system decisions per the following ordered list:
1. Walking
2. Bicycling
3. Transit
4. Fleets of electric, fully automated, multiple passenger vehicles
5. Other shared vehicles
6. Low or no occupancy vehicles, fossil-fueled non-transit vehicles
When implementing this prioritization ensure that:
• The needs and safety of each group of users are considered, and changes do not make
existing conditions worse for the most vulnerable users.
• All users’ needs are balanced with the intent of optimizing the right of way for multiple
modes on the same street.
• When necessary to ensure safety, accommodate some users on parallel streets as part
of multi-street corridors.
• Land use and system plans, network functionality for all modes, other street functions,
and complete street policies, are maintained.
• Policy-based rationale is provided if modes lower in the ordered list are prioritized.
172. Finding: The BPCU project meets this policy. The BPCU project requires the provision of safe,
accessible, convenient bicycle parking in new construction. This supports the bicycling, which is
second in the TSP hierarchy of modes.
One of the major themes of the BPCU project, as identified in the Stakeholder Advisory
Committee’s Guiding Principles (see Recommended Draft Section III), was Accessible and
Convenient Bicycle Parking that accommodates users of all ages and all abilities as well as a variety

1 Buehler, Ralph, “Trends and Determinants of Cycling in the Washington, D.C.” Transportation Research Part D,
Vol 17, No. 7, 2012, pp.525-531
2 Wang, JYT, Mirza, L, Cheung, AKL et al., 2014, Understanding factors influencing choices of cyclists and potential
cyclists: A case study at the University of Auckland. Road and Transport Research: A Journal of Australian and New
Zealand Research and Practice, 23(4). 37-51.
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 72

of different types of bicycles. This principle led to the inclusion of bicycle parking standards that
require the provision of bicycle parking spaces for larger bicycles (including, but not limited to,
tricycle and handcycles) in developments that have more than 20 required long-term bicycle
parking spaces.
Policy 9.7. Moving goods and delivering services. In tandem with people movement, maintain
efficient and reliable movement of goods and services as a critical transportation system function.
Prioritize freight system reliability improvements over single-occupancy vehicle mobility where there
are solutions that distinctly address those different needs.
173. Finding: This policy does not apply because the BPCU project affects the requirement of bicycle
parking in new development and does not directly address policies or standards for prioritizing
freight or improving freight reliability.
Policy 9.8. Affordability. Improve and maintain the transportation system to increase access to
convenient and affordable transportation options for all Portlanders, especially those who have
traditionally been under-served or under-represented or have historically borne unequal burdens.
174. Finding: The BPCU supports this policy. The BPCU project requires the provision of safe,
accessible, convenient bicycle parking in new construction. This supports the use of bicycling, a
convenient and affordable transportation option, for trips. Lack of secure bicycle parking is a
barrier for under-served and under-represented people to using a bicycle for transportation or
recreation, particularly those living in multi-dwelling buildings.
Policy 9.9. Accessible and age-friendly transportation system. Ensure that transportation facilities are
accessible to people of all ages and abilities, and that all improvements to the transportation system
(traffic, transit, bicycle, and pedestrian) in the public right-of-way comply with the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990. Improve and adapt the transportation system to better meet the needs of the
most vulnerable users, including the young, older adults, and people with different abilities.
175. Finding: The BPCU project meets this policy because it establishes standards for bicycle parking
that requires the provision of convenient, accessible, secure bicycle parking in new construction
throughout the city, making it easier for Portlanders to bicycle for transportation. Additionally, the
BPCU considers the needs of people with a range of abilities. For example, amendments include
standards to require bicycle parking spaces that can accommodate other sized bikes like tricycles,
family sized bikes and hand cycles. Additionally, for larger developments, new standards require
that a percentage of bicycle racks must allow for horizontal bicycle parking, so people don’t have
to lift their bike onto a wall-mounted, vertical bike rack.
Policy 9.10. Geographic policies. Adopt geographically-specific policies in the Transportation System
Plan to ensure that transportation infrastructure reflects the unique topography, historic character,
natural features, system gaps, economic needs, demographics, and land uses of each area. Use the
Pattern Areas identified in Chapter 3: Urban Form as the basis for area policies.
9.10.a. Refer to adopted area plans for additional applicable geographic objectives related to
transportation. Land use, development, and placemaking
176. Finding: The BPCU project meets this policy. The BPCU project stipulates the amount of required
bicycle parking based on Pattern Areas. The amendments expand the tiered approach in current
code and acknowledges that a one-size fits all approach does not necessarily work for
development across Portland. The amendments use the Transportation System Plan (TSP) target
mode split rates for the five different Pattern Areas when developing the required amount of
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 73

bicycle parking for each use category. The standards require greater bicycle parking capacity in the
Inner Neighborhoods (identified as a Pattern Area) and Gateway and Swan Island.
Land use, development, and placemaking
Policy 9.11. Land use and transportation coordination. Implement the Comprehensive Plan Map and
the Urban Design Framework though coordinated long-range transportation and land use planning.
Ensure that street policy and design classifications and land uses complement one another.
Policy 9.12. Growth strategy. Use street design and policy classifications to support Goals 3A-3G in
Chapter 3: Urban Form. Consider the different design contexts and transportation functions in Town
Centers, Neighborhood Centers, Neighborhood Corridors, Employment Areas, Freight Corridors, Civic
Corridors, Transit Station Areas, and Greenways.
Policy 9.13. Development and street design. Evaluate adjacent land uses to help inform street
classifications in framing, shaping, and activating the public space of streets. Guide development and
land use to create the kinds of places and street environments intended for different types of streets.
177. Finding: The policies 9.11 through 9.13 do not apply because the BPCU project affects the
requirement of bicycle parking in new development and do not address street design frameworks.
Streets as public spaces
Policy 9.14. Streets for transportation and public spaces. Integrate both placemaking and
transportation functions when designing and managing streets by encouraging design, development,
and operation of streets to enhance opportunities for them to serve as places for community
interaction, environmental function, open space, tree canopy, recreation, and other community
purposes.
Policy 9.15. Repurposing street space. Encourage repurposing street segments that are not critical for
transportation connectivity to other community purposes.
Policy 9.16. Design with nature. Promote street alignments and designs that respond to topography
and natural features, when feasible, and protect streams, wildlife habitat, and native trees.
178. Finding: The policies 9.14 through 9.16 do not apply because the BPCU project affects the
requirement of bicycle parking in new development and do not address placemaking elements.
Modal policies
Policy 9.17. Pedestrian transportation. Encourage walking as the most attractive mode of
transportation for most short trips, within and to centers, corridors, and major destinations, and as a
means for accessing transit.
Policy 9.18. Pedestrian networks. Create more complete networks of pedestrian facilities, and
improve the quality of the pedestrian environment.
Policy 9.19. Pedestrian safety and accessibility. Improve pedestrian safety, accessibility, and
convenience for people of all ages and abilities.
179. Finding: The policies 9.17 through 9.19 do not apply because the BPCU project affects the
requirement of bicycle parking in new development and do not address pedestrian policies and
network.
Policy 9.20. Bicycle transportation. Create conditions that make bicycling more attractive than driving
for most trips of approximately three miles or less.
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 74

180. Finding: The BPCU project meets this policy. The BPCU project requires the provision of safe,
accessible, convenient bicycle parking in new construction. This creates conditions that support
the use of bicycling for all trips. As addressed in the Recommended Draft Report – nearly 45% of
all trips made by car in the Portland region are less than 3 miles – and it is PBOT’s goal to shift
these shorter trips to bicycling.
Policy 9.21. Accessible bicycle system. Create a bicycle transportation system that is safe,
comfortable, and accessible to people of all ages and abilities.
181. Finding: The BPCU project meets this policy. The BPCU project requires the provision of safe,
accessible, convenient bicycle parking in new construction. The standards include requirements
for parking that accommodates different types of bicycles, such as cargo bicycles and electric
bicycles and a range of users, including those who cannot lift bicycles onto a vertical rack. This
supports the use of bicycling for users with a range of abilities.
Policy 9.22. Public transportation. Coordinate with public transit agencies to create conditions that
make transit the preferred mode of travel for trips that are not made by walking or bicycling.
182. Finding: The BPCU project meets this policy. The BPCU project requires the provision of safe,
accessible, convenient bicycle parking in new construction, including standards for Transit Centers
and Light Rail Stations. These standards create conditions that support the use of bicycling for
trips and linking bicycle trips with public transportation trips.
Policy 9.23. Transportation to job centers. Promote and enhance transit to be more convenient and
economical than the automobile for people travelling more than three miles to and from the Central
City and Gateway. Enhance regional access to the Central City and access from Portland to other
regional job centers.
Policy 9.24. Transit service. In partnership with TriMet, develop a public transportation system that
conveniently, safely, comfortably, and equitably serves residents and workers 24 hours a day, 7 days a
week.
Policy 9.25. Transit equity. In partnership with TriMet, maintain and expand high-quality frequent
transit service to all Town Centers, Civic Corridors, Neighborhood Centers, Neighborhood Corridors,
and other major concentrations of employment, and improve service to areas with high
concentrations of poverty and historically under-served and under-represented communities.
9.25.a. Support a public transit system and regional transportation that address the
transportation needs of historically marginalized communities and provide increased mobility
options and access.
183. Finding: The BPCU project meets policies 9.23 through 9.25. The BPCU project requires the
provision of safe, accessible, convenient bicycle parking in new construction, including standards
for Transit Centers and Light Rail Stations. These standards create conditions that support the use
of bicycling for trips and increase access to transit for people to link bicycle trips with public
transit.
Policy 9.26. Transit funding. Consider funding strategies and partnership opportunities that improve
access to and equity in transit service, such as raising metro-wide funding to improve service and
decrease user fees/fares.
Policy 9.27. Transit service to centers and corridors. Use transit investments to shape the city’s
growth and increase transit use. In partnership with TriMet and Metro, maintain, expand, and
enhance Portland Streetcar, frequent service bus, and high-capacity transit, to better serve centers
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 75

and corridors with the highest intensity of potential employment and household growth.
9.27.a. Locate major park-and-ride lots only where transit ridership is increased significantly,
vehicle miles traveled are reduced, transit-supportive development is not hampered, bus service
is not available or is inadequate, and the surrounding area is not negatively impacted.
184. Finding: The policies 9.26 and 9.27 do not apply because the BPCU project affects the requirement
of bicycle parking in new development and do not address funding for transit service or transit
service line investment.
Policy 9.28. Intercity passenger service. Coordinate planning and project development to expand
intercity passenger transportation services in the Willamette Valley, and from Portland to Seattle and
Vancouver, BC.
Policy 9.29. Regional trafficways and transitways. Maintain capacity of regional transitways and
existing regional trafficways to accommodate through-traffic.
185. Finding: The policies 9.28 and 9.29 do not apply because the BPCU project affects the requirement
of bicycle parking in new development and do not address standards for intercity or regional
transitways.
Policy 9.30. Multimodal goods movement. Develop, maintain, and enhance a multimodal freight
transportation system for the safe, reliable, sustainable, and efficient movement of goods within and
through the city.
Policy 9.31. Economic development and industrial lands. Ensure that the transportation system
supports traded sector economic development plans and full utilization of prime industrial land,
including brownfield redevelopment.
Policy 9.32. Multimodal system and hub. Maintain Portland’s role as a multimodal hub for global and
regional movement of goods. Enhance Portland’s network of multimodal freight corridors.
Policy 9.33. Freight network. Develop, manage, and maintain a safe, efficient, and reliable freight
street network to provide freight access to and from intermodal freight facilities, industrial and
commercial districts, and the regional transportation system. Invest to accommodate forecasted
growth of interregional freight volumes and provide access to truck, marine, rail, and air
transportation systems. Ensure designated routes and facilities are adequate for over-dimensional
trucks and emergency equipment.
Policy 9.34. Sustainable freight system. Support the efficient delivery of goods and services to
businesses and neighborhoods, while also reducing environmental and neighborhood impacts.
Encourage the use of energy efficient and clean delivery vehicles, and manage on- and off-street
loading spaces to ensure adequate access for deliveries to businesses, while maintaining access to
homes and businesses.
Policy 9.35. Freight rail network. Coordinate with stakeholders and regional partners to support
continued reinvestment in, and modernization of, the freight rail network.
186. Finding: The policies 9.30 through 9.35 do not apply because the BPCU project affects the
requirement of bicycle parking in new development and does not directly address policies or
standards related to the freight network.
Policy 9.37. Portland Heliport. Maintain Portland’s Heliport functionality in the Central City.
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 76

187. Finding: This policy does not apply because the BPCU project affects the requirement of bicycle
parking in new development and does not directly address policies or standards related to the
Heliport functionality.
Policy 9.38. Automobile transportation. Maintain acceptable levels of mobility and access for private
automobiles while reducing overall vehicle miles traveled (VMT) and negative impacts of private
automobiles on the environment and human health.
Policy 9.39. Automobile efficiency. Coordinate land use and transportation plans and programs with
other public and private stakeholders to encourage vehicle technology innovation, shifts toward
electric and other cleaner, more energy-efficient vehicles and fuels, integration of smart vehicle
technology with intelligent transportation systems, and greater use of options such as car-share,
carpool, and taxi.
188. Finding: The policies 9.38 and 9.39 do not apply because the BPCU project affects the requirement
of bicycle parking in new development and does not directly address standards for automobile
transportation.
Policy 9.40. Emergency response. Maintain a network of accessible emergency
response streets to facilitate safe and expedient emergency response and evacuation. Ensure that
police, fire, ambulance, and other emergency providers can reach their destinations in a timely
fashion, without negatively impacting traffic calming and other measures intended to reduce crashes
and improve safety.
189. Finding: This policy does not apply because the BPCU project affects the requirement of bicycle
parking in new development and does not directly address standards for emergency response.
System management
Policy 9.45. System management. Give preference to transportation improvements that use existing
roadway capacity efficiently and that improve the safety of the system for all users.
9.45.a. Support regional equity measures for transportation system evaluation.
190. Finding: This policy does not apply because the BPCU project affects the requirement of bicycle
parking in new development and does not directly address standards for transportation system
evaluation.
Policy 9.46. Traffic management. Evaluate and encourage traffic speed and volume to be consistent
with street classifications and desired land uses to improve safety, preserve and enhance
neighborhood livability, and meet system goals of calming vehicle traffic through a combination of
enforcement, engineering, and education efforts.
9.46.a. Use traffic calming tools, traffic diversion and other available tools and methods to
create and maintain sufficiently low automotive volumes and speeds on neighborhood
greenways to ensure comfortable cycling environment on the street.
191. Finding: The policy does not apply because the BPCU project affects the requirement of bicycle
parking in new development and does not include standards to address traffic management or
automotive volumes and speeds on streets.
Policy 9.47. Connectivity. Establish an interconnected, multimodal transportation system to serve
centers and other significant locations. Promote a logical, direct, and connected street system through
street spacing guidelines and district-specific street plans found in the Transportation System Plan,
and prioritize access to specific places by certain modes in accordance with policies 9.6 and 9.7.
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 77

9.47.a. Develop conceptual master street plans for areas of the City that have significant
amounts of vacant or underdeveloped land and where the street network does not meet City
and Metro connectivity guidelines.
9.47.b. As areas with adopted Street Plans develop, provide connectivity for all modes by
developing the streets and accessways as shown on the Master Street Plan Maps in the Comp
Plan.
9.47.c. Continue to provide connectivity in areas with adopted Street Plans for all modes of
travel by developing public and private streets as shown on the Master Street Plan Maps in the
Comp Plan.
9.47.d. Provide street connections with spacing of no more than 530 feet between connections
except where prevented by barriers such as topography, railroads, freeways, or environmental
constraints. Where streets must cross over protected water features, provide crossings at an
average spacing of 800 to 1000 feet, unless exceptional habitat quality of length of crossing
prevents a full street connection.
9.47.e Provide bike and pedestrian connections at approximately 330 feet intervals on public
easements or rights-of-way when full street connections are not possible, except where
prevented by barriers s such as topography, railroads, freeways, or environmental constraints.
Bike and pedestrian connections that cross protected water features should have an average
spacing of no more than 530 feet, unless exceptional habitat quality or length of connection
prevents a connection.
192. Finding: The policies do not apply because the BPCU project affects the requirement of bicycle
parking in new development and does not address standards for street connectivity plans.
Policy 9.48 Technology. Encourage the use of emerging vehicle and parking technology to improve
real-time management of the transportation network and to manage and allocate parking supply and
demand.
193. Finding: This policy does not apply because the BPCU project affects the standards for bicycle
parking in new development and does not affect the development or use of emerging vehicle and
parking technology.
Policy 9.49 Performance measures. Establish multimodal performance measures and measures of
system completeness to evaluate and monitor the adequacy of transportation services based on
performance measures in goals 9.A. through 9.I. Use these measures to evaluate overall system
performance, inform corridor and area-specific plans and investments, identify project and program
needs, evaluate and prioritize investments, and regulate development, institutional campus growth,
zone changes, Comprehensive Plan Map amendments, and conditional uses.
9.49.a. Eliminate deaths and serious injuries for all who share Portland streets by 2025.
9.49.b. Maintain or decrease the number of peak period non-freight motor vehicle trips, system-
wide and within each mobility corridor to reduce or manage congestion.
9.49.c. By 2035, reduce the number of miles Portlanders travel by car to 11 miles per day or less,
on average.
9.49.d. Establish mode split targets in 2040 Growth Concept areas within the City, consistent
with Metro’s targets for these areas.
9.49.e. By 2035, increase the mode share of daily non-drive alone trips to 70 percent citywide,
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 78

and to the following in the five pattern areas:
Pattern Area 2035 daily target mode share
Central City 85%
Inner Neighborhoods 70%
Western Neighborhoods 65%
Eastern Neighborhoods 65%
Industrial and River 55%

9.49.f. By 2035, 70 percent of commuters walk, bike, take transit, carpool, or work from home
at approximately the following rates:
Mode Mode Share
Walk 7.5%
Bicycle 25%
Transit 25%
Carpool 10%
Single Occupant Vehicle (SOV) 30% or less
Work at home 10% below the line (calculated
outside of the modal targets above)

9.49.g. By 2035, reduce Portland’s transportation-related carbon emissions to 50% below 1990
levels, at approximately 934,000 metric tons.
9.49.h. By 2025, increase the percentage of new mixed use zone building households not
owning an automobile from approximately 13% (2014) to 25%, and reduce the percentage of
households owning two automobiles from approximately 24% to 10%.
9.49.i. Develop and use alternatives to the level-of-service measure to improve safety,
encourage multimodal transportation, and to evaluate and mitigate maintenance and new trip
impacts from new development.
9.49.j. Use level-of-service, consistent with Table 9.1*, as one measure to evaluate the
adequacy of transportation facilities in the vicinity of sites subject to land use review.
9.49.k. Maintain acceptable levels of performance on state facilities and the regional arterial
and throughway network, consistent with the interim standard in Table 9.2*, in the
development and adoption of, and amendments to, the Transportation System Plan and in
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 79

legislative amendments to the Comprehensive Plan Map.
9.49.l. In areas identified by Metro that exceed the level-of-service in Table 9.2* and are
planned to, but do not currently meet the alternative performance criteria, establish an action
plan that does the following:
• Anticipates growth and future impacts of motor vehicle traffic on multimodal travel in
the area
• Establishes strategies for mitigating the future impacts of motor vehicles
• Establishes performance standards for monitoring and implementing the action plan.
*Note:  Referenced Tables 9.1 and 9.2 are contained within the Transportation System Plan and
should not be confused with tables or figures within the 2035 Comprehensive Plan.
9.49.m. Develop performance measures to track progress in creating and maintaining the
transportation system.
194. Finding: The BPCU project meets applicable sub-policies above, including 9.49.b., 9.49.c., 9.49.e.,
9.49.f., 9.49.g., and 9.49.h. The BPCU project will increase the supply of bicycle parking, which
supports bicycling, a low-carbon and active mode of transportation. Promoting active
transportation is one of the key strategies to reduce VMT, carbon emissions, and auto ownership
rates from the transportation sector and to meet the goals for bike mode share outlined above.
195.  Finding: Sub-policies 9.49.a., 9.49.d, 9.49.i, 9.49.j., 9.49.k., 9.49.l., and 9.49.m. do not apply. The
BPCU project is not addressing standards that eliminate death and serious injury on Portland
streets; address level of service measures used in land use review or evaluation of transportation
facilities; or develop performance measures to track progress in creating and maintaining the
transportation system.
Policy 9.50 Regional congestion management. Coordinate with Metro to establish new regional
multimodal mobility standards that prioritize transit, freight, and system completeness.
9.50.a. Create a regional congestion management approach, including a market-based system,
to price or charge for auto trips and parking, better account for the cost of auto trips, and to
more efficiently manage the regional system.
196. Finding: This policy does not apply because the BPCU project affects the standards for bicycle
parking in new development and the standards do not address regional multimodal standards or
pricing auto trips.
Policy 9.51. Multimodal Mixed-Use Area. Manage Central City Plan amendments in accordance with
the designated Central City Multimodal Mixed-Use Area (MMA) in the geography indicated in Figure 9‐
2. The MMA renders congestion / mobility standards inapplicable to any proposed plan amendments
under OAR 660-0012-0060(10).
197. Finding: This policy does not apply because the BPCU project affects the standards for required
bicycle parking for new development and does not address standards for the MMA.
Transportation Demand Management
Policy 9.52. Outreach. Create and maintain TDM outreach programs that work with Transportation
Management Associations (TMA), residents, employers, and employees that increase the modal share
of walking, bicycling, and shared vehicle trips while reducing private vehicle ownership, parking
demand, and drive-alone trips, especially during peak periods.
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 80

Policy 9.53. New development. Create and maintain TDM regulations and services that prevent and
reduce traffic and parking impacts from new development and redevelopment. Encourage
coordinated area-wide delivery of TDM programs. Monitor and improve the performance of private-
sector TDM programs.
Policy 9.54. Projects and programs. Integrate TDM information into transportation project and
program development and implementation to increase use of new multimodal transportation projects
and services.
198. Finding: The policies 9.52 through 9.54 do not apply because the BPCU project affects the
standards for required bicycle parking for new development. While bicycle parking can be seen as
a TDM tool, the Zoning Code provisions for Bicycle Parking set the required baseline for bicycle
parking; any provision for bicycle parking above and beyond the requirement in code could be
included as a TDM measure for new development.
Parking management
Policy 9.55. Parking management. Reduce parking demand and manage supply to improve
pedestrian, bicycle and transit mode share, neighborhood livability, safety, business district vitality,
vehicle miles traveled (VMT) reduction, and air quality. Implement strategies that reduce demand for
new parking and private vehicle ownership, and that help maintain optimal parking occupancy and
availability.
199. Finding: The BPCU project meets this policy. The BPCU project requires the provision of safe,
accessible, convenient bicycle parking in new construction. This supports the use of bicycling, an
active and zero-emission mode, for trips, potentially reducing demand for automobile parking and
VMT.
As discussed above in Finding 165 (for Policy 9.5), research shows that bicycle parking plays a
significant role in mode choice and thus impacts VMT.
Policy 9.56. Curb Zone. Recognize that the Curb Zone is a public space, a physical and spatial asset
that has value and cost. Evaluate whether, when, and where parking is the highest and best use of this
public space in support of broad City policy goals and local land use context. Establish thresholds to
utilize parking management and pricing tools in areas with high parking demand to ensure adequate
on-street parking supply during peak periods.
200. Finding: This policy does not apply because the BPCU project affects the standards for bicycle
parking in new development and does not set curb zone standards or policies.
Policy 9.57. On-street parking. Manage parking and loading demand, supply, and operations in the
public right of way to achieve mode share objectives, and to encourage safety, economic vitality, and
livability. Use transportation demand management and pricing of parking in areas with high parking
demand.
Policy 9.58. Off-street parking. Limit the development of new parking spaces to achieve land use,
transportation, and environmental goals, especially in locations with frequent transit service. Regulate
off-street parking to achieve mode share objectives, promote compact and walkable urban form,
encourage lower rates of car ownership, and promote the vitality of commercial and employment
areas. Use transportation demand management and pricing of parking in areas with high parking
demand.
Finding: The BPCU project meets the policies 9.57 and 9.58. The BPCU project requires the
provision of safe, accessible, convenient bicycle parking in new construction. This supports the use
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 81

of bicycling, an active and zero-emission mode, for trips, potentially reducing demand for
automobile parking both on-street and off-street. As discussed above in Finding 165 (for Policy
9.5), research shows that bicycle parking plays a significant role in mode choice and thus impacts
VMT.
Policy 9.59. Share space and resources. Encourage the shared use of parking and vehicles to maximize
the efficient use of limited urban space.
201. Finding: This policy does not apply because the BPCU project affects the standards for bicycle
parking in new development and does not set standards for shared use vehicle parking.
Policy 9.60. Cost and price. Recognize the high public and private cost of parking by encouraging
prices that reflect the cost of providing parking and balance demand and supply. Discourage employee
and resident parking subsidies.
202. Finding: This policy does not apply because the BPCU project affects the standards for bicycle
parking in new development and does not affect standards for parking subsidies.
Policy 9.61. Bicycle parking. Promote the development of new bicycle parking facilities including
dedicated bike parking in the public right-of-way. Provide sufficient bicycle parking at high-capacity
transit stations to enhance bicycle connection opportunities. Require provision of adequate off-street
bicycle parking for new development and redevelopment. Encourage the provision of parking for
different types of bicycles. In establishing the standards for long-term bicycle parking, consider the
needs of persons with different levels of ability.
203. Finding: The BPCU project directly meets this policy. The BPCU project requires the provision of
safe, accessible, convenient bicycle parking in new development. These requirements include
standards for different types of bicycles to accommodate the needs of users with different levels
of ability.
Finance, programs, and coordination
Policy 9.62. Coordination. Coordinate with state and federal agencies, local and regional
governments, special districts, other City bureaus, and providers of transportation services when
planning for, developing, and funding transportation facilities and services.
Policy 9.63. New development impacts. Prevent, reduce, and mitigate the impacts of new
development and redevelopment on the transportation system. Utilize strategies including
transportation and parking demand management, transportation system analysis, and system and
local impact mitigation improvements and fees.
204. Finding: The BPCU project meets this policy. The BPCU project requires the provision of safe,
accessible, convenient bicycle parking in new construction. This supports the use of bicycling, an
active and zero-emission mode, for trips, potentially reducing the impact of new development on
the transportation system.
Policy 9.64. Education and encouragement. Create, maintain, and coordinate educational and
encouragement programs that support multimodal transportation and that emphasize safety for all
modes of transportation. Ensure that these programs are accessible to historically under-served and
under-represented populations.
205. Finding: This policy does not apply because BPCU project affects the standards for bicycle parking
in new development and does not affect education and encouragement programs.
Policy 9.65. Telecommuting. Promote telecommuting and the use of communications technology to
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 82

reduce travel demand.
206. Finding: This policy does not apply because the BPCU project affects the standards for bicycle
parking in new development and does not affect telecommuting policy.
Policy 9.66. Project and program selection criteria. Establish transportation project and program
selection criteria consistent with goals 9A through 9I, to cost-effectively achieve access, placemaking,
sustainability, equity, health, prosperity, and safety goals.
207. Finding: This policy does not apply because the BPCU project affects the standards for bicycle
parking in new development and does not affect project and program selection criteria.
Policy 9.67. Funding. Encourage the development of a range of stable transportation funding sources
that provide adequate resources to build and maintain an equitable and sustainable transportation
system.
208. Finding: This policy does not apply because the BPCU project affects the standards for bicycle
parking in new development and does not affect standards for transportation system funding.
Connected and Automated Vehicles
Policy 9.68 Connected and Automated Vehicles Priorities and Outcomes. Prioritize connected and
automated vehicles that are fleet/shared ownership, fully automated, electric and, for passenger
vehicles, shared by multiple passengers (known by the acronym FAVES). Develop and implement
strategies for each following topic.
Policy 9.69 Connected and Automated Vehicles Tools. Use a full range of tools to ensure that
connected and automated vehicles and private data communications devices installed in the City right
of way contribute to achieving Comprehensive Plan and Transportation System Plan goals and policies.
209. Finding: The policies 9.68 and 9.69 do not apply because the BPCU project affects the standards
for bicycle parking in new development and does not affect policy or deployment of automated
vehicles.
Chapter 10: Land Use Designations and Zoning
Goal 10.A: Land use designations and zoning. Effectively and efficiently carry out the goals and
policies of the Comprehensive Plan through the land use designations, Zoning Map, and the Zoning
Code.
The Zoning Map and the Zoning Code
Policy 10.4. Amending the Zoning Code. Amendments to the zoning regulations must be done
legislatively and should be clear, concise, and applicable to a broad range of development situations
faced by a growing city. Amendments should:
10.4.a. Promote good planning:
• Effectively and efficiently implement the Comprehensive Plan.
• Address existing and potential land use problems.
• Balance the benefits of regulations against the costs of implementation and compliance.
• Maintain Portland’s competitiveness with other jurisdictions as a location in which to live,
invest, and do business.
10.4.b. Ensure good administration of land use regulations:
Bicycle Parking Code Update
Exhibit B Findings of Fact Report
November 2019  Page 83

• Keep regulations as simple as possible.
• Use clear and objective standards wherever possible.
• Maintain consistent procedures and limit their number.
• Establish specific approval criteria for land use reviews.
• Establish application requirements that are as reasonable as possible, and ensure they are
directly tied to approval criteria.
• Emphasize administrative procedures for land use reviews.
• Avoid overlapping reviews.
10.4.c. Strive to improve the code document:
• Use clear language.
• Maintain a clear and logical organization.
• Use a format and layout that enables use of the document by lay people as well as
professionals.
• Use tables and drawings to clarify and shorten the document.
• Identify and act on regulatory improvement suggestions.
210. Finding: The BPCU project meets the goals and policies of Chapter 10. The BPCU project includes
legislative amendments to the Zoning Code. The amendments have been developed to be as
concise as possible to effectively implement the 2035 Comprehensive Plan policies. The
amendments were developed in a public process and reviewed by the PSC and the Portland City
Council. For all these reasons, the amendments constitute good administration, good planning
and improvement to the code document.
Part IV.  Comprehensive Plan and Zoning Code Amendment Criteria
33.835.040 Approval Criteria
A. Amendments to the zoning code. Text amendments to the zoning code must be found to be
consistent with the Comprehensive Plan, Urban Growth Management Functional Plan, and the
Statewide Planning Goals. In addition, the amendments must be consistent with the intent or purpose
statement for the base zone, overlay zone, plan district, use and development, or land division
regulation where the amendment is proposed, and any plan associated with the regulations. The
creation of a new plan district is subject to the approval criteria stated in 33.500.050.
211. Finding: The findings in this exhibit demonstrate how the BPCU project is consistent with the 2035
Comprehensive Plan, the Urban Growth Management Functional Plan, and the Statewide Planning
Goals.
212. Finding: This criterion requires the BPCU project shows consistency on balance. The City Council
has applied all applicable policies and the findings in this exhibit demonstrate how the BPCU
amendments to the zoning code are consistent with the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, the Urban
Growth Management Functional Plan, and with the Statewide Planning Goals.
B. Amendments to the goals and policies of the Comprehensive Plan. Text amendments to the goals
and policies of the Comprehensive Plan must be found to be consistent with the Comprehensive Plan,
the Urban Growth Management Functional Plan, and with the Statewide Planning Goals.
213. Finding: This criterion does not apply because the BPCU project does not amend the
Comprehensive Plan.
Exhibit A:
Findings of Fact Report As Amended
December 2019

Legislative amendments to the Comprehensive Plan goals, policies and map must be found to be
consistent with the goals and policies of the Comprehensive Plan, Metro’s Urban Growth Management
Functional Plan, the Statewide Planning Goals, and any relevant area plans adopted by City Council.
(33.835.040 and 33.810.050)
Text amendments to the zoning code must be found to be consistent with the Comprehensive Plan,
Urban Growth Management Functional Plan, and the Statewide Planning Goals. In addition, the
amendments must be consistent with the intent or purpose statement for the base zone, overlay zone,
and plan district where the amendment is proposed, and any plan associated with the regulations.
(33.835.040)
Legislative zoning map amendments must be found to comply with the Comprehensive Plan Map with a
zone change to a corresponding zone of the Comprehensive Plan Map.  The change also must
demonstrate that there are adequate public services capable of supporting the uses allowed by the
zone. In addition, the school district(s) within which the sites are located must have adequate
enrollment capacity to accommodate any projected increase in student population over the number
that would result from development in the existing zone. This criterion applies only to sites that are
within the David Douglas School District, which has an adopted school facility plan that has been
acknowledged by the City of Portland. (33.855.050)
1. Finding: The City Council has identified and addressed all relevant and applicable goals and policies
in this document.
2. Finding: The City Council has considered the public testimony on this matter and has weighed all
applicable goals and policies and on balance has found the need to adopt the Better Housing by
Design Project amendments (the BHD amendments).
Part I.  Statewide Planning Goals
State planning statutes require cities to adopt and amend comprehensive plans and land use regulations
in compliance with the Statewide Planning Goals.
The Statewide Planning Goals that apply to Portland are:
Goal 1 Citizen Involvement
Goal 2 Land Use Planning
Goal 5 Natural Resources, Scenic and Historic Areas, and Open Spaces
Goal 6 Air, Water and Land Resource Quality
Goal 7 Areas Subject to Natural Hazards
Goal 8 Recreational Needs
Goal 9 Economic Development
Goal 10 Housing
Goal 11 Public Facilities and Services
Goal 12 Transportation
December 10, 2019
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Goal 13 Energy Conservation
Goal 14 Urbanization
Goal 15 Willamette River Greenway
There are approximately 560 acres of land both within Portland’s municipal boundaries and beyond the
regional urban service boundary that can be classified as rural land. In 1991, as part of Ordinance
164517, the City Council took an exception to Goal 3 and 4. the agriculture and forestry goals. Because
of the acknowledged exception, the following goals do not apply:
Goal 3 Agricultural Lands
Goal 4 Forest Lands
Other Statewide Planning Goals apply only within Oregon’s coastal zone. Since Portland is not within
Oregon’s coastal zone, the following goals do not apply to this decision:
Goal 16 Estuarine Resources
Goal 17 Coastal Shorelands
Goal 18 Beaches and Dunes
Goal 19 Ocean Resources
Goal 1. Citizen Involvement. To develop a citizen involvement program that insures the opportunity
for citizens to be involved in all phases of the planning process.
3. Finding:  The preparation of these amendments has provided numerous opportunities for public
involvement, including:
Concept Phase. In 2017, prior to the initiation of the legislative project, BPS conducted a number of
different public outreach events to solicit input on potential zoning code changes. A series of five
Stakeholder Working Group meetings were held from March through May 2017. These meetings
included participants with a range of perspectives and experience, including community group
representatives, development professionals, tenant advocates, neighborhood residents, affordable
housing providers and age-friendly advocates. These meetings served as a forum for discussing
issues and potential solutions, and to help inform project staff develop concepts.  In addition, two
neighborhood walks were held in the Jade District and Rosewood neighborhood to understand
different perspectives on multi-dwelling development in these areas.
Three roundtable discussions were held with affordable housing providers, designers, and builders
and developers in January and February 2017. These discussions allowed staff to hear from
development professionals about what is working or not working well with Portland’s multi-
dwelling regulations and how they can be improved.
A public workshop was held in February 2017, to introduce the project to the broader public and
provide an initial opportunity to discuss issues related to multi-dwelling development. The event
was held at PCC Southeast at SE 82nd and Division to accommodate community members who live
in Eastern Portland.  In addition, BPS staff met with a range of community groups to introduce the
project and identify issue that needed to be addressed.
Public input helped formulate the recommendations in the Better Housing by Design Project
Concept Report. Draft code concepts were presented at two public meetings in June 2017 in order
to receive initial public input prior to the release of the Concept Report. A public comment period
for the Concept Report was open for two months to solicit input on these concepts.
Project Updates: Regular communications about the Better Housing by Design project were made
available through the project website, monthly e-mail updates to the project mailing list, Bureau of
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Planning and Sustainability newsletters, social media sites (Facebook, NextDoor and Twitter) and
media releases.
Discussion Draft. The public review period for the Better Housing by Design Project Discussion Draft
was from January 22 to March 19, 2018. During this time the public had opportunities to learn
about the proposals at two public open house events. Staff also presented the proposals at various
community meetings. In addition, an interactive online Map App was available that showed parcel-
specific information about how the proposals would affect specific properties.
By the numbers
 More than 350 people participated in public events
 76 comments were submitted
 News blogs featured on the Better Housing by Design Project website
 Email updates were sent to the project mailing list to provide project updates and public input
opportunities.
 BPS E-newsletter articles
 BPS project staff provided updates to at 20 community groups

Proposed Draft. On May 11, 2018, the Better Housing by Design Proposed Draft was published in
preparation for the Planning and Sustainability Commission (PSC) review and recommendation. In
support of this process, the BPS website had a project page dedicated to this project, a Map App
page for submitting testimony, and telephone helpline to learn about the plan effort and numerous
ways to comment on the plan. As part of the Proposed Draft publication and legislative process
requirements, the following legal notices were also sent:

 Form 1 Notice
Sent to the Department of Land Conservation and Development (DLCD)
 Legislative Notice (~350 notices)
Sent to interested parties, recognized organizations, affected bureaus, TriMet, Metro and
ODOT and published in the Daily Journal of Commerce
 Measure 56 Notice (33,630 notices)
Required by Ballot Measure 56, this mailed notice was sent to owners of each lot or parcel of
property where there is a proposed change to the base zoning of the property or where there
are limits or prohibition of land uses previously allowed in the affected zone.

In addition to these legal requirements, information about the PSC hearings was featured in blog
posts on the project website, e-updates to project mailing list, media releases and posts by BPS on
NextDoor, Twitter and Facebook.

The PSC held a public hearing on June 12, 2018. Thirty people testified at the hearing and more
than 270 written testimonials were received.
The PSC discussed the proposals over seven subsequent work sessions. On April 30, 2019, the PSC
deliberated and voted to recommend the Recommended Draft to City Council.
All PSC meetings were streamed live and are also available for viewing on the Bureau website
Recommended Draft. On August 1, 2019. the Better Housing by Design Recommended Draft was
published to present the PSC recommendations to City Council. On August 29, 2019 the Post-
Acknowledgement Plan Amendment notice to DLCD was updated with the Recommended Draft
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

documents and notice of the City Council hearing. On September 5, 2019, a legislative notice of the
City Council hearing was sent to interested parties and anyone who testified to the PSC on the
proposed draft. City Council held a public hearing on October 2, 2019 and which was continued on
November 6, 2019, to receive testimony on the Recommended Draft.
Testimony by James Peterson raised concerns that BPS staff acted as a filter between
community members and decision-makers. Specifically, that public comment summaries
prepared by BPS staff are only concerned with “the body count” and not the substance of
the comments. The City Council rejects this concern. The BPS staff summaries are more
than participation counts and provide information on the topics of interest and the
positions. Furthermore, we find that the testimony reader on-line application makes the
written and verbal testimony provided at PSC and City Council hearings accessible to both
the community and the decision-makers, which makes for a more robust involvement
process. Finally, as evidence that the community is involved in all phases of the planning
process, and specifically when decisions are made, the City Council notes the number of
amendments that were made by the PSC and City Council as an indicator of the influence
that the community has on the process – testimony was received and responded to with
changes.
As noted below in these findings, the BHD amendments are consistent with the goals and policies
of Chapter 2 (Community Involvement) of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan and the findings in
response to those goals and policies are incorporated by reference. The events and outreach
strategies summarized here demonstrate consistency with the requirements of Statewide Planning
Goal 1.
Goal 2. Land Use Planning. To establish a land use planning process and policy framework as a basis
for all decisions and actions related to use of land and to assure an adequate factual base for such
decisions and actions.
4. Finding:  Goal 2, as it applies to the BHD amendments, requires the City to follow its established
procedures for legislative amendments to the Comprehensive Plan policies, the Comprehensive
Plan map, the Zoning Code, and the Zoning Map. The amendments support this goal because, as
demonstrated by these findings, the BHD amendments were developed consistent with the
Statewide Planning Goals, the Metro Urban Growth Management Functional Plan, and 2035
Comprehensive Plan, as detailed in this ordinance.
5. Finding:  Other government agencies received notice from the 35-day DLCD notice and the City’s
legislative notice.  The City did not receive any requests from other government agencies to modify
the BHD amendments.
6. Finding:  The City Council’s decision is based on the findings in this document, which are based on
the factual evidence presented to the Planning and Sustainability Commission and City Council that
are incorporated in the record that provides the adequate factual base for this decision.
Goal 5. Open Space, Scenic and Historic Areas, and Natural Resources. To protect natural resources
and conserve scenic and historic areas and open spaces.
7. Finding:
Open Spaces. None of the map changes or changes to multi-dwelling zones involve designated
open spaces (OS map designations).
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Scenic Resources. The City has designated scenic resources, some of which are included in the
applicable multi-dwelling zones. Existing scenic resource protections (Chapter 33.480) are not
being amended.
Historic Resources. Historic resources are located throughout the City including locations in multi-
dwelling zones. Existing historic resource protections are not being amended (Chapter 33.445).
The current RH zoning (and future RM3 and RM4 zoning) in the Alphabet Historic District in
Northwest Portland and the King’s Hill Historic District, just west of the Central City have locations
where the current zoning allows building scale that is substantially larger than historic buildings in
some parts of these districts, while disallowing new buildings to be as large as historic buildings in
other areas. The Comprehensive Plan policy 4.48 encourages zoning that is responsive to the
characteristics of historic districts, while other policies prioritize close-in locations for higher
density housing, including affordable housing. The amendments to the Zoning Map and
development standards in high-density (RM3 and RM4) multi-dwelling zones in historic districts
calibrates development allowances to the scale of historic districts, while providing additional
development bonuses for projects that include affordable housing.
Natural Resources. Existing natural resource protections are not being amended (Chapters 33.430
and 33.465). However, not all resources identified in the City’s updated Natural Resources
Inventory (NRI) are currently included in these protections. The City has initiated a separate
legislative process to update the environmental overlay zones based on the adopted NRI.
Generally. As noted below in the findings for the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, the BHD
amendments are consistent with the goals and policies of Chapter 4 (Design and Development,
including Historic and Cultural Resources) and Chapter 7 (Environment and Watershed Health) of
the 2035 Comprehensive Plan and the findings in response to those goals and policies are
incorporated by reference. Therefore, BHD amendments are consistent with the requirements of
Statewide Planning Goal 5.
Goal 6. Air, Water, and Land Resource Quality. To maintain and improve the quality of the air, water
and land resources of the state.
8. Finding:  Goal 6 requires the maintenance and improvement of the quality of air, water, and land
resources.  The State has not adopted administrative rules for complying with Statewide Planning
Goal 6.  The City is in compliance with federal and state environmental standards and statutes,
including the federal Clean Water Act and Clean Air Act.  Existing City regulations including Title 10
(Erosion Control) and the Stormwater Management Manual will remain in effect and are applicable
to future development. As noted below in the findings for the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, the BHD
amendments are consistent with the goals and policies of Chapter 7 (Environment and Watershed
Health) of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan and the findings in response to those goals and policies
are incorporated by reference. Therefore, BHD amendments are consistent with the requirements
of Statewide Planning Goal 6.
Goal 7, Areas Subject to Natural Disasters and Hazards. To protect people and property from natural
hazards.
9. Finding:  The State has not adopted administrative rules for complying with Statewide Planning Goal
7.  The Buildable Land Inventory (BLI), which was adopted (Ordinance 187831) and acknowledged
by LCDC on April 25, 2017, included a development constraint analysis that identified parts of
Portland that are subject to natural hazards.
A constraints analysis was conducted to determine relative risk. The relevant constraints are:
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

 Special flood hazard area (Land area covered by the floodwaters of the base flood, as
shown on the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) maps in effect on
November 26, 2010);
 Floodway (The active flowing channel during a flood, as designated on the flood maps
adopted under authority of Title 24 of the Portland City Code.)
 1996 Flood Inundation area (A record peak flow in February of 1996 caused the Willamette
River and its major tributaries to flood. This map was created to delineate the inundated
areas near the mainstem and major tributaries of the Willamette River)
 Potential Rapidly Moving Landslide Hazard Zones (as shown in the DOGAMI IMS-22
publication)
 Deep landslide—High Susceptibility or Landslide Deposit or Scarp as shown in the DOGAMI
IMS-57 publication
About 600 acres (12 percent) of the multi-dwelling zoned areas are located in these potential
natural hazard areas. Most (530 acres) of this area is in the Landslide Hazard Area. City programs
that are deemed in compliance with Metro Title 3 requirements for flood management, and
erosion and sediment control (i.e., City Title 10 Erosion Control, and the balanced cut and fill
requirements of City Title 24), as well as the environmental overlay zones are unchanged by these
amendments and will ensure any new development will be done in a way to protect people and
property from hazards.
As noted below in the findings for the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, the BHD amendments are
consistent with the goals and policies of Chapter 7 (Environment and Watershed Health) of the
2035 Comprehensive Plan and the findings in response to those goals and policies are incorporated
by reference. Therefore, BHD amendments are consistent with the requirements of Statewide
Planning Goal 7.
Goal 8. Recreational Needs. To satisfy the recreational needs of the citizens of the state and visitors
and, where appropriate, to provide for the siting of necessary recreational facilities including
destination resorts.
10. Finding:  Goal 8 focuses on the provision of destination resorts. However, it does impose a general
obligation on the City to plan for meeting its residents’ recreational needs: “(1) in coordination with
private enterprise; (2) in appropriate proportions; and (3) in such quantity, quality and locations as
is consistent with the availability of the resources to meet such requirements.”
Goal 8 provides that “Recreation Needs -- refers to existing and future demand by citizens and
visitors for recreations areas, facilities and opportunities.” Goal 8 also provides that “Recreation
Areas, Facilities and Opportunities -- provide for human development and enrichment, and include
but are not limited to: open space and scenic landscapes; recreational lands; history, archaeology
and natural science resources; scenic roads and travelers; sports and cultural events; camping,
picnicking and recreational lodging; tourist facilities and accommodations; trails; waterway use
facilities; hunting; angling; winter sports; mineral resources; active and passive games and
activities.”
The City of Portland has robust and diverse system of parks, recreation areas and open spaces. The
City’s Parks 2020 Vision documents the City’s long-term plan to provide a wide variety of high-
quality park and recreation services and opportunities for all residents. The Parks 2020 Vision
identifies a goal that 100% of Portlanders are within ½ mile of a Park or Natural Area. As of 2016,
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

81% of the City’s households are within ½ mile of a park or natural area, whereas 86 percent of the
multi-dwelling zoned areas (4,317 acres out of a total of 5,010 acres) are within ½ mile of a park or
natural area. Providing additional opportunities for future households to locate in these areas will
continue to contribute towards fulfillment of this goal.
The BHD map amendments do not affect any land designated as open space. In addition, the BHD
zoning code amendments include new development standards for outdoor areas and common
areas, which can supplement the recreational needs of BHD residents. Currently, most of the multi-
dwelling zones require outdoor space (48 square feet per unit). However, the high-density
residential zone (RH) requires no outdoor spaces. The BHD amendments require 48 square feet of
outdoor area per unit (36 square feet for small sites up to 20,000 square feet) in the RM3 and RM4
(RH) zones.  Also, the BHD amendments establish a new requirement for common areas equivalent
to 10 percent of the total site area for large sites with more than 20,000 square feet.
As noted below in the findings for the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, the BHD amendments are
consistent with the goals and policies of Chapter 8 (Public Facilities and Services) of the 2035
Comprehensive Plan and the findings in response to those goals and policies are incorporated by
reference. Therefore, BHD amendments are consistent with the requirements of Statewide
Planning Goal 8.
Goal 9. Economic Development. To provide adequate opportunities throughout the state for a variety
of economic activities vital to health, welfare, and prosperity of Oregon’s citizens.
11. Finding:  Goal 9 requires cities to consider economic activities vital to the health, welfare, and
prosperity of Oregon's citizens. Comprehensive plans for urban areas are required to include,
among other things: an analysis of economic patterns, potentialities, strengths, and deficiencies;
policies concerning economic development; and land use maps that provide for at least an
adequate supply of sites for a variety of industrial and commercial uses.
The 2035 Comprehensive Plan demonstrates compliance with Goal 9. Land needs for a variety of
industrial and commercial uses are identified in the Economic Opportunities Analysis (EOA), which
was adopted (Ordinance 187831) and acknowledged by LCDC on April 25, 2017.
The City’s acknowledged EOA analyzed and demonstrated adequate growth capacity for a diverse
range of employment uses, which are organized into different geographies that represent a distinct
mix of business sectors and building types. In each of the geographies, the City analyzed the future
employment growth and the developable land supply to accommodate that growth.
The BHD map amendments do not affect any land designated for industrial or employment uses.
The BHD map amendments do not affect the base development capacity in the commercial mixed
use areas. The changes apply the inclusionary housing bonus to historic districts, which is not
expected to impact the employment capacity in these areas. Given that the city as a whole has
excess capacity of mixed-use commercial development capacity, these changes will not adversely
impact the City’s employment capacity.
In addition, the BHD zoning code amendments expand the opportunity for small-scale commercial
uses. Currently, commercial uses are prohibited in most multi-dwelling zones, and are conditional
uses (subject to a discretionary review process) near light rail stations in the RH zone. The BHD
amendments will allow ground floor retail or offices uses up to a FAR of .25 to 1 per site in the RM1
and RM2 (R3/R2, R1) zones. This will allow up to 2,500 square feet of commercial use floor area on
a 10,000-square foot site. Each commercial use is limited to 1,000 square feet (enough for a small
retail space, café, or office). In the RM3 and RM4 (RH) zones, ground floor retail or offices uses up
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

to an FAR of .4 to 1 per site is allowed without a conditional use review. This will allow up to 4,000
square feet of floor area on a 10,000-square foot site. Each commercial use is limited to 2,000
square feet. Also, daycare facilities up to 3,000 square feet are allowed in all multi-dwelling zones
regardless of location. Allowances for small commercial uses will also provide opportunities for
“live-work” arrangements, which can support household prosperity by allowing additional
opportunities for home-based businesses.
As noted below in the findings for the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, the BHD amendments are
consistent with the goals and policies of Chapter 6 (Economic Development) of the 2035
Comprehensive Plan and the findings in response to those goals and policies are incorporated by
reference. Therefore, BHD amendments are consistent with the requirements of Statewide
Planning Goal 8.
Goal 10. Housing. To provide for the housing needs of citizens of the state.
12. Finding:  Goal 10 specifies that each city must plan for and accommodate needed housing types. As
used in ORS 197.307 “needed housing” means all housing on land zoned for residential use or
mixed residential and commercial use that is determined to meet the need shown for housing
within an urban growth boundary at price ranges and rent levels that are affordable to households
within the county with a variety of incomes, including but not limited to households with low
incomes, very low incomes and extremely low incomes, and includes attached and detached single-
family housing and multiple family housing for both owner and renter occupancy;
Goal 10 requires each city to inventory its buildable residential lands, forecast future needs, and
zone enough buildable land to meet those needs. It also prohibits local plans from discriminating
against needed housing types.
Goal 10 and its implementing administrative rules contain the following specific requirements:
1. Identify future housing needs by amount, type, tenure and affordability;
2. Maintain a residential Buildable Lands Inventory (BLI) with sufficient land to meet identified
needs;
3. Adopt land use maps, public facility plans and policies to accommodate needed housing
(housing capacity, as well as type, tenure and affordability);
4. Meet minimum density and housing mix requirements (including the Metropolitan Housing
Rule);
5. Adopt clear and objective standards for needed housing.

The adopted 2035 Comprehensive Plan conducted city-wide analysis to demonstrate compliance
with Goal 10. The City's Housing Needs Analysis, which was adopted (Ordinance 185657) and
acknowledged by LCDC on June 11, 2014, consists of five distinct reports that analyzed the state of
housing supply, housing affordability issues and the City's ability to meet projected housing
demand. The City’s Housing Needs Analysis was adopted as part of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan.
The Buildable Land Inventory (BLI), which was adopted (Ordinance 187831) and acknowledged by
LCDC on April 25, 2017, identified the supply of land available to provide this needed housing.
A major change in the BHD amendments is a shift in regulating by building scale (floor-to-area ratio
- FAR) instead of unit density in the RM1 and RM2 zones (current R1/R2/R3 zones).  The RM3 and
RM4 zones (current RH) already are regulated by FAR, rather than by unit density. This change will
resolve some nonconforming situations where the existing building exceeds the maximum density
standard. This change provides more flexibility for a greater diversity of housing types and expands
housing options close to services and transit.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Currently, the Alternative Design Density (a) overlay zone provides opportunities for additional
housing density. In the multi-dwelling zones where it applies, the a-overlay zone allows for bonus
density in exchange for design review, as well as corner triplexes and flag lots in the R2 zone for
projects meeting design standards. The a-overlay zone is proposed to be removed from all multi-
dwelling zones because the BHD changes provide the flexibility for additional housing units
provided by this overlay zone. Therefore, the removal of the (a) overlay zone will not have an
impact on residential development capacity or the range of housing types that could be developed.
Housing Supply and Demand. The City’s adopted BLI estimates Portland has the capacity for 201,000
additional housing units, more than the estimated need to accommodate the City’s forecasted
future growth of 123,000 units. The BHD changes largely involve a crosswalk from the old
designations (R3-RH) to the new designations (RM1-4).  The changes to shift to a FAR regulatory
system is estimated to increase the capacity for residential household growth by roughly 14,000
units in the RM1-4 zones.
Housing Affordability. The Housing Affordability Background Report1 cited recommendations to
address declining housing affordability. “Given that public resources to subsidize affordable housing
are limited and likely inadequate, the construction of new unsubsidized housing affordable to low
and moderate income should be promoted. This could include development of more reasonably-
priced rental housing units such as smaller units with no parking…and allowing the creation of more
than one accessory rental in large homes in single-family zones.” Also recommended: “Provide
incentives to the private market to construct affordably priced housing units both rental and
owner-occupied.”
The BHD changes include four significant incentives for affordable housing: 1) increase the
inclusionary housing bonus; 2) provide a deeper affordability bonus; 3) provide a bonus for three-
bedroom units; and 4) allow the transfer of unused development capacity in situations where
existing affordable housing is preserved. The BHD changes increase the affordable/inclusionary
housing bonus from 25 percent to 50 percent, which can make larger (20+ units) projects financially
feasible and create affordable units through the inclusionary housing program. In addition, the BHD
changes create a new bonus for housing projects that provide at least 50 percent of the units
affordable to households earning less than 60 percent of Area Median Income (AMI). The bonus for
three-bedroom units is refined to focus on projects where at least 50 percent of the units are
affordable to households earning no more than 100 percent AMI. Finally, the BHD changes allow
for unused development capacity to be transferred to other sites with multi-dwelling zoning in
exchange for preservation of existing affordable housing units.  All of these measures will support
the provision of regulated affordable housing units in Portland.
Housing Choice. The Comprehensive Plan Update Growth Scenarios Report2 found that the
preferred growth scenario provided a sufficient mix of three broad housing types – single family
residential, neighborhood and corridor apartments, and mid- to high-rise units. However, within
these broad classes there was some predicted scarcity within the middle range (attached houses
and plexes), while the low end of the spectrum (detached houses) and high end of the spectrum
(apartments) would dominate the housing type mix. The report identifies options for improving
performance:
 Create a Wide Range of Housing Choices: Producing a diverse supply of housing creates
diverse communities with the opportunity for households to remain in their neighborhood

1 Portland Housing Affordability Background Report https://www.portlandoregon.gov/bps/article/408246
2 Growth Scenarios Report https://www.portlandoregon.gov/bps/article/531170
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

as their lifestyles and housing needs change, especially in allowing older adults to remain
within their community.
 Support Development of New and Innovative Housing Types: Changing household needs
and preferences will create demand for new and different housing types.
The BHD amendments are specifically tailored to broaden the range of allowed housing types,
consistent with Comprehensive Plan Policy 5.4, which incorporated the recommendations in the
Comprehensive Plan Background Reports. For example, currently on a 5,000 square foot lot in the
R2 zone, the maximum density standard typically results in two large townhouse units. Under the
RM1 zone, a similarly size building could be developed but could be divided into more, smaller
units.
The findings below address Goal 10 requirements that amendments to the Zoning Map and zoning
code demonstrate that the City continues to accommodate 20-years of forecast growth and
provide the opportunity for a variety of housing types and tenures, with a variety of affordability
levels.
The Metropolitan Housing Rule (OAR 660-007-0035) states that cities “must provide for an overall
density of ten or more dwelling units per net buildable acre”. The RM1-4 zones have minimum
density standards that range from 17.4 units to 43 units per acre, which will ensure that the City of
Portland continues to meet this standard.
ORS 197.307(4) requires that jurisdictions “may apply only clear and objective standards, conditions
and procedures regulating the development of needed housing on buildable lands” …and these
provisions… “may not have the effect, either in themselves or cumulatively, of discouraging needed
housing through unreasonable cost or delay.” The BHD amendments provide clear and objective
standards. As an alternative to the clear and objective track, discretionary review is available for
Planned Developments which can seek additional flexibility in site layout and building form, at the
property owner’s choosing. Also, the BHD map amendments expand the design (“d”) overlay zone
to apply to all RH zoning (new RM3 and RM4 zones). The majority (84 percent) of the RH zone is
already within the design overlay or in historic districts (such the Alphabet Historic District in
Northwest Portland). The design overlay zone provides projects with options to either go through a
discretionary design review process or to use clear and objective design standards.
Testimony by James Peterson raised concerns that the BHD amendments incentivize
redevelopment of existing multi-dwelling housing, which is not needed because the Metro UGB has
more zoned capacity than is likely to be needed in the coming decades. The City Council rejects this
concern because the primary purpose of the BHD amendments, as explained above, is to provide
more flexibility for a greater diversity of housing types and expand housing options close to services
and transit. A by-product of these changes is a modest 14,000 unit increase in zoned capacity.
As noted below in the findings for the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, the BHD amendments are
consistent with the goals and policies of Chapter 5 (Housing) of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan and
the findings in response to those goals and policies are incorporated by reference. Therefore, BHD
amendments are consistent with the requirements of Statewide Planning Goal 10.
Goal 11. Public Facilities and Services. To plan and develop a timely, orderly and efficient
arrangement of public facilities and services to serve as a framework for urban and rural development.
13. Finding:  Statewide Planning Goal 11, Public Facilities, requires cities to adopt and update public
facilities plans. Public facilities plans ensure that urban development is guided and supported by
types and levels of water, sewer and transportation facilities appropriate for the needs and
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

requirements of the urban areas to be serviced, and that those facilities and services are provided
in a timely, orderly and efficient arrangement.
The adopted 2035 Comprehensive Plan includes the Citywide Systems Plan (CSP), which was
adopted (Ordinance 185657) and acknowledged by LCDC on April 25, 2017. The CSP includes the
Public Facilities Plan with information on current and future transportation, water, sanitary sewer,
and stormwater infrastructure needs and projects, consistent with the requirements of Statewide
Planning Goal 11.
In addition, the service limitations identified in the CSP have been incorporated into the adopted
BLI development constraint analysis that identified parts of Portland that lack needed urban
infrastructure. The BLI constraint analysis is the basis of a geographic evaluation of the BHD
amendments to ensure that public facilities are planned to support the potential development
resulting from these amendments.
The BHD capacity and growth allocation modeling determined that BHD changes would result in a
modest shift in the development pattern compared to the 2035 Comp Plan. In general, more
development is expected in the inner neighborhoods, where facilities are generally available and
there are fewer areas with inadequate infrastructure. Impacts to city systems were evaluated based
on the net change of development impact between the 2035 Comprehensive Plan zoning and the
BHD changes.
Sanitary Sewer
The Bureau of Environmental Services evaluated the proposed changes in household allocation and
found that sanitary flows from multi-dwelling structures represent a minor portion of the flows
carried by any given pipe, and sanitary flows from additional dwelling units on those multi-dwelling
zoned properties are unlikely to significantly affect the system. The Bureau Environmental Services
regularly analyzes sanitary and combined system, in conjunction with planning projections from the
Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, to determine priority areas for both capacity and structural
upgrades. Over time, these capital projects will address any localized issues.
Moreover, all developments are required to connect to sanitary sewer service and meet current
building and sanitation codes. Where local existing infrastructure is not adequate or available to
serve proposed development, system extensions and/or upgrades will be required as part of the
development review process.
Stormwater
Stormwater is conveyed through the combined sewer system, pipes, ditches, or drainageways to
streams and rivers. In some cases, stormwater is managed in detention facilities, other vegetated
facilities, or allowed to infiltrate in natural areas. Safe conveyance of stormwater is an issue in some
areas, particularly in the hilly areas of west Portland and some parts of outer southeast which lack
comprehensive conveyance systems and where infiltration is limited by geology or high
groundwater. Since 1999, the Stormwater Management Manual (SWMM) has provided policy and
design requirements for stormwater management throughout the City of Portland. The
requirements apply to all development, redevelopment, and improvement projects within the City
of Portland on private and public property and in the public right-of-way.  In some cases, solutions
may not be technically or financially feasible. Stormwater impacts are assessed based on the
amount of impervious area and building coverage that occurs on a parcel. The BHD changes do not
significantly increase either the allowable building coverage or impervious area from existing zoning
allowances. Further, reducing minimum on-site parking requirements and limits on surface parking
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

areas could result in even less impervious area. Provisions that encourage the preservation of large
trees through the transfer of development rights and required deep rear setbacks in East Portland,
as well as allowing stormwater facilities to count toward minimum landscaping, provide additional
environmental and stormwater benefits.
Water
Water demand forecasts developed by the Water Bureau anticipate that while per capita water
demands will continue to decline somewhat over time, the overall demands on the Portland water
system will increase due to population growth.  The Portland Water Bureau has not experienced
any major supply deficiencies in the last 10 years.
The water supply and water distribution system are sized to meet City fire suppression needs which
far surpass the day-to day demand from residential customers. The demand from higher density
development in the multi-dwelling residential zones is unlikely to significantly affect the water
system. While it is possible that the additional densities allowed through the BHD could exacerbate
existing local capacity issues in isolated areas, the Water Bureau does not anticipate the
amendments to cause significant problems for either current water users or the overall system.
Similar to sewer system and other infrastructure needs, all developments are required to connect
to water service and meet current building and plumbing codes. Where local existing infrastructure
is not adequate or available to serve proposed development, system extensions and/or upgrades
will be required.
Transportation facilities are addressed under Statewide Planning Goal 12, below.
For areas not excluded from the additional housing allowances provided by the BHD changes,
development standards and regulations are in place to ensure sewer, water, and stormwater needs
are met and impacts are addressed. Where there are existing constraints on public facilities,
proposed development could face increased cost of to provide or mitigate the constrained
infrastructure.
As noted below in the findings for the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, the BHD amendments are
consistent with the goals and policies of Chapter 8 (Public Facilities and Services) of the 2035
Comprehensive Plan and the findings in response to those goals and policies are incorporated by
reference. Therefore, BHD amendments are consistent with the requirements of Statewide
Planning Goal 11.
Goal 12. Transportation. To provide and encourage a safe, convenient and economic transportation
system.
14. Finding:  OAR 660-012-0060 (1) If an amendment to a functional plan, an acknowledged
comprehensive plan, or a land use regulation (including a zoning map) would significantly affect an
existing or planned transportation facility, then the local government must put in place measures as
provided in section (2) of this rule, unless the amendment is allowed under section (3), (9) or (10) of
this rule. A plan or land use regulation amendment significantly affects a transportation facility if it
would:
(a) Change the functional classification of an existing or planned transportation facility (exclusive of
correction of map errors in an adopted plan);
(b) Change standards implementing a functional classification system; or
(c) Result in any of the effects listed in paragraphs (A) through (C) of this subsection based on
projected conditions measured at the end of the planning period identified in the adopted TSP.
As part of evaluating projected conditions, the amount of traffic projected to be generated
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

within the area of the amendment may be reduced if the amendment includes an enforceable,
ongoing requirement that would demonstrably limit traffic generation, including, but not
limited to, transportation demand management. This reduction may diminish or completely
eliminate the significant effect of the amendment.
(A) Types or levels of travel or access that are inconsistent with the functional classification of
an existing or planned transportation facility;
(B) Degrade the performance of an existing or planned transportation facility such that it
would not meet the performance standards identified in the TSP or comprehensive plan; or
(C) Degrade the performance of an existing or planned transportation facility that is otherwise
projected to not meet the performance standards identified in the TSP or comprehensive
plan.
The adopted 2035 Comprehensive Plan includes the Transportation Systems Plan (TSP), which was
adopted in three phases (Ordinance 187832, 188177, and 188957). Phase 1 and 2 was submitted as
part Task Four of Periodic Review; and both were approved by LCDC Order 18 – WKTSK – 001897
on August 8, 2018. Phase 3 of the Transportation System Plan was adopted as a post-
acknowledgement plan amendment by Ordinance No. 188957, became effective on June 23, 2018.
The TSP includes a congestion performance analysis of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan Map.
The BHD amendments do not change the functional classification of any existing or proposed
transportation facility, nor do they change the standards implementing a functional classification
system. Therefore, the amendments do not have a significant effect under (a) or (b).
The BHD amendments expand the types of housing allowed, especially in the lower density RM1
and RM2 multi-dwelling zones, which make up 92 percent of the multi-dwelling zoned land in
Portland. The change to regulating density by FAR will provide more flexibility for how many units
are allowed inside the building, which will allow for a wider range of smaller housing types and
sizes. In RM2 zone, which is often located along transit corridors, will allow for a higher density that
is similar to adjacent mixed-use commercial zones. After accounting for the BLI constraints, the
development capacity in BHD zones increases by about 14,000 units. As required by ORS 195.036,
the BLI allocation model uses Metro’s population forecast to determine where new housing units
are likely to be allocated. The BHD capacity and growth allocation model shows minor changes to
the spatial distribution of housing units across Portland. This data was then evaluated by the
Portland Bureau of Transportation (PBOT) (see PBOT memo, dated September 6, 2019).
With regard to (c), the PBOT analysis found that peak PM hour traffic resulting from the BHD
amendments is not significant. The added traffic is widely spread across the City. The current and
proposed housing types are consistent land uses within the context of the descriptions of the
functional classifications of existing or planned transportation facilities.  Therefore, the
amendments do not have a significant effect under (A).
In the six areas where there is expected to be increased household growth, peak PM hour vehicle
traffic is dispersed across the transportation network in these areas. With the exception of several
“hot spot” streets of concern described below, this additional traffic is not expected to degrade the
performance of existing or planned transportation facilities such that they would not meet the
performance standards in the TSP. Therefore, the amendments do not have a significant effect
under (B).
As part of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan process, PBOT and ODOT identified a list of streets of
concern where future congestion may make it difficult for jurisdictional standards to be met. The
modelling shows that the minor impacts are not large in terms of absolute numbers of added
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

vehicles during peak PM hour (average 18 trips). These added trips could degrade the performance
of these facilities. However, there are mitigating factors and strategies that should reduce the
impact of these changes:
1. This is a high-level analysis that does not factor in redistribution of growth (reduction in the
number of households in other parts of the system) nor does it reassign traffic that might
be diverted to other less congested streets. These refinements to the analysis could result
in lower added traffic to these segments;
2. The BHD amendments include mitigating strategies that serve to improve mode split
performance and limit traffic impacts which were not able to be incorporated into the
analysis model. First, minimum parking requirements are being reduced. BHD further
promotes a walkable form through regulations on the amount of building façade that can
occupied with garages and prohibiting off-street parking between the building and the
street.
3. Transportation Demand Management Strategies
The Transportation Planning Rule defines Transportation Demand Management as:
“actions which are designed to change travel behavior to improve performance of
transportation facilities and to reduce need for additional road capacity.” Reducing demand
for automobile trips is a key strategy for offsetting potential transportation impacts from
BHD.
• Off-street Parking Management. A key tool in transportation demand management, as
identified in the Transportation Planning Rule, is parking management. To reduce reliance
on automobiles, the Transportation Planning Rule requires local governments within an
MPO to achieve a 10 percent reduction in the number of parking spaces per capita over a
planning period (660-012-0045). Consistent with this approach to reducing reliance on
automobiles and promoting a walkable urban form, the BHD amendments eliminate
minimum off-street parking requirements on small sites (up to 10,000 square feet) in the
multi-dwelling zones. On larger sites, the minimum required parking ratio is reduced by half
-- from one space for each unit to one space for every two units.
• Pedestrian-supportive development. The Transportation Planning Rule encourages
pedestrian-friendly development that makes it safe and convenient for trips to be made by
walking, and that facilities less driving to meet daily needs. The BHD amendments include
new requirements that will improve the pedestrian environment and encourage more
pedestrian trips in multi-dwelling zones. It limits front garages and parking structures to 50
percent of buildings along streets. It also disallows parking from being located between
buildings along streets and it requires building entrances to be oriented to streets or a
courtyard connected to a street.
•  Improved street connectivity in East Portland centers. The Transportation Planning Rule
recognizes the importance of street connectivity in making it “more convenient for people
to walk, bicycle, use transit, use automobile travel more efficiently, and drive less to meet
their daily needs,” especially in centers. The BHD amendments facilitate street connections
and improve connectivity in East Portland centers by requiring street frontages wide
enough to provide space for new street connections and by calculating development
allowances prior to street dedication.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

• Financial TDM incentives for larger apartments. Portland City Council adopted an initial
package of TDM measures with the 2035 Comprehensive Plan in 2016. These measures
mandate certain multimodal financial incentives with new mixed-use buildings with more
than 10 dwelling units (Portland City Code Chapter 17.107). The BHD amendments expand
these measures to multi-dwelling zones in locations close to frequent transit, projects with
buildings with 10 or more units will be required to use strategies that reduce transportation
impacts, such as by providing residents with transit passes, bike share or car share
memberships, and information on transportation options. This strategy will reduce
transportation demand in multi-dwelling zone areas where transportation trips are
expected to shift and on the overall transportation network.
• On-street parking management. The Transportation Planning Rule points to the
designation of residential on-street parking districts as a tool that local governments within
an MPO can use to reduce reliance on automobile trips (660-012-0045). Portland has had
an Area Parking Permit Program in effect since 1981. In recent years, this program has
expanded to include 17 zones with neighborhoods and businesses collaborating with PBOT
to create the rules for their zone. Per City Council ordinance, the Area Parking Permit
Program can impose a surcharge on parking permits. The money raised from the surcharge
can then be used to fund Transportation Demand Management strategies that reduce
automobile trips. This includes a Transportation Wallet program where participants can
receive significantly reduced transit, bike share, and other mobility passes in exchange for
forgoing an on-street parking permit. PBOT will continue to seek opportunities to work with
neighborhoods to expand the Area Parking Permit Program to address areas where traffic
and parking congestion are increasing.
• “Smart Trips” education and outreach. Another proven transportation demand
management strategy is the provision of transportation options information and
encouragement. Portland has been a national leader in this field through its Smart Trips
program. Smart Trips incorporates an innovative and highly effective individualized
marketing methodology, which hand-delivers packets and personalized emails to residents
who wish to learn more about all their transportation options. Key components feature
biking and walking maps, robust and sophisticated online, digital and paper resources, and
organized activities which get people out in their neighborhoods or places of employment
to shop, work, and discover how many trips they can easily, conveniently and safely make
without using a car. Evaluations over the past 15 years show that Smart Trips reduces drive
alone trips by about 9%. In recent years, Smart Trips has targeted people that are new to
Portland and those who are moving within the city to new homes. Research shows that this
is often the most effective time to encourage people to try new ways of getting around.
• Safe Routes to Schools program. Like Smart Trips, Portland’s Safe Routes to Schools
program reduces automobile trips through information, encouragement, and investments
in infrastructure that make it safe for students to walk and bike to school. In 2018, the
program reported that citywide 42% of K-5th grade trips and 40% of 6th-8th grade trips
utilized active transportation. This program, which is an important tool for reducing auto
trips during peak hours, will continue citywide under BHD. PBOT will continue to evaluate
targeted Safe Routes to Schools programming in TAZs expected to see increased growth
through the BHD amendments.
• Bicycle parking improvements. An additional citywide transportation demand strategy is
the provision of bicycle parking (Transportation Planning Rule 660-012-0045 3(a)). Research
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

has shown that the lack of a safe and secure place to park a bicycle is a key barrier for
bicycling as transportation. Portland’s existing bicycle parking code (Portland City Code
Chapter 33.266.200) was primarily written in 1996. A Recommended Draft of the Bicycle
Parking Code update has advanced to City Council for deliberation this fall. These changes
will update the minimum required amount of short- and long-term parking, enhances
security standards to help prevent bike theft, and accommodates a greater variety of
bicycles. These changes will apply to multi-dwelling zones, and are anticipated to reduce
some automobile trips from the transportation network.
4. Planning and infrastructure investments.
Additional transportation planning may also occur in and near the TAZs where the Housing
Allocation analysis shows development increases. This planning can identify opportunities
for improving multimodal networks, including access to transit. This planning can identify
small scale capital projects – less than $500,000 - that improve safety and comfort for
people walking, bicycling, and taking transit. Projects that emerge through this planning can
also be included in the future project lists for the citywide programs listed in the TSP.
5. Planned Capital Projects
The impacts of added auto trips from BHD are expected to be on identified hot spots on
both PBOT and ODOT managed facilities. Through the process of adopting the 2035
Comprehensive Plan and the 2035 Transportation System Plan, PBOT and ODOT agreed to
perform refinement planning in areas identified with potential safety and/or projected
capacity issues. See Projected ODOT “Hot Spots” Refinement Plan and Other Agency
Common Priority Projects, (TSP Chapter 6, page 281). Major refinement plans are
necessary when a transportation need exists, but the mode, function, and general location
of a transportation improvement have not been determined, and a range of actions must
be considered before identifying a specific project or projects.  These refinement plans are
still pending, therefore, mitigating the increased traffic from the BHD amendments can be
incorporated into that planning process.
Also, the additional auto trips from BHD can be analyzed, and to the extent possible,
mitigated during the planning, design, and implementation of future planned capital
projects in roadway segments identified as areas of concern (previously identified in the
TSP as locations that may fail to meet mobility standards in 2035). The adopted TSP Project
List identifies several improvement projects on or near the impacted facilities that could
incorporate future measures to mitigate these minor effects.
The modelling shows that the overall impact of BHD on the citywide transportation system is not
significant. It does, however, result in localized impacts on road segments that have previously
been identified as areas of concern. These impacts are not large in terms of absolute numbers of
added vehicles during peak PM hour and can be mitigated through a combination of transportation
demand management strategies, planned capital projects, and targeted planning and infrastructure
investments. Furthermore, as noted below in the findings for the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, the
BHD amendments are consistent with the goals and policies of Chapter 9 (Transportation) of the
2035 Comprehensive Plan and the findings in response to those goals and policies are incorporated
by reference. Therefore, the BHD amendments are consistent with the requirements of Statewide
Planning Goal 12.

Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Goal 13. Energy Conservation. To conserve energy.
15. Finding:  The State has not adopted specific rules for complying with Statewide Planning Goal 13.
Goal 13 generally requires that land use plans contribute to energy conservation.
The BHD amendments do not adopt or amend a local energy policy or implementing provisions.
However, the BHD amendments generally support this goal by encouraging smaller units and more
attached units. According to studies conducted by the State DEQ, “Reducing home size is among
the best tier of options for reducing waste generation in the Oregon housing sector, while
simultaneously achieving a large environmental benefit across many categories of
impact…Reduction in home size is a significant leverage point for impact reduction [including non-
renewable energy use] and may be a more effective measure than achieving minimum levels of
‘green certification’” [https://www.oregon.gov/deq/FilterDocs/ADU-ResBldgLCA-Report.pdf]
Attached housing is also more energy efficient than detached forms of housing. According to the
EPA, “fairly substantial differences are seen in detached versus attached homes [approximately
17.5% improved efficiency], but the most striking difference is the variation in energy use between
single-family detached homes and multifamily homes [50% improved efficiency], due to the
inherent efficiencies from more compact size and shared walls among units.”
[https://www.epa.gov/sites/production/files/2014-03/documents/location_efficiency_btu.pdf]
Therefore, the BHD amendments are consistent with the requirements of Statewide Land Use Goal
13 by limiting home size and allowing for increased types of housing that consist of smaller,
compact units, and attached housing.
Goal 14. Urbanization. To provide for an orderly and efficient transition from rural to urban land use,
to accommodate urban population and urban employment inside urban growth boundaries, to ensure
efficient use of land, and to provide for livable communities.
16. Finding:  Metro is responsible for Goal 14 compliance on behalf of Portland and other cities within
the metropolitan region.  Metro has adopted an Urban Growth Management Functional Plan and
compliance with this plan by constituent cities assures compliance with Goal 14, which is discussed
in Part II of this document and those findings are incorporated by reference.
As discussed above under Goal 10, the BHD amendments will increase the residential development
capacity in areas located inside the urban growth boundary, further enabling the City to
accommodate its forecasted growth. Therefore, BHD amendments are consistent with the
requirements of Statewide Land Use Goal 14.
Goal 15. Willamette River Greenway. To protect, conserve, enhance and maintain the natural, scenic,
historical, agricultural, economic and recreational qualities of lands along the Willamette River as the
Willamette River Greenway.
17. Finding:  There are small areas of multi-dwelling zoning that fall inside the Willamette River
Greenway (SW Macadam and Sellwood Waterfront). However, these parcels will continue to be
subject to development regulations for flood plains or natural resources. Furthermore, no changes
to existing protections afforded through the greenway overlay zones are proposed.
Therefore, BHD amendments are consistent with the requirements of Statewide Land Use Goal 15
because they do not change the protections to affected lands within the Willamette River
Greenway Overlay Zone.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Part II.  Metro Urban Growth Management Functional Plan
Under ORS 268.380 and its Charter, Metro has the authority to adopt regional plans and require city
and county comprehensive plans to comply with regional plan. Metro adopted its Urban Growth
Management Functional Plan under this authority.
In its June 2011 update to its 2010 compliance report Metro found, “The City of Portland is in
compliance with all Urban Growth Management Functional Plan requirements in effect on December
15, 2010, except for Title 13, Nature in Neighborhoods.” On January 16, 2013 the City received a letter
from Metro stating that Portland had achieved compliance with Title 13.
Title 1. Housing Capacity. The Regional Framework Plan calls for a compact urban form and a “fair-
share” approach to meeting regional housing needs. Title 1 requires each city and county to maintain
or increase its housing capacity, especially in centers, corridors, main streets, and station
communities, except as provided in section 3.07.120.
18. Finding:  The BHD amendments increase the housing capacity in the City because the
comprehensive plan and zoning map amendments generally assign the new zoning designation that
most closely matches the current designation. According to the BHD capacity and growth allocation
model, the change to regulating density by FAR in the RM1 and RM2 zone increases the citywide
housing capacity by approximately 14,000 units.
The exception to this increase in housing capacity involves the changes to the RM3 and RM4 zoning
designations in the Alphabet Historic District in Northwest Portland and the King’s Hill Historic
District, just west of the Central City. The current RH zoning allows building scale that is
substantially larger than historic buildings in some parts of these districts, while disallowing new
buildings to be as large as historic buildings in other parts of the district. The BHD map
amendments calibrate development allowances to the scale of the historic districts, while providing
additional development bonuses for projects that include affordable housing. The amendments:
1. Expand the affordable housing bonus in historic districts in both the multi-dwelling and
mixed-use zones. Currently, the affordable housing bonus is not provided in mixed use
zones in historic districts, even when inclusionary housing is mandatory for larger projects.
2. Change the Comprehensive Plan Map and Zoning Map in the Alphabet and King’s Hill
historic districts so that the allowed building scale relates to the scale of larger historic
buildings. In some locations the recommended zoning is larger in scale than existing zoning,
while in other locations the proposed zoning is smaller in scale. All properties affected by
these zone changes currently have RH zoning, but are being assigned the new RM3 and
RM4 zones based on the scale of the historic context.
3. Reduce the base FAR (regulating building scale) in the highest density multi-dwelling zone
(RM4) when located in historic districts, from a current base FAR of 4 to 1 to instead
provide a base FAR of 3 to 1. This is balanced by allowances for buildings that provide
affordable housing units to achieve a bonus FAR of 4.5 to 1. This means that larger
buildings subject to mandatory inclusionary housing requirements will be able to be as
large as currently allowed by the base FAR. Projects in which at least half of units are
affordable at 60 percent of median family income can be even larger than allowed by the
standard bonus (up to a FAR of 6 to 1), subject to historic review.
4. Provide an incentive for seismic upgrades to historic buildings. Amendments allow
additional building scale (0.5 FAR) to be transferred to other projects from sites with
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

historic structures in conjunction with seismic upgrades, to help defray the costs of these
upgrades.
The impact of change to 3 to 1 base FAR in the RM4 zone in the historic districts on housing
capacity is minimal - a reduced capacity of about 200 units out of 12,000 units of capacity in the
broader area. This minimal reduction is mitigated or offset by an expected increase in development
on large sites (10,000+ square feet) in the RM4 and mixed-use zones that will now be eligible for
the inclusionary housing bonus FAR, which can provide additional capacity of about 300 units (more
than balancing out the capacity changes in the base FAR).  This analysis does not account for the
changes that applies the inclusionary housing bonus in the mixed-use zones in historic districts
citywide, and in the multi-dwelling zones, which increases the inclusionary housing bonus from a 25
percent increase to a 50 percent increase above base FARs, which are expected to result in
additional housing units.
Therefore, the BHD amendments are consistent with the requirements of Title 1.
Title 2. Regional Parking Policy. (repealed in 1997)
Title 3. Water Quality and Flood Management. To protect the beneficial water uses and functions and
values of resources within the Water Quality and Flood Management Areas by limiting or mitigating
the impact on these areas from development activities and protecting life and property from dangers
associated with flooding.
19. Finding:  Title 3 calls for the protection of the beneficial uses and functional values of resources
within Metro-defined Water Quality and Flood Management Areas by limiting or mitigating the
impact of development in these areas.  Title 3 establishes performance standards for 1) flood
management; 2) erosion and sediment control; and 3) water quality.  The City has adopted overlay
zones and land use regulations, including Title 10 Erosion Control and the balanced cut-and-fill
standards in Title 24 Building Regulations, that, in the June 2011 update to its 2010 compliance
report, Metro found sufficient to comply with Title 3. This ordinance does not change any of these
overlays or regulations.
About 68 acres of multi-dwelling zoned areas are located in the 100-year floodplain. In the Zoning
Code, the City of Portland’s Title 3 program is implemented primarily through the environmental
overlay zones, which are unchanged by these amendments and will ensure any new development
will be done in a way to protect people and property and the functions and values of the floodplain.
Title 4. Industrial and Other Employment Areas. The Regional Framework Plan calls for a strong
regional economy. To improve the economy, Title 4 seeks to provide and protect a supply of sites for
employment by limiting the types and scale of non-industrial uses in Regionally Significant Industrial
Areas (RSIAs), Industrial and Employment Areas. Title 4 also seeks to provide the benefits of
"clustering" to those industries that operate more productively and efficiently in proximity to one
another than in dispersed locations. Title 4 further seeks to protect the capacity and efficiency of the
region’s transportation system for the movement of goods and services and to encourage the location
of other types of employment in Centers, Corridors, Main Streets and Station Communities. The Metro
Council will evaluate the effectiveness of Title 4 in achieving these purposes as part of its periodic
analysis of the capacity of the urban growth boundary.
20. Finding:  The purpose of Title 4 is to maintain a regional supply of existing industrial and
employment land by limiting competing uses for this land. Metro has not adopted a Statewide
Planning Goal 9 economic opportunities analysis for the region, so Title 4 is not based on an
assessment of the land needed for various employment types, nor do the Title 4 maps necessarily
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

depict lands most suitable to accommodate future job growth. Rather, Title 4 seeks to protect the
manufacturing, warehousing, and distribution of goods within three types of mapped areas by
limiting competing uses. These three areas are Regionally Significant Industrial Areas (RSIAs),
Industrial Areas, and Employment Areas.
None of the affected multi-dwelling zones are applied in Metro designated Employment Areas.
Therefore, the BHD amendments are consistent with the requirements of Metro Title 4.
Title 5. Neighboring Cities (repealed 1997)
Title 6. Centers, Corridors, Station Communities and Main Streets. The Regional Framework Plan
identifies Centers, Corridors, Main Streets and Station Communities throughout the region and
recognizes them as the principal centers of urban life in the region. Title 6 calls for actions and
investments by cities and counties, complemented by regional investments, to enhance this role. A
regional investment is an investment in a new high-capacity transit line or designated a regional
investment in a grant or funding program administered by Metro or subject to Metro’s approval.
21. Finding:  Title 6 establishes eligibility criteria for certain regional investments, and the use of more
flexible trip generation assumptions when evaluating transportation impacts. Title 6 also contains
aspirational activity level targets for different Metro 2040 place types.  This title is incentive-based,
so these findings simply serve to document intent. There are no specific mandatory compliance
standards in Title 6 that apply to this ordinance.
About 4,300 acres (80 percent) of the multi-dwelling zoning areas are located in Metro 2040 places.
The BHD amendments help to achieve Metro 2040 Growth Concept by increasing the development
capacity and allowing a greater range of housing types that will contribute to a mix of needed
housing types to be vibrant and successful Centers, Corridors, Station Communities and Main
Streets as called for in 3.07.640.C.
Title 7. Housing Choice. The Regional Framework Plan calls for establishment of voluntary affordable
housing production goals to be adopted by local governments and assistance from local governments
on reports on progress towards increasing the supply of affordable housing. It is the intent of Title 7 to
implement these policies of the Regional Framework Plan.
22. Finding:  Title 7 addresses housing choice. Metro adopted voluntary affordable housing goals for
each city and county in the region for the years 2001 to 2006, but never updated them. Title 7 does
not apply. Nevertheless, the recently adopted 2035 Comprehensive Plan includes city-wide
affordable housing production goals that greatly exceed those adopted by the outdated Title 7
(Ordinance 178832). The BHD amendments support the production of affordable housing by
including four significant incentives for affordable housing: 1) increase the inclusionary housing
bonus; 2) provide a deeper affordability bonus; 3) provide a bonus for three-bedroom units; and 4)
allow the transfer of unused development capacity in situations where existing affordable housing
is preserved.
Title 8. Compliance Procedures. Title 8 addresses compliance procedures and establishes a process
for ensuring city or county compliance with requirements of the Urban Growth Management
Functional Plan. A city or county proposing an amendment to a comprehensive plan or land use
regulation shall submit the proposed amendment to METRO at least 35 days prior to the first
evidentiary hearing on the amendment.
23. Finding: This notice was provided to Metro. Title 8 also requires the City to provide findings of
compliance with the Urban Growth Management Functional Plan. The findings in this ordinance
were also provided to Metro. All applicable requirements of Title 8 have been met.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Title 9. Performance Measures. (repealed in 2010)
Title 10. Functional Plan Definitions. Title 10 contains definitions. When 2035 Comprehensive Plan
uses a term found in Title 10 either the term has the same meaning found in Title 10, or the difference
is explained.
24. Finding: The BHD amendments do not change any definitions in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan that
are also found in Title 10. All applicable requirements of Title 10 requirements have been met.
Title 11. Planning for New Urban Areas. (not directly applicable)
Title 12. Protection of Residential Neighborhoods. Existing neighborhoods are essential to the
success of the 2040 Growth Concept. The intent of Title 12 of the Urban Growth Management
Functional Plan is to protect the region’s residential neighborhoods. The purpose of Title 12 is to help
implement the policy of the Regional Framework Plan to protect existing residential neighborhoods
from air and water pollution, noise, and crime and to provide adequate levels of public services.
25. Finding:  Title 12 addresses protection of residential neighborhoods. This title largely restricts
Metro’s authority to plan and regulate density in single-family neighborhoods.  Further, the 2035
Comprehensive Plan does not employ any of the optional provisions of Title 12. Even though Metro
provided a grant to support some of this work, the BHD amendments were originated by the City’s
legislative process and not at the direction of Metro.  Therefore, this title does not apply to this
ordinance.
Title 13. Nature in Neighborhoods. The purposes of this program are to (1) conserve, protect, and
restore a continuous ecologically viable streamside corridor system, from the streams’ headwaters to
their confluence with other streams and rivers, and with their floodplains in a manner that is
integrated with upland wildlife habitat and with the surrounding urban landscape; and (2) to control
and prevent water pollution for the protection of the public health and safety, and to maintain and
improve water quality throughout the region.
26. Finding:  Title 13 is expressly intended to provide a minimum baseline level of protection for
identified Habitat Conservation Areas. Local jurisdictions may achieve substantial compliance with
Title 13 using regulatory and/or non-regulatory tools.  The City of Portland implements Title 13
through its adopted Natural Resources Inventory (NRI) and subsequent protection measures
through the environmental overlay zones, which Metro has found to be in substantial compliance
with Title 13.
No changes to the environmental overlay zones are proposed as part of this project. Therefore,
BHD amendments are consistent with the requirements of Title 13.
Title 14. Urban Growth Management Plan. Title 14 addresses the regional urban growth boundary.
Since this ordinance does not require, nor initiate, a boundary change, Title 14 does not apply.
Summary, Urban Growth Management Functional Plan Findings
27. Finding:  The Metro Title 10 definition of comply or compliance means “substantial” rather than
absolute compliance. "Substantial compliance" means city comprehensive plans and implementing
ordinances, on the whole, conform with the purposes of the performance standards in the
functional plan and any failure to meet individual performance standard requirements is technical
or minor in nature.
For the facts and reasons stated above this ordinance substantially complies with all Urban Growth
Management Functional Plan requirements applicable to the BHD amendments.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Part III.  Portland’s Comprehensive Plan
Portland’s 2035 Comprehensive Plan was adopted as part of Task Four of Periodic Review.  Task Four
was adopted by Ordinance No. 187832 on June 15, 2016.  The 2035 Comprehensive Plan was amended
as part of Task Five of Periodic Review, which was adopted by Ordinance No. 188177 on December 21,
2016.  Both ordinances were made effective on May 24, 2018 by Ordinance No. 188695, and both Tasks
Four and Five were approved by LCDC Order 18 – WKTSK – 001897 on August 8, 2018.
28. Finding:  The City Council has identified the following guiding principles, goals and policies to be
applicable to the BHD amendments.
Guiding Principles
The 2035 Comprehensive Plan adopted five “guiding principles” in additional to the goals and policies
typically included in a comprehensive plan. These principles were adopted to reinforce that
implementation of the plan needs to be balanced, integrated and multi-disciplinary, and the influence of
each principle helps to shape the overall all policy framework of the plan. The BHD amendments further
these guiding principles as described below.
Economic Prosperity. Support a low-carbon economy and foster employment growth,
competitiveness and equitably distributed household prosperity.
29. Finding:  This guiding principle is to support a robust and resilient regional economy, thriving local
businesses and growth in living-wage jobs and household prosperity. The BHD amendments
support a low-carbon economy by supporting the development of compact housing close to
services and transit (86% of multi-dwelling zoning is within ½-mile of transit service), which helps
people spend less on transportation and utilities. The changes foster employment growth by
expanding opportunities for commercial uses in multi-dwelling zones along corridors and near
transit stations. The amendments contribute to more equitably distributed household prosperity
with incentives for the creation of affordable housing. Furthermore, the BHD amendments do not
reduce or convert any lands zoned for employment. Therefore, the BHD amendments will further
the economic prosperity guiding principle.
Human Health. Avoid or minimize negative health impacts and improve opportunities for Portlanders
to lead healthy, active lives.
30. Finding:  The BHD amendments further the following objectives which are intended to avoid or
minimize negative health impacts and improve opportunities for Portlanders to lead healthy active
lives. The changes contribute to human health by ensuring new housing includes residential
outdoor spaces that support healthy living and social interaction, through limiting large paved areas
that contribute to urban heat island impacts, by facilitating active mobility by allowing more people
to live close to services, and by supporting the development of a wide range of housing that can
meet the diverse needs, abilities, and economic conditions of Portlanders.
Increase access to complete neighborhoods. As described in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan (page I-
15), complete neighborhoods are places where people have safe and convenient access to the
goods and services needed in daily life.  The conveniences of a complete neighborhood make it
easier for residents to have active lifestyles and integrate exercise into their daily lives. Roughly
2,800 acres (52 percent) of multi-dwelling zoning are located in areas that are considered to be
complete neighborhoods. Allowing for more housing options will help expand housing
opportunities in these locations, providing more residents with access to these areas.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Strengthen consideration of environmental justice. The 2035 Comprehensive Plan describes
environmental justice as “the equitable treatment and meaningful involvement of all people in
public decision making as it applies to who benefits and who bears the cost of development and
growth.” The multi-dwelling zones encompass nearly every neighborhood in the City including
vulnerable neighborhoods.  “Vulnerable neighborhoods” are defined as census tracts with higher
than average shares of people that are vulnerable to economic displacement: renters, communities
of color, adults without a four-year college degree and renters. The BHD amendments were
informed by input from a diverse range of community members who live in or are affected by
multi-dwelling housing and development. The project’s Public Involvement Plan identified groups
who have a stake in the future of multi-family housing and included equity considerations in
identifying impacted populations, which guided the projects public outreach approach. Project staff
worked closely with the Jade District/APANO and the Rosewood Initiative to seek involvement by a
diversity of East Portland residents, given that part of the intent of the project was to address
concerns about multi-dwelling development and the lack of street connections in East Portland.
Half of the project’s Stakeholder Working Group meetings, during which issues and solutions were
discussed with community members, where held in Eastern Portland to facilitate participation by
East Portland residents. The PSC public hearing was held at the Portland Community College
Southeast campus in the evening to make the meeting more accessible to East Portland residents.
Testimony by Tamara DeRidder raised concerns that the BHD amendments fail to address air
quality and other health related impacts. Specifically, the concern is that most of the air pollution is
caused by cars and trucks and that most of the multi-dwelling zoning is near streets with heavier
traffic volumes and/or designated as freight routes, making the residents of multi-dwelling housing
more susceptible to poor health impacts. The proposed solution is to require enhanced air quality
filters in multi-dwelling structures. The City Council shares the concern about air quality impacts,
but finds that the proposed remedy is beyond the scope of this project. As noted in the testimony,
enhanced air quality filters is a State Building Code issue, and not one that regulated through the
Zoning Code. Therefore, it is not appropriate to include those types of requirements in the Zoning
Code.
Tamara DeRidder’s testimony finds fault that the Key Comprehensive Plan Objectives section of the
Recommended Draft Report failed to address the key public health policies, and thus, fails to
“satisfy” or comply with the 2035 Comprehensive Plan. The City Council disagrees and finds the Key
Comprehensive Plan Objectives section is just a selection of guiding policies. The final
determination of how each goal and policy of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan is address is this
document and the identified polices are addressed below.
Further, Tamara DeRidder’s testimony finds fault with the City’s finding for the Human Health
guiding principle because it specifically failed to address the language in Policy 4.33 that states
projects should “limit and mitigate public health impacts”. City Council disagrees and interprets the
requirement to address the Guiding Principles as a general overview discussion that does not
require addressing specific language in specific policies.
Finally, Tamara DeRidder’s testimony claims that changes to the development standards are in
conflict with the Human Health Guiding Principle. The City Council disagrees. The testimony calls
out the 5 percent decrease in minimum landscaped area in the current R3 zone. The City Council
finds that R3 zone is a small share (about 10%) of the total multi-dwelling zoning in Portland, most
of which is located in East Portland. The BHD amendments have additional requirements for deeper
rear setbacks that will offset this small reduction in required landscaping. Also, the BHD
amendments include enhance development capacity transfers for tree preservation to incentivize
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

retaining large trees that can improve human health outcomes. The testimony calls out the 10%
increase in maximum building coverage for current R1 zoning along civic and neighborhood
corridors. The City Council finds that the increase in maximum building coverage is offset by the
increase in required minimum front building setback that provides additional area for trees and
landscaping that can provide a buffer between the building and the street.
Environmental Health. Weave nature into the city and foster a healthy environment that sustains
people, neighborhoods, and fish and wildlife. Recognize the intrinsic value of nature and sustain the
ecosystem services of Portland’s air, water and land.
31. Finding: The BHD amendments help implement this principle by providing incentives for tree
preservation, requiring outdoors spaces that expand opportunities for trees and other green
elements, limiting paved surfaces, supporting the use of eco roofs and other green infrastructure,
and by expanding options for the development of energy-efficient compact housing in locations
supportive of low-carbon transportation options (such as transit, walking, and bicycling). No
changes to the environmental or greenway overlay zones are proposed as part of this project,
therefore the natural resource values and functions will be sustained.
Equity. Promote equity and environmental justice by reducing disparities, minimizing burdens,
extending community benefits, increasing the amount of affordable housing, affirmatively furthering
fair housing, proactively fighting displacement, and improving socio-economic opportunities for
under-served and under-represented populations. Intentionally engage under-served and under-
represented populations in decisions that affect them. Specifically recognize, address and prevent
repetition of the injustices suffered by communities of color throughout Portland’s history.
32. Finding:  The City Council determines that this guiding principle provides a framework to ensure
Portlanders more equitably share in the benefits and burdens of growth and development. A
fundamental purpose of the BHD amendments is to provide greater variety of housing choices and
it advances this principle by providing incentives for the creation of new affordable housing and for
preserving existing affordable housing. The changes also contribute to equity through development
bonuses for “visitable” housing that is physically-accessible to people with a range of abilities,
through provisions that address the need for street connections and outdoor spaces in East
Portland, and by increasing opportunities for home-based businesses and services along East
Portland’s corridors.
The adoption process for the BHD amendments included outreach activities (notices, helpline,
advertisements, and meeting locations) to engage under-served and under-represented
populations in decision-making process. As noted in the findings for Statewide Planning Goal 1
(Citizen Involvement) and Chapter 2 (Community Involvement) of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan,
the findings in response to those goals and policies are incorporated by reference, the BHD
amendments are consistent with the principle to create a robust and more inclusive community
involvement process.
The displacement impacts of the BHD amendments were analyzed and reported in Appendix F of
the Recommended Draft report. The greatest risk of negative impacts from the BHD amendments is
displacement due to the redevelopment of existing housing units, especially those units occupied
by under-served and under-represented communities. Most of the development capacity in the
multi-dwelling zones is through redevelopment of existing development. Only 16 percent of the
future development capacity is on vacant land.  Most of the additional redevelopment sites are
single-family houses in multi-dwelling zones, where about 60 percent are owner-occupied. The
greatest risk for displacement would be with the redevelopment of multi-dwelling structures, but
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

the BPS displacement risk analysis indicates that very few properties (10 to 24 sites with up to 67
units) have low enough values to be feasible for redevelopment. These impacts are mitigated by
four significant incentives for affordable housing that will help to offset any displacement that
occurs.
Resilience. Reduce risk and improve the ability of individuals, communities, economic systems, and
the natural and built environments to withstand, recover from, and adapt to changes from natural
hazards, human-made disasters, climate change, and economic shifts.
33. Finding:  The 2035 Comprehensive Plan describes resilience as “reducing the vulnerability of our
neighborhoods, businesses, and built and natural infrastructure to withstand challenges –
environmental, economic and social – that may result from major hazardous events.” The BHD
amendments support this principle by helping to focus growth in and around centers and corridors
to avoid sensitive natural areas and hazards, contributing to complete neighborhoods that support
neighborhood resilience and a low-carbon economy, supporting a diversity of housing options
responsive to changing demographics and household needs, and limiting urban heat islands that
will be an increasing threat in a warming climate.
About 600 acres (12 percent) of the multi-dwelling zoned areas are located in these potential
natural hazard areas. Most (530 acres) of this area is in the Landslide Hazard Area. City programs
that are deemed in compliance with Metro Title 3 requirements for flood management, and
erosion and sediment control (i.e., City Title 10 Erosion Control, and the balanced cut and fill
requirements of City Title 24), as well as the environmental overlay zones are unchanged by these
amendments and will ensure any new development will be done in a way to protect people and
property from hazards.

Chapter 1: The Plan
Goal 1.A: Multiple goals. Portland’s Comprehensive Plan provides a framework to guide land use,
development, and public facility investments. It is based on a set of Guiding Principles that call for
integrated approaches, actions, and outcomes that meet multiple goals to ensure Portland is
prosperous, healthy, equitable, and resilient.
34. Finding:  The BHD amendments are an amendment to the 2035 Comprehensive Plan. BHD
amendments include Comprehensive Plan policy amendments (renamed land use designations),
Comprehensive Plan Map amendments, Zoning Code amendments, and Zoning Map amendments.
As noted above, BHD amendments are consistent with the guiding principles of the 2035
Comprehensive Plan.
Goal 1.B: Regional partnership. Portland’s Comprehensive Plan acknowledges Portland’s role within
the region, and it is coordinated with the policies of governmental partners.
35. Finding:  The findings show how the amendments are consistent with Metro’s Urban Growth
Management Functional Plan and the Statewide Planning Goals. Metro, TriMet, and other state
agencies received notice of the proposed BHD amendments from the 35-day DLCD notice and the
City’s legislative notice.
Goal 1.C: A well-functioning plan. Portland’s Comprehensive Plan is effective, its elements are
aligned, and it is updated periodically to be current and to address mandates, community needs, and
identified problems.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

36. Finding:  These findings demonstrate how the BHD amendments are consistent with the 2035
Comprehensive Plan, including advancing multiple goals, and utilizing regulatory implementation
tools that promote current and future interests, especially in providing additional housing
opportunities across a range of housing types to accommodate future growth.
Goal 1.D: Implementation tools. Portland’s Comprehensive Plan is executed through a variety of
implementation tools, both regulatory and non-regulatory. Implementation tools comply with the
Comprehensive Plan and are carried out in a coordinated and efficient manner. They protect the
public’s current and future interests and balance the need for providing certainty for future
development with the need for flexibility and the opportunity to promote innovation.
37. Finding:  The BHD amendments include changes to the Zoning Code and Zoning Map, which are
primary implementation tools. The City Council finds that it is in the public interest to provide for
increased housing opportunities by increasing the housing capacity in Portland and providing for a
wider range of housing types in multi-dwelling zones by providing more flexibility in terms of the
number units in a building by focusing regulations on building scale and design. The Zoning Code
amendments change development standards, which may create uncertainty for some developers.
However, the City Council finds that many of these changes create flexibility, such as making vehicle
parking optional in most situations and allowing ground-floor commercial uses along major
corridors, and promote innovation, such as allowing ecoroofs to count towards meeting
landscaping requirements and allowing indoor common areas to meet recreation space
requirements.
Goal 1.E: Administration. Portland’s Comprehensive Plan is administered efficiently and effectively
and in ways that forward the intent of the Plan. It is administered in accordance with regional plans
and state and federal law.
38. Finding:  The BHD amendments. As noted above, the findings show how the amendments are
consistent with Metro’s Urban Growth Management Functional Plan and the Statewide Planning
Goals. The findings in this report also show how the BHD amendments effectively forward the
intent of the Comprehensive Plan.

The Comprehensive Plan
Policy 1.1. Comprehensive Plan elements. Maintain a Comprehensive Plan that includes these
elements:
 Vision and Guiding Principles. The Vision is a statement of where the City aspires to be in
2035. The Guiding Principles call for decisions that meet multiple goals to ensure Portland is
prosperous, healthy, equitable, and resilient.
 Goals and policies. The goals and policies of the Comprehensive Plan, including the Urban
Design Framework, provide the long-range planning direction for the development and
redevelopment of the city.
 Comprehensive Plan Map. The Comprehensive Plan Map is the official long-range planning
guide for spatially defining the desired land uses and development in Portland. The
Comprehensive Plan Map is a series of maps, which together show the boundaries of
municipal incorporation, the Urban Service Boundary, land use designations, and the
recognized boundaries of the Central City, Gateway regional center, town centers, and
neighborhood centers.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

 List of Significant Projects. The List of Significant Projects identifies the public facility projects
needed to serve designated land uses through 2035. including expected new housing and jobs.
It is based on the framework provided by a supporting Public Facilities Plan (PFP). The
Citywide Systems Plan (CSP) is the City’s public facilities plan. The Transportation System Plan
(TSP) includes the transportation-related list of significant projects. The list element of the TSP
is also an element of the Comprehensive Plan.
 Transportation policies, street classifications, and street plans. The policies, street
classifications, and street plan maps contained in the Transportation System Plan (TSP) are an
element of the Comprehensive Plan. Other parts of the TSP function as a supporting
document, as described in Policy 1.2.
39. Finding:  The verb “maintain” is defined in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan as to keep what you have,
conserve, continue. The City Council interprets this policy to mean that the City retains all of
elements of the comprehensive plan. This ordinance does not change the Vision or Guiding
Principles. The BHD amendments include Comprehensive Plan policy amendments (renamed land
use designations) and corresponding Comprehensive Plan Map amendments. The map
amendments generally assign the new map designation that most closely matches the existing map
designation (Multi-Dwelling – 3,000 and Multi-Dwelling – 2,000 to Multi-Dwelling – Neighborhood).
The exception are map changes in the Alphabet Historic District in Northwest Portland and the
King’s Hill Historic District, just west of the Central City. The current designations allow building
scale that is substantially larger than historic buildings in some parts of these districts, while
disallowing new buildings to be as large as historic buildings in other areas. The BHD map
amendments calibrate development allowances to the scale of the historic districts. The City
Council finds that the policy and map changes improve the long-range planning direction for the
development and redevelopment of the city’s multi-dwelling zones.
The BHD amendments do not change the List of Significant Projects, nor do they change policies,
street classifications, or street plan maps contained in the Transportation System Plan (TSP).
Supporting Documents
Policy 1.2. Comprehensive Plan supporting documents. Maintain and periodically update the
following Comprehensive Plan supporting documents.
1. Inventories and analyses. The following inventories and analyses are supporting documents
to the Comprehensive Plan:
 Economic Opportunities Analysis (EOA)
 Buildable Lands Inventory (BLI)
 Natural Resource Inventory (NRI)
 Housing Needs Analysis (HNA)
40. Finding:  The BHD amendments were developed consistent with the supporting documents of the
adopted 2035 Comprehensive Plan. The BHD amendments do not significantly impact the
employment development capacity as no designated employment areas are proposed to be
rezoned and are not affected by the amendments. The BHD zoning code amendments expand the
opportunity for small-scale commercial uses. Currently, commercial uses are prohibited in most
multi-dwelling zones, and are conditional uses (subject to a discretionary review process) near light
rail stations in the RH zone. The BHD amendments will allow a small amount of ground floor retail
or offices uses in all multi-dwelling zones, regardless of location, without a conditional use review.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

The Buildable Lands Inventory was updated to incorporate the BHD amendments. The BHD
amendments expand the types of housing allowed, especially in the lower density RM1 and RM2
multi-dwelling zones, which make up 92 percent of the multi-dwelling zoned land in Portland.  The
change to regulating density by FAR will provide more flexibility for how many units are allowed
inside the building, which will allow for a wider range of smaller housing types and sizes. In RM2
zone, which is often located along transit corridors, will allow for a higher density that is similar to
adjacent mixed-use commercial zones. After accounting for the BLI constraints, the development
capacity in BHD zones increases by about 14,000 units. As required by ORS 195.036, the BLI
allocation model uses Metro’s population forecast to determine where new housing units are likely
to be allocated. The BHD capacity and growth allocation model shows minor changes to the spatial
distribution of housing units across Portland.
The BHD amendments do not change the NRI or the implementing environmental overlay zones.
The BHD amendments are consistent with the Housing Needs Analysis by providing for increased
capacity for residential development. The changes also provide for increased housing types,
especially in three of the current multi-dwelling residential zones (R1/R2/R3), where the regulations
shift from calculating density by a units per acre basis to a floor area ratio (FAR) basis. The
amendments increase the potential for a variety of housing types that are identified as a needed
housing type.
2. Public Facilities Plan. The Public Facilities Plan (PFP) is a coordinated plan for the provision of
urban public facilities and services within Portland’s Urban Services Boundary. The Citywide
Systems Plan (CSP) is the City’s public facilities plan.
41. Finding:  As demonstrated in the findings for Statewide Planning Goal 11, the BHD amendments do
not significantly impact the provision of public services to these zones and are consistent with the
adopted Citywide Systems Plan (CSP).  The CSP, which was adopted (Ordinance 185657) and
acknowledged by LCDC on April 25, 2017, includes the Public Facilities Plan with information on
current and future transportation, water, sanitary sewer, and stormwater infrastructure needs and
projects, consistent with the requirements of Statewide Planning Goal 11.
In addition, the service limitations identified in the CSP have been incorporated into the adopted
BLI development constraint analysis that identified parts of Portland that lack needed urban
infrastructure. The BLI analysis is the basis of a geographic evaluation of the units created through
the BHD amendments to ensure that public facilities are planned to support any potential
development that could result. Generally, the systems are adequate to support the small increase
of additional units in specific areas of Portland, but localized issues may require facility upgrades in
conjunction with development. This means that in some cases, development could face increased
cost to alleviate the constrained infrastructure.
As noted below in the findings for goals and policies of Chapter 8 (Public Facilities and Services),
which are incorporated by reference, the BHD amendments are consistent with the CSP.
3. Transportation System Plan (TSP). The TSP is the detailed long-range plan to guide
transportation system functions and investments. The TSP ensures that new development and
allowed land uses are consistent with the identified function and capacity of, and adopted
performance measures for, affected transportation facilities. The TSP includes a financial plan
to identify revenue sources for planned transportation facilities included on the List of
Significant Projects. The TSP is the transportation element of the Public Facilities Plan. Certain
components of the TSP are elements of the Comprehensive Plan. See Policy 1.1.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

42. Finding:  As demonstrated in the findings for Statewide Planning Goal 12 (Transportation) and the
goals and policies of Chapter 9 (Transportation), the BHD amendments do not significantly impact
the transportation system.  The transportation impact of the BHD amendments was evaluated by
the Portland Bureau of Transportation (PBOT) (see PBOT memo, dated September 6, 2019). In the
six areas where there is expected to be increased household growth, peak PM hour vehicle traffic is
dispersed across the transportation network in these areas. This additional traffic is not expected to
degrade the performance of existing or planned transportation facilities such that they would not
meet the performance standards in the TSP. As part of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan process, PBOT
and ODOT identified a list of streets of concern where future congestion may make it difficult for
jurisdictional standards to be met. The modelling shows that the minor impacts are not large in
terms of absolute numbers of added vehicles during peak PM hour (average 18 trips). These added
trips could degrade the performance of these facilities. However, there are mitigating factors and
strategies that should reduce the impact of these changes.  These mitigation strategies are
described in the findings for Statewide Planning Goal 12, above.
4. School Facility Plans. School facility plans that were developed in consultation with the City,
adopted by school districts serving the City, and that meet the requirements of ORS 195 are
considered supporting documents to the Comprehensive Plan.
43. Finding: David Douglas School District (DDSD) is the only school district in Portland with an adopted
school facility plan. The Buildable Lands Inventory calculates available development capacity and
predicts where new households will be allocated over the planning period. Comparing the BHD
growth allocation to the current Comprehensive Plan zoning, the net change to households in the
David Douglas School District is a reduction of 1,500 units (roughly a 12% decrease from 12,000
units previously forecasted). This shift is primarily due to how the BHD changes affect other parts of
the city and reflect recent development trends that have more growth in the Central City and inner
neighborhoods and slower growth in East Portland. The David Douglas School District has indicated
that it can accommodate these changes into their future forecasting for their facility plan.
Implementation tools
Policy 1.3. Implementation tools subject to the Comprehensive Plan. Maintain Comprehensive Plan
implementation tools that are derived from, and comply with, the Comprehensive Plan.
Implementation tools include those identified in policies 1.4 through 1.9.
44. Finding:  The City Council interprets this policy to mean that the City retains all of the
implementation tools identified in policies 1.4 through 1.9. The BHD amendments change the
Zoning Code (1.4) and the Zoning Map (1.5) in a way, as described in these findings, that complies
with the 2035 Comprehensive Plan.
Policy 1.4. Zoning Code. Maintain a Zoning Code that establishes the regulations that apply to various
zones, districts, uses, and development types.
45. Finding:  The BHD amendments include Zoning Code amendments intended to implement the
policy framework of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan. The Zoning Code amendments include the
creation of four new multi-dwelling residential zones.
Policy 1.5 Zoning Map. Maintain a Zoning Map that identifies the boundaries of various zones,
districts, and other special features.
46. Finding:  The BHD amendments include Zoning Map amendments intended to implement the policy
framework of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan. The Zoning Map amendments apply the four new
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

multi-dwelling residential zones, consistent with 2035 Comprehensive Plan Map, as amended by
this ordinance.
Policy 1.6 Service coordination agreements. Maintain coordination agreements with local
governments of adjoining jurisdictions concerning mutual recognition of urban service boundaries;
special service districts concerning public facilities and services within Portland’s Urban Services
Boundary; and public school districts concerning educational facilities within Portland's Urban Services
Boundary.
Policy 1.7 Annexations. Provide a process incorporating urban and urbanizable land within the City's
Urban Services Boundary through annexation. See policies 8.11-8.19 for service extension
requirements for annexations.
Policy 1.8 Urban renewal plans. Coordinate Comprehensive Plan implementation with urban renewal
plans and implementation activities. A decision to adopt a new urban renewal district, adopt or amend
goals and objectives that will guide investment priorities within a district, or amend the boundaries of
an existing district, must comply with the Comprehensive Plan.
Policy 1.9 Development agreements. Consider development agreements entered into by the City of
Portland and pursuant to Oregon Revised Statute 94 a Comprehensive Plan implementation tool.
47. Finding: The City Council finds that policies 1.6 through 1.9 do not apply because the BHD
amendments do not include changes or amendments to service coordination agreements,
annexation processes, urban renewal plans, or development agreements.
Administration
Policy 1.10. Compliance with the Comprehensive Plan. Ensure that amendments to the
Comprehensive Plan’s elements, supporting documents, and implementation tools comply with the
Comprehensive Plan. “Comply” means that amendments must be evaluated against the
Comprehensive Plan’s applicable goals and policies and on balance be equally or more supportive of
the Comprehensive Plan than the existing language or designation.
1.10.a Legislative amendments to the Comprehensive Plan’s elements and implementation tools
must also comply with the Guiding Principles.
1.10.b Legislative amendments to the Comprehensive Plan’s elements should be based on the
factual basis established in the supporting documents as updated and amended over time.
1.10.c Amendments to the Zoning Map are in compliance with the Comprehensive Plan if they are
consistent with the Comprehensive Plan Map.
48. Finding:  The City Council finds that this is a fundamental policy of the Comprehensive Plan that
guides the manner in which the City Council considers amendments to the Plan itself or any
implementing regulations, such as the Zoning Code and Zoning Map.  The City Council interprets
the policy to require the Council to consider whether, after considering all relevant facts, an
amendment is equally or more supportive of the Comprehensive Plan.  The City Council finds that
an amendment is equally supportive when it is on its face directly supported by goals and policies in
the Plan.  The City Council finds that an amendment is more supportive of the Comprehensive Plan
when the amendment will further advance goals and policies, particularly those that are
aspirational in nature.  The City Council finds that the policy requires consideration as to whether
amendments are equally or more supportive of the Plan as a whole.  The City Council finds that
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

amendments do not need to be equally or more supportive with individual goals and policies, but
rather amendments must be equally or more supportive of the entire Comprehensive Plan.
Therefore, the City Council finds that there may be instances where specific goals and policies are
not supported by the amendments but still the amendment is equally or more supportive of the
entire Comprehensive Plan when considered cumulatively. The City Council finds that there is no
precise mathematical equation for determining when the Plan as a whole is supported but rather
such consideration requires City Council discretion in evaluating the competing interests and
objectives of the plan.
The BHD amendments include legislative amendments to the Zoning Code and Zoning Map, which
are implementation tools of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan. These findings identify how the BHD
amendments comply with the 2035 Comprehensive Plan.  That is, the amendments are evaluated
against the 2035 Comprehensive Plan’s Guiding Principles, goals, and policies, as detailed
throughout this set of findings.  The City Council finds that these amendments are equally or more
supportive of the Comprehensive Plan than the existing Zoning Code and Map regulations because
the amendments better promote a broad range of policies objectives, including those related to
housing, urban form, and design and development.
The City Council finds that the evaluation to determine if the BHD amendments are on balance
equally or more supportive than the existing language or designation must consider all of the goals
and policies, as demonstrated by these findings. However, these amendments embody a situation
where there are competing directions embodied by different policies. There are some policies
where the amendments are equally supportive—not more or less so—but there are other policies
where the amendments a more supportive and the code changes better embody the direction in
the Comprehensive Plan as a whole.
For the reasons stated in these findings, the City Council concludes that the BHD amendments are
on balance more supportive of the goals and policies of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan than the
current regulations. The City Council has considered all applicable goals and policies to achieve an
optimum outcome. Goals and policies are considered as factors which must be weighed, balanced
and met on the whole, not as criteria that must be individually met. The overall purposes of the
BHD amendments are to expand the diversity and affordability of housing opportunities in the
multi-dwelling zones, promote design that supports livability for residents of multi-dwelling
housing, contributes to fostering pedestrian-oriented places, integrates green elements, and
contributes to connected communities where more people can live close to services and transit.
The City council has weighed and balanced the applicable goals and policies and concludes that, on
the whole, adopting the BHD amendments is more supportive of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan
than keeping the Zoning Code and Zoning Map as they currently exit.
Policy 1.11. Consistency with Metro Urban Growth Management Functional Plan and Urban Growth
Boundary. Ensure that the Comprehensive Plan remains consistent with the Metro Urban Growth
Management Functional Plan and supports a tight urban growth boundary for the Portland
metropolitan area.
Policy 1.12. Consistency with Statewide Planning Goals. Ensure that the Comprehensive Plan,
supporting documents, and implementation tools remain consistent with the Oregon Statewide
Planning Goals.
49. Finding:  As noted earlier in these findings, the BHD amendments are consistent with and designed
to further the applicable elements of the Metro Urban Growth Management Functional Plan and
Statewide Planning Goals, consistent with the directives of policies 1.11 and 1.12.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy 1.13. Consistency with state and federal regulations. Ensure that the Comprehensive Plan
remains consistent with all applicable state and federal regulations, and that implementation
measures for the Comprehensive Plan are well coordinated with other City activities that respond to
state and federal regulations.
50. Finding:  The BHD amendments were developed to be consistent with applicable state and federal
regulations and do not amend any Zoning Code sections that are required by state or federal
regulations, including FEMA flood regulations and state building code requirements.
Policy 1.14. Public facility adequacy. Consider impacts on the existing and future availability and
capacity of urban public facilities and services when amending Comprehensive Plan elements and
implementation tools. Urban public facilities and services include those provided by the City,
neighboring jurisdictions, and partners within Portland’s urban services boundaries, as established by
Policies 8.2 and 8.6.
51. Finding:  As demonstrated in the findings for Statewide Planning Goal 11 and Chapter 8 (Public
Facilities and Services) of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, the BHD amendments do not significantly
impact the provision of public services to these sites.
Policy 1.15. Intergovernmental coordination. Strive to administer the Comprehensive Plan elements
and implementation tools in a manner that supports the efforts and fiscal health of the City, county
and regional governments, and partner agencies such as school districts and transit agencies.
52. Finding:  As demonstrated in the findings for Statewide Planning Goal 2, the City filed the required
35-day notice with Oregon Department of Land Conservation and Development to notify other
government agencies of the proposed BHD amendments.  In addition, the City sent a separate
legislative notice to Multnomah County, adjacent cities, Metro and TriMet. The City also
coordinated with the David Douglas School District to consider how these amendments may
address school enrollment. No government agencies raised issues or concerns with the BHD
amendments.
Policy 1.16. Planning and Sustainability Commission review. Ensure the Planning and Sustainability
Commission (PSC) reviews and makes recommendations to the City Council on all proposed legislative
amendments to Comprehensive Plan elements, supporting documents, and implementation tools. The
PSC advises City Council on the City’s long-range goals, policies, and programs for land use, planning,
and sustainability. The membership and powers and duties of the PSC are described in the Zoning
Code.
53. Finding:  The PSC reviewed and recommended the BHD amendments according to the following
schedule:
May 22, 2018 – PSC briefing on BHD proposals
June 12, 2018 – Public hearings and testimony
September 11, 2018 – PSC work session on topics and schedule
September 25, 2018 – PSC work session on development scale and bonuses
October 9, 2018 – PSC work session on East Portland, street connections, and parking
November 13, 2018 – PSC work session on historic districts and visitability
November 27, 2018 – PSC work session on building design and setbacks
December 11, 2018 – PSC work session on front garages and parking location
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

April 9, 2019 – PSC work session on Revised Proposed Draft and historic district zoning
April 30, 2019 – PSC recommendation vote to City Council
Policy 1.17. Community Involvement Committee. Establish a Community Involvement Committee to
oversee the Community Involvement Program as recognized by Oregon Statewide Planning Goal 1 –
Community Involvement and policies 2.15-2.18 of this Comprehensive Plan.
54. Finding:  The Citizen Involvement Committee was appointed in June 2018 and reviews and advises
the way City staff engage with the public in land use and transportation planning. The Better
Housing By Design project started in October 2016, prior to the creation of the CIC, so was unable
to consult with the CIC on the community involvement program that informed these proposals and
recommendations. However, the City Council determines that the BHD project was undertaken in
compliance with community involvement goals and policies, as indicated in the Comprehensive
Plan Chapter 2 (Community Involvement) findings.
Policy 1.18. Quasi-judicial amendments to the Comprehensive Plan Map. Applicants for quasi-judicial
amendments to the Comprehensive Plan Map must show that the requested change adheres to
Policies 1.10 through 1.15 and:
 Is compatible with the land use pattern established by the Comprehensive Plan Map.
 Is not in conflict with applicable adopted area-specific plans as described in Policy 1.19, or the
applicable hearings body determines that the identified conflict represents a circumstance
where the area specific plan is in conflict with the Comprehensive Plan and the proposed
amendment is consistent with the Comprehensive Plan.
The Hearings Officer must review and make recommendations to the City Council on all quasi-
judicial amendments to the Comprehensive Plan Map using procedures outlined in the Zoning
Code.
55. Finding:  This policy concerns quasi-judicial amendments to the Comprehensive Plan Map and is not
applicable to this project, which is a legislative project.
Policy 1.19. Area-specific plans. Use area-specific plans to provide additional detail or refinements
applicable at a smaller geographic scale, such as for centers and corridors, within the policy
framework provided by the overall Comprehensive Plan.
1.19.a Area-specific plans that are adopted after May 24, 2018, should clearly identify which
components amend Comprehensive Plan elements, supporting documents, or implementation
tools. Such amendments should be appropriate to the scope of the Comprehensive Plan; be
intended to guide land use decisions; and provide geographically-specific detail. Such
amendments could include policies specific to the plan area, land use designation changes, zoning
map changes, zoning code changes, and public facility projects necessary to serve designated land
uses.
1.19.b Area-specific plan components intended as context, general guidance, or directives for
future community-driven efforts should not amend the Comprehensive Plan elements or
implementation tools but be adopted by resolution as intent. These components include vision
statements, historical context, existing conditions, action plans, design preferences, and other
background information.
1.19.c Community, area, neighborhood, and other area-specific plans that were adopted by
ordinance prior to January 1, 2018 are still in effect. However, the elements of this Comprehensive
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Plan supersede any goals or policies of a community, area, or neighborhood plan that are
inconsistent with this Plan.
56. Finding:  The BHD amendments do not amend any of the area specific plans. Policy 1.19 directs that
existing area-specific plans be used to provide additional detail or refinements at a smaller
geographic scale, like centers or corridors. The BHD amendments are applicable at a citywide
geography, with the changes affecting all zones equally across the city. At the citywide scale, the
findings included herein demonstrate that the amendments are consistent with the 2035
Comprehensive Plan. The additional detail or refinements applicable at a smaller geographic scale
in the area plans is maintained by applying a consistent crosswalk between the previous land use
and zoning designations with new designations created by these amendments. Area specific plans
with relevant housing policies are addressed below. To the degree that a particular policy from an
area specific plan adopted prior to May 24, 2018 may conflict, per Policy 1.19.c. this inconsistency is
superseded by the more recently adopted comprehensive plan policies.
Chapter 2: Community Involvement
Goal 2.A: Community involvement as a partnership. The City of Portland works together as a genuine
partner with all Portland communities and interests. The City promotes, builds, and maintains
relationships, and communicates with individuals, communities, neighborhoods, businesses,
organizations, institutions, and other governments to ensure meaningful community involvement in
planning and investment decisions.
Goal 2.B: Social justice and equity. The City of Portland seeks social justice by expanding choice and
opportunity for all community members, recognizing a special responsibility to identify and engage, as
genuine partners, under-served and under-represented communities in planning, investment,
implementation, and enforcement processes, particularly those with potential to be adversely
affected by the results of decisions. The City actively works to improve its planning and investment-
related decisions to achieve equitable distribution of burdens and benefits and address past injustices.
Goal 2.C: Value community wisdom and participation. Portland values and encourages community
and civic participation. The City seeks and considers community wisdom and diverse cultural
perspectives, and integrates them with technical analysis, to strengthen land use decisions.
Goal 2.D: Transparency and accountability. City planning and investment decision-making processes
are clear, open, and documented. Through these processes a diverse range of community interests are
heard and balanced. The City makes it clear to the community who is responsible for making decisions
and how community input is considered. Accountability includes monitoring and reporting outcomes.
Goal 2.E: Meaningful participation. Community members have meaningful opportunities to
participate in and influence all stages of planning and decision making. Public processes engage the
full diversity of affected community members, including under-served and under-represented
individuals and communities. The City will seek and facilitate the involvement of those potentially
affected by planning and decision making.
Goal 2.F: Accessible and effective participation. City planning and investment decision-making
processes are designed to be culturally accessible and effective. The City draws from acknowledged
best practices and uses a wide variety of tools, including those developed and recommended by
under-served and under-represented communities, to promote inclusive, collaborative, culturally-
specific, and robust community involvement.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Goal 2.G: Strong civic infrastructure. Civic institutions, organizations, and processes encourage active
and meaningful community involvement and strengthen the capacity of individuals and communities
to participate in planning processes and civic life.
57. Finding:  The City Council interprets the Chapter 2 goals and policies as calling for a broad range of
meaningful community engagement approaches that complement the legally required public
notices and meetings. The public engagement process provided opportunities for all interested
parties to comment on and influence the early development of the BHD amendments, the PSC’s
Recommended Draft and the final decision before City Council.
The initial stages of the proposal were shaped by a series of Stakeholder Working Group meetings,
half of which were held in East Portland and involved the Rosewood Initiative and the Jade District
to ensure that the project’s proposals were informed by East Portland’s needs and characteristics.
The BHD amendments were also informed by previous projects that involved community
partnerships with focused outreach to multi-family housing residents, including low-income and
immigrant communities. These projects included the Healthy Active Communities for Portland’s
Affordable Housing Families Initiative, the Promoting Health Through Multi-Family Housing Project,
and the East Portland Action Plan. This helped ensure that the amendments were informed by the
perspectives of residents of multi-family housing.
In conjunction with publishing the Proposed Draft, the legally required Measure 56 notices were
sent to all affected multi-dwelling zone property owners. In advance of the City Council public
hearing, Measure 56 notices were also sent to a small number of property owners with properties
that had recently been rezoned to multi-dwelling zoning and had not previously received notices.
To support these notices, the BPS website had a project page with the available documents; a Map
App page with a testimony function; project summary sheets in English and in Spanish; BPS staff
created a dedicated help phone line in conjunction with the release of the Proposed Draft; and BPS
staff attended a series of community meetings to explain and answer questions regarding the
Proposed Draft.
The public was provided opportunities to comment and suggest amendments in front of both the
PSC and City Council.
Testimony by James Peterson raised concerns that BPS staff acted as a filter between community
members and decision-makers. Specifically, that public comment summaries prepared by BPS staff
are only concerned with “the body count” and not the substance of the comments. The City Council
rejects this concern. The BPS staff summaries are more than participation counts and provide
information on the topics of interest and the positions. Furthermore, we find that the testimony
reader on-line application makes the written and verbal testimony provided at PSC and City Council
hearings accessible to both the community and the decision-makers, which makes for a more
robust involvement process. Finally, as evidence that the community is involved in all phases of the
planning process, and specifically when decisions are made, the City Council notes the number of
amendments that were made by the PSC and City Council as an indicator of the influence that the
community has on the process – testimony was received and responded to with changes.

Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Partners in decision making
Policy 2.1. Partnerships and coordination. Maintain partnerships and coordinate land use
engagement with:
2.1.a Individual community members.
2.1.b Communities of color, low-income populations, Limited English Proficient (LEP)
communities, Native American communities, and other under-served and under-represented
communities.
2.1.c District coalitions, neighborhood associations, and business district associations as local
experts and communication channels for place-based projects.
2.1.d Businesses, unions, employees, and related organizations that reflect Portland’s diversity as
the center of regional economic and cultural activity.
2.1.e Community-based, faith-based, artistic and cultural, and interest-based non-profits,
organizations, and groups.
2.1.f Institutions, governments, and Sovereign tribes.
Policy 2.2. Broaden partnerships. Work with district coalitions, neighborhood associations, and
business district associations to increase participation and to help them reflect the diversity of the
people and institutions they serve. Facilitate greater communication and collaboration among district
coalitions, neighborhood associations, business district associations, culturally-specific organizations,
and community-based organizations.
58. Finding:  Policies 2.1 and 2.2 provide direction for a broad range of meaningful community
engagement and partnership approaches that complement legally required public notices and
meetings. In addition to meetings with district coalitions and neighborhood associations, the BHD
amendments were informed by a broad range of individuals and groups. A series of Stakeholder
Working Group meetings were held that involved participants with a broad range of perspectives
and experience, including community group representatives, development professionals, tenant
advocates, neighborhood residents, affordable housing providers and age-friendly advocates. All
these meetings were open to the public and included opportunities for public comment. The
amendments were also informed by roundtable discussions with development professionals,
including affordable housing providers, designers, and developers and designers. Meetings that
informed the development of the BHD amendments included meetings with neighborhood
associations and district coalitions, Jade District/APANO, the Rosewood Initiative, Anti-displacement
PDX, the Urban League, historic preservation advocates, and the East Portland Action Plan Housing
Subcommittee.
Environmental justice
Policy 2.3. Extend benefits. Ensure plans and investments promote environmental justice by
extending the community benefits associated with environmental assets, land use, and public
investments to communities of color, low-income populations, and other under-served or under-
represented groups impacted by the decision. Maximize economic, cultural, political, and
environmental benefits through ongoing partnerships.
Policy 2.4. Eliminate burdens. Ensure plans and investments eliminate associated disproportionate
burdens (e.g. adverse environmental, economic, or community impacts) for communities of color,
low-income populations, and other under-served or under-represented groups impacted by the
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

decision.
2.4.a, Minimize or mitigate disproportionate burdens in cases where they cannot be eliminated.
2.4.b, Use plans and investments to address disproportionate burdens of previous decisions.
59. Finding:  For policies 2.3 and 2.4, the 2035 Comprehensive Plan defines “ensure” to mean “to make
sure that something will happen or be available”. The BHD amendments address a number of issues
that had been identified as particular burdens for low-income populations and communities of
color, including housing affordability, the lack of outdoor space in multi-family housing, and
inadequate pedestrian connections in East Portland.  As described in the Recommended Draft
Report, larger proportions of people of color and low-income households live in multi-family
housing than the city as a whole, with half of African-American and Hispanic families with children
living in multi-family housing. The amendments address these issues through new or expanded
development bonuses for projects that include affordable housing, and expanded requirements for
outdoor spaces, including requirements for common areas on large sites to provide opportunities
for play areas, gathering, and growing food that had been identified as important by residents. BPS
used a vulnerability analysis to identify neighborhoods (Census tracts) with higher than average
shares of people that are vulnerable to economic displacement: renters, communities of color,
adults without a four-year college degree and renters. Appendix F of the Recommended Draft
summarizes an analysis of displacement risk in areas with multi-dwelling zone, which reinforced the
need to address housing affordability. The amendments also include provisions intended to
facilitate the creation of new street or pedestrian connections in East Portland, which has large
numbers of vulnerable communities, to make it easier for residents to access local destination and
transit.
Invest in education and training
Policy 2.5. Community capacity building. Enhance the ability of community members, particularly
those in under-served and/or under-represented groups, to develop the relationships, knowledge, and
skills to effectively participate in plan and investment processes.
Policy 2.6. Land use literacy. Provide training and educational opportunities to build the public’s
understanding of land use, transportation, housing, and related topics, and increase capacity for
meaningful participation in planning and investment processes.
Policy 2.7. Agency capacity building. Increase City staff’s capacity, tools, and skills to design and
implement processes that engage a broad diversity of affected and interested communities, including
under-served and under-represented communities, in meaningful and appropriate ways.
60. Finding:  Policies 2.5 through 2.7 concern broad programs to educating community members and
City staff about planning and engagement processes, and are not applicable to this project.
Community assessment
Policy 2.8. Channels of communication. Maintain channels of communication among City Council, the
Planning and Sustainability Commission (PSC), project advisory committees, City staff, and community
members.
61. Finding:  In support of the BHD amendments, the project team conducted briefings with the PSC,
the Portland Housing Advisory Commission (PHAC), the Historic Landmarks Commission, the Urban
Forestry Commission, neighborhood associations, and community groups throughout the process
as described in the Recommended Draft report.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Testimony by James Peterson raised concerns that BPS staff acted as a filter between community
members and decision-makers. Specifically, that public comment summaries prepared by BPS staff
are only concerned with “the body count” and not the substance of the comments. The City Council
rejects this concern. The BPS staff summaries are more than participation counts and provide
information on the topics of interest and the positions. Furthermore, we find that the testimony
reader on-line application makes the written and verbal testimony provided at PSC and City Council
hearings accessible to both the community and the decision-makers, which makes for a more
robust involvement process. Finally, as evidence that the community is involved in all phases of the
planning process, and specifically when decisions are made, the City Council notes the number of
amendments that were made by the PSC and City Council as an indicator of the influence that the
community has on the process – testimony was received and responded to with changes.
Policy 2.9. Community analysis. Collect and evaluate data, including community-validated population
data and information, to understand the needs, priorities, and trends and historical context affecting
different communities in Portland.
62. Finding:  In support of the BHD amendments, the project team analyzed the demographics and
development trends in areas with concentrations of multi-dwelling zoning, as documented in the
Better Housing by Design Assessment Report. Development of the amendments was informed by a
range of previous projects the involved a diversity of community members, including the Healthy
Active Communities for Portland’s Affordable Housing Families Initiative, the Promoting Health
Through Multi-Family Housing Project, the East Portland Action Plan, the Southeast 122nd Avenue
Study, and the Division-Midway Neighborhood Street Plan. All background information was posted
online, allowing community feedback.
Policy 2.10. Community participation in data collection. Provide meaningful opportunities for
individuals and communities to be involved in inventories, mapping, data analysis, and the
development of alternatives.
63. Finding:  In support of the BHD amendments, the project team was informed by a range of previous
projects that involved a diversity of community member participation, including the Healthy Active
Communities for Portland’s Affordable Housing Families Initiative, the Promoting Health Through
Multi-Family Housing Project, the East Portland Action Plan, the Southeast 122nd Avenue Study, and
the Division-Midway Neighborhood Street Plan. All background information was posted online,
allowing community feedback. Community feedback obtained during community walks in the Jade
District and Rosewood neighborhood centers also informed identification of issues.
Policy 2.11. Open Data. Ensure planning and investment decisions are a collaboration among
stakeholders, including those listed in Policy 2.1. Where appropriate, encourage publication,
accessibility, and wide-spread sharing of data collected and generated by the City.
64. Finding:  To provide accessibility and the sharing of data, the BHD amendment documents were
posted to a project specific website, including a Map App (online interactive web-based map
application) that allowed for site-specific information and commenting for all map amendments.
Transparency and accountability
Policy 2.12. Roles and responsibilities. Establish clear roles, rights, and responsibilities for participants
and decision makers in planning and investment processes. Address roles of City bureaus, elected
officials, and participants, including community and neighborhood leadership, business, organizations,
and individuals.
Policy 2.13. Project scope. Establish clear expectations about land use project sponsorship, purpose,
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

design, and how decision makers will use the process results.
Policy 2.14. Community influence. At each stage of the process, identify which elements of a planning
and investment process can be influenced or changed through community involvement. Clarify the
extent to which those elements can be influenced or changed.
Policy 2.15. Documentation and feedback. Provide clear documentation for the rationale supporting
decisions in planning and investment processes. Communicate to participants about the issues raised
in the community involvement process, how public input affected outcomes, and the rationale used to
make decisions.
65. Finding:  Policies 2.12 through 2.15 provide direction regarding roles, responsibilities, feedback
opportunities, and documentation for participants and decision makers. As described in the
findings for Statewide Planning Goal 1 (Citizen Involvement), the legislative process was clearly
outlined in notices, documents and on the project website as to how to testify to influence the
Proposed Draft at the PSC, which amended the proposal. Then the Recommended Draft was
published with the opportunity to testify to the City Council at the October 2, 2019 public hearing.
Throughout this process, BPS staff contacted, met with, and coordinated with stakeholders to
inform them how to engage in the decision-making process, how the process was structured, and
additional opportunities to participate when such opportunities existed.
Community involvement program
Policy 2.16. Community Involvement Program. Maintain a Community Involvement Program that
supports community involvement as an integral and meaningful part of the planning and investment
decision-making process.
Policy 2.17. Community engagement manual. Create, maintain, and actively implement a community
engagement manual that details how to conduct community involvement for planning and investment
projects and decisions.
Policy 2.18. Best practices engagement methods. Utilize community engagement methods, tools, and
technologies that are recognized as best practices.
Policy 2.19. Community Involvement Committee. The Community Involvement Committee (CIC), an
independent advisory body, will evaluate and provide feedback to City staff on community
involvement processes for individual planning and associated investment projects, before, during, and
at the conclusion of these processes.
Policy 2.20. Review bodies. Maintain review bodies, such as the Planning and Sustainability
Commission (PSC), Design Commission, Historic Landmarks Commission, and Adjustment Committee,
to provide an opportunity for community involvement and provide leadership and expertise for
specialized topic areas.
Policy 2.21. Program evaluation. Periodically evaluate the effectiveness of the Community
Involvement Program and recommend and advocate for program and policy improvements. The
Community Involvement Committee (CIC) will advise City staff regarding this evaluation.
Policy 2.22. Shared engagement methods. Coordinate and share methods, tools, and technologies
that lead to successful engagement practices with both government and community partners and
solicit engagement methods from the community.
Policy 2.23. Adequate funding and human resources. Provide a level of funding and human resources
allocated to the Community Involvement Program sufficient to make community involvement an
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

integral part of the planning, policy, investment and development process.
66. Finding:  The City Council interprets policies 2.16 through 2.23 to concern the City’s Community
Involvement Program, including the Community Involvement Committee, and are not applicable
because the BHD amendments do not change this program.
Process design and evaluation
Policy 2.24. Representation. Facilitate participation of a cross-section of the full diversity of affected
Portlanders during planning and investment processes. This diversity includes individuals,
stakeholders, and communities represented by race, color, national origin, English proficiency, gender,
age, disability, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity, and source of income.
Policy 2.25. Early involvement. Improve opportunities for interested and affected community
members to participate early in planning and investment processes, including identifying and
prioritizing issues, needs, and opportunities; participating in process design; and recommending and
prioritizing projects and/or other types of implementation.
67. Finding:  The 2035 Comprehensive Plan defines the verb “facilitate” to mean to make something
easier and the verb “improve” to mean increase, enhance; expand services, facilities, or resources
to become better in terms of quality, condition, effectiveness, or functionality. With respect to
policies 2.24 and 2.25, the City Council interprets these policies to require a project specific
community involvement program to engage a broad range of stakeholders. The community
engagement opportunities in support of the BHD amendments included people who live in multi-
family housing and those involved in the development of housing. The project’s Public Involvement
Plan identified groups who have a stake in the future of multi-family housing and included equity
considerations in identifying impacted populations, which guided the projects public outreach
approach. A series of Stakeholder Working Group meetings were held that involved participants
with a broad range of perspectives and experience, including community group representatives,
development professionals, tenant advocates, neighborhood residents, affordable housing
providers and age-friendly advocates. The amendments were also informed early in the process by
roundtable discussions with development professionals, including affordable housing providers,
designers, and developers and designers. The initial phases of project involved community
members in identify issues that needed to be addressed. Project staff worked closely with the Jade
District/APANO and the Rosewood Initiative to seek involvement by a diversity of East Portland
residents. Accommodations were made available for people with disabilities and those that were
non-English speaking stakeholders to participate in events and access materials.
Policy 2.26. Verifying data. Use data, including community-validated population data, to guide
planning and investment processes and priority setting and to shape community involvement and
decision-making efforts.
Policy 2.27. Demographics. Identify the demographics of potentially affected communities when
initiating a planning or investment project.
Policy 2.28. Historical understanding. To better understand concerns and conditions when initiating a
project, research the history, culture, past plans, and other needs of the affected community,
particularly under-represented and under-served groups, and persons with limited English proficiency
(LEP). Review preliminary findings with members of the community who have institutional and
historical knowledge.
68. Finding:  The City Council interprets policies 2.26 through 2.28 to require a community engagement
program that includes an analysis of potentially affected communities and specific engagement
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

activities with those communities to understand the context, concerns and conditions that will be
affected by the amendments. The BHD amendments were informed by an analysis of demographics
and development trends in areas with concentrations of multi-dwelling zoning, as documented in
the Better Housing by Design Assessment Report. Development of the amendments was informed
by a range of previous projects the involved a diversity of community members, including the
Healthy Active Communities for Portland’s Affordable Housing Families Initiative, the Promoting
Health Through Multi-Family Housing Project, the East Portland Action Plan, the Southeast 122nd
Avenue Study, and the Division-Midway Neighborhood Street Plan. All background information was
posted online, allowing community feedback. Community feedback obtained during community
walks in the Jade District and Rosewood neighborhood centers also informed identification of
issues.
Policy 2.29. Project-specific needs. Customize community involvement processes to meet the needs
of those potentially affected by the planning or investment project. Use community involvement
techniques that fit the scope, character, and potential impact of the planning or investment decision
under consideration.
Policy 2.30. Culturally-appropriate processes. Consult with communities to design culturally-
appropriate processes to meet the needs of those affected by a planning or investment project.
Evaluate, use, and document creative and culturally-appropriate methods, tools, technologies, and
spaces to inform and engage people from under-served and under-represented groups about planning
or investment projects.
Policy 2.31. Innovative engagement methods. Develop and document innovative methods, tools, and
technologies for community involvement processes for plan and investment projects.
Policy 2.32. Inclusive participation beyond Portland residents. Design public processes for planning
and investment projects to engage affected and interested people who may not live in Portland such
as property owners, employees, employers, and students, among others, as practicable.
Policy 2.33. Inclusive participation in Central City planning. Design public processes for the Central
City that recognize its unique role as the region’s center. Engage a wide range of stakeholders from
the Central City and throughout the region including employees, employers, social service providers,
students, and visitors, as well as regional tourism, institutional, recreation, transportation, and
local/regional government representatives, as appropriate.
Policy 2.34. Accessibility. Ensure that community involvement processes for planning and investment
projects are broadly accessible in terms of location, time, and language, and that they support the
engagement of individuals with a variety of abilities and limitations on participation.
69. Finding:  The City Council interprets policies 2.29 through 2.34 to require projects to require
community engagement activities that create an inclusive process that engages the affected
communities. The community involvement process was designed to involve a variety of individuals
and groups who live in, develop, or are affected by multi-dwelling housing. The project’s Public
Involvement Plan identified groups who have a stake in the future of multi-family housing and
included equity considerations in identifying impacted populations, which guided the projects
public outreach approach. BPS hired consultants with expertise in engaging diverse communities,
MultiCultural Collaborative, to help design the outreach approach, identify ways of engaging
community members not familiar with planning processes, and identify potential participants.
Project staff worked closely with the Jade District/APANO and the Rosewood Initiative to seek
involvement by a diversity of East Portland residents, given that part of the intent of the project
was to address concerns about multi-dwelling development and the lack of street connections in
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

East Portland. With the release of the Proposed Draft, the City deployed innovative engagement
methods, including a Map App (online interactive web-based map application) page with a
testimony function; and a dedicated help phone line to learn about the BHD amendments and offer
numerous ways to comment. The Planning and Sustainability Commission public hearing, along
with half of the Stakeholder Working Group meetings, where held in Eastern Portland to facilitate
participation by East Portland residents. Meeting locations were chosen that were physically
accessible, convenient to transit, and in a variety of locations across the city.

Policy 2.35. Participation monitoring. Evaluate and document participant demographics throughout
planning and investment processes to assess whether participation reflects the demographics of
affected communities. Adapt involvement practices and activities accordingly to increase effectiveness
at reaching targeted audiences.
Policy 2.36. Adaptability. Adapt community involvement processes for planning and investment
projects as appropriate to flexibly respond to changes in the scope and priority of the issues, needs,
and other factors that may affect the process.
Policy 2.37. Process evaluation. Evaluate each community involvement process for planning or
investment projects from both the City staff and participants’ perspectives, and consider feedback and
lessons learned to enhance future involvement efforts.
70. Finding:  The City Council interprets policies 2.35 through 2.37 to require evaluation and
adjustment to community engagement activities to increase the participation of affected
communities as the project proceeds. Project staff monitored participation in project events and
public feedback to assess representation issues and identify needs for changes in approach. This
resulted in an East Portland Residential Outdoor Spaces workshop to seek additional perspectives
and more in-depth discussion among East Portland residents than was possible in other meetings
with a more citywide focus. The use in this project of a Stakeholder Working Group, open to
interested community members and whose participants shifted based on the geographic focus and
topics of each meeting, differed from the more usual approach of appointed advisory groups. This
approach was discussed by staff to provide lessons for future projects.
Information design and development
Policy 2.38. Accommodation. Ensure accommodations to let individuals with disabilities participate in
administrative, quasi-judicial, and legislative land use decisions, consistent with federal regulations.
71. Finding: All of the BHD public hearing were held in physically-accessible locations and notices
publicized the availability of accommodations, modifications, translation, interpretation and other
services to provide meaningful public access. The PSC public hearing on June 12, 2018 was held in
the evening at the Portland Community College Southeast Campus to make the meeting more
convenient to reach for community members in East Portland and other eastside neighborhoods.
The City Council hearings on October 2 and November 6, 2019 were held at City Hall, an accessible
location.
Policy 2.39. Notification. Notify affected and interested community members and recognized
organizations about administrative, quasi-judicial, and legislative land use decisions with enough lead
time to enable effective participation. Consider notification to both property owners and renters.
72. Finding:  For the publication of the Proposed Draft and the PSC hearing, the City sent the required
Measure 56 notice to all owners of multi-dwelling zone properties affected by the BHD
amendments. The City sent a legislative notice to interested parties, including neighborhood
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

associations, business associations, and other affected jurisdictions, that have requested notice of
proposed land use changes. Two sets of courtesy notices were sent to property owners in the
Alphabet and King’s Hill historic districts, first to inform them of opportunities to provide input on
Zoning Code and Zoning Map changes that were being considered for these historic districts, and
second to inform them that the Recommended Draft included changes to the zoning designations
for their properties that differed from what had been indicated in the Measure 56 notices.  The City
also sent a legislative notice to interested parties and people who testified to the PSC to inform
them of the opportunity to testify at the October 2, 2019, City Council public hearing.
Policy 2.40. Tools for effective participation. Provide clear and easy access to information about
administrative, quasi-judicial, and legislative land use decisions in multiple formats and through
technological advancements and other ways.
73. Finding:  Regular communications about the BHD project and opportunities to participate and
provide input were made available through the project website, monthly e-mail updates to the
project mailing list, Bureau of Planning and Sustainability newsletters, social media sites (Facebook,
NextDoor and Twitter) and media releases.
Policy 2.41. Limited English Proficiency (LEP). Ensure that limited English proficient (LEP) individuals
are provided meaningful access to information about administrative, quasi-judicial, and legislative
land use decisions, consistent with federal regulations.
74. Finding:  The BHD project outreach materials publicized the availability of translation services for
limited English proficient individuals. The Proposed Draft Project Summary was translated into
Spanish and made available online and at community meetings. The telephone helpline had
translation services available, as well as the PSC and City Council public hearings.

Chapter 3: Urban Form
GOAL 3.A: A city designed for people. Portland’s built environment is designed to serve the needs and
aspirations of all Portlanders, promoting prosperity, health, equity, and resiliency. New development,
redevelopment, and public investments reduce disparities and encourage social interaction to create a
healthy connected city.
75. Finding:  The BHD amendments expand the range of housing choices available to Portlanders,
especially in terms of incentivizing affordable options and more accessible units through
development bonuses. The BHD changes include significant incentives for affordable housing that
will help to reduce disparities. The changes also provide new options for a broader range and
number of housing units by moving to regulating by building scale, with more flexibility for the
numbers of units within this scale. New visitability standards will help increase the number of units
that can meet the needs of Portland’s aging and disabled communities.
The BHD amendments foster and promote health and social interaction through new development
standards that increase requirements for outdoor space, including requirements for large sites to
include common areas to support opportunities for recreation, social interaction, and growing
food.
GOAL 3.B: A climate and hazard resilient urban form. Portland’s compact urban form, sustainable
building development practices, green infrastructure, and active transportation system reduce carbon
emissions, reduce natural hazard risks and impacts, and improve resilience to the effects of climate
change.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

76. Finding:  The BHD amendments promote a compact urban form by allowing more units, especially
in the RM1 and RM2 zones. Facilitating compact development in the multi-dwelling zones will help
to focus growth in and around centers and corridors, avoiding sensitive natural areas and hazards
and contributing to complete neighborhoods that support neighborhood resilience and a low-
carbon economy. This also enables established neighborhoods to continue expanding and
diversifying their populations while reducing pressure for development in harder to serve and
longer to commute to places. The amendments reduce minimum off-street parking requirements
which helps to encourage use of alternate transportation modes like transit and active
transportation. In addition, newer buildings are designed with greater energy efficiency and can
better withstand earthquake and other natural disasters. Other amendments limit large surface
parking lots and asphalt in order to reduce urban heat islands that will be an increasing threat in a
warming climate.
GOAL 3.C: Focused growth. Household and employment growth is focused in the Central City and
other centers, corridors, and transit station areas, creating compact urban development in areas with
a high level of service and amenities, while allowing the relative stability of lower-density single-family
residential areas.
77. Finding:  The household allocation form the Buildable Lands Inventory continues to project the vast
majority (80%) of units will be developed in the Central City and Portland’s mixed-use, higher-
density centers and corridors. 80 percent of multi-dwelling zoning is located in Portland’s focus
growth areas, including in and around centers, along corridors and transit stations, and in locations
close to the Central City.  The BHD amendments will encourage more housing opportunities in
these areas by regulating by floor area ratio and increasing the affordable housing bonuses. The
BHD development standards include building scale transitions to single-dwelling zones that will
contribute to the stability of single-family residential areas.
GOAL 3.D: A system of centers and corridors. Portland’s interconnected system of centers and
corridors provides diverse housing options and employment opportunities, robust multimodal
transportation connections, access to local services and amenities, and supports low-carbon complete,
healthy, and equitable communities.
78. Finding:  The centers and corridors envisioned by the Urban Design framework are supported by
the BHD amendments. These areas will continue to serve as the focus for employment and higher
density housing. The BHD amendments will encourage more housing opportunities in these areas
by regulating by floor area ratio, providing more flexibility for greater numbers of units, and
increasing the affordable housing bonuses. In addition, the BHD amendments provide new options
for ground-floor commercial uses in multi-dwelling zones along civic and neighborhood corridors,
reinforcing the roles of these corridors as places for a diverse range of housing opportunities and
commercial services.
GOAL 3.E: Connected public realm and open spaces. A network of parks, streets, City Greenways, and
other public spaces supports community interaction; connects neighborhoods, districts, and
destinations; and improves air, water, land quality, and environmental health.
79. Finding:  The BHD amendments include provisions intended to facilitate new street and pedestrian
connections where they are needed, such as through requirements for sites in Eastern Portland
centers to be large enough to accommodate street connections (as well as to support better site
design) and by allowing development allowances to be calculated prior to street dedications to
reduce barriers to including new connections as part of development. Also, requirements for front
setbacks will provide more opportunities for integrating green elements into the street
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

environment. Reduced on-site parking requirements and limits on garages and front parking are
intended to improve the pedestrian relationship between the buildings and the public realm and to
help reduce conflicts between pedestrians on sidewalks and vehicles using driveways.
GOAL 3.F: Employment districts. Portland supports job growth in a variety of employment districts to
maintain a diverse economy.
80. Finding:  The BHD amendments do not affect employment districts.
GOAL 3.G: Nature in the city. A system of habitat corridors weaves nature into the city, enhances
habitat connectivity, and preserves natural resources and the ecosystem services they provide.
81. Finding:  The BHD amendments include new requirements for outdoor spaces, shared common
areas, limits on surface parking lots, front setback standards, and rear setback standards that will
create opportunities for more landscaping and trees that will support this goal. The amendments
also promote preserving existing large trees by allowing development rights to be transferred to
other sites in exchange for tree preservation.
Citywide design and development
Policy 3.1. Urban Design Framework. Use the Urban Design Framework (UDF) as a guide to create
inclusive and enduring places, while providing flexibility for implementation at the local scale to meet
the needs of local communities.
82. Finding:  The BHD amendments are consistent with this policy and the Urban Design Framework
(UDF). BHD amendments apply development standards specific to the Civic Corridors and
Neighborhood Corridors identified in the UDF, including allowances for ground-floor commercial
uses, higher allowed building coverage and allowances for no side setbacks intended to reinforce
the intended roles of these corridors as urban-scale places with concentrations of services and
housing. BHD amendments include provisions specific to the pattern areas identified in the UDF,
including development standards specific to the Eastern and Inner neighborhood pattern areas. The
BHD amendments are also consistent with centers identified on the UDF. The majority of multi-
dwelling zoning (59 percent) is located in or within a quarter mile of centers. The BHD amendments
shift from regulating development from unit density to regulating by building scale (FAR) providing
flexibility to develop more units than the current regulations, which will support the role of centers
by expanding housing capacity in multi-dwelling zones located in centers. Allowing more units in
the multi-dwelling zones will reinforce the role of centers as places with concentrations of housing,
which will in turn provide additional population to support commercial services in centers.
Policy 3.2. Growth and stability. Direct the majority of growth and change to centers, corridors, and
transit station areas, allowing the continuation of the scale and characteristics of Portland’s residential
neighborhoods.
83. Finding:  Most of the multi-dwelling zoning is located in centers and corridors and will continue to
be supported by the BHD amendments. The BHD amendments will encourage more housing
opportunities in these areas by regulating by floor area ratio, allowing flexibility for greater
numbers of units, and increasing the affordable housing bonuses. The RM1 zone, which is the
multi-dwelling zone that is the most common outside the centers and corridors, has a 35-foot
maximum building height, which is similar to the 30-foot maximum building height in R5 and R2.5
single-dwelling zones that cover most of the residential neighborhoods, helping to continue the
scale of residential neighborhoods.  In addition, for the other multi-dwelling zones, there are
building height transition requirements that limit building height to 35-feet within 25 feet of single-
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

dwelling zones.  These provisions will allow the continuation of the scale and characteristics of
Portland’s residential neighborhoods.
Policy 3.3. Equitable development. Guide development, growth, and public facility investment to
reduce disparities; encourage equitable access to opportunities, mitigate the impacts of development
on income disparity, displacement and housing affordability; and produce positive outcomes for all
Portlanders.
84. Finding:  One of the ways to reduce disparities and produce positive outcomes for all Portlanders is
to increase housing stability by creating more opportunities for affordable housing. The BHD
changes include four significant incentives for affordable housing: 1) increase the inclusionary
affordable housing bonus; 2) provide a deeper affordability bonus; 3) provide a bonus for three-
bedroom units; and 4) allow the transfer of unused development capacity in situations where
existing affordable housing is preserved, which also helps limit displacement by providing an
incentive for preserving existing housing kept affordable to households earning no more than 60%
of area median income. In so doing, the BHD amendments provide more housing attainable to a
broader segment of the population, reducing the wide disparity of housing available between
income strata and can contribute to mitigating residential displacement. The changes also
contribute to equity through development bonuses for “visitable” housing that is physically-
accessible to people with a range of abilities, through provisions that address the need for street
connections and outdoor spaces in East Portland, and by increasing opportunities for home-based
businesses and services along East Portland’s corridors and other corridor locations.
3.3.a. Anticipate, avoid, reduce, and mitigate negative public facility and development impacts,
especially where those impacts inequitably burden communities of color, under-served and
under-represented communities, and other vulnerable populations.
85. Finding:  The displacement impacts of the BHD amendments were analyzed and reported in
Appendix F of the Recommended Draft report. The greatest risk of negative impacts from the BHD
amendments is displacement due to the redevelopment of existing housing units, especially those
units occupied by under-served and under-represented communities. Most of the development
capacity in the multi-dwelling zones is through redevelopment of existing development. Only 16
percent of the future development capacity is on vacant land.  Most of the additional
redevelopment sites are single-family houses in multi-dwelling zones, where about 60 percent are
owner-occupied. The greatest risk for displacement would be with the redevelopment of multi-
dwelling structures, but the BPS displacement risk analysis indicates that very few properties (10 to
24 sites with up to 67 units) have low enough values to be feasible for redevelopment. These
impacts are mitigated by four significant incentives for affordable housing that will help to offset
any displacement that occurs.
Testimony by James Peterson raised concerns that the BHD amendments would result in
redevelopment of existing multi-dwelling housing, which will lead to the displacement and
gentrification of existing affordable rental units. The City Council acknowledges this concern but
finds that, based on the displacement analysis described above, the risk of redevelopment of
existing multi-family units is low and that those risks and potential loss of more affordable units is
mitigated by the development bonuses that incentivize the production of affordable housing units.
3.3.b. Make needed investments in areas that are deficient in public facilities to reduce
disparities and increase equity. Accompany these investments with proactive measures to avoid
displacement and increase affordable housing.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

86. Finding:  The BHD amendments do not change public facility investment plans, but do include pro-
active measures in the form of four significant incentives (development bonuses) for affordable
housing that can mitigate displacement and increase the supply of regulated affordable housing.
3.3.c. Encourage use of plans, agreements, incentives, and other tools to promote equitable
outcomes from development projects that benefit from public financial assistance.
87. Finding:  The City Council finds that the use of various tools to promote equitable outcomes
specifically for projects that benefit from public financial assistance is a programmatic response,
and not a regulatory response to be included in the Zoning Code. The BHD amendments address
displacement and housing affordability in a different way through affordable housing development
bonuses.
3.3.d. Incorporate requirements into the Zoning Code to provide public and community benefits
as a condition for development projects to receive increased development allowances
88. Finding:  All of the BHD development bonuses link receiving additional development scale to the
provision of community benefits, specifically affordable housing and physically-accessible units. The
City Council interprets community benefits to include outcomes that provide affordable housing
and physically-accessible units, both of which outcomes meet important community needs
identified in the Comprehensive Plan. The BHD development bonuses include: 1) expanded
inclusionary housing bonus for projects providing affordable units; 2) a new deeper housing
affordability bonus for projects in which at least half of units are affordable at 60% of area median
income; 3) a bonus for moderate-income three-bedroom units; and 4) a bonus for projects that
include visitable or accessible units to expand housing options for community members with
mobility limitations. The BHD amendments also include an allowance for FAR to be transferred to
other sites from sites where existing affordable housing is being preserved as affordable housing.
3.3.e. When private property value is increased by public plans and investments, require
development to address or mitigate displacement impacts and impacts on housing affordability,
in ways that are related and roughly proportional to these impacts.
89. Finding:  The BHD financial feasibility analysis (Appendix C) showed that the base zone changes do
not result in a significant increase in value compared to the development allowances in the current
multi-dwelling base zones. The only development scenario in this analysis that showed an increase
in value beyond the maximum achievable by current regulations was a development configuration
that used the inclusionary housing bonus in the RM2 zone that included units affordable at 60% of
area median income, in exchange for receiving additional FAR. The City Council interprets the
provision of affordable housing units through inclusionary housing and other affordable housing
bonuses to serve as appropriate mitigation for the value provided by the additional development
scale allowed by the bonuses. In addition, the City has other existing mechanisms, such as the
construction excise tax dedicated to affordable housing, that helps to mitigate displacement
impacts.
3.3.f. Coordinate housing, economic development, and public facility plans and investments to
create an integrated community development approach to restore communities impacted by
past decisions.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

90. Finding:  The BHD amendments are part of the Housing Opportunity Initiative that is designed to
increase housing opportunity and address displacement across Portland, providing a greater range
of housing choices and more incentives for affordable housing.
3.3.g. Encourage developers to engage directly with a broad range of impacted communities to
identify potential impacts of private development projects, develop mitigation measures, and
provide community benefits to address adverse impacts.
91. Finding:  The verb “encourage”, which is defined in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, means to
promote or foster using some combination of voluntary approaches, regulations, or incentives. The
Neighborhood contact requirements encourage dialogue between developers and impacted
communities, which can include discussion of impacts, mitigation and community benefits.
Policy 3.4. All ages and abilities. Strive for a built environment that provides a safe, healthful, and
attractive environment for people of all ages and abilities.
92. Finding:  The BHD amendments provide a density FAR bonus for projects in which at least 25
percent of the units are physically accessible or “visitable” dwelling units. These units will provide a
barrier free entry, with living space and a bathroom on the ground floor. While not considered fully
“accessible” under ADA building code requirements, visitable units will expand the amount of
housing that can be access by residents and visitors with mobility limitations by providing a barrier-
free level of living space in housing types, such as houses and duplexes, not subject to Fair Housing
Act requirements. Also, the visitable units bonus provides an incentive for commercial code
buildings to include more highly-accessible Type A units, when at least 25 percent of units are built
to this accessibility standard, which will expand options for people using wheelchairs or other
wheeled mobility devices.
The BHD amendments also support healthy, active living through new development standards that
increase requirements for outdoor space, including requirements for large sites to include common
areas to support opportunities for recreation, social interaction, and growing food.
Policy 3.5. Energy and resource efficiency. Support energy-efficient, resource-efficient, and
sustainable development and transportation patterns through land use and transportation planning.
93. Findings:  The BHD amendments encourage compact housing forms, and improve land resource
conservation by increasing housing capacity within areas with existing infrastructure capacity. 80
percent of the multi-dwelling zoning is located in or within a quarter mile of Portland’s centers,
corridors, and transit stations, or near the Central City, which will enable more households to be
located closer to transit, jobs, and centers of commerce, recreation and education. This well help
reduce commute distances and lessen congestion through the region. Encouraging more compact
multi-dwelling building forms will be more energy efficient than current zoning allowances,
according to studies by the Oregon DEQ3 and EPA4.
Policy 3.6. Land efficiency. Provide strategic investments and incentives to leverage infill,
redevelopment, and promote intensification of scarce urban land while protecting environmental
quality.

3 https://www.oregon.gov/lcd/UP/Documents/Space_Efficient_Housing_NoApp.pdf
4 https://www.epa.gov/sites/production/files/2014-03/documents/location_efficiency_btu.pdf
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

94. Findings:  The BHD amendments shift to regulating density by a floor area ratio will create more
flexibility in the allowed number of housing units on sites and promote intensification of urban
land.  The BLI shows that the BHD amendments increase Portland’s residential development
capacity by 14,000 units.
Policy 3.7. Integrate nature. Integrate nature and use green infrastructure throughout Portland.
95. Findings: The City integrates nature and green infrastructure through environmental overlay zones,
stormwater requirements, and tree code requirements, which are not changed by this ordinance.
The BHD amendments include new requirements for outdoor spaces, shared common areas, limits
on surface parking lots, front setback standards, and rear setback standards that will create
opportunities for more landscaping and trees that will support integrating vegetation and green
elements into new development projects. The amendments include provisions that will allow green
infrastructure, such as ecoroofs and stormwater planters, to contribute to meeting landscaping
requirements. The amendments also promote preserving existing large trees by allowing
development rights to be transferred to other sites in exchange for tree preservation.
Policy 3.8. Leadership and innovation in design. Encourage high-performance design and
development that demonstrates Portland’s leadership in the design of the built environment,
commitment to a more equitable city, and ability to experiment and generate innovative design
solutions.
96. Finding:  The BHD amendments include design-related amendments that promote Portland’s role in
leadership in design, such as innovative provisions intended to limit urban heat island impacts,
people-centered design standards for outdoor spaces that focus on design supportive of human
health and active living, and options for urban green options such as ecoroofs to serve as
alternatives to conventional landscaping.
Policy 3.9. Growth and development. Evaluate the potential impacts of planning and investment
decisions, significant new infrastructure, and significant new development on the physical
characteristics of neighborhoods and their residents, particularly under-served and under-represented
communities, with attention to displacement and affordability impacts. Identify and implement
strategies to mitigate the anticipated impacts.
97. Finding:  The City of Portland is planning for growth and development, especially in centers and
corridors. The BHD amendments shift to regulating density by a floor area ratio (FAR) method, but
this change is expected to result in development that is similar to the physical characteristics
allowed by the current multi-dwelling zoning because there are not significant changes to the
maximum building height, setbacks, and lot coverage standards that determine the physical
characteristics of development.
The BHD amendments will have an impact on residents. BHD amendments provide allowances for
ground-floor commercial uses along major corridors and also allow for daycare facilities broadly in
the multi-dwelling zones, which can benefit area residents by increasing access to services,
especially in areas such as East Portland that lack convenient access to local services. BHD
allowances for additional housing units can benefit area residents by expanding housing options,
providing additional housing opportunities for residents or their families. The greatest risk of
negative impact is displacement due to the redevelopment of existing housing units, especially
those units occupied by under-served and under-represented communities. Most of the
development capacity in the multi-dwelling zones is through redevelopment of existing
development. Only 16 percent of the future development capacity is on vacant land. Most of the
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

potential multi-dwelling redevelopment sites are single-family houses in multi-dwelling zones,
where about 40 percent are renter-occupied. Another risk for displacement is the redevelopment
of multi-dwelling structures. However, the BPS displacement risk analysis indicates that very few
(~160) households are at risk with property values that are low enough to be feasible for
redevelopment. These impacts are mitigated by four significant incentives for affordable housing
that will help to offset any displacement that occurs.
Policy 3.10. Rural, urbanizable, and urban land. Preserve the rural character of rural land outside the
Regional Urban Growth Boundary. Limit urban development of urbanizable land beyond the City
Limits until it is annexed and full urban services are extended.
98. Findings:  The BHD amendments do not affect rural land outside the Regional Urban Growth
Boundary or land outside the City limits that do not already have urban services.
Policy 3.11. Significant places. Enhance and celebrate significant places throughout Portland with
symbolic features or iconic structures that reinforce local identity, histories, and cultures and
contribute to way-finding throughout the city. Consider these especially at:
 High-visibility intersections
 Attractions
 Schools, libraries, parks, and other civic places
 Bridges
 Rivers
 Viewpoints and view corridor locations
 Historically or culturally significant places
 Connections to volcanic buttes and other geologic and natural landscape features
 Neighborhood boundaries and transitions
99. Finding:  The BHD amendments do not impact symbolic features or iconic structures.  No changes
to historic resource protections are made with these amendments. For these resources,
conversions that add units can be proposed that will either be reviewed against historic resource
criteria or required to meet design standards.
Centers
Policy 3.12. Role of centers. Enhance centers as anchors of complete neighborhoods that include
concentrations of commercial and public services, housing, employment, gathering places, and green
spaces.
Policy 3.13. Variety of centers. Plan for a range of centers across the city to enhance local, equitable
access to services, and expand housing opportunities.
Policy 3.14. Housing in centers. Provide housing capacity for enough population to support a broad
range of commercial services, focusing higher-density housing within a half-mile of the center core.
Policy 3.15. Investments in centers. Encourage public and private investment in infrastructure,
economic development, and community services in centers to ensure that all centers will support the
populations they serve.
Policy 3.16. Government services. Encourage the placement of services in centers, including schools
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

and colleges, health services, community centers, daycare, parks and plazas, library services, and
justice services.
Policy 3.17. Arts and culture. Ensure that land use plans and infrastructure investments allow for and
incorporate arts, culture, and performance arts as central components of centers.
Policy 3.18. Accessibility. Design centers to be compact, safe, attractive, and accessible places, where
the street environment makes access by transit, walking, biking, and mobility devices such as
wheelchairs, safe and attractive for people of all ages and abilities.
Policy 3.19. Center connections. Connect centers to each other and to other key local and regional
destinations, such as schools, parks, and employment areas, by frequent and convenient transit,
bicycle sharing, bicycle routes, pedestrian trails and sidewalks, and electric vehicle charging stations.
Policy 3.20. Green infrastructure in centers. Integrate nature and green infrastructure into centers
and enhance public views and connections to the surrounding natural features.
100. Finding:  Policies 3.12 through 3.20 provide direction on the desired characteristics and functions of
centers. The BHD amendments do not change the center designations on the Urban Design
Framework. The majority of multi-dwelling zoning (59 percent) is located in or within a quarter mile
of centers. The BHD amendments shift from regulating development from unit density to regulating
by building scale (FAR), providing flexibility to develop more units than the current regulations,
which will support these center policies by expanding housing capacity in multi-dwelling zones
located in centers. Allowing more units in the multi-dwelling zones will reinforce the role of centers
as places with concentrations of housing, which will in turn provide additional population to
support commercial services in centers. Development bonuses for accessible housing supports
Policy 3.18 by expanding accessible housing options in centers. Policy 3.19 is support by BHD
amendments intended to facilitate new street and pedestrian connections where they are needed,
such as through requirements for sites in Eastern Portland centers to be large enough to
accommodate street connections (as well as to support better site design) and by allowing
development allowances to be calculated prior to street dedications to reduce barriers to including
new connections as part of development. Amendments that promote green infrastructure, such as
ecoroofs and stormwater planters, will support Policy 3.20 by expanding opportunities for green
infrastructure in centers.
Central City
Policy 3.21. Role of the Central City. Encourage continued growth and investment in the Central City,
and recognize its unique role as the region’s premier center for jobs, services, and civic and cultural
institutions that support the entire city and region.
Policy 3.22. Model Urban Center. Promote the Central City as a living laboratory that demonstrates
how the design and function of a dense urban center can concurrently provide equitable benefits to
human health, the natural environment, and the local economy.
Policy 3.23. Central City employment. Encourage the growth of the Central City’s regional share of
employment and continue its growth as the region’s unique center for innovation and exchange
through commerce, employment, arts, culture, entertainment, tourism, education, and government.
Policy 3.24. Central City housing. Encourage the growth of the Central City as Portland’s and the
region’s largest center with the highest concentrations of housing and with a diversity of housing
options and services.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy 3.25. Transportation hub. Enhance the Central City as the region’s multimodal transportation
hub and optimize regional access as well as the movement of people and goods among key
destinations.
Policy 3.26. Public places. Promote public places and the Willamette River waterfront in the Central
City as places of business and social activity and gathering for the people of its districts and the
broader region.
101. Finding:   Policies 3.21 through 3.26 provide direction on the desired characteristics and functions
of the Central City. The BHD amendments do not change the Central City boundary on the Urban
Design Framework. The BHD amendments primarily concern residential development in the multi-
dwelling zones that are applied outside of the Central City, and, therefore and do not impact most
of the Central City policies. The BHD amendments are in alignment with Policy 3.24 by facilitating
housing development in the multi-dwelling zones. The primary multi-dwelling zones located in the
Central City are RX (69 acres) and RH (28 acres – to become the RM3 and RM4 zones).
Development scale in these zones are not significantly impacted by the BHD amendments. 11 acres
of land in the Central City will have the new RM1 and RM2 zones (instead of the current R2 and R1
zones). The BHD amendments for these zones shift from regulating development from unit density
to regulating by building scale, which will provide flexibility for more units, supporting the role of
the Central City as the location for concentrations of housing.
Gateway Regional Center
Policy 3.27 Role of Gateway. Encourage growth and investment in Gateway to enhance its role as East
Portland’s center of employment, commercial, and public services.
Policy 3.28 Housing. Encourage housing in Gateway, to create East Portland’s largest concentration of
high-density housing.
Policy 3.29 Transportation. Enhance Gateway’s role as a regional high-capacity transit hub that serves
as an anchor for East Portland’s multimodal transportation system.
Policy 3.30 Public places. Enhance the public realm and public places in Gateway to provide a vibrant
and attractive setting for business and social activity that serves East Portland residents and the
region.
102. Finding:  Policies 3.27 through 3.30 provide direction on the desired characteristics and functions of
the Gateway Regional Center. The BHD amendments do not change the regional center boundary
on the Urban Design Framework. There are 130 acres of land with multi-dwelling zoning located in
the Gateway Regional Center. This acreage includes the new RM1 and RM2 zones (current R2 and
R1), for which the BHD amendments shift from regulating development from unit density to
regulating by building scale, providing flexibility for more units. This increased housing capacity
supports the role of Gateway as the location of East Portland’s largest concentration of high-density
housing. Allowing more units in the multi-dwelling zones will also allow for additional population to
support commercial services in Gateway.
Town Centers
Policy 3.31 Role of Town Centers. Enhance Town Centers as successful places that serve the needs of
surrounding neighborhoods as well as a wider area, and contain higher concentrations of
employment, institutions, commercial and community services, and a wide range of housing options.
Policy 3.32 Housing. Provide for a wide range of housing types in Town Centers, which are intended to
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

generally be larger in scale than the surrounding residential areas. There should be sufficient zoning
capacity within a half-mile walking distance of a Town Center to accommodate 7,000 households.
Policy 3.33 Transportation. Improve Town Centers as multimodal transportation hubs that optimize
access from the broad area of the city they serve and are linked to the region’s high-capacity transit
system.
Policy 3.34 Public places. Provide parks or public squares within or near Town Centers to support their
roles as places of focused business and social activity.
103. Finding:  Policies 3.31 through 3.34 provide direction on the desired characteristics and functions of
the town centers. The BHD amendments do not change the boundary any of the Town Centers on
the Urban Design Framework. All of Portland’s designated Town Centers include substantial
amounts of multi-dwelling zoning. The BHD amendments shift from regulating development from
unit density to regulating by building scale (FAR) creates the flexibility to develop more units than
the current regulations, will therefore support these center policies by expanding housing capacity
in multi-dwelling zones in town centers.  Allowing more units in the multi-dwelling zones will
reinforce the role of Town Centers as places with concentrations of housing, which will also allow
for additional population to support commercial services in Town Centers. The BHD amendments
also support Policy 3.32 by allowing for a broader of housing types than current density-based
regulations.
Neighborhood Centers
Policy 3.35 Role of Neighborhood Centers. Enhance Neighborhood Centers as successful places that
serve the needs of surrounding neighborhoods. In Neighborhood Centers, provide for higher
concentrations of development, employment, commercial and community services, and a wider range
of housing options than the surrounding neighborhoods.
Policy 3.36 Housing. Provide for a wide range of housing types in Neighborhood Centers, which are
intended to generally be larger in scale than the surrounding residential areas, but smaller than Town
Centers. There should be sufficient zoning capacity within a half-mile walking distance of a
Neighborhood Center to accommodate 3,500 households.
Policy 3.37 Transportation. Design Neighborhood Centers as multimodal transportation hubs that are
served by frequent-service transit and optimize pedestrian and bicycle access from adjacent
neighborhoods.
Policy 3.38 Public places. Provide small parks or plazas within or near Neighborhood Centers to
support their roles as places of local activity and gathering.
104. Finding:  Policies 3.35 through 3.38 provide direction on the desired characteristics and functions of
neighborhood centers. The BHD amendments do not change the neighborhood center boundaries
on the Urban Design Framework. Many of Portland’s Neighborhood Centers include the new RM1
and RM2 zones (current R2 and R1). The BHD amendments shift from regulating development from
unit density to regulating by building scale (FAR) creates the flexibility to develop more units than
the current regulations, will therefore support these center policies by expanding housing capacity
in multi-dwelling zones in neighborhood centers. Allowing more units in the multi-dwelling zones
will reinforce the role of Neighborhood Centers as places with concentrations of housing, which will
also allow for additional population to support commercial services in Neighborhood Centers. The
BHD amendments also support Policy 3.32 by allowing for a broader of housing types than current
density-based regulations. Some Neighborhood Centers include the new RM1 zone, whose scale
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

(maximum 35-foot height and 50 percent lot coverage) is smaller than the higher-density zones in
larger centers, and provides greater continuity with the scale of residential neighborhoods. Policy
3.37 is support by BHD amendments intended to facilitate new street and pedestrian connections
in the Jade District, Rosewood-Glenfair, and 122nd-Hazelwood neighborhood centers, through
requirements for sites to be large enough to accommodate street connections (as well as to
support better site design) and by allowing development allowances to be calculated prior to street
dedications to reduce barriers to including new connections as part of development.
Inner Ring Districts
Policy 3.39 Growth. Expand the range of housing and employment opportunities in the Inner Ring
Districts. Emphasize growth that replaces gaps in the historic urban fabric, such as redevelopment of
surface parking lots and 20th century auto-oriented development.
Policy 3.40 Corridors. Guide growth in corridors to transition to mid-rise scale close to the Central
City, especially along Civic Corridors.
Policy 3.41 Distinct identities. Maintain and enhance the distinct identities of the Inner Ring Districts
and their corridors. Use and expand existing historic preservation and design review tools to
accommodate growth in ways that identify and preserve historic resources and enhance the
distinctive characteristics of the Inner Ring Districts, especially in areas experiencing significant
development.
Policy 3.42 Diverse residential areas. Provide a diversity of housing opportunities in the Inner Ring
Districts’ residential areas. Encourage approaches that preserve or are compatible with existing
historic properties in these areas. Acknowledge that these areas are historic assets and should retain
their established characteristics and development patterns, even as Inner Ring centers and corridors
grow. Apply base zones in a manner that takes historic character and adopted design guidelines into
account.
Policy 3.43 Active transportation. Enhance the role of the Inner Ring Districts’ extensive transit,
bicycle, and pedestrian networks in conjunction with land uses that optimize the ability for more
people to utilize this network. Improve the safety of pedestrian and bike connections to the Central
City. Strengthen transit connections between the Inner Ring Districts and to the Central City.
105. Finding:  Policies 3.39 through 3.43 provide direction on the desired characteristics and functions of
the Inner Ring Districts. The BHD amendments support these policies by expand the range of
previously allowed housing opportunities in multi-dwelling zones. The BHD amendments shift from
regulating development from unit density to regulating by building scale (FAR) creates the
flexibility to develop more units than the current regulations, will therefore support these Inner
Ring Districts policies by expanding housing capacity in multi-dwelling zones located in the Inner
Ring Districts. The changes will expand allowances for housing types that were historically common
in the Inner Ring Districts, such as fourplexes, small apartments buildings, and courtyard
apartments, which often are not allowed under current R2 and R1 density-based regulations. Along
Inner Ring District corridors, the BHD code amendments for the new RM2 zone will allow for new
corridor apartments similar to existing multi-dwelling buildings built before World War 2, but which
have densities that exceed current allowances. These amendments will therefore allow for new
development that continues the diverse housing types that characterize the Inner Ring Districts.
Zoning Map and Zoning Code amendments in the Alphabet and King’s Hill historic districts are
intended to match development allowances to the scale of larger historic building in these districts,
which will help retain these historic districts’ characteristics. The BHD code amendments also help
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

promote the preservation of historic buildings in the Inner Ring Districts by expanding allowances
for FAR transfers from sites with historic resources and by providing greater allowances for FAR
transfers in conjunction with seismic upgrades. Amendments that allow greater flexibility for the
numbers of housing units on sites in the multi-dwelling zones will also expand options for more
people to use the Inner Ring Districts’ extensive transit, bicycle, and pedestrian networks.
Corridors
Policy 3.44. Growth and mobility. Coordinate transportation and land use strategies along corridors
to accommodate growth and mobility needs for people of all ages and abilities.
Policy 3.45. Connections. Improve corridors as multimodal connections providing transit, pedestrian,
bicycle, and motor vehicle access and that serve the freight needs of centers and neighborhood
business districts.
Policy 3.46. Design. Encourage street design that balances the important transportation functions of
corridors with their roles as the setting for commercial activity and residential living.
Policy 3.47. Green infrastructure in corridors. Enhance corridors with distinctive green infrastructure,
including landscaped stormwater facilities, extensive tree plantings, and other landscaping that both
provide environmental function and contribute to a quality pedestrian environment.
106. Finding:  Policies 3.44 through 3.47 provide direction on the desired characteristics and functions of
corridors. The BHD amendments do not change the boundary of corridors on the Urban Design
Framework. Over 80 percent of multi-dwelling zoning is located along corridors. Multi-dwelling
zones therefore play an important role in meeting policy objectives for accommodating housing
growth along corridors. The BHD amendments shift from regulating development from unit density
to regulating by building scale (FAR) creates the  flexibility to develop more units than the current
regulations, will therefore support these center policies by expanding housing capacity in multi-
dwelling zones located in centers.  The additional housing opportunities along corridors will also
allow more people to be close to transit, enhancing corridors’ roles as key places for transit and
other multi-modal connections. BHD amendments also require deeper building setbacks for multi-
dwelling buildings along streets, providing more opportunities for plantings and other green
features along corridor frontages.
Civic Corridors
Policy 3.48. Integrated land use and mobility. Enhance Civic Corridors as distinctive places that are
models of ecological urban design, with transit-supportive densities of housing and employment,
prominent street trees and other green features, and high-quality transit service and pedestrian and
bicycle facilities.
Policy 3.49. Design great places. Improve public streets and sidewalks along Civic Corridors to support
the vitality of business districts, create distinctive places, provide a safe, healthy, and attractive
pedestrian environment, and contribute to quality living environments for residents.
Policy 3.50. Mobility corridors. Improve Civic Corridors as key mobility corridors of citywide
importance that accommodate all modes of transportation within their right-of-way or on nearby
parallel routes.
Policy 3.51. Freight. Maintain freight mobility and access on Civic Corridors that are also Major or
Priority Truck Streets.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

107. Finding:  Policies 3.48 through 3.51 provide direction on the desired characteristics and functions of
civic corridors. The BHD amendments do not change the boundary of civic corridors on the Urban
Design Framework. The predominant multi-dwelling zone along Civic Corridors is RM2 (current R1).
The BHD amendments shift to regulating by building scale, instead of number of units per site area,
will allow more units on RM2-zoned properties along Civic Corridors. This, along with development
bonuses for affordable housing and other options, will allow RM2 zoning along Civic Corridors to be
fully built to a four-story scale. This will contribute to making Civic Corridors places with transit-
supportive densities of housing, increasing transit usage by allowing more people to live close to
transit. BHD code amendments for both multi-dwelling and mixed use zones allow for no side
setbacks between buildings along Civic Corridors in the Inner Pattern Area. The development
standard changes will allow for a continuous frontage of buildings along these corridors, creating
distinctly urban street edges that support their roles as key urban places well served by transit. The
BHD amendments also have the option for deeper building setbacks along corridors, providing
opportunities for plantings and other green features along corridor frontages, contributing to
better living environments for residents, a greener pedestrian environment, and reducing urban
heat impacts. Other BHD amendments allow ground-floor commercial uses in multi-dwelling zones
along Civic Corridors, further reinforcing the role of these corridors as places for commercial
services and contributing to active uses along these important corridors.
Neighborhood Corridors
Policy 3.52. Neighborhood Corridors. Enhance Neighborhood Corridors as important places that
support vibrant neighborhood business districts with quality multi-family housing, while providing
transportation connections that link neighborhoods.
108. Finding:  The BHD amendments do not change the boundary of neighborhood corridors on the
Urban Design Framework. The predominant multi-dwelling zoning along Neighborhood Corridors is
RM2 (current R1), and to a lesser extent RM1 (current R2). The shift to regulating by building scale
will allow more units on multi-dwelling zoned properties along Neighborhood Corridors. This shift,
along with development bonuses for affordable housing and other options, will expand multi-family
housing opportunities along Neighborhood Corridors. Other BHD amendments allow ground-floor
commercial uses in multi-dwelling zones along Neighborhood Corridors, further reinforcing the role
of these corridors as places for commercial services and contributing to active uses along these
important corridors.
Transit Station Areas
Policy 3.53. Transit-oriented development. Encourage transit-oriented development and transit-
supportive concentrations of housing and jobs, and multimodal connections at and adjacent to high-
capacity transit stations.
Policy 3.54. Community connections. Integrate transit stations into surrounding communities and
enhance pedestrian and bicycle facilities (including bike sharing) to provide safe and accessible
connections to key destinations beyond the station area.
Policy 3.55. Transit station area safety. Design transit areas to improve pedestrian, bicycle, and
personal safety.
Policy 3.56. Center stations. Encourage transit stations in centers to provide high density
concentrations of housing and commercial uses that maximize the ability of residents to live close to
both high-quality transit and commercial services.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy 3.57. Employment stations. Encourage concentrations of jobs and employment-focused land
uses in and around stations in employment-zoned areas.
Policy 3.58. Transit neighborhood stations. Encourage concentrations of mixed-income residential
development and supportive commercial services close to transit neighborhood stations. Transit
neighborhood stations serve mixed-use areas that are not in major centers.
Policy 3.59. Destination stations. Enhance connections between major destinations and transit
facilities and strengthen the role of these station areas as places of focused activity.
109. Finding:  Policies 3.53 through 3.59 provide direction on the desired characteristics and functions of
transit station areas. The BHD amendments do not change the boundary of civic corridors on the
Urban Design Framework. Multi-dwelling zoning located in Transit Station Areas plays an important
role in providing opportunities for transit-supportive concentrations of housing. The BHD
amendments shift from regulating development from unit density to regulating by building scale
(FAR) creates the  flexibility to develop more units than the current regulations, will therefore
support these center policies by expanding housing capacity in multi-dwelling zones near transit
centers.  Allowing more units in the multi-dwelling zones in these areas will allow more people to
benefit from living close to transit stations. Amendments that provide additional development
bonuses for projects that include affordable units will support Policy 3.58 by encouraging mixed-
income residential development. Policy direction for connections within Transit Station Areas is
supported by BHD amendments intended to facilitate new pedestrian and multi-modal connections
in such areas in the Jade District, Rosewood-Glenfair, and 122nd-Hazelwood neighborhood centers,
through requirements for sites to be large enough to accommodate new connections (as well as to
support better site design) and by allowing development allowances to be calculated prior to street
dedications to reduce barriers to including new connections as part of development.
City Greenways
Policy 3.60. Connections. Create a network of distinctive and attractive City Greenways that link
centers, parks, schools, rivers, natural areas, and other key community destinations.
Policy 3.61. Integrated system. Create an integrated City Greenways system that includes regional
trails through natural areas and along Portland’s rivers, connected to neighborhood greenways, and
heritage parkways.
Policy 3.62. Multiple benefits. Design City Greenways that provide multiple benefits that contribute to
Portland’s pedestrian, bicycle, green infrastructure, and parks and open space systems.
Policy 3.63. Design. Use design options such as distinctive street design, motor vehicle diversion,
landscaping, tree plantings, scenic views, and other appropriate design options, to create City
Greenways that extend the experience of open spaces and nature into neighborhoods, while
improving stormwater management and calming traffic.
110. Finding:  Policies 3.60 through 3.63 provide direction on the desired characteristics and functions of
city greenways. The BHD amendments do not change the city greenway designations on the Urban
Design Framework. The BHD amendments support the creation of a network of City Greenways by
enhancing pedestrian orientation by requiring front setbacks that reflect neighborhood patterns;
requiring large building facades to be divided into smaller components; requiring building entrances
oriented to streets; and limiting front garages and parking along street frontages. Also, BHD
amendments that facilitate new pedestrian and multi-modal connections as part of development
could create new opportunities for City Greenway connections.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Urban habitat corridors
Policy 3.64. Urban habitat corridors. Establish a system of connected, well-functioning, and diverse
habitat corridors that link habitats in Portland and the region, facilitate safe fish and wildlife access
and movement through and between habitat areas, enhance the quality and connectivity of existing
habitat corridors, and establish new habitat corridors in developed areas.
Policy 3.65. Habitat connection tools. Improve habitat corridors using a mix of tools including natural
resource protection, property acquisition, natural resource restoration, tree planting and landscaping
with native plants, and ecological design integrated with new development.
Policy 3.66. Connect habitat corridors. Ensure that planned connections between habitat corridors,
greenways, and trails are located and designed to support the functions of each element, and create
positive interrelationships between the elements, while also protecting habitat functions, fish, and
wildlife.
111. Finding:  Policies 3.64 through 3.66 provide direction on the desired characteristics and functions of
urban habitat corridors. The BHD amendments do not change the urban habitat corridor
designations on the Urban Design Framework. The BHD amendments support the urban habitat
corridor policies by facilitating tree preservation by allowing FAR to be transferred from sites where
large trees are being preserved. Other BHD amendments that require common outdoor areas for
large sites will provide more space for tree canopy and other green elements, as will limits on the
size of parking lots. Eastern Portland standards for deep rear setbacks are intended to keep the
centers of East Portland’s large blocks, where Douglas Fir groves are sometime located, greener
and less built up, providing more opportunities for tree preservation. This will contribute to the
continuation of East Portland’s urban forest canopy, where long-established Douglas Fir groves play
an important role.
Employment areas
Policy 3.67. Employment area geographies. Consider the land development and transportation needs
of Portland’s employment geographies when creating and amending land use plans and making
infrastructure investments.
112. Finding:  Comprehensive Plan Figure 3-7 identifies four employment area geographies – Central
City, industrial/employment, commercial, and institutional. The multi-dwelling zones are generally
located in or adjacent to the commercial area geography The BHD amendments shift from
regulating development from unit density to regulating by building scale (FAR) creates the flexibility
to develop more units than the current regulations, will therefore support these center policies by
expanding housing capacity in multi-dwelling zones near commercial areas. The BHD amendments
also allow ground-floor commercial uses in multi-dwelling zones along Civic and Neighborhood
Corridors, which run through and are a part of the commercial geography. This allowance further
reinforces the role of these corridors as places for commercial services and contributing to active
uses along these important corridors.
Policy 3.68. Regional Truck Corridors. Enhance designated streets to accommodate forecast freight
growth and support intensified industrial use in nearby freight districts. See Figure 3-7 — Employment
Areas. Designated regional truckways and priority truck streets (Transportation System Plan
classifications are shown to illustrate this network).
113. Finding:  Regional truckways and priority truck streets are major freight routes, such as the
interstate highways.  The multi-dwelling zoning is located adjacent to these corridors and typically
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

does not have direct access to these freight routes, except for segments in St. Johns and along NE
Lombard Street.  A transportation analysis was conducted (see PBOT memo dated September 6,
2019) that identified very minor levels of additional traffic on the City and ODOT identified “hot
spot” streets, including several regional truck corridors. Measures to address and mitigate for this
added traffic have been identified.
Rivers Pattern Area
Policy 3.69. Historic and multi-cultural significance. Recognize, restore, and protect the historic and
multi-cultural significance of the Willamette and Columbia Rivers, including current activities such as
subsistence fishing of legally-permitted fish species.
Policy 3.70. River transportation. Recognize and enhance the roles of the Willamette and Columbia
rivers as part of Portland’s historic, current, and future transportation infrastructure, including for
freight, commerce, commuting, and other public and private transportation functions.
Policy 3.71. Recreation. Improve conditions along and within the Willamette and Columbia rivers to
accommodate a diverse mix of recreational users and activities. Designate and invest in strategically-
located sites along the length of Portland’s riverfronts for passive or active recreation activities that
are compatible with nearby land uses, historically and culturally important sites, significant habitat
areas, restoration sites, and native fish and wildlife usage.
Policy 3.72 Industry and port facilities. Enhance the regionally significant economic infrastructure that
includes Oregon’s largest seaport and largest airport, unique multimodal freight, rail, and harbor
access; the region’s critical energy hub; and proximity to anchor manufacturing and distribution
facilities.
Policy 3.73. Habitat. Enhance the roles of the Willamette and Columbia rivers and their confluence as
an ecological hub that provides locally and regionally significant habitat for fish and wildlife and
habitat restoration opportunities.
Policy 3.74. Commercial activities. Enhance the roles of the Willamette and Columbia rivers in
supporting local and regional business and commerce, including commercial fishing, tourism,
recreation, and leisure.
Policy 3.75. River neighborhoods. Enhance the strong river orientation of residential areas that are
located along the Willamette and Columbia Rivers.
Policy 3.76. River access. Enhance and complete Portland’s system of river access points and riverside
trails, including the Willamette Greenway Trail, and strengthen active transportation connections
between neighborhoods and the rivers.
Policy 3.77. River management and coordination. Coordinate with federal, state, regional, special
districts, and other agencies to address issues of mutual interest and concern, including economic
development, recreation, water transportation, flood and floodplain management and protection,
regulatory compliance, permitting, emergency management, endangered species recovery, climate
change preparation, Portland Harbor Superfund, brownfield cleanup, and habitat restoration.
Policy 3.78 Columbia River. Enhance the role of the Columbia River for river dependent industry, fish
and wildlife habitat, subsistence and commercial fisheries, floating- and land-based neighborhoods,
recreational uses, and water transportation.
Policy 3.79 Willamette River North Reach. Enhance the role of the Willamette River North Reach for
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

river dependent industry, fish and wildlife habitat, and as an amenity for riverfront neighborhoods and
recreational users.
Policy 3.80. Willamette River Central Reach. Enhance the role of the Willamette River Central Reach
as the Central City and region’s primary riverfront destination for recreation, history and culture,
emergency response, water transportation, and as habitat for fish and wildlife.
Policy 3.81 Willamette River South Reach. Enhance the role of the Willamette River South Reach as
fish and wildlife habitat, a place to recreate, and as an amenity for riverfront neighborhoods and
others.
Policy 3.82. Willamette River Greenway. Maintain multi-objective plans and regulations to guide
development, infrastructure investments, and natural resource protection and enhancement within
and along the Willamette Greenway.
114. Finding:  Policies 3.69 through 3.82 provide direction on the desired characteristics and functions of
the Rivers Pattern Area. The multi-dwelling zones are largely located outside the Rivers Pattern
Area, which includes areas along the Willamette and Columbia Rivers, with a few exceptions. These
include areas of multi-dwelling zoning along the Willamette River near the east end of the Sellwood
Bridge and areas around the Macadam Neighborhood Center. Portions of Hayden Island on the
Columbia River also have multi-dwelling zoning. Existing rules for Willamette River Greenway and
Macadam Plan District are not affected by these amendments. Similarly, the Hayden Island Plan
District is not significantly affected.
Central City Pattern Area
Policy 3.83. Central City districts. Enhance the distinct identities of the Central City's districts.
Policy 3.84. Central City river orientation. Enhance and strengthen access and orientation to the
Willamette River in the Central City and increase river-focused activities.
Policy 3.85. Central City pedestrian system. Maintain and expand the Central City’s highly
interconnected pedestrian system.
Policy 3.86. Central City bicycle system. Expand and improve the Central City’s bicycle system.
115. Finding:  Policies 3.83 through 3.86 provide direction on the desired characteristics and functions of
the Central City Pattern Area. The BHD amendments primarily affect multi-dwelling zones outside
the Central City and do not relate to these policies. These policies are not applicable.
Inner Neighborhoods Pattern Area
Policy 3.87 Inner Neighborhoods main streets. Maintain and enhance the Streetcar Era pattern of
street-oriented buildings along Civic and Neighborhood corridors.
Policy 3.88 Inner Neighborhoods street patterns. Preserve the area’s urban fabric of compact blocks
and its highly interconnected grid of streets.
Policy 3.89 Inner Neighborhoods infill. Fill gaps in the urban fabric through infill development on
vacant and underutilized sites and in the reuse of historic buildings on adopted inventories.
Policy 3.90 Inner Neighborhoods active transportation. Use the extensive street, sidewalk, and
bikeway system and multiple connections to the Central City as a key part of Portland’s active
transportation system
Policy 3.91 Inner Neighborhoods residential areas. Continue the patterns of small, connected blocks,
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

regular lot patterns, and streets lined by planting strips and street trees in Inner Neighborhood
residential areas.
116. Finding:  Policies 3.87 through 3.91 provide direction on the desired characteristics and functions of
the Inner Neighborhoods Pattern Area. The BHD amendments support these policies by facilitating
infill development in the multi-dwelling zones that continue established patterns in the Inner
Neighborhood Pattern Area. Amendments that shift from regulating development by unit density
to regulating by building scale, with flexibility for more units, will expand allowances for compact
housing types that were historically common in the Inner Neighborhood Pattern Area, such as
fourplexes, small apartments buildings, and courtyard apartments, which often are not allowed
under current R2 and R1 density-based regulations. Along corridors in the Inner Neighborhood
Pattern Area, the BHD code amendments for the RM2 zone will allow for new corridor apartments
similar to existing multi-dwelling buildings built before World War 2, but which have densities that
exceed current allowances. These amendments will therefore allow for new development that
continues the diverse housing types that characterize the Inner Ring Districts. Zoning Map and
Zoning Code amendments in the Alphabet and King’s Hill historic districts are intended to match
development allowances to the scale of larger historic building in these districts, which will help
retain these historic districts’ characteristics while accommodating new development on
underutilized sites such as parking lots. The BHD code amendments also help promote the
preservation of historic buildings in the Inner Neighborhood Pattern Area by expanding allowances
for FAR transfers from sites with historic resources and by providing greater allowances for FAR
transfers in conjunction with seismic upgrades. BHD amendments support Policy 3.87 by requiring
buildings to be oriented to the street or to courtyards connected to streets. Policy 3.91 is supported
by amendments that limit front garages and driveways, which will help preserve the area’s pattern
of planting strips and street trees. Amendments requiring front setbacks will continue the area’s
patterns of green street edges lined by front yards and gardens.
Eastern Neighborhoods Pattern Area
Policy 3.92 Eastern Neighborhoods street, block, and lot pattern. Guide the evolving street and block
system in the Eastern Neighborhoods in ways that build on positive aspects of the area’s large blocks,
such as opportunities to continue mid-block open space patterns and create new connections through
blocks that make it easier to access community destinations.
Policy 3.93 Eastern Neighborhoods site development. Require that land be aggregated into larger
sites before land divisions and other redevelopment occurs. Require site plans which advance design
and street connectivity goals.
Policy 3.94 Eastern Neighborhoods trees and natural features. Encourage development and right-of-
way design that preserves and incorporates Douglas fir trees and groves, and that protects the area’s
streams, forests, wetlands, steep slopes, and buttes.
Policy 3.95 Eastern Neighborhoods buttes. Enhance public views of the area’s skyline of buttes and
stands of tall Douglas fir trees.
Policy 3.96 Eastern Neighborhoods corridor landscaping. Encourage landscaped building setbacks
along residential corridors on major streets.
Policy 3.97 Eastern Neighborhoods active transportation. Enhance access to centers, employment
areas, and other community destinations in Eastern Neighborhoods by ensuring that corridors have
safe and accessible pedestrian and bicycle facilities and creating additional secondary connections that
provide low-stress pedestrian and bicycle access.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

117. Finding:  Policies 3.92 through 3.97 provide direction on the desired characteristics and functions of
the Eastern Neighborhoods Pattern Area. The BHD amendments include provisions specific to East
Portland that are consistent with these policies. Amendments requiring deep rear setbacks in the
Eastern Portland Pattern Area will help keep the centers of the area’s large blocks greener and less
built up, providing opportunities for preservation of the Douglas fir trees that are sometimes
located on these large blocks. In conjunction with the Bureau of Transportation’s Connected
Centers Street Plan, the BHD amendments will help facilitate creating additional connections
through requirements for sites in specified East Portland centers to be large enough to
accommodate new connections and outdoor spaces, and by allowing development allowances to
be calculated prior to street dedications to reduce barriers to including new connections as part of
development. BHD requirements for minimum site frontages will also implement Policy 3.93 by
requiring smaller sites to be aggregated before development can occur. BHD amendments
requiring deeper front setbacks in the RM2 and RM3 zone will help implement Policy 3.97’s
directive for landscaped building setbacks, including along major streets.
Western Neighborhoods Pattern Area
Policy 3.98 Western Neighborhoods village character. Enhance the village character of the Western
Neighborhoods’ small commercial districts and increase opportunities for more people to live within
walking distance of these neighborhood anchors.
Policy 3.99 Western Neighborhoods active transportation. Provide safe and accessible pedestrian
and bicycle connections, as well as off-street trail connections, to and from residential neighborhoods.
Policy 3.100 Western Neighborhoods development. Encourage new development and infrastructure
to be designed to minimize impacts on the area’s streams, ravines, and forested slopes.
Policy 3.101 Western Neighborhoods habitat corridors. Preserve, enhance, and connect the area’s
network of habitat areas and corridors, streams, parks, and tree canopy.
Policy 3.102 Western Neighborhoods trails. Develop pedestrian-oriented connections and enhance
the Western Neighborhoods’ distinctive system of trails to increase safety, expand mobility, access to
nature, and active living opportunities in the area.
118. Finding:  Policies 3.98 through 3.102 provide direction on the desired characteristics and functions
of the Western Neighborhoods Pattern Area. The centers in the Western Neighborhoods Pattern
Area, Hillsdale, Multnomah Village, and West Portland, include multi-dwelling zoning that provide
options for compact housing close to these center’s services. BHD amendments that shift from
regulating development by unit density to regulating by building scale, with flexibility for more
units, will support these policies by expanding housing capacity in and around these centers.
Allowing more units in the multi-dwelling zones in these areas will allow more people to benefit
from living close to services. Amendments requiring large sites to include common areas, such as
courtyards, will encourage the inclusion of larger areas of green that will reflect the pattern area’s
extensive system of natural features, as will requirements for landscaped front setbacks in the RM2
and RM3 zones. BHD amendments support continuing this pattern area’s system of habitat
corridors and tree canopy by facilitating tree preservation through allowances for FAR to be
transferred from sites where large trees are being preserved. In conjunction with options for
narrower types of connections included in the Bureau of Transportation’s Connected Centers Street
Plan, the BHD amendments will help facilitate creating additional pedestrian and multi-modal
connections by allowing development allowances to be calculated prior to street dedications to
reduce barriers to including new connections as part of development.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Chapter 4: Design and Development
Goal 4.A: Context-sensitive design and development. New development is designed to respond to
and enhance the distinctive physical, historic, and cultural qualities of its location, while
accommodating growth and change.
119. Finding:  The BHD amendments include a range of provisions intended to guide development in the
multi-dwelling zones to respond the characteristics of Portland’s residential areas. This includes
Eastern Portland rear setback standards intended to keep the centers of the area’s large blocks
greener and less built up, new approaches to regulating development that will facilitate a revival of
the diverse mix of multi-dwelling housing types – such as fourplexes and courtyard apartments –
once common in inner neighborhoods, expanded requirements for outdoor spaces, and
requirements for landscaped front setbacks that will integrate higher-density development with the
characteristics of Portland’s residential neighborhoods. Limitations on street facing garages and
location of vehicle areas are also established to provide greater consistency with historic
development patterns. Amendments to development standards and the mapping of high-density
multi-dwelling zones in historic districts are calibrated to the scale of historic buildings, while also
accommodating growth on underutilized sites such as parking lots.
Goal 4.B: Historic and cultural resources. Historic and cultural resources are integral parts of an urban
environment that continue to evolve and are preserved.
120. Finding:  The BHD amendments include provisions specifically intended to promote preservation of
historic and cultural resources. These include expanded options for transferring FAR from sites
preserving historic resources, allowing additional amounts of FAR to be transferred in conjunction
with seismic upgrades to historic structures, and amendments to the Zoning Map and development
standards in the Alphabet and King’s Hill historic districts to guide development to relate to the
scale historic buildings, while continuing to accommodate growth.
Goal 4.C: Human and environmental health. Neighborhoods and development are efficiently
designed and built to enhance human and environmental health: they protect safety and livability;
support local access to healthy food; limit negative impacts on water, hydrology, and air quality;
reduce carbon emissions; encourage active and sustainable design; protect wildlife; address urban
heat islands; and integrate nature and the built environment.
121. Finding:  BHD amendments promote human and environmental health through a broad range of
provisions, including expanded requirements for outdoor spaces; requirements for large sites to
include common areas to provide residents’ with access to recreation, socialization, and
opportunities to grow food; allowances that promote green infrastructure such as ecoroofs and
stormwater planters as part of development; FAR transfer allowances in exchange for preserving
large trees, by allowing more housing options close to services and transit; and through limitations
on large surface parking lots to reduce urban heat islands.
Goal 4.D: Urban resilience. Buildings, streets, and open spaces are designed to ensure long-term
resilience and to adjust to changing demographics, climate, and economy, and withstand and recover
from natural disasters.
122. Finding:  The BHD amendments help implement this goal by allowing a broader range of housing
types that can be more responsive to changing demographics, through incentives for visitable or
accessible housing that can accommodate people of all ages and abilities, through limitations on
large parking lots to reduce urban heat islands in the context of rising temperatures, and through
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

expanding housing capacity in areas close to services where the multi-dwelling zones are mapped,
helping to direct growth away from habitat and natural hazard areas.
Context
Policy 4.1. Pattern areas. Encourage building and site designs that respect the unique built, natural,
historic, and cultural characteristics of Portland’s five pattern areas described in Chapter 3: Urban
Form.
Policy 4.2. Community identity. Encourage the development of character-giving design features that
are responsive to place and the cultures of communities.
Policy 4.3. Site and context. Encourage development that responds to and enhances the positive
qualities of site and context — the neighborhood, the block, the public realm, and natural features.
123. Finding:  The BHD amendments include a range of provisions intended to encourage development
to better respond to context, including characteristics of Portland’s pattern areas, communities,
and typical residential contexts. This includes Eastern Portland rear setback standards intended to
keep the centers of the area’s large blocks greener and less built up, new approaches to regulating
development that will facilitate a revival of the diverse mix of multi-dwelling housing types – such
as fourplexes and courtyard apartments – once common in inner neighborhoods, expanded
requirements for outdoor spaces, and requirements for landscaped front setbacks that will
integrate higher-density development with the characteristics of Portland’s residential
neighborhoods; and new incentives for preserving large trees. Limitations on street facing garages
and location of vehicle areas are also established to provide greater consistency with the
characteristics of Portland’s residential neighborhoods and to ensure that new development
enhances the public realm of streets. Amendments to development standards and the mapping of
high-density multi-dwelling zones in historic districts are calibrated to the scale of historic buildings
to better integrate new development with the characteristics of historic districts.
Policy 4.4. Natural features and green infrastructure. Integrate natural and green infrastructure such
as trees, green spaces, ecoroofs, gardens, green walls, and vegetated stormwater management
systems, into the urban environment. Encourage stormwater facilities that are designed to be a
functional and attractive element of public spaces, especially in centers and corridors.
124. Finding:  The BHD amendments help implement this policy through provisions that promote the
inclusion of green infrastructure such as ecoroof and stormwater planters as part of developments,
FAR transfer provisions to provide an incentive for preserving large trees, expanded requirements
for outdoor spaces, requirements for large sites to include common areas, and requirements in
East Portland for deep rear setbacks that will help keep the centers of the area’s large blocks
greener and less built up. Limitations on large surface parking lots and reduced minimum parking
requirements will provide more opportunities for more site area to be used for landscaping, trees,
and other green features. Requirements for landscaped front setbacks will help foster a green
street environment, while providing more space for street tree canopy and helping to reduce urban
heat island impacts. The changes encourage alternatives to conventional landscaping by allowing
ecoroofs and stormwater planters to meet up to 50 percent of required landscaping.
Policy 4.5. Pedestrian-oriented design. Enhance the pedestrian experience throughout Portland
through public and private development that creates accessible, safe, and attractive places for all
those who walk and/or use wheelchairs or other mobility devices.
125. Finding:  The BHD amendments reduce on-site parking, driveways and garages to improve the
relationship between buildings and the public realm of streets and contribute to creating
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

pedestrian-friendly street environments, while reducing conflicts between pedestrians on sidewalks
and vehicles using driveways. Allowances for greater housing density in the multi-dwelling zones
will also allow for more people to live within walking distance of services and transit. Development
bonuses for visitable or accessible housing units will help create communities where people of all
abilities can live and get around.
Policy 4.6. Street orientation. Promote building and site designs that enhance the pedestrian
experience with windows, entrances, pathways, and other features that provide connections to the
street environment.
126. Finding:  The BHD amendments help implement this policy by including requirements for street-
oriented entrances, expanding requirements for pathways that connect buildings to streets,
limiting front garages and front parking to enhance the orientation of buildings to streets and foster
a pedestrian-friendly street environment, and requirements for ground-floor windows when
commercial uses are included as part of multi-dwelling buildings along corridors.
Policy 4.7. Development and public spaces. Guide development to help create high-quality public
places and street environments while considering the role of adjacent development in framing,
shaping, and activating the public space of streets and urban parks.
127. Finding:  The BHD amendments help implement this policy by regulations that limit front parking
and garages, ensuring that buildings are oriented to streets. Allowances along Civic and
Neighborhood Corridors for ground-floor commercial uses will help activate these streets, as will
requirements for ground-floor windows. Along these same important corridors, amendments will
allow a continuous street wall of buildings in both multi-dwelling and mixed use zones, which will
foster the creation of a more urban street edge that frames and helps define the street space.
Other amendments will cultivate an engaging street environment by encouraging courtyards open
to the street, enhancing the pedestrian experience of streets.
Policy 4.8. Alleys. Encourage the continued use of alleys for parking access, while preserving
pedestrian access. Expand the number of alley-facing accessory dwelling units.
128. Finding:  The BHD amendments address this policy by requiring that multi-dwelling development on
small sites (up to 10,000 square feet), when adjacent to an existing alley, provide parking access
from the alley when off-street parking is provided. Other amendments promote the continued use
of alleys for parking access by providing more flexibility for vehicles to back out into alleys from
parking spaces.  Specifically, current requirements for parking areas with more than four spaces to
have vehicles enter an alley in a forward motion are removed because they reduce the utility of a
rear alley for larger projects.
Policy 4.9. Transitional urbanism. Encourage temporary activities and structures in places that are
transitioning to urban areas to promote job creation, entrepreneurship, active streets, and human
interaction.
129. Finding:  This policy relates to temporary commercial activities and public gathering places, rather
than residential uses that are the focus of the multi-dwelling zones. This policy is therefore not
applicable.
Health and safety
Policy 4.10. Design for active living. Encourage development and building and site design that
promotes a healthy level of physical activity in daily life.
Policy 4.11. Access to light and air. Provide for public access to light and air by managing and shaping
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

the height and mass of buildings while accommodating urban-scale development.
Policy 4.12. Privacy and solar access. Encourage building and site designs that consider privacy and
solar access for residents and neighbors while accommodating urban-scale development.
Policy 4.13. Crime-preventive design. Encourage building, site, and public infrastructure design
approaches that help prevent crime.
Policy 4.14. Fire prevention and safety. Encourage building and site design that improves fire
prevention, safety, and reduces seismic risks.
130. Finding:  Policies 4.10 through 4.714 provide direction regarding the promotion of health and safety
in development. The BHD amendments help implement these policies through a range of
provisions. Amendments promote site design supportive of physical activity by expanding
requirements for outdoor spaces, through new requirements that large sites include common areas
to provide opportunities for recreation, and expanded requirements for buildings to provide
pedestrian connections to streets and meet pedestrian connectivity requirements. BHD regulations
address access to light and air by including requirements for building setbacks, requirements for
minimum five-foot setbacks for windows adjacent to property lines when units have no other
windows, and through applying maximum heights and requiring building height to step down
adjacent to single-dwelling zoning. Requirements for deeper front setbacks are intended to limit
privacy impacts to residents of ground-level units. The requirements for outdoor spaces and
common areas will also expand access to light and air.  Limiting front garages and requiring
entrances and windows to be oriented to streets will also support passive surveillance by facilitating
“eyes on the street.” New construction and remodels will be required to meet modern building
codes to ensure fire prevention and reduce seismic risks. A BHD provision providing additional FAR
transfer allowances for historic properties in conjunction with seismic upgrades is intended to help
address the need to reduce seismic risks to historic buildings and their residents.
Residential areas
Policy 4.15. Residential area continuity and adaptability. Encourage more housing choices to
accommodate a wider diversity of family sizes, incomes, and ages, and the changing needs of
households over time. Allow adaptive reuse of existing buildings, the creation of accessory dwelling
units, and other arrangements that bring housing diversity that is compatible with the general scale
and patterns of residential areas.
131. Finding:  The BHD amendments help implement this policy by shifting from regulating development
by unit density to instead regulate primarily by building scale, with flexibility for the number and
types of units within this scale. In the RM1 zone, for example, the base scale of development is kept
to 35-feet tall covering up to half of a site, which is similar to the scale allowed in single-dwelling
zones. Within this allowed scale, a wide variety of housing types are allowed, from duplexes,
townhouses, and fourplexes, to courtyard apartments and other low-rise multi-dwelling housing
types; allowing for a wide range of housing needs to be met. This is a change from regulations in
the current R2 zone, where only two units, typically in the form of two-story townhouse-type units
or a pair of narrow detached houses, are allowed on a typical 5,000 square foot lot. Regulating by
building scale instead of unit density also supports adaptive reuse of existing buildings by allowing
flexible for the number of units within the structure. The BHD amendments foster household
diversity by providing development bonuses for affordable units, family-sized three-bedroom units
affordable to moderate-income households, and through a bonus for visitable or accessible units to
expand barrier-free housing options for people of all abilities.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy 4.16. Scale and patterns. Encourage design and development that complements the general
scale, character, and natural landscape features of neighborhoods. Consider building forms, scale,
street frontage relationships, setbacks, open space patterns, and landscaping. Allow for a range of
architectural styles and expression.
132. Finding:  The BHD amendments include a range of provisions intended to guide development to
better respond to the context of Portland’s residential neighborhoods. This includes Eastern
Portland rear setback standards intended to keep the centers of the area’s large blocks greener and
less built up, new approaches to regulating development that will facilitate a revival of the diverse
mix of multi-dwelling housing types – such as fourplexes and courtyard apartments – once common
in inner neighborhoods, expanded requirements for outdoor spaces, and requirements for
landscaped front setbacks that will integrate higher-density development with the characteristics of
residential neighborhoods; and new incentives for preserving large trees. Limitations on street
facing garages and location of vehicle areas are also established to provide greater consistency with
the characteristics of Portland’s residential neighborhoods and to ensure that new development
enhances the public realm of streets. The lowest-scale new multi-dwelling zone, RM1, includes
development standards intended to provide continuity with the characteristics of single-dwelling
neighborhoods, including a maximum height of 35 feet that is a reduction from the current R2 zone
height allowance of 40 feet (which could accommodate four stories, instead of the two- to three-
story scale that is intended for the zone and is accommodated by the new maximum height). Other
development standards that bring continuity with the characteristics of residential neighborhoods
are building coverage limits, landscaping requirements, and new allowances for small accessory
structures to be located in side and rear setbacks, allowing continuation of a common development
pattern.
Policy 4.17. Demolitions. Encourage alternatives to the demolition of sound housing, such as
rehabilitation and adaptive reuse, especially affordable housing, and when new development would
provide no additional housing opportunities beyond replacement.
133. Finding: The BHD amendments support this policy with provisions intended to promote
preservation of historic structures. These include expanded options for transferring FAR from sites
preserving historic resources and allowing additional amounts of FAR to be transferred in
conjunction with seismic upgrades to historic structures. The amendments also support this policy
by providing flexibility when units are being added within an existing structure to not have to come
all the way into conformance with minimum density requirements, as well as providing flexibility for
greater numbers of units to be added within a structure than current regulations.
Policy 4.18. Compact single-family options. Encourage development and preservation of small
resource-efficient and affordable single-family homes in all areas of the city.
134. Finding: The BHD amendments provide broad flexibility for the numbers and types of units on
multi-dwelling zone sites. Clusters of small detached houses are among the housing types allowed
by right in the multi-dwelling zones, and the elimination of maximum density requirement provides
more flexibility for the numbers of such houses allowed on a site.
Policy 4.19. Resource efficient and healthy residential design and development. Support resource
efficient and healthy residential design and development.
135. Finding: The BDS amendments support this policy by facilitating the development of compact,
multi-dwelling development, which is inherently more resource efficient than lower-density
housing types. In particular, the amendments help implement this policy by shifting from regulating
development by unit density to instead regulate primarily by building scale, with flexibility for the
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

number and types of units within this scale. Other amendments support this policy by expanding
requirements for residential outdoor space and common areas, which addresses residents’ health
by increasing opportunities for recreation, access to nature, and providing options for growing
food.
Design and development of centers and corridors
Policy 4.20. Walkable scale. Focus services and higher-density housing in the core of centers to
support a critical mass of demand for commercial services and more walkable access for customers.
Policy 4.21. Street environment. Encourage development in centers and corridors to include
amenities that create a pedestrian-oriented environment and provide places for people to sit, spend
time, and gather.
Policy 4.22. Relationship between building height and street size. Encourage development in centers
and corridors that is responsive to street space width, thus allowing taller buildings on wider streets.
Policy 4.23. Design for pedestrian and bicycle access. Provide accessible sidewalks, high-quality
bicycle access, and frequent street connections and crossings in centers and corridors.
Policy 4.24. Drive-through facilities. Prohibit drive through facilities in the Central City, and limit new
development of new ones in the Inner Ring Districts and centers to support a pedestrian-oriented
environment.
Policy 4.25. Residential uses on busy streets. Improve the livability of places and streets with high
motor vehicle volumes. Encourage landscaped front setbacks, street trees, and other design
approaches to buffer residents from street traffic.
Policy 4.26. Active gathering places. Locate public squares, plazas, and other gathering places in
centers and corridors to provide places for community activity and social connections. Encourage
location of businesses, services, and arts adjacent to these spaces that relate to and promote the use
of the space.
Policy 4.27. Protect defining features. Protect and enhance defining places and features of centers
and corridors, including landmarks, natural features, and historic and cultural resources.
Policy 4.28. Historic buildings in centers and corridors. Protect and encourage the restoration and
improvement of historic resources in centers and corridors.
Policy 4.29. Public art. Encourage new development and public places to include design elements and
public art that contribute to the distinct identities of centers and corridors, and that highlight the
history and diverse cultures of neighborhoods.
136. Finding:  Policies 4.20 through 4.29 provide direction regarding design and development in centers
and corridors. The majority of these policies relate to the mixed-use cores of centers and corridors,
which are intended to serve as hubs for services and community activity. Most of these policies do
not apply directly to the multi-dwelling zones, although these zones play an important role in
supporting the role of centers as places with concentrations of services and housing. The majority
of multi-dwelling zoning (59 percent) is located in or within a quarter mile of centers. BHD
amendments that shift from regulating development from unit density to regulating by building
scale, with flexibility for more units, will help support  policies by expanding housing capacity in
multi-dwelling zones located in centers. Allowing more units in the multi-dwelling zones will allow
for additional population to support commercial services in centers. Policy 4.23 is support by BHD
amendments intended to facilitate new street and pedestrian connections where they are needed,
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

such as through requirements for sites in Eastern Portland centers to be large enough to
accommodate street connections (as well as to support better site design) and by allowing
development allowances to be calculated prior to street dedications to reduce barriers to including
new connections as part of development. Amendments to the Zoning Map and developments
standards applicable to the Alphabet Historic District, located in the Northwest District Town
Center, are intended to protect historic resources while guiding new development to relate to the
scale of historic buildings. Other amendments are intended to encourage the preservation of
historic resources by expanding allowances for transfers of FAR from sites with historic resources
and through related FAR transfer incentives linked to seismic upgrades.
Transitions
Policy 4.30. Scale transitions. Create transitions in building scale in locations where higher-density
and higher-intensity development is adjacent to smaller-scale single-dwelling zoning. Ensure that new
high-density and large-scale infill development adjacent to single dwelling zones incorporates design
elements that soften transitions in scale and limit light and privacy impacts on adjacent residents.
Policy 4.31. Land use transitions. Improve the interface between non-residential uses and residential
uses in areas where commercial or employment uses are adjacent to residentially-zoned land.
Policy 4.32. Industrial edge. Protect non-industrially zoned parcels from the adverse impacts of
facilities and uses on industrially zoned parcels using a variety of tools, including but not limited to
vegetation, physical separation, land acquisition, and insulation to establish buffers between industrial
sanctuaries and adjacent residential or mixed-use areas to protect both the viability of long-term
industrial operations and the livability of adjacent areas.
137. Finding:  Policies 4.30 through 4.32 provide direction regarding transitions between different types
of land uses. The BHD amendments address these policies in a number of ways. Amendments will
require large buildings in multi-dwelling zones to step-down in height when adjacent to single-
dwelling zoning to provide a scale transition. Zones that are often located in areas that provide a
transition between the mixed-use cores of centers and single-dwelling areas, such as the RM1 and
RM2 zones, included requirements for design features that will help aid in providing a transition to
the characteristics of single-dwelling residential areas, such as requirements for landscaped front
setbacks, lower-scale building heights, and limitation on the size of facades. New allowances for
limited amounts of ground-floor commercial uses in multi-dwelling zones along major corridors
limit these uses to corridor frontages, and require screening for outdoor seating located adjacent to
properties with residential zoning. Requirements for building setbacks and landscaping in the multi-
dwelling zones will allow for screening vegetation when adjacent to industrial areas.
Off-site impacts
Policy 4.33. Off-site impacts. Limit and mitigate public health impacts, such as odor, noise, glare, light
pollution, air pollutants, and vibration that public facilities, land uses, or development may have on
adjacent residential or institutional uses, and on significant fish and wildlife habitat areas. Pay
attention to limiting and mitigating impacts to under-served and under-represented communities.
138. Finding:  The 2035 Comprehensive Plan defines the verb “limit” to mean to minimize or reduce
something or the effects of something relative to the current situation or to a potential future
situation. The verb “mitigate”, which is not defined in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, means to
make less severe. The City Council interprets this policy to apply to non-residential uses, such as
those allowed in commercial and employment zones, that can have negative public health impacts
on adjacent residential and institutional uses. This policy is primarily implemented through the
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

requirements of Zoning Code Chapter 33.262, which is designed to protect uses from off-site
impacts associated with nonresidential uses and by requirements for the Commercial/Mixed Use
zones in Chapter 33.130 that require landscaped setbacks and screening adjacent to residential
zones.  As an added benefit, the BHD amendments include requirements for front building setbacks
along street frontages that provide opportunities for trees and landscaping that help limit impacts
when adjacent to non-residential uses. New allowances for limited amounts of ground-floor
commercial uses in multi-dwelling zones along major corridors limit these uses to corridor
frontages, and require screening for outdoor seating located adjacent to properties with residential
zoning.
Testimony by Tamara DeRidder raised concerns that the BHD amendments fail to address air
quality and other health related impacts. Specifically, the concern is air pollution caused by cars and
trucks and that most of the multi-dwelling zoning is near streets with heavier traffic volumes and/or
designated as freight routes, making the residents of multi-dwelling housing more susceptible to
negative health impacts. The proposed solution is to require enhanced air quality filters in multi-
dwelling structures. The City Council shares the concern about air quality impacts, but interprets
this policy to apply to regulating nonresidential uses to limit and mitigate negative impacts, rather
than regulating residential uses to reduce off-site impacts. Further, the City Council finds that the
proposed remedy, enhanced air quality filters, is beyond the scope of this project. As noted in the
testimony, enhanced air quality filters is a State Building Code issue, and not one that regulated
through the Zoning Code. Therefore, it is not appropriate to include those types of requirements in
the Zoning Code.
Policy 4.34. Auto-oriented facilities, uses, and exterior displays. Minimize the adverse impacts of
highways, auto-oriented uses, vehicle areas, drive-through areas, signage, and exterior display and
storage areas on adjacent residential uses.
139. Finding:  The City Council interprets this policy to apply to non-residential auto-oriented uses and
associated uses that can have negative impacts on adjacent residential uses. The BHD amendments
do not change any of the development standards that regulate these types of auto-oriented uses,
therefore this policy does not apply.
Policy 4.35. Noise impacts. Encourage building and landscape design and land use patterns that limit
and/or mitigate negative noise impacts to building users and residents, particularly in areas near
freeways, regional truckways, major city traffic streets, and other sources of noise.
Policy 4.36. Air quality impacts. Encourage building and landscape design and land use patterns that
limit and/or mitigate negative air quality impacts to building users and residents, particularly in areas
near freeways, regional truckways, high traffic streets, and other sources of air pollution.
140. Finding:  Policies 4.35 and 4.36 address a similar issue and situation – noise and air quality impacts
on uses located near freeways, truckways and major traffic streets. The verb “encourage”, which is
defined in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, means to promote or foster using some combination of
voluntary approaches, regulations, or incentives. The BHD amendments include requirements for
front building setbacks along street frontages that provide opportunities for trees and landscaping
that help limit noise and air quality impacts when adjacent to freeways, truckways and major traffic
streets. New allowances for limited amounts of ground-floor commercial uses in multi-dwelling
zones along major corridors limit these uses to corridor frontages, and require screening for
outdoor seating located adjacent to properties with residential zoning.
The policy requires a consideration of land use patterns to limit noise and air quality impacts. As
part of the adoption of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, the City Council considered the existing land
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

use pattern including multi-dwelling housing near freeways, truckways and major traffic streets.
The City Council stands by that decision to not make major changes to the land use patterns
because the land use pattern reflects existing development and providing increased housing
options near transit and other needed shops and services reduces reliance on automobiles and is
supportive of an active healthy lifestyle that can outweigh the negative noise and air quality
impacts.
Testimony by Tamara DeRidder raised concerns that the BHD amendments fail to address noise, air
quality and other health related impacts. Specifically, the concern is air pollution caused by cars and
trucks and that most of the multi-dwelling zoning is near streets with heavier traffic volumes and/or
designated as freight routes, making the residents of multi-dwelling housing more susceptible to
negative health impacts. The proposed solution is to require enhanced air quality filters in multi-
dwelling structures. The City Council shares the concern about noise and air quality impacts, but
finds that the proposed remedy, enhanced air quality filters, is beyond the scope of this project. As
noted in the testimony, enhanced air quality filters is a State Building Code issue, and not one that
regulated through the Zoning Code. Therefore, it is not appropriate to include those types of
requirements in the Zoning Code.
Policy 4.37. Diesel emissions. Encourage best practices to reduce diesel emissions and related impacts
when considering land use and public facilities that will increase truck or train traffic.
141. Finding:  The verb “encourage”, which is defined in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, means to
promote or foster using some combination of voluntary approaches, regulations, or incentives. The
City Council interprets this policy to apply to non-residential uses that will increase truck and train
traffic that can have negative impacts on adjacent residential uses. The BHD amendments do not
change any of the development standards that regulate these types of nonresidential uses,
therefore this policy does not apply.
Further, the BHD amendments include requirements for increased front building setbacks along
street frontages that provide opportunities for trees and landscaping that help limit noise and air
quality impacts when adjacent to adjacent to freeways, truckways and rail lines.
Testimony by Tamara DeRidder raised concerns that the BHD amendments fail to address noise, air
quality and other health related impacts. Specifically, the concern is air pollution is caused by cars
and trucks (and trains) and that most of the multi-dwelling zoning is near streets with heavier traffic
volumes and/or designated as freight routes, making the residents of multi-dwelling housing more
susceptible to negative health impacts. The proposed solution is to require enhanced air quality
filters in multi-dwelling structures. The City Council shares the concern about noise and air quality
impacts, but finds that the proposed remedy, enhanced air quality filters, is beyond the scope of
this project. As noted in the testimony, enhanced air quality filters is a State Building Code issue,
and not one that regulated through the Zoning Code. Therefore, it is not appropriate to include
those types of requirements in the Zoning Code.
Policy 4.38. Light pollution. Encourage lighting design and practices that reduce the negative impacts
of light pollution, including sky glow, glare, energy waste, impacts to public health and safety,
disruption of ecosystems, and hazards to wildlife.
142. Finding:  The verb “encourage”, which is defined in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, means to
promote or foster using some combination of voluntary approaches, regulations, or incentives. This
policy is primarily implemented through the requirements of Zoning Code Chapter 33.262, which
includes standards to protect uses from glare. As an added benefit, the BHD amendments include
requirements for increased building setbacks along street frontages that provide opportunities for
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

trees and landscaping that help limit light pollution impacts.
Policy 4.39. Airport noise. Partner with the Port of Portland to require compatible land use
designations and development within the noise-affected area of Portland International Airport, while
providing disclosure of the level of aircraft noise and mitigating the potential impact of noise within
the affected area.
143. Finding:  The City Council interprets this policy to provide direction on coordinating with the Port of
Portland when planning for changes to land use designations within the noise-affected area of
Portland International Airport. The BHD amendments do not make changes to where multi-dwelling
zoning land use designations are mapped within the noise-affected area of Portland International
Airport. This policy does not apply.
Policy 4.40. Telecommunication facility impacts. Mitigate the visual impact of telecommunications
and broadcast facilities near residentially-zoned areas through physical design solutions.
144. Finding:  The BHD amendments do not affect existing regulations for telecommunication or radio
frequency transmission facilities.
Scenic resources
Policy 4.41. Scenic resources. Enhance and celebrate Portland’s scenic resources to reinforce local
identity, histories, and cultures and contribute toward way-finding throughout the city. Consider views
of mountains, hills, buttes, rivers, streams, wetlands, parks, bridges, the Central City skyline, buildings,
roads, art, landmarks, or other elements valued for their aesthetic appearance or symbolism.
Policy 4.42. Scenic resource protection. Protect and manage designated significant scenic resources
by maintaining scenic resource inventories, protection plans, regulations, and other tools.
Policy 4.43. Vegetation management. Maintain regulations and other tools for managing vegetation
in a manner that preserves or enhances designated significant scenic resources.
Policy 4.44. Building placement, height, and massing. Maintain regulations and other tools related to
building placement, height, and massing to preserve designated significant scenic resources.
Policy 4.45. Future development. Encourage new public and private development to create new
public viewpoints providing views of Portland’s rivers, bridges, surrounding mountains, hills and
buttes, the Central City skyline, and other landmark features.
145. Finding:  Policies 4.30 through 4.32 provide direction regarding Portland’s designated scenic
resources. The BHD amendments do not affect management of designated scenic resources.
Amendments do not change existing height limits in most cases and do not impact designated
scenic resources. The limited instances where substantially greater building height is provided in
the RM4 zone (up to 100 feet) are in locations that will not impact designated scenic resources or
views.
Historic and cultural resources
Policy 4.46. Historic and cultural resource protection. Protect and encourage the restoration of
historic buildings, places, and districts that contribute to the distinctive character and history of
Portland’s evolving urban environment.
146. Finding:  This policy calls for protecting and encouraging the restoration of historic resources that
contribute to the “distinctive character and history of Portland’s evolving urban environment.” City
Council interprets “distinctive character” to refer to the physical environment of Portland, of which
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

historic resources such as buildings and districts are distinctive components, while their
contribution to “history” refers to the role of historic resources as being more than physical objects,
but reminders of the city’s past, including its social and cultural legacies. This policy’s reference to
“Portland’s evolving urban environment” places historic resources in the context of being part of a
city that continues to grow and change. City Council interprets this to mean that this and other
historic and cultural resource policies are part of a balancing act of protecting distinctive historic
and cultural resources, while continuing to accommodate a changing urban environment that
meets new needs and uses for buildings.
“Protect” is defined in the Comprehensive Plan as “to defend or guard against loss, injury, or
destructions,” which can be accomplished through a variety of regulatory and non-regulatory
approaches. This component of this policy is supported by BHD amendments that limit the use of
development bonuses or FAR transfers from being used on sites where a historic building has been
demolished. This demolition limitation is especially oriented to discouraging demolitions of locally-
designated historic resources, as it prevents these allowances from being used on sites where there
have been demolitions of historic resources in Conservation Districts or locally-designated historic
landmarks, for which there are currently no demolition review procedures and are thus more
vulnerable to redevelopment pressures.
“Encourage” is defined in the Comprehensive Plan as “promote or foster using some combination
of voluntary approaches, regulations, or incentives.” The BHD amendments support this
component of this policy by promoting the preservation of historic resources through amendments
that expand options for transferring FAR from sites preserving historic resources and that allow
additional amounts of FAR to be transferred in conjunction with seismic upgrades to historic
structures. These FAR transfer allowances help the economic viability of historic preservation by
providing an additional means to gain value for the preservation of historic buildings.
The BHD map amendments to the historic Anna Mann House at 1021 NE 33rd Avenue also support
the historic preservation objective of this policy. Changing the zoning of this property to RM1
(Multi-Dwelling – Neighborhood Comprehensive Plan Map designation) from current R5 zoning, will
provide flexibility for expansions of the multi-dwelling uses of this historic property (listed on the
National Register of Historic Places) to be more in keeping with the original historic use and
character of this property as a large multi-unit residence and will help accommodate its
preservation though adaptive reuse of the historic structure. The BHD map amendments to rezone
the rear portion of a property at 5631 SE Belmont Street from R5 to RM1 (Multi-Dwelling –
Neighborhood Comprehensive Plan Map designation) will also support the preservation and
adaptive reuse of this historic structure.  This zoning line shift will remove a split zone situation in
which the zoning line runs through the 1903 house, which currently divides the structure between
the multi-dwelling R2 and single-dwelling R5 zones and prevents adaptive reuse options that are
available in multi-dwelling zones, but not single-dwelling zones. This zoning line shift will support
the viability of the historic preservation and adaptive reuse of this structure by allowing flexibility
for commercial uses of the structure that the split zoning otherwise prevented.
Policy 4.47. State and federal historic resource support. Advocate for state and federal policies,
programs, and legislation that would enable stronger historic resource designations, protections, and
rehabilitation programs.
147. Finding:  The BHD amendments do not affect the City’s advocacy for state and federal policies,
programs or legislation. This policy does not apply.

Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy 4.48. Continuity with established patterns. Encourage development that fills in vacant and
underutilized gaps within the established urban fabric, while preserving and complementing historic
resources.
148. Finding:  “Encourage” is defined in the Comprehensive Plan as “promote or foster using some
combination of voluntary approaches, regulations, or incentives.” This policy refers to the
“established urban fabric,” which was documented in the Portland Plan Urban Form Background
Report as predominant urban development patterns, such storefront buildings located side-by-side
along commercial main streets in the Inner Neighborhood Pattern Area; while vacant land and
parking lots represent “gaps” in this urban fabric. City Council interprets this policy to call for a
balancing act of continuing to accommodate development, including within historic districts, while
at the same time preserving historic resources and encouraging new development to be designed
to complement the characteristics of nearby historic resources. The BHD amendments support
Policy 4.48 by fostering compact infill development that can fill in gaps in the established urban
fabric, such as by reducing requirements for setbacks and off-street parking, as well as providing
flexibility for the numbers of units within the defined building scale.
This policy also calls for encouraging development that complements historic resources, which is
supported by BHD map and zoning code amendments that change the allowed scale of
development to be similar to the scale of larger historic buildings in the Alphabet and King’s Hill
historic districts (which was informed by an analysis of historic buildings in these areas). The finding
to Policy 4.49 indicates how the BHD map amendments in these historic districts are intended to
help guide new development to complement the historic context of these districts by being similar
in scale to historic buildings in these districts. The BHD amendments only regulate the allowed scale
and basic characteristics of development. Other regulatory tools, particularly Historic Resource
Review, address the design details of development in historic districts to ensure they are
compatible with their specific context.
Policy 4.49. Resolution of conflicts. Adopt and periodically update design guidelines for unique
historic districts. Refine base zoning in historic districts to consider the character of the historic
resources in the district.
149. Finding:  The first part of Policy 4.49 provides direction on adopting and updating design
guidelines for historic districts, which are not part of the scope of the BHD project. The City
creates and updates such guidelines through projects with a specific focus on historic
district guidelines. Policy 4.49 also calls for refining base zoning in historic districts to consider the
character of historic resources, which is supported by BHD amendments to the Zoning Map and
development standards in the Alphabet and King’s Hill historic districts. These map and
development standard amendments change the allowed scale of development to be similar to the
scale of larger historic buildings in these historic districts. The BHD amendments for these historic
districts focus on base zone allowances for building scale, not more detailed aspects of design, as
Historic Resource Review is required for new development to ensure that the design details of new
development is compatible with the characteristics of historic districts.
In the portion of the Alphabet Historic District north of NW Glisan Street and east of NW 21st
Avenue, which currently has RH zoning with a 4:1 base FAR, City Council decided to assign the RM3
zone (with a 2:1 base FAR and 3:1 bonus FAR) to correspond to the scale of historic buildings in this
area, where 90 percent of the historic properties in the RH zone in this area have existing FARs of
2:1 FAR or less, with smaller numbers of historic buildings with FARs up to around an FAR of 3:1
(this is documented in a map [Map 2: Existing Building Floor Area Ratios] that is included in material
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

from the Planning and Sustainability Commission work session on April 9, 2019). In the portion of
the Alphabet Historic District generally south of NW Glisan Street between NW 21st and NW 23rd
avenues that currently has RH zoning with a 2:1 base FAR, City Council decided to assign the RM4
zone (with a 3:1 base FAR and a 4.5:1 bonus FAR in historic districts) to correspond to the larger
scale of historic buildings in this area, which has a concentration of historic buildings with FARs
ranging from more than 2:1 to around 4:1. The FAR map analysis found that larger historic buildings
in the current RH zone are clustered in areas of the Alphabet Historic District south of NW Glisan
Street, with smaller buildings more predominant in the RH zone north of this street. City Council
decided to assign the larger scale RM4 zone and smaller scale RM3 zone to correspond to these
historic development patterns. The assignment of RM4 and RM3 zones also provides other
development standards that complement the characteristics of the areas where they are being
applied. The RM3 zone requires buildings to have small front setbacks or courtyards, which is
consistent with the characteristics of the majority of the historic district north of NW Glisan Street,
which includes a mix of small apartment buildings and houses, typically with small landscaped front
setbacks or courtyards. The RM4 zone allows for more intensely urban development with little or
no front setbacks, which corresponds to the characteristics of the larger buildings in the historic
district south of NW Glisan Street. These characteristics are documented in project material that
mapped building footprints and site configurations in the historic district.
For properties at the southern edge of the King’s Hill Historic District, which currently have RH
zoning with a 4:1 base FAR, City Council decided to assign the RM3 zone (with a 2:1 base FAR) to
correspond to the scale of historic buildings on these properties, all of which have existing FARs of
less than a 2:1 FAR (this is documented in a map [Map 2: Existing Building Floor Area Ratios] that is
included in material from the Planning and Sustainability Commission work session on April 9,
2019). Applying the RM3 zone in this area also provides development standards requiring
landscaped front setbacks that is consistent with the characteristics of this part of the historic
district, which consists primarily of houses or small apartment buildings with landscaped front
setbacks. In other portions of the King’s Hill Historic District, where there is  a diverse range of
historic buildings with differing sizes and characteristics, City Council decided to apply the RM4
zone (with a 3:1 base FAR and a 4.5:1 bonus FAR in historic districts) to correspond the scale of
larger historic building in the historic district, which have FARs that range from 3:1 to 4.5:1.
BHD amendments are also consistent with this policy by setting base and bonus FARs in the RM4
zone in historic and conservation districts at 3:1 and 4.5:1, respectively, instead of the base and
bonus FARs of 4:1 and 6:1 that will apply in the RM4 zone outside these districts. These historic
district base and bonus FARs will allow new development similar to the scale of larger historic
building in the historic districts proposed for the RM4 zone (primarily the Alphabet and King’s Hill
historic districts).  The bonus FAR of 4.5:1, achievable through the inclusionary housing bonus that
is mandatory for buildings with 20 or more units, will allow development that is a little larger than
the base 4:1 FAR that currently applies in the larger-scale current RH zone.
Policy 4.50. Demolition. Protect historic resources from demolition. Provide opportunities for public
comment, and encourage pursuit of alternatives to demolition or other actions that mitigate for the
loss.
150. Finding:  “Protect” is defined in the Comprehensive Plan as “to defend or guard against loss, injury,
or destructions,” which can be accomplished through a variety of regulatory and non-regulatory
approaches.  The BHD amendments support this policy by limiting the use of development bonuses
or FAR transfers from being used on sites where a historic building has been demolished.  This
demolition limitation is especially oriented to discouraging demolitions of locally-designated
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

historic resources, as it prevents these allowances from being used on sites where there have been
demolitions of historic resources in Conservation Districts or locally-designated historic landmarks,
for which there are currently no demolition review procedures and are thus more vulnerable to
redevelopment pressures.
Policy 4.51. City-owned historic resources. Maintain City-owned historic resources with necessary
upkeep and repair.
151. Finding:  The BHD amendments do not affect maintenance of City-owned historic resources. This
policy does not apply.
Policy 4.52. Historic Resources Inventory. Maintain and periodically update Portland’s Historic
Resources Inventory to inform historic and cultural resource preservation strategies.
152. Finding:  The BHD amendments do not affect the maintenance or updating of Portland’s Historic
Resources Inventory. This policy does not apply.
Policy 4.53. Preservation equity. Expand historic preservation inventories, regulations, and programs
to encourage historic preservation in areas and in communities that have not benefited from past
historic preservation efforts, especially in areas with high concentrations of under-served and/or
under-represented people.
Policy 4.54. Cultural diversity. Work with Portland’s diverse communities to identify and preserve
places of historic and cultural significance.
Policy 4.55. Cultural and social significance. Encourage awareness and appreciation of cultural
diversity and the social significance of historic places and their roles in enhancing community identity
and sense of place.
153. Finding:  Policies 4.53, 4.54 and 4.55 address implementation approaches related to expanding
historic preservation efforts involving diverse communities and areas. Because the BHD
amendments do not affect such efforts, this policy does not apply.
Policy 4.56. Community structures. Encourage the adaptive reuse of historic community structures,
such as former schools, meeting halls, and places of worship, for arts, cultural, and community uses
that continue their role as anchors for community and culture.
154. Finding:  “Encourage” is defined in the Comprehensive Plan as “promote or foster using some
combination of voluntary approaches, regulations, or incentives.”  The BHD amendments support
this policy by promoting or facilitating the preservation of historic resources, including community
structures, through amendments that expand options for transferring FAR from sites preserving
historic resources and that allow additional amounts of FAR to be transferred in conjunction with
seismic upgrades to historic structures.  These FAR transfer allowances help the economic viability
of preserving community structures by providing an additional means to gain value for the
preservation of historic buildings.  The viability of FAR transfers from sites preserving historic
community structures is also supported and promoted by amendments that allow FAR to be
transferred between sites in the multi-dwelling and mixed-use zones citywide, which increases
opportunities for finding sites to receive these FAR transfers.
Policy 4.57. Economic viability. Provide options for financial and regulatory incentives to allow for the
productive, reasonable, and adaptive reuse of historic resources.
155. Finding: The BHD amendments support this policy by facilitating FAR transfers from sites in
exchange for the preservation of historic resources, which can help the economic viability of
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

historic preservation by providing an additional means to gain value for the preservation of historic
buildings. The amendments expand FAR transfer opportunities for sites preserving historic
resources by allowing additional amounts of FAR to be transferred in conjunction with seismic
upgrades to historic structures, which can help defray the costs of seismic upgrades. The viability of
FAR transfers from sites preserving historic structures is also supported by amendments that allow
FAR to be transferred between sites in the multi-dwelling and mixed-use zones citywide, which
increases opportunities for finding sites to receive these FAR transfers.
Policy 4.58. Archaeological resources. Protect and preserve archaeological resources, especially those
sites and objects associated with Native American cultures. Work in partnership with Sovereign tribes,
Native American communities, and the state to protect against disturbance to Native American
archaeological resources.
156. Finding:  The BHD amendments do not affect archaeological resources or the City’s work
with partners on protecting against disturbances to Native American archaeological
resources. This policy does not apply .
Public art
Policy 4.59. Public art and development. Create incentives for public art as part of public and private
development projects.
157. Finding:  This policy is not applicable, as the BHD code amendments do not address public art
incentives.
Resource-efficient design and development
Policy 4.60. Rehabilitation and adaptive reuse. Encourage rehabilitation and adaptive reuse of
buildings, especially those of historic or cultural significance, to conserve natural resources, reduce
waste, and demonstrate stewardship of the built environment.
Policy 4.61. Compact housing. Promote the development of compact, space- and energy-efficient
housing types that minimize use of resources such as smaller detached homes or accessory dwellings
and attached homes.
Policy 4.62. Seismic and energy retrofits. Promote seismic and energy-efficiency retrofits of historic
buildings and other existing structures to reduce carbon emissions, save money, and improve public
safety.
Policy 4.63. Life cycle efficiency. Encourage use of technologies, techniques, and materials in building
design, construction, and removal that result in the least environmental impact over the life cycle of
the structure.
Policy 4.64. Deconstruction. Encourage salvage and reuse of building elements when demolition is
necessary or appropriate.
Policy 4.65. Materials and practices. Encourage use of natural, resource-efficient, recycled, recycled
content, and non-toxic building materials and energy-efficient building practices.
Policy 4.66. Water use efficiency. Encourage site and building designs that use water efficiently and
manage stormwater as a resource.
Policy 4.67. Optimizing benefits. Provide mechanisms to evaluate and optimize the range of benefits
from solar and renewable resources, tree canopy, ecoroofs, and building design.
Policy 4.68. Energy efficiency. Encourage and promote energy efficiency significantly beyond the
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Statewide Building Code and the use of solar and other renewable resources in individual buildings
and at a district scale.
Policy 4.69. Reduce carbon emissions. Encourage a development pattern that minimizes carbon
emissions from building and transportation energy use.
Policy 4.70. District energy systems. Encourage and remove barriers to the development and
expansion of low-carbon heating and cooling systems that serve multiple buildings or a broader
district.
Policy 4.71. Ecodistricts. Encourage ecodistricts, where multiple partners work together to achieve
sustainability and resource efficiency goals at a district scale.
Policy 4.72. Energy-producing development. Encourage and promote development that uses
renewable resources, such as solar, wind, and water to generate power on-site and to contribute to
the energy grid.
158. Finding:  Policies 4.60 through 4.72 provide direction regarding resource-efficient design and
development. The BHD amendments are consistent with these policies and support several of the
specific policies. Amendments support Policy 4.60 by encouraging preservation of historic buildings
through expanded options for transferring FAR from sites preserving historic resources and
allowing additional amounts of FAR to be transferred in conjunction with seismic upgrades to
historic structures. The amendments also support adaptive reuse by providing flexibility in adding
units to existing structures and through an FAR transfer allowance linked to preservation of existing
affordable housing. The amendments support Policy 4.61 by facilitating the development of
compact, multi-dwelling development, which is more resource efficient than lower-density housing
types. In particular, the amendments help implement this policy by shifting from regulating
development by unit density to instead regulate primarily by building scale, with flexibility for the
number and types of units within this scale. These amendments’ flexible approach to density and
housing types also allow a broad range of options for clusters of small detached homes, accessory
dwelling units, and attached homes. Amendments support Policy 4.62 by allowing for an additional
amount of FAR to be transferred from sites in conjunction with seismic upgrades to historic
buildings, helping to defray the costs of such upgrades. Amendments support Policy 4.66 by
allowing a broader range of green features, such as stormwater planters, to contribute to meeting
landscaping requirements and by expanding requirements for outdoor spaces, which could
facilitate site design that provides space for managing stormwater as a resource. Amendments
support Policy 4.69 by allowing more housing units on multi-dwelling zoned sites, which will
facilitate energy-efficient compact development and allow more people to live within walking
distance of services and transit, given that over 80 percent of multi-dwelling zoning is located
within a quarter mile of transit or commercial areas. The other policies in this section concern more
technical or programmatic implementation approaches that are not applicable to the BHD Zoning
Code amendments.
Designing with nature
Policy 4.73. Design with nature. Encourage design and site development practices that enhance, and
avoid the degradation of, watershed health and ecosystem services and that incorporate trees and
vegetation.
Policy 4.74. Flexible development options. Encouraging flexibility in the division of land, the siting and
design of buildings, and other improvements to reduce the impact of development on
environmentally-sensitive areas and to retain healthy native and beneficial vegetation and trees.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy 4.75. Low-impact development and best practices. Encourage use of low-impact development,
habitat-friendly development, bird-friendly design, and green infrastructure.
Policy 4.76. Impervious surfaces. Limit use of and strive to reduce impervious surfaces and associated
impacts on hydrologic function, air and water quality, habitat connectivity, tree canopy, and urban
heat island effects.
Policy 4.77. Hazards to wildlife. Encourage building, lighting, site, and infrastructure design and
practices that provide safe fish and wildlife passage, and reduce or mitigate hazards to birds, bats, and
other wildlife.
Policy 4.78. Access to nature. Promote equitable, safe, and well-designed physical and visual access to
nature for all Portlanders, while also maintaining the functions and values of significant natural
resources, fish, and wildlife. Provide access to major natural features, including:
 Water bodies such as the Willamette and Columbia rivers, Smith and Bybee Lakes, creeks,
streams, and sloughs.
 Major topographic features such as the West Hills, Mt. Tabor, and the East Buttes.
 Natural areas such as Forest Park and Oaks Bottom.
159. Finding. Policies 4.73 through 4.78 provide direction regarding the interface between development
and natural features and functions. The BHD amendments address these designing with nature
policies in a variety of ways. Amendments expand requirements for outdoor spaces and add
requirements for large sites to include common areas, providing more space for trees and other
green elements. Other amendments provide incentives for preserving large trees by allowing
development rights to be transferred to other sites in exchange for tree preservation. While the
amendments allow more units on multi-dwelling sites, they retain current requirements for the
percentage of sites that must be landscaped and associated Title 11 requirements for tree
plantings. Eastern Portland requirements for deep rear setbacks will facilitate keeping the centers
of East Portland’s large blocks, which are sometimes the location of Douglas fir groves, greener and
less built up. These regulations provide flexibility in the locations of outdoor spaces and buildings,
allowing site design responsive to the location of trees and native vegetation. New requirements
for common areas and Eastern Portland mid-block open areas provide opportunities for larger
green spaces that can better accommodate trees and habitat. Amendments add new limitations on
the size of surface parking lots and reduce minimum parking requirements, which will help limit
urban heat islands, allow for less impervious surface, and provide more opportunities for green
spaces on multi-dwelling sites. Amendments also promote green infrastructure such as ecoroofs
and stormwater planters as part of development. Amendments allowing for more efficient use of
multi-dwelling zoned land also help implement these policies, as the location of land with multi-
dwelling zoning is almost entirely located outside of sensitive environmental areas, with 97 percent
of multi-dwelling zoning located outside environmental zones (c and p overlay zones).
Hazard-resilient design
Policy 4.79. Natural hazards and climate change risks and impacts. Limit development in or near
areas prone to natural hazards, using the most current hazard and climate change-related information
and maps.
Policy 4.80. Geological hazards. Evaluate slope and soil characteristics, including liquefaction
potential, landslide hazards, and other geologic hazards.
Policy 4.81. Disaster-resilient development. Encourage development and site-management
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

approaches that reduce the risks and impacts of natural disasters or other major disturbances and
that improve the ability of people, wildlife, natural systems, and property to withstand and recover
from such events.
Policy 4.82. Portland Harbor facilities. Reduce natural hazard risks to critical public and private energy
and transportation facilities in the Portland Harbor.
Policy 4.83. Urban heat islands. Encourage development, building, landscaping, and infrastructure
design that reduce urban heat island effects.
Policy 4.84. Planning and disaster recovery. Facilitate effective disaster recovery by providing
recommended updates to land use designations and development codes, in preparation for natural
disasters.
160. Finding: Policies 4.79 through 4.84 provide direction regarding the interface of development with
natural hazards. BHD amendments allowing for more efficient use of multi-dwelling zoned land
help implement these policies, as the location of land with multi-dwelling zoning is primarily located
outside of natural hazard areas, including flood and landslide hazard areas, with 88 percent of
multi-dwelling zoning located outside these natural hazard areas. About 600 acres (12 percent) of
the multi-dwelling zoned areas are in potential natural hazard areas. Most (530 acres) of this area is
in the Landslide Hazard Area. City programs that are deemed in compliance with Metro Title 3
requirements for flood management, and erosion and sediment control (i.e., City Title 10 Erosion
Control, and the balanced cut and fill requirements of City Title 24), as well as the environmental
overlay zones are unchanged by these amendments and will ensure any new development will be
done in a way to protect people and property from hazards.
Regarding Policy 4.83, the verb “encourage”, which is defined in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan,
means to promote or foster using some combination of voluntary approaches, regulations, or
incentives. Urban heat island effects are areas of the city that are significantly warmer than
surrounding areas due to development. The City Council interprets this policy to mean that the City
should consider policies, programs and regulations that promote strategies to increase the tree
canopy and vegetation; green roofs, cool roofs, and alternatives asphalt for paved surfaces. Urban
heat island risks are addressed by BHD amendments that add new limitations on the size of surface
parking lots and reduce minimum parking requirements, which will help limit urban heat islands by
reducing paved surfaces and allowing more site area for green spaces. Amendments also help
address urban heat islands by limiting the amount of site area that can be paved with asphalt, given
that asphalt contributes more to urban heat impacts than other surfaces, and by provisions that
expand outdoor space and common area requirements, providing more space for trees and other
green elements that help reduce urban heat impacts.
Healthy food
Policy 4.85. Grocery stores and markets in centers. Facilitate the retention and development of
grocery stores, neighborhood-based markets, and farmer’s markets offering fresh produce in centers.
Policy 4.86. Neighborhood food access. Encourage small, neighborhood-based retail food
opportunities, such as corner markets, food co-ops, food buying clubs, and community-supported
agriculture pickup/drop-off sites, to fill in service gaps in food access across the city.
Policy 4.87. Growing food. Increase opportunities to grow food for personal consumption, donation,
sales, and educational purposes.
Policy 4.88. Access to community gardens. Ensure that community gardens are allowed in areas close
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

to or accessible via transit to people living in areas zoned for mixed-use or multi-dwelling
development, where residents have few opportunities to grow food in yards.
161. Finding:  Policies 4.85 through 4.88 provide direction regarding the role of development in
contributing to access to healthy foods. The majority (59 percent) of multi-dwelling zoning is
located in or within a quarter mile of centers, where grocery stores and other food sources are
typically located. Allowing more units on sites in the multi-dwelling zones will allow more
residents to live within walking distance of centers and food sources, as most centers include
grocery stores, farmer’s markets, or other food sources. Amendments allowing limited amounts
of ground-floor commercial uses in multi-dwelling zones along major corridors could expand
opportunities for small corner markets that can help fill in gaps in access to food. Amendments
requiring large sites to include outdoor common areas will expand opportunities for gardens
allowing residents to grow their own food.

Chapter 5: Housing
Goal 5.A: Housing diversity. Portlanders have access to high-quality affordable housing that
accommodates their needs, preferences, and financial capabilities in terms of different types, tenures,
density, sizes, costs, and locations.
162. Finding:  The BHD amendments expand the types of housing allowed, especially in the lower
density RM1 and RM2 multi-dwelling zones, which make up 92 percent of the multi-dwelling
zoned land in Portland.  The change to regulating density by FAR will provide more flexibility for
how many units are allowed inside the building, which will allow for a wider range of smaller
housing types and sizes. In RM2 zone, which is often located along transit corridors, will allow for
a higher density that is similar to adjacent mixed-use commercial zones.
Goal 5.B: Equitable access to housing. Portland ensures equitable access to housing, making a special
effort to remove disparities in housing access for people with disabilities, people of color, low-income
households, diverse household types, and older adults.
163. Finding:  Portland’s multi-dwelling zoning, located in and around centers and corridors, play an
important role in helping to meet the objectives in removing disparities in housing access for
people with disabilities. The change to regulating density by FAR will provide more flexibility for
what happens inside the building scale, which will allow for a wider range of smaller housing
types and sizes, across Portland. The increased range of housing types enabled through the BHD
amendments also broadens the diversity of housing to suit different household types and
compositions, especially in the RM1 zone, which accounts for more than half of Portland’s multi-
dwelling zoning. The visitable unit bonus will provide an incentive (25 percent increase in floor
area) for projects with at least 25 percent of the units meeting standards for visitable or
accessible units.
Goal 5.C: Healthy connected city. Portlanders live in safe, healthy housing that provides convenient
access to jobs and to goods and services that meet daily needs. This housing is connected to the rest
of the city and region by safe, convenient, and affordable multimodal transportation.
164. Finding:  Roughly 52 percent of all acres in the BHD zones are in areas that are complete
neighborhoods. 86% of the acres in BHD zones are located within ¼ mile of transit, and 83% of
acres and 98% of properties are located within ½ mile of frequent transit. In addition, 45 percent
of the acres are located within ¼ mile of bikeways. A large majority, 80%, of multi-dwelling zone
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

acres are located either inside or within ¼ mile of a mixed-use center, within the Inner Ring
Districts close to the Central City, or within ¼ mile of frequent transit or a light rail station, which
means that new housing development in the multi-dwelling zones expands opportunities for
more people to live close to the commercial services, jobs, and transit of these locations. BHD
amendments that allow for more units on multi-dwelling zone sites and that provide
development bonuses for affordable units will expand opportunities for even more people to live
close to services and transit. Amendments that allow for ground-floor commercial along major
corridors and daycare facilities broadly in the multi-dwelling zones will expanding opportunities
for more residents to live close to services, especially in areas such as East Portland that often
lack convenient local access to services.
Goal 5.D: Affordable housing. Portland has an adequate supply of affordable housing units to meet
the needs of residents vulnerable to increasing housing costs.
165. Finding:  The BHD changes include four significant incentives to encourage the production of
affordable housing: 1) increase the inclusionary housing bonus; 2) provide a deeper affordability
bonus; 3) provide a bonus for three-bedroom units; and 4) allow the transfer of unused
development capacity in situations where existing affordable housing is preserved. The BHD
changes increase the affordable/inclusionary housing bonus from 25 percent to 50 percent,
which can make larger (20+ units) projects financially feasible and create affordable units through
the inclusionary housing program. In addition, the BHD changes create a new bonus for housing
projects that provide at least 50 percent of the units affordable to households earning less than
60 percent of Area Median Income (AMI). The bonus for three-bedroom units is refined to focus
on projects where at least 50 percent of the units are affordable to households earning no more
than 100 percent AMI. Finally, the BHD changes allow for unused development capacity to be
transferred to other sites with multi-dwelling zoning in exchange for preservation of existing
affordable housing units.  All of these measures will support the provision of more regulated
affordable housing units in Portland.
Goal 5.E: High-performance housing. Portland residents have access to resource-efficient and high-
performance housing for people of all abilities and income levels.
166. Finding:  The BHD amendments, especially the shift to regulating density by FAR in the RM1 and
RM2 zones, will allow for more and smaller units in these multi-dwelling zones that account for 92
percent of the multi-dwelling zoning. According to a study published by Oregon DEQ A Life Cycle
Approach to Prioritizing Methods of Preventing Waste from the Residential Construction Sector in
the State of Oregon5, of 30 different material reduction and reuse practices evaluated, reducing
home size and multi-family living achieved the largest greenhouse gas reductions along with
significant reductions in other impact categories. Reducing home size by 50 percent results in a
projected 36 percent reduction in lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions. Reducing home size is a
significant leverage point for environmental impact reduction and may be equivalent to achieving
minimum levels of "green" certification.
Diverse and expanding housing supply
Policy 5.1. Housing supply. Maintain sufficient residential development capacity to accommodate
Portland’s projected share of regional household growth.
167. Finding:  The verb “maintain” is defined in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan as to keep what you
have, conserve, continue. The City Council defines “sufficient residential development capacity”

5 https://www.oregon.gov/deq/FilterDocs/ADU-ResBldgLCA-Report.pdf
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

as having more capacity than the 20-year growth forecast, as required by Statewide Planning
Goal 10. Further, the City Council finds that increasing development capacity beyond what is
needed is desired to provide capacity over a longer planning horizon; as well as locational and
housing type choice. The BHD changes to shift to a FAR regulatory system in the RM1 and RM2
zones is estimated to increase the capacity for residential household growth by roughly 14,000
units. This change provides more flexibility for a greater diversity of housing types and expands
opportunity for residential development close to services and transit.
Policy 5.2. Housing growth. Strive to capture at least 25 percent of the seven-county region’s
residential growth (Multnomah, Washington, Clackamas, Yamhill, Columbia, Clark, and Skamania
counties).
168. Finding:  The change to regulating density by FAR will provide more flexibility for how many units
can be built inside the regulated building scale, which will allow for a wider range of smaller
housing types and sizes, across Portland that will support continued housing development in
Portland.
Policy 5.3. Housing potential. Evaluate plans and investments for their impact on housing capacity,
particularly the impact on the supply of housing units that can serve low- and moderate-income
households, and identify opportunities to meet future demand.
169. Finding:  The BHD amendments increase housing capacity by 14,000 units. This increase in
development capacity helps to manage and address housing affordability. The Comprehensive Plan
Update Growth Scenarios Report  found that the preferred growth scenario provided a sufficient
mix of three broad housing types – single family residential, neighborhood and corridor
apartments, and mid- to high-rise units. However, within these broad classes there was some
predicted scarcity within the middle range (attached houses and plexes).
The BHD amendments are specifically tailored to broaden the range of allowed housing types,
especially in the RM1 and RM2 zones. For example, currently on a 5,000 square foot lot in the R2
zone, the maximum density standard typically results in two large townhouse units. Under the RM1
zone, a similarly size building could be developed but could be divided into more, smaller units;
which because of their relative size can be more affordable, as shown in Appendix C of the
Recommended Draft Report. The BHD amendments include four significant incentives to encourage
the production of affordable housing: 1) increase the inclusionary housing bonus; 2) provide a
deeper affordability bonus; 3) provide a bonus for three-bedroom units; and 4) allow the transfer of
unused development capacity in situations where existing affordable housing is preserved. These
changes are expected to increase housing  opportunities for low- and moderate-income households
by making developments with regulated affordable housing more financially feasible.
Policy 5.4. Housing types. Encourage new and innovative housing types that meet the evolving needs
of Portland households, and expand housing choices in all neighborhoods. These housing types
include but are not limited to single-dwelling units; multi-dwelling units; accessory dwelling units;
small units; pre-fabricated homes such as manufactured, modular, and mobile homes; co-housing; and
clustered housing/clustered services.
170. Finding:  “Encourage” is defined in the Comprehensive Plan as “promote or foster using some
combination of voluntary approaches, regulations, or incentives.”  The BHD amendments
promote the evolving needs of Portland households by allowing for more flexibility in terms of
the number of units that can be developed inside the regulated building envelope (FAR, height,
and lot coverage determine the size of the building, but the number of units is not regulated by
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

the zoning code).  The BHDs amendments resolve nonconforming situations, especially for
existing buildings that have a non-conforming density based on the current regulatory limits
based on units per site area.

Furthermore, the Comprehensive Plan includes a definition of “expand.”  “Expand” means to
“make something that already exists more extensive.”  The BHD amendments “expand” housing
choice through the shift to regulating density by floor area ratio in the RM1 and RM2 zones that
account for 92 percent of the multi-dwelling zoning in Portland.  Council interprets “expand
housing choices in all neighborhoods” to mean increase housing choices throughout the City as a
whole.  Council does not interpret this to mean that every single zone must allow for all housing
types but rather Council interprets this policy to ensure that the city-wide there is a variety of
housing types and within neighborhoods. “Neighborhoods” are defined to include broad areas of
the city that typically include residential, commercial, and mixed-use areas.  Neighborhood is not
limited to the specific BHD but rather the BHD exists as a part of the larger area.  Within the
neighborhood BHDs serve to promote one housing type and ensure that within the neighborhood
as a whole there are housing choices.
Policy 5.5. Housing in centers. Apply zoning in and around centers that allows for and supports a
diversity of housing that can accommodate a broad range of households, including multi-dwelling and
family-friendly housing options.
171. Finding:  Fifty-nine (59) percent of acres in the BHD zones are in or within ¼ mile of designated
centers.  The BHD amendments shift to regulating density by floor area ratio in the RM2 zones,
which is the predominant multi-dwelling zoning in Portland’s centers, will accommodate a
broader range of housing types and options because the number of units is no longer limited in
the zoning code.  The BHD amendments include a development bonus for moderate-income
three-bedroom units, affordable to households earning no more than 100 percent of area
median income, to promote family-sized units as part of the diverse mix of housing in the multi-
dwelling zones, including in centers.
Policy 5.6. Middle housing. Enable and encourage development of middle housing. This includes
multi-unit or clustered residential buildings that provide relatively smaller, less expensive units; more
units; and a scale transition between the core of the mixed use center and surrounding single family
areas. Where appropriate, apply zoning that would allow this within a quarter mile of designated
centers, corridors with frequent service transit, high capacity transit stations, and within the Inner
Ring around the Central City.
172. Finding:  BHD amendments enable and encourage, as those terms are defined in the
Comprehensive Plan, middle housing.  Council interprets “middle housing” to mean housing that
is compatible in scale with single-family homes but meets the needs of an urban environment
with moderate density.  In particular, the shift to regulating density by floor area ratio in the RM1
zone (with a 35-foot building height) will allow for greater flexibility in terms of the number of
units.  Under current zoning, a 5,000 square foot lot in the R2 zone is only allowed two units.
Whereas the same lot in the corresponding RM1 is not limited in the number of units that can be
built within the same building envelope.
BHD Amendments also facilitate middle housing types such as duplexes, triplexes, and fourplexes,
which were historic built on small residential lots. The BHD amendments define triplexes and
fourplexes as distinct structure types appropriate for small residential lots, which will expand
opportunities for new lots to be created for these housing types, which has been constrained by
existing minimum lot standards that apply in some multi-dwelling zones that require a minimum
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

lot size of 10,000 square feet for multi-dwelling structures (which definition grouped triplexes
together with 100-unit buildings). BHD amendments also facilitate duplexes by allowing this
middle-housing types on the same size new lots as detached houses (consistent with state House
Bill 2001, which requires duplexes to be allowed on each lot zoned for residential uses that allows
for the development of detached single-family dwellings).
Eighty (80) percent of the multi-dwelling zoned areas are within ¼ mile of a designated center,
corridor with frequent service transit, high capacity transit stations, or within the Inner Ring
neighborhoods.
Policy 5.7. Adaptable housing. Encourage adaption of existing housing and the development of new
housing that can be adapted in the future to accommodate the changing variety of household types.
173. Finding:  The BHD amendments foster and promote the modification and reinvestment of multi-
dwelling buildings by resolving nonconforming situations, increasing flexibility in terms of the
number of units allowed on a site, and expanding the ability to transfer unused density in ways
that can support the continued operations of existing multi-dwelling buildings. The BHD
amendments also include new incentives for visitable or physically-accessible units so that more
housing can flexibly accommodate residents of a variety of ages and abilities.
Policy 5.8. Physically-accessible housing. Allow and support a robust and diverse supply of affordable,
accessible housing to meet the needs of older adults and people with disabilities, especially in centers,
station areas, and other places that are proximate to services and transit.
Policy 5.9. Accessible design for all. Encourage new construction and retrofitting to create physically-
accessible housing, extending from the individual unit to the community, using Universal Design
Principles.
174. Finding:  Policies 5.8 and 5.9 are addressed and supported by BHD amendments that include new
incentives for visitable and physically-accessible units that are intended to offer more housing
options and remove access barriers for people with disabilities.
Policy 5.10. Coordinate with fair housing programs. Foster inclusive communities, overcome
disparities in access to community assets, and enhance housing choice for people in protected classes
throughout the city by coordinating plans and investments to affirmatively further fair housing.
175. Finding:  The Comprehensive Plan defines “foster” to mean “encourage or guide the incremental
development of something over a long period of time.”  The BHD amendments encourage and
enhance housing choice by increasing incentives for affordable housing, including supporting the
preservation of existing affordable housing through a density/FAR transfer allowance.
Households of color, and low-income, cost-burdened households occupy multi-dwelling housing
at higher rates than the city as a whole.  The BHD amendments will resolve nonconforming
situations, increase maximum densities, and expand density transfer provisions in ways that can
support the continued operation of BHDs in Portland. Greater stability for these parks can help
maintain access to relatively affordable housing, especially for historically inequitably burdened
communities of color, underserved and under-represented communities, and other vulnerable
populations.
Housing access
Policy 5.11. Remove barriers. Remove potential regulatory barriers to housing choice for people in
protected classes to ensure freedom of choice in housing type, tenure, and location.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

176. Finding:  The City Council interprets the intent of this policy is to ensure housing choices for
residents in all neighborhoods, not the development options on a single parcel. The BHD
amendments remove regulatory barriers by providing for a wider range of housing types in the
RM1 and RM2 zones throughout the city, which encompass 92 percent of the multi-dwelling
zoning in Portland.
Policy 5.12. Impact analysis. Evaluate plans and investments, significant new infrastructure, and
significant new development to identify potential disparate impacts on housing choice, access, and
affordability for protected classes and low-income households. Identify and implement strategies to
mitigate the anticipated impacts.
Policy 5.13. Housing stability. Coordinate plans and investments with programs that prevent
avoidable, involuntary evictions and foreclosures.
Policy 5.14. Preserve communities. Encourage plans and investments to protect and/or restore the
socioeconomic diversity and cultural stability of established communities.
Policy 5.15. Gentrification/displacement risk. Evaluate plans and investments, significant new
infrastructure, and significant new development for the potential to increase housing costs for, or
cause displacement of communities of color, low- and moderate-income households, and renters.
Identify and implement strategies to mitigate the anticipated impacts.
Policy 5.16. Involuntary displacement. When plans and investments are expected to create
neighborhood change, limit the involuntary displacement of those who are under-served and under-
represented. Use public investments and programs, and coordinate with nonprofit housing
organizations (such as land trusts and housing providers) to create permanently-affordable housing
and to mitigate the impacts of market pressures that cause involuntary displacement.
177. Finding:  The City Council interprets Policies 5.12 to 5.16 as requiring evaluation and analysis as to
who will benefit and who will be burdened by a planning decision, including amendments to the
Comprehensive Plan, the Comprehensive Plan Map, the Zoning Code, and the Zoning Map.  For the
BHD amendments, the Council interprets “involuntary displacement” to occur when a resident is
forced to relocate due to factors that are beyond the residents control including but not limited to
increased rents, and decisions by landlords to redevelop property. A detailed quantitative risk
analysis was performed (See Recommended Draft Report Appendix F, Displacement Risk Analysis)
that compared the default comprehensive plan displacement risk against risks increased through
the BHD amendments. The analysis looked at low-income renters of single-dwelling houses in
multi-dwelling zones, who are particularly vulnerable to displacement.  The analysis shows that
there is a small increase in displacement risk – about 300 single-family houses and 25 smaller
apartment buildings.  This increased risk is mitigated by the expectation that the shift to an FAR
regulatory approach will result in more units and, potentially, larger projects that will fall under the
mandatory Inclusionary Housing (IH) program.  In addition, the BHD amendments increase the
density incentive for IH units from 25 percent to 50 percent, which is expected to make these
projects more financially feasible.  The BHD amendments also create a new deeper affordability
bonus that allows for a 100 percent increase in FAR (plus 10 feet of additional building height and
10 percent increase in building coverage) for projects that have at least 50 percent of the on-site
units affordable to households earning no more than 60 percent AMI, a significantly greater
amount and level of affordability than required by inclusionary housing. Finally, the BHD changes
create allowances for unused development capacity to be transferred to other sites from sites
where existing affordable housing is being preserved and guaranteed to remain affordable.  The
City Council finds that these measures are sufficient to mitigate the anticipated impacts to
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

protected classes and low-income households; contribute to housing stability, help preserve
communities, and help create permanently affordable housing options for those households that
might be displaced due to redevelopment enabled by the BHD amendments.
Testimony by James Peterson raised concerns that the BHD amendments would result in
redevelopment of existing multi-dwelling housing, which will lead to the displacement and
gentrification of existing affordable rental units. The City Council acknowledges this concern but
finds that, based on the displacement analysis described above, the risk of redevelopment of
existing multi-family units is low and that those risks and potential loss of affordable units is
mitigated by the development bonuses that incentivize the production of affordable housing units.
Policy 5.17. Land banking. Support and coordinate with community organizations to hold land in
reserve for affordable housing, as an anti-displacement tool, and for other community development
purposes.
178. Finding:  The Zoning Code has no provisions for land banking and this policy does not require land
banking to be addressed in the Zoning Code. The BHD amendments do not change this and do
not affect other implementation approaches to land banking. The BHD amendments do support
the creation of more affordable housing units (with bonus FAR incentives) on sites that are
currently held or may be acquired in the future for affordable housing development.
Policy 5.18. Rebuild communities. Coordinate plans and investments with programs that enable
communities impacted by involuntary displacement to maintain social and cultural connections, and
re-establish a stable presence and participation in the impacted neighborhoods.
179. Finding:  The BHD amendments increase maximum densities, expand density transfer provisions
to support the long-term stability of multi-dwelling development, which is disproportionately
occupied by communities vulnerable to displacement.  The BHD amendments create the
opportunity for increased housing opportunities, including affordable housing, on the multi-
dwelling zoned parcels in the impacted neighborhoods that are included the Portland Housing
Bureau’s North/Northeast Preference Policy, which gives priority placement to people who were
displaced, are at risk of displacement, or who are descendants of households that were displaced
due to urban renewal in North and Northeast Portland.
Policy 5.19. Aging in place. Encourage a range of housing options and supportive environments to
enable older adults to remain in their communities as their needs change.
180. Finding:  The BHD amendments include incentives for visitable and physically-accessible units that
are intended to offer more options and remove access barriers for people of all ages and abilities.
Incentives are included to encourage development of affordable units available to households
earning 80% or less of the median family income, which is important for seniors on fixed incomes.
The increased range of housing types enabled through the BHD amendments also broadens the
diversity of housing to suit different household types and compositions in many more areas of
the city, including multigenerational households, cottage clusters and cohousing to provide for a
diversity of options available to older adults as they choose to transition from larger single
detached houses.
Housing location
Policy 5.20. Coordinate housing needs in high-poverty areas. Meet the housing needs of under-
served and under-represented populations living in high-poverty areas by coordinating plans and
investments with housing programs.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

181. Finding:  Low-income households occupy multi-dwelling housing units at a higher share than the
average Portlander – 58% of low-income households live in multi-dwelling units (American
Communities Survey PUMS 2015-2017 3-year derived estimates), whereas multi-dwelling units
only make up 45% of the housing units in Portland. The BHD amendments remove regulatory
barriers by providing for a wider range of housing types in the RM1 and RM2 zones throughout
the city, which encompass 92 percent of the multi-dwelling zoning in Portland; and include four
significant incentives to encourage the production of affordable housing: 1) increase the
inclusionary housing bonus; 2) provide a deeper affordability bonus; 3) provide a bonus for three-
bedroom units; and 4) allow the transfer of unused development capacity in situations where
existing affordable housing is preserved. These changes are expected to increase housing
opportunities for under-served and under-represented populations (BHD Appendix C summarizes
a financial feasibility analysis that found that a mixed-income inclusionary housing development
scenario, using BHD development parameters and including units affordable at 60% of area
median income and, was economically feasible and outperformed purely market rate
development scenarios).
Policy 5.21. Access to opportunities. Improve equitable access to active transportation, jobs, open
spaces, high-quality schools, and supportive services and amenities in areas with high concentrations
of under-served and under-represented populations and an existing supply of affordable housing.
182. Finding:  The City Council interprets this policy to provide guidance to public investment decisions
to improve access to opportunity.  This policy does not apply to the BHD amendments because
they address housing choice and supply.
Policy 5.22. New development in opportunity areas. Locate new affordable housing in areas that
have high/medium levels of opportunity in terms of access to active transportation, jobs, open spaces,
high-quality schools, and supportive services and amenities.
183. Finding:  Fifty-two (52%) percent of multi-dwelling zoned land is located within complete
neighborhoods. As such, provisions that allow for increased housing type flexibility and offer
bonus FAR for new affordable housing enables and encourages the development of new housing
units in these high/medium opportunity areas. Most of the rest of multi-dwelling zoning is
located along or close to corridors where transit and commercial services are located (95% or
multi-dwelling zone properties are within ¼ mile of streets with frequent transit service),
providing opportunities for affordable housing to be located close to services in areas that
otherwise may lack components of complete neighborhoods, such as interconnected streets or
that lack complete sidewalks on secondary streets. A large majority, 80%, of land with multi-
dwelling zoning is located either inside or within ¼ mile of a mixed-use center, within the Inner
Ring Districts close to the Central City, or within ¼ mile of frequent transit or a light rail station,
which means that new housing development in the multi-dwelling zones expands opportunities
for more people to live close to the commercial services, jobs, and transit of these locations. BHD
amendments that provide development bonuses for affordable units will expand opportunities
for more affordable housing to be located close to services and transit.
Policy 5.23. Higher-density housing. Locate higher-density housing, including units that are affordable
and accessible, in and around centers to take advantage of the access to active transportation, jobs,
open spaces, schools, and various services and amenities.
184. Finding:  There are 3,200 acres (59%) of multi-dwelling zoned parcels are located within ¼-mile of
centers. The BHD amendments remove regulatory barriers to encourage higher-density housing
by providing for a wider range of housing types in the RM1 and RM2 zones throughout the city,
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

which encompass 92 percent of the multi-dwelling zoning in Portland; and include four significant
incentives to encourage the production of affordable housing.
Policy 5.24. Impact of housing on schools. Evaluate plans and investments for the effect of housing
development on school enrollment, financial stability, and student mobility. Coordinate with school
districts to ensure plans are aligned with school facility plans.
185. Finding:  David Douglas School District (DDSD) is the only school district in Portland with an
adopted school facility plan. The Buildable Lands Inventory calculates available development
capacity and predicts where new households will be allocated over the planning period.
Comparing the default Comprehensive Plan zoning with the BHD amendments, the net change to
households in the David Douglas School District is a reduction of 1,612 units ( a 4% decrease)
from the current plan forecast. The David Douglas School District has indicated that it can
accommodate these changes into their future forecasting for their facility plan.
Housing affordability
Policy 5.25. Housing preservation. Preserve and produce affordable housing to meet needs that are
not met by the private market by coordinating plans and investments with housing providers and
organizations.
186. Finding:  The BHD amendments remove regulatory barriers to the production of affordable
housing by providing for a wider range of housing types in the RM1 and RM2 zones throughout
the city and include two significant incentives to encourage the production of affordable housing:
1) provide a deeper affordability bonus; and 2) allow the transfer of unused development
capacity in situations where existing affordable housing is preserved. These changes are expected
to increase housing opportunities for under-served and under-represented populations.
Affordable housing providers, including Rose CDC, PCRI, Home Forward, Proud Ground, Habitat
for Humanity, REACH and others, were involved in the BHD project throughout the planning
process, from an early roundtable discussion, through participation in stakeholder working group
meetings, and in a series of meetings focused on affordable housing incentives.
Policy 5.26. Regulated affordable housing target. Strive to produce at least 10,000 new regulated
affordable housing units citywide by 2035 that will be affordable to households in the 0-80 percent
MFI bracket.
187. Finding:  The BHD amendments include three significant incentives to encourage the production
of affordable housing: 1) increase the inclusionary housing bonus; 2) provide a deeper
affordability bonus; and 3) allow the transfer of unused development capacity in situations where
existing affordable housing is preserved. These changes are expected to encourage the
production of new regulated affordable housing that will support meeting this target.
Policy 5.27. Funding plan. Encourage development or financial or regulatory mechanisms to achieve
the regulated affordable housing target set forth for 2035.
188. Finding:  As of August 1, 2016, the City of Portland adopted a one-percent affordable housing
construction excise tax to support the production of affordable housing. The BHD amendments
do not directly affect this program or any other funding program to support the production of
affordable housing. The BHD amendments do include regulatory mechanisms, such as increased
density bonuses, to support the production of affordable housing.
Policy 5.28. Inventory of regulated affordable housing. Coordinate periodic inventories of the supply
of regulated affordable housing in the four-county (Clackamas, Clark, Multnomah and Washington)
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

region with Metro.
189. Finding:  Council interprets this policy to apply to ongoing intergovernmental coordination, and
not a directive to be applied with each land use plan amendment. This policy is not applicable.
Policy 5.29. Permanently-affordable housing. Increase the supply of permanently-affordable housing,
including both rental and homeownership opportunities.
190. Finding:  The 2035 Comprehensive Plan defines permanently-affordable housing as units that will
remain affordable to a low-income household, such as housing that is owned and maintained by a
public agency or a nonprofit organization. The BHD amendments include three significant
incentives to encourage the production of affordable housing: 1) increase the inclusionary
housing bonus; 2) provide a deeper affordability bonus; and 3) allow the transfer of unused
development capacity in situations where existing affordable housing is preserved. These changes
are expected to encourage the production of new regulated affordable housing that will support
meeting this target.
Policy 5.30. Housing cost burden. Evaluate plans and investments for their impact on household cost,
and consider ways to reduce the combined cost of housing, utilities, and/or transportation. Encourage
energy-efficiency investments to reduce overall housing costs.
191. Finding:  The BHD amendments remove regulatory barriers to a wider range of housing types in
the RM1 and RM2 zones throughout the city, which encompass 92 percent of the multi-dwelling
zoning in Portland; and include four significant incentives to encourage the production of
affordable housing. A financial feasibility analysis (BHD Appendix C) indicated that the BHD
amendments provide economically feasible housing options for smaller multi-dwelling housing
types that are less expensive than the townhouse-type units that are currently the predominant
new construction housing in Portland’s low-rise zones.
The BHD amendments generally support reduced transportation costs because 86 percent of the
acres with multi-dwelling zoning is located within ¼ mile of transit, which makes transit a feasible
option for residents and can reduce reliance on more expensive automobile transportation.
The BHD amendments generally support reduced utility cost by encouraging smaller units and
more attached units. According to studies conducted by the State DEQ, “Reducing home size is
among the best tier of options for reducing waste generation in the Oregon housing sector, while
simultaneously achieving a large environmental benefit across many categories of
impact…Reduction in home size is a significant leverage point for impact reduction [including
non-renewable energy use] and may be a more effective measure than achieving minimum levels
of ‘green certification’”
Policy 5.31. Household prosperity. Facilitate expanding the variety of types and sizes of affordable
housing units, and do so in locations that provide low-income households with greater access to
convenient transit and transportation, education and training opportunities, the Central City,
industrial districts, and other employment areas.
192. Finding:  The BHD amendments remove regulatory barriers to encourage higher-density housing
by providing for a wider range of housing types in the RM1 and RM2 zones throughout the city,
which encompass 92 percent of the multi-dwelling zoning in Portland; and include four significant
incentives to encourage the production of affordable housing.
Fifty-two (52) percent of the multi-dwelling zoning area is located in complete neighborhoods,
areas with the highest access to employment, education, and training opportunities, and are well
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

served by transit. Eighty-six (86) percent of the multi-dwelling zoning area is within a half mile of
a frequent bus line, max or streetcar station, which can provide access to employment and
education opportunities.
Policy 5.32. Affordable housing in centers. Encourage income diversity in and around centers by
allowing a mix of housing types and tenures.
193. Finding:  The BHD amendments are consistent with this policy by allowing a greater diversity of
housing types in the multi-dwelling zones, including within centers, by moving from regulating
development intensity by unit density to instead regulate this by the size of buildings or FAR in the
new RM1 and RM2 zones. This will allow a greater diversity of numbers and types of units within
the same building scale, compared to current regulations. BHD amendments also promote income
diversity through affordable housing bonuses, such as the inclusionary housing and deeper housing
affordability bonuses, that allow for market-rate units along with the bonus requirements for
affordable units, and through deeper housing affordability bonus provisions for both rental and
ownership housing options. Housing type diversity is also promoted by a bonus for projects that
include three-bedroom units affordable to moderate income households.
Policy 5.33. Central City affordable housing. Encourage the preservation and production of affordable
housing in the Central City to take advantage of the area’s unique concentration of active
transportation access, jobs, open spaces, and supportive services and amenities.
194. Finding:  The BHD amendments include comprehensive plan map and zoning map amendments
to rezone a three-block area in the Goose Hollow subdistrict of the Central City Plan District. The
map changes apply the larger-scale RM4 zoning to this three-block area, which is outside the
historic district, instead of the proposed RM3 zoning that would be called for under the zoning
crosswalk applied to the other RH zoning with 2:1 FAR. This area is in the Central City Plan
District, which provides a base FAR of 4:1, which is the base FAR in the RM4 zone. Also, RM4
zoning would more closely correspond to this and other development standards that apply in this
area. With these map changes, the block west of SW 20th between Salmon and Main streets
would become eligible for the transit station area allowance for 100-feet building height (this
block includes large existing buildings over 80-feet tall which exceed the current height limit of 65
feet).  The other two blocks in this area are already provided with a Central City Plan District
height allowance of 100 feet.
As part of the Central City Plan District, these sites are eligible for a 3:1 FAR bonus for inclusionary
housing, which brings the maximum FAR to 7:1, which is what the site would be eligible for under
the new deeper affordability bonus in the RM4. These changes maintain the current level of
development capacity for producing affordable housing (7:1 FAR).
Policy 5.34. Affordable housing resources. Pursue a variety of funding sources and mechanisms
including new financial and regulatory tools to preserve and develop housing units and various
assistance programs for households whose needs are not met by the private market.
195. Finding:  This policy does not apply because it concerns affordable housing funding sources and
mechanisms, which are not addressed by zoning code regulations that are the focus of the BHD
amendments.
Policy 5.35. Inclusionary housing. Use inclusionary zoning and other regulatory tools to effectively link
the production of affordable housing to the production of market-rate housing.
196. Finding:  The BHD amendments increase the affordable housing bonus from a 25% to a 50%
increase from base FARs, which will help make development projects subject to the inclusionary
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

housing requirements more financially feasible. Also, the BHD amendments expand housing
choice through the shift to regulating density by floor area ratio in the RM1 and RM2 zones. This
shift is significant in the RM2 (formerly R1 zone), where on a 10,000 square foot site, under the
R1 zone a maximum of 10 units is allowed (1 unit per 1,000 square feet of site area), but under
the RM4 FAR standards, a developer could build 30 or more units (depending on the size of
units), which can mean more development projects are subject to the inclusionary housing
requirements.
Policy 5.36. Impact of regulations on affordability. Evaluate how existing and new regulations affect
private development of affordable housing, and minimize negative impacts where possible. Avoid
regulations that facilitate economically-exclusive neighborhoods.
197. Finding:  The primary purpose of the BHD amendments is to create more housing options, including
the development of affordable housing, in areas that are already zoned for multi-dwelling
development. The map amendments do not reduce the development capacity in way that will
create economically-exclusive neighborhoods.  The changes shift to FAR regulations and calculating
allowed floor area based on the parcel size prior to any right-of-way dedication will allow for
greater density, more efficient use of land, and lower land costs per unit. The amendments include
an increase in the inclusionary housing bonus, a deeper affordability bonus, and a transfer program
to support the preservation of existing affordable housing. Other existing development bonuses are
being discontinued to prioritize affordable housing. Some of the recommended development
standards will reduce the cost of development (reduced parking requirements) and some standards
could add costs, such as the requirement for outdoor space in the RM3 and RM4 zones.
Amendments also exempt housing that provides affordable units (through the inclusionary housing
or the deeper housing affordability bonuses) from minimum parking requirements in the multi-
dwelling and mixed-use zones citywide, which will reduce construction costs and increase the
economic feasibility of projects that include affordable units (this is documented in in BHD
Appendix C). The BHD amendments address issues that had been identified by developers as
providing the greatest barriers and costs to multi-dwelling development in the multi-dwelling
zones: flexibility for numbers of units, minimum parking requirements, and setback regulations.
Amendments allowing more development to not include off-street parking has a large impact in
costs, as structured parking costs between $20,000 to $40,000 per space (depending on
construction type). Expanding allowances for no (or low) amounts of off street parking to all small
sites up to 10,000 square feet in size would affect over 5,000 properties in the multi-dwelling
zones, providing significant cost savings on these properties for projects that do not include
parking. The amendments also take away a major cost to including new street connections as part
of development by calculating development scale allowances (FAR) prior to street dedication. Some
amendments add some costs, such as expanded requirements for outdoor space. However,
analysis of the economic feasibility of the development parameters provided by the BHD
amendments indicates that the combination of allowing more units and eliminating most parking
requirements, in concert inclusionary housing development bonuses and other development
parameters, substantially increases the development feasibility of multi-dwelling development on
compact sites (see BHD Appendix C). On balance, the City Council finds that these amendments will
encourage the development of affordable housing; minimize increased development costs; and
avoid the facilitation of economically-exclusive neighborhoods.
Policy 5.37. Mobile home parks. Encourage preservation of mobile home parks as a low/moderate-
income housing option. Evaluate plans and investments for potential redevelopment pressures on
existing mobile home parks and impacts on park residents and protect this low/moderate-income
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

housing option. Facilitate replacement and alteration of manufactured homes within an existing
mobile home park.
198. Finding:  Existing mobile home parks are zoned RMP (Residential Manufactured Dwelling Park),
which is not affected by these amendments. Therefore, this policy does not apply to the BHD
amendments.
Policy 5.38. Workforce housing. Encourage private development of a robust supply of housing that is
affordable to moderate-income households located near convenient multimodal transportation that
provides access to education and training opportunities, the Central City, industrial districts, and other
employment areas.
199. Finding:  The BHD amendments remove regulatory barriers to encourage higher-density housing
by providing for a wider range of housing types in the RM1 and RM2 zones throughout the city,
which encompass 92 percent of the multi-dwelling zoning in Portland; and include four significant
incentives to encourage the production of affordable housing.
Fifty-two (52) percent of the multi-dwelling zoning area is located in a complete neighborhood,
areas with the highest access to employment, education, and training opportunities, and are well
served by transit. Eighty-six (86) percent of the multi-dwelling zoning area is within a half mile of
a frequent bus line, max or streetcar station, which can provide access to employment and
education opportunities.
Policy 5.39. Compact single-family options. Encourage development and preservation of small
resource-efficient and affordable single-family homes in all areas of the city.
200. Finding:  The BHD amendments remove regulatory barriers to encourage higher-density housing by
providing for a wider range of housing types in the RM1 and RM2 zones throughout the city, which
encompass 92 percent of the multi-dwelling zoning in Portland; and include four significant
incentives to encourage the production of affordable housing. Specifically, the changes to the RM1
zones will support the development of smaller townhouse development by allowing for more units
on a parcel of land than under current regulations.
Policy 5.40 Employer-assisted housing. Encourage employer-assisted affordable housing in
conjunction with major employment development.
201. Finding:  The BHD amendments increase density and create an affordable housing density bonus
that could be utilized by a major employer to provide employer-assisted affordable housing.
Policy 5.41 Affordable homeownership. Align plans and investments to support improving
homeownership rates and locational choice for people of color and other groups who have been
historically under-served and under-represented.
Policy 5.42 Homeownership retention. Support opportunities for homeownership retention for
people of color and other groups who have been historically under-served and under-represented.
Policy 5.43 Variety in homeownership opportunities. Encourage a variety of ownership
opportunities and choices by allowing and supporting including but not limited to condominiums,
cooperatives, mutual housing associations, limited equity cooperatives, land trusts, and sweat equity.
202. Finding:  Council finds that Policies 5.41 through 5.43 all aim to support opportunities for
homeownership for all Portlanders, including historically under-served and under-represented
Portlanders. The BHD amendments remove regulatory barriers to encourage higher-density
housing by providing for a wider range of housing types in the RM1 and RM2 zones throughout
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

the city, which encompass 92 percent of the multi-dwelling zoning in Portland and can create
lower-cost ownership opportunities where the units have been converted through a
condominium process. The regulatory changes allow for a diversity of housing types, including
small plexes and other housing types that may also be suitable candidates for cooperatives,
mutual housing associations, and limited equity cooperatives. Furthermore, BHD amendments
support homeownership opportunities through a deeper housing affordability bonus that
provides development incentives for projects that provide ownership housing affordable to
households earning no more than 80 percent of area median income. Another development
bonus, for moderate income three-bedroom units affordable to households earning no more
than 100 percent of area median income, will also facilitate the development of ownership
housing in the multi-dwelling zones.
Policy 5.44 Regional cooperation. Facilitate opportunities for greater regional cooperation in
addressing housing needs in the Portland metropolitan area, especially for the homeless, low- and
moderate-income households, and historically under-served and under-represented communities.
Policy 5.45 Regional balance. Encourage development of a “regional balance” strategy to secure
greater regional participation to address the housing needs of homeless people and communities of
color, low- and moderate-income households, and historically under-served and under-represented
communities throughout the region.
203. Finding:  Council finds that Policies 5.44 through 5.45 address how the City engages with Metro
and other jurisdictions in the Portland region on housing issues.  The BHD amendments are one
strategy to encourage higher-density housing by providing for a wider range of housing types that
can help maintain lower-cost market-rate housing in Portland that will help Portland meet its
housing needs and serve as an example for other jurisdictions in the region.
Homelessness
Policy 5.46. Housing continuum. Prevent homelessness and reduce the time spent being homeless by
ensuring that a continuum of safe and affordable housing opportunities and related supportive
services are allowed, including but not limited to Permanent Supportive Housing, transitional housing,
self-built micro housing communities, emergency shelters, temporary shelters such as warming
centers, and transitional campgrounds.
204. Finding:  The BHD amendments do not affect the group living or community service regulations in
the multi-dwelling zones. The City Council defines permanent supportive housing as affordable
housing combined with supportive services to help individuals and families lead more stable lives.
The BHD amendments include three significant incentives to encourage the production of
affordable housing: 1) increase the inclusionary housing bonus; 2) provide a deeper affordability
bonus; and 3) allow the transfer of unused development capacity in situations where existing
affordable housing is preserved. These changes are expected to encourage the production of new
regulated affordable housing. Supportive services are regulated as a conditional use in the multi-
dwelling zones and the regulations are not changed by these BHD amendments.
Health, safety, and well-being
Policy 5.47  Healthy housing. Encourage development and maintenance of all housing, especially
multi-dwelling housing, that protects the health and safety of residents and encourages healthy
lifestyles and active living.
205. Finding:  The BHD amendments include changes to require or encourage healthy lifestyles and
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

active living. The changes include support tree preservation through FAR transfers; usable
outdoor space and shared common areas on large sites requirements; limits on large parking lots;
and reduce parking requirements that can promote health and safety by reducing urban heat
island effects.
Policy 5.48 Housing safety. Require safe and healthy housing free of hazardous materials such as
lead, asbestos, and radon.
206. Finding:  The BHD amendments provide pathways for currently non-conforming multi-family
buildings in BHD zones to become conforming and enable owners to reinvest and improve living
conditions in these units. The changes include a FAR transfer bonus for seismic upgrades to
historic resources.
Policy 5.49. Housing quality. Encourage housing that provides high indoor air quality, access to
sunlight and outdoor spaces, and is protected from excessive noise, pests, and hazardous
environmental conditions.
Policy 5.50. High-performance housing. Encourage energy efficiency, green building practices,
materials, and design to produce healthy, efficient, durable, and adaptable homes that are affordable
or reasonably priced.
207. Finding: The BHD amendments encourage smaller units and more attached units which results in
improved energy efficiency and is consistent with the policy of creating high-performance
housing. According to studies conducted by the State DEQ, “Reducing home size is among the
best tier of options for reducing waste generation in the Oregon housing sector, while
simultaneously achieving a large environmental benefit across many categories of
impact…Reduction in home size is a significant leverage point for impact reduction [including
non-renewable energy use] and may be a more effective measure than achieving minimum levels
of ‘green certification’” [https://www.oregon.gov/deq/FilterDocs/ADU-ResBldgLCA-Report.pdf]
Attached housing is also more energy efficient than detached forms of housing. According to the
EPA, “fairly substantial differences are seen in detached versus attached homes [approximately
17.5% improved efficiency], but the most striking difference is the variation in energy use
between single-family detached homes and multifamily homes [50% improved efficiency], due to
the inherent efficiencies from more compact size and shared walls among units.”
[https://www.epa.gov/sites/production/files/2014-03/documents/location_efficiency_btu.pdf]
Policy 5.51. Healthy and active living. Encourage housing that provides features supportive of healthy
eating and active living such as useable open areas, recreation areas, community gardens, crime-
preventive design, and community kitchens in multifamily housing.
208. Finding:  The BHD amendments include changes to require or encourage healthy lifestyles and
active living. The changes support tree preservation through FAR transfers, require usable
outdoor space and shared common areas on large sites requirements, place limits on large
parking lots, and reduce parking requirements that can create more useable open areas, which
can be supportive of healthy active living. The changes allow indoor community spaces, including
kitchens, to be used to meet outdoor area requirements in the multi-dwelling zones.
Policy 5.52. Walkable surroundings. Encourage active transportation in residential areas through the
development of pathways, sidewalks, and high-quality onsite amenities such as secure bicycle parking.
209. Finding:  The BHD amendments include building design standards to encourage pedestrian-
friendly street frontages by limiting front garages and parking structures on street frontages;
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

disallowing parking between buildings along streets; and requiring building entrances to be
oriented to streets or courtyards. There are no changes to the bicycle parking standards as part of
this ordinance.  Council is considering amendments to bicycle parking standards as a part of a
separate ordinance.
Policy 5.53. Responding to social isolation. Encourage site designs and relationship to adjacent
developments that reduce social isolation for groups that often experience it, such as older adults,
people with disabilities, communities of color, and immigrant communities.
210. Finding:  The BHD amendments include provisions for shared courtyards and outdoors spaces as
well as more pedestrian friendly streetscapes, through limits on garages and parking location,
that can create conditions that enhance interactions with neighbors in the same building and
neighborhoods. Amendments also support the provision of indoor spaces, such as community
rooms, as part of housing development, which can help reduce social isolation for residents
during times of the year when outdoor activity is limited.
Policy 5.54 Renter protections. Enhance renter health, safety, and stability through education,
expansion of enhanced inspections, and support of regulations and incentives that protect tenants
and prevent involuntary displacement.
211. Finding: The BHD amendments do not alter regulations establishing tenant protections including
required relocation assistance when properties are sold and/or redeveloped (PCC 30.01.085).

Chapter 6: Economic Development
Goal 6.A: Prosperity. Portland has vigorous economic growth and a healthy, diverse economy that
supports prosperity and equitable access to employment opportunities for an increasingly diverse
population. A strong economy that is keeping up with population growth and attracting resources and
talent can:
 Create opportunity for people to achieve their full potential.
 Improve public health.
 Support a healthy environment.
 Support the fiscal well-being of the city.
Goal 6.B: Development. Portland supports an attractive environment for industrial, commercial, and
institutional job growth and development by: 1) maintaining an adequate land supply; 2) a local
development review system that is nimble, predictable, and fair; and 3) high-quality public facilities
and services.
Goal 6.C: Business district vitality. Portland implements land use policy and investments to:
 Ensure that commercial, institutional, and industrial districts support business retention and
expansion.
 Encourage the growth of districts that support productive and creative synergies among local
businesses.
 Provide convenient access to goods, services, and markets.
 Take advantage of our location and quality of life advantages as a gateway to world-class
natural landscapes in Northwest Oregon, Southwest Washington, and the Columbia River
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Basin, and a robust interconnected system of natural landscapes within the region’s Urban
Growth Boundary.
212. Finding: The BHD map amendments do not affect any land designated for industrial or
employment uses. The BHD map amendments do not affect the base development capacity in
the commercial mixed-use areas. In addition, the BHD zoning code amendments expand the
opportunity for small-scale commercial uses in multi-dwelling zones along civic and neighborhood
corridors. Therefore, there is no reduction to employment capacity. The amendments help
support business district vitality by allowing for more households to locate closer to goods,
services, and markets. The City Council finds that the BHD amendments are consistent with
economic development goals and policies, especially those that support neighborhood business
districts.
Diverse, expanding city economy
Policy 6.1. Diverse and growing community. Expand economic opportunity and improve economic
equity for Portland’s diverse, growing population through sustained business growth.
Policy 6.2. Diverse and expanding economy. Align plans and investments to maintain the diversity of
Portland’s economy and status as Oregon’s largest job center with growth across all sectors
(commercial, industrial, creative, and institutional) and across all parts of the city.
Policy 6.3. Employment growth. Strive to capture at least 25 percent of the seven-county region’s
employment growth (Multnomah, Washington, Clackamas, Yamhill, Columbia, Clark, and Skamania
counties).
Policy 6.4. Fiscally-stable city. Promote a high citywide jobs-to-households ratio that supports tax
revenue growth at pace with residential demand for municipal services.
Policy 6.5. Economic resilience. Improve Portland’s economic resilience to impacts from climate
change and natural disasters through a strong local economy and equitable opportunities for
prosperity.
Policy 6.6. Low-carbon and renewable energy economy. Align plans and investments with efforts to
improve energy efficiency and reduce lifecycle carbon emissions from business operations. Promote
employment opportunities associated with energy efficiency projects, waste reduction, production of
more durable goods, and recycling.
Policy 6.7. Competitive advantages. Maintain and strengthen the city’s comparative economic
advantages including access to a high-quality workforce, business diversity, competitive business
climate, and multimodal transportation infrastructure.
Policy 6.8. Business environment. Use plans and investments to help create a positive business
environment in the city and provide strategic assistance to retain, expand, and attract businesses.
Policy 6.9. Small business development. Facilitate the success and growth of small businesses and
coordinate plans and investments with programs that provide technical and financial assistance to
promote sustainable operating practices.
Policy 6.10. Business innovation. Encourage innovation, research, development, and
commercialization of new technologies, products, and services through responsive regulations and
public sector approaches.
Policy 6.11. Sharing economy. Encourage mechanisms that enable individuals, corporations, non-
profits, and government to market, distribute, share, and reuse excess capacity in goods and services.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

This includes peer-to-peer transactions, crowd funding platforms, and a variety of business models to
facilitate borrowing and renting unused resources.
Policy 6.12. Economic role of livability and ecosystem services. Conserve and enhance Portland’s
cultural, historic, recreational, educational, food-related, and ecosystem assets and services for their
contribution to the local economy and their importance for retention and attraction of skilled workers
and businesses.
213. Finding:  Policies 6.1 through 6.12 provide direction regarding economic and employment growth.
The BHD map amendments do not affect any land designated for industrial or employment uses.
The BHD map amendments do not affect the base development capacity in the commercial
mixed-use areas. The BHD zoning code amendments expand the opportunity for small-scale
commercial uses in the multi-dwelling zones along civic and neighborhood corridors. In addition,
providing a wider variety of housing to suit a broader segment of the population will help retain
and attract skilled workers.
Land development
Policy 6.13. Land supply. Provide supplies of employment land that are sufficient to meet the long-
term and short-term employment growth forecasts, adequate in terms of amounts and types of sites,
available and practical for development and intended uses. Types of sites are distinguished primarily
by employment geographies identified in the Economic Opportunities Analysis, although capacity
needs for building types with similar site characteristics can be met in other employment geographies.
214. Finding: The BHD amendments do not change the comprehensive plan designations of any
currently designated employment lands. Therefore, there is no reduction to the City’s
employment capacity.
Policy 6.14. Brownfield redevelopment. Overcome financial-feasibility gaps to cleanup and redevelop
60 percent of brownfield acreage by 2035.
Policy 6.15. Regionally-competitive development sites. Improve the competitiveness of vacant and
underutilized sites located in Portland’s employment areas using incentives, and regional and state
assistance for needed infrastructure and site readiness improvements.
Policy 6.16. Regulatory climate. Improve development review processes and regulations to encourage
predictability and support local and equitable employment growth and encourage business retention,
including:
6.16.a. Assess and understand cumulative regulatory costs to promote Portland’s financial
competitiveness with other comparable cities.
6.16.b. Promote certainty for new development through appropriate allowed uses and “clear
and objective” standards to permit typical development types without a discretionary review.
6.16.c. Allow discretionary-review to facilitate flexible and innovative approaches to meet
requirements.
6.16.d. Design and monitor development review processes to avoid unnecessary delays.
6.16.e. Promote cost effective compliance with federal and state mandates, productive
intergovernmental coordination, and efficient, well-coordinated development review and
permitting procedures.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

215. Finding: Policies 6.14 through 6.16 provide direction regarding development sites and regulations
in employment areas. The BHD amendments do not change the comprehensive plan designations
or regulations affecting any currently designated employment lands. Therefore, there is no
adverse impact to employment capacity.
Policy 6.17. Short-term land supply. Provide for a competitive supply of development-ready sites with
different site sizes and types, to meet five-year demand for employment growth in the Central City,
industrial areas, campus institutions, and neighborhood business districts.
Policy 6.18. Evaluate land needs. Update the Economic Opportunities Analysis and short-term land
supply strategies every five to seven years.
Policy 6.19. Corporate headquarters. Provide land opportunities for development of corporate
headquarters campuses in locations with suitable transportation facilities.
216. Finding: Policies 6.17 through 6.19 provide direction regarding land supply and corporate
headquarters in employment areas. The BHD amendments do not change the comprehensive
plan designations of any currently designated employment lands. Therefore, there is no adverse
impact to employment land supply.
Traded sector competitiveness
Policy 6.20. Traded sector competitiveness. Align plans and investments with efforts to improve the
city and regional business environment for traded sector and export growth. Participate in regional
and statewide initiatives.
Policy 6.21. Traded sector diversity. Encourage partnerships to foster the growth, small business
vitality, and diversity of traded sectors.
Policy 6.22. Clusters. Align plans and investments with efforts that direct strategic business
development resources to enhance the competitiveness of businesses in traded sector clusters.
Policy 6.23. Trade and freight hub. Encourage investment in transportation systems and services that
will retain and expand Portland’s competitive position as a West Coast trade gateway and freight
distribution hub.
Policy 6.24. Traded sector land supply. Foster traded sector retention, growth, and competitive
advantages in industrial districts and the Central City. Recognize the concentration of traded-sector
businesses in these districts.
Policy 6.25. Import substitution. Encourage local goods production and service delivery that
substitute for imports and help keep the money Portlanders earn in the local economy.
Policy 6.26. Business opportunities in urban innovation. Strive to have Portland’s built environment,
businesses, and infrastructure systems showcase examples of best practices of innovation and
sustainability.
217. Finding: Policies 6.20 through 6.26 provide direction regarding traded sector competitiveness.
The BHD amendments address housing and do not adversely impact the city and regional
business climate. These policies do not apply.
Equitable household prosperity
Policy 6.27. Income self-sufficiency. Expand access to self-sufficient wage levels and career ladders for
low-income people by maintaining an adequate and viable supply of employment land and public
facilities to support and expand opportunities in Portland for middle- and high-wage jobs that do not
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

require a 4-year college degree.
6.27.a. Support the role of industrial districts as a leading source of middle-wage jobs that do not
require a 4-year college degree and as a major source of wage-disparity reduction for under-
served and under-represented communities.
6.27.b. Evaluate and limit negative impacts of plans and investments on middle and high wage job
creation and retention.
218. Finding: The BHD amendments address housing and do not adversely impact employment land or
public facilities. The changes provide more flexibility for a greater diversity of housing types and
expands housing options close to services and transit that will help retain and attract skilled
workers.
Policy 6.28. East Portland job growth. Improve opportunities for East Portland to grow as a business
destination and source of living wage jobs.
219. Finding: The BHD amendments address the multi-dwelling zones and do not impact employment
land or job growth in East Portland.
Policy 6.29. Poverty reduction. Encourage investment in, and alignment of, poverty-reduction efforts
that address economic development, land use, transportation, housing, social services, public health,
community development, and workforce development.
220. Finding:  By increasing the range of available housing types in BHD zones, housing units are
available at a wider spectrum of prices across a broader geographic reach of the city. Reducing
housing costs and having more households able to reside closer to active transportation options
improves public health outcomes, increases household stability, and offers households greater
means to accumulate savings.
Policy 6.30. Disparity reduction. Encourage investment in, and alignment of, public efforts to reduce
racial, ethnic, and disability-related disparities in income and employment opportunity.
Policy 6.31. Minority-owned, woman-owned and emerging small business (MWESB) assistance.
Ensure that plans and investments improve access to contracting opportunities for minority-owned,
woman-owned, and emerging small businesses.
221. Finding: Policies 6.30 and 6.31 provide direction regarding equity-related approaches to
employment and small business development. The BHD amendments address housing and do not
adversely impact employment or business development. These policies do not apply.
Policy 6.32. Urban renewal plans. Encourage urban renewal plans to primarily benefit existing
residents and businesses within the urban renewal area through:
 Revitalization of neighborhoods.
 Expansion of housing choices.
 Creation of business and job opportunities.
 Provision of transportation linkages.
 Protection of residents and businesses from the threats posed by gentrification and
displacement.
 The creation and enhancement of those features which improve the quality of life within the
urban renewal area.
222. Finding: The BHD amendments do not address urban renewal plans. This policy does not apply.

Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Central City
Policy 6.33. Central City. Improve the Central City’s regional share of employment and continue its
growth as the unique center of both the city and the region for innovation and exchange through
commerce, employment, arts, culture, entertainment, tourism, education, and government.
Policy 6.34. Central City industrial districts. Protect and facilitate the long-term success of Central City
industrial districts, while supporting their evolution into places with a broad mix of businesses with
high employment densities.
Policy 6.35. Innovation districts. Provide for expanding campus institutions in the Central City and
Marquam Hill, and encourage business development that builds on their research and development
strengths.
223. Finding:  Policies 6.33 through 6.35 provide direction regarding economic development in the
Central City. The BHD amendments include comprehensive plan map and zoning map
amendments to rezone a three-block area in the Goose Hollow subdistrict of the Central City Plan
District. This area is currently zoned (RH) for residential use, therefore these changes will not
affect the employment capacity of the Central City.
Industrial and employment districts
Policy 6.36. Industrial land. Provide industrial land that encourages industrial business retention,
growth, and traded sector competitiveness as a West Coast trade and freight hub, a regional center of
diverse manufacturing, and a widely-accessible base of family-wage jobs, particularly for under-served
and under-represented people.
Policy 6.37. Industrial sanctuaries. Protect industrial land as industrial sanctuaries identified on the
Comprehensive Plan Map primarily for manufacturing and distribution uses and to encourage the
growth of industrial activities in the city.
Policy 6.38. Prime industrial land retention. Protect the multimodal freight-hub industrial districts at
the Portland Harbor, Columbia Corridor, and Brooklyn Yard as prime industrial land that is prioritized
for long-term retention.
6.38.a. Protect prime industrial lands from quasi-judicial Comprehensive Plan Map amendments
that convert prime industrial land to non-industrial uses, and consider the potential for other map
amendments  to otherwise diminish the economic competitiveness or viability of prime industrial
land.
6.38.b. Limit conversion of prime industrial land through land use plans, regulations, or public land
acquisition for non-industrial uses, especially land that can be used by river-dependent and river-
related industrial uses.
6.38.c. Limit regulatory impacts on the capacity, affordability, and viability of industrial uses in the
prime industrial area while ensuring environmental resources are also protected.
6.38.d. Strive to offset the reduction of development capacity as needed, with additional prime
industrial capacity that includes consideration of comparable site characteristics. Offsets may
include but are not limited to additional brownfield remediation, industrial use intensification,
strategic investments, and other innovative tools and partnerships that increase industrial
utilization of industrial land.
6.38.e. Protect prime industrial land for siting of parks, schools, large-format places of assembly,
and large-format retail sales.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

6.38.f. Promote efficient use of freight hub infrastructure and prime industrial land by limiting
non-industrial uses that do not need to be in the prime industrial area.
Policy 6.39. Harbor access lands. Limit use of harbor access lands to river- or rail-dependent or related
industrial land uses due to the unique and necessary infrastructure and site characteristics of harbor
access lands for river-dependent industrial uses.
Policy 6.40. Portland Harbor Superfund Site. Take a leadership role to facilitate a cleanup of the
Portland Harbor that moves forward as quickly as possible and that allocates cleanup costs fairly and
equitably. Encourage a science-based and cost-effective cleanup solution that facilitates re-use of land
for river- or rail-dependent or related industrial uses.
Policy 6.41. Multimodal freight corridors. Encourage freight-oriented industrial development to
locate where it can maximize the use of and support reinvestment in multimodal freight corridors.
Policy 6.42. Columbia East. Provide a mix of industrial and limited business park development in
Columbia East (east of 82nd Avenue) that expand employment opportunities supported by proximity
to Portland International Airport and multimodal freight access.
Policy 6.43. Dispersed employment areas. Provide small, dispersed employment areas for a flexible
and affordable mix of office, creative services, small-scale manufacturing, traded sector and
distribution, and other small-format light industrial and commercial uses with access to nearby
freeways or truck streets.
Policy 6.44. Industrial land use intensification. Encourage reinvestment in, and intensification of,
industrial land use, as measured by output and throughput per acre.
Policy 6.45. Industrial brownfield redevelopment. Provide incentives, investments, technical
assistance and other direct support to overcome financial-feasibility gaps to enable remediation and
redevelopment of brownfields for industrial growth.
Policy 6.46. Impact analysis. Evaluate and monitor the impacts on industrial land capacity that may
result from land use plans, regulations, public land acquisition, public facility development, and other
public actions to protect and preserve existing industrial lands.
Policy 6.47. Clean, safe, and green. Encourage improvements to the cleanliness, safety, and ecological
performance of industrial development and freight corridors by facilitating adoption of market
feasible new technology and design.
Policy 6.48. Fossil fuel distribution. Limit fossil fuels distribution and storage facilities to those
necessary to serve the regional market.
Policy 6.49. Industrial growth and watershed health. Facilitate concurrent strategies to protect and
improve industrial capacity and watershed health in the Portland Harbor and Columbia Corridor areas.
Policy 6.50. District expansion. Provide opportunities for expansion of industrial areas based on
evaluation of forecasted need and the ability to meet environmental, social, economic, and other
goals.
Policy 6.51. Golf course reuse and redevelopment. Facilitate a mix of industrial, natural resource, and
public open space uses on privately-owned golf course sites in the Columbia Corridor that property
owners make available for reuse.
Policy 6.52. Residential and commercial reuse. Facilitate compatible industrial or employment
redevelopment on residential or commercial sites that become available for reuse if the site is in or
near prime industrial areas, and near a freeway or on a freight street.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy 6.53. Mitigation banks. Facilitate industrial site development by promoting and allowing
environmental mitigation banks that serve industrial land uses on prime industrial land.
Policy 6.54. Neighborhood buffers. Maintain and enhance major natural areas, open spaces, and
constructed features as boundaries and buffers for the Portland Harbor and Columbia Corridor
industrial areas.
Policy 6.55. Neighborhood park use. Allow neighborhood park development within industrial zones
where needed to provide adequate park service within one-half mile of every resident.
224. Finding: Policies 6.36 through 6.55 provide direction regarding industrial and employment
districts. The BHD amendments do not change the comprehensive plan designations or
regulations affecting any currently designated industrial or employment lands. Therefore, there is
no impact to the development capacity of the City’s industrial and employment districts.
Campus institutions
Policy 6.56. Campus institutions. Provide for the stability and growth of Portland’s major campus
institutions as essential service providers, centers of innovation, workforce development resources,
and major employers.
Policy 6.57. Campus land use. Provide for major campus institutions as a type of employment land,
allowing uses typically associated with health care and higher education institutions. Coordinate with
institutions in changing campus zoning to provide land supply that is practical for development and
intended uses.
Policy 6.58. Development impacts. Protect the livability of surrounding neighborhoods through
adequate infrastructure and campus development standards that foster suitable density and
attractive campus design. Minimize off-site impacts in collaboration with institutions and neighbors,
especially to reduce automobile traffic and parking impacts.
Policy 6.59. Community amenities and services. Encourage campus development that provides
amenities and services to surrounding neighborhoods, emphasizing the role of campuses as centers of
community activity.
Policy 6.60. Campus edges. Provide for context-sensitive, transitional uses, and development at the
edges of campus institutions to enhance their integration into surrounding neighborhoods, including
mixed-use and neighborhood-serving commercial uses where appropriate.
Policy 6.61. Satellite facilities. Encourage opportunities for expansion of uses, not integral to campus
functions, to locate in centers and corridors to support their economic vitality.
225. Finding:  Policies 6.56 through 6.61 provide direction regarding campus institutions. There are no
BHD zones with a campus institution land use designation. These policies do not apply.
Neighborhood business districts
Policy 6.62. Neighborhood business districts. Provide for the growth, economic equity, and vitality of
neighborhood business districts.
Policy 6.63. District function. Enhance the function of neighborhood business districts as a foundation
of neighborhood livability.
Policy 6.64. Small, independent businesses. Facilitate the retention and growth of small and locally-
owned businesses.
Policy 6.65. Home-based businesses. Encourage and expand allowances for small, low-impact home
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

based businesses in residential areas, including office or personal service uses with infrequent or by-
appointment customer or client visits to the site. Allow a limited number of employees, within the
scale of activity typical in residential areas. Allow home-based businesses on sites with accessory
dwelling units.
Policy 6.66. Neighborhood-serving business. Provide for neighborhood business districts and small
commercial nodes in areas between centers to expand local access to goods and services. Allow nodes
of small-scale neighborhood-serving commercial uses in large planned developments and as a ground
floor use in high density residential areas.
Policy 6.67. Retail development. Provide for a competitive supply of retail sites that support the wide
range of consumer needs for convenience, affordability, accessibility, and diversity of goods and
services, especially in under-served areas of Portland.
Policy 6.68. Investment priority. Prioritize commercial revitalization investments in neighborhoods
that serve communities with limited access to goods and services.
Policy 6.69. Non-conforming neighborhood business uses. Limit non-conforming uses to reduce
adverse impacts on nearby residential uses while avoiding displacement of existing neighborhood
businesses.
Policy 6.70. Involuntary commercial displacement. Evaluate plans and investments for their impact
on existing businesses.
6.70.a. Limit involuntary commercial displacement in areas at risk of gentrification, and
incorporate tools to reduce the cost burden of rapid neighborhood change on small business
owners vulnerable to displacement.
6.70.b. Encourage the preservation and creation of affordable neighborhood commercial space to
support a broad range of small business owners.
Policy 6.71. Temporary and informal markets and structures. Acknowledge and support the role that
temporary markets (farmer’s markets, craft markets, flea markets, etc.) and other temporary or
mobile-vending structures play in enabling startup business activity. Also, acknowledge that
temporary uses may ultimately be replaced by more permanent development and uses.
Policy 6.72. Community economic development. Encourage collaborative approaches to align land
use and neighborhood economic development for residents and business owners to better connect
and compete in the regional economy.
6.72.a. Encourage broad-based community coalitions to implement land use and economic
development objectives and programs.
6.72.b. Enhance opportunities for cooperation and partnerships between public and private
entities that promote economic vitality in communities most disconnected from the regional
economy.
6.72.c. Encourage cooperative efforts by area businesses, Business Associations, and
Neighborhood Associations to work together on commercial revitalization efforts, sustainability
initiatives, and transportation demand management.
Policy 6.73. Centers. Encourage concentrations of commercial services and employment opportunities
in centers.
6.73.a. Encourage a broad range of neighborhood commercial services in centers to help residents
and others in the area meet daily needs and/or serve as neighborhood gathering places.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

6.73.b. Encourage the retention and further development of grocery stores and local markets as
essential elements of centers.
6.73.c. Enhance opportunities for services and activities in centers that are responsive to the
needs of the populations and cultural groups of the surrounding area.
6.73.d. Require ground-level building spaces in core areas of centers accommodate commercial or
other street-activating uses and services.
6.73.e. Encourage employment opportunities as a key function of centers, including connections
between centers, institutions, and other major employers to reinforce their roles as vibrant
centers of activity.
226. Finding: Policies 6.62 through 6.73 provide direction regarding neighborhood districts, which
primarily have commercial/mixed use zoning. The BHD map amendments do not affect the base
land uses or development capacity in the commercial/mixed-use zones. The BHD zoning code
amendments expand the opportunity for small-scale commercial uses in the multi-dwelling zones
along civic and neighborhood corridors, which can provide for a wider range of retail sites to
support small businesses. In addition, providing a wider variety of housing to suit a broader
segment of the population will help retain and attract skilled workers. The changes also expand
the affordable housing bonus to mixed use zoning designations within historic districts, which
could encourage more mixed use development in these districts.

Chapter 7: Environmental and Watershed Health
Goal 7.A: Climate. Carbon emissions are reduced to 50 percent below 1990 levels by 2035.
227. Finding:  One of the key strategies to reduce carbon emissions is to reduce emissions related to
transportation by reducing reliance on the automobile by encouraging housing near multi-modal
transportation alternatives, such as transit service and bikeways. Eighty (80) percent of the multi-
dwelling zoned areas are within ¼ mile of a designated center, corridor with frequent service
transit, high capacity transit stations, or within the Inner Ring neighborhoods. According to
studies conducted by Oregon DEQ, “Reducing home size is among the best tier of options for
reducing waste generation in the Oregon housing sector, while simultaneously achieving a large
environmental benefit across many categories of impact…Reduction in home size is a significant
leverage point for impact reduction [including non-renewable energy use] and may be a more
effective measure than achieving minimum levels of ‘green certification’”. The BHD amendments
will expand the range of housing types, especially smaller units, that are allowed in these areas,
which will contribute to reducing Portland’s carbon emissions.
Goal 7.B: Healthy watersheds and environment. Ecosystem services and ecosystem functions are
maintained and watershed conditions have improved over time, supporting public health and safety,
environmental quality, fish and wildlife, cultural values, economic prosperity, and the intrinsic value of
nature.
228. Finding:  The BHD amendments allow alternatives to conventional landscaping, limit large surface
parking lots and asphalt paving, reduce off street parking requirements that will decrease
effective impervious area, which will limit runoff and maintain ecosystem functions.
Goal 7.C: Resilience. Portland’s built and natural environments function in complementary ways and
are resilient in the face of climate change and natural hazards.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

229. Finding: The BHD amendments support this principle by helping to focus growth in and around
centers and corridors to avoid sensitive natural areas and natural hazards.  Only 12 percent of the
multi-dwelling zoned areas are located in natural hazard areas. The BHD amendments do not
change City programs for flood management, and erosion and sediment control (i.e., City Title 10
Erosion Control, and the balanced cut and fill requirements of City Title 24).
These changes help achieve this goal by contributing to complete neighborhoods that support
neighborhood resilience and a low-carbon economy, supporting a diversity of housing options
responsive to changing demographics and household needs, and limiting urban heat islands that
will be an increasing threat in a warming climate.
Goal 7.D: Environmental equity. All Portlanders have access to clean air and water, can experience
nature in their daily lives, and benefit from development designed to lessen the impacts of natural
hazards and environmental contamination.
230. Finding: The BHD amendments furthers this goal by providing incentives for tree preservation,
requiring outdoors spaces that expand opportunities for trees and other green elements, limiting
paved surfaces, supporting the use of eco roofs and other green infrastructure, and by expanding
options for the development of energy-efficient compact housing in locations supportive of low-
carbon transportation options (such as transit, walking, and bicycling).
Goal 7.E: Community stewardship. Portlanders actively participate in efforts to maintain and improve
the environment, including watershed health.
231. Finding:  This goal is focused on community involvement in improving the environment. Because
the BHD amendments primarily affect the zoning code and do not affect non-regulatory
implementation approaches, these policies do not apply.
Improving environmental quality and resilience
Policy 7.1. Environmental quality. Protect or support efforts to protect air, water, and soil quality, and
associated benefits to public and ecological health and safety, through plans and investments.
232. Finding: Environmental zones protect resources and functional values that have been identified by
the City as providing benefits to the public. Only three percent of the multi-dwelling zoned areas
have significant natural resources. No changes to the environmental or greenway overlay zones are
proposed as part of this project, therefore the natural resource values and functions will be
improved or sustained.
Policy 7.2. Environmental equity. Prevent or reduce adverse environment-related disparities affecting
under-served and under-represented communities through plans and investments. This includes
addressing disparities relating to air and water quality, natural hazards, contamination, climate
change, and access to nature.
233. Finding: Environmental zones, along with other programs for flood management, and erosion and
sediment control (i.e., City Title 10 Erosion Control, and the balanced cut and fill requirements of
City Title 24) protect resources and functional values that have been identified by the City as
providing benefits to the public, including in areas with under-served and underrepresented
communities. These are unchanged with the BHD amendments.
Policy 7.3. Ecosystem services. Consider the benefits provided by healthy ecosystems that contribute
to the livability and economic health of the city.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

234. Finding:  The BHD amendments allow alternatives to conventional landscaping, limit large surface
parking lots and asphalt paving, reduce off street parking requirements that will decrease
effective impervious area, which will limit runoff and maintain ecosystem functions.
Policy 7.4. Climate change. Update and implement strategies to reduce carbon emissions and impacts
and increase resilience through plans and investments and public education.
7.4.a. Carbon sequestration. Enhance the capacity of Portland’s urban forest, soils, wetlands, and
other water bodies to serve as carbon reserves.
7.4.b. Climate adaptation and resilience. Enhance the ability of rivers, streams, wetlands,
floodplains, urban forest, habitats, and wildlife to limit and adapt to climate-exacerbated flooding,
landslides, wildfire, and urban heat island effects.
235. Finding: One of the key strategies to reduce carbon emissions is to reduce emissions related to
transportation by reducing reliance on the automobile by encouraging housing near multi-modal
transportation alternatives, such as transit service and bikeways. Eighty (80) percent of the multi-
dwelling zoned areas are within ¼ mile of a designated center, corridor with frequent service
transit, high capacity transit stations, or within the Inner Ring neighborhoods. According to
studies conducted by Oregon DEQ, “Reducing home size is among the best tier of options for
reducing waste generation in the Oregon housing sector, while simultaneously achieving a large
environmental benefit across many categories of impact…Reduction in home size is a significant
leverage point for impact reduction [including non-renewable energy use] and may be a more
effective measure than achieving minimum levels of ‘green certification’”. The BHD amendments
will expand the range of housing types, especially smaller units, that are allowed in these areas,
which will contribute to reducing Portland’s carbon emissions.
The BHD amendments reduce heat island effects by providing incentives for tree preservation,
requiring outdoors spaces that expand opportunities for trees and other green elements, limiting
paved surfaces, supporting the use of eco roofs and other green infrastructure, and by expanding
options for the development of energy-efficient compact housing in locations supportive of low-
carbon transportation options (such as transit, walking, and bicycling).
Policy 7.5. Air quality. Improve, or support efforts to improve, air quality through plans and
investments, including reducing exposure to air toxics, criteria pollutants, and urban heat island
effects. Consider the impacts of air quality on the health of all Portlanders.
236. Finding:  The BHD amendments help improve air quality by providing incentives for tree
preservation, requiring outdoors spaces that expand opportunities for trees and other green
elements, limiting paved surfaces, supporting the use of eco roofs and other green infrastructure,
and by expanding options for the development of housing in locations supportive of low-carbon
transportation options (such as transit, walking, and bicycling). Eighty-six (86) percent of multi-
dwelling areas are within ¼-mile of transit service.
Policy 7.6. Hydrology. Through plans and investments, improve or support efforts to improve
watershed hydrology to achieve more natural flow and enhance conveyance and storage capacity in
rivers, streams, floodplains, wetlands, and aquifers. Minimize impacts from development and
associated impervious surfaces, especially in areas with poorly-infiltrating soils and limited public
stormwater discharge points, and encourage restoration of degraded hydrologic functions.
Policy 7.7. Water quality. Improve, or support efforts to improve, water quality in rivers, streams,
floodplains, groundwater, and wetlands through land use plans and investments, to address water
quality issues including toxics, bacteria, temperature, metals, and sediment pollution. Consider the
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

impacts of water quality on the health of all Portlanders.
237. Finding:  Policies 7.6 and 7.7 provide direction regarding hydrology and water quality. The BHD
amendments help improve water quality by providing incentives for tree preservation, requiring
outdoors spaces that expand opportunities for trees and other green elements, limiting paved
surfaces, supporting the use of eco roofs and other green infrastructure that will decrease
effective impervious area, which will limit runoff and maintain ecosystem functions.
Policy 7.8. Biodiversity. Strive to achieve and maintain self-sustaining populations of native species,
including native plants, native resident and migratory fish and wildlife species, at-risk species, and
beneficial insects (such as pollinators) through plans and investments.
Policy 7.9. Habitat and biological communities. Ensure that plans and investments are consistent with
and advance efforts to improve, or support efforts to improve fish and wildlife habitat and biological
communities. Use plans and investments to enhance the diversity, quantity, and quality of habitats
habitat corridors, and especially habitats that:
 Are rare or declining.
 Support at-risk plant and animal species and communities.
 Support recovery of species under the Endangered Species Act, and prevent new listings.
 Provide culturally important food sources, including those associated with Native American
fishing rights.
Policy 7.10. Habitat connectivity. Improve or support efforts to improve terrestrial and aquatic
habitat connectivity for fish and wildlife by using plans and investments, to:
 Prevent and repair habitat fragmentation.
 Improve habitat quality.
 Weave habitat into sites as new development occurs.
 Enhance or create habitat corridors that allow fish and wildlife to safely access and move
through and between habitat areas.
 Promote restoration and protection of floodplains.
238. Finding: Policies 7.8 through 7.10 provide direction regarding biodiversity and habitat. Only three
percent of the multi-dwelling zoned areas have significant natural resources. The BHD
amendments do not change the environmental zones and other programs for flood
management, and erosion and sediment control (i.e., City Title 10 Erosion Control, and the
balanced cut and fill requirements of City Title 24) protect resources and functional values that
have been identified by the City as providing benefits to the public, including in areas with under-
served and underrepresented communities. BHD amendments that provide FAR transfer
allowances for sites where large trees are preserved and that expand requirements for outdoor
spaces are consistent with these policies.
Policy 7.11. Urban forest. Improve, or support efforts to improve the quantity, quality, and equitable
distribution of Portland’s urban forest through plans and investments.
7.11.a. Tree preservation. Require or encourage preservation of large healthy trees, native trees
and vegetation, tree groves, and forested areas.
7.11.b. Urban forest diversity. Coordinate plans and investments with efforts to improve tree
species diversity and age diversity.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

7.11.c. Tree canopy. Support progress toward meeting City tree canopy targets.
7.11.d. Tree planting. Invest in tree planting and maintenance, especially in low-canopy areas,
neighborhoods with under-served or under-represented communities, and within and near urban
habitat corridors.
7.11.e. Vegetation in natural resource areas. Require native trees and vegetation in significant
natural resource areas.
7.11.f. Resilient urban forest. Encourage planting of Pacific Northwest hardy and climate change
resilient native trees and vegetation generally, and especially in urban habitat corridors.
7.11.g. Trees in land use planning. Identify priority areas for tree preservation and planting in land
use plans.
7.11.h. Managing wildfire risk. Address wildfire hazard risks and management priorities through
plans and investments.
239. Finding:  BHD amendments that support tree preservation through transfers of development
rights, expand requirements for usable outdoor space, require shared common areas on large
sites and deep rear setbacks in East Portland are consistent with this policy, as are amendments
that  place limits on large parking lots and that reduce parking requirements, which provides
opportunities for space to expand and improve the urban forest.
Policy 7.12. Invasive species. Prevent the spread of invasive plants, and support efforts to reduce the
impacts of invasive plants, animals, and insects, through plans, investments, and education.
Policy 7.13. Soils. Coordinate plans and investments with programs that address human-induced soil
loss, erosion, contamination, or other impairments to soil quality and function.
240. Finding:  Policies 7.12 and 7.13 provide direction regarding invasive species and soil quality. The
BHD amendments do not affect programs and investments related to these policies.
Policy 7.14. Natural hazards. Prevent development-related degradation of natural systems and
associated increases in landslide, wildfire, flooding, and earthquake risks.
241. Finding: The BHD amendments reduce the risk from these hazards because City programs for
flood management, and erosion and sediment control (Title 10 Erosion Control and the balanced
cut and fill requirements of City Title 24), are unchanged by these amendments.
Policy 7.15. Brownfield remediation. Improve environmental quality and watershed health by
promoting and facilitating brownfield remediation and redevelopment that incorporates ecological
site design and resource enhancement.
Policy 7.16. Adaptive management. Evaluate trends in watershed and environmental health using
current monitoring data and information to guide and support improvements in the effectiveness of
City plans and investments.
Policy 7.17. Restoration partnerships. Coordinate plans and investments with other jurisdictions, air
and water quality regulators, watershed councils, soil and water conservation districts, Sovereign
nations, and community organizations and groups including under-served and under-represented
communities, to optimize the benefits, distribution, and cost-effectiveness of watershed restoration
and enhancement efforts.
Policy 7.18. Community stewardship. Encourage voluntary cooperation between property owners,
community organizations, and public agencies to restore or re-create habitat on their property,
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

including removing invasive plants and planting native species.
242. Finding:  Policies 7.15 through 7.18 provide direction regarding non-regulatory approaches to
improving environmental quality. Because the BHD amendments primarily affect the zoning code
and do not affect non-regulatory implementation approaches, these policies do not apply.
Planning for natural resource protection
Policy 7.19. Natural resource protection. Protect the quantity, quality, and function of significant
natural resources identified in the City’s natural resource inventory, including:
 Rivers, streams, sloughs, and drainageways.
 Floodplains.
 Riparian corridors.
 Wetlands.
 Groundwater.
 Native and other beneficial vegetation species and communities.
 Aquatic and terrestrial habitats, including special habitats or habitats of concern, large anchor
habitats, habitat complexes and corridors, rare and declining habitats such as wetlands, native
oak, bottomland hardwood forest, grassland habitat, shallow water habitat, and habitats that
support special-status or at-risk plant and wildlife species.
 Other resources identified in natural resource inventories.
Policy 7.20. Natural resource inventory. Maintain an up-to-date inventory by identifying the location
and evaluating the relative quantity and quality of natural resources.
Policy 7.21. Environmental plans and regulations. Maintain up-to-date environmental protection
plans and regulations that specify the significant natural resources to be protected and the types of
protections to be applied, based on the best data and science available and on an evaluation of
cumulative environmental, social, and economic impacts and tradeoffs. See Figure 7-2 — Adopted
Environmental Plans.
7.21.a. Improve the effectiveness of environmental protection plans and regulations to protect
and encourage enhancement of ecological functions and ecosystem services.
7.21.b. Prevent or reduce disproportionate environmental impacts on under-served and under-
represented communities.
Policy 7.22. Land acquisition priorities and coordination. Maintain a land acquisition program as a
tool to protect and support natural resources and their functions. Coordinate land acquisition with the
programs of City bureaus and other agencies and organizations.
243. Finding:  Policies 7.19 through 7.22 provide direction regarding planning for natural resource
protection. The 2035 Comprehensive Plan background documents included an updated Natural
Resources Inventory (NRI), which was adopted (Ordinance 185657) and acknowledged by LCDC
on June 13, 2014. The NRI identified the location, quantity, and quality of all significant natural
resources as required by the inventory provisions of Statewide Planning Goal 5. From the set of
all significant resources, high and medium quality resources, ranked primarily from riparian
corridor and wildlife habitat considerations, were identified to comply with the inventory
requirements of Title 13 of Metro’s Urban Growth Management Functional Plan.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Environmental zones protect resources and functional values that have been identified by the
City as providing benefits to the public. Only three percent of the multi-dwelling zoned areas have
environmental overlay zones. The BHD amendments do not change the environmental overlay
zone mapping.
Protecting natural resources in development situations
Policy 7.23. Impact evaluation. Evaluate the potential adverse impacts of proposed development on
significant natural resources, their functions, and the ecosystem services they provide to inform and
guide development design and mitigation consistent with policies 7.24-7.26. and other relevant
Comprehensive Plan policies.
Policy 7.24. Regulatory hierarchy: avoid, minimize, mitigate. Maintain regulations requiring that the
potential adverse impacts of new development on significant natural resources and their functions
first be avoided where practicable, then minimized, then lastly, mitigated.
Policy 7.25. Mitigation effectiveness. Require that mitigation approaches compensate fully for
adverse impacts on locally and regionally significant natural resources and functions. Require
mitigation to be located as close to the impact as possible. Mitigation must also take place within the
same watershed or portion of the watershed that is within the Portland Urban Services Boundary,
unless mitigating outside of these areas will provide a greater local ecological benefit. Mitigation will
be subject to the following preference hierarchy:
 On the site of the resource subject to impact with the same kind of resource; if that is not
possible, then
 Off-site with the same kind of resource; if that is not possible, then
 On-site with a different kind of resource; if that is not possible, then
 Off-site with a different kind of resource.
Policy 7.26. Improving environmental conditions through development. Encourage ecological site
design, site enhancement, or other tools to improve ecological functions and ecosystem services in
conjunction with new development and alterations to existing development.
244. Policies 7.19 through 7.22 provide direction regarding the protection of significant natural
resources in development situations. The City’s environmental overlay zones (33.430) are the
regulations that control development in order to protect the resources and functional values
while allowing environmentally sensitive urban development. Only three percent of the multi-
dwelling zoned areas have environmental overlay zones. The BHD amendments do not change
the environmental overlay zone mapping.
Aggregate resources
Policy 7.27. Aggregate resource protection. Protect aggregate resource sites for current and future
use where there are no major conflicts with urban needs, or where these conflicts may be resolved.
Policy 7.28. Aggregate resource development. When aggregate resources are developed, ensure that
development minimizes adverse environmental impacts and impacts on adjacent land uses.
Policy 7.29. Mining site reclamation. Ensure that the reclamation of mining sites protects public
health and safety, protects fish and wildlife (including at-risk species), enhances or restores habitat
(including rare and declining habitat types), restores adequate watershed conditions and functions on
the site, and is compatible with the surrounding land uses and conditions of nearby land.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

245. Finding:  Policies 7.27 through 7.29 provide direction regarding aggregate resources. The BHD
amendments address housing and do not impact aggregate resources or mine sites. These policies
do not apply.
Columbia River Watershed
Policy 7.30. In-water habitat. Enhance in-water habitat for native fish and wildlife, particularly in the
Oregon Slough and near-shore environments along the Columbia River.
Policy 7.31. Sensitive habitats. Enhance grassland, beach, riverbanks, wetlands, bottomland forests,
shallow water habitats, and other key habitats for wildlife traveling along the Columbia River
migratory corridor, while continuing to manage the levees and floodplain for flood control.
 Policy 7.32. River-dependent and river-related uses. Maintain plans and regulations that recognize
the needs of river-dependent and river-related uses while also supporting ecologically-sensitive site
design and practices.
246. Finding:  Policies 7.30 through 7.32 provide direction regarding habitat and river-related uses in the
Columbia River Watershed. The BHD amendments do not affect the environmental zones that
apply in this area, or other regulations or programs related to habitat enhancement, or river-
dependent or river-related uses.
Willamette River Watershed
Policy 7.33. Fish habitat. Provide adequate intervals of ecologically-functional shallow-water habitat
for native fish along the entire length of the Willamette River within the city, and at the confluences of
its tributaries.
Policy 7.34. Stream connectivity. Improve stream connectivity between the Willamette River and its
tributaries.
Policy 7.35. River bank conditions. Preserve existing river bank habitat and encourage the
rehabilitation of river bank sections that have been significantly altered due to development with
more fish and wildlife friendly riverbank conditions.
Policy 7.36. South Reach ecological complex. Enhance habitat quality and connections between Ross
Island, Oaks Bottom, and riverfront parks and natural areas south of the Central City, to enhance the
area as a functioning ecological complex.
Policy 7.37. Contaminated sites. Promote and support programs that facilitate the cleanup, reuse,
and restoration of the Portland Harbor Superfund site and other contaminated upland sites.
Policy 7.38. Sensitive habitats. Protect and enhance grasslands, beaches, floodplains, wetlands,
remnant native oak, bottomland hardwood forest, and other key habitats for native wildlife including
shorebirds, waterfowl, and species that migrate along the Pacific Flyway and the Willamette River
corridor.
Policy 7.39. Riparian corridors. Increase the width and quality of vegetated Riparian buffers along the
Willamette River.
Policy 7.40. Connected upland and river habitats. Enhance habitat quality and connectivity between
the Willamette riverfront, the Willamette’s floodplain, and upland natural resource areas.
Policy 7.41. River-dependent and river-related uses. Develop and maintain plans and regulations that
recognize the needs of river-dependent and river-related uses, while also supporting ecologically-
sensitive site design and practices.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy 7.42. Forest Park. Enhance Forest Park as an anchor habitat and recreational resource.
247. Finding:  Policies 7.33 through 7.42 provide direction regarding habitat and river-related uses in the
Willamette River Watershed. The BHD amendments do not affect the Environmental, Greenway, or
River overlay zones that apply in this area, or other regulations or programs related to habitat
enhancement, or river-dependent or river-related uses.
Columbia Slough Watershed
Policy 7.43. Fish passage. Restore in-stream habitat and improve fish passage within the Columbia
Slough, including for salmonids in the lower slough.
Policy 7.44. Flow constriction removal. Reduce constriction, such as culverts, in the slough channels,
to improve the flow of water and water quality.
Policy 7.45. Riparian corridors. Increase the width, quality, and native plant diversity of vegetated
riparian buffers along Columbia Slough channels and other drainageways within the watershed, while
also managing the slough for
flood control.
Policy 7.46. Sensitive habitats. Enhance grasslands and wetland habitats in the Columbia Slough, such
as those found in the Smith and Bybee Lakes and at the St. Johns Landfill site, to provide habitat for
sensitive species, and for wildlife traveling along the Columbia and Willamette river migratory
corridors.
Policy 7.47. Connected rivers habitats. Enhance upland habitat connections to the Willamette and
Columbia rivers.
Policy 7.48. Contaminated sites. Ensure that plans and investments are consistent with and advance
programs that facilitate the cleanup, reuse, and restoration of contaminated sites that are adjacent, or
that discharge stormwater, to the Columbia Slough.
Policy 7.49. Portland International Airport. Protect, restore, and enhance natural resources and
functions in the Portland International Airport plan district, as identified in Portland International
Airport/Middle Columbia Slough Natural Resources Inventory. Accomplish this through regulations,
voluntary strategies, and the implementation of special development standards.
248. Finding:  Policies 7.43 through 7.49 provide direction regarding the environment and watershed
health in the Columbia Slough Watershed. The BHD amendments do not affect the environmental
zones that apply in this area, or other regulations or programs related to habitat or watershed
health.
Fanno and Tryon Creek Watersheds
Policy 7.50. Stream connectivity. Encourage the daylighting of piped portions of Tryon and Fanno
creeks and their tributaries.
Policy 7.51. Riparian and habitat corridors. Protect and enhance riparian habitat quality and
connectivity along Tryon and Fanno creeks and their tributaries. Enhance connections between
riparian areas, parks, anchor habitats, and areas with significant tree canopy. Enhance in-stream and
upland habitat connections between Tryon Creek State Natural Area and the Willamette River.
Policy 7.52. Reduced hazard risks. Reduce the risks of landslides and streambank erosion by
protecting trees and vegetation that absorb stormwater, especially in areas with steep slopes or
limited access to stormwater infrastructure.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

249. Finding:  Policies 7.50 through 7.52 provide direction regarding habitat and river-related uses in the
Fanno and Tryon Creek Watersheds. The BHD amendments do not affect the environmental zones
that apply in this area, or other regulations or programs related to habitat or watershed health.
Johnson Creek Watershed
Policy 7.53. In-stream and riparian habitat. Enhance in-stream and riparian habitat and improve fish
passage for salmonids along Johnson Creek and its tributaries.
Policy 7.54. Floodplain restoration. Enhance Johnson Creek floodplain functions to increase flood-
storage capacity, improve water quality, and enhance fish and wildlife habitat.
Policy 7.55. Connected floodplains, springs, and wetlands. Enhance hydrologic and habitat
connectivity between the Johnson Creek floodplain and its springs and wetlands.
Policy 7.56. Reduced natural hazards. Reduce the risks of landslides, streambank erosion and
downstream flooding by protecting seeps, springs, trees, vegetation, and soils that absorb stormwater
in the East Buttes.
Policy 7.57. Greenspace network. Enhance the network of parks, trails, and natural areas near the
Springwater Corridor Trail and the East Buttes to enhance habitat connectivity and nature-based
recreation in East Portland.
250. Finding:  Policies 7.53 through 7.57 provide direction regarding the environment and watershed
health in the Johnson Creek Watershed. The BHD amendments do not affect the environmental
zones that apply in this area or programs related to habitat or watershed health. BHD amendments
to the Johnson Creek Basin Plan District that allow for a variety of compact housing types with
attached units, intended to promote clustered development that reduce development impacts, are
consistent with these policies, as are amendments that exempt floodplains from minimum density
requirements and that place limits on the size of large parking lots, which helps reduce stormwater
impacts.

Chapter 8: Public Facilities and Services
Goal 8.A: Quality public facilities and services. High-quality public facilities and services provide
Portlanders with optimal levels of service throughout the city, based on system needs and community
goals, and in compliance with regulatory mandates.
Goal 8.B: Multiple benefits. Public facility and service investments improve equitable service
provision, support economic prosperity, and enhance human and environmental health.
Goal 8.C: Reliability and resiliency. Public facilities and services are reliable, able to withstand or
recover from catastrophic natural and manmade events, and are adaptable and resilient in the face of
long-term changes in the climate, economy, and technology.
Goal 8.D: Public rights-of-way. Public rights-of-way enhance the public realm and provide a multi-
purpose, connected, safe, and healthy physical space for movement and travel, public and private
utilities, and other appropriate public functions and uses.
Goal 8.E: Sanitary and stormwater systems. Wastewater and stormwater are managed, conveyed,
and/or treated to protect public health, safety, and the environment, and to meet the needs of the
community on an equitable, efficient, and sustainable basis.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Goal 8.F: Flood management. Flood management systems and facilities support watershed health and
manage flooding to reduce adverse impacts on Portlanders’ health, safety, and property.
Goal 8.G: Water. Reliable and adequate water supply and delivery systems provide sufficient
quantities of high-quality water at adequate pressures to meet the needs of the community on an
equitable, efficient, and sustainable basis.
Goal 8.H: Parks, natural areas, and recreation. All Portlanders have safe, convenient, and equitable
access to high-quality parks, natural areas, trails, and recreational opportunities in their daily lives,
which contribute to their health and well-being. The City manages its natural areas and urban forest to
protect unique urban habitats and offer Portlanders an opportunity to connect with nature.
Goal 8.I: Public safety and emergency response. Portland is a safe, resilient, and peaceful community
where public safety, emergency response, and emergency management facilities and services are
coordinated and able to effectively and efficiently meet community needs.
Goal 8.J: Solid waste management. Residents and businesses have access to waste management
services and are encouraged to be thoughtful consumers to minimize upstream impacts and avoid
generating waste destined for the landfill. Solid waste — including food, yard debris, recyclables,
electronics, and construction and demolition debris — is managed, recycled, and composted to ensure
the highest and best use of materials.
Goal 8.K: School facilities. Public schools are honored places of learning as well as multifunctional
neighborhood anchors serving Portlanders of all ages, abilities, and cultures.
Goal 8.L: Technology and communications. All Portland residences, businesses, and institutions have
access to universal, affordable, and reliable state-of-the-art communication and technology services.
Goal 8.M: Energy infrastructure and services. Residents, businesses, and institutions are served by
reliable energy infrastructure that provides efficient, low-carbon, affordable energy through decision-
making based on integrated resource planning.
251. Finding:  The adopted 2035 Comprehensive Plan includes the Citywide Systems Plan (CSP), which
was adopted (Ordinance 185657) and acknowledged by LCDC on April 25, 2017. The CSP includes
the Public Facilities Plan with information on current and future transportation, water, sanitary
sewer, and stormwater infrastructure needs and projects.
In addition, the service limitations identified in the CSP have been incorporated into the adopted
BLI development constraint analysis that identified parts of Portland that lack needed urban
infrastructure. The BLI constraint analysis is the basis of a geographic evaluation of the BHD zones
to ensure that public facilities are planned to support any potential development that could result
from these amendments.
The BHD amendments expand the types of housing allowed, especially in the lower density RM1
and RM2 multi-dwelling zones, which make up 92 percent of the multi-dwelling zoned land in
Portland.  The change to regulating density by FAR will provide more flexibility for how many
units are allowed inside the building, which will allow for a wider range of smaller housing types
and sizes. In RM2 zone, which is often located along transit corridors, will allow for a higher
density that is similar to adjacent mixed-use commercial zones. After accounting for the BLI
constraints, the development capacity in BHD zones increases by about 14,000 units.
As required by ORS 195.036, the BLI allocation model uses Metro’s population forecast to
determine where new housing units are likely to be allocated. The BHD capacity and growth
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

allocation model shows minor changes to the spatial distribution of housing units across Portland.
This data was then evaluated by infrastructure bureaus at specific geographies to determine
system and service adequacy.
Sanitary Sewer
The Bureau of Environmental Services evaluated the proposed changes in household allocation
and found that sanitary flows from multi-dwelling structures represent a minor portion of the
flows carried by any given pipe, and sanitary flows from additional dwelling units on those multi-
dwelling zoned properties are unlikely to significantly affect the system. The Bureau
Environmental Services regularly analyzes sanitary and combined system, in conjunction with
planning projections from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, to determine priority areas
for both capacity and structural upgrades. Over time, these capital projects, identified in the
Citywide Systems Plan, will address any localized issues. Moreover, all developments are required
to connect to sanitary sewer service and meet current building and sanitation codes. Where local
existing infrastructure is not adequate or available to serve proposed development, system
extensions and/or upgrades will be required as part of the development review process. (see BES
letter dated August 31, 2019)
Stormwater
Stormwater is conveyed through the combined sewer system, pipes, ditches, or drainageways to
streams and rivers. In some cases, stormwater is managed in detention facilities, other vegetated
facilities, or allowed to infiltrate in natural areas. Safe conveyance of stormwater is an issue in
some areas, particularly in the hilly areas of west Portland and some parts of outer southeast
which lack comprehensive conveyance systems and where infiltration is limited by geology or
high groundwater.  Since 1999, the Stormwater Management Manual (SWMM) has provided
policy and design requirements for stormwater management throughout the City of Portland.
The requirements apply to all development, redevelopment, and improvement projects within
the City of Portland on private and public property and in the public right-of-way.
In most parts of Portland, the SWMM requirements address the potential impacts from BHD-
related development. Since the BHD amendments do not propose increases in impervious area
over what is currently allowed in the zoning code and includes other measures that can reduce
impervious surfaces, such as reduced parking requirements and limits on parking areas and
asphalt paving, the Bureau of Environmental Services is generally supportive of the project.
In some parts of Portland, however, challenging site conditions like steep slopes and poorly
draining soils can complicate stormwater management. These sites may not be suitable for
infiltration, based on depth to seasonal high groundwater, soil infiltration capability, or do not
have access to a stormwater pipe or culvert, combined sewer pipe, stream or drainageway. The
BHD amendments do not increase the amount of multi-dwelling zoned areas in these stormwater
constrained areas. The BHD changes do not significantly increase either the allowable building
coverage or impervious area from existing zoning allowances. Further, reducing minimum on-site
parking requirements and limits on surface parking areas could result in even less impervious
area. Provisions that encourage the preservation of large trees through the transfer of
development rights and required deep rear setbacks in East Portland, as well as allowing
stormwater facilities to count toward minimum landscaping, provide additional environmental
and stormwater benefits.
Water
Water demand forecasts developed by the Water Bureau anticipate that while per capita water
demands will continue to decline somewhat over time, the overall demands on the Portland
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

water system will increase due to population growth.  The Portland Water Bureau has not
experienced any major supply deficiencies in the last 10 years. The water supply and distribution
system is sized to meet City fire suppression needs which far surpass the day-to day demand
from residential customers. The BHD amendments are not expected to cause significant
problems for either current water users or the overall system. If the additional densities allowed
through the BHD amendments exacerbate existing local capacity issues in isolated areas, some
infrastructure improvements may be required to meet local capacity issues. New development
may be required to extend service where no service is presently available or upgrade water mains
when development requires larger water meter sizes. (See Water Bureau letter dated August 27,
2019).
Transportation
Transportation facilities are addressed under Chapter 9 (Transportation), below.
The constraints on public facilities are not insurmountable, but mean development could face
increased cost to provide or upgrade the needed infrastructure.
The findings for Statewide Planning Goal 11 also address public facilities and are incorporated by
reference.
Service provision and urbanization
Policy 8.1. Urban services boundary. Maintain an Urban Services Boundary for the City of Portland
that is consistent with the regional urban growth policy, in cooperation with neighboring jurisdictions.
The Urban Services Boundary is shown on the Comprehensive Plan Map.
Policy 8.2. Rural, urbanizable, and urban public facility needs. Recognize the different public facility
needs in rural, urbanizable and urban land as defined by the Regional Urban Growth Boundary, the
City Urban Services Boundary, and the City Boundaries of Municipal Incorporation. See Figure 8-1 —
Urban, Urbanizable, and Rural Lands.
Policy 8.3. Urban service delivery. Provide the following public facilities and services at urban levels of
service to urban lands within the City’s boundaries of incorporation:
 Public rights-of-way, streets, and public trails
 Sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment
 Stormwater management and conveyance
 Flood management
 Protection of the waterways of the state
 Water supply
 Police, fire, and emergency response
 Parks, natural areas, and recreation
 Solid waste regulation
Policy 8.4. Supporting facilities and systems. Maintain supporting facilities and systems, including
public buildings, technology, fleet, and internal service infrastructure, to enable the provision of public
facilities and services.

Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy 8.5. Planning service delivery. Provide planning, zoning, building, and subdivision control
services within the boundaries of incorporation, and as otherwise provided by intergovernmental
agreement within the City’s Urban Services Boundary.
252. Finding: The City Council interprets policies 8.1 through 8.5 provide direction on the provision of
public facilities and services. The BHD amendments do not include new public facility or
infrastructure projects. These policies do not apply.
Service coordination
Policy 8.6. Interagency coordination. Maintain interagency coordination agreements with neighboring
jurisdictions and partner agencies that provide urban public facilities and services within the City of
Portland’s Urban Services Boundary to ensure effective and efficient service delivery. See Policy 8.3 for
the list of services included. Such jurisdictions and agencies include, but may not be limited to:
 Multnomah County for transportation facilities and public safety.
 State of Oregon for transportation and parks facilities and services.
 TriMet for public transit facilities and services.
 Port of Portland for air and marine facilities and services.
 Metro for regional parks and natural areas, and for solid waste, composting, and recycling
facilities and transfer stations.
 Gresham, Milwaukie, Clackamas County Service District #1, and Clean Water Services for
sanitary sewer conveyance and treatment.
 Multnomah County Drainage District No. 1, Peninsula Drainage District No 1, and Peninsula
Drainage District No. 2 for stormwater management and conveyance, and for flood mitigation,
protection, and control.
 Rockwood People’s Utility District; Sunrise Water Authority; and the Burlington, Tualatin
Valley, Valley View, West Slope, Palatine Hill, Alto Park, and Clackamas River Water Districts
for water distribution.
 Portland Public Schools and the David Douglas, Parkrose, Reynolds, Centennial, and Riverdale
school districts for public education, park, trail, and recreational facilities.
Policy 8.7. Outside contracts. Coordinate with jurisdictions and agencies outside of Portland where
the City provides services under agreement.
Policy 8.8. Public service coordination. Coordinate with the planning efforts of agencies providing
public education, public health services, community centers, urban forest management, library
services, justice services, energy, and technology and communications services.
Policy 8.9. Internal coordination. Coordinate planning and provision of public facilities and services,
including land acquisition, among City agencies, including internal service bureaus.
Policy 8.10. Co-location. Encourage co-location of public facilities and services across providers where
co-location improves service delivery efficiency and access for historically under-represented and
under-served communities.
253. Finding: The City Council interprets policies 8.6 through 8.10 provide direction on coordination
with neighboring jurisdictions and partner agencies that provide urban public facilities and
services within the City of Portland’s Urban Services Boundary. The BHD amendments do not
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

include new public facility or infrastructure projects or amendments to public service
coordination agreements. These policies do not apply.
Service extension
Policy 8.11. Annexation. Require annexation of unincorporated urbanizable areas within the City’s
Urban Services Boundary as a prerequisite to receive urban services.
Policy 8.12. Feasibility of service. Evaluate the physical feasibility and cost-effectiveness of extending
urban public services to candidate annexation areas to ensure sensible investment and to set
reasonable expectations.
Policy 8.13. Orderly service extension. Establish or improve urban public services in newly-annexed
areas to serve designated land uses at established levels of service, as funds are available and as
responsible engineering practice allows.
Policy 8.14. Coordination of service extension. Coordinate provision of urban public services to
newly-annexed areas so that provision of any given service does not stimulate development that
significantly hinders the City’s ability to provide other urban services at uniform levels.
Policy 8.15. Services to unincorporated urban pockets. Plan for future delivery of urban services to
urbanizable areas that are within the Urban Services Boundary but outside the city limits.
Policy 8.16. Orderly urbanization. Coordinate with counties, neighboring jurisdictions, and other
special districts to ensure consistent management of annexation requests, and to establish rational
and orderly process of urbanization that maximize efficient use of public funds.
Policy 8.17. Services outside the city limits. Prohibit City provision of new urban services, or
expansion of the capacity of existing services, in areas outside city limits, except in cases where the
City has agreements or contracts in place.
Policy 8.18. Service district expansion. Prohibit service district expansion or creation within the City’s
Urban Services Boundary without the City’s expressed consent.
Policy 8.19. Rural service delivery. Provide the public facilities and services identified in Policy 8.3 in
rural areas only at levels necessary to support designated rural residential land uses and protect public
health and safety. Prohibit sanitary sewer extensions into rural land and limit other urban services.
254. Finding: The City Council interprets policies 8.11 through 8.19 provide direction on extending
public services. The BHD amendments do not include new public facility or infrastructure projects
or service extensions. These policies do not apply.
Public investment
Policy 8.20. Regulatory compliance. Ensure public facilities and services remain in compliance with
state and federal regulations. Work toward cost-effective compliance with federal and state mandates
through intergovernmental coordination and problem solving.
Policy 8.21. System capacity. Establish, improve, and maintain public facilities and services at levels
appropriate to support land use patterns, densities, and anticipated residential and employment
growth, as physically feasible and as sufficient funds are available.
Policy 8.22. Equitable service. Provide public facilities and services to alleviate service deficiencies and
meet level-of-service standards for all Portlanders, including individuals, businesses, and property
owners.
8.22.a. In places that are not expected to grow significantly but have existing deficiencies, invest
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

to reduce disparity and improve livability.
8.22.b. In places that lack basic public facilities or services and also have significant growth
potential, invest to enhance neighborhoods, fill gaps, maintain affordability, and accommodate
growth.
8.22.c. In places that are not expected to grow significantly and already have access to complete
public facilities and services, invest primarily to maintain existing facilities and retain livability.

8.22.d. In places that already have access to complete public facilities and services, but also
have significant growth potential, invest to fill remaining gaps, maintain affordability, and
accommodate growth.
Policy 8.23. Asset management. Improve and maintain public facility systems using asset
management principles to optimize preventative maintenance, reduce unplanned reactive
maintenance, achieve scheduled service delivery, and protect the quality, reliability, and adequacy of
City services.
Policy 8.24. Risk management. Maintain and improve Portland’s public facilities to minimize or
eliminate economic, social, public health and safety, and environmental risks.
Policy 8.25. Critical infrastructure. Increase the resilience of high-risk and critical infrastructure
through monitoring, planning, maintenance, investment, adaptive technology, and continuity
planning.
Policy 8.26. Capital programming. Maintain long-term capital improvement programs that balance
acquisition and construction of new public facilities with maintenance and operations of existing
facilities.
255. Finding: The City Council interprets policies 8.20 through 8.26 provide direction on investment
priorities for public facilities. The BHD amendments do not include new public facility or
infrastructure projects. These policies do not apply.
Funding
Policy 8.27. Cost-effectiveness. Establish, improve, and maintain the public facilities necessary to
serve designated land uses in ways that cost-effectively provide desired levels of service, consider
facilities’ lifecycle costs, and maintain the City’s long-term financial sustainability.
Policy 8.28. Shared costs. Ensure the costs of constructing and providing public facilities and services
are equitably shared by those who benefit from the provision of those facilities and services.
Policy 8.29. System development. Require private or public entities whose prospective development
or redevelopment actions contribute to the need for public facility improvements, extensions, or
construction to bear a proportional share of the costs.
Policy 8.30. Partnerships. Maintain or establish public and private partnerships for the development,
management, or stewardship of public facilities necessary to serve designated land uses, as
appropriate.
256. Finding: The City Council interprets policies 8.27 through 8.30 provide direction on funding public
facilities and services within the City of Portland’s Urban Services Boundary. The BHD
amendments do not include new public facility or infrastructure projects. These policies do not
apply.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Public benefits
Policy 8.31. Application of Guiding Principles. Plan and invest in public facilities in ways that promote
and balance the Guiding Principles established in The Vision and Guiding Principles of this
Comprehensive Plan.
Policy 8.32. Community benefit agreements. Encourage the use of negotiated community benefit
agreements for large public facility projects as appropriate to address environmental justice policies in
Chapter 2: Community Involvement.
Policy 8.33. Community knowledge and experience. Encourage public engagement processes and
strategies for larger public facility projects to include community members in identifying potential
impacts, mitigation measures and community benefits.
Policy 8.34. Resource efficiency. Reduce the energy and resource use, waste, and carbon emissions
from facilities necessary to serve designated land uses to meet adopted City goals and targets.
Policy 8.35. Natural systems. Protect, enhance, and restore natural systems and features for their
infrastructure service and other values.
Policy 8.36. Context-sensitive infrastructure. Design, improve, and maintain public rights-of-way and
facilities in ways that are compatible with, and that minimize negative impacts on, their physical,
environmental, and community context.
Policy 8.37. Site- and area-specific needs. Allow for site- and area-specific public facility standards,
requirements, tools, and policies as needed to address distinct topographical, geologic,
environmental, and other conditions.
Policy 8.38. Age-friendly public facilities. Promote public facility designs that make Portland more
age-friendly.
257. Finding: The City Council interprets policies 8.31 through 8.38 provide direction on the associated
public benefits that should be considered in conjunction with investment in public facilities and
services within the City of Portland’s Urban Services Boundary. The BHD amendments do not
include new public facility or infrastructure projects. These policies do not apply.
Public rights-of-way
Policy 8.39. Interconnected network. Establish a safe and connected rights-of-way system that
equitably provides infrastructure services throughout the city.
Policy 8.40. Transportation function. Improve and maintain the right-of-way to support multimodal
transportation mobility and access to goods and services as is consistent with the designated street
classification.
Policy 8.41. Utility function. Improve and maintain the right-of-way to support equitable distribution
of utilities, including water, sanitary sewer, stormwater management, energy, and communications, as
appropriate.
Policy 8.42. Stormwater management function. Improve rights-of-way to integrate green
infrastructure and other stormwater management facilities to meet desired levels-of-service and
economic, social, and environmental objectives.
Policy 8.43. Trees in rights-of-way. Integrate trees into public rights-of-way to support City canopy
goals, transportation functions, and economic, social, and environmental objectives.
Policy 8.44. Community uses. Allow community use of rights-of-way for purposes such as public
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

gathering space, events, or temporary festivals, if the community uses are integrated in ways that
balance and minimize conflict with the designated through movement and access roles of rights-of-
ways.
Policy 8.45. Pedestrian amenities. Encourage facilities that enhance pedestrian enjoyment, such as
transit shelters, garbage containers, benches, etc. in the right-of-way.
Policy 8.46. Commercial uses. Accommodate allowable commercial uses of the rights-of-way for
enhancing commercial vitality, if the commercial uses can be integrated in ways that balance and
minimize conflict with the other functions of the right-of-way.
Policy 8.47. Flexible design. Allow flexibility in right-of-way design and development standards to
appropriately reflect the pattern area and other relevant physical, community, and environmental
contexts and local needs.
8.47.a. Use a variety of transportation resources in developing and designing projects for all
City streets, such as the City of Portland’s Pedestrian Design Guide, Bicycle Master Plan-
Appendix A, NACTO Urban Bikeway Design Guide, NACTO Urban Street Design Guide, Portland
Parks and Recreation Trail Design Guidelines, Designing for Truck Movements and Other Large
Vehicles, and City of Portland Green Street Policy, Stormwater Management Manual, Design
Guide for Public Street Improvements, and Neighborhood Greenways. (TSP objective 8.1.e.).
Policy 8.48. Corridors and City Greenways. Ensure public facilities located along Civic Corridors,
Neighborhood Corridors, and City Greenways support the multiple objectives established for these
corridors. Policy 8.49 Coordination. Coordinate the planning, design, development, improvement, and
maintenance of public rights-of-way among appropriate public agencies, private providers, and
adjacent landowners.
Policy 8.49. Coordination. Coordinate the planning, design, development, improvement, and
maintenance of public rights-of-way among appropriate public agencies, private providers, and
adjacent landowners.
8.49.a. Coordination efforts should include the public facilities necessary to support the uses
and functions of rights-of-way, as established in policies 8.40 to 8.46.
8.49.b. Coordinate transportation and stormwater system plans and investments, especially in
unimproved or substandard rights-of-way, to improve water quality, public safety, including for
pedestrians and bicyclists, and neighborhood livability.
Policy 8.50. Undergrounding. Encourage undergrounding of electrical and telecommunications
facilities within public rights-of-way, especially in centers and along Civic Corridors.
Policy 8.51. Right-of-way vacations. Maintain rights-of-way if there is an established existing or future
need for them, such as for transportation facilities or for other public functions established in policies
8.40 to 8.46.
Policy 8.52. Rail rights-of-way. Preserve existing and abandoned rail rights-of-way for future rail or
public trail uses.
258. Finding:  The City Council interprets policies 8.39 through 8.52 to apply to new public facilities or
infrastructure projects in the right-of-way.  The BHD amendments do not include new public
facility or infrastructure projects in the right-of-way. These policies do not apply. However,
changes to eliminate onsite parking requirements reduce the need for driveway curb cuts which
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

improves safety and increase opportunities for street trees, stormwater facilities, and other
pedestrian amenities.
Trails
Policy 8.53. Public trails. Establish, improve, and maintain a citywide system of public trails that
provide transportation and/or recreation options and are a component of larger network of facilities
for bicyclists, pedestrians, and recreational users.
Policy 8.54. Trail system connectivity. Plan, improve, and maintain the citywide trail system so that it
connects and improves access to Portland’s neighborhoods, commercial areas, employment centers,
schools, parks, natural areas, recreational facilities, regional destinations, the regional trail system,
and other key places that Portlanders access in their daily lives.
Policy 8.55. Trail coordination. Coordinate planning, design, improvement, and maintenance of the
trail system among City agencies, other public agencies, non-governmental partners, and adjacent
landowners.
Policy 8.56. Trail diversity. Allow a variety of trail types to reflect a trail’s transportation and
recreation roles, requirements, and physical context.
Policy 8.57. Public access requirements. Require public access and improvement of public trails along
the future public trail alignments shown in Figure 8-2 — Future Public Trail Alignments.
Policy 8.58. Trail and City Greenway coordination. Coordinate the planning and improvement of trails
as part of the City Greenways system.
Policy 8.59. Trail and Habitat Corridor coordination. Coordinate the planning and improvement of
trails with the establishment, enhancement, preservation, and access to habitat corridors.
Policy 8.60. Intertwine coordination. Coordinate with the Intertwine Alliance and its partners,
including local and regional parks providers, to integrate Portland’s trail and active transportation
network with the bi-state regional trail system.
259. Finding: The City Council interprets policies 8.53 through 8.60 to apply to designated trails. While
designated trail alignments are included in public rights of way adjacent multi-dwelling zones, the
BHD amendments do not amend the designated trail alignments. These policies do not apply.
Sanitary system
Policy 8.61. Sewer connections. Require all developments within the city limits to be connected to
sanitary sewers unless the public sanitary system is not physically or legally available per City Code and
state requirements; or the existing onsite septic system is functioning properly without failure or
complaints per City Code and state requirements; and the system has all necessary state and county
permits.
Policy 8.62. Combined sewer overflows. Provide adequate public facilities to limit combined sewer
overflows to frequencies established by regulatory permits.
Policy 8.63. Sanitary sewer overflows. Provide adequate public facilities to prevent sewage releases
to surface waters as consistent with regulatory permits.
Policy 8.64. Private sewage treatment systems. Adopt land use regulations that require any proposed
private sewage treatment system to demonstrate that all necessary state and county permits are
obtained.
Policy 8.65. Sewer extensions. Prioritize sewer system extensions to areas that are already developed
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

at urban densities and where health hazards exist.
Policy 8.66. Pollution prevention. Reduce the need for wastewater treatment capacity through land
use programs and public facility investments that manage pollution as close to its source as practical
and that reduce the amount of pollution entering the sanitary system.
Policy 8.67. Treatment. Provide adequate wastewater treatment facilities to ensure compliance with
effluent standards established in regulatory permits.
260. Finding:  The City Council interprets policies 8.61 through 8.67 to apply to the provision of
sanitary sewer facilities. BES does not anticipate these changes will cause significant problems for
either property owners or the system. The Bureau of Environmental Services regularly analyzes
the system, in conjunction with planning projections from the Bureau of Planning and
Sustainability, and determines priority areas for both capacity and structural upgrades. Over time,
these capital projects will be added to the Citywide Systems Plan to address any localized issues
created through the increased densities allowed by the BHD amendments.
Stormwater Systems
Policy 8.68. Stormwater facilities. Provide adequate stormwater facilities for conveyance, flow
control, and pollution reduction.
Policy 8.69. Stormwater as a resource. Manage stormwater as a resource for watershed health and
public use in ways that protect and restore the natural hydrology, water quality, and habitat of
Portland’s watersheds.
Policy 8.70 Natural systems. Protect and enhance the stormwater management capacity of natural
resources such as rivers, streams, creeks, drainageways, wetlands, and floodplains.
Policy 8.71. Green infrastructure. Promote the use of green infrastructure, such as natural areas, the
urban forest, and landscaped stormwater facilities, to manage stormwater.
Policy 8.72. Stormwater discharge. Avoid or minimize the impact of stormwater discharges on the
water and habitat quality of rivers and streams.
Policy 8.73. On-site stormwater management. Encourage on-site stormwater management, or
management as close to the source as practical, through land use decisions and public facility
investments.
Policy 8.74. Pollution prevention. Coordinate policies, programs, and investments with partners to
prevent pollutants from entering the stormwater system by managing point and non-point pollution
sources through public and private facilities, local regulations, and education.
Policy 8.75. Stormwater partnerships. Provide stormwater management through coordinated public
and private facilities, public-private partnerships, and community stewardship.
261. Finding:  The City Council interprets policies 8.68 through 8.75 to apply to the provision of
stormwater facilities. The BHD amendments do not increase the amount of multi-dwelling zoned
areas in these stormwater constrained areas. The change to regulating density by FAR will
provide more flexibility for how many units are allowed inside the building, but the development
standards do not significantly increase the maximum building coverage limit, so the amount of
impervious surface should not significantly increase. The BHD amendments reduce minimum
parking requirements and allow eco roofs, raised courtyards and raised stormwater planters to
be used to meet up to 50 percent of required landscaping, which can reduce the impervious
surface of the development and facilitate on-site stormwater management.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Flood management
Policy 8.76. Flood management. Improve and maintain the functions of natural and managed
drainageways, wetlands, and floodplains to protect health, safety, and property, provide water
conveyance and storage, improve water quality, and maintain and enhance fish and wildlife habitat.
Policy 8.77. Floodplain management. Manage floodplains to protect and restore associated natural
resources and functions and to minimize the risks to life and property from flooding.
Policy 8.78. Flood management facilities. Establish, improve, and maintain flood management
facilities to serve designated land uses through planning, investment and regulatory requirements.
Policy 8.79. Drainage district coordination. Coordinate with drainage districts that provide
stormwater management, conveyance, and flood mitigation, protection, and control services within
the City’s Urban Services Boundary.
Policy 8.80. Levee coordination. Coordinate plans and investments with special districts and agencies
responsible for managing and maintaining certification of levees along the Columbia River.
262. The City Council interprets policies 8.76 through 8.80 to apply to the management of floodplains.
About 70 acres of multi-dwelling zoned areas are in areas susceptible to flooding. The BHD
amendments do not increase the amount of multi-dwelling zoned areas in these flood prone
areas. Moreover, for sites in flood prone areas, the BHD amendments do not amend the
environmental overlay maps, nor do they change City programs that regulate development in the
floodplain (i.e., Title 33.631 Sites in Flood Hazard Areas; Title 10 Erosion Control, and the
balanced cut and fill requirements of Title 24).
Water systems
Policy 8.81. Primary supply source. Protect the Bull Run watershed as the primary water supply
source for Portland.
Policy 8.82. Bull Run protection. Maintain a source-protection program and practices to safeguard the
Bull Run watershed as a drinking water supply.
Policy 8.83. Secondary supply sources. Protect, improve, and maintain the Columbia South Shore
wellfield groundwater system, the Powell Valley wellfield groundwater system, and any other
alternative water sources designated as secondary water supplies.
Policy 8.84. Groundwater wellfield protection. Maintain a groundwater protection program and
practices to safeguard the Columbia South Shore wellfield and the Powell Valley wellfield as drinking
water supplies.
Policy 8.85. Water quality. Maintain compliance with state and federal drinking water quality
regulations.
Policy 8.86. Storage. Provide sufficient in-city water storage capacity to serve designated land uses,
meet demand fluctuations, maintain system pressure, and ensure supply reliability.
Policy 8.87. Fire protection. Provide adequate water facilities to serve the fire protection needs of all
Portlanders and businesses.
Policy 8.88. Water pressure. Provide adequate water facilities to maintain water pressure in order to
protect water quality and provide for the needs
of customers.
Policy 8.89. Water efficiency. Reduce the need for additional water facility capacity and maintain
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

compliance with state water resource regulations by encouraging efficient use of water by customers
within the city.
Policy 8.90. Service interruptions. Maintain and improve water facilities to limit interruptions in water
service to customers.
Policy 8.91. Outside user contracts. Coordinate long-term water supply planning and delivery with
outside-city water purveyors through long-term
wholesale contracts.
263. The City Council interprets policies 8.81 through 8.91 to apply to the provision of water service.
The BHD amendments are not expected to cause significant problems for either current water
users or the overall system is not anticipated. If the additional densities allowed through the BHD
amendments exacerbate existing local capacity issues in isolated areas, some infrastructure
improvements may be required to meet local capacity issues. New development may be required
to extend service where no service is presently available or upgrade water mains when
development requires larger water meter sizes.
Parks and recreation
Policy 8.92. Acquisition, development, and maintenance. Provide and maintain an adequate supply
and variety of parkland and recreational facilities to serve the city’s current and future population
based on identified level-of-service standards and community needs.
Policy 8.93. Service equity. Invest in acquisition and development of parks and recreation facilities in
areas where service-level deficiencies exist.
Policy 8.94. Capital programming. Maintain a long-range park capital improvement program, with
criteria that considers acquisition, development, and operations; provides opportunities for public
input; and emphasizes creative and flexible financing strategies.
Policy 8.95. Park planning. Improve parks, recreational facilities, natural areas, and the urban forest in
accordance with current master plans, management plans, or adopted strategies that reflect user
group needs, development priorities, development and maintenance costs, program opportunities,
financing strategies, and community input.
Policy 8.96. Recreational trails. Establish, improve, and maintain a complete and connected system of
public recreational trails, consistent with Portland Parks & Recreation’s trail strategy.
Policy 8.97. Natural resources. Preserve, enhance, and manage City-owned natural areas and
resources to protect and improve their ecological health, in accordance with both the natural area
acquisition and restoration strategies, and to provide compatible public access.
Policy 8.98. Urban forest management. Manage urban trees as green infrastructure with associated
ecological, community, and economic functions, through planning, planting, and maintenance
activities, education, and regulation.
Policy 8.99. Recreational facilities. Provide a variety of recreational facilities and services that
contribute to the health and well-being of Portlanders of all ages and abilities.
Policy 8.100. Self-sustaining Portland International Raceway (PIR). Provide for financially self-
sustaining operations of PIR, and broaden its programs and activities to appeal to families, diverse
communities, and non-motorized sports such as biking and running.
Policy 8.101. Self-sustaining and inclusive golf facilities. Provide financially self-sustaining public golf
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

course operations. Diversify these assets to attract new users, grow the game, provide more
introductory-level programming, and expand into other related recreational opportunities such as foot
golf and disk golf.
Policy 8.102. Specialized recreational facilities. Establish and manage specialized facilities within the
park system that take advantage of land assets and that respond to diverse, basic, and emerging
recreational needs.
Policy 8.103. Public-private partnerships. Encourage public-private partnerships to develop and
operate publicly-accessible recreational facilities that meet identified public needs.
264. Finding: The City Council interprets these policies 8.92 through 8.103 to address City-owned parks
and natural areas and not development on private land. These policies do not apply.
Public safety and emergency response
Policy 8.104. Emergency preparedness, response, and recovery coordination. Coordinate land use
plans and public facility investments between City bureaus, other public and jurisdictional agencies,
businesses, community partners, and other emergency response providers, to ensure coordinated and
comprehensive emergency and disaster risk reduction, preparedness, response, and recovery.
Policy 8.105. Emergency management facilities. Provide adequate public facilities – such as
emergency coordination centers, communications infrastructure, and dispatch systems – to support
emergency management, response, and recovery.
Policy 8.106. Police facilities. Improve and maintain police facilities to allow police personnel to
efficiently and effectively respond to public safety needs and serve designated land uses.
Policy 8.107. Community safety centers. Establish, coordinate, and co-locate public safety and other
community services in centers.
Policy 8.108. Fire facilities. Improve and maintain fire facilities to serve designated land uses, ensure
equitable and reliable response, and provide fire and life safety protection that meets or exceeds
minimum established service levels.
Policy 8.109. Mutual aid. Maintain mutual aid coordination with regional emergency response
providers as appropriate to protect life and ensure safety.
Policy 8.110. Community preparedness. Enhance community preparedness and capacity to prevent,
withstand, and recover from emergencies and natural disasters through land use decisions and public
facility investments.
Policy 8.111. Continuity of operations. Maintain and enhance the City's ability to withstand and
recover from natural disasters and human-made disruptions in order to minimize disruptions to public
services.
265. Finding: The City Council interprets policies 8.104 through 8.111 to address the provision of public
safety and emergency response services and not development on private land. These policies do
not apply.
Solid waste management
Policy 8.112. Waste management. Ensure land use programs, rights-of-way regulations, and public
facility investments allow the City to manage waste effectively and prioritize waste management in
the following order: waste reduction, recycling, anaerobic digestion, composting, energy recovery, and
then landfill.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

266. Finding: The City Council interprets this policy to address the provision of waste management
services and not development on private land. These policies do not apply.
School facilities
Policy 8.113. School district capacity. Consider the overall enrollment capacity of a school district – as
defined in an adopted school facility plan that meets the requirements of Oregon Revised Statute 195
– as a factor in land use decisions that increase capacity for residential development.
267. Finding: David Douglas School District (DDSD) is the only school district in Portland with an adopted
school facility plan. The Buildable Lands Inventory calculates available development capacity and
predicts where new households will be allocated over the planning period. Comparing the BHD
growth allocation to the current Comprehensive Plan allocation, the net change to households in
the David Douglas School District is a reduction of 1,500 units (roughly a 12% decrease from 12,000
units previously forecasted). This shift is primarily due to how the BHD changes affect other parts of
the city and reflect recent development trends that have more growth in the Central City and inner
neighborhoods and slower growth in East Portland. The David Douglas School District has indicated
that it can accommodate these changes into their future forecasting for their facility plan.
Policy 8.114. Facilities Planning. Facilitate coordinated planning among school districts and City
bureaus, including Portland Parks and Recreation, to accommodate school site/facility needs in
response to most up-to-date growth forecasts.
Policy 8.115. Co-location. Encourage public school districts, Multnomah County, the City of Portland,
and other providers to co-locate facilities and programs in ways that optimize service provision and
intergenerational and intercultural use.
Policy 8.116. Community use. Encourage public use of public school grounds for community purposes
while meeting educational and student safety needs and balancing impacts on surrounding
neighborhoods.
Policy 8.117. Recreational use. Encourage publicly-available recreational amenities (e.g. athletic fields,
green spaces, community gardens, and playgrounds) on public school grounds for public recreational
use, particularly in neighborhoods with limited access to parks.
Policy 8.118. Schools as emergency aid centers. Encourage the use of seismically-safe school facilities
as gathering and aid-distribution locations during natural disasters and other emergencies.
Policy 8.119. Facility adaptability. Ensure that public schools may be upgraded to flexibly
accommodate multiple community-serving uses and adapt to changes in educational approaches,
technology, and student needs over time.
Policy 8.120. Leverage public investment. Encourage City public facility investments that complement
and leverage local public school districts’ major capital investments.
Policy 8.121. School access. Encourage public school districts to consider the ability of students to
safely walk and bike to school when making decisions about the site locations and attendance
boundaries of schools.
Policy 8.122. Private institutions. Encourage collaboration with private schools and educational
institutions to support community and recreational use of their facilities.
268. Finding: The City Council interprets policies 8.114 through 8.122 to address the provision of school
facilities and not development on private land. These policies do not apply.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Technology and communications
Policy 8.123. Technology and communication systems. Maintain and enhance the City’s technology
and communication facilities to ensure public safety, facilitate access to information, and maintain
City operations.
Policy 8.124. Equity, capacity, and reliability. Encourage plans and investments in technology and
communication infrastructure to ensure access in all areas of the city, reduce disparities in capacity,
and affordability, and to provide innovative high-performance, reliable service for Portland’s residents
and businesses.
269. Finding:  The City Council interprets policies 8.123 and 8.124 to address the provision technology
and communication services and not development on private land. This policy does not apply.
Energy infrastructure
Policy 8.125. Energy efficiency. Promote efficient and sustainable production and use of energy
resources by residents and businesses, including low-carbon renewable energy sources, district energy
systems, and distributed generation, through land use plans, zoning, and other legislative land use
decisions.
270. Finding:  The BHD amendments do not amend the sections of the zoning code that regulate the
production of energy or other types of energy infrastructure. This policy does not apply.
Chapter 9 Transportation
GOAL 9.A: Safety. Transportation safety impacts the livability of a city and the comfort and security of
those using City streets. Comprehensive efforts to improve transportation safety through engineering,
education, enforcement and evaluation will be used to eliminate traffic-related fatalities and serious
injuries from Portland’s transportation system.
Goal 9.B: Multiple goals. Portland’s transportation system is funded and maintained to achieve
multiple goals and measurable outcomes for people and the environment. The transportation system
is safe, complete, interconnected, multimodal, and fulfills daily needs for people and businesses.
GOAL 9.C: Great places. Portland’s transportation system enhances quality of life for all Portlanders,
reinforces existing neighborhoods and great places, and helps make new great places in town centers,
neighborhood centers and corridors, and civic corridors.
GOAL 9.D: Environmentally sustainable. The transportation system increasingly uses active
transportation, renewable energy, or electricity from renewable sources, achieves adopted carbon
reduction targets, and reduces air pollution, water pollution, noise, and Portlanders’ reliance on
private vehicles.
GOAL 9.E: Equitable transportation. The transportation system provides all Portlanders options to
move about the city and meet their daily needs by using a variety of safe, efficient, convenient, and
affordable modes of transportation. Transportation investments are responsive to the distinct needs
of each community.
GOAL 9.F: Positive health outcomes. The transportation system promotes positive health outcomes
and minimizes negative impacts for all Portlanders by supporting active transportation, physical
activity, and community and individual health.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

GOAL 9.G: Opportunities for prosperity. The transportation system supports a strong and diverse
economy, enhances the competitiveness of the city and region, and maintains Portland’s role as a
West Coast trade gateway and freight hub by providing efficient and reliable goods movement,
multimodal access to employment areas and educational institutions, as well as enhanced freight
access to industrial areas and intermodal freight facilities. The transportation system helps people and
businesses reduce spending and keep money in the local economy by providing affordable alternatives
to driving.
GOAL 9.H: Cost effectiveness. The City analyzes and prioritizes capital and operating investments to
cost effectively achieve the above goals while responsibly managing and protecting our past
investments in existing assets.
GOAL 9.I: Airport Futures. Promote a sustainable airport (Portland International Airport [PDX]) by
meeting the region’s air transportation needs without compromising livability and quality of life for
future generations.
271. Finding: The City Council interprets these goals to address transportation improvements,
programming, funding priorities and maintenance and not development on private land.
As demonstrated in the findings for Statewide Planning Goal 12 (Transportation) and the policies
of Chapter 8 (Transportation), the BHD amendments do not significantly impact the
transportation system.  The transportation impact of the BHD amendments was evaluated by the
Portland Bureau of Transportation (PBOT) (see PBOT memo, dated September 6, 2019). the PBOT
analysis found that peak PM hour traffic resulting from the BHD amendments is not significant.
The added traffic is widely spread across the City. The current and proposed housing types are
consistent land uses within the context of the descriptions of the functional classifications of
existing or planned transportation facilities.
The BHD amendments include mitigating strategies that serve to improve mode split
performance and limit traffic impacts which were not able to be incorporated into the analysis
model. First, minimum parking requirements are being reduced. The BHD amendments further
promote a walkable form through regulations on the amount of building façade that are occupied
with garages and prohibiting off-street parking between the building and the street. The BHD
amendments expand the TDM financial incentive requirements to multi-dwelling zones in
locations close to frequent transit, projects with buildings with 10 or more units will be required
to use strategies that reduce transportation impacts, such as by providing residents with transit
passes, bike share or car share memberships, and information on transportation options.
Designing and planning
Policy 9.1. Street design classifications. Maintain and implement street design classifications
consistent with land use plans, environmental context, urban design pattern areas, and the
Neighborhood Corridor and Civic Corridor Urban Design Framework designations.
Policy 9.2. Street policy classifications. Maintain and implement street policy classifications for
pedestrian, bicycle, transit, freight, emergency vehicle, and automotive movement, while considering
access for all modes, connectivity, adjacent planned land uses, and state and regional requirements.
9.2.a. Designate district classifications that emphasize freight mobility and access in industrial
and employment areas serving high levels of truck traffic and to accommodate the needs of
intermodal freight movement.
9.2.b. Designate district classifications that give priority to pedestrian access in areas where high
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

levels of pedestrian activity exist or are planned, including the Central City, Gateway regional
center, town centers, neighborhood centers, and transit station areas.
9.2.c. Designate district classifications that give priority to bicycle access and mobility in areas
where high levels of bicycle activity exist or are planned, including Downtown, the River District,
Lloyd District, Gateway Regional Center, town centers, neighborhood centers, and transit station
areas.
Policy 9.3. Transportation System Plan. Maintain and implement the Transportation System Plan
(TSP) as the decision-making tool for transportation-related projects, policies, programs, and street
design.
Policy 9.4. Use of classifications. Plan, develop, implement, and manage the transportation system in
accordance with street design and policy classifications outlined in the Transportation System Plan.
9.4.a. Classification descriptions are used to describe how streets should function for each mode
of travel, not necessarily how they are functioning at present.
272. Finding:  Policies 9.1 through 9.4 provide direction regarding transportation system classifications
and the Transportation System Plan. The BHD amendments do not change the functional
classification of any existing or proposed transportation facility, nor do they change the standards
implementing a functional classification system.
Policy 9.5. Mode share goals and Vehicle Miles Travelled (VMT) reduction. Increase the share of trips
made using active and low-carbon transportation modes. Reduce VMT to achieve targets set in the
most current Climate Action Plan and Transportation System Plan, and meet or exceed Metro’s mode
share and VMT targets.
273. Finding: The BHD amendments remove regulatory barriers to encourage higher-density housing
by providing for a wider range of housing types in the RM1 and RM2 zones throughout the city,
which encompass 92 percent of the multi-dwelling zoning in Portland. The BHD amendments
generally support reducing VMT and increasing non-automobile mode splits by creating more
housing capacity in accessible locations because 86 percent of the acres with multi-dwelling
zoning is located within ¼ mile of transit. The BHD amendments include mitigating strategies that
serve to improve mode split performance and limit traffic impacts. which include eliminating or
reducing minimum parking requirements; promoting a walkable urban form through regulations
on the amount of building façade that can occupied with garages and prohibiting off-street
parking between the building and the street. The BHD amendments also expand the TDM
financial incentive requirements to multi-dwelling zones in locations close to frequent transit, for
projects with buildings with 10 or more units.
Policy 9.6. Transportation strategy for people movement. Design the system to accommodate the
most vulnerable users, including those that need special accommodation under the Americans with
Disabilities Act (ADA). Implement a prioritization of modes for people movement by making
transportation system decisions per the following ordered list:
 Walking
 Bicycling
 Transit
 Fleets of electric, fully automated, multiple passenger vehicles
 Other shared vehicles
 Low or no occupancy vehicles, fossil-fueled non-transit vehicles
When implementing this prioritization ensure that:
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

 The needs and safety of each group of users are considered, and changes do not make
existing conditions worse for the most vulnerable users.
 All users’ needs are balanced with the intent of optimizing the right of way for multiple
modes on the same street.
 When necessary to ensure safety, accommodate some users on parallel streets as part
of multi-street corridors.
 Land use and system plans, network functionality for all modes, other street functions,
and complete street policies, are maintained.
 Policy-based rationale is provided if modes lower in the ordered list are prioritized.
Policy 9.7. Moving goods and delivering services. In tandem with people movement, maintain
efficient and reliable movement of goods and services as a critical transportation system function.
Prioritize freight system reliability improvements over single-occupancy vehicle mobility where there
are solutions that distinctly address those different needs.
Policy 9.8. Affordability. Improve and maintain the transportation system to increase access to
convenient and affordable transportation options for all Portlanders, especially those who have
traditionally been under-served or under-represented or have historically borne unequal burdens.
Policy 9.9. Accessible and age-friendly transportation system. Ensure that transportation facilities are
accessible to people of all ages and abilities, and that all improvements to the transportation system
(traffic, transit, bicycle, and pedestrian) in the public right-of-way comply with the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990. Improve and adapt the transportation system to better meet the needs of the
most vulnerable users, including the young, older adults, and people with different abilities.
Policy 9.10. Geographic policies. Adopt geographically-specific policies in the Transportation System
Plan to ensure that transportation infrastructure reflects the unique topography, historic character,
natural features, system gaps, economic needs, demographics, and land uses of each area. Use the
Pattern Areas identified in Chapter 3: Urban Form as the basis for area policies.
9.10.a. Refer to adopted area plans for additional applicable geographic objectives related to
transportation. Land use, development, and placemaking
274. Finding:  Policies 9.6 through 9.10 provide direction regarding planning for the transportation
system. These policies address the design and planning of transportation facilities and not
development on private land. These policies do not apply.
Land use, development, and placemaking
Policy 9.11. Land use and transportation coordination. Implement the Comprehensive Plan Map and
the Urban Design Framework though coordinated long-range transportation and land use planning.
Ensure that street policy and design classifications and land uses complement one another.
275. Finding:  The BHD amendments expand the types of housing allowed, especially in the lower
density RM1 and RM2 multi-dwelling zones, which make up 92 percent of the multi-dwelling
zoned land in Portland.  The change to regulating density by FAR will provide more flexibility for
how many units are allowed inside the building, which will allow for a wider range of smaller
housing types and sizes. In RM2 zone, which is often located along transit corridors, will allow for
a higher density that is similar to adjacent mixed-use commercial zones. The Portland Bureau of
Transportation (PBOT) has evaluated these changes and found that peak PM hour traffic resulting
from the BHD amendments is not significant; the added traffic is widely spread across the City;
and expected housing types are consistent with the land uses anticipated within the context of
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

the descriptions of the functional classifications of existing or planned transportation facilities.
Therefore, the BHD amendments have been coordinated with the long-range transportation
plans. (see PBOT memo, dated September 6, 2019)
Policy 9.12. Growth strategy. Use street design and policy classifications to support Goals 3A-3G in
Chapter 3: Urban Form. Consider the different design contexts and transportation functions in Town
Centers, Neighborhood Centers, Neighborhood Corridors, Employment Areas, Freight Corridors, Civic
Corridors, Transit Station Areas, and Greenways.
276. Finding: The BHD amendments do not change the functional classification of any existing or
proposed transportation facility, nor do they change the standards implementing a functional
classification system. The amendments ensure new development is consistent with the land uses
anticipated within the context of the descriptions of the functional classifications of existing or
planned transportation facilities.
Policy 9.13. Development and street design. Evaluate adjacent land uses to help inform street
classifications in framing, shaping, and activating the public space of streets. Guide development and
land use to create the kinds of places and street environments intended for different types of streets.
277. Finding: The BHD amendments do not change the functional classification of any existing or
proposed transportation facility, nor do they change the standards implementing a functional
classification system. The BHD amendments are consistent with this policy by including land use
and design-related provisions specific to street design classifications in the Transportation System
Plan. This includes allowances for ground-floor commercial uses, higher building coverage, and
zero side setbacks along Civic and Neighborhood Corridors to support their roles as locations for
transit-oriented development and focused urban activity.
Streets as public spaces
Policy 9.14. Streets for transportation and public spaces. Integrate both placemaking and
transportation functions when designing and managing streets by encouraging design, development,
and operation of streets to enhance opportunities for them to serve as places for community
interaction, environmental function, open space, tree canopy, recreation, and other community
purposes.
Policy 9.15. Repurposing street space. Encourage repurposing street segments that are not critical for
transportation connectivity to other community purposes.
Policy 9.16. Design with nature. Promote street alignments and designs that respond to topography
and natural features, when feasible, and protect streams, wildlife habitat, and native trees.
278. Finding: Policies 9.14 through 9.16 address the design and use of public streets and not
development on private land. These policies do not apply.
Modal policies
Policy 9.17. Pedestrian transportation. Encourage walking as the most attractive mode of
transportation for most short trips, within and to centers, corridors, and major destinations, and as a
means for accessing transit.
279. Finding: The BHD amendments include new requirements that will improve the pedestrian
environment and encourage more pedestrian trips in multi-dwelling zones. They limit front
garages and parking structures to 50 percent of buildings along streets. The changes also prohibit
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

parking from being located between buildings along streets and requires building entrances to be
oriented to streets or a courtyard connected to a street.
Policy 9.18. Pedestrian networks. Create more complete networks of pedestrian facilities, and
improve the quality of the pedestrian environment.
280. Finding: The BHD amendments improve the quality of the pedestrian environment through
regulations on the amount of building façade that can be occupied with garages and prohibiting
off-street parking between the building and the street, as well as requiring building entrances to
be oriented to streets or a courtyard that is connected to a street.
Policy 9.19. Pedestrian safety and accessibility. Improve pedestrian safety, accessibility, and
convenience for people of all ages and abilities.
281. Finding: The BHD amendments improve pedestrian safety by reducing or eliminating minimum
on-site parking requirements which provides more options for sites to forego on-site parking and
the related curb cut and driveway, which can be conflict points for pedestrians.
Policy 9.20. Bicycle transportation. Create conditions that make bicycling more attractive than driving
for most trips of approximately three miles or less.
Policy 9.21. Accessible bicycle system. Create a bicycle transportation system that is safe,
comfortable, and accessible to people of all ages and abilities.
Policy 9.22. Public transportation. Coordinate with public transit agencies to create conditions that
make transit the preferred mode of travel for trips that are not made by walking or bicycling.
Policy 9.23. Transportation to job centers. Promote and enhance transit to be more convenient and
economical than the automobile for people travelling more than three miles to and from the Central
City and Gateway. Enhance regional access to the Central City and access from Portland to other
regional job centers.
Policy 9.24. Transit service. In partnership with TriMet, develop a public transportation system that
conveniently, safely, comfortably, and equitably serves residents and workers 24 hours a day, 7 days a
week.
Policy 9.25. Transit equity. In partnership with TriMet, maintain and expand high-quality frequent
transit service to all Town Centers, Civic Corridors, Neighborhood Centers, Neighborhood Corridors,
and other major concentrations of employment, and improve service to areas with high
concentrations of poverty and historically under-served and under-represented communities.
9.25.a. Support a public transit system and regional transportation that address the
transportation needs of historically marginalized communities and provide increased mobility
options and access.
Policy 9.26. Transit funding. Consider funding strategies and partnership opportunities that improve
access to and equity in transit service, such as raising metro-wide funding to improve service and
decrease user fees/fares.
Policy 9.27. Transit service to centers and corridors. Use transit investments to shape the city’s
growth and increase transit use. In partnership with TriMet and Metro, maintain, expand, and
enhance Portland Streetcar, frequent service bus, and high-capacity transit, to better serve centers
and corridors with the highest intensity of potential employment and household growth.
9.27.a. Locate major park-and-ride lots only where transit ridership is increased significantly,
vehicle miles traveled are reduced, transit-supportive development is not hampered, bus service
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

is not available or is inadequate, and the surrounding area is not negatively impacted.
Policy 9.28. Intercity passenger service. Coordinate planning and project development to expand
intercity passenger transportation services in the Willamette Valley, and from Portland to Seattle and
Vancouver, BC.
Policy 9.29. Regional trafficways and transitways. Maintain capacity of regional transitways and
existing regional trafficways to accommodate through-traffic.
Policy 9.30. Multimodal goods movement. Develop, maintain, and enhance a multimodal freight
transportation system for the safe, reliable, sustainable, and efficient movement of goods within and
through the city.
Policy 9.31. Economic development and industrial lands. Ensure that the transportation system
supports traded sector economic development plans and full utilization of prime industrial land,
including brownfield redevelopment.
Policy 9.32. Multimodal system and hub. Maintain Portland’s role as a multimodal hub for global and
regional movement of goods. Enhance Portland’s network of multimodal freight corridors.
Policy 9.33. Freight network. Develop, manage, and maintain a safe, efficient, and reliable freight
street network to provide freight access to and from intermodal freight facilities, industrial and
commercial districts, and the regional transportation system. Invest to accommodate forecasted
growth of interregional freight volumes and provide access to truck, marine, rail, and air
transportation systems. Ensure designated routes and facilities are adequate for over-dimensional
trucks and emergency equipment.
Policy 9.34. Sustainable freight system. Support the efficient delivery of goods and services to
businesses and neighborhoods, while also reducing environmental and neighborhood impacts.
Encourage the use of energy efficient and clean delivery vehicles, and manage on- and off-street
loading spaces to ensure adequate access for deliveries to businesses, while maintaining access to
homes and businesses.
Policy 9.35. Freight rail network. Coordinate with stakeholders and regional partners to support
continued reinvestment in, and modernization of, the freight rail network.
Policy 9.36 Portland Harbor. Coordinate with the Port of Portland, private stakeholders, and
regional partners to improve and maintain access to marine terminals and related river-dependent
uses in Portland Harbor.
9.36.a. Support continued reinvestment in, and modernization of, marine terminals in Portland
Harbor.
9.36.b. Facilitate continued maintenance of the shipping channels in Portland Harbor and the
Columbia River.
9.36.c. Support shifting more long-distance, high-volume movement of goods to river and
oceangoing ships and rail.
Policy 9.37. Portland Heliport. Maintain Portland’s Heliport functionality in the Central City.
Policy 9.38. Automobile transportation. Maintain acceptable levels of mobility and access for private
automobiles while reducing overall vehicle miles traveled (VMT) and negative impacts of private
automobiles on the environment and human health.
Policy 9.39. Automobile efficiency. Coordinate land use and transportation plans and programs with
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

other public and private stakeholders to encourage vehicle technology innovation, shifts toward
electric and other cleaner, more energy-efficient vehicles and fuels, integration of smart vehicle
technology with intelligent transportation systems, and greater use of options such as car-share,
carpool, and taxi.
Policy 9.40. Emergency response. Maintain a network of accessible emergency
response streets to facilitate safe and expedient emergency response and evacuation. Ensure that
police, fire, ambulance, and other emergency providers can reach their destinations in a timely
fashion, without negatively impacting traffic calming and other measures intended to reduce crashes
and improve safety.
282. Finding: Policies 9.20 through 9.40 address the design and use of public transportation
infrastructure and not development on private land where multi-dwelling development occurs.
These policies do not apply.
Regarding Policy 9.33, this policy directs the City to develop, maintain, and enhance a multimodal
freight transportation system. The City Council interprets this policy to apply to transportation
system design and city investment decisions, and not land use decisions considering multi-
dwelling development. Testimony by Tamara DeRidder raised concerns that the BHD
amendments fail to address how the highest residential density is planned along major freight
corridors and how health impacts will be mitigated. The City Council shares the concerns
regarding multi-dwelling zoning near designated as freight routes, making the residents of multi-
dwelling housing more susceptible to poor health impacts. The proposed solution to require
enhanced air quality filters in multi-dwelling structures is a State Building Code issue, and not one
that regulated through the Zoning Code. The BHD amendments do include changes that can have
a positive health impact, including requiring a minimum front setback in the RM3 and RM4 zones
that provides additional area for trees and landscaping that can provide a buffer between the
building and the street.
Airport Futures
Policy 9.41. Portland International Airport. Maintain the Portland International Airport as an
important regional, national, and international transportation hub serving the bi-state economy.
Policy 9.42. Airport regulations. Implement the Airport Futures Plan through the implementation of
the Portland International Airport Plan District.
9.42.a. Prohibit the development of a potential third parallel runway at PDX unless need for its
construction is established through a transparent, thorough, and regional planning process.
9.42.b. Support implementation of the Aircraft Landing Zone to provide safer operating
conditions for aircraft in the vicinity of Portland International Airport by limiting the height of
structures, vegetation, and construction equipment.
9.42.c. Support the Port of Portland’s Wildlife Hazard Management Plan by implementing
airport-specific landscaping requirements in the Portland International Airport Plan District to
reduce conflicts between wildlife and aircraft.
Policy 9.43. Airport partnerships. Partner with the Port of Portland and the regional community to
address the critical interconnection between economic development, environmental stewardship,
and social responsibility. Support an ongoing public advisory committee for PDX to:
9.43.a. Support meaningful and collaborative public dialogue and engagement on airport
related planning and development.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

9.43.b. Provide an opportunity for the community to inform the decision-making related to the
airport of the Port, the City of Portland, and other jurisdictions/organizations in the region.
9.43.c. Raise public knowledge about PDX and impacted communities.
Policy 9.44. Airport investments. Ensure that new development and redevelopment of airport
facilities supports the City’s and the Port’s sustainability goals and policies, and is in accordance with
Figure 9-3 — Portland International Airport. Allow the Port flexibility in configuring airport facilities to
preserve future development options, minimize environmental impacts, use land resources efficiently,
maximize operational efficiency, ensure development can be effectively phased, and address Federal
Aviation Administration’s airport design criteria.
283. Finding:  Policies 9.41 through 9.44provide policy direction related to Portland International
Airport and are not relevant to the multi-dwelling zones and other regulations that are the focus
of the BHD amendments. These policies do not apply.
System management
Policy 9.45. System management. Give preference to transportation improvements that use existing
roadway capacity efficiently and that improve the safety of the system for all users.
9.45.a. Support regional equity measures for transportation system evaluation.
Policy 9.46. Traffic management. Evaluate and encourage traffic speed and volume to be consistent
with street classifications and desired land uses to improve safety, preserve and enhance
neighborhood livability, and meet system goals of calming vehicle traffic through a combination of
enforcement, engineering, and education efforts.
9.46.a. Use traffic calming tools, traffic diversion and other available tools and methods to
create and maintain sufficiently low automotive volumes and speeds on neighborhood
greenways to ensure comfortable cycling environment on the street.
284. Finding: Policies 9.45 and 9.46 address management of the public street system and not
development on private land. These policies do not apply.
Policy 9.47. Connectivity. Establish an interconnected, multimodal transportation system to serve
centers and other significant locations. Promote a logical, direct, and connected street system through
street spacing guidelines and district-specific street plans found in the Transportation System Plan,
and prioritize access to specific places by certain modes in accordance with policies 9.6 and 9.7.
9.47.a. Develop conceptual master street plans for areas of the City that have significant
amounts of vacant or underdeveloped land and where the street network does not meet City
and Metro connectivity guidelines.
9.47.b. As areas with adopted Street Plans develop, provide connectivity for all modes by
developing the streets and accessways as shown on the Master Street Plan Maps in the Comp
Plan.
9.47.c. Continue to provide connectivity in areas with adopted Street Plans for all modes of
travel by developing public and private streets as shown on the Master Street Plan Maps in the
Comp Plan.
9.47.d. Provide street connections with spacing of no more than 530 feet between connections
except where prevented by barriers such as topography, railroads, freeways, or environmental
constraints. Where streets must cross over protected water features, provide crossings at an
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

average spacing of 800 to 1000 feet, unless exceptional habitat quality of length of crossing
prevents a full street connection.
9.47.e Provide bike and pedestrian connections at approximately 330 feet intervals on public
easements or rights-of-way when full street connections are not possible, except where
prevented by barriers s such as topography, railroads, freeways, or environmental constraints.
Bike and pedestrian connections that cross protected water features should have an average
spacing of no more than 530 feet, unless exceptional habitat quality or length of connection
prevents a connection.
285. Finding: The BHD amendments facilitate street connections and improve connectivity in East
Portland centers by requiring street frontages wide enough to provide space for new street
connections and by calculating development allowances prior to street dedication to remove a
disincentive to providing new street connections.
Policy 9.48 Technology. Encourage the use of emerging vehicle and parking technology to improve
real-time management of the transportation network and to manage and allocate parking supply and
demand.
Policy 9.49 Performance measures. Establish multimodal performance measures and measures of
system completeness to evaluate and monitor the adequacy of transportation services based on
performance measures in goals 9.A. through 9.I. Use these measures to evaluate overall system
performance, inform corridor and area-specific plans and investments, identify project and program
needs, evaluate and prioritize investments, and regulate development, institutional campus growth,
zone changes, Comprehensive Plan Map amendments, and conditional uses.
9.49.a. Eliminate deaths and serious injuries for all who share Portland streets by 2025.
9.49.b. Maintain or decrease the number of peak period non-freight motor vehicle trips, system-
wide and within each mobility corridor to reduce or manage congestion.
9.49.c. By 2035, reduce the number of miles Portlanders travel by car to 11 miles per day or less,
on average.
9.49.d. Establish mode split targets in 2040 Growth Concept areas within the City, consistent
with Metro’s targets for these areas.
9.49.e. By 2035, increase the mode share of daily non-drive alone trips to 70 percent citywide,
and to the following in the five pattern areas:
Pattern Area 2035 daily target mode share
Central City 85%
Inner Neighborhoods 70%
Western Neighborhoods 65%
Eastern Neighborhoods 65%
Industrial and River 55%

Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

9.49.f. By 2035, 70 percent of commuters walk, bike, take transit, carpool, or work from home
at approximately the following rates:
Mode Mode Share
Walk 7.5%
Bicycle 25%
Transit 25%
Carpool 10%
Single Occupant Vehicle (SOV) 30% or less
Work at home 10% below the line (calculated
outside of the modal targets above)

9.49.g. By 2035, reduce Portland’s transportation-related carbon emissions to 50% below 1990
levels, at approximately 934,000 metric tons.
9.49.h. By 2025, increase the percentage of new mixed use zone building households not
owning an automobile from approximately 13% (2014) to 25%, and reduce the percentage of
households owning two automobiles from approximately 24% to 10%.
9.49.i. Develop and use alternatives to the level-of-service measure to improve safety,
encourage multimodal transportation, and to evaluate and mitigate maintenance and new trip
impacts from new development.
9.49.j. Use level-of-service, consistent with Table 9.1*, as one measure to evaluate the
adequacy of transportation facilities in the vicinity of sites subject to land use review.
9.49.k. Maintain acceptable levels of performance on state facilities and the regional arterial
and throughway network, consistent with the interim standard in Table 9.2*, in the
development and adoption of, and amendments to, the Transportation System Plan and in
legislative amendments to the Comprehensive Plan Map.
9.49.l. In areas identified by Metro that exceed the level-of-service in Table 9.2* and are
planned to, but do not currently meet the alternative performance criteria, establish an action
plan that does the following:
 Anticipates growth and future impacts of motor vehicle traffic on multimodal travel in
the area
 Establishes strategies for mitigating the future impacts of motor vehicles
 Establishes performance standards for monitoring and implementing the action plan.
*Note:  Referenced Tables 9.1 and 9.2 are contained within the Transportation System Plan and
should not be confused with tables or figures within the 2035 Comprehensive Plan.
9.49.m. Develop performance measures to track progress in creating and maintaining the
transportation system.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy 9.50 Regional congestion management. Coordinate with Metro to establish new regional
multimodal mobility standards that prioritize transit, freight, and system completeness.
9.50.a. Create a regional congestion management approach, including a market-based system,
to price or charge for auto trips and parking, better account for the cost of auto trips, and to
more efficiently manage the regional system.
Policy 9.51. Multimodal Mixed-Use Area. Manage Central City Plan amendments in accordance with
the designated Central City Multimodal Mixed-Use Area (MMA) in the geography indicated in Figure 9-
2. The MMA renders congestion / mobility standards inapplicable to any proposed plan amendments
under OAR 660-0012-0060(10).
286. Finding: Policies 9.48 through 9.51 address the management of the City’s transportation system
and not development on private land. These policies do not apply.
Transportation Demand Management
Policy 9.52. Outreach. Create and maintain TDM outreach programs that work with Transportation
Management Associations (TMA), residents, employers, and employees that increase the modal share
of walking, bicycling, and shared vehicle trips while reducing private vehicle ownership, parking
demand, and drive-alone trips, especially during peak periods.
Policy 9.53. New development. Create and maintain TDM regulations and services that prevent and
reduce traffic and parking impacts from new development and redevelopment. Encourage
coordinated area-wide delivery of TDM programs. Monitor and improve the performance of private-
sector TDM programs.
Policy 9.54. Projects and programs. Integrate TDM information into transportation project and
program development and implementation to increase use of new multimodal transportation projects
and services.
287. Finding:  Policies 9.52 through 9.54 provide direction regarding transportation demand
management. The BHD amendments are consistent with these policies as they apply
transportation demand management requirements to multi-dwelling zones in locations close to
frequent transit in projects with buildings with 10 or more units.
Parking management
Policy 9.55. Parking management. Reduce parking demand and manage supply to improve
pedestrian, bicycle and transit mode share, neighborhood livability, safety, business district vitality,
vehicle miles traveled (VMT) reduction, and air quality. Implement strategies that reduce demand for
new parking and private vehicle ownership, and that help maintain optimal parking occupancy and
availability.
288.  Finding: Off-street Parking Management. The BHD amendments eliminate minimum off-street
parking requirements on small sites (up to 10,000 square feet) in the multi-dwelling zones for
projects with up to 30 units. On larger sites, the minimum required parking ratio is reduced by half -
- from one space for each unit to one space for every two units. BHD amendments are also
consistent with this policy through applying requirements for transportation and parking demand
management approaches in the multi-dwelling zones in location close to transit. These approaches
including options for residents to be provided with transit passes, bike share or car share
membership, or other options to encourage alternatives to private vehicle ownership and travel.

Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy 9.56. Curb Zone. Recognize that the Curb Zone is a public space, a physical and spatial asset
that has value and cost. Evaluate whether, when, and where parking is the highest and best use of this
public space in support of broad City policy goals and local land use context. Establish thresholds to
utilize parking management and pricing tools in areas with high parking demand to ensure adequate
on-street parking supply during peak periods.
289. Finding: The BHD amendments support this policy by reducing or eliminating minimum off-street
parking which reduces the need for curb cuts and driveways, effectively increasing the amount of
uninterrupted curb space. The changes also limit front garages and parking structures to 50
percent of buildings along streets. The changes also prohibit parking from being located between
buildings along streets, which can reduce the need for driveway curb cuts.
Policy 9.57. On-street parking. Manage parking and loading demand, supply, and operations in the
public right of way to achieve mode share objectives, and to encourage safety, economic vitality, and
livability. Use transportation demand management and pricing of parking in areas with high parking
demand.
290. Finding: The Transportation Planning Rule points to the designation of residential on-street parking
districts as a tool that local governments within an MPO can use to reduce reliance on automobile
trips (660-012-0045). Portland has had an Area Parking Permit Program in effect since 1981. In
recent years, this program has expanded to include 17 zones with neighborhoods and businesses
collaborating with PBOT to create the rules for their zone. Per City Council ordinance, the Area
Parking Permit Program can impose a surcharge on parking permits. The money raised from the
surcharge can then be used to fund Transportation Demand Management strategies that reduce
automobile trips. This includes a Transportation Wallet program where participants can receive
significantly reduced transit, bike share, and other mobility passes in exchange for forgoing an on-
street parking permit. PBOT will continue to seek opportunities to work with neighborhoods to
expand the Area Parking Permit Program to address areas where traffic and parking congestion are
increasing.
Policy 9.58. Off-street parking. Limit the development of new parking spaces to achieve land use,
transportation, and environmental goals, especially in locations with frequent transit service. Regulate
off-street parking to achieve mode share objectives, promote compact and walkable urban form,
encourage lower rates of car ownership, and promote the vitality of commercial and employment
areas. Use transportation demand management and pricing of parking in areas with high parking
demand.
291. Finding:  BHD amendments are consistent with this policy by placing limits in the multi-dwelling
zones on the maximum amount of off-street parking provided for each unit in locations close to
frequent transit service. The BHD amendments also eliminate minimum off-street parking
requirements on small sites (up to 10,000 square feet) in the multi-dwelling zones. On larger
sites, the minimum required parking ratio is reduced by half -- from one space for each unit to
one space for every two units. BHD amendments exempt projects providing affordable housing
units in the multi-dwelling and commercial/mixed use zones citywide from minimum parking
requirements.
Policy 9.59. Share space and resources. Encourage the shared use of parking and vehicles to maximize
the efficient use of limited urban space.
292. Finding: The BHD amendments eliminate minimum off-street parking requirements on small sites
(up to 10,000 square feet) in the multi-dwelling zones. On larger sites, the minimum required
parking ratio is reduced by half -- from one space for each unit to one space for every two units.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

These changes, in conjunction with requirements for outdoor space, should allow site area to be
used for other uses.
Policy 9.60. Cost and price. Recognize the high public and private cost of parking by encouraging
prices that reflect the cost of providing parking and balance demand and supply. Discourage employee
and resident parking subsidies.
293. Finding: This policy addresses the management of the City’s parking system and not development
on private land. The BHD amendments do not change the price of parking in the City’s garages.
This policy does not apply.
Policy 9.61. Bicycle parking. Promote the development of new bicycle parking facilities including
dedicated bike parking in the public right-of-way. Provide sufficient bicycle parking at high-capacity
transit stations to enhance bicycle connection opportunities. Require provision of adequate off-street
bicycle parking for new development and redevelopment. Encourage the provision of parking for
different types of bicycles. In establishing the standards for long-term bicycle parking, consider the
needs of persons with different levels of ability.
294. Finding: Changes to the Bicycle Parking Code, including changes that apply to the multi-dwelling
zones, are being made in a separate ordinance that will be considered by City Council this fall.
The BHD amendments help facilitate bicycle parking by exempting required bicycle parking from
building FAR calculations.
Finance, programs, and coordination
Policy 9.62. Coordination. Coordinate with state and federal agencies, local and regional
governments, special districts, other City bureaus, and providers of transportation services when
planning for, developing, and funding transportation facilities and services.
Policy 9.63. New development impacts. Prevent, reduce, and mitigate the impacts of new
development and redevelopment on the transportation system. Utilize strategies including
transportation and parking demand management, transportation system analysis, and system and
local impact mitigation improvements and fees.
Policy 9.64. Education and encouragement. Create, maintain, and coordinate educational and
encouragement programs that support multimodal transportation and that emphasize safety for all
modes of transportation. Ensure that these programs are accessible to historically under-served and
under-represented populations.
Policy 9.65. Telecommuting. Promote telecommuting and the use of communications technology to
reduce travel demand.
Policy 9.66. Project and program selection criteria. Establish transportation project and program
selection criteria consistent with goals 9A through 9I, to cost-effectively achieve access, placemaking,
sustainability, equity, health, prosperity, and safety goals.
Policy 9.67. Funding. Encourage the development of a range of stable transportation funding sources
that provide adequate resources to build and maintain an equitable and sustainable transportation
system.
295. Finding: Policies 9.62 through 9.67 address the funding and management of the City’s
transportation system and not development on private land. These policies do not apply.

Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Connected and Automated Vehicles
Policy 9.68 Connected and Automated Vehicles Priorities and Outcomes. Prioritize connected and
automated vehicles that are fleet/shared ownership, fully automated, electric and, for passenger
vehicles, shared by multiple passengers (known by the acronym FAVES). Develop and implement
strategies for each following topic.
9.68.a. Ensure that all levels of automated vehicles advance Vision Zero by operating safely for
all users, especially for vulnerable road users.  Require adequate insurance coverage for
operators, customers, and the public-at-large by providers of commercial connected and
autonomous vehicle services.
9.68.b. Ensure that connected and automated vehicles improve travel time reliability and
system efficiency by:
1. maintaining or reducing the number of vehicle trips during peak congestion periods;
2. reducing low occupancy vehicle trips during peak congestion periods;
3. paying for use of, and impact on, Portland’s transportation system including factors
such as congestion level, vehicle miles traveled, vehicle occupancy, and vehicle energy
efficiency; and
4. supporting and encouraging use of public transportation.
9.68.c. Cut vehicle carbon pollution by reducing low occupancy “empty miles” traveled by
passenger vehicles with zero or one passengers. Prioritize electric and other zero direct emission
vehicles operated by fleets and carrying multiple passengers.
9.68.d. Make the benefits of automated mobility available on an equitable basis to all segments
of the community while ensuring traditionally disadvantaged communities are not
disproportionately hurt by connected and autonomous vehicle use.  This includes people with
disabilities, as well as communities of color, women, and geographically underserved
communities.
9.68.e Identify, prevent, and mitigate potential adverse impacts from connected and automated
vehicles.
Policy 9.69 Connected and Automated Vehicles Tools. Use a full range of tools to ensure that
connected and automated vehicles and private data communications devices installed in the City right
of way contribute to achieving Comprehensive Plan and Transportation System Plan goals and policies.
9.69.a. Maintain City authority to identify and develop appropriate data sharing requirements to
inform and support safe, efficient, and effective management of the transportation system.
Ensure that when connected and automated vehicles use City rights-of-way or when vehicles
connect with smart infrastructure within the City they share information including, but not
limited to, vehicle type, occupancy, speed, travel routes, and travel times, with appropriate
privacy controls. Ensure that private data communications devices installed in the City right of
way are required to share anonymized transportation data.
9.69.b. Design and manage the mobility zone, curb zone, and traffic control devices, e.g. to limit
speeds to increase safety, to minimize cut-through traffic, evaluate future demand for pick-up
and drop-off zones, and to prioritize automated electric vehicles carrying more passengers in
congested times and locations;
9.69.c. Evaluate the public cost and benefit of investments in wayside communication systems
serving connected and automated vehicles. Develop a criteria-driven automated vehicle wayside
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

infrastructure investment plan.
9.69.d. Develop sustainable user-pays funding mechanisms to support connected and
automated vehicle infrastructure and service investments, transportation system maintenance,
and efficient system management.
9.69.e. Ensure that automated vehicles and vehicles that connect to smart City infrastructure,
and private data communications devices installed in the City right of way, help pay for
infrastructure and service investments, and support system reliability and efficiency. Develop a
tiered pricing structure that reflects vehicle impacts on the transportation system, including
factors such as congestion level, vehicle miles traveled, vehicle occupancy, and vehicle energy
efficiency.
296. Finding: Policies 9.68 and 9.69 address the management of automated vehicles and not
development on private land. These policies do not apply.

Chapter 10: Land Use Designations and Zoning
Goal 10.A: Land use designations and zoning. Effectively and efficiently carry out the goals and
policies of the Comprehensive Plan through the land use designations, Zoning Map, and the Zoning
Code.
297. The BHD amendments create new land use designations for the multi-dwelling areas with
corresponding zones in the Zoning Code and amendments to the Zoning Map, consistent with the
policies in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan.
Land use designations
Policy 10.1. Land use designations. Apply a land use designation to all land and water within the City’s
Urban Services Boundary. Apply the designation that best advances the Comprehensive Plan goals and
policies. The land use designations are shown on the adopted Land Use Map and on official Zoning
Maps.
298. Finding: The BHD amendments change the multi-dwelling residential designations to better
advance the Comprehensive Plan goals and policies, especially the Chapter 5 Housing goals and
policies.
The Multi-Dwelling – 3,000 and Multi-Dwelling – 2,000 designations are replaced with a new
Multi-Dwelling – Neighborhood designation because of the similarity of the two designations in
terms of building scale, housing types and mapping locations, which is typically as a low-rise
residential use that is a transition between lower density, single dwelling neighborhoods and
higher density mixed-use corridors.
The Multi-Dwelling – 1,000 designation is renamed to Multi-Dwelling – Corridor to better reflect
its role as the predominant multi-dwelling designation along Portland’s transit corridors.
The High-Density Multi-Dwelling designation is renamed to Multi-Dwelling – Urban Center to
better reflect its application to the Central City, Gateway Regional Center, and other town centers
around Portland.
The Comprehensive Plan Map changes are limited to applying the new land use designations
based on the previous corresponding designations. For example, all parcels designated as Multi-
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Dwelling – 3,000 are designated as Multi-Dwelling – Neighborhood. All parcels that currently have
a multi-dwelling residential designation have been given a new multi-dwelling residential
designation that best advances the 2035 Comprehensive Plan goals and policies as described in
these findings. Therefore, there are no significant affects as a result of these changes.
The Zoning Map and the Zoning Code
Policy 10.2. Relationship of land use designations to base zones. Apply a base zone to all land and
water within the City’s urban services boundary. The base zone applied must either be a zone that
corresponds to the land use designation or be a zone that does not correspond but is allowed per
Figure 10-1 — Corresponding and Less-Intense Zones for Each Plan Map Designation. In some
situations, there are long-term or short-term obstacles to achieving the level of development intended
by the land use designation (e.g., an infrastructure improvement to serve the higher level of
development is planned but not yet funded). In these situations, a less intense zone (listed in Figure
10-1) may be applied. When a land use designation is amended, the zone may also have to be changed
to a corresponding zone or a zone that does not correspond but is allowed.
299. Finding: The BHD amendments to the Comprehensive Plan land use designations include
corresponding zones for the renamed multi-dwelling residential land use designations and
changes to Figure 10-1 to reflect the new multi-dwelling zone names (RM1-RM4).
Policy 10.3. Amending the Zoning Map.
10.3.a. Amending a base zone may be done legislatively or quasi-judicially.
10.3.b. When amending a base zone quasi-judicially, the amendment must be to a
corresponding zone (see Figure 10-1 — Corresponding and Allowed Zones for Each Land Use
Designation). When a designation has more than one corresponding zone, the most appropriate
zone, based on the purpose of the zone and the zoning and general land uses of surrounding
lands, will be applied.
10.3.c. When amending a base zone legislatively, the amendment may be to a corresponding
zone or to a zone that is does not correspond but is allowed (see Figure 10-1 — Corresponding
and Allowed Zones for each Land Use Designation for zones that are allowed). A legislative
Zoning Map amendment may not be to a zone that is not allowed.
10.3.d. An amendment to a base zone consistent with the land use designation must be
approved when it is found that current public services can support the uses allowed by the zone,
or that public services can be made capable by the time the development is complete. The
adequacy of services is based on the proposed use and development. If a specific use and
development proposal is not submitted, services must be able to support the range of uses and
development allowed by the zone. For the purposes of this requirement, services include water
supply, sanitary sewage disposal, stormwater management, transportation, school district
capacity (where a school facility plan exists), and police and fire protection.
300. Finding: The BHD amendments include legislative map amendments to apply new multi-dwelling
base zone designations that correspond to the new Comprehensive Plan Map designations. For
Multi-Dwelling – Urban Center designations, the corresponding base zone designation (RM3 or
RM4) is based on the areas with 2:1 FAR (RM3) and 4:1 FAR (RM4) (Map 120 series), except for
the designations in the Alphabet and Kings Hill Historic District. The Historic District map
designations apply the RM3 and RM4 designations to be more reflective of the historic
development scale, consistent with Policy 4.49.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

As discussed in the findings under Statewide Planning Goal 11 and 12, as well as Comprehensive
Plan policies in Chapter 8 and 9 and findings for the Approval Criteria for Base Zone Changes, the
BHD amendments will result in dispersed and incremental increase in development capacity over
current zoning that can be supported by the public services identified in the Citywide Systems
Plan.
10.3.e. An amendment to apply or remove an overlay zone or plan district may be done
legislatively or quasi-judicially, and must be based on a study or plan document that identifies a
specific characteristic, situation, or problem that is not adequately addressed by the base zone
or other regulations.
301. Finding:  The BHD amendments remove the Alternative Design Density (‘a’) Overlay Zone from all
multi-dwelling zoned parcels. The purpose of the ‘a’ overlay zone, which was initially adopted in
1993, is to allow increased density for development that meets additional design compatibility
requirements. The shift to regulating density by FAR accomplishes the same flexibility for
additional housing units that is provided for in the a-overlay zone.
The BHD amendments expand the application of the design (“d”) overlay zone to apply to all RM3
and RM4 zoning (formerly RH). The majority (84 percent) of these areas already have the design
overlay or in historic districts (such the Alphabet Historic District in Northwest Portland). The City
of Portland applies the design overlay to zones that allow large-scale development. This helps
manage the design of significant amounts of change and to ensure that high-profile, larger-scale
development is well-designed. The RM3 and RM4 zoning allows buildings 65 to 100 feet tall,
which matches or exceeds the scale allowed in mixed use zones (EX and CM3) where the design
overlay. Therefore, in order to be consistent, City Council is applying the design overlay to all of
the parcels with the RM3 and RM4 designations.
Policy 10.4. Amending the Zoning Code. Amendments to the zoning regulations must be done
legislatively and should be clear, concise, and applicable to a broad range of development situations
faced by a growing city. Amendments should:
10.4.a. Promote good planning:
 Effectively and efficiently implement the Comprehensive Plan.
 Address existing and potential land use problems.
 Balance the benefits of regulations against the costs of implementation and compliance.
 Maintain Portland’s competitiveness with other jurisdictions as a location in which to live,
invest, and do business.
10.4.b. Ensure good administration of land use regulations:
 Keep regulations as simple as possible.
 Use clear and objective standards wherever possible.
 Maintain consistent procedures and limit their number.
 Establish specific approval criteria for land use reviews.
 Establish application requirements that are as reasonable as possible, and ensure they are
directly tied to approval criteria.
 Emphasize administrative procedures for land use reviews.
 Avoid overlapping reviews.
10.4.c. Strive to improve the code document:
 Use clear language.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

 Maintain a clear and logical organization.
 Use a format and layout that enables use of the document by lay people as well as
professionals.
 Use tables and drawings to clarify and shorten the document.
 Identify and act on regulatory improvement suggestions.
302. Finding: Volumes 2 and 3 of the Recommended Draft presents the legislative amendments to the
Zoning Code to implement the concepts presented in Volume 1 of this ordinance. These
amendments have been made in some cases to correct or update existing regulations to be
consistent with the new land use and zoning designations in the BHD amendments, or to include
new regulations and standards to allow implementation of BHD as no other provisions may exist
to accomplish that task. In all cases, the Zoning Code amendments are presented in as clear and
objective of a way possible to ensure the intended users will be able understand and utilize the
Zoning Code as it applies to their development proposals, land use, and properties, consistent
with Comprehensive Plan Policy 10.4.

Part IV.  Adopted Area Plans
The following adopted areas plans include policies related to the multi-dwelling zones:
Albina Community  Plan (Ordinances 166786 and 167054, effective 1993)
Central City 2035 (Ordinance 189000, effective 2018)
Outer Southeast Community Plan (Ordinance 169763, effective 1996)
Southwest Community Plan Vision, Policies and Objectives (Ordinance 174667, effective 2000)
Northwest District Plan – Remanded 2005 (Ordinances 177920, 177921, 177993, 178020,
effective 2003)
303. Finding:  The City Council has identified the following goals and policies to be applicable to the BHD
amendments. The City Council finds that other area plans apply at a smaller geography scale in
which compliance with the 2035 Comprehensive Plan supersedes any goals and policies in those
area plans.
Albina Community Plan (1993)
Policy Area I: Land Use
Policy B: Livable Neighborhoods
Protect and improve the livability of the residential neighborhoods within the Albina Community.
Direct new development activity to those areas that have experienced or are experiencing a loss of
housing. Ensure the compatibility of new development with nearby housing. Foster the development
of complete neighborhoods that have service and retail businesses located within or conveniently
near to them. Promote increases in residential density without creating economic pressure for the
clearance of sound housing.
304. Finding:  The BHD amendments support this policy by provisions that promote the compatibility of
multi-dwelling development with existing housing and through provisions that allow additional
housing density and promote housing preservation. This includes new approaches to regulating
development that will facilitate a revival of the diverse mix of multi-dwelling housing types – such
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

as fourplexes and courtyard apartments – once common in Albina and other inner neighborhoods,
expanded requirements for outdoor spaces, and requirements for landscaped front setbacks that
will integrate higher-density development with the characteristics of Albina’s residential
neighborhoods; and new incentives for preserving large trees. Limitations on street facing garages
and location of vehicle areas are also established to provide greater consistency with the
characteristics of Albina and other residential neighborhood areas  and to ensure that new
development enhances the public realm of streets. The lowest-scale new multi-dwelling zone, RM1,
includes development standards intended to provide continuity with the characteristics of single-
dwelling neighborhoods, including a maximum height of 35 feet that is a reduction from the current
R2 zone height allowance of 40 feet (which could accommodate four stories, instead of the two- to
three-story scale that is intended for the zone and is accommodated by the new maximum height).
Other development standards that bring continue with the characteristics of residential
neighborhoods in Albina and elsewhere are building coverage limits, landscaping requirements, and
new allowances for small accessory structures to be located in side and rear setbacks, allowing
continuation of common development patterns.
The BHD amendments that shift from regulating development by unit density to regulating by
building scale, with flexibility for more units, will accommodate additional density. A displacement
risk analysis, summarized in Appendix F of the Better Housing by Design Recommended Draft,
indicates that the BHD amendments will result in minimal increased risk of demolition of existing
houses in the Albina Area, with a mid-range estimate of 16 houses over the next 20 years. This is
balanced by a BHD provision that provides a transfer of development rights incentive for preserving
existing housing when this housing is kept affordable to households earning no more than 60
percent of area median family income. Other amendments promote historic preservation by
expanding options for transferring FAR from sites preserving historic resources, including making
this option available for Albina’s conservation districts, and by allowing additional amounts of FAR
to be transferred in conjunction with seismic upgrades to historic structures.
Objective 1. Encourage the reestablishment of neighborhood-oriented service and retail businesses.
Recognize the economic interrelationship between jobs, services and residential density by supporting
commercial areas with new housing al nearby locations.
305. Finding:  The BHD amendments support this policy by allowing limited amounts of ground-floor
commercial uses in multi-dwelling zones, with regulations based on provisions in the Albina
Community Plan District that provided this provision along NE Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard.
Other BHD amendments that shift from regulating development by unit density to regulating by
building scale, with flexibility for more units, will allow more people to be able to live close to
commercial services.
Objective 3. Review new infill development to ensure that it reinforces the neighborhood's positive
characteristics.
306. Finding:  The BHD amendments support this policy objective by expanding the Design Overlay (d-
overlay) Zone to apply to all properties in the RM3 and RM4 zones (current RH zone), including to
some properties in the Albina area that do not already have the d-overlay zone. Other BHD
amendments support this objective through regulations that will require staff review (through clear
and objective standards) to ensure that new development includes elements that reinforce the
positive characteristics of residential neighborhoods, such as through expanded requirements for
landscaped front setbacks, outdoor space, street-oriented entrances, and limitations on front
garages and parking.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy C: A Pattern of Green
Objective 1. Increase the amount of green and open space in the district.
Objective 5. Emphasize plant materials rather than hard surface treatments when developing public
open spaces and in providing landscaping as part of development projects.
Objective 6. Provide landscaping and street trees with new development and major remodeling
projects.
307. Finding:  The BHD amendments support these policy objectives by expanding requirements for
residential outdoor space in the multi-dwelling zones, including requirements for outdoor common
areas on large sites. Other amendments support these objectives by requiring deeper landscaped
front setbacks in multi-dwelling zones, providing opportunities for landscaping and small trees that
will foster greener street environments; limitations on large surface parking lots; and limitations on
front garages and driveways, which will allow for more street trees instead of the multiple driveway
curb cuts common with attached house development.
Policy E: Transit Supportive Land Use
Focus new development at locations along transportation corridors that offer opportunities for transit
supportive developments and foster the creation of good environments for pedestrians in these areas.
Objective 1. Increase opportunities for people to live near where they work and shop by locating
higher density housing near commercial and institutional areas.
Objective 2. Create opportunities for new housing development near Portland Community College's
Cascade Campus and near Concordia College.
Objective 4. Consider increasing allowable density to transit supportive levels at locations that are
within one-quarter mile of transit streets.
308. Finding:  The BHD amendments support this policy through provisions that provide flexibility for
more units on sites in multi-dwelling zones (primarily in the new RM1 and RM2 zones) and by
regulations that promote pedestrian-friendly street environments. 86 percent of multi-dwelling
zoning is within a quarter mile of streets with transit. This means that BHD amendments that allow
additional units on sites in multi-dwelling zones will allow more people to live close to transit. These
BHD amendments providing greater flexibility for numbers of housing units will also provide more
opportunities for housing close to commercial areas and Portland Community College (Cascade
Campus), as multi-dwelling zoning is located close to both. Other BHD amendments promote
pedestrian-oriented environments through requirements for street-oriented entrances and
limitations on front parking and garages
Policy Area II: Transportation
Objective 7. Concentrate new residential developments and commercial investment near transit
corridors.
309. Finding:  The BHD amendments support this policy objective through provisions that provide
flexibility for more units on sites in multi-dwelling zones (primarily in the new RM1 and RM2 zone),
most of which zoning is within a quarter mile of streets with transit. This policy objective is also
supported by amendments that allow for limited amounts of ground-floor commercial uses along
City and Neighborhood corridors, which also serve as transit corridors.
Policy Area V: Housing
Increase housing opportunities for current and future residents of the Albina Community by
preserving and rehabilitating the existing housing stock, constructing appropriate infill housing in
residential neighborhoods and building higher density housing near business centers and major transit
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

routes. Stimulate new housing investment by emphasizing the Albina Community's central location,
established public services, and qualify housing stock.
Objective 1. Improve the quality and quantity of housing for Albina residents. Provide a variety of
housing types for households of all sizes and incomes.
Objective 3. Provide opportunities for home ownership for Albina residents. Emphasize infill
development that accommodates owner-occupancy and is compatible with the surrounding
neighborhood.
Objective 4. Preserve and encourage the rehabilitation of existing sound housing, especially rental
housing.
310. Finding:  The BHD amendments support this policy through provisions that change regulations to
facilitate a diverse range of infill housing, incentives for preserving existing housing, and through
allowances for additional units close to commercial areas and transit. Amendments support a
broader diversity of housing types by shifting from regulating development by unit density to
instead regulating primarily by building scale, with flexibility for the number and types of units
within this scale. In the RM1 zone, the most broadly-mapped multi-dwelling zone, the amendments
allow for a wide range of housing types, from duplexes to fourplexes to courtyard apartments. This
is a change from regulations in the current R2 zone, where only two units are allowed on a typical
5,000 square foot lot. The BHD amendments promote a range of affordable housing opportunities
through expanded development bonuses for projects that include affordable housing, a new
development bonus focused on projects with deeper levels of affordability (for projects in which at
least half of units are affordable at no more than 60 percent of median family income), and through
a bonus oriented to moderate-income family housing with three-bedroom units. This moderate-
income family housing bonus is also intended to help expand ownership housing opportunities.
Other amendments provide incentives for the preservation of existing housing through a transfer of
development rights incentive that is provided in exchange for keeping units affordable at 60
percent of area median family income. As explained in other findings, other amendments facilitate
additional housing options near commercial areas and transit, and include regulations intended to
guide new development to be more compatible with residential neighborhoods.
Policy Area IX: Community Image and Character
Policy B: Urban Design
Improve the physical appearance of Albina. Enhance the desirable and distinctive characteristics of the
Albina Community and Its individual residential, commercial and employment districts. Strengthen
visual and physical connections to the rest of the city. Mark transitions into neighborhoods and
districts. Create a safe and pleasant environment for pedestrians. Strengthen the pattern of green that
exists throughout the Albina Community.
Objective 8. Protect and enhance Albina's historic and cultural characteristics and encourage
compatible, quality development.
311. Finding:  The BHD amendments support this policy by provisions that promote the compatibility of
multi-dwelling development with existing housing and encourage historic preservation. This
includes new approaches to regulating development that will facilitate a revival of the diverse mix
of multi-dwelling housing types – such as fourplexes and courtyard apartments – once common in
Albina and other inner neighborhoods, expanded requirements for outdoor spaces, and
requirements for landscaped front setbacks that will integrate higher-density development with the
characteristics of Albina’s residential neighborhoods. Limitations on street facing garages and
location of vehicle areas are also established to provide greater consistency with the characteristics
of Albina and other residential neighborhood areas and to ensure that new development enhances
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

the public realm of streets. Other amendments promote historic preservation by expanding options
for transferring FAR from sites preserving historic resources, including making this option available
for Albina’s conservation districts, and by allowing additional amounts of FAR to be transferred in
conjunction with seismic upgrades to historic structures.
Policy C: Historic Preservation
Protect the rich historic, cultural and architectural heritage of the Albina Community for its residents,
workers and visitors.
Objective 8. Encourage adaptive reuses of historic properties as long as the historic character of the
structures are maintained.
312. Finding:  The BHD amendments support this policy by expanding options for transferring FAR from
sites preserving historic resources, including making this option available for properties with
contributing structures in Albina’s conservation districts, and by allowing additional amounts of FAR
to be transferred in conjunction with seismic upgrades to historic structures. These FAR transfer
provisions are intended to provide incentives for preserving historic structures, providing an
additional way of gaining value for preservation.
Central City 2035 (2018)
Policy Area 2: Housing and Neighborhoods
Goal 2.A.  The Central City is a successful dense mixed-use center composed of livable neighborhoods
with housing, services and amenities that support the needs of people of all ages, incomes and
abilities.
Goal 2.B.  The Central City’s affordable housing supply maintains and supports the area’s growing
racial, ethnic and economic diversity.
313. Finding:  The BHD amendments have little impact on the Central City, as the amendments focus on
the RM1, RM2, RM3, and RM4 zones (current R2/R3, R1, RH) and do not amend the Central City
plan district, except for changes to zone names. Of these zones, the RM3 and RM4 zones (current
RH) have the most amount of land in the Central City (28 acres), and have FAR allowances
determined by Central City plan district regulations, so that development scale is not affected by
the BHD amendments. The primary impact the BHD amendments have on development allowances
in the Central City is to a small amount of land (11 acres) with the new RM1 (2 acres) and RM2 (9
acres) zones in the Goose Hollow district (corresponding current zones are R2 and R1). The
predominant multi-dwelling zone in the Central City is the RX zones, which is not substantially
affected by the BHD amendments. The BHD amendments therefore have little impact on these
policy goals.  For the small amount of area with the new RM1 and RM2 zones, the BHD
amendments shift from regulating development by unit density to regulating by building scale,
which will provide flexibility for a broader range of housing types, which is consistent with these
policy goals. Also consistent with these goals are the expanded affordable housing bonuses and the
visitable units bonus, which will promote affordable housing and accessible units in the RM1 and
RM2 zones.
Neighborhood Livability Policies
Policy 2.2.  Promote healthy active living. Design Central City neighborhoods to support physically
and socially active healthy lifestyles for all people through the inclusion of plazas, parks, open spaces,
and recreation opportunities, a safe and inviting public realm, access to healthy food and active
transportation and the density of development needed to support these economically.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy 2.8.  Family-compatible housing. Encourage the development of housing projects and units
that are compatible with the needs of families with children.
314. Finding:  The BHD amendments are supportive of these policies in the small amount of land area
where the amendments will apply. The BHD amendments expand requirements for residential
outdoor space and require common areas for large sites to provide opportunities for recreation
and growing food. In the small amount of land (11 acres) with the new RM1 and RM2 zones in the
Central City, the amendments provide a moderate income family housing bonus for projects where
at least half of the units have three bedrooms and are affordable to households earning no more
than 100 percent of area median income, which supports policy 2.8.
Housing Affordability Policies
Policy 2.10.  Minimize displacement. Maintain the economic and cultural diversity of established
communities in and around the Central City. Utilize investments, incentives and other policy tools to
minimize or mitigate involuntary displacement resulting from new development in the Central City
and close-in neighborhoods.
Policy 2.11.  Housing diversity. Create attractive, dense, high-quality affordable housing throughout
the Central City that accommodates a broad range of needs, preferences, and financial capability in
terms of different types, tenures, sizes, costs and locations. Support new housing opportunities for
students, families and older adults.
Policy 2.12.  Housing affordability. Encourage the preservation and production of affordable housing
to take advantage of the Central City’s unique concentration of active transportation access, jobs,
open spaces, and supportive services and amenities.
315. Finding:  The BHD amendments are supportive of these policies in the small amount of land area
where the amendments will apply. In small amount of land (11 acres) with the new RM1 and RM2
zones in the Central City, the BHD amendments address the need for a range of housing types and
prices through amendments that expand options for the numbers and types of housing units on
multi-dwelling zone sites. The BHD amendments promote a range of affordable housing
opportunities through expanded development bonuses for projects that include affordable
housing, a new development bonus focused on projects with deeper levels of affordability (for
projects in which at least half of units are affordable at no more than 60 percent of median family
income), and through a bonus oriented to moderate-income family housing with three-bedroom
units. This moderate-income family housing bonus is also intended to help expand ownership
housing opportunities. Policy 2.10 and displacement is addressed by an amendment that allows
development rights to be transferred from sites where existing housing is preserved, in exchange
for keeping units affordable at 60 percent of area median family income.
Housing and Neighborhoods: Goose Hollow Policies
Policy 2.GH-4.  Housing diversity. Support development that complements the distinctive residential
feel of the district, especially within the predominantly residential areas south of SW Columbia Street.
In particular, encourage multi-family housing supportive of families.
316. Finding:  The area of Goose Hollow south of SW Columbia Street includes majority of new RM1 and
RM2 zoning in the Central City, and also RM3 zoning (current RH). The BHD amendments support
this policy through provisions that will foster new development compatible with the residential
characteristics of the area and through a bonus for moderate-income family housing. Development
standards in the multi-dwelling zones in this area will require street-oriented entrances, small
landscaped setbacks, and will limit front garages and parking, which continue patterns established
by the Victorian-era and other older housing in the area. This policy is also supported by a bonus for
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

moderate-income family housing with three-bedroom units that will be available in the RM1 and
RM2 zones in the area.
Policy Area 5: Urban Design
Policy 5.6.  Distinct and vibrant districts. Enhance the existing character and diversity of the Central
City and its districts, strengthening existing places and fostering the creation of new urban places and
experiences.
Policy 5.GH-1.  Distinctive building character. Encourage the diversity and unique character of Goose
Hollow and its wide range of uses, building types, ages and scales. Seek ways to bring new uses and
energy into the district while maintaining positive characteristics of existing buildings.
317. Finding:  Policy 5.6 and the related Policy 5.GH-1 that is specific to Goose Hollow call for
encouraging the diversity and unique character of the area, which City Council interprets based on
the rest of the policy as including its wide range of land uses, building types, development eras and
building scale. While the Goose Hollow neighborhood includes a diversity of commercial and
residential uses and development forms, portions of the neighborhood within the Central City that
have multi-dwelling zoning are more consistently residential and include concentrations of
Victorian-era houses and other older housing, often with small landscaped setbacks. The BHD
amendments are supportive of these policies in the small amount of land area where the
amendments will apply. The area of Goose Hollow south of SW Columbia Street includes majority of
new RM1 and RM2 zoning in the Central City, and also RM3 zoning (current RH). The BHD
amendments support this policy through provisions that will foster new development compatible
with the residential characteristics of the area. Development standards in the multi-dwelling zones
in this area will require street-oriented entrances, small landscaped setbacks, and will limit front
garages and parking, which continue patterns established by the Victorian-era and other older
housing in the area.
Outer Southeast Community Plan (1996)
Transportation Policy
Ensure that streets in outer southeast form a network that provide for efficient travel throughout the
community and to other parts of Portland and the region. Reduce congestion and pollution caused by
the automobile by creating land use patterns that support transit, bike, and pedestrian travel.
Objective 1. Reduce the amount of automobile driving done by area residents by making it more
convenient to use public transit.
a. Increase housing densities within one-quarter mile of transit streets.
b. Encourage a mix of multifamily housing and shopping opportunities in areas with good transit
service.
Objective 2. Support better mass transit service by creating opportunities to develop higher density
housing on or near streets with public-transit service or planned public transit service. Ensure that this
housing blends in with that of surrounding residential areas.
Objective 7. Create through streets at frequent intervals.
Objective 8. Seek ways of providing connections for limited auto access and for full pedestrian and
bike access when practical difficulties prevent full street improvements.
318. Finding:  The BHD amendments support this policy through provisions that provide flexibility for
more units on sites in multi-dwelling zones (primarily in the new RM1 and RM2 zones) and by
regulations that promote pedestrian-friendly street environments. 86 percent of multi-dwelling
zoning is within a quarter mile of streets with transit. This means that BHD amendments that allow
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

additional units on sites in multi-dwelling zones will allow more people to live close to transit. This
policy is also supported by amendments that allow for limited amounts of ground-floor commercial
uses along City and Neighborhood corridors, which also serve as transit corridors. Other BHD
amendments will foster development that blends in with East Portland residential area
characteristics, such as requiring landscaped front setbacks and regulations specific to East that are
intended to keep the centers of the area’s large blocks greener and less built up. In conjunction
with the Bureau of Transportation’s Connected Centers Street Plan, the BHD amendments will help
facilitate creating additional street connections through requirements for sites in specified East
Portland centers to be large enough to accommodate new connections and outdoor spaces, and by
allowing development allowances to be calculated prior to street dedications to reduce barriers to
including new connections as part of development. Among the types of connections, the
combination of BHD amendments and Connected Centers Street Plan approaches are intended to
facilitate are public pedestrian connections when multi-modal connections are not feasible.
Housing Policy
Provide a variety of housing choices for outer southeast community residents of all income levels by
maintaining the existing sound housing stock and promoting new housing development.
Objective 2. Stimulate production of new housing units by both private and nonprofit housing
producers to accommodate expected population growth.
Objective 4. Promote construction of attached housing designed to be owner-occupied to
accommodate smaller households.
Objective 5. Increase opportunities for multifamily housing in areas convenient to shopping and
transit.
Objective 7. Preserve and increase the supply of housing affordable to households below the median
income.
319. Finding:  The BHD amendments support this policy and its objectives through provisions facilitating
a broad range of additional housing options and by providing incentives for creating or preserving
affordable housing units. These amendments include provisions that provide flexibility for more
units on sites in multi-dwelling zones (primarily in the new RM1 and RM2 zones). 80 percent of
multi-dwelling zoning is in or within a quarter mile of mixed use centers or transit corridors. This
means that BHD amendments that allow additional units on sites in multi-dwelling zones will allow
more people to live close to commercial services and transit. The amendments will facilitate a
broad range of housing types, including various types of attached housing, both ownership and
rental. The BHD amendments promote a range of affordable housing opportunities through
expanded development bonuses for projects that include affordable housing, a new development
bonus focused on projects with deeper levels of affordability (for projects in which at least half of
units are affordable at no more than 60 percent of median family income), and through a bonus
oriented to moderate-income family housing with three-bedroom units. This moderate-income
family housing bonus is also intended to help expand ownership housing opportunities. Other
amendments provide incentives for the preservation of existing housing through a transfer of
development rights incentive that is provided in exchange for keeping units affordable at 60
percent of area median family income.
Open Space and Environment Policy
Provide parks and open spaces to meet projected recreational needs of outer southeast residents.
Create a sense of connection with the natural environment. Protect natural resources by reducing the
impact of development on them.
Objective 9. Improve the appearance and livability of outer southeast neighborhoods.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

320. Finding:  The BHD amendments include provisions specific to East Portland that support this policy.
Amendments requiring deep rear setbacks in the Eastern Portland Pattern Area will help keep the
centers of the area’s large blocks greener and less built up, providing opportunities for preservation
of the Douglas fir trees that are sometime located on these large blocks. Other amendments allow
for development rights to be transferred from sites preserving large trees, which provides an
incentive for preserving the area’s Douglas firs. Additional BHD amendments will help improve the
appearance and livability of the area’s neighborhoods through expanded requirements for
landscaped front setbacks, outdoor space requirements, and limitations on front garages and large
surface parking lots.
Public Safety Policy
Apply CPTED principles to both public and private development projects. Encourage land use
arrangements and street patterns that provide more eyes on the street. Encourage site layouts and
building designs that encourage proprietary attitudes and natural surveillance over shared and public
spaces.
Objective 2. Encourage building designs that restrict access to areas vulnerable to crime such as
building entrances, sidewalks, parking lots, and loading and delivery areas. The following are examples
of how to carry out this idea.
a. Provide opportunities for retail uses on the ground floor perimeter of the building adjacent to
public areas. Encourage sidewalk cafes and coffee shops with windows overlooking sidewalks
and parking lots.
b. Locate windows in building walls that abut such public areas as sidewalks, plaza, parks, and
parking lots.
c. Situate windows so that building users can easily watch over sidewalks, parking, and
entrances. This will also make it easier to watch activities inside and facilitate police patrol.
d. Locate and design entrances so that they can be watched from both the street and from
inside the building.
Objective 3. Encourage development of new detached and attached residences with porches,
balconies, and windows that overlook the street. Set the garage back from the front of the building.
Objective 5. Encourage the construction of streets that connect in undeveloped or underdeveloped
parts of the plan area to facilitate the movement of police and fire emergency vehicles throughout the
area.
Objective 6. Promote connections that provide for pedestrians, bicycles, and motorized vehicles.
Avoid pedestrian-only connections in order to enhance surveillance over sidewalks.
321. Finding:  The BHD amendments support this policy and its objectives through provisions that
promote buildings oriented to streets and through allowances for ground-floor commercial uses on
major corridors. Amendments limiting front garages and requiring entrances and windows to be
oriented to streets will support passive surveillance of streets and sidewalks, facilitating “eyes on
the street.” Other amendments will allow for ground-floor commercial uses in multi-dwelling zones
along major corridors. Allowing these uses and the associated requirements for ground-floor
windows will bring additional activity and opportunities for passive surveillance along the area’s
major streets. In conjunction with the Bureau of Transportation’s Connected Centers Street Plan,
the BHD amendments will help facilitate creating additional multi-modal street connections
through requirements for sites in specified East Portland centers to be large enough to
accommodate new connections and outdoor spaces, and by allowing development allowances to
be calculated prior to street dedications to reduce barriers to including new connections as part of
development.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Subarea Policy I – Traditional Urban Neighborhoods
Preserve the fabric of these traditional residential neighborhoods and streetcar era commercial
districts. Promote construction of new housing on or near transit streets and "Main Street"
development on portions of Foster Road, Stark, and Glisan Streets. Encourage infill development.
Objective 3. Create opportunities for new multifamily housing along streets with transit service.
Objective 4. Encourage compatible infill at densities which support transit on vacant lots in
established residential areas.
322. Finding:  The BHD amendments support this policy and its objectives through provisions facilitating
compatible infill development and providing flexibility for additional housing units. These
amendments provide flexibility for more units on sites in multi-dwelling zones (primarily in the new
RM1 and RM2 zones), the majority of which (86 percent) is within a quarter mile of streets with
transit. Amendments facilitate compact infill development by reducing requirements for off-street
parking and side and rear setbacks. Other amendments address the compatibility of infill
development with existing residential neighborhoods through requirements for landscaped front
setbacks, limitations on front garages and vehicle areas, and expanded requirements for outdoor
space.
Subarea Policy II – 82nd Avenue/I-205 Corridor
Promote the revitalization of 82nd Avenue. Increase the number and variety of jobs provided in these
areas. Enlarge the market for local retail and service businesses by increasing housing opportunity.
Objective 4. Create opportunity for higher-density residential development along transit streets and in
areas with vacant residential land.
323. Finding:  The BHD amendments support this policy providing flexibility for additional housing units
in the multi-dwelling zones. These amendments provide flexibility for more units on sites in multi-
dwelling zones (primarily in the new RM1 and RM2 zone), including within the 82nd Avenue Corridor
and near I-205.
Subarea Policy III - Lents Town Center Policy
Foster the development of a Lents Town Center that attracts employment opportunities, residential
density, and recreational activities while reducing adverse environmental impacts.
Objective 4. Ensure a wide range of housing in terms of structure, ownership, rental patterns, and
price.
324. Finding:  The BHD amendments support this policy providing flexibility for additional housing units
in the multi-dwelling zones. These amendments provide flexibility for more units on sites in multi-
dwelling zones (primarily in the new RM1 and RM2 zones), including within the Lents Town Center
area. Amendments support a broader diversity of housing types by shifting from regulating
development by unit density to instead regulating primarily by building scale, with flexibility for the
number and types of units within this scale. In the RM1 zone, the most broadly-mapped multi-
dwelling zone, the amendments allow for a wide range of housing types, from duplexes to
fourplexes to courtyard apartments. This is a change from regulations in the current R2 zone,
where only two units are allowed on a typical 5,000 square foot lot. The BHD amendments promote
a range of affordable housing opportunities through expanded development bonuses for projects
that include affordable housing, a new development bonus focused on projects with deeper levels
of affordability (for projects in which at least half of units are affordable at no more than 60 percent
of median family income), and through a bonus oriented to moderate-income family housing with
three-bedroom units. This moderate-income family housing bonus is also intended to help expand
ownership housing opportunities.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Subarea Policy V – MAX LRT Corridor
Ensure that private development reinforces and is reinforced by the public light rail investment by
encouraging development of intense commercial and dense residential uses near the MAX light rail
stations.
Objective 2. Improve the pedestrian orientation of buildings and streets around light rail stations.
Objective 3. Increase housing densities within one-quarter mile of a transit stop to at least medium-
density multifamily, as the appropriate opportunity arises, and apply transit-supportive zones to
commercially-zoned land.
Objective 4. Increase housing densities within one-half mile of the light rail stations to at least the
higher density single family designations as the appropriate opportunity arises.
Objective 5. Establish through connections at approximately 400-foot intervals from east to west and
north to south directions as the opportunity exists.
325. Finding:  The BHD amendments support this policy by providing flexibility for additional housing
units in the multi-dwelling zones and by including approaches to facilitate additional street
connections. Multi-dwelling zoning located in the MAX transit station areas plays an important role
in providing opportunities for transit-supportive concentrations of housing in these locations. BHD
amendments that shift from regulating development by unit density to regulating by building scale,
with flexibility for more units, will further support these policies by expanding housing capacity in
multi-dwelling zones located in the transit station areas. Policy direction for street connections in
these areas is supported by BHD amendments intended to facilitate new multi-modal connections
in the 122nd Avenue and 148th Avenue station areas, through requirements for sites to be large
enough to accommodate new connections (as well as to support better site design) and by allowing
development allowances to be calculated prior to street dedications to reduce barriers to including
new connections as part of development. Other amendments support this policy by requiring
pedestrian-oriented street frontages, such as street-oriented entrances and limitations on front
garages and parking.
Subarea Policy VI – Suburban Neighborhoods
Enhance established suburban neighborhoods by improving connections to transit and shopping,
reinforcing transit, providing new open space and focusing development on infill and opportunity
sites.
Objective 2. Increase the density of areas that are currently zoned multifamily on streets with transit
service. Locate higher densities on streets with more frequent transit service.
Objective 3. Redevelop large vacant or underused "opportunity" sites for high density housing.
326. Finding:  The BHD amendments support this policy and its objectives through provisions providing
flexibility for additional housing units. These amendments provide flexibility for more units on sites
in multi-dwelling zones (primarily in the new RM1 and RM2 zone), the majority of which (86
percent) is along or within a quarter mile of streets with transit. Other amendments address the
compatibility of infill development with existing residential neighborhoods through requirements
for landscaped front setbacks, limitations on front garages and vehicle areas, and expanded
requirements for outdoor space.
Subarea Policy VII – Mixed-Era Neighborhoods
Provide for the orderly development of new housing at urban densities and ensure that residential
areas are served by convenient neighborhood commercial centers and transit.
Objective 2. Encourage new multifamily housing to locate along neighborhood collectors with transit
service.
Objective 3. Encourage multifamily housing to be developed along 122nd Avenue.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Objective 4. Promote new streets that form a network that accommodates an efficient development
pattern, regular lot patterns, multi-modal capability, and multiple access fox emergency vehicles
Objective 5. Use alternative street standards to achieve connectivity where standard city streets are
not possible due to lot configuration, existing development, etc.
327. Finding:  The BHD amendments support this policy and its objectives through provisions providing
flexibility for additional housing units and approaches that facilitate the creation of new street
connections. These amendments provide flexibility for more units on sites in multi-dwelling zones,
primarily in the new RM1 and RM2 zones, which are the primary multi-dwelling zones located along
the areas major corridors, such as SE 122nd. Policy direction for street connections in this area is
supported by BHD amendments intended to facilitate new multi-modal connections in the
122nd/Midway Town Center area, through requirements for sites to be large enough to
accommodate new connections (as well as to support better site design) and by allowing
development allowances to be calculated prior to street dedications to reduce barriers to including
new connections as part of development. These amendments are being proposed in conjunction
with the Bureau of Transportation’s Connected Centers Street Plan, which establishes narrower
types of street connections designed to fit on constrained infill sites.
Southwest Community Plan (2000)
Land Use and Urban Form
Enhance Southwest Portland’s sense of place as a community and a collection of distinct
neighborhoods. Accommodate Southwest Portland’s share of regional growth while protecting the
environment in all areas. Encourage the realization of compact, transit and pedestrian-friendly, mixed-
use centers while responding to the need for a range of housing types and prices. Outside of the
mixed-use areas, allow infill housing opportunities which increase neighborhood diversity, stability
and home ownership while limiting redevelopment.
328. Finding:  The multi-dwelling zones in Southwest Portland are primarily clustered in and around the
area’s mixed-use centers and corridors, including the Hillsdale, West Portland, and Multnomah
Village centers, and along the Beaverton-Hillsdale and Barbur corridors.  The BHD amendments are
consistent with this policy because they facilitate these areas becoming compact, transit and
pedestrian-friendly places, in keeping with this policy direction. The BHD amendments help achieve
this by providing flexibility for additional units in the multi-dwelling zones and by regulations
intended to foster transit- and pedestrian-oriented places, such as through requirements for street-
oriented entrances and limitations on front parking and garages. The BHD amendments are also
consistent with this policy by requirements that support continuation of Southwest Portland’s
green characteristics through expanded requirements for landscaped front setbacks, increased
requirements for residential outdoor space, and incentives for preserving large trees.  BHD
amendments address the need for a range of housing types and prices through amendments that
expand options for the numbers and types of housing units on multi-dwelling zone sites. The BHD
amendments promote a range of affordable housing opportunities through expanded development
bonuses for projects that include affordable housing, a new development bonus focused on
projects with deeper levels of affordability (for projects in which at least half of units are affordable
at no more than 60 percent of median family income), and through a bonus oriented to moderate-
income family housing with three-bedroom units. This moderate-income family housing bonus is
also intended to help expand ownership housing opportunities.
I. Community-wide Objectives
Objective 1. Ensure compatibility of new development with Southwest Portland's positive qualities.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Objective 2. Encourage innovative designs in public and private development that are in harmony with
the natural character of Southwest Portland.
Objective 3. Ensure that zoning designations represent densities that are likely to be achieved.
(a) Focus new housing and employment opportunities in “mixed-use areas” in Southwest Portland: in
town centers, main streets, and at designated areas along corridors.
(b) Encourage redevelopment that has clear public benefit, fewer adverse consequences, minimal
environmental limitations and adequate infrastructure.
Objective 5. Support protection of historic and scenic resources in Southwest Portland.
Objective 6. Develop zoning, subdivision and design tools to promote infill development that is
compatible with the desired character of established residential areas.
329. Finding:  The BHD amendments support these policy objectives through provisions that promote
design that integrates with Southwest Portland characteristics, by expanding housing opportunities
in mixed-use centers and corridors, and by providing additional tools for preserving historic
resources. These include amendments that support the continuation in multi-dwelling zones of
Southwest Portland’s green characteristics through expanded requirements for landscaped front
setbacks, increased requirements for residential outdoor space, requirements for common outdoor
areas for large sites, and incentives for preserving large trees. Stormwater and other environmental
impacts are limited by restrictions on the size of large surface parking lots and by provisions for
ecoroofs and stormwater planters. The flexibility for additional units provided by other BHD
amendments reinforces the policy direction for focusing housing opportunities in the area’s mixed-
use centers, main streets, and corridors, given the location of multi-dwelling zoning in and around
these areas. Economic analysis, summarized in the Recommended Draft Appendix C, indicates that
the development allowances in the new RM1 and RM2 zones (current R2 and R1) that predominate
in the area are feasible. Amendments support historic preservation by expanding options for
transferring FAR from sites preserving historic resources and by allowing additional amounts of FAR
to be transferred in conjunction with seismic upgrades to historic structures. These FAR transfer
provisions are intended to provide incentives for preserving historic structures by providing
additional ways of gaining value for preservation.
II. Additional objectives for mixed use areas
A. General Objectives
Objective 2. Create land use patterns that support transit and foster a positive environment for
pedestrians in Southwest Portland’s town centers, main streets, and at designated areas along
corridors.
Objective 3. Encourage development within main streets and town centers that enhances commercial
vitality and the desired characteristics of these areas.
Objective 4 Encourage employment and housing growth in Southwest Portland’s town centers, main
streets, and at designated areas along corridors, while effectively managing stormwater runoff and
protecting creeks and waterways.
Objective 5. Ensure that plan designations and zoning in mixed-use areas are flexible enough:
(a) to allow a wide range of commercial, high density residential, and employment opportunities.
(b) that, when subsequent master plan processes are begun, such designations will not act as a
hindrance to the planning effort.
Objective 6. Balance the need for higher density residential and mixed-use development with the
preservation of single family detached homes on small lots in the town centers, main streets and
corridors, to promote a diversity of housing options in these areas.
Objective 8. Enhance the environment for pedestrians in Southwest Portland’s town centers, main
streets, and transit corridors
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

330. Finding:  The BHD amendments support these policy objectives through provisions that promote
transit- and pedestrian-oriented development, by facilitating a diverse range of compact
development in multi-dwelling zones in the areas mixed-use centers and corridors, and by
providing options that help limit environmental impacts. The BHD amendments achieve this by
regulations that foster transit- and pedestrian-oriented places, such as through requirements for
street-oriented entrances, limitations on front parking and garages, and flexibility for greater
numbers of housing units, allowing more people to live close to transit. Amendments allowing more
housing in the multi-dwelling zones also enables more population to support the vitality of the
area’s commercial districts, while other amendments that expand front setback and outdoor area
requirements support continuation of the green characteristics of the area’s multi-dwelling zones.
Stormwater and other environmental impacts are addressed in part by restrictions on the size of
large surface parking lots and by provisions for ecoroofs and stormwater planters. Other
amendments support continuation of existing houses in multi-dwelling zones by providing flexibility
to add accessory dwelling units or to add units through internal conversions without having to meet
minimum density requirements.
B. Town Center Objectives
Objective 1. When increasing residential and employment density in Southwest Portland, place the
highest density within town centers.
Objective 2. Within the boundaries of town centers, create transitions along the edges that respect
the planned density, design, scale and character of the contiguous neighborhoods.
331. Finding:  The BHD amendments support these policy objectives by the fact that the area’s largest
areas of multi-dwelling zoning are concentrated in centers, including the Hillsdale and West
Portland town centers, and by provisions that require large buildings to step down in height
adjacent to single-dwelling zoning, providing transitions to lower-density neighborhoods.
Amendments also support transitions by reducing the allowed height in the RM1 zone (current R2)
to 35 feet, similar to heights allowed in single-dwelling zones, improving the ability of this zone to
provide a transition to single-dwelling zones from the larger-scale commercial/mixed use zones
located in the core areas of centers.
C. Main Street Objectives
Objective 1. Respect the planned density, design, scale and character of the contiguous neighborhood
when increasing residential and employment density within main streets.
332. Finding:  The BHD amendments support this policy objectives by provisions that require large
buildings to step down in height adjacent to single-dwelling zoning, providing transitions to lower-
density neighborhoods. Amendments also support transitions by reducing the allowed height in the
RM1 zone (current R2) to 35 feet, similar to heights allowed in single-dwelling zones, improving the
ability of this zone to provide a transition to single-dwelling zones. Other amendments contribute
to integrating development in the multi-dwelling zones with existing residential areas by expanding
requirements for landscaped front setbacks and outdoor space.
D. Corridor Objectives
Objective 1. Encourage transit-supportive concentrations of housing and employment density at
appropriate locations.
Objective 2. Emphasize a high-quality pedestrian and bicycle environment and convenient access to
public transportation along corridors.
333. Finding:  The BHD amendments support these policy objectives by allowing increased housing
density in the multi-dwelling zones and by provisions that foster transit- and pedestrian-oriented
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

design. The BHD amendments provide flexibility for more units on sites in the RM1 and RM2 zones
(current R2 and R1), which are the multi-dwellings located along Southwest Portland’s corridors.
The expanding housing options will allow more people to live close to the corridors’ transit options.
The BHD amendments also help foster transit- and pedestrian-oriented places through
requirements for street-oriented entrances and limitations on front parking and garages.
Economic Development
Enhance Southwest Portland’s sense of place as a community and a collection of distinct
neighborhoods. Accommodate Southwest Portland’s share of regional growth while protecting the
environment in all areas. Encourage the realization of compact, transit and pedestrian-friendly, mixed-
use centers while responding to the need for a range of housing types and prices. Outside of the
mixed-use areas, allow infill housing opportunities which increase neighborhood diversity, stability
and home ownership while limiting redevelopment.
334. Finding:  The multi-dwelling zones in Southwest Portland are primarily clustered in and around the
area’s mixed-use centers and corridors.  The BHD amendments are consistent with this policy
because they facilitate these areas becoming compact, transit and pedestrian-friendly places, in
keeping with this policy direction. The BHD amendments help achieve this by providing flexibility for
additional units in the multi-dwelling zones and by regulations intended to foster transit- and
pedestrian-oriented places, such as through requirements for street-oriented entrances and
limitations on front parking and garages. BHD amendments address the need for a range of housing
types and prices through amendments that expand options for the numbers and types of housing
units on multi-dwelling zone sites. The BHD amendments promote a range of affordable housing
opportunities through expanded development bonuses for projects that include affordable
housing, a new development bonus focused on projects with deeper levels of affordability (for
projects in which at least half of units are affordable at no more than 60 percent of median family
income), and through a bonus oriented to moderate-income family housing with three-bedroom
units. This moderate-income family housing bonus is also intended to help expand ownership
housing opportunities.
Economic Development Objectives
Objective 3. Support opportunities for startup and in-home business and telecommuting as a way of
reducing vehicle miles traveled while promoting economic diversification.
Objective 7. Encourage the provision of ground floor retail and services in office buildings and in
multifamily housing projects.
335. Finding:  The BHD amendments support these policy objectives by allowing ground-floor
commercial uses in multi-dwelling zones along major corridors, such as SW Beaverton-Hillsdale
Highway. This will allow small-scale retail and service uses as part of multi-dwelling development on
these busy streets, and also provide opportunities for live-work arrangements that allow people to
combine a street-fronting business with their home.
Housing
Provide a variety of affordable housing choices adequate to meet the needs of current and future
Southwest residents.  Regard the existing housing stock as one resource to meet this need. Encourage
development of housing types that will increase home ownership opportunities for Southwest
residents.
336. Finding:  BHD amendments address the need for a range of housing types and prices through
amendments that expand options for the numbers and types of housing units on multi-dwelling
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

zone sites. The BHD amendments promote a range of affordable housing opportunities through
expanded development bonuses for projects that include affordable housing, a new development
bonus focused on projects with deeper levels of affordability (for projects in which at least half of
units are affordable at no more than 60 percent of median family income), and through a bonus
oriented to moderate-income family housing with three-bedroom units. This moderate-income
family housing bonus is also intended to help expand ownership housing opportunities. Other
amendments provide incentives for preserving existing affordable housing through a transfer of
development rights incentive that is provided in exchange for keeping units affordable at 60
percent of area median family income.
Objective 1. Provide opportunities to achieve the development of new housing units over the next 20
years to accommodate new residents and the shift to smaller households.
Objective 2. Provide for diversity of size, type, and affordability of housing to meet the needs of young
adults, small and large families, empty nesters, the elderly, and others.
Objective 3. Increase opportunity for building more detached single family housing by reducing
minimum lot sizes and encouraging the construction of smaller size houses.
337. Finding:  The BHD amendments support these policy objectives by allowing greater flexibility in the
number and types of housing units on multi-dwelling zone sites. Amendments support a broader
diversity of housing types by shifting from regulating development by unit density to instead
regulating primarily by building scale, with flexibility for the number and types of units within this
scale. In the RM1 zone, the most broadly-mapped multi-dwelling zone, the amendments allow for a
wide range of housing types, from duplexes to fourplexes to courtyard apartments. This is a change
from regulations in the current R2 zone, where only two units are allowed on a typical 5,000 square
foot lot. The amendments also provide increased flexibility for clusters of detached houses on
multi-dwelling sites, while the FAR limits mean that these houses will need to be smaller in
exchange for greater density. Also consistent with these policy objectives, the amendments include
a bonus for visitable or accessible units, providing an incentive for the creation of barrier-free units
accessible to people of all ages and abilities.
Affordability and Home Ownership Objectives
Objective 5. Encourage public and private developers to vary the affordability, type and size of units in
new housing developments to foster the development of inclusive communities.
Objective 7. Increase the supply of affordable rental housing of all types for families. This includes
units with three or more bedrooms.
Objective 8. Increase Southwest Portland’s supply of housing affordable to households below the
median income.
Objective 9. Encourage the provision of an adequate supply of mixed-income housing so that those
working in Southwest can live near where they work.
338. Finding:  BHD amendments address the need for a range of housing types and prices through
amendments that expand options for the numbers and types of housing units on multi-dwelling
zone sites. The BHD amendments promote a range of affordable housing opportunities through
expanded development bonuses for projects that include affordable housing, a new development
bonus focused on projects with deeper levels of affordability (for projects in which at least half of
units are affordable at no more than 60 percent of median family income), and through a bonus
oriented to moderate-income family housing with three-bedroom units. This moderate-income
family housing bonus is also intended to help expand ownership housing opportunities. These
affordable housing bonuses allow for a mix of incomes, as none of the bonuses require more than
half of units to meet affordability criteria. Other amendments provide incentives for preserving
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

existing affordable housing through a transfer of development rights allowance that is provided in
exchange for keeping units affordable at 60 percent of area median family income.
Northwest District Plan (2005)
339. Finding:  The BHD amendments affect the Northwest District Plan at two different levels. On one
level are the citywide changes to the multi-dwelling zones that apply to the multi-dwelling zoning in
the plan area.  At a more specific level, are the historic district zoning map and zoning code changes
that apply to the Alphabet Historic District. These findings cover both types of changes.
Policy 1: Land Use
Participate in the growth of the metropolitan region in a manner that protects and enhances the
quality of life in the Northwest District. Enhance the district’s sense of place as a distinct yet diverse
community, with an active mix of housing and businesses.
340. Finding:  The Northwest District Plan vision statement outlines a range of things that are important
to the district’s quality of life and distinct sense of place. Among these are its lively main streets
with a mix of commercial services, upper-level housing and institutions; its distinct residential areas
with differing mixes of single-family homes and multi-family housing – with a quieter character than
the busy main streets; its variety of housing types meeting the needs of a diverse range of
residents; its diversity of cultural and religious institutions and employment; its urban amenities
such as parks; and its preserved architectural heritage of historic structures in the Alphabet Historic
District. The BHD amendments contribute to these desired characteristics in a number of ways:
 Alphabet Historic District map changes will enhance the district’s distinct sense of place by
adjusting the allowed building scale (FAR) to better match the scale of the existing historic
context. Map amendments apply the smaller-scale RM3 zone to areas of the historic district
with current RH zoning north of NW Glisan Street to reflect the relatively small scale of historic
buildings in this area, while the map amendments apply the larger-scale RM4 zone south of NW
Glisan Street to correspond to the larger scale of historic building in that area. These map
changes are explained in findings for Comprehensive Plan Policy 4.49.
 Amendments require front setbacks or courtyards in the multi-dwelling zones, which will
integrate new development with the area’s residential characteristics and will help contribute
toward vision statement aspirations for keeping these areas distinct from the busy commercial
main streets. Limitation on front garages and front parking will also continue the characteristics
of the district’s residential areas.
 New requirements for outdoor space in the RM3 and RM4 zones (current RH zone) will
contribute to residential quality of life and allow for options, such as courtyards, that provide
continuity with historic housing types in the district.
 BHD amendments that expand options for the numbers and types of housing in the multi-
dwelling zones, combined with incentives for affordable units and family-sized units, which will
contribute to vision statement aspirations for diverse housing for a diverse population.
 Allowances for inclusionary housing development bonus for projects in the mixed use zones in
the Alphabet Historic District will facilitate a mix of ground-floor commercial uses and upper-
level residential units along the area’s main streets, contributing to the “active mix of housing
and businesses” called for in this policy.
Objective A. Support land use strategies and developments that increase the amount of housing in
the district.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

341. Finding:  The BHD amendments expand options for the numbers and types of housing units on
multi-dwelling zone sites. The BHD amendments also promote a range of affordable housing
opportunities through expanded development bonuses for projects that include affordable
housing.
Objective C. Concentrate a mix of higher intensity residential and commercial development along
main streets and the Portland Streetcar line.
342. Finding:  The BHD amendments expand development bonuses for affordable housing for mixed use
zones within historic districts, which is the predominant zoning designation along the area’s main
streets, which will facilitate mixed-use development with upper level housing. The BHD
amendments do not affect the Northwest Plan District requirements for active uses, such as
commercial, along the area’s main streets.
Objective F. Support small-scale developments that are oriented to pedestrian use.
343. Finding:  This policy reflects the Northwest District Plan’s design aspirations to continue the area’s
established patterns of development on relatively small sites, with residential structures in the area
typically on small lots of about 5,000 or sometimes 10,000 square feet, in contrast to the full-block
development common in the nearby Pearl District. The BHD amendments promote small-scale
development through reduced side and rear setbacks, which facilitates compact development on
small sites; and through requirements for large building facades to be divided into smaller
components, which will help integrate larger buildings with patterns of the Northwest District. The
BHD amendments enhance pedestrian orientation by requiring building entrances oriented to
streets or courtyards, and by limiting front garages and front parking along street frontages.
Objective G. Promote development that includes useable public outdoor spaces such as plazas, play
areas, gardens, and pocket parks.
344. Finding:  The BHD amendments include a new requirement for outdoor area per unit in the RM3
and RM4 zones, which are mapped in a large portion of the Northwest District, which can be met
by common areas such as courtyards. The BHD amendments also require shared common areas for
large sites (20,000+ square feet), which will provide opportunities outdoor spaces such as plazas,
play areas, and gardens for residents.
Policy 4: Parking
Provide and manage parking to serve the community while protecting and enhancing the livability and
urban character of the district.
Objective A. Reduce the demand for automobile parking.
345. Finding:  This policy and its objectives provides direction on managing parking resources, including
on-street parking and shared parking facilities, in ways that preserve the pedestrian-friendly
character of the district. The BHD amendments support this policy and its objectives in a number of
ways, indicated in the findings below for each of this policy’s objectives. Amendments requiring
multi-dwelling development to meet Transportation and Parking Demand Management
requirements, such as by providing residents with transit passes or bike share membership, align
with Objective A’s call for reducing demand for automobile parking.
Objective B. Provide for efficient use of on- and off-street parking through such means as “shared
use” of parking facilities and minimizing the number and size of curb cuts.
346. Finding:  BHD amendments limiting front garages and associated driveways align with this policy
objective’s call for minimizing the number and size of curb cuts, which will help preserve on-street
parking and allow for more efficient use of this parking resource. Limitations on front garages and
front parking also align with the policy’s call for preserving the pedestrian-friendly character of the
district.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Objective C. Accommodate a limited amount of additional structured off-street commercial parking
while preserving the overall pedestrian-friendly character of the district, and mitigating for negative
impacts.
347. Finding:  The BHD amendments do not affect off-street commercial parking, but amendments align
with this policy in limiting front garages and front parking to foster pedestrian-friendly street
frontages.
Objective H. Encourage new off-street parking to locate within structures.
348. Finding:  BHD amendments support this objective by creating a new incentive for structured
parking in the multi-dwelling zones by not counting structured parking, up to 0.5:1 FAR, against the
maximum FAR limits, which supports the policy direction in Objective H.
Objective I. Limit the size of new surfacing parking lots.
349. Finding:  BHD amendments support this objective by limiting the size of new surface parking lots (to
a maximum of 30% of site area).
Policy 5: Housing
Retain the district’s existing housing stock and mix of types and tenures. Promote new housing
opportunities that reflect the existing diversity of housing and support a population diverse in income,
age, and household size.
350. Finding:  The Northwest District has all four types (RM1-RM4) of multi-dwelling zoning and the map
designations, except for the historic district adjustments, conform to the current zoning patterns.
The BHD amendments expand options for the numbers and types of housing units on multi-
dwelling zone sites. The BHD amendments also promote a range of affordable housing
opportunities through expanded development bonuses for projects that include affordable
housing.
Objective A. Increase the number of housing units in the district, including rental and ownership
opportunities for current and future district residents.
351. Finding:  The BHD amendments expand options for the numbers and types of housing units on
multi-dwelling zone sites, and include development bonuses for both rental and ownership
affordable housing.
Objective B. Increase the supply of housing that is affordable, accessible to a full range of incomes,
and provides for special needs housing.
352. Finding:  The BHD amendments promote a range of affordable housing opportunities through
expanded development bonuses for projects that include affordable housing.
Objective C. Retain the existing supply of rental housing units affordable to the district’s low- and very
low- income households.
353. Finding:  This policy objective responds to concerns discussed in the Northwest District Plan
regarding the potential loss of the area’s existing (non-regulated) affordable rental apartments
through conversion to more expensive apartments or to market-rate ownership housing. BHD
amendments support this policy objective through a new allowance for FAR to be transferred from
sites where existing affordable housing is preserved (must remain affordable to households earning
no more than 60% of area median income).
Objective D. Encourage housing developments that accommodate a variety of living situations and
support the district’s diverse population.
354. Finding:  The BHD amendments support this policy objective through expanded options for the
numbers and types of housing units on multi-dwelling zone sites, especially with the shift to
regulating density by FAR in the RM1 and RM2 zones. The BHD amendments also promote a range
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

of affordable housing opportunities through expanded development bonuses for projects that
include affordable housing and through a moderate-income bonus for three-bedroom units that
are large enough for families.
Objective E. Encourage the development of mixed-use projects that include housing in all commercial
and most employment zones.
355. Finding:  The BHD amendments provide development bonuses for affordable housing for mixed use
zones within historic districts, which is the predominant zoning designation along the district’s main
streets, which will promote mixed-use projects that include housing.
Objective F. Encourage the renovation and rehabilitation of existing housing as a preferred alternative
to clearance and redevelopment.
356. Finding:  The BHD amendments support this policy objective and promote renovation of existing
housing through allowances for FAR to be transferred to other sites in exchange for preserving
historic structures, seismic upgrades to historic building, and for the preservation of existing
affordable housing.
Objective H. Encourage an increase of ownership opportunities through new development rather than
conversion of existing rental housing stock.
357. Finding:  This policy objective is supported by BHD amendments that provide a deeper housing
affordable bonus for new ownership housing, affordable to households earning up to 80% of area
median income, as well as by a new allowance for FAR to be transferred from sites where existing
housing is being preserved and kept affordable to households earning no more than 60% of area
median income.
Objective I. Increase the supply of housing attractive to families with children.
358. Finding:  The BHD amendments support this policy objective through a development bonus for
projects with three-bedroom units that are affordable to households earning no more than 100% of
area median income.
Policy 7: Urban Design
Respect the urban design principles and architectural qualities that define the district’s human-scaled,
pedestrian-oriented character.
Objective A. Integrate new development with the existing urban fabric by acknowledging the scale,
proportions, orientation, quality of construction and other architectural and site design elements of
the building’s immediate area.
Objective C. Preserve and enhance the distinct character of different parts of the Northwest District.
359. Finding:  This policy and its policy objectives A and C relate to urban design concepts explained in
the “Desired Characteristics and Traditions” section of the Northwest District Plan, which outlines
how the district’s architectural character and urban fabric varies in several distinct “urban character
areas.” The Northwest District Plan indicates that this section should be referenced when the plan
makes references to “the Northwest District’s architectural character and urban fabric.” The
majority of the district’s multi-dwelling zoning, including areas of the Alphabet Historic District with
current RH zoning where the new RM3 and RM4 zones are being applied, are located in the Nob
Hill Residential Areas. The Desired Characteristics and Traditions statement for this area states:
“Most parts of the Nob Hill Residential Areas are located within the Alphabet Historic District,
where historically and architecturally significant structures should be preserved. Throughout the
Nob Hill Residential Areas, new development should utilize design elements that distinguish the
residential side streets from the more intensely hardscaped main streets, with street frontages
divided into distinct components that continue the established fine-grain urban pattern.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Development should also acknowledge the scale, proportions, and street orientation of existing
Pre-World War II structures and continue the areas’ diverse range of building typologies.”
The BHD amendments support this policy and objectives A and C, as they pertain to the multi-
dwelling zones in the Nob Hill Residential Areas in several ways:
 Amendments requiring landscaped front setbacks or courtyards in the multi-dwelling zones will
contribute to distinguishing residential side streets from the hardscape of the main streets.
 Amendments that promote street-facing courtyards and that require that large building
facades are divided into small components will be consistent with the area’s fine-grain urban
pattern, which consists of development with building facades typically no wider than 50 to 100-
feet in width.
 Requirements for street-oriented entrances and limitation on front parking and garages will be
consistent with street- and pedestrian-orientation of the area’s historic buildings.
 Alphabet Historic District map changes will foster new development that is more in keeping
with the scale of historic buildings in the historic district. In the portion of the Alphabet Historic
District north of NW Glisan Street and east of NW 21st Avenue, which currently has RH zoning
with a 4:1 base FAR, City Council decided to assign the RM3 zone (with a 2:1 base FAR and 3:1
bonus FAR) to correspond to the scale of historic buildings in this area, where 90 percent of the
historic properties in the RH zone in this area have existing FARs of 2:1 FAR or less, with smaller
numbers of historic buildings with FARs up to around an FAR of 3:1 (this is documented in a
map [Map 2: Existing Building Floor Area Ratios] that is included in material from the Planning
and Sustainability Commission work session on April 9, 2019). In the portion of the Alphabet
Historic District generally south of NW Glisan Street between NW 21st and NW 23rd avenues
that currently has RH zoning with a 2:1 base FAR, City Council decided to assign the RM4 zone
(with a 3:1 base FAR and a 4.5:1 bonus FAR in historic districts) to correspond to the larger
scale of historic buildings in this area, which has a concentration of historic buildings with FARs
ranging from more than 2:1 to around 4:1. The FAR map analysis found that larger historic
buildings in the current RH zone are clustered in areas of the Alphabet Historic District south of
NW Glisan Street, with smaller buildings more predominant in the RH zone north of this street.
City Council decided to assign the larger scale RM4 zone and smaller scale RM3 zone to
correspond to these historic development patterns.
Objective G. Encourage building designs that consider solar access impacts on streets and other public
spaces.
360. Finding:  The BHD amendments including increased front building setbacks along street frontages,
which will reduce shadowing on streets from buildings and provide more opportunity for light.
Objective I. Discourage the creation of new vehicle areas between the fronts of residential buildings
and streets.
361. Finding:  The BHD amendments limiting front garages and parking along street frontages.
Policy 8: Historic Preservation
Identify, preserve, and protect historic resources and support development that enhances the historic
qualities of the district.
Objective A. Promote restorations and renovations of residential and commercial structures that
maintain the historic style, quality, and character of the original building.
Objective B. Encourage adaptive reuse of historic resources that maintain their historic character.
362. Finding: The BHD amendments support this policy and objectives A and C through map changes in
the Alphabet Historic District that will adjust the allowed building scale (primarily FAR) to better
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

match the scale of the existing historic context, which will promote development that relates to and
enhances the historic qualities of the district. The changes also include a transfer program that
grants an FAR transfer allowance of up to 50 percent of the base FAR for historic buildings that
undertake seismic upgrades, which will support the renovation and reuse of historic buildings. BHD
amendments that allow FAR to be transferred citywide to sites in both the multi-dwelling and
mixed-use zones in exchange for preservation of historic buildings are also intended to facilitate
FAR transfers to support restoration of historic buildings by providing economic value. BHD
amendments allow development bonuses and FAR transfers to be used in historic districts, such as
the Alphabet Historic District, but demolition review procedures requiring City Council approval of
demolitions of contributing structures and landmarks in historic districts help protect historic
structures from redevelopment pressures. Such demolitions are rarely approved by City Council
and no contributing structure or landmark has been approved for demolition in the Alphabet
Historic District since its designation in 2000.
Policy 9: Public Safety
Increase public safety by promoting measures that foster personal security and build a sense of
community.
Objective A. Encourage site and building designs that incorporate “Crime Prevention Through
Environmental Design” principles. These include designs that:
 bring more light and visibility to streets,
 create opportunities for those within buildings to observe activities taking place on the streets
and in public open spaces, and
 avoid attractions to properties where potential harmful objects exist
Objective B. Encourage projects that support active and passive spaces that focus toward the street.
363. Finding: The BHD amendments support this policy and objectives A and B by requiring building
entrances to be oriented to streets or courtyards; and limiting front garages and parking along
street frontages, which bring more visibility to streets by allowing building users to more readily
observe street activity.

Policy 14: Eastern Edge Subarea
Foster the development of the Eastern Edge as a transition between the more urban Central City and
the Northwest District.
364. Finding: The subarea contains a mix of multi-dwelling, mixed-use commercial, and employment
land use designations. The BHD amendments maintain the current land use pattern.  The subarea
includes small portions of the Alphabet Historic District, in which the map changes will adjust the
allowed building scale (both building height and FAR) to better match the scale of the existing
historic context.
Objective A. Support the established mixed-use urban character of this subarea.
365. Finding: The BHD amendments maintain the current land use pattern – the multi-dwelling, mixed-
use commercial, and employment land use designations are unchanged.
Objective D. Protect existing housing from conversion to other uses.
366. Finding: The BHD amendments maintain the current land use pattern and do not introduce new
uses to residential zones in the district, except for limited allowances for daycare facilities.

Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy 15: Thurman-Vaughn Subarea
Enhance this mixed-use subarea by emphasizing housing along NW Upshur and NW Thurman Streets
and commercial uses on the south side of NW Vaughn Street and in nodes at intersections along NW
Thurman Street.
367. Finding: The BHD amendments maintain the current land use pattern.
Objective A. Enhance NW Thurman Street as a neighborhood-oriented main street that is primarily
residential, with commercial uses clustered at intersections.
368. Finding:  The BHD amendments maintain a small amount of the RM2 (current R1 zone) along NW
Thurman Street. The BHD amendments allow for ground floor retail or office uses if the site is on a
Civic and Neighborhood corridor. NW Thurman Street is designated as a Neighborhood corridor,
so this provision allows up to 0.25 FAR of ground floor retail or office uses.
Objective B. Emphasize residential and live/work opportunities on NW Upshur Street.
369. Finding:  The BHD amendments maintain the RM2 (current R1) and RM3 (current RH) zones along
NW Upshur Street. The BHD amendments allow for ground floor retail or office uses if the site is
on a Civic and Neighborhood corridor. NW Upshur Street is not designated as Civic or
Neighborhood corridor, so this provision does not apply to this area. The RM3 zoning on NW
Upshur allows for small amounts of retail and office uses provided the use does not have external
doors or signs visible from the exterior of the building.
Part V.  Comprehensive Plan and Zoning Code Amendment
Criteria
33.835.040 Approval Criteria
A. Amendments to the zoning code. Text amendments to the zoning code must be found to be
consistent with the Comprehensive Plan, Urban Growth Management Functional Plan, and the
Statewide Planning Goals. In addition, the amendments must be consistent with the intent or purpose
statement for the base zone, overlay zone, plan district, use and development, or land division
regulation where the amendment is proposed, and any plan associated with the regulations. The
creation of a new plan district is subject to the approval criteria stated in 33.500.050.
B. Amendments to the goals and policies of the Comprehensive Plan. Text amendments to the goals
and policies of the Comprehensive Plan must be found to be consistent with the Comprehensive Plan,
the Urban Growth Management Functional Plan, and with the Statewide Planning Goals.
370. Finding:  The findings in this exhibit demonstrate how the BHD amendments are consistent with
the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, the Urban Growth Management Functional Plan, and the
Statewide Planning Goals.
The City Council interprets this criterion to require the BHD amendments show consistency on
balance.  The City Council has applied all applicable policies and the findings in this exhibit
demonstrate how the BHD amendments to the zoning code are, on balance, consistent with the
2035 Comprehensive Plan, the Urban Growth Management Functional Plan, and with the
Statewide Planning Goals.
Findings related to the zoning code amendments’ consistency with the purpose statements are
contained in Part V
No new plan district has been proposed, therefore the criteria in 33.500.050 do not apply.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Part VI.  Zoning Code Purpose Statements
Zoning Code chapters for which the only BHD amendments are updates to the multi-dwelling zone names
are not included here, as the amendments make no substantive changes to these chapters. The Zoning
Code chapters whose only amendments are updates to the multi-dwelling zone names and that are not
plan districts with multi-dwelling zoning are: 33.229, 33.251, 33.285, 33.296, 33.470, 33.480, 33.575,
33.631, 33.634, 33.667, 33.805, 33.815, 33.846, 33.854, and 33.855.
33.110 Multi-Dwelling Zones
33.120.010 Purpose
The multi-dwelling zones are intended to preserve land for urban housing and to provide opportunities
for multi-dwelling housing.
A. Use regulations. The use regulations are intended to create and maintain higher density
residential neighborhoods. At the same time, they allow for large scale institutional campuses
and other nonresidential uses but not to such an extent as to sacrifice the overall residential
neighborhood image and character.
B. Development standards. The six multi-dwelling zones are distinguished primarily by density
and development standards. The development standards work together to create desirable
residential areas by promoting aesthetically pleasing environments, safety, privacy, energy
conservation, and recreational opportunities. The development standards generally assure that
new development will be compatible with the City’s character. At the same time, the standards
allow for flexibility for new development. In addition, the regulations provide certainty to
property owners, developers, and neighbors about the limits of what is allowed. The
development standards are generally written for development on flat, regularly shaped lots.
Other situations are addressed through special standards or exceptions.
371. Finding:  The BHD amendments are consistent with the purpose of the multi-dwelling zones
because they retain the primary purpose of these zones as places for urban housing. The
amendments provide new allowances for limited amounts of ground-floor commercial uses along
major corridors and allow limited amounts of daycare uses more broadly, but sites that include
these uses will still be subject to minimum density requirements for residential uses, thereby
ensuring that development in the multi-dwelling zones includes residential units and will be subject
to requirements for features such as landscaping that reflect the character of residential areas.
Amendments to development standards support the purpose statement by limiting front garages,
requiring landscaped setbacks, and expanding outdoor space requirements, which help reinforce
the residential characteristics of areas with multi-dwelling zoning. Other amendments that regulate
primarily by building scale and provide more flexibility for what happens inside buildings help
implement purpose statement language on allowing flexibility for new development, while
providing greater certainty about the scale of allowed development. The BHD amendments include
changes to the purpose statement that add language about the zones allowing limited commercial
and replace reference to zones being distinguished by density to being distinguished by their
allowed scale. However, the overall purpose of the multi-dwelling zones as places for urban housing
and retention of residential character remains.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

33.130 Commercial/Mixed Use Zones
33.130.010 Purpose
The commercial/mixed use zones are intended for commercial and mixed use areas of the City as
designated on the Comprehensive Plan map. These zones implement the vision, guiding principles, and
goals and policies of the Comprehensive Plan, and encourage economic prosperity, human health,
environmental health, equity, and resilience. These zones are primarily distinguished by the uses
allowed and the intensity of development allowed. The zones allow a mix of commercial activities,
housing, and employment uses that reflect the different types of centers and corridors described in the
Urban Design chapter of the Comprehensive Plan, and also accommodate smaller, dispersed commercial
and mixed use areas to provide opportunities for services in areas between the centers and corridors.
The commercial/mixed use zones are intended to serve local neighborhood areas, larger districts, as
well as broader citywide or regional markets. The regulations promote uses and development that
support healthy complete neighborhoods—places where people of all ages and abilities have safe and
convenient access to the goods and services they need in their daily life, and where people have the
opportunity to live active lifestyles. The zones encourage quality and innovative design, and facilitate
creation of great places and great streets.
The development standards are designed to allow development flexibility, within parameters, that
supports the intended characteristics of the specific zone. In addition, the regulations provide guidance
to property owners, developers, and neighbors about the limits of what is allowed.
372. Finding:  The BHD amendments are consistent with the purpose of the Commercial/Mixed Use
Zones, as they do not change the intended purpose of these zones in allowing for a mix
commercial, activities, housing, and employment uses, or their role in serving surrounding areas as
hubs of services and complete neighborhoods. The BHD amendments to Chapter 33.130 are
primarily intended to providing consistency with regulations for development in the multi-dwelling
zones and do not affect the ability of commercial/mixed use zones to support a wide range of uses.
These BHD amendments include expanded allowances for FAR transfers from sites with historic
resources, allowances for development bonuses to be used in historic districts, changes to step-
down height regulations, changes to setbacks from multi-dwelling zones along major corridors, and
revisions to outdoor common area standards, pedestrian standards, and front garage limitations –
none of which impact the purposes of the commercial/mixed use zones.

33.140 Employment and Industrial Zones
33.140.010 General Purpose of the Zones
The employment and industrial zones are for areas of the City that are reserved for industrial uses and
for areas that have a mix of uses with a strong industrial orientation. The zones reflect the diversity of
industrial and business areas in the City. The zones differ in the mix of allowed uses, the allowed
intensity of development, and the development standards. The regulations promote areas which consist
of uses and developments which will support the economic viability of the specific zoning district and of
the City. The regulations protect the health, safety and welfare of the public, address area character,
and address environmental concerns. In addition, the regulations provide certainty to property owners,
developers, and neighbors about the limits of what is allowed.
373. Finding:  The BHD amendments are consistent with the purpose of the Employment and Industrial
zones, as they consist of minor changes to existing development standards for residential
development to bring consistency with similar regulations in the multi-dwelling and mixed use
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

zones, such as standards for front garages, and the addition of references to newly defined housing
types – triplexes and fourplexes.

33.150 Campus Institutional Zones
33.150.010 Purpose
The campus institutional zones implement the campus institution policies and Institutional Campus (IC)
land use designation of the Comprehensive Plan. The zones are for institutions such as medical centers
and colleges that have been developed as campuses, and for other uses that are compatible with
surrounding neighborhoods. The differences between the zones reflect the diversity and location of
campus institutions. Allowed uses and development standards promote the desired character of each
zone, and reflect the character and development intensity of surrounding neighborhoods. The CI1 and IR
zones encourage development that is at a low to medium density residential scale, while the CI2 zone
encourages development that is at a more intense, urban scale. The development standards allow
flexibility for development and provide guidance to property owners, developers, and neighbors about
the limits of what is allowed.
374. Finding:  The BHD amendments are consistent with the purpose of the Campus Institutional zones,
providing minor changes to existing development standards for residential development to bring
consistency with similar regulations in the multi-dwelling and mixed use zones, such as minor
changes to transit street main entrance standards and the addition of references to newly defined
housing types – triplexes and fourplexes.

33.218 Community Design Standards
33.218.010 Purpose
Design review and historic resource review ensure that development conserves and enhances the
recognized special design values of a site or area, and promote the conservation, enhancement, and
continued vitality of special areas of the City.
The Community Design Standards provide an alternative process to design review and historic resource
review for some proposals. Where a proposal is eligible to use this chapter, the applicant may choose to
go through the discretionary design review process set out in Chapter 33.825, Design Review, and
Chapter 33.846, Historic Resource Reviews, or to meet the objective standards of this chapter. If the
applicant chooses to meet the objective standards of this chapter, no discretionary review process is
required.
The purpose of these standards is to:
A. Ensure that new development enhances the character and livability of Portland’s
neighborhoods;
B. Ensure that increased density in established neighborhoods makes a positive contribution to
the area's character;
C. Ensure the historic integrity of conservation landmarks and the compatibility of new
development in conservation districts;
D. Enhance the character and environment for pedestrians in areas designated as design zones;
E. Offer developers the opportunity to comply with specific objective standards as a more timely,
cost effective, and more certain alternative to the design review and historic resource review
process.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

375. Finding:  The BHD amendments are consistent with the purpose of the Community Design
Standards chapter, consisting of only of updates to the multi-dwelling zone names and corrections
to outdated code references.

33.239 Group Living
33.239.010 Purpose
The regulations ensure that uses in the Group Living category will be compatible with the character of
residential and commercial areas.
376. Finding:  The BHD amendments are consistent with the purpose of the Group Living chapter,
providing a minor update to outdoor common area dimension standards to be consistent with a
similar regulation in the multi-dwelling zones.

33.258 Nonconforming Situations
33.258.010 Purpose
Nonconforming situations are created when the application of a specific zone to a site changes, or a
zoning regulation changes. As part of the change, existing uses, density, or development might no longer
be allowed. The intent of the change is not to force all noncomplying situations to be immediately
brought into conformance. Instead, the intent is to guide future uses and development in a new
direction consistent with City policy, and, eventually, bring them into conformance.
This chapter provides methods to determine whether situations have legal nonconforming status. This is
based on whether they were allowed when established, and if they have been maintained over time.
This chapter also provides a method to review and limit nonconforming situations when changes to
those situations are proposed. The intent is to protect the character of the area by reducing the negative
impacts from nonconforming situations. At the same time, the regulations assure that the uses and
development may continue and that the zoning regulations will not cause unnecessary burdens.
Nonconforming situations that have a lesser impact on the immediate area have fewer restrictions than
those with greater impacts. Nonconforming uses in residential zones are treated more strictly than
those in commercial/mixed use, employment, industrial, or campus institutional zones to protect the
livability and character of residential neighborhoods. In contrast, nonconforming residential
developments in residential zones are treated more liberally because they do not represent a major
disruption to the neighborhood and they provide needed housing opportunities in the City.
377. Finding:  The BHD amendments to this chapter delete reference to maximum density standards
that are being discontinued. The BHD amendments to this chapter also add regulations for sites
that do not meet minimum density standards to provide flexibility to come closer to conformance
through the addition of accessory dwelling units, adding units within an existing structure, adding
units in the Residential Manufactured Dwelling Park zone, and for sites within flood hazard or
potential landslide hazard areas. These amendments are consistent with the purpose statement
intent to provide flexibility for non-conforming residential development in guiding development to
become closer to conformance with regulations.

Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

33.266 Parking, Loading, And Transportation and Parking Demand Management
33.266.110 Minimum Required Parking Spaces
A. Purpose. The purpose of required parking spaces is to provide enough on-site parking to
accommodate the majority of traffic generated by the range of uses which might locate at the
site over time. Sites that are located in close proximity to transit, have good street connectivity,
and good pedestrian facilities may need little or no off-street parking. Parking requirements
should be balanced with an active pedestrian network to minimize pedestrian, bicycle and
vehicle conflicts as much as possible. Transit-supportive plazas and bicycle parking may be
substituted for some required parking on a site to encourage transit use and bicycling by
employees and visitors to the site. The required parking numbers correspond to broad use
categories, not specific uses, in response to this long term emphasis. Provision of carpool
parking, and locating it close to the building entrance, will encourage carpool use.
378. Finding:  The BHD amendments reduce minimum parking requirements for projects on small sites
up to 10,000 square feet in size in the multi-dwelling and mixed uses zones, with no off-street
parking required for projects on such sites with up to 30 units, and also expand exemptions from
minimum parking requirements for projects that provide affordable housing units in the multi-
dwelling and mixed use zones citywide. The amendments also reduce minimum parking
requirements on larger sites to a minimum 1 space per every 2 units ratio, instead of the current 1
to 1 ratio. A key tool in transportation demand management, as identified in the Transportation
Planning Rule, is parking management. To reduce reliance on automobiles, the Transportation
Planning Rule requires local governments within an MPO to achieve a 10 percent reduction in the
number of parking spaces per capita over a planning period (660-012-0045). The reductions in
minimum parking requirements and changes to achieve greater walkable form described above
serve to achieve these aims. This is consistent with the purpose of this chapter section to balance
parking with accommodating other modes of transport, such as walking, biking, or transit use.
Reducing the need for on-site parking also reduces the need for curb cuts and driveways which
present points of conflict for pedestrians and bicyclists and result in the loss of on-street parking.
86 percent of land and 95 percent of properties with multi-dwelling zoning is located within a
quarter mile of transit, and the majority of the zones are located in or within a quarter mile of
centers, providing a range of options for travel for residents in multi-dwelling zones and reducing
the need for cars. The BHD amendments are consistent with the balanced approach of this purpose
statement, given the location of most multi-dwelling and mixed use zoning close to transit and
services.
33.266.115 Maximum Allowed Parking Spaces
A. Purpose. Limiting the number of spaces allowed promotes efficient use of land, enhances
urban form, encourages use of alternative modes of transportation, provides for better
pedestrian movement, and protects air and water quality.
 The maximum ratios in this section vary with the use the parking is accessory to and with the
location of the use. These maximums will accommodate most auto trips to a site based on
typical peak parking demand for each use. Areas that are zoned for more intense development
or are easily reached by alternative modes of transportation have lower maximums than areas
where less intense development is anticipated or where transit service is less frequent. In
particular, higher maximums are appropriate in areas that are more than a 1/4 mile walk from
a frequently served bus stop or more than a 1/2 mile walk from a frequently served Transit
Station.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

379. Finding:  The BHD amendments apply in the multi-dwelling zones the same maximum parking ratio
(1.35 spaces per unit) that applies in mixed uses zones in locations close to transit. This amendment
is consistent with the purpose of this section to limit the number of spaces to promote efficient use
of land and encourage alternative modes of transportation, especially in areas close to frequent
transit.
33.266.120 Development Standards for Houses and Duplexes
A. Purpose. The size and placement of vehicle parking areas are regulated in order to enhance the
appearance of neighborhoods.
380. Finding:  The BHD amendments to this section support this purpose statement, as they further limit
front parking to strengthen the relationship of buildings to the public realm of streets and continue
residential neighborhood patterns where street frontages are lined by front yards and gardens.
33.266.130 Development Standards for All Other Development
A. Purpose. The development standards promote vehicle areas that are safe and attractive for
motorists and pedestrians. Vehicle area locations are restricted in some zones to promote the
desired character of those zones.
 Together with the transit street building setback standards in the base zone chapters, the
vehicle area location regulations for sites on transit streets and in Pedestrian Districts:
Provide a pedestrian access that is protected from auto traffic;
Create an environment that is inviting to pedestrians and transit users.
Create a strong relationship between buildings and the sidewalk; and
Create a sense of enclosure on transit and pedestrian street frontages.
 The parking area layout standards are intended to promote safe circulation within the parking
area, provide for the effective management of stormwater runoff from vehicle areas, and
provide for convenient entry and exit of vehicles. The setback and landscaping standards:
Improve and soften the appearance of parking areas;
Reduce the visual impact of parking areas from sidewalks, streets, and especially from adjacent
residential zones;
Provide flexibility to reduce the visual impacts of small residential parking lots;
Direct traffic in parking areas;
Shade and cool parking areas;
Reduce the amount and rate of stormwater runoff from vehicle areas;
Reduce pollution and temperature of stormwater runoff from vehicle areas; and
Decrease airborne and waterborne pollution.
381. Finding:  The BHD amendments to this section support this purpose statement, as they limit vehicle
areas to promote the desired pedestrian-friendly character of the multi-dwelling zones and limit
large parking areas to reduce urban heat island impacts, supporting the intended role of multi-
dwelling zones as settings for healthy living.
33.266.410 Transportation and Parking Demand Management
A. Purpose. Transportation and parking demand management (TDM) encompasses a variety of
strategies to encourage more efficient use of the existing transportation system, and reduce
reliance on the personal automobile. This is achieved by encouraging people through
education, outreach, financial incentives, and pricing to choose other modes, share rides, travel
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

outside peak times, and telecommute, among other methods. Effective TDM also incorporates
management of parking demand. Transportation and parking demand management strategies
help reduce traffic congestion, reduce the amount of money that must be spent to expand
transportation system capacity, improve air quality, and ensure road capacity is available for
those who need it most.
382. Finding:  The BHD amendments to this section support this purpose statement, as applying
transportation and parking demand management requirements to the multi-dwelling zones will
encourage more efficient use of the transportation system and less dependence on automobiles in
these zones, in addition to the mixed use zones where the requirements already apply.

33.270 Planned Developments
33.270.010 Purpose
The Planned Development regulations provide an opportunity for innovative and creative development.
Planned Development provides a master planning mechanism for allowing additional housing types and
uses, the transfer of density and floor area to different portions of a site, and across internal zoning
boundaries, and bonus floor area and increased height on large sites in commercial/mixed use zones. In
this case, the flexibility is allowed when the development includes features that provide public benefits.
These regulations allow flexibility, and in some cases increased intensity of development, beyond that
allowed by other chapters of this Title, if the proposed development is well-designed and can be
successfully integrated into the neighborhood and provides public benefits. Overall, a Planned
Development is intended to promote:
 High quality design that is integrated into the broader urban fabric, and complements existing
character within the site and adjacent to the site;
 Development that is pedestrian-oriented, with a strong orientation towards transit and
multimodal transportation alternatives;
 Building bulk, height, and orientation that ensures that light and air is accessible within the
public realm, and that public view corridors are protected;
 A safe and vibrant public realm, with buildings and uses that are oriented to activate key public
gathering spaces, be they public open space, transit stations, or the Willamette River;
 Open space areas that include gathering spaces and passive and/or active recreation
opportunities;
 Affordable housing; and
 Energy efficient development.
383. Finding:  The BHD amendments are consistent with purpose of the Planned Development chapter,
primarily adding reference to a new planned development option for projects that do not meet the
minimum required site frontage standard in Chapter 33.120, adding reference to the newly-defined
triplex and fourplex housing types, and changing references to zone names based on amendments
to Chapter 33.120.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

33.405 Alternative Design Density Overlay Zone
33.405.010 Purpose
The purpose of the Alternative Design Density Overlay Zone is to focus development on vacant sites,
preserve existing housing and encourage new development that is compatible with and supportive of
the positive qualities of residential neighborhoods. The concept for the zone is to allow increased
density for development that meets additional design compatibility requirements.
384. Finding:  The BHD amendments delete the Alternative Design Density Overlay Zone (a-overlay)
provisions for multi-dwelling zones because the Chapter 33.120 amendments provide much of the
flexibility for additional density provided by the a-overlay, making them redundant. The BHD
Chapter 33.120 amendments are consistent with the purpose of the a-overlay zone in that they
provide this flexibility for additional density in conjunction with design-related standards that
contribute to greater compatibility with residential neighborhoods, such as limitations on front
parking and garages, and deeper front setbacks and expanded outdoor space requirements in some
multi-dwelling zones.

33.415 Centers Main Street Overlay Zone
33.415.010 Purpose
The Centers Main Street overlay zone encourages a mix of commercial, residential and employment
uses on the key main streets within town centers and neighborhood centers identified in the
Comprehensive Plan. The regulations are intended to encourage a continuous area of shops and
services, create a safe and pleasant pedestrian environment, minimize conflicts between vehicles and
pedestrians, support hubs of community activity, and foster a dense, urban environment with
development intensities that are supportive of transit.
385. Finding:  The only BHD amendment to Chapter 33.415 is an amended Map 415-1 providing
corrections and refinements to the mapping of the Pattern Areas, which indicates the applicability
of some development standards. The BHD amendment is consistent with this purpose statement
because it does not significantly change the chapter’s regulations.

33.420 Design Overlay Zone
33.420.010 Purpose
The Design Overlay Zone promotes the conservation, enhancement, and continued vitality of areas of
the City with special scenic, architectural, or cultural value. The Design Overlay Zone also promotes
quality high-density development adjacent to transit facilities. This is achieved through the creation of
design districts and applying the Design Overlay Zone as part of community planning projects,
development of design guidelines for each district, and by requiring design review or compliance with
the Community Design Standards. In addition, design review or compliance with the Community Design
Standards ensures that certain types of infill development will be compatible with the neighborhood
and enhance the area.
386. Finding:  The BHD amendments to Chapter 33.420 are technical, removing reference to Zoning
Code regulations in other chapters that are being deleted and updating the multi-dwelling zone
names, and do not conflict with this purpose statement.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

33.445 Historic Resource Overlay Zone
33.445.010 Purpose
This chapter protects certain historic resources in the region and preserves significant parts of the
region’s heritage. The regulations implement Portland's Comprehensive Plan policies that address
historic preservation. These policies recognize the role historic resources have in promoting the
education and enjoyment of those living in and visiting the region. The regulations foster pride among
the region’s citizens in their city and its heritage. Historic preservation beautifies the city, promotes the
city’s economic health, and helps to preserve and enhance the value of historic properties.
387. Finding:  The BHD amendments to Chapter 33.445 are technical, removing reference to Zoning
Code regulations in other chapters that are being deleted and updating the multi-dwelling zone
names, and do not conflict with this purpose statement.

33.505 Albina Community Plan District
33.505.010 Purpose
The Albina Community plan district implements the Albina Community Plan. The plan district’s
provisions are intended to ensure that new higher density commercial and industrial developments do
not overwhelm nearby residential areas. Infill housing compatibility and affordability is encouraged by
eliminating off-street parking requirements for small multi-dwelling housing projects. The plan district's
provisions also encourage the development of new housing along Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard by
allowing new housing projects to include ground level commercial uses that orient to King Boulevard.
388. Finding:  The BHD amendments delete sections of the Albina Community Plan District chapter that
will be redundant with BHD amendments that will apply citywide, including allowances for ground-
floor commercial uses along major corridors (which will apply along Martin Luther King Jr.
Boulevard) and reduced minimum parking requirements for small sites, and discontinuation of the
lower minimum density standard for RH zoning along Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard. While these
plan district provisions are being deleted, the BHD amendments are consistent with this purpose
statement in allowing limited amounts of ground-floor commercial uses along Martin Luther King Jr.
Boulevard and reducing minimum off-street parking requirements. BHD amends this purpose
statement to focus on the remaining plan district provision allowing attached houses on vacant lots
in the R5 zone to provide opportunities for owner-occupied housing.

33.510 Central City Plan District
33.510.010 Purpose
The Central City plan district implements the Central City 2035 Plan. The regulations address the unique
role the Central City plays as the region’s premier center for jobs, health and human services, tourism,
entertainment and urban living. The regulations encourage a high-density urban area with a broad mix
of commercial, residential, industrial and institutional uses, and foster transit-supportive development,
pedestrian and bicycle-friendly streets, a vibrant public realm and a healthy urban river.
389. Finding:  The BHD amendments to Chapter 33.510 are technical, updating the multi-dwelling zone
names, and do not conflict with this purpose statement. BHD amendments to Chapter 33.120 have
limited impact on the Central City plan district because the Central City has only a small amount of
multi-dwelling zoning  that is affected by the BHD amendments. This includes two acres of current
R2 zoning, 9 acres of current R1 zoning, and 28 acres of current RH zoning. The BHD amendments
for the new RM1 and RM2 zones shift from regulating development from unit density to regulating
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

by building scale, which will provide flexibility for more units, supporting the role of the Central City
as a high-density urban area that includes a broad mix of residential uses. The BHD amendments
are therefore consistent with this purpose statement.

33.520 Division Street Plan District
33.520.010 Purpose
The Division Street plan district promotes development that fosters a pedestrian- and transit-oriented
main street. The plan district provisions ensure that development:
 Activates Division Street corners and enhances the pedestrian environment; and
 Is constructed with high quality materials in combinations that are visually interesting.
390. Finding:  The BHD amendments to Chapter 33.120 impact this plan district because it includes
multi-dwelling zoning within its boundaries.  The BHD amendments to Chapter 33.120 are
consistent with this purpose statement because they include development standards intended to
contribute to a transit- and pedestrian-oriented environment, such as requirements for street-
oriented entrances, limitations on front parking and garages, and allowances for additional housing
units that contribute to transit-supportive densities.

33.521 East Corridor Plan District
33.521.010 Purpose
The East Corridor plan district includes three light rail stations and three Pedestrian Districts. The area is
targeted to receive a significant share of the city’s growth. It is envisioned that future development will
transform the areas surrounding the light rail stations into vibrant mixed-use areas of retail, office, and
housing with a high level of pedestrian amenities. Lower density residential and commercial
development will continue to surround the Pedestrian Districts.
These regulations:
 Encourage new housing and mixed use development and expansions of existing development to
promote the corridor’s growth and light rail transit ridership;
 Promote compatibility between private and public investments along the light rail system
through enhanced building design and site layout standards;
 Implement the objectives of the City’s Pedestrian Districts to enhance the pedestrian experience
and access to and from light rail service; and
 Encourage connectivity for vehicles, bicycles, and pedestrians on large sites.
391. Finding:  The BHD amendments to Chapter 33.521 are technical, updating the multi-dwelling zone
names and amending the commercial use allowances to be consistent with Chapter 33.120, and do
not conflict with this purpose statement. The BHD amendments to Chapter 33.120 impact this plan
district because it includes multi-dwelling zoning within its boundaries. The BHD amendments to
Chapter 33.120 are consistent with this purpose statement because they include development
standards intended to contribute to a transit- and pedestrian-oriented environment, such as
requirements for street-oriented entrances, limitations on front parking and garages, allowances
for additional housing units that contribute to transit-supportive densities, and amendments
intended to facilitate the creation of new street and pedestrian connections.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

33.526 Gateway Plan District
33.526.010 Purpose
Gateway is Portland’s only regional center. As designated in the Outer Southeast Community Plan, the
Gateway Regional Center is targeted to receive a significant share of the city’s growth. Gateway is
served by Interstates 205 and 84, MAX light rail, and TriMet bus service. At the crossroads of these
major transportation facilities and high-quality transit service, Gateway is positioned to become the
most intensely developed area outside of the Central City. Future development will transform Gateway
from a suburban low density area to a dense, mixed-use regional center that maximizes the public’s
significant investment in the transportation infrastructure.
The regulations of this chapter encourage the development of an urban level of housing, employment,
open space, public facilities, and pedestrian amenities that will strengthen the role of Gateway as a
regional center. The regulations also ensure that future development will provide for greater
connectivity of streets throughout the plan district. This development will implement the Gateway
Regional Center Policy of the Outer Southeast Community Plan. Together, the use and development
regulations of the Gateway plan district:
 Promote compatibility between private and public investments through building design and site
layout standards;
 Promote new development and expansions of existing development that create attractive and
convenient facilities for pedestrians and transit patrons to visit, live, work, and shop;
 Ensure that new development moves the large sites in the plan district closer to the open space
and connectivity goals of the Gateway Regional Center;
 Create a clear distinction and attractive transition between properties within the regional center
and the more suburban neighborhoods outside; and
 Provide opportunities for more intense mixed-use development around the light rail stations.
392. Finding:  The BHD amendments to Chapter 33.526 are technical, updating the multi-dwelling zone
names and amending open area dimension standards to be consistent with Chapter 33.120, and do
not conflict with this purpose statement. The BHD amendments to Chapter 33.120 impact this plan
district because it includes multi-dwelling zoning within its boundaries. The BHD amendments to
Chapter 33.120 are consistent with this purpose statement because they include development
standards intended to contribute to a transit- and pedestrian-oriented environment, such as
requirements for street-oriented entrances, limitations on front parking and garages, allowances
for additional housing units that contribute to transit-supportive densities, and amendments
intended to facilitate the creation of new street and pedestrian connections.

33.530 Glendoveer Plan District
33.530.010 Purpose
The regulations of the Glendoveer plan district are intended to ensure that the special development
patterns fostered by Ascot zoning and succeeding zoning provisions established by Multnomah County
are protected and continued under City zoning regulations following annexation.
393. Finding:  The Glendoveer plan district includes some multi-dwelling zoning, but the plan district
regulations only apply to the R7 single-dwelling zone. The BHD amendments to the multi-dwelling
zones and related regulations do not affect this plan district and therefore are not in conflict with
the plan district purpose statement.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

33.532 Hayden Island Plan District
33.532.010 Purpose
The regulations in this chapter will preserve and enhance both the character and opportunities of
Hayden Island to:
 Create a transportation network that provides for all modes, and allows people to easily move
from one mode to another;
 Focus higher intensity, mixed-use development near the Light Rail Station;
 Provide opportunities for a range of housing types, and encourage mixed-use development,
including commercial uses, to serve the residential uses;
 Ensure transitions between residential and nonresidential zones and neighborhoods; and
 Recognize the current function of the Jantzen Beach Super Center as an auto-oriented shopping
mall and its long-term potential for more intense development that is less auto-oriented and
more pedestrian-friendly resulting from major investments in the transportation system.
The environmental zoning that applies to much of the plan district will preserve and restore the unique
and valuable natural resources of the island, such as the shallow water habitat.
394. Finding:  The BHD amendments to Chapter 33.532 are technical, updating the multi-dwelling and
mixed use zone names and associated figures, and do not conflict with this purpose statement. The
BHD amendments to Chapter 33.120 impact this plan district because it includes a small amount of
R2 and R1 (new RM1 and RM2) multi-dwelling zoning within its boundaries. The BHD amendments
to Chapter 33.120 are consistent with this purpose statement because they facilitate a broader
range of housing types by shifting to regulating by building scale, with more flexibility for the
numbers and types of units.

33.534 Hillsdale Plan District
33.534.010 Purpose
The regulations of the Hillsdale plan district promote compatibility between existing and new residential
and commercial development and support the Hillsdale Town Center.
395. Finding:  The BHD amendments to Chapter 33.534 are technical, updating the multi-dwelling zone
names, and do not conflict with this purpose statement. The BHD amendments to Chapter 33.120
impact this plan district because it includes multi-dwelling zoning within its boundaries. The BHD
amendments to Chapter 33.120 are consistent with this purpose statement because they include
development standards intended to integrate new development with the characteristics of
residential areas, such as requirements for landscaped front setbacks, expanded requirements for
outdoor spaces, limitations on front parking and garages, and requirements for large buildings to
step down in height adjacent to single-dwelling zones.

33.536 Hollywood Plan District
33.536.010 Purpose
The Hollywood plan district provides for an urban level of mixed-use development including commercial,
office, housing, and recreation. Specific objectives of the plan district include strengthening Hollywood’s
role as a commercial and residential center, and promoting the use of light rail, bus transit, and walking.
These regulations:
 Enhance business and economic vitality;
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

 Promote housing and mixed-use development;
 Discourage auto-oriented uses and developments and direct the placement of auto-oriented
uses and developments away from the area of most intense activity;
 Reinforce the connection between the Hollywood Transit Center and the business core of the
Hollywood District;
 Enhance the pedestrian experience; and
 Enhance the character of buildings in the plan district.
396. Finding:  The BHD amendments to Chapter 33.536 are minor, updating the multi-dwelling zone
names and amending the maximum parking ratio for household living uses to be consistent with
BHD amendments, and do not conflict with this purpose statement. The BHD amendments to
Chapter 33.120 impact this plan district because it includes multi-dwelling zoning within its
boundaries. The BHD amendments to Chapter 33.120 are consistent with this purpose statement
because they include development standards intended to contribute to a transit- and pedestrian-
oriented environment, such as requirements for street-oriented entrances, limitations on front
parking and garages, and allowances for additional housing units that contribute to transit-
supportive densities.

33.537 Johnson Creek Basin Plan District
33.537.010 Purpose
The Johnson Creek Basin plan district provides for the safe, orderly, and efficient development of lands
which are subject to a number of physical constraints, including significant natural resources, steep and
hazardous slopes, flood plains, wetlands, and the lack of streets, sewers, and water services. At certain
locations, the density of development is limited by applying special regulations to new land division
proposals. In addition, restrictions are placed on all new land uses and activities to reduce stormwater
runoff, provide groundwater recharge, reduce erosion, enhance water quality, and retain and enhance
native vegetation throughout the plan district. At other locations, development is encouraged and
mechanisms are included that provide relief from environmental restrictions.
This plan district is intended to be used in conjunction with environmental zoning placed on significant
resources and functional values in the Johnson Creek basin, to protect resources and functional values in
conformance with Goal 8 of the Comprehensive Plan and Statewide Planning Goal 5.
397. Finding:  The BHD amendments to Chapter 33.537 are technical, updating the multi-dwelling zone
names and changing references to multi-unit housing types to correspond to new terminology, and
do not conflict with this purpose statement. The BHD amendments to Chapters 33.120 and other
chapters impact this plan district because it includes multi-dwelling zoning within its boundaries.
The BHD amendments to Chapter 33.120 are consistent with this purpose statement because they
increase requirements for outdoor spaces such as common areas, retain existing minimum
landscaping standards, provide incentives for preserving large trees, and place limits on the size of
large surface parking lots.

33.538 Kenton Plan District
33.538.010 Purpose
The Kenton plan district use regulations foster a vital retail corridor along Denver Avenue. The Kenton
plan district development standards ensure that the design of new buildings, and modifications to
existing buildings, are compatible with the historic character of the area. These regulations also ensure a
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

pleasant, safe and efficient environment for pedestrians along the Denver Avenue commercial corridor
and near the light rail station. Together, these regulations:
 Enhance the commercial character along Denver Avenue by restricting industrial uses;
 Discourage auto-oriented uses and development; and
 Encourage retail uses in the historic storefront buildings along Denver Avenue.
398. Finding:  The BHD amendments to Chapter 33.120 impact this plan district because it includes
multi-dwelling zoning within its boundaries. The BHD amendments to Chapter 33.120 are
consistent with this purpose statement because they include development standards intended to
contribute to a transit- and pedestrian-oriented environment, such as requirements for street-
oriented entrances and limitations on front parking and garages.

33.540 Laurelhurst/Eastmoreland Plan District
33.540.010 Purpose
The regulations of the Laurelhurst/Eastmoreland plan district enforce the special setback requirements
of Ordinances 70343 and 70341. This plan district maintains the established character of the Laurelhurst
and Eastmoreland areas, characterized by homes with larger than normal building setbacks from the
street.
399. Finding:  The BHD amendments to Chapter 33.120 impact this plan district because it includes a
small amount of R2 (new RM1) multi-dwelling zoning in Laurelhurst within its boundaries.  The BHD
amendments to Chapter 33.120 are consistent with this purpose statement because they do not
affect the special front setback requirements of the plan district, and amendments for the RM1
reduce they height limits to 35 feet, instead of the current 40-foot maximum, which is more in
keeping with the predominant single-dwelling zoning of the area, while retaining current building
coverage and landscaping standards.

33.545 Lombard Street Plan District
33.545.010 Purpose
The Lombard Street Plan District implements the Lombard Street nodes and corridors elements of the St
Johns/Lombard Plan by promoting development that fosters a pedestrian- and transit-oriented main
street in key places, and supports enhanced design for multi-dwelling residential developments.
400. Finding:  The BHD amendments to Chapter 33.120 impact this plan district because it includes
multi-dwelling zoning within its boundaries.  The BHD amendments to Chapter 33.120 are
consistent with this purpose statement because they include development standards intended to
contribute to a transit- and pedestrian-oriented environment, such as requirements for street-
oriented entrances, limitations on front parking and garages, and allowances for additional housing
units that contribute to transit-supportive densities.

33.550 Macadam Plan District
33.550.010 Purpose
The Macadam plan district implements the Macadam Corridor Study. The plan district contains a set of
regulations designed to preserve and promote the unique character of the Macadam area. In addition to
special development standards for the district, the regulations restrict auto-oriented uses and
development, limit signs, allow for future light rail, and provide view corridors to the Willamette River.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

401. Finding:  The BHD amendments to Chapter 33.120 impact this plan district because it includes
multi-dwelling zoning within its boundaries.  The BHD amendments to Chapter 33.120 are
consistent with this purpose statement because they include development standards intended to
contribute to a transit- and pedestrian-oriented environment, such as requirements for street-
oriented entrances and limitations on front parking and garages, and include requirements for
landscaped front setbacks and expanded outdoor area standards that are consistent with the
landscaped character of the Macadam plan district.

33.560 North Cully Plan District
33.560.010 Purpose
The regulations of the North Cully Plan District are intended to ensure compatible redevelopment of
certain large parcels as set forth in the Cully Neighborhood Plan. These parcels are developed with
gravel pits, a number of smaller, older single family dwellings and trailer parks with redevelopment
probable in the next two decades. Properties should be developed in a cohesive pattern in order to
encourage compatible development with the neighborhood to the south. North Cully Development
review is a master plan review which will ensure compatibility and cohesive design.
402. Finding:  The BHD amendments to Chapter 33.120 impact this plan district because it includes a
small amount of multi-dwelling zoning within its boundaries.  The BHD amendments to Chapter
33.120 are consistent with this purpose statement because they do not affect the focus of this plan
district on large parcels and include development standards that encourage a continuation of
residential neighborhood characteristics, such as through requirements for landscaped front
setbacks and expanded outdoor area requirements.

33.561 North Interstate Plan District
33.561.010 Purpose
The North Interstate plan district provides for an urban level of mixed-use development to support the
MAX line and the surrounding neighborhoods by encouraging development that increases neighborhood
economic vitality, amenities, and services and successfully accommodates additional density. These
standards:
 Implement urban design concepts of the North Interstate Corridor Plan;
 Help ease transitions between new high-density development and the existing, low-density
neighborhoods; and
 Enhance the pedestrian experience.
403. Finding:  The BHD amendments to Chapter 33.561 update  the multi-dwelling zone names and
delete an allowance for lower minimum densities in the RH zone, which changes are consistent
with this purpose statement and its language related to accommodating additional density. The
BHD amendments to Chapter 33.120 also impact this plan district because it includes multi-dwelling
zoning within its boundaries. The BHD amendments to Chapter 33.120 are consistent with this
purpose statement because they include development standards intended to contribute to a
transit- and pedestrian-oriented environment, such as requirements for street-oriented entrances,
limitations on front parking and garages, and allowances for additional housing units that
contribute to transit-supportive densities.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

33.562 Northwest Plan District
33.562.010 Purpose
The Northwest plan district implements the Northwest District Plan, providing for an urban level of
mixed-use development including commercial, office, housing, and employment. Objectives of the plan
district include strengthening the area’s role as a commercial and residential center. The regulations of
this chapter:
 Promote housing and mixed-use development;
 Address the area’s parking scarcity while discouraging auto-oriented developments;
 Enhance the pedestrian experience;
 Encourage a mixed-use environment, with transit supportive levels of development and a
concentration of commercial uses, along main streets and the streetcar alignment; and
 Minimize conflicts between the mixed-uses of the plan district and the industrial uses of the
adjacent Guild’s Lake Industrial Sanctuary.
404. Finding:  The BHD amendments to Chapter 33.562 update the multi-dwelling zone names and
delete an allowance for limited amounts of commercial uses along the streetcar alignment, because
this allowance is being provided by amendments to Chapter 33.120 that will apply to Civic and
Neighborhood corridors citywide, including the streetcar alignment. These amendments therefore
continue the allowances of the plan district and are consistent with this purpose statement. The
BHD amendments to Chapter 33.120 also impact this plan district because it includes multi-dwelling
zoning within its boundaries. The BHD amendments to Chapter 33.120 are consistent with this
purpose statement because they include development standards intended to contribute to a
transit- and pedestrian-oriented environment, such as requirements for street-oriented entrances
limitations on front parking and garages. Other BHD amendments support this purpose statement
by allowing additional scale through development bonuses and FAR transfers in mixed-use zones in
historic districts, including the Alphabet Historic District within the plan district, which supports
purpose statement language calling for an urban level of mixed-use development and transit-
supportive levels of development along the main streets and streetcar alignment.

33.563 Northwest Hills Plan District
33.563.010 Purpose
The Northwest Hills plan district protects sites with sensitive and highly valued resources and functional
values. The portions of the plan district that include the Balch Creek Watershed and the Forest Park
Subdistrict contain unique, high quality resources and functional values that require additional
protection beyond that of the Environmental overlay zone. The Linnton Hillside subarea within the
Forest Park subdistrict contains a residential area that is constrained by natural conditions and limited
existing infrastructure. The development standards for this subarea are intended to protect the public
health and safety by limiting the potential number of new housing units consistent with these
constraints. The plan district also promotes the orderly development of the Skyline subdistrict while
assuring that adequate services are available to support development. These regulations provide the
higher level of protection necessary for the plan district area. The transfer of development rights option
reduces development pressure on protected sites while containing safeguards to protect receiving sites.
This plan district is intended to be used in conjunction with environmental zoning placed on significant
resources and functional values in the Johnson Creek basin, to protect resources and functional values in
conformance with Goal 8 of the Comprehensive Plan and Statewide Planning Goal 5.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

405. Finding:  The BHD amendments to Chapters 33.120 and other chapters impact this plan district
because it includes small amounts of multi-dwelling zoning within its boundaries. The BHD
amendments to Chapter 33.120 are consistent with this purpose statement because they increase
requirements for outdoor spaces such as common areas, retain existing maximum building
coverage and minimum landscaping standards, and place limits on the size of large surface parking
lots, which will help limit environmental impacts and aid stormwater management.

33.564 Pleasant Valley Plan District
33.564.010 Purpose
The Pleasant Valley plan district implements the Comprehensive Plan’s goals, policies and action
measures for Pleasant Valley; creates an urban community as defined by the Comprehensive Plan; and,
furthers the Pleasant Valley vision to integrate land use, transportation, and natural resources. Pleasant
Valley as a whole is intended to be a community made up of neighborhoods, a town center,
neighborhood centers, employment districts, parks and schools, open spaces and trails, a range of
transportation choices, and extensive protection, restoration and enhancement of the natural
resources. Portions of the Pleasant Valley area will be in the City of Portland and portions will be in the
City of Gresham. The purpose of the Pleasant Valley plan district includes integrating the significant
natural resources into a new, urban community.
406. Finding:  The BHD amendments to Chapter 33.537 are technical, adding two newly-defined housing
types – triplexes and fourplexes – to the list of multi-unit housing types prohibited though a
planned development, and do not conflict with this purpose statement. These two housing types
are currently classified as multi-dwelling structures, which are currently prohibited, so the BHD
amendments retain their current prohibited status and are consistent with the purpose of the plan
district.

33.583 St. Johns Plan District
33.583.010 Purpose
The St. Johns plan district provides for an urban level of mixed-use development including commercial,
employment, office, housing, institutional, and recreation uses. Specific objectives of the plan district
include strengthening St. Johns’ role as the commercial and civic center of the North Portland peninsula.
These regulations:
 Stimulate business and economic vitality;
 Promote housing and mixed-use development;
 Discourage auto-oriented uses and development;
 Enhance the pedestrian environment;
 Enhance the character of buildings in the plan district; and
 Support the Willamette greenway and opportunities to celebrate the Willamette River as a
unique element of the urban environment.
407. Finding:  The BHD amendments to Chapter 33.583 delete an allowance for lower minimum
densities in the R1 zone, which is consistent with this purpose statement and its language related to
accommodating urban levels of housing and promoting housing development. The BHD
amendments to Chapter 33.120 also impact this plan district because it includes multi-dwelling
zoning within its boundaries. The BHD amendments to Chapter 33.120 are consistent with this
purpose statement because they include development standards intended to contribute to a
pedestrian-oriented environment and housing opportunities, such as requirements for street-
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

oriented entrances, limitations on front parking and garages, and allowances for additional housing
on multi-dwelling zone sites.

33.612 Lots in Multi-Dwelling and IR Zones
33.612.010 Purpose
This chapter contains the density and lot dimension standards for approval of a Preliminary Plan for a
land division in the multi-dwelling and IR zones. These standards ensure that lots are consistent with the
desired character of each zone. This chapter works in conjunction with other chapters of this Title to
ensure that land divisions create lots that can support appropriate development and uses in accordance
with the planned intensity of the zone.
408. Finding:  The BHD amendments to Chapter 33.612 update the multi-dwelling zone names, amend
text to reflect the discontinuation of maximum density standards, and add Attached Duplex to
Table 612-1 because this housing type had been missing from this table. The amendments are
consistent with this purpose statement in providing more complete and updated information
related to lot dimension standards.

33.825 Design Review
33.825.010 Purpose
Design review ensures that development conserves and enhances the recognized special design values
of a site or area. Design review is used to ensure the conservation, enhancement, and continued vitality
of the identified scenic, architectural, and cultural values of each design district or area and to promote
quality development near transit facilities. Design review ensures that certain types of infill
development will be compatible with the neighborhood and enhance the area. Design review is also
used in certain cases to review public and private projects to ensure that they are of a high design
quality.
409. Finding:  The BHD amendments to Chapter 33.825 are technical, removing reference to Zoning
Code regulations in other chapters that are being deleted and updating the multi-dwelling zone
names, and do not conflict with this purpose statement.

33.930 Measurements
33.930.010 Purpose
This Chapter explains how measurements are made in the zoning code.
410. Finding:  The BHD amendments to this chapter change the Measure Height section to explain
revisions to height measurement in the multi-dwelling zones, which is consistent with this purpose
statement.

Part VII.  Comprehensive Plan Map Amendment Criteria
33.810.050 Approval Criteria
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

B. Legislative. Amendments to the Comprehensive Plan Map which are legislative must be found to be
consistent with the goals and policies of the Comprehensive Plan, Metro’s Urban Growth Management
Functional Plan, the Statewide Planning Goals, and any relevant area plans adopted by the City Council.
411. Finding:  The City Council interprets that this criterion requires the BHD amendments to show
consistency on balance. The City Council has applied all applicable policies and the findings in this
exhibit demonstrate how the BHD amendments to the 2035 Comprehensive Plan Map are
consistent with the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, the Urban Growth Management Functional Plan, the
Statewide Planning Goals, and relevant area plans.

Part VIII.  Zoning Map Amendments Approval Criteria
33.855.050 Approval Criteria for Base Zone Changes
An amendment to the base zone designation on the Official Zoning Maps will be approved (either quasi-
judicial or legislative) if the review body finds that the applicant has shown that all of the following
approval criteria are met:
A.  Compliance with the Comprehensive Plan Map. The zone change is to a corresponding zone of the
Comprehensive Plan Map. When the Comprehensive Plan Map designation has more than one
corresponding zone, it must be shown that the proposed zone is the most appropriate, taking into
consideration the purposes or characteristics of each zone and the zoning pattern of surrounding
land.
412. Finding:  All BHD Zoning Map amendments reflect and align with amendments to the 2035
Comprehensive Plan Map and are therefore consistent with that map. The Zoning Code
amendments include the creation of four new multi-dwelling residential zones, all of which are
corresponding zones to the new land use designations in Chapter 10 of the 2035 Comprehensive
Plan.
The BHD Multi-Dwelling-Urban Center designation has two corresponding zones – RM3 and RM4.
In general, the City Council has determined that the RM3 zone is the most appropriate zone for all
sites with RH zoning with a 2:1 base FAR because the RM3 base FAR is 2:1. Further, City Council has
determined that the RM4 zone the most appropriate zone for all sites with RH zoning identified on
Map 120-1 through Map 120-18, which identify areas with RH zoning that have a 4:1 base FAR
because the RM4 base FAR is 4:1. The exception to this methodology is in the Alphabet and Kings
Hill historic districts, where City Council has decided to make adjustments to the zoning
designations so that the base FAR better relates to the scale of existing historic buildings. Because
both the RM3 and RM4 zones have the same new Comprehensive Plan Map Designation (Multi-
Dwelling Urban Center), as is the case with these zones’ current RH zone designation, City Council
made this decision to apply RM3 or RM4 zoning based on the intended characteristics of the new
zones as they relate to the historic development patterns of these historic districts, as explained
below. This approach is consistent with Comprehensive Plan Policy 4.49, which provides direction
to “Refine base zoning in historic districts to consider the character of the historic resources in the
district.”
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

In the portion of the Alphabet Historic District north of NW Glisan Street and east of NW 21st
Avenue, which currently has RH zoning with a 4:1 base FAR, City Council decided to assign the RM3
zone (with a 2:1 base FAR and 3:1 bonus FAR) to correspond to the scale of historic buildings in this
area, where 90 percent of the historic properties in the RH zone in this area have existing FARs of
2:1 FAR or less, with smaller numbers of historic buildings with FARs up to around an FAR of 3:1
(this is documented in a map [Map 2: Existing Building Floor Area Ratios] that is included in material
from the Planning and Sustainability Commission work session on April 9, 2019). In the portion of
the Alphabet Historic District generally south of NW Glisan Street between NW 21st and NW 23rd
avenues that currently has RH zoning with a 2:1 base FAR, City Council decided to assign the RM4
zone to correspond to the larger scale of historic buildings in this area, which has a concentration of
historic buildings with FARs ranging from more than 2:1 to around 4:1. The FAR map analysis found
that larger historic buildings in the current RH zone are clustered in areas of the Alphabet Historic
District south of NW Glisan Street, with smaller buildings predominant in the RH zone north of this
street. City Council decided to assign the larger scale RM4 zone and smaller scale RM3 zone to
correspond to these historic development patterns. This assignment of zones is also consistent with
the intended characteristics of the new RM3 and RM4 zones. The Characteristics of the Zones
paragraph for the RM3 zone (33.120.030.C) indicates that the zone is intended for areas where the
established residential character includes landscaped front setbacks, which is consistent with the
characteristics of the majority of the historic district north of NW Glisan Street, which includes a
mix of small apartment buildings and houses, typically with small landscaped front setbacks or
courtyards. The Characteristics of the Zones paragraph for the RM4 zone (33.120.030.D) indicates
that the zone is an intensely urban zone and is intended for buildings located close to sidewalks
with little or no front setbacks, which corresponds to the characteristics of the larger buildings in
the historic district south of NW Glisan Street. These characteristics are documented in project
material that mapped building footprints and site configurations in the historic district.
For properties at the southern edge of the King’s Hill Historic District, which currently have RH
zoning with a 4:1 base FAR, City Council decided to assign the RM3 zone (with a 2:1 base FAR) to
correspond to the scale of historic buildings on these properties, all of which have existing FARs of
less than a 2:1 FAR (this is documented in a map [Map 2: Existing Building Floor Area Ratios] that is
included in material from the Planning and Sustainability Commission work session on April 9,
2019). This assignment of the RM3 zone is also consistent with the intended characteristics of the
new RM3 zones. The Characteristics of the Zones paragraph for the RM3 zone (33.120.030.C)
indicates that the zone is intended for areas where the established residential character includes
landscaped front setbacks, which is consistent with the characteristics of the properties being
zoned to RM3 in the King’s Hill Historic District, which consist primarily of house-type structures
with landscaped setbacks. In other portions of the King’s Hill Historic District, where there is  a
diverse range of historic buildings with differing sizes and characteristics, City Council decided to
apply the RM4 zone (with a 3:1 base FAR and a 4.5:1 bonus FAR in historic districts) to correspond
the scale of larger historic building in the historic district, which have FARs that range from 3:1 to
4.5:1. In a three-block area with RH zoning immediately to the east of this historic district, City
Council decided to apply RM4 zoning with a 4:1 base FAR to be consistent with zoning patterns in
the area. This area is in the Central City Plan District, which provides a base FAR of 4:1 for these
three blocks. RM4 zoning most closely correspond to this and other development standards that
apply in this area.

Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

B.  Adequate public services.
1. Adequacy of services applies only to the specific zone change site.
2. Adequacy of services is determined based on performance standards established by the service
bureaus. The burden of proof is on the applicant to provide the necessary analysis. Factors to
consider include the projected service demands of the site, the ability of the existing and
proposed public services to accommodate those demand numbers, and the characteristics of
the site and development proposal, if any.
a. Public services for water supply, and capacity, and police and fire protection are capable of
supporting the uses allowed by the zone or will be capable by the time development is
complete.
413. Finding:  The BHD amendments expand the types of housing allowed, especially in the lower density
RM1 and RM2 multi-dwelling zones, which make up 92 percent of the multi-dwelling zoned land in
Portland.  The change to regulating density by FAR will provide more flexibility for how many units
are allowed inside the building, which will allow for a wider range of smaller housing types and
sizes. In RM2 zone, which is often located along transit corridors, will allow for a higher density that
is similar to adjacent mixed-use commercial zones. After accounting for the BLI constraints, the
development capacity in BHD zones increases by about 14,000 units. As required by ORS 195.036,
the BLI allocation model uses Metro’s population forecast to determine where new housing units
are likely to be allocated. The BHD capacity and growth allocation model shows minor changes to
the spatial distribution of housing units across Portland.
The adopted 2035 Comprehensive Plan includes the Citywide Systems Plan (CSP), which was
adopted (Ordinance 185657) and acknowledged by LCDC on April 25, 2017. The CSP includes the
Public Facilities Plan with information on current and future transportation, water, sanitary sewer,
and stormwater infrastructure needs and projects, consistent with the requirements of Statewide
Planning Goal 11.
In addition, the service limitations identified in the CSP have been incorporated into the adopted
BLI development constraint analysis that identified parts of Portland that lack needed urban
infrastructure. The BLI constraint analysis is the basis of a geographic evaluation of the BHD
amendments to ensure that public facilities are planned to support the potential development
resulting from these amendments.
The BHD changes increase the overall development capacity. However, not all of this capacity is
expected to develop over the 2035 CSP planning period. The Buildable Lands Inventory considers
other development constraints to determine the overall increase in available capacity, and then
assigns growth based on household projections, housing type demand and development trends.
The BHD capacity and growth allocation modeling determined that there would be a modest shift in
the development pattern compared to the default baseline – 2035 Comp Plan. In general, more
development is expected in the inner neighborhoods, where facilities are generally available and
there are fewer areas with inadequate infrastructure. Impacts to city systems were evaluated based
on the net change of development impact between the baseline zoning entitlement and the BHD
changes as well as the location of where increased household development was forecast.
Water
Water demand forecasts developed by the Water Bureau anticipate that while per capita water
demands will continue to decline somewhat over time, the overall demands on the Portland water
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

system will increase due to population growth.  The Portland Water Bureau has not experienced
any major supply deficiencies in the last 10 years.
The water supply and water distribution system are sized to meet City fire suppression needs which
far surpass the day-to day demand from residential customers. The demand from higher density
development in the multi-dwelling residential zones is unlikely to significantly affect the water
system. While it is possible that the additional densities allowed through the BHD could exacerbate
existing local capacity issues in isolated areas, the Water Bureau does not anticipate the
amendments to cause significant problems for either current water users or the overall system.
(see Water Bureau letter dated August 27, 2019)
The BHD map amendments primarily affect properties that already have multi-dwelling zoning. The
two exceptions are properties at 1021 NE 33rd Avenue and 5631 SE Belmont Street, totaling a little
over three acres of land, which are being rezoned from single-dwelling R5 to multi-dwelling RM1
zoning. These properties are adjacent to streets that have adequate water service. It is not in an
area with substandard fire flow.
Police and Fire Protection
The Police and Fire Bureaus have not established any specific or quantifiable levels of service for
new development.
As noted in the findings above, the BHD amendments are consistent with Statewide Planning Goal
11 (Public Facilities and Services) and the applicable 2035 Comprehensive Plan policies in Chapter 8
(Public Facilities and Services) and the findings in response to those goals and policies are
incorporated by reference. Therefore, the public services for water supply, and capacity, and police
and fire protection are capable of supporting the R2.5 rezoning.
b. Proposed sanitary waste disposal and stormwater disposal systems are or will be made acceptable
to the Bureau of Environmental Services. Performance standards must be applied to the specific
site design. Limitations on development level, mitigation measures or discharge restrictions may
be necessary in order to assure these services are adequate.
Finding:  Sanitary Sewer
The Bureau of Environmental Services evaluated the proposed changes in household allocation
and found that sanitary flows from multi-dwelling structures represent a minor portion of the
flows carried by any given pipe, and sanitary flows from additional dwelling units on those multi-
dwelling zoned properties are unlikely to significantly affect the system. The Bureau
Environmental Services regularly analyzes sanitary and combined system, in conjunction with
planning projections from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, to determine priority areas
for both capacity and structural upgrades. Over time, these capital projects will address any
localized issues. Moreover, all developments are required to connect to sanitary sewer service
and meet current building and sanitation codes. Where local existing infrastructure is not
adequate or available to serve proposed development, system extensions and/or upgrades will
be required as part of the development review process. (see BES letter dated August 31, 2019)
The BHD map amendments primarily affect properties that already have multi-dwelling zoning.
The two exceptions are properties at 1021 NE 33rd Avenue and 5631 SE Belmont Street, totaling a
little over three acres of land, which are being rezoned from single-dwelling R5 to multi-dwelling
RM1 zoning. These properties are in an area with sanitary sewer service and has no identified
deficiencies.
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Stormwater
Stormwater is conveyed through the combined sewer system, pipes, ditches, or drainageways to
streams and rivers. In some cases, stormwater is managed in detention facilities, other vegetated
facilities, or allowed to infiltrate in natural areas. Safe conveyance of stormwater is an issue in
some areas, particularly in the hilly areas of west Portland and some parts of outer southeast
which lack comprehensive conveyance systems and where infiltration is limited by geology or
high groundwater. Since 1999, the Stormwater Management Manual (SWMM) has provided
policy and design requirements for stormwater management throughout the City of Portland.
The requirements apply to all development, redevelopment, and improvement projects within
the City of Portland on private and public property and in the public right-of-way.  In some cases,
solutions may not be technically or financially feasible. Stormwater impacts are assessed based
on the amount of impervious area and building coverage that occurs on a parcel. The BHD
changes do not significantly increase either the allowable building coverage or impervious area
from existing zoning allowances. Further, reducing minimum on-site parking requirements and
limits on surface parking areas could result in even less impervious area. Provisions that
encourage the preservation of large trees through the transfer of development rights and
required deep rear setbacks in East Portland, as well as allowing stormwater facilities to count
toward minimum landscaping, provide additional environmental and stormwater benefits.
The BHD map amendments primarily affect properties that already have multi-dwelling zoning.
The two exceptions are properties at 1021 NE 33rd Avenue and 5631 SE Belmont Street, totaling a
little over three acres of land, which are being rezoned from single-dwelling R5 to multi-dwelling
RM1 zoning. These properties are in locations that do not have identified stormwater constraints.
They are not in locations with high water tables and have soils deemed suitable for infiltration.
c. Public services for transportation system facilities are capable of supporting the uses allowed by
the zone or will be capable by the time development is complete. Transportation capacity must be
capable of supporting the uses allowed by the zone by the time development is complete, and in
the planning period defined by the Oregon Transportation Rule, which is 20 years from the date
the Transportation System Plan was adopted. Limitations on development level or mitigation
measures may be necessary in order to assure transportation services are adequate.
414. Finding:  The adopted 2035 Comprehensive Plan includes the Transportation Systems Plan (TSP),
which was adopted in three phases (Ordinance 187832, 188177, and 188957).  Phase 1 and 2 was
submitted as part Task Four of Periodic Review; and both were approved by LCDC Order 18 –
WKTSK – 001897 on August 8, 2018, but are not yet acknowledged. Phase 3 of the Transportation
System Plan was adopted as a post-acknowledgement plan amendment by Ordinance No. 188957,
became effective on June 23, 2018.  The TSP includes a congestion performance analysis of the
2035 Comprehensive Plan Map.
The BHD amendments do not change the functional classification of any existing or proposed
transportation facility, nor do they change the standards implementing a functional classification
system. Therefore, the amendments do not have a significant effect under (a) or (b).
The BHD amendments expand the types of housing allowed, especially in the lower density RM1
and RM2 multi-dwelling zones, which make up 92 percent of the multi-dwelling zoned land in
Portland. The change to regulating density by FAR will provide more flexibility for how many units
are allowed inside the building, which will allow for a wider range of smaller housing types and
sizes. In RM2 zone, which is often located along transit corridors, will allow for a higher density that
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

is similar to adjacent mixed-use commercial zones. After accounting for the BLI constraints, the
development capacity in BHD zones increases by about 14,000 units. As required by ORS 195.036,
the BLI allocation model uses Metro’s population forecast to determine where new housing units
are likely to be allocated. The BHD capacity and growth allocation model shows minor changes to
the spatial distribution of housing units across Portland. This data was then evaluated by the
Portland Bureau of Transportation (PBOT) (see PBOT memo, dated September 6, 2019).
With regard to (c), the PBOT analysis found that peak PM hour traffic resulting from the BHD
amendments is not significant. The added traffic is widely spread across the City. The current and
proposed housing types are consistent land uses within the context of the descriptions of the
functional classifications of existing or planned transportation facilities.  Therefore, the
amendments do not have a significant effect under (A).
In the six areas where there is expected to be increased household growth, peak PM hour vehicle
traffic is dispersed across the transportation network in these areas. With the exception of several
“hot spot” streets of concern described below, this additional traffic is not expected to degrade the
performance of existing or planned transportation facilities such that they would not meet the
performance standards in the TSP. Therefore, the amendments do not have a significant effect
under (B).
As part of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan process, PBOT and ODOT identified a list of streets of
concern where future congestion may make it difficult for jurisdictional standards to be met. The
modelling shows that the minor impacts are not large in terms of absolute numbers of added
vehicles during peak PM hour (average 18 trips). These added trips could degrade the performance
of these facilities. However, there are mitigating factors and strategies that should reduce the
impact of these changes:
1. This is a high-level analysis that does not factor in redistribution of growth (reduction in the
number of households in other parts of the system) nor does it reassign traffic that might
be diverted to other less congested streets. These refinements to the analysis could result
in lower added traffic to these segments;
2. The BHD amendments include mitigating strategies that serve to improve mode split
performance and limit traffic impacts which were not able to be incorporated into the
analysis model. First, minimum parking requirements are being reduced. BHD further
promotes a walkable form through regulations on the amount of building façade that can
occupied with garages and prohibiting off-street parking between the building and the
street.
3. Transportation Demand Management Strategies
The Transportation Planning Rule defines Transportation Demand Management as:
“actions which are designed to change travel behavior to improve performance of
transportation facilities and to reduce need for additional road capacity.” Reducing demand
for automobile trips is a key strategy for offsetting potential transportation impacts from
BHD.
• Off-street Parking Management. A key tool in transportation demand management, as
identified in the Transportation Planning Rule, is parking management. To reduce reliance
on automobiles, the Transportation Planning Rule requires local governments within an
MPO to achieve a 10 percent reduction in the number of parking spaces per capita over a
planning period (660-012-0045). Consistent with this approach to reducing reliance on
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

automobiles and promoting a walkable urban form, the BHD amendments eliminate
minimum off-street parking requirements on small sites (up to 10,000 square feet) in the
multi-dwelling zones. On larger sites, the minimum required parking ratio is reduced by half
-- from one space for each unit to one space for every two units.
• Pedestrian-supportive development. The Transportation Planning Rule encourages
pedestrian-friendly development that makes it safe and convenient for trips to be made by
walking, and that facilities less driving to meet daily needs. The BHD amendments include
new requirements that will improve the pedestrian environment and encourage more
pedestrian trips in multi-dwelling zones. It limits front garages and parking structures to 50
percent of buildings along streets. It also disallows parking from being located between
buildings along streets and it requires building entrances to be oriented to streets or a
courtyard connected to a street.
•  Improved street connectivity in East Portland centers. The Transportation Planning Rule
recognizes the importance of street connectivity in making it “more convenient for people
to walk, bicycle, use transit, use automobile travel more efficiently, and drive less to meet
their daily needs,” especially in centers. The BHD amendments facilitate street connections
and improve connectivity in East Portland centers by requiring street frontages wide
enough to provide space for new street connections and by calculating development
allowances prior to street dedication.
• Financial TDM incentives for larger apartments. Portland City Council adopted an initial
package of TDM measures with the 2035 Comprehensive Plan in 2016. These measures
mandate certain multimodal financial incentives with new mixed-use buildings with more
than 10 dwelling units (Portland City Code Chapter 17.107). The BHD amendments expand
these measures to multi-dwelling zones in locations close to frequent transit, projects with
buildings with 10 or more units will be required to use strategies that reduce transportation
impacts, such as by providing residents with transit passes, bike share or car share
memberships, and information on transportation options. This strategy will reduce
transportation demand in multi-dwelling zone areas where transportation trips are
expected to shift and on the overall transportation network.
• On-street parking management. The Transportation Planning Rule points to the
designation of residential on-street parking districts as a tool that local governments within
an MPO can use to reduce reliance on automobile trips (660-012-0045). Portland has had
an Area Parking Permit Program in effect since 1981. In recent years, this program has
expanded to include 17 zones with neighborhoods and businesses collaborating with PBOT
to create the rules for their zone. Per City Council ordinance, the Area Parking Permit
Program can impose a surcharge on parking permits. The money raised from the surcharge
can then be used to fund Transportation Demand Management strategies that reduce
automobile trips. This includes a Transportation Wallet program where participants can
receive significantly reduced transit, bike share, and other mobility passes in exchange for
forgoing an on-street parking permit. PBOT will continue to seek opportunities to work with
neighborhoods to expand the Area Parking Permit Program to address areas where traffic
and parking congestion are increasing.
• “Smart Trips” education and outreach. Another proven transportation demand
management strategy is the provision of transportation options information and
encouragement. Portland has been a national leader in this field through its Smart Trips
program. Smart Trips incorporates an innovative and highly effective individualized
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

marketing methodology, which hand-delivers packets and personalized emails to residents
who wish to learn more about all their transportation options. Key components feature
biking and walking maps, robust and sophisticated online, digital and paper resources, and
organized activities which get people out in their neighborhoods or places of employment
to shop, work, and discover how many trips they can easily, conveniently and safely make
without using a car. Evaluations over the past 15 years show that Smart Trips reduces drive
alone trips by about 9%. In recent years, Smart Trips has targeted people that are new to
Portland and those who are moving within the city to new homes. Research shows that this
is often the most effective time to encourage people to try new ways of getting around.
• Safe Routes to Schools program. Like Smart Trips, Portland’s Safe Routes to Schools
program reduces automobile trips through information, encouragement, and investments
in infrastructure that make it safe for students to walk and bike to school. In 2018, the
program reported that citywide 42% of K-5th grade trips and 40% of 6th-8th grade trips
utilized active transportation. This program, which is an important tool for reducing auto
trips during peak hours, will continue citywide under BHD. PBOT will continue to evaluate
targeted Safe Routes to Schools programming in TAZs expected to see increased growth
through the BHD amendments.
• Bicycle parking improvements. An additional citywide transportation demand strategy is
the provision of bicycle parking (Transportation Planning Rule 660-012-0045 3(a)). Research
has shown that the lack of a safe and secure place to park a bicycle is a key barrier for
bicycling as transportation. Portland’s existing bicycle parking code (Portland City Code
Chapter 33.266.200) was primarily written in 1996. A Recommended Draft of the Bicycle
Parking Code update has advanced to City Council for deliberation this fall. These changes
will update the minimum required amount of short- and long-term parking, enhances
security standards to help prevent bike theft, and accommodates a greater variety of
bicycles. These changes will apply to multi-dwelling zones, and are anticipated to reduce
some automobile trips from the transportation network.
4. Planning and infrastructure investments.
Additional transportation planning may also occur in and near the TAZs where the Housing
Allocation analysis shows development increases. This planning can identify opportunities
for improving multimodal networks, including access to transit. This planning can identify
small scale capital projects – less than $500,000 - that improve safety and comfort for
people walking, bicycling, and taking transit. Projects that emerge through this planning can
also be included in the future project lists for the citywide programs listed in the TSP.
5. Planned Capital Projects
The impacts of added auto trips from BHD are expected to be on identified hot spots on
both PBOT and ODOT managed facilities. Through the process of adopting the 2035
Comprehensive Plan and the 2035 Transportation System Plan, PBOT and ODOT agreed to
perform refinement planning in areas identified with potential safety and/or projected
capacity issues. See Projected ODOT “Hot Spots” Refinement Plan and Other Agency
Common Priority Projects, (TSP Chapter 6, page 281). Major refinement plans are
necessary when a transportation need exists, but the mode, function, and general location
of a transportation improvement have not been determined, and a range of actions must
be considered before identifying a specific project or projects.  These refinement plans are
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

still pending, therefore, mitigating the increased traffic from the BHD amendments can be
incorporated into that planning process.
Also, the additional auto trips from BHD can be analyzed, and to the extent possible,
mitigated during the planning, design, and implementation of future planned capital
projects in roadway segments identified as areas of concern (previously identified in the
TSP as locations that may fail to meet mobility standards in 2035). The adopted TSP Project
List identifies several improvement projects on or near the impacted facilities that could
incorporate future measures to mitigate these minor effects.
The modelling shows that the overall impact of BHD on the citywide transportation system is not
significant. It does, however, result in localized impacts on road segments that have previously
been identified as areas of concern. These impacts are not large in terms of absolute numbers of
added vehicles during peak PM hour and can be mitigated through a combination of transportation
demand management strategies, planned capital projects, and targeted planning and infrastructure
investments. Furthermore, as noted below in the findings for the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, the
BHD amendments are consistent with the goals and policies of Chapter 9 (Transportation) of the
2035 Comprehensive Plan and the findings in response to those goals and policies are incorporated
by reference. Therefore, the BHD amendments are consistent with the requirements of Statewide
Planning Goal 12.
d. The school district within which the site is located has adequate enrollment capacity to
accommodate any projected increase in student population over the number that would result
from development in the existing zone. This criterion applies only to sites that are within a school
district that has an adopted school facility plan that has been acknowledged by the City of
Portland.
415. Finding:  David Douglas School District (DDSD) is the only school district in Portland with an adopted
school facility plan. The Buildable Lands Inventory calculates available development capacity and
predicts where new households will be allocated over the planning period. Comparing the BHD
growth allocation to the current Comprehensive Plan allocation, the net change to households in
the David Douglas School District is a reduction of 1,500 units (roughly a 12% decrease from 12,000
units previously forecasted). This shift is primarily due to how the BHD changes affect other parts of
the city and reflect recent development trends that have more growth in the Central City and inner
neighborhoods and slower growth in East Portland. The David Douglas School District has indicated
that it can accommodate these changes into their future forecasting for their facility plan.
33.855.060 Approval Criteria for Other Changes
In addition to the base zones and Comprehensive Plan designations, the Zoning Map also shows overlay
zones.  An amendment will be approved (either quasi-judicial or legislative) if the review body finds that
all of the following approval criteria are met:
A. Where a designation is proposed to be added, the designation must be shown to be needed to
address a specific situation. When a designation is proposed to be removed, it must be shown
that the reason for applying the designation no longer exists or has been addressed through
other means;
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

416. Finding:  The Better Housing by Design project proposes expanding the Design (“d”) Overlay Zone to
apply to all RH zoning (new RM3 and RM4 zones). The majority (84 percent) of the RH zone is
already within the design overlay or in historic districts (such the Alphabet Historic District in
Northwest Portland). Portland applies the design overlay to zones that allow large-scale
development. This helps manage the design of significant amounts of change and to ensure that
high-profile, larger-scale development is well designed. Most RH zoning is mapped in locations
close to the Central City, in centers, or near light rail stations, places intended for significant
housing density. The RH (RM3 and RM4) zoning allows buildings 65 to 100 feet tall, which matches
or exceeds scale allowed in mixed use zones (EX and CM3) where the design overlay is always
applied. The RM3 and RM4 zones will be among the zones where the d-overlay is always applied
(along with the EX, RX, CX and CM3 zones). For most development outside the Central City, the
design overlay zone provides projects with options to either go through a discretionary design
review process or to use clear and objective design standards. As part of the d-overlay expansion,
the d-overlay will be applied to properties with RM3 and RM4 zoning located in historic and
conservation districts, although properties in these districts will continue to be subject to historic
resources review instead of design review.
The Alternative Design Density (a) overlay zone provides opportunities for additional housing
density. In the multi-dwelling zones where it applies, the a-overlay zone allows for bonus density in
exchange for design review, as well as corner triplexes and flag lots in the R2 zone for projects
meeting design standards. The BHD amendments remove the a-overlay zone from all multi-dwelling
zones because the proposed base zone changes provide much of the flexibility for additional
housing units provided by this overlay zone, making the a-overlay provisions redundant. The
amendments also remove the a-overlay from all non-residential zones, where the a-overlay is
occasionally mapped but provides no regulatory allowances.
B. The addition or removal is consistent with the purpose and adoption criteria of the regulation
and any applicable goals and policies of the Comprehensive Plan and any area plans; and
417. Finding:  Expansion of the Design (“d”) Overlay Zone is consistent with the purpose of this overlay
zone to promote quality high-density development adjacent to transit facilities. Applying the d-
overlay zone to all RM3 and RM4 (current RH) that does not already have this overlay zone is
consistent with this purpose, as these zones are intended for high-density residential development
and are mapped in areas close to transit facilities. Applying the d-overlay zone to the RM3 and RM4
zones is consistent with other applications of the d-overlay, as these zones allow buildings 65 to
100 feet tall, which matches or exceeds scale allowed in mixed use zones (EX and CM3) where the
design overlay is always applied. As noted earlier in these findings, the BHD amendments are
consistent with the goals and policies of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan and adopted area plans,
which include multiple policies that call for guiding development to enhance the positive
characteristics of Portland and its neighborhoods, for which purpose the d-overlay zone is an
important implementation tool.
The purpose of the Alternative Design Density (‘a’) Overlay Zone is to focus development on vacant
sites, preserve existing housing and encourage new development that is compatible with and
supportive of the positive qualities of residential neighborhoods. The overlay zone provisions have
gradually been shifted into base zone provisions since the overlay’s inception in 1993. In the multi-
dwelling zones where it applies, the only remaining a-overlay provisions are allowance for 50
percent additional density in exchange for design review, and allowances for corner triplexes and
flag lots in the R2 zone for projects meeting design standards. These a-overlay provisions for the
Better Housing By Design Project
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

multi-dwelling zones are being deleted, since the proposed multi-dwelling zone regulations will
allow much of the flexibility for additional housing units provided by the a-overlay allowances. This
is primarily due to the proposed shift to regulating development intensity by FAR in the new RM1
and RM2 zones (former R3, R2, R1), instead of by unit density. For example, the new RM1 zone will
allow a triplex or a fourplex (or more units) on a 5,000 square foot lot, instead of the current R2
zone limit of two units. This new base zone flexibility makes the a-overlay provisions for the multi-
dwelling zones redundant. Other BHD amendments address the intent of the a-overlay in
encouraging compatibility with the positive qualities of residential neighborhoods. This is achieved
by design-related BHD amendments that require continuation in new development of the
characteristics of residential neighborhoods, such as through limiting front garages and parking,
requiring street-oriented entrances, expanding requirements to landscaped front setbacks,
requiring step-downs in building height adjacent to single-dwelling zoning, and expanding
requirements for outdoor spaces. As noted earlier in these findings, the BHD amendments are
consistent with the goals and policies of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan and adopted area plans,
many of which call for allowing for housing density that is designed to integrate with the
characteristics of residential areas.
C. In the Marquam Hill plan district, relocation of a scenic viewpoint must be shown to result in a
net benefit to the public, taking into consideration such factors as public access, the quality of
the view, the breadth of the view, and the public amenities that are or will be available.
418. Finding: There are no changes to scenic viewpoints as a result of the BHD amendments. This
criterion does not apply.
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report  Page i

Volume 1:
Staff Report
As Amended by
City Council
December 2, 2019
EXHIBIT B
Page ii Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report December 2, 2019

The Better Housing by Design project is updating Portland’s multi-
dwelling zoning rules to meet needs of current and future residents:
For more information …
Visit the project website: www.portlandoregon.gov/bps/betterhousing
Email the project team: betterhousing@portlandoregon.gov
Call project staff:  503-823-4203

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report  Page iii

Summary
The Better Housing by Design As Amended by City Council report includes Zoning Code, Zoning Map,
and Comprehensive Plan and Map amendments that will affect how development is regulated in
Portland’s multi-dwelling zones. The preceding Recommended Draft incorporated the Portland Planning
and Sustainability Commission’s (PSC) changes to the earlier Proposed Draft and served as the PSC’s
recommendation to City Council. The As Amended report includes amendments passed by City Council
on November 21, 2019.
The major components of the Better Housing by Design amendments include the following:
 Diverse housing options and affordability. Amendments provide more flexibility for a diverse
range of housing options – regulating development intensity by building size instead of numbers
of units – and expand incentives for affordable housing and physically-accessible units.
 Outdoor spaces and green elements. Amendments expand requirements for outdoor spaces for
residents, provide more options for innovative green options to meet landscaping requirements,
reduce parking requirements, and limit large paved areas.
 Building design and scale. Amendments include design standards that limit front garages,
require entrances oriented to the street, facilitate compact development, and provide new
design options for development on major corridors.
 East Portland standards and street connections. Amendments include standards focused on
improving outcomes in East Portland, including approaches to facilitate new street connections.
Other major components that are part of the As Amended report include a new array of multi-dwelling
zones and related Zoning Map changes, corresponding changes to Comprehensive Plan land use
designations, and amendments to commercial/mixed use zone regulations and other Zoning Code
chapters to bring consistency with the Better Housing by Design proposals for the multi-dwelling zones.

Next Steps
City Council held public hearings on the Better Housing by Design Recommended Draft on October 2 and
November 6 of 2019. City Council deliberated and voted on amendments to the Recommended Draft on
November 21, 2019. City Council is scheduled to make a final decision on the Better Housing by Design
provisions on December 18, 2019, with the effective date for the new regulations and map amendments
scheduled for March 1, 2020. Project updates will be posted on the project website:
www.portlandoregon.gov/bps/betterhousing.

Page iv Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report December 2, 2019

Acknowledgments

City Council
Ted Wheeler, Mayor
Chloe Eudaly
Nick Fish
Amanda Fritz
Jo Ann Hardesty
Planning and Sustainability Commission
Katherine Schultz, Chair
Chris Smith, Vice Chair
Eli Spevak, Vice Chair
Jeff Bachrach
Ben Bortolazzo
Mike Houck
Katie Larsell
Daisy Quinonez
Teresa St Martin
André Baugh (former)
Andrés Oswill (former)
Michelle Rudd (former

Bureau of Planning and Sustainability (BPS)
Ted Wheeler, Mayor, Commissioner-in-Charge
Andrea Durbin, Director
Joe Zehnder, Interim Director

Project Team
Tom Armstrong, Supervising Planner
Bill Cunningham, Project Manager
Marc Asnis, City Planner I, Urban Design
Shannon Buono, Senior Planner
Leslie Lum, City Planner II

Additional BPS Contributors
Tyler Bump, Senior Economic Planner
Michele Crim, Sustainability Manager
Eden Dabbs, Communications
Jena Hughes, Planning Assistant
Nick Kobel, Associate Planner
Neil Loehlein, GIS Analyst
Kevin Martin, Growth Modeling
Derek Miller, GIS/Map App
Carmen Piekarski, GIS Analyst

Portland Bureau of Transportation
Denver Igarta, Supervising Planner

Technical Advisory Group
Ted Reid, Metro
Laura Lehman, BDS
Stephen Himes, BES
Jessica Conner, Housing Bureau
Suzanne Zuniga, Housing Bureau
Katie Dunham, Parks & Recreation
Gary Boyles, Portland Fire
Julie Livingston, Home Forward

Consultant Team
Otak, Inc., Code Modeling Prototypes
Economic & Planning Systems, Economic
Analysis
Chip Lazenby, Facilitation
MultiCultural Collaborative, Facilitation

This project is partially funded by a Metro Community Planning and Development Grant, as part of a regional grant
program that assists local planning efforts that support development of future housing and jobs.
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report Page v
Planning and Sustainability Commission Letter of Transmittal to City Council

Page vi Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report December 2, 2019
Planning and Sustainability Commission Letter of Transmittal to City Council

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report Page vii
Planning and Sustainability Commission Letter of Transmittal to City Council

Page viii Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report December 2, 2019
Planning and Sustainability Commission Letter of Transmittal to City Council

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report Page ix
Table of Contents
Volume 1
Section 1: Introduction .............................................................. 1
Major Proposed Changes  ................................................................... 4
Summary of the Proposed Multi-Dwelling Zones  .............................. 6
Section 2: Direction from the Comprehensive Plan .................. 7
Section 3: Public Involvement .................................................. 11
Section 4: Proposal and Analysis .............................................. 17
New Zoning Framework  .................................................................... 18
Zoning Map Amendments  ................................................................. 20
Amendments to Zoning Code Regulations  ........................................ 27
Comparison of Current and Proposed Development Standards  ....... 55
Volume 2  (under separate cover)
Zoning Code Amendments (also includes Comprehensive Plan Amendments)
Volume 3  (under separate cover)
Additional Zoning Code Amendments
(consists of code amendments that provide consistency among zoning code chapters, eliminate
redundant regulations, and update references to the multi-dwelling zones)
Appendices  (under separate covers)
Appendix A: Guidance from the Comprehensive Plan
Appendix B:  Code Modeling – Prototypes
Appendix C:  Code Modeling – Feasibility Analysis
Appendix D: Better Housing by Design – Concept Report
Appendix E: Better Housing by Design – Assessment Report
Appendix F: Better Housing by Design – Displacement Risk Analysis
Appendix G: Connected Centers Street Plan
Page x Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report December 2, 2019

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report Page 1
Section I: Introduction

Better Housing by Design: An Update to Portland’s Multi-Dwelling Zoning Code is being led by the City
of Portland’s Bureau of Planning and Sustainability (BPS). This project is revising Zoning Code
development standards in Portland’s multi-dwelling zones (R3, R2, R1, and RH) outside the Central City.
These medium to high-density residential zones play a key role in providing new housing to meet the
needs of a growing Portland. The many types of housing built in these zones include apartment and
condominium buildings, fourplexes, rowhouses, and houses.
The project’s objective is to revise City regulations to better implement Comprehensive Plan policies
that call for:
 Housing opportunities in and around centers and corridors.
 Housing diversity, including affordable and accessible housing.
 Design that supports residents’ health and active living.
 Pedestrian-oriented street environments.
 Safe and convenient street and pedestrian connections.
 Design that respects neighborhood context and the distinct characteristics of different parts of
Portland.
 Nature and green infrastructure that are integrated into the urban environment.
 Low-impact development that helps limit climate change and urban heat island effects.
This project includes a focus on East Portland to foster more positive development outcomes that reflect
the area’s distinct characteristics and needs. East Portland, largely located east of 82nd Avenue, includes
large amounts of multi-dwelling zoning, often in areas that lack good street connections to local
destinations and transit. Project staff have coordinated their work with the Portland Bureau of
Transportation’s (PBOT) Connected Centers Street Plan. PBOT’s project is developing new approaches
for creating street and pedestrian connections, with an initial focus on East Portland (see Appendix G).

What is in the As Amended Report?
The Better Housing by Design As Amended report includes proposals for Zoning Code, Zoning Map, and
Comprehensive Plan and Map amendments that will affect how development is regulated in Portland’s
multi-dwelling zones, and also includes amendments to the commercial/mixed use zones to provide
consistency across the two types of zones. The As Amended report incorporates City Council’s
amendments to the preceding Recommended Draft, which served as the Planning and Sustainability
Commission’s (PSC) recommendation to City Council.
The earlier Proposed Draft served as project staff’s proposal to the PSC and was informed by public
comments received during the Discussion Draft public review period. The Better Housing by Design
proposals for code amendments are based on general concepts for code improvements outlined in the
Better Housing by Design Concept Report (See Appendix D). These concepts were informed by
Comprehensive Plan policies, direction from past planning projects, and community input from a series
Page 2 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report December 2, 2019
of Stakeholder Working Group meetings and other public involvement activities (see Public Involvement,
page 11). The Concept Report was also informed by the Better Housing by Design Assessment Report
(see Appendix E), which provided background information on policies, recent construction activity in the
multi-dwelling zones, zoning history, development and design issues, case studies, demographics, and
housing market conditions.
The Better Housing by Design (BHD) proposals include the following major components:
 Modified Zoning Map with a new set of multi-dwelling zones.
 Modified Comprehensive Plan and Map with new multi-dwelling land use designations.
 Amendments to the Multi-Dwelling chapter of the Zoning Code (Chapter 33.120).
 Amendments to other Zoning Code chapters that regulate development in the multi-dwelling
zones (including chapters 33.258 [Nonconforming Situations], 33.266 [Parking, Loading, And
Transportation And Parking Demand Management], 33.612 [Lots in Multi-Dwelling Zones],
33.910 [Definitions], and 33.930 [Measurements]).
 Amendments to other base zone chapters, such as 33.130 (Commercial/Mixed Use Zones), that
also allow multi-dwelling development to bring consistency with the BHD code amendments.
 Expansion of the Design (“d”) Overlay Zone to apply to all properties with RH zoning, and
removal of the Alternative Design Density (a) overlay zone.

Why does this project matter?
Between now and 2035, 80 percent of the roughly 100,000 new housing units developed in Portland
will be in multi-dwelling buildings. Nearly one-quarter of the total growth will be in multi-dwelling
zones outside the Central City. Many of those buildings will be along transit corridors and in mixed use
centers.
This housing development in and near centers and corridors helps to meet local and regional objectives
for locating housing close to services and transit. It also means that a lot more Portlanders will be living
in multi-dwelling buildings and that the
design of this housing will be important
for the quality of living environments
for residents and neighborhoods.
The Better Housing by Design project’s
draft zoning code amendments are
intended to help ensure that new
development in the multi-dwelling
zones better meets the needs of
current and future residents, and
contributes to the positive qualities of
the places where they are built.

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report Page 3
Key objectives
The proposals in this document address four main topics related to Comprehensive Plan objectives:
 Diverse housing options and affordability to meet diverse housing needs.
 Outdoor spaces and green elements to support human and environmental health.
 Building design and scale that contributes to pedestrian-friendly streets and relates to context.
 East Portland standards and street connections that respond to the area’s distinct characteristics
and needs.
Successfully addressing these objectives through these proposals and other efforts will expand housing
opportunities for Portlanders and will help to make residential living in Portland’s multi-dwelling areas
healthier, more connected and better designed.

Addressing equity
Multi-dwelling zones provide affordable housing opportunities. A large portion of Portland’s new
affordable housing is developed in the multi-dwelling zones. These medium- and higher-density zones
will continue to play a critical role in providing a broad range of housing to meet the needs of all
Portlanders.
The livability and quality of multi-dwelling housing has a disproportionate impact on the quality of life
of people of color and low-income households. Larger proportions of these populations live in multi-
dwelling housing than the general population.
This project has been informed by extensive outreach to people of color, low-income and immigrant
households. It continues the work of past projects that focused on healthy housing in multi-dwelling
areas. These projects identified the need for residential open spaces, housing design supportive of
healthy living, and better and safer connections to neighborhood destinations – especially in East
Portland.

Examples of the wide range of housing types built in the multi-dwelling zones
Page 4 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report December 2, 2019
Major Proposed Changes
The Better Housing by Design proposals include major changes to how the zoning code shapes
development in the multi-dwelling zones. The proposals:
 Provide a revised set of zones that relate to different types of places. Have smaller scale buildings
in zones that transition to single-dwelling zones. Allow larger buildings and small commercial uses
along major corridors. The existing R3 and R2 zones are combined into a single new zone (RM1) that
limits building height to 35 feet (two- to three-stories) to relate to the scale of single-dwelling zones.
 Regulate development intensity by building scale (how big the building is) not the number of units
in the building. This provides flexibility for a greater diversity of housing and expands housing
options close to services and transit.
 Add incentives for affordable housing and accessible units. Use expanded development bonuses
and “transfers of development rights” (TDR) to encourage development of new and preservation of
existing affordable housing. Also provide a development bonus for projects with physically-
accessible units to expand housing options for people of all ages and abilities.
 Require outdoor spaces. This includes requirements for courtyards or other shared outdoor areas
for projects on large sites and new requirements for outdoor spaces in the higher-density zones.

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report Page 5

 Encourage innovative green features and tree preservation. Allow eco roofs and raised courtyards
to meet landscaping requirements, and offer a TDR allowance for projects that preserve large trees.
 Limit front garages and surface parking. These changes, coupled with less required parking, reduce
the prominence of paving and vehicle areas and create more pedestrian-oriented places.
 Require landscaped front setbacks. This will help integrate higher-density development with the
green street frontages typical of Portland’s residential areas.
 Shape the scale and design of large buildings. Require facades of larger buildings to be divided into
smaller components and for buildings to step down in height when next to single-dwelling zones.
 Expand the design review overlay zone to all the high-density residential zones (RH – to become
RM3 and RM4).
 Apply standards specific to East Portland for better design suited to the area’s characteristics.
Require deeper rear setbacks so the centers of the area’s large blocks are greener and less built up.
Require narrow sites to be combined into larger sites for better site design. Change regulations to
make it easier to include street connections with new development.

Page 6 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report December 2, 2019
Summary of the Proposed Multi-Dwelling Zones
The proposed framework for the multi-dwelling zones includes four new zones that are based on existing
zones, but have been refined to relate to different types of places, varying by scale and other development
standards. The intensity of development in each zone is regulated by floor area ratio or “FAR” (an FAR of 1 to
1 means 5,000 square feet of building floor area is allowed on a site with 5,000 square feet of land). Each
zone includes a base FAR that will apply to most development, as well as a bonus FAR for projects that
provide community benefits, such as affordable housing.

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report Page 7
Section 2: Direction from the Comprehensive Plan
Portland’s Comprehensive Plan provides policy direction regarding development in the multi-dwelling
zones. The 2035 Comprehensive Plan guides how and where land is developed to prepare for and
respond to population and job growth. The Better Housing by Design project is proposing amendments
to some of the Comprehensive Plan’s most important implementation tools – the Zoning Code and
Zoning Map.
Project staff developed the Better Housing by Design amendments to be consistent with the
Comprehensive Plan’s guiding principles, goals, and policies. The following summarizes how these
amendments will help implement the guiding principles and summarizes major policy direction relevant
to development in the multi-dwelling zones. More detail on Comprehensive Plan policy direction is
provided in Appendix A: Guidance from the Comprehensive Plan.

Guiding Principles
The 2035 Comprehensive Plan includes five guiding principles to ensure that implementation of the plan
is balanced, integrated and multi-disciplinary. The Better Housing by Design project helps advance the
five guiding principles in the following ways (more detail is provided in the Proposal and Analysis section
of this report):
1. Economic Prosperity
Support a low-carbon economy and foster employment growth, competitiveness, and equitably-
distributed household prosperity.
This project supports this principle by expanding opportunities for commercial uses in multi-dwelling
zones along corridors and near transit stations, and by expanding housing options in locations where
residents can be served by and support commercial services. The amendments contribute to more
equitably distributed household prosperity with incentives for the creation of affordable housing. They
also do this by supporting the development of compact housing close to services, which helps people
spend less on transportation and utilities, and by expanding allowances for “live-work” arrangements in
which households can have a small home-based business.
2. Human Health
Avoid or minimize negative health impacts and improve opportunities for Portlanders to lead healthy,
active lives.
This project furthers this principle by increasing opportunities for the housing people need to live secure
and healthy lives. The proposals also contribute to human health by ensuring new housing includes
residential outdoor spaces that support healthy living and social interaction, through limiting large
paved areas that contribute to urban heat island impacts, by facilitating active mobility by allowing more
people to live close to services, and by supporting the development of a wide range of housing that can
meet the diverse needs, abilities, and economic conditions of Portlanders.

Page 8 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report December 2, 2019
3. Environmental Health
Weave nature into the city and foster a healthy environment that sustains people, neighborhoods, and
fish and wildlife. Recognize the intrinsic value of nature and sustain the ecosystem services of Portland’s
air, water, and land.
This project helps implement this principle by providing incentives for tree preservation, requiring
outdoors spaces that expand opportunities for trees and other green elements, limiting paved surfaces,
supporting the use of eco roofs and other green infrastructure, and by expanding options for the
development of energy-efficient compact housing in locations supportive of low-carbon transportation
options (such as transit, walking, and bicycling).
4. Equity
Promote equity and environmental justice by reducing disparities, minimizing burdens, extending
community benefits, increasing the amount of affordable housing, affirmatively furthering fair housing,
proactively fighting displacement, and improving socio-economic opportunities for under-served and
under-represented populations. Intentionally engage under-served and under-represented populations in
decisions that affect them. Specifically recognize, address, and prevent repetition of the injustices
suffered by communities of color throughout Portland’s history.
This project advances this principle by providing incentives for the creation of new affordable housing
and for preserving existing affordable housing. The proposals also contribute to equity through
development bonuses for “visitable” housing that is physically-accessible to people with a range of
abilities, through provisions that address the need for street connections and outdoor spaces in East
Portland, by increasing opportunities for home-based businesses and services along East Portland’s
corridors, and through focused engagement with low-income renters and other historically under-
represented populations to help shape the project’s proposals.
5. Resilience
Reduce risk and improve the ability of individuals, communities, economic systems, and the natural and
built environments to withstand, recover from, and adapt to changes from natural hazards, human-
made disasters, climate change, and economic shifts.
The project’s proposals support this principle by helping to focus growth in and around centers and
corridors to avoid sensitive natural areas and hazards, contributing to complete neighborhoods that
support neighborhood resilience and a low-carbon economy, supporting a diversity of housing options
responsive to changing demographics and household needs, and limiting urban heat islands that will be
an increasing threat in a warming climate.

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report Page 9
Comprehensive Plan Policies Related to the Multi-Dwelling Zones
A wide range of Comprehensive Plan policies provide guidance regarding development and intended
outcomes in the multi-dwelling zones. These policies played a major role in shaping the Better Housing
by Design project proposals and are listed in detail in Appendix A. In summary, policies especially
relevant to the multi-dwelling zones call for development to:
 Accommodate housing growth, especially in and around centers, corridors, and transit station
areas.
 Contribute to providing a diversity of housing types, including an adequate supply of affordable
housing and physically-accessible housing.
 Provide healthy and safe environments for residents, with design that supports active living.
 Provide pedestrian-oriented environments that are accessible to people of all ages and abilities.
 Contribute to a network of safe and accessible street and pedestrian connections, especially
around centers and transit stations.
 Use design that responds to and enhances the positive qualities of context, including the distinct
characteristics of Portland’s five neighborhood pattern areas.
 Integrate nature and green infrastructure into the urban environment, avoid environmental
impacts, and reduce impervious surfaces and urban heat island effects.
 Use resource-efficient design and development approaches.

The Proposal and Analysis section of this report provides a summary of the policy basis for each of the
proposals.

Page 10 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report December 2, 2019

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report Page 11
Section 3: Public Involvement

The concepts for multi-dwelling zone code
improvements that were a basis for the Better Housing
by Design Concept Report (see Appendix D) and the
subsequent proposals for zoning code amendments
were informed by a range of public involvement
activities.

Stakeholder Working Group Meetings
A series of five Stakeholder Working Group (SWG)
meetings were held from March through May 2017.
These meetings included participants with a range of
perspectives and experience, including community group representatives, development professionals,
tenant advocates, neighborhood residents, affordable housing providers and age-friendly advocates.
These meetings served as a forum for discussing issues and potential solutions, and to help inform
project staff as they developed concepts. Each meeting covered a different set of topics; three of the
meetings focused on development and street connectivity issues in Eastern Portland. Participants in the
SWG meetings were not appointed, and meetings were open to any interested community members.
This approach provided flexibility for a variety of participants with interest and experience in the specific
topics and geographies for each meeting.

Community Walks in the Jade District and Rosewood Neighborhood Centers
Walks with community stakeholders were held in the Jade District and Rosewood neighborhood centers
during October and November 2016. Participants shared perspectives on multi-dwelling development
and street connectivity issues in these areas, which served as study areas for both the Better Housing by
Design project and PBOT’s Connected Centers Street Plan project.

Roundtable Discussions with Development Professionals
Three roundtable discussions were held with affordable housing providers, designers, and builders and
developers in January and February 2017. These discussions allowed staff to hear from development
professionals about what is working or not working well with Portland’s multi-dwelling regulations and
how they can be improved. Staff also solicited feedback on potential new directions and implementation
ideas.

Initial Public Workshop
Project staff held a public workshop on February 25, 2017, to introduce the project to the broader public
and provide an initial opportunity to discuss issues related to multi-dwelling development and street
connectivity. The event was held at PCC Southeast at SE 82nd and Division to accommodate community
members who live in Eastern Portland.

Page 12 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report December 2, 2019
Public Open Houses on Draft Concepts
On June 1 and June 3, 2017, staff held public open houses to present the draft code concepts and hear
initial public input prior to the release of the Concept Report. Again, one of the open houses was held at
PCC Southeast for the convenience of East Portlanders.

Meetings with Community Groups
Project staff met with a range of community groups to introduce project issues and potential solutions,
and to receive feedback, including:
 Neighborhood district coalitions
 Jade District/APANO
 The Rosewood Initiative
 Anti-displacement PDX
 Urban League
 East Portland Action Plan Housing Subcommittee

Ongoing Communication
Regular communications about the Better Housing by Design project were made available through the
project website, monthly e-mail updates to the project mailing list, Bureau of Planning and Sustainability
newsletters, social media sites (Facebook, NextDoor and Twitter) and media releases.

WHAT STAFF HEARD
Among the many issues raised by community members during the concept development phase were:
 Participants in SWG meetings emphasized the need to address Portland’s housing challenges by
prioritizing affordable housing and expanding housing opportunities. Other important priorities
were having development contribute to pedestrian-friendly streets and usable outdoor space for
residents. Points of contention in these meetings and other community meetings included differing
perspectives on off-street parking and compatibility with neighborhood characteristics.
 East Portland community members emphasized the importance of including areas for play and
gathering as part of multi-dwelling development, especially given the many families living in
apartments in the area and the lack of parks. They also emphasized the need for designing
pedestrian connections for safety.
 Development professionals emphasized the need for predictable regulations and allowing
development flexibility. Some indicated that development and density standards in the multi-
dwelling zones complicated development; that it was easier to do multi-dwelling development in
commercial zones than in the multi-dwelling zones. Many also indicated that it was important to
reduce the cost of creating new streets because providing street connections affected the feasibility
of projects and housing affordability.
More complete information on public input, including summary notes and submitted comments from
the project’s public events, are included in the Concept Report Appendices.
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report Page 13
DISCUSSION DRAFT
The Discussion Draft, published on January 22, 2018, served as the first opportunity for the public to
review and comment on draft zoning code regulations, which were developed by staff based on ideas
for code improvements in the project’s Concept Report. The public review period for the Discussion
Draft was from January 22 through March 19, 2018. During this period, staff used a variety of
approaches for community members to learn about the Discussion Draft proposals and provide
comments, including:
 Two public open house events, held on January 31 and February 8, 2018. The first event was
held in central Portland, while the latter was held in the Gateway District for the convenience of
East Portlanders.
 A Stakeholder Working Group meeting was held on February 22, 2018 to review and discuss
the Discussion Draft proposals.
 An East Portland Residential Outdoor Spaces workshop was held on March 14, 2018, to provide
an opportunity for East Portland community members to have an in-depth discussion on
proposals for deep rear setbacks and outdoor spaces in East Portland.
 A display in the lobby of the 1900 SW Fourth Avenue Building was set up from March 7
through March 20, 2018 to publicize the Discussion Draft proposals and opportunities to provide
comments.
 A news blog post was featured on the Better Housing by Design project website.
 E-mail updates were sent to the project mailing list.
 An online questionnaire provided a convenient way to comment on specific Discussion Draft
proposals.
 Presentations and discussions were held at 20 meetings of community groups and other
organizations.
More than 350 attendees participated in public events and meetings where the Discussion Draft
proposals were presented and discussed. Staff received 76 comment submittals from individuals and
organizations.
PROPOSED DRAFT
Comments received during the Discussion Draft public review period informed the Proposed Draft,
which served as staff’s proposal to the Planning and Sustainability Commission (PSC). The Proposed
Draft was posted on the project website on May 11, 2018—32 days before the PSC’s public hearing on
June 12, 2018. As part of the Proposed Draft publication and legislative process requirements, the
following legal notices were sent:
 Form 1 Notice
State notice sent to the Oregon Department of Land Conservation and Development.
 Legislative Notice (344 notices)
City notice sent to interested parties, recognized organizations, affected bureaus, TriMet, Metro
and ODOT.
 Measure 56 Notice (33,630 notices)
State Ballot Measure 56 notice sent to owners of each property where there is a proposed
change to the base zoning of the property or where there are limits or prohibition of land uses
previously allowed in the affected zone.
Page 14 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report December 2, 2019
In addition to these legal requirements, information about the PSC hearings was featured in blog posts
on the project website, e-updates to project mailing list, and media releases and posts by BPS on Twitter
and Facebook.
The PSC received 270 pieces of testimony on the Proposed Draft from individuals, organizations, and
neighborhood associations through the Map App, mail, email, and verbally. Over 30 people testified in
person during public hearing held on June 12, 2018.
After the Planning and Sustainability Commission considered public testimony, they held a series of
seven work sessions from September 2018 through April 2019 to consider changes to the Proposed
Draft. The PSC concluded its deliberations on April 30, 2019, and voted unanimously on its
recommendations to City Council. The PSC’s Recommended Draft continued most of the major proposals
of the Proposed Draft, but included amendments based on public testimony and PSC deliberations.
Recommended Draft Amendments
Changes from the Proposed Draft incorporated into the Recommended Draft include the following:
 Allow all FAR bonuses and transfer allowances to be used in historic and conservation districts, in
both multi-dwelling and commercial/mixed use zones (the Proposed Draft excluded some bonuses
and all FAR transfer allowances from being used in historic districts).
 Allow an additional amount of FAR to be transferred from sites with historic resources in
conjunction with seismic upgrades in both the multi-dwelling and mixed use zones.
 Change the visitability standards into a bonus (instead of a requirement) providing 25 percent
additional FAR when at least 25 percent of units meet accessibility standards.
 Allow daycares (up to 3,000 square feet) on all multi-dwelling zone properties, not just along
major corridors.
 Exempt required bicycle parking from FAR calculations in the multi-dwelling and mixed use
zones, as is the case for vehicle parking.
 In the RM2, RM3, and RM4 zones, change the step-down height across local service streets from
single-dwelling zones to 45 feet (instead of 35 feet).
 Retain the existing 100-foot building height allowance in the RM4 zone within 1,000 feet of transit
stations and expand this height allowance to also apply within 500 feet of frequent transit lines
(outside historic districts).
 In the Inner Pattern Area, allow for zero side setbacks in multi-dwelling zones along Civic and
Neighborhood corridors when abutting mixed use zoning or other multi-dwelling zone properties.
 Modify the garage and structured parking limitation standards to be similar to proposed single-
dwelling zone standards. The Recommended Draft includes amendments to parking location
regulations for small housing types that were originally proposed by the Residential Infill Project.
 Allow detached accessory structures in required setbacks, regardless of housing type or site size.
 Increase the small site threshold from 7,500 square feet to 10,000 square feet. Applies to exceptions
to setback landscaping, requirements for alley access, as well as to exceptions to minimum parking
requirements in the multi-dwelling and mixed use zones.
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report Page 15
 In the RM4 zone in historic districts assign base and bonus FARs of 3:1 and 4.5:1, instead of the
earlier proposed base and bonus FARs of 4:1 and 6:1, so that new buildings are similar in scale
to larger historic buildings in this zone.
 In the RH zone in historic districts, modify the assignment of the new RM3 and RM4 zones to
better match the scale of historic buildings. In some areas, this means allowing greater scale
than is currently allowed, while in other locations, the changes will allow less building scale than
is the case currently. These mapping changes affect the Alphabet and King’s Hill historic
districts.
 Other amendments to Chapter 33.130 (Commercial/Mixed Use Zones) to provide constancy with
proposed regulations in the multi-dwelling zones, including:
- Allow historic preservation FAR transfers citywide (instead of current two-mile maximum
distance).
- Modify the commercial/mixed use zones parking standards to require 1 space for every 2 units
for larger sites outside frequent transit buffers.
- In the CM2 and CM3 zones, change the step-down height across local service streets from single
dwelling zones to 45 feet (instead of 35 feet). Also, eliminate requirements for height step
downs in the CM3 zone in locations adjacent to the RM2 zone.
- In the Inner Pattern Area, allow for zero setbacks from property lines abutting properties with
multi-dwelling zoning along Civic and Neighborhood corridors.
Recommended Draft to City Council
City Council held public hearings on the Better Housing by Design Recommended Draft on October 2 and
November 6 of 2019. City Council deliberated and voted on amendments to the Recommended Draft on
November 21, 2019. The amendments passed by City Council are incorporated into the Better Housing
by Design As Adopted by City Council report. City Council is scheduled to make a final decision on the
Better Housing by Design provisions on December 18, 2019, with the effective date for the new
regulations and map amendments scheduled for March 1, 2020.
Amendments passed by City Council and incorporated into the As Adopted report include:
 Amendments to the Deeper Housing Affordability Bonus to provide affordable ownership housing
options for households earning up to 80 percent of area median income.
 Expanded exemptions from minimum parking requirements for projects providing affordable units
in multi-dwelling and mixed-use zones citywide.
 Limitations on the use of development bonuses or FAR transfers on sites where a historic building
has been demolished in the multi-dwelling and mixed-use zones.
 Exemption for indoor common areas, such as community or recreation rooms, from FAR calculations
in both the multi-dwelling and mixed-use zones.
 Allowances for FAR to be transferred between sites in the multi-dwelling and mixed-use zones to
facilitate transfers from sites preserving historic buildings, existing affordable housing or large trees.

Page 16 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report December 2, 2019

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report Page 17
Section 4:  Proposal and Analysis
This section summarizes major Zoning Code and Zoning Map amendments proposed by the Better
Housing by Design project. This section briefly describes each proposal and provides an explanation of
the problems and policy issues the proposal is intended to help address. The proposed regulatory
changes are intended to better implement Comprehensive Plan policies and to improve development
outcomes in the multi-dwelling zones.
Following an overview of the proposed framework of multi-dwelling zones and Zoning Map
amendments, the Zoning Code proposals in this section are organized by the following major topics and
implementing approaches:
Diverse Housing Options and Affordability to meet diverse housing needs.
1. Regulate by building scale instead of unit density.
2. Prioritize affordable housing by increasing inclusionary housing development
bonuses and through a family housing bonus.
3. Promote physically-accessible housing though a visitable units bonus.
4. Provide incentives for preserving trees and existing affordable housing and for
seismic upgrades to historic buildings through transfers of development rights.
5. Allow small-scale commercial uses on major corridors and daycares.

Outdoor spaces and green elements that support human and
environmental health.
6. Require residential outdoor areas in high density zones.
7. Require shared common areas for large sites.
8. Allow alternatives to conventional landscaping.
9. Limit large surface parking lots and asphalt paving.
10. Reduce parking requirements, especially on small sites.

Building design and scale that contributes to pedestrian-friendly streets
and relates to context.
11. Limit front garages and parking along street frontages.
12. Require building entrances to be oriented to streets or to courtyards.
13. Require front setbacks that reflect neighborhood patterns and provide privacy.
14. Simplify side setback regulations to reduce barriers to compact development.
15. Require building height transitions to single-dwelling zones.
16. Require large building facades to be divided into smaller components.
17. Provide design options that support urban development along major corridors.

East Portland standards and street connections that respond to the area’s
distinct characteristics and needs.
18. Continue East Portland mid-block open areas through requirements for deep
rear setbacks.
19. Require street frontages wide enough for quality site design and to provide
space for new street connections in East Portland centers.
20. Calculate development allowances prior to street dedication to facilitate street
connections.
Page 18 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report December 2, 2019
New Zoning Framework
The Better Housing by Design proposals include new names for the multi-dwelling zones to reflect
proposed changes to the zones. The most significant change from current regulations is a proposal to
move from regulating development intensity by unit density to an approach that regulates by building
scale – primarily floor area ratios [FAR] in combination with building height limits and other
development standards. FAR is the relationship of allowed building floor area to the size of the site – an
FAR of 1 to 1 means that 10,000 square feet of building floor area is allowed on a site that is 10,000
square feet in area. This change primarily affects the smaller-scale zones (R3, R2, R1) and will bring
consistency with the FAR-based approach already used in the other multi-dwelling zones and in the
commercial/mixed use zones. See pages 28 – 29 regarding the proposed scale-based approach.
The current zone names for the smaller scale zones are based on unit density (e.g., R2 – “Residential
2,000” corresponds to a maximum density of 1 unit per 2,000 sq. ft. of site area), which will be less
relevant with the proposal to regulate by development scale/FAR. The new approach uses zone names
that are consistent with the naming convention used for the commercial/mixed use zones, in which
larger zone name numbers correspond to allowances for larger-scale development.  The new approach
also divides the current RH zone into two separate zones (RM3 and RM4) that reflect the different FARs
and development standards that apply within the RH zone (which includes two separate levels of FAR:  2
to 1 and 4 to 1).  The proposed zones and their general characteristics and locations are as follows:
The RM1 zone, which combines the former R3 and R2 zones, is a low-scale zone that provides a
transition to single-dwelling residential areas, often located at the edges of centers or along
neighborhood corridors, or other areas intended to provide continuity with the scale of established
residential areas.
The RM2 zone, formerly the R1 zone, is a medium-scale zone applied in and around a variety of centers
and corridors and has similar allowed building height (up to four stories) as the predominant
commercial/mixed use zones in these areas. Proposals allow for additional building coverage (up to 70
percent) for properties adjacent to civic or neighborhood corridors.
The RM3 zone, formerly the RH zone (2 to 1 FAR), is a high density, mid-rise zone applied in locations
close to the Central City and in centers and major corridors, and includes requirements for front
landscaping to integrate with established residential neighborhoods.
The RM4 zone, formerly RH zoning mapped for an FAR of 4 to 1, is an intensely urban, mid- to high-rise
zone applied in locations close to the Central City and in centers and major corridors. In historic and
conservation districts, the base FAR is 3 to 1 (bonus FAR is 4.5 to 1).
The RX zone is the most intensely urban residential zone and is applied within the Central City and the
Gateway Regional Center.
The RMP zone is applied to manufactured dwelling parks. No changes are proposed to the names or
major standards of the RX and RMP zones (not shown on Proposed Multi-Dwelling Zones table).
The new zones continue most of the current zones’ basic development parameters, such as building
height, coverage, and landscaping (see page 55 for a comparison of current and proposed development
standards). The most fundamental changes are the new FAR approach for the smaller-scale zones and
the merging of the R3 and R2 zones into the new RM1 zone (see page 21). Another significant change
involves refinements to the additional scale (FAR) allowed through development bonuses for projects
that provide affordable housing, family-sized units (three bedrooms), visitable units, or through
transfers of development rights.
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report Page 19
Summary of the Proposed Multi-Dwelling Zones
Notes on Base and Bonus FAR
 The base FARs represent the maximum FAR that projects could achieve “by right” (staff anticipate that the
majority of smaller projects will be built within the base FAR). The base FAR limits do not allow for the full
building height and site coverage to be utilized. This allows for additional scale to be provided through FAR
bonuses and density transfers for projects that provide affordable housing or other community benefits.
 The bonus FARs are equivalent to a 50 percent increase beyond the base FAR.  They can be achieved by
projects providing affordable units, either voluntarily or through mandatory inclusionary housing (required for
buildings with 20 or more units – see page 31).  For projects with fewer than 20 units, this bonus can also be
achieved through transfers of development rights from sites where historic resources, trees, or existing
affordable housing are being preserved; or can be achieved in part by bonuses for moderate income family-
sized units and for visitable units (see pages 30 - 35).
 The special bonus for deeper housing affordability will be available to projects with at least 50 percent of
units generally affordable to those earning no more than 60 percent of MFI (see page 31). Besides the larger
amount of bonus FAR, projects will be eligible for 10 feet of additional height and an additional 10 percent of
site coverage. Staff anticipate this bonus will primarily be used by affordable housing developers.
Page 20 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report December 2, 2019
Zoning Map Amendments:  New Base Zones
This map shows amendments to the Zoning Map based on the proposed zoning framework, including
the new zone names. The map changes  primarily involve areas that already have multi-dwelling zoning.
There are no significant expansions to where multi-dwelling zones are mapped (with the exception of a
small number of properties where multi-dwelling zoning is being applied, in part to support historic
preservation objectives). Proposed zoning assigns the new zoning that most closely matches existing
zoning (with some exceptions in historic districts to the assignment of the RM3 and RM4 zoning that
replaces the RH zone, see pages 25-26).
The Zoning Map changes and the new zoning framework also require corresponding amendments to the
Comprehensive Plan and Map (see page 24). No changes are proposed to the mapping of the RX and
RMP zones.
See the online Map App ( www.Portlandmaps.com/bps/mapapp ) and select Better Housing by Design
to view how the Zoning Map changes will affect individual properties.
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report Page 21
Zoning Map Amendments:  Merging of R3 and R2 Zones
The R3 and R2 zones are being combined into the new RM1 zone for a variety of reasons:
 The R3 and R2 zones allow a similar scale of development and both are intended for development
compatible in scale with single-family housing. The allowed building height for the new zone will be
35 feet, which is the same as the R3 zone and a slight reduction from the 40-foot height allowed in
the R2 zone. 35 feet of building height is sufficient for the two- to three-story scale intended for the
new zone and will allow for a wide range of middle-housing types (such as duplexes, fourplexes, and
courtyard apartments) that historically were located among single-family houses. This height is also
consistent with maximum heights in the R2.5 single-dwelling zone and the CM1 mixed-use zone,
which are similarly intended to be compatible with the scale of single-dwelling residential
neighborhoods.
 Other development standards – such as building
coverage, setbacks, outdoor area and landscaping –
vary little between the two zones (see box).
 The R3 zone (a remnant of Multnomah County
zoning) applies in a relatively small amount of area
(517 acres out of the 5,160 acres of multi-dwelling
zoning), primarily in East Portland and East
Hayden Island.
 The R3 zone has produced only a small amount of
new residential units over the past 10 years. 180
units were built in that zone during this period,
compared to the total amount of 8,730 units built
in all of the multi-dwelling zones.
 The R3 zone, as currently regulated, allows less
density than the R2.5 single-dwelling zone. The R3
zone currently allows up to one unit per 3,000
square feet of site area, while the R2.5 zone allows one unit per 2,500 square feet of site area. This
means that on a 5,000-square foot lot, the R3 zone allows only one unit, while the R2.5 zone allows
two units on the same size lot. This lesser density for the R3 zone compared to single-dwelling zones
will be increased by the Residential Infill Project, which proposes new regulations that allow four
units on a 5,000-square foot lot in the R5 and R2.5 single-dwelling zones.
 R3 zoning in East Portland is often located along Civic Corridors (such as SE Stark, SE Division, and
122nd Avenue), identified by the Comprehensive Plan as areas for higher-density housing.
 As part of the shift to a scale/FAR-based approach, staff considered an FAR of .75 to 1 for the R3
zone. Code modeling (see Appendix B) showed little difference in development scale with the 1 to 1
FAR proposed for the R2 zone. This .75 to 1 FAR is also less than the FARs for multi-unit
developments proposed for the R2.5 single-dwelling zone by the Residential Infill Project.
 Recent development in the R3 zone has been similar to what has been built in the R2 zone, with the
majority of development in both zones consisting of clusters of detached houses, townhouses,
duplexes, and small apartment buildings.

Map of
R3 zoning
Page 22 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report December 2, 2019
Zoning Map Amendments:  Design Overlay Zone Expansion
The Better Housing by Design project proposes expanding the design (“d”) overlay zone to apply to all
RH zoning (new RM3 and RM4 zones). The majority (84 percent) of the RH zone is already within the
design overlay or in historic districts (such the Alphabet Historic District in Northwest Portland). As part
of the d-overlay expansion, the d-overlay will be applied to properties with RM3 and RM4 zoning located
in historic and conservation districts, although properties in these districts will continue to be subject to
historic resources review instead of design review.
Portland applies the design overlay to zones that allow large-scale development. This helps manage the
design of significant amounts of change and to ensure that high-profile, larger-scale development is well
designed. Most RH zoning is mapped in locations close to the Central City, in centers, or near light rail
stations, places intended for significant housing density. The RH (RM3 and RM4) zoning allows buildings
65 to 100 feet tall, which matches or exceeds scale allowed in mixed use zones (EX and CM3) where the
design overlay is always applied. The RM3 and RM4 zones will be among the zones where the d-overlay
is always applied (along with the EX, RX, CX and CM3 zones). For most development outside the Central
City, the design overlay zone provides projects with options to either go through a discretionary design
review process or to use clear and objective design standards.
This map shows areas where the design overlay zone is proposed for expansion (dark red), as well as areas with RH
zoning that are already within the design overlay (light shading).
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report Page 23
Zoning Map Amendments:  A-Overlay Removal
The Alternative Design Density (a) overlay zone provides opportunities for additional housing density. In
the multi-dwelling zones where it applies, the a-overlay zone allows for bonus density in exchange for
design review, as well as corner triplexes and flag lots in the R2 zone for projects meeting design
standards.
The a-overlay zone is proposed to be removed from all multi-dwelling zones because the proposed base
zone changes provide much of the flexibility for additional housing units provided by this overlay zone.
As part of the Better Housing by Design proposals, the a-overlay zone is also proposed to be removed
from all non-residential zones, where the a-overlay is occasionally mapped but provides no regulatory
allowances. Since the Residential Infill Project is proposing to remove the a-overlay from the single-
dwelling zones, there will be no remaining a-overlay zoning on the Zoning Map.

Page 24 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report December 2, 2019
Comprehensive Plan Map:  Amendments
The As Amended report includes changes to Comprehensive Plan land use designations and the
Comprehensive Plan Map to correspond to the proposed new multi-dwelling zones and the shift to
regulating development intensity by FAR (instead of unit density). The new Comprehensive Plan multi-
dwelling designations use location-related names, similar to the approach used for the mixed use
designations (See Volume 2 for complete Comprehensive Plan amendments). The Comprehensive Plan
Map amendments assign to each property the new designation that corresponds to existing
designations (no change to Central Residential or Manufactured Dwelling Park designations).
Current Comp Plan Name (and zone) New Comp Plan Name Corresponding New Zones
Multi-Dwelling – 3,000  (R3)
Multi-Dwelling – 2,000  (R2)
Multi-Dwelling – Neighborhood RM1
Multi-Dwelling – 1,000  (R1) Multi-Dwelling – Corridor RM2
High-Density Multi-Dwelling  (RH) Multi-Dwelling – Urban Center RM3, RM4
Central Residential Central Residential RX  (no change)
Manufactured Dwelling Park Manufactured Dwelling Park RMP  (no change)
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report Page 25
Historic Districts:  Zoning Map and Zoning Code Amendments
Amendments to the Zoning Map generally assign the new zoning that most closely matches existing
zoning. The exception to this involves the assignment in historic districts of the new high-density RM3
and RM4 zones, which replace the current RH zone. The historic districts where the majority of the
current RH zoning (and future RM3 and RM4 zoning) is located are the Alphabet Historic District in
Northwest Portland and the King’s Hill Historic District, just west of the Central City. Amendments
address the fact that current zoning allows building scale that is substantially larger than historic
buildings in some parts of these districts, while disallowing new buildings to be as large as historic
buildings in other areas. The Comprehensive Plan includes policies that call for zoning that is responsive
to the characteristics of historic districts, while other policies prioritize close-in locations for higher-
density housing, including affordable housing.
Amendments to the Zoning Map and development standards in high-density multi-dwelling zones in
historic districts balance historic preservation objectives with providing options that address the need
for affordable housing. The amendments calibrate development allowances to the scale of historic
districts, while providing additional development bonuses for projects that include affordable housing.
The amendments:
1. Expand development bonuses for affordable housing in historic districts in both the multi-dwelling
and mixed use zones. Currently, development bonuses for affordable housing are not provided in
mixed use zones in historic districts, even when inclusionary housing is mandatory for larger
projects. The amendments make affordable housing bonuses available in historic and conservation
districts in both the multi-dwelling and mixed use zones. See also pages 19, 30-31, and 54.
2. Change the Zoning Map in the Alphabet and King’s Hill historic districts so that the allowed
building scale relates to the scale of larger historic buildings. In some locations the recommended
zoning is larger in scale than existing zoning, while in other locations the proposed zoning is smaller
in scale. All properties affected by these zone changes currently have RH zoning, but are being
assigned the new RM3 and RM4 zones based on the scale of the historic context. See also next page.
3. Reduce the base FAR (regulating building scale) in the highest density multi-dwelling zone (RM4)
when located in historic districts, from a current base FAR of 4 to 1 to instead provide a base FAR of
3 to 1. This is balanced by allowances for buildings to achieve a bonus FAR of 4.5 to 1, available to
projects providing affordable housing units. This means that larger buildings subject to mandatory
inclusionary housing requirements will be able to be as large as currently allowed by the base FAR.
Projects in which at least half of units are affordable at 60 percent of median family income can be
even larger than allowed by the standard bonus (up to an FAR of 6 to 1). See also next page.
4. Provide an incentive for seismic upgrades to historic buildings.
Amendments allow additional building scale (FAR) to be transferred to
other projects from sites with historic structures in conjunction with
seismic upgrades, to help defray the costs of these upgrades. See also
pages 34-35.

Historic buildings in the Alphabet Historic District, west of NW
21st, which are twice the scale allowed by their current RH
zoning (base FAR of 2 to 1). The RM4 zoning (base FAR of 3 to
1 in historic districts) proposed for this area will allow new
development to be similar in scale when affordable units are
provided through inclusionary housing regulations.
Page 26 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report December 2, 2019
Historic Districts:  Zoning Map and Zoning Code Amendments
(continued)

Zoning Map Changes: Alphabet and King’s Hill historic districts
Alphabet Historic District: the proposed zoning provides a north-south split between the larger-scale RM4 zoning to the south and the
smaller-scale RM3 zoning to the north, instead of the east-west split of the current RH zoning. This change is more reflective of the
historic development scale than existing zoning, as larger historic buildings are concentrated in southern portions of the district.
King’s Hill Historic District: the proposed zoning switches the mapping of smaller scale (RM3) and larger-scale (RM4) zoning in and
around southern portions of the district to be more responsive to development patterns. In this area, small properties in the historic
district with mostly low-scale historic buildings (2-3 stories) are being assigned the smaller scale RM3 zone, while properties just to the
east in the Central City that have larger buildings are being assigned RM4 zoning (this also aligns with the FAR of 4 to 1 assigned to this
area in the Central City Plan District).
Right. Range of proposed base and bonus FARs in the RM3 and
RM4 zones, highlighting the differing RM4 FAR allowances in
historic districts (current zone is RH for all).
Below. In the RM4 zone in historic districts, base and bonus FARs
of 3:1 and 4.5 to 1 will match the range of larger historic multi-
dwelling buildings in historic districts, such as these examples in
the Alphabet and King’s Hill historic districts. Larger scale will be
allowed through the deeper affordability bonus for buildings in
which at least half of units are affordable.
Current zoning
Proposed
zoning
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report Page 27
Amendments to Zoning Code Regulations
The proposals for Zoning Code amendments on the following pages are organized as follows:
 Topic:  The major topic associated with the proposals (from topics listed on page 17).
 Proposals:  Brief listing of the proposals.
 Issues Addressed:  Issues and polices being addressed by the proposals.
 Proposal Approach:  Information on the proposed regulatory approach and intended outcomes.
Note regarding zone names.  Text about the current zones uses current zone names. Text regarding the
proposals uses the new zone names, accompanied by the corresponding current zone names in
parentheses – such as RM1 (R2/R3).

Relationship to Volume 2 and Volume 3
The Staff Report proposal descriptions on the following pages are summaries and do not include the full
Zoning Code language and regulatory details. Volume 2 includes the full regulatory details of these and
other code amendments, along with staff commentary.  For the convenience of reviewers, Volume 2
includes an index that cross references the proposals in the Staff Report and the Volume 2 code
sections, indicating the page numbers where the specific Zoning Code text and commentary can be
found.
Volume 3 includes additional Zoning Code amendments needed to provide consistency among similar
regulations located in different Zoning Code chapters, including amendments to the commercial/mixed
use zones. Volume 3 also includes amendments to plan district regulations made redundant by the
proposed multi-dwelling regulations and updates references to the names of multi-dwelling zones.

Other Documents with Information Related to the Zoning Code Amendments
Appendix B: Code Modeling – Prototypes
This document includes code modeling of the physical outcomes of the draft base and bonus FARs and
other development standards for each of the multi-dwelling zones. This modeling indicates that the base
and bonus FARs can be achieved within the parameters set by other proposed development standards,
such as maximum building heights, site coverage limits, setbacks, and outdoor space and landscaping
requirements.
Appendix C: Code Modeling – Feasibility Analysis
This document summarizes an economic analysis of the economic feasibility of the proposed base and
bonus FARs. It includes two parts, the second of which includes additional prototypes with more units
and no parking.
Appendix F: Displacement Risk Analysis
This analysis investigates the extent to which the proposed zoning changes might increase the
likelihood of the redevelopment of existing multi-dwelling housing.

Page 28 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report December 2, 2019
Diverse Housing Options and Affordability

Proposals
1. Regulate by building scale/FAR instead of unit density – RM1 and RM2 zones.

Issues Addressed
Comprehensive Plan policies call for a broad
range of housing options, with more intense
development in centers and corridors.
Low-rise multi-dwelling zones, such as the R2
zone, provide transitions in scale between
higher-density areas and single-family
residential areas. Historically, low-rise multi-
dwelling areas provided a diversity of “middle
housing” types, such as duplexes, fourplexes,
townhouses and courtyard apartments. These
two- to three-story housing types provide
housing density at a scale not much taller than
single-family houses. Many of these, however,
could not be built today in Portland’s most
common multi-dwelling zone, R2, because
they exceed unit density limits. Other issues in
the medium-density zones (R3, R2 and R1)
include:
 Density-based regulations often result in large townhouse-type units whose multiple levels and
stairs are not accessible to people with mobility limitations.
 The lack of housing unit variety also limits the range of affordability levels.
 In the R1 zone, often located along transit corridors and allowing four-story buildings, density
regulations similarly limit housing options, even in transit-rich locations.
R1 zone development
Old and new buildings along
transit corridors. Similar
scale, but the older
apartments accommodate
more households. The 2015
example was built to the
maximum allowed density of
the R1 zone.
1920s – 34 units on a 10,000 square-foot site 2015– 18 units on an 18,000 square-foot site
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report Page 29
Proposal Approach
1. Regulate by building scale/FAR instead of unit density – RM1 and RM2 zones.

RM1 (R2/R3)
Current approach (R2):
 40-foot height limit.
 Density limited to one unit per 2,000
square feet of site area (two units on a
5,000-square foot site).
 Often results in large townhouse units.

Proposed approach:
 Reduce allowed height to 35 feet.
 Provide flexibility for what happens
inside the allowed building scale (FAR
of 1 to 1). Graphics show 2-4 units, but
more units would also be allowed
within the same building scale.

RM2 (R1)
Current approach:
 45-foot height limit.
 Density limited to one unit per 1,000 square
feet of site area.
 Often results in townhouse units.
Proposed approach:
 45-foot height limit (unchanged)
 Provide flexibility for what happens inside the
building (FAR of 1.5 to 1).

The RM3 and RM4 zones (current RH) already are regulated by FAR, rather than by unit density. No
change to the corresponding base FARs of the RH zone (2 to 1 or 4 to 1) is proposed, except in historic
districts, where the base FAR will be 3 to 1 instead of the current RH zone FAR of 4 to 1 (see pages 25-
26).
The RM1-RM4 zones are also provided with bonus FAR allowances (see next pages and page 19).
The RMP zone, applied to manufactured dwelling parks, will be the only multi-dwelling zone not
regulated by FAR. Unit density remains a more practical way of regulating the types of detached
structures found in manufactured dwelling parks.

The proposal for the R2 (new RM1)
zone would allow greater flexibility
within a smaller building envelope.
This would create options for more
and different types of housing units.
Page 30 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report December 2, 2019
Diverse Housing Options and Affordability

Proposals
2. Prioritize affordable housing by increasing inclusionary housing development bonuses and
through a family housing bonus.
A. Increase the inclusionary housing development bonus to 50 percent beyond the base FAR.
B. Provide a higher-level of FAR bonus for projects providing deeper housing affordability.
C. Provide an FAR bonus of 25 percent for projects with three-bedroom units.

Issues Addressed
Comprehensive Plan policies call for a diverse supply of affordable housing that can accommodate the
housing needs of a broad range of households and income ranges, but there is currently a shortage of
housing affordable to low- and moderate-income households. In Better Housing by Design project
community discussions, participants identified affordable housing as the greatest priority for
development bonuses.
Currently, through a system of development bonuses, buildings can be larger or include more units if
they provide specific amenities or affordable units (see table below). The existing amenity bonuses can
be combined to provide up to 50 percent more development than usually allowed. Projects do not have
to include any affordable housing to achieve this increase.
In the multi-dwelling zones, the amount of development bonus for projects providing affordable units
through the new inclusionary housing regulations is currently limited to 25 percent (compared to more
than 60 percent in the mixed use zones). This limits the ability to provide an attractive incentive for
affordable housing, especially for buildings with fewer than 20 units that are not required to provide
affordable units. Mandatory inclusionary housing applies to buildings with 20 or more units and requires
a minimum of 20 percent of units to be affordable to households earning no more than 80 percent of
median family income (MFI).
Existing Development Bonuses Proposed Approach
Affordable housing
(inclusionary housing)
Prioritize by increasing amount of development bonus to 50
percent additional FAR.
Three bedroom units Continue, in order to provide an incentive for family-sized units.
Outdoor recreation facilities Remove as development bonuses, but address through new
requirements for shared outdoor spaces (see pages 38 - 39). Play areas for children
Large outdoor areas
Storage areas Remove as development bonuses.
(In stakeholder discussions, community members felt these were
lesser priorities than other outcomes, especially affordable housing) Sound insulation
Crime prevention
Solar water heating
Tree preservation Remove as a development bonus, but address through a new
transfer of development rights allowance for tree preservation (see
pages 34 - 35).

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report Page 31
Proposal Approach
2A.  Increase the inclusionary housing development bonus to 50 percent beyond the base FAR.
This amount of FAR increase will be available to projects providing affordable housing units through
either voluntary or mandatory inclusionary housing provisions. The 50 percent bonus brings greater
consistency with the inclusionary housing bonus provided in the mixed use zones and will increase the
feasibility of projects that include affordable housing. Projects using this bonus will need to meet
inclusionary housing requirements for 20 percent of units to be affordable to those earning no more
than 80 percent of MFI, or 10 percent of units affordable at 60 percent of MFI (lower unit percentages
apply through December 2020). The 50 percent increase in FAR for qualifying projects will be available in
all the multi-dwelling zones and is illustrated on page 19 of this report.
2B.  Provide a higher-level of development bonus for projects providing deeper housing affordability.
This new voluntary provision will provide a development bonus allowing 100 percent additional FAR. It
will also allow 10 feet of additional height and an additional 10 percent of building coverage for
qualifying projects (see illustrations on page 19). To qualify, projects will generally need to have at least
50 percent of on-site units affordable to households earning no more than 60 percent of MFI, a
significantly greater amount and level of affordability than required by inclusionary housing. In
conjunction with Title 30 (Affordable Housing) provisions, this bonus also provides an affordable home
ownership option for projects in which at least half of the units are ownership units affordable to
households earning no more than 80 percent of MFI.
Staff anticipate that this bonus will primarily be used by affordable housing developers, rather than the
larger number of profit-dependent development projects. The minimum required percentage of 50
percent will allow developments to include some market-rate units to help offset the costs of the
affordable units and allow for income diversity. Both this bonus and the standard inclusionary housing
bonus will involve the Housing Bureau in administration and will require units to remain affordable for a
term of 99 years for rental units (10 years for ownership units).
2C.  Provide a development bonus of 25 percent for projects with three-bedroom units.
This development bonus is a refinement of the existing bonus for three-bedroom units. It will provide 25
percent additional FAR for projects in which at least 50 percent of units have three bedrooms and are
affordable to households earning no more than 100 percent of MFI. This affordability level is intended to
encourage moderate-income family housing, a segment of the housing spectrum not addressed by the
other affordable housing development bonuses. The existing three-bedroom bonus has no income
restrictions, which does not address the current shortage of family-sized units affordable to low- and
moderate-income households, especially in areas close to services.
The term of affordability for this bonus will be for a shorter period than the other bonuses (minimum of
10 years). This responds to affordable housing developers’ concerns that this bonus will not work for
their ownership housing projects if it is for permanent or long-term affordability. A goal of some
affordable ownership housing programs is to provide opportunities for minority and lower-income
households to gain equity through homeownership. The Housing Bureau will be involved in certifying
projects as qualifying for this development bonus.
Other existing development bonuses are being discontinued to prioritize affordable housing as a
development outcome. Also, the proposal to regulate development intensity by FAR provides much of
the density flexibility that was offered by the amenity bonuses, while the existing development bonuses
for outdoor spaces and tree preservation are being replaced by new proposed approaches (see table on
page 30).
Page 32 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report December 2, 2019
Diverse Housing Options and Affordability

Proposals
3. Promote physically-accessible housing through a visitable units bonus.

Issues Addressed
Comprehensive Plan polies call for fostering a built environment that works for people of all ages and
abilities. Also in support of this, housing policies call for a diverse supply of accessible housing to meet
the needs of older adults and people with disabilities, especially in and around centers and corridors
where residents can live close to transit and services. Increasing the supply of housing that works for
people of all abilities will become increasingly important, given that Metro projects growth by over 100
percent in the numbers of residents aged 65 and older in the Portland area over the next 20 years.
Portland’s multi-dwelling zoning, located as it is in and around centers and corridors, play an important
role in helping to meet these policy objectives for physically-accessible housing. Multifamily buildings
with four or more units, built under the commercial building code, are generally required to provide
some physically accessible or adaptable units when buildings have single-level units or elevators.
However, in the current R2 zone (proposed RM1), which accounts for more than half of Portland’s multi-
dwelling zoning, more than 75 percent of new units built over the past 10 years have been residential
building code structures, such as houses, duplexes, attached houses, and townhouses, for which the
residential building code has no requirements for physically-accessible units.

The visitable units bonus provides incentives for projects with units designed for improved access for people of all abilities.
The bonus provides additional floor area to accommodate the larger spaces needed for accessible design, as well as to help defray
the added costs involved (providing an accessible ramp on a lot raised 3 feet above sidewalk level can cost more than $30,000).
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report Page 33
Proposal Approach
Visitable Units Bonus.  This voluntary bonus will provide 25 percent additional scale (FAR) for projects in
which at least 25 percent of units meet standards for visitable or accessible units.  The level of physical
accessibility for units to qualify for this bonus vary by housing type.
For residential building code types of housing not usually subject to requirements for accessibility, such
as houses, duplexes, attached houses, and townhouses, units would need have the following features to
accommodate people with mobility limitations on the same level as the unit’s entrance:
• No step, barrier free access to the unit.
• A bathroom with a sink and toilet (with wall reinforcement for grab bars).
• Living area of at least 200 square feet.
• Doorway clearances of 31¾ inches.
• Lighting controls at an accessible level (no higher than 4 feet).
(The standards are for Type C visitable units in ICC A117.1)
Single-level units in multi-dwelling structures (typically built under the commercial building code)
would need to meet building code standards for Type A units to qualify for this bonus. Standards for
Type A units require a higher level of accessibility than the Type B units that the building code mandates
for multifamily buildings with single-level units. Type B unit standards accommodate access for people
with mobility limitations but do not have requirements for larger clearances that work better for people
using wheelchairs. Standards for Type A units include requirements for a higher-level of accessibility,
with greater clearances and accessibility features to accommodate wheelchair users in bathrooms and
kitchens (the building code only requires 2 percent of units on sites with more than 20 units to be Type
A units).  Linking qualification for this bonus to Type A units provides an incentive for multi-dwelling
projects to include greater numbers of the more accessible Type A units.
Using references to building code standards to qualify for this bonus facilitates efficient implementation,
as it allows Bureau of Development Services building code staff – already familiar with such standards –
to use their expertise to review proposals.

This table summarizes the range of
proposed FAR bonus and transfer
options. Only the inclusionary housing
bonus (for affordable units) would
achieve the full amount of the
standard FAR bonus of a 50 percent
increase. Other bonuses would need to
be combined to achieve this amount.
Also intended to prioritize affordable
housing, the only bonus allowing more
than a 50 percent increase in FAR is
the deeper housing affordability
bonus.
Page 34 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report December 2, 2019
Diverse Housing Options and Affordability

Proposals
4. Provide allowances for unused development capacity to be transferred to other sites from
properties where trees or existing affordable housing are being preserved; and provide increased
transfer allowances for seismic upgrades to historic buildings.

Issues Addressed
Current regulations allow for unused development capacity to be transferred from sites with historic
landmarks to other sites in multi-dwelling zones within two miles. This acts as an incentive for historic
preservation, allowing value to be obtained from the unused development capacity. Current regulations
also allow for density to be transferred to other sites within the same block or across a street, with no
relationship to a specific preservation outcome. This latter option will be discontinued in order to
prioritize preservation of historic resources, trees, and affordable housing.
Besides historic preservation, other types of preservation supported by Comprehensive Plan policies
include preservation of trees and preservation of existing affordable housing. Current multi-dwelling
regulations include a tree preservation development bonus, which allows for additional housing density
on the same site where trees are preserved.  However, this bonus has rarely been used (only twice over
the past 10 years), because it can be difficult to both preserve trees and fit additional units on the same
site.
Tree preservation is a significant concern in East Portland, where Douglas fir groves are a valued part of
the area’s character and are often located on properties with multi-dwelling zoning. While Title 11 of
the City Code requires tree preservation, in the multi-dwelling zones developers often choose to instead
pay into the Tree Planting and Preservation Fund, to avoid the complexity of building around existing
trees, especially with higher-density projects.
There is no existing allowance for development potential to be transferred to another site in exchange
for preserving existing affordable housing units, although the loss of existing affordable housing is a
significant community concern and contributes to displacement of residents.
While there are existing allowances for transferring unused development capacity from sites with
historic resources, there are no allowances targeted toward providing incentives for seismic upgrades to
historic buildings. The need for seismic upgrades to Portland’s many unreinforced masonry buildings
(URMs) has become a critical issue. This is an especially important issue for Portland’s historic resources,
as nearly 600 historic buildings (typically brick or concrete) are URMs and seismic upgrades are costly.
As part of the Central City 2035 zoning code updates, an FAR transfer allowance was adopted for the
Central City to provided allowances for additional FAR to be transferred from sites with historic
buildings, beyond the amount of unutilized FAR, in conjunction with seismic upgrades to these historic
structures. This additional amount of transferable FAR is intended to provide an incentive for seismic
upgrades to historic buildings by helping to defray the costs of these upgrades, but this provision does
not apply outside the Central City.

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report Page 35
Proposal Approach
 Tree preservation. Allow for unused development capacity to be transferred to sites with multi-
dwelling or commercial/mixed use zoning in exchange for preserving large trees (12 inches or more
in diameter). The amount of development potential (floor area) that could be transferred would be
related to the size and number of preserved trees and the allowed density of the site where the
trees are being preserved.
 Affordable housing preservation. Allow for unused development capacity to be transferred to sites
with multi-dwelling zoning or commercial/mixed use zoning in exchange for preservation of existing
affordable housing units. The existing affordable housing units would need to remain affordable for
households earning no more than 60 percent of MFI. The Housing Bureau will be involved in
certifying compliance (the details of the term of affordability will be determined by the Housing
Bureau, but will be for a minimum of 30 years).
 Historic preservation. Expand eligibility for transfers of development rights from individual historic
landmarks to also apply to sites that are contributing resources in Historic or Conservation districts
(consistent with the approach in the commercial/mixed use zones).
 Seismic upgrades to historic buildings. Allow an additional amount of development scale (beyond
the amount of unused development capacity), equivalent to 50 percent of the base FAR, to be
transferred from sites with historic resources in conjunction with seismic upgrades (will apply in
both the multi-dwelling and mixed use zones).
All these options will allow for FAR to be transferred to a receiving site with multi-dwelling or
commercial/mixed use zoning citywide (except the Central City – which has separate provisions for FAR
transfers). This is a change from existing regulations for FAR transfers, which are currently limited to a
two-mile transfer distance and do not allow for transfers between sites in the multi-dwelling and
commercial/mixed use zones. This is being done to increase the feasibility of FAR transfers by increasing
the numbers of potential receiving sites. Staff anticipate that FAR transfers will only be used by relatively
small projects, since buildings with 20 or more units qualify for inclusionary housing development
bonuses and will not be able to receive additional FAR from transfers.

Maximum increase from transfers and development bonuses.
The proposals will limit the total amount of FAR that can be added to a site, from both transfers and
from development bonuses, to 50 percent beyond the base FAR. An exception is provided for projects
using the special bonus for deeper housing affordability, which could receive up to a 100 percent
increase in FAR.
The amendments allow for the use of development
bonuses and FAR transfers on sites located in Historic and
Conservation districts in both the multi-dwelling and
commercial/mixed use zones, but place limits on the use
of bonuses and FAR transfers on sites where a historic
building has been demolished.

Historic house and Douglas fir trees in East Portland.
Page 36 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report December 2, 2019
Diverse Housing Options and Affordability

Proposals
5. Allow small-scale commercial uses adjacent to Civic or Neighborhood corridors and allow daycare
uses in all locations.

Issues Addressed
Currently, commercial uses are prohibited in most multi-dwelling zones, and are conditional uses
(subject to a discretionary review process) near light rail stations in the RH zone. Along busy corridors,
allowing limited ground-floor commercial uses could help address the negative impacts from traffic to
residents of housing, such as in the multi-dwelling zones located along East Portland’s multi-lane
corridors. In these locations, the livability of ground-level residential living spaces located along busy
street frontages is compromised by traffic noise and privacy impacts. Allowances for small commercial
uses in these locations would provide opportunities for ground-level businesses that could benefit from
being located along busy, high-visibility street frontages.
These allowances would also allow more opportunities for neighborhood commercial services and
daycare facilities in areas that lack walkable access to services and that could benefit from additional
small businesses and local services, such as East Portland. Allowances for small commercial uses would
also provide opportunities for “live-work” arrangements, which can support household prosperity by
allowing additional opportunities for home-based businesses.

This proposal would allow small commercial uses in multi-dwelling zones along major corridors, such as outer SE Division (left) and
major streets near light rail stations, such as the 148th Avenue light rail station (right).
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report Page 37
Proposal Approach
5. Allow small-scale commercial uses adjacent to Civic or Neighborhood corridors and allow
daycare uses in all locations.
In the RM1 and RM2 (R3/R2, R1) zones, allow ground floor retail or offices uses up to an FAR of .25 to
1 per site. This will allow up to 2,500 square feet of commercial use floor area on a 10,000-square foot
site. Each commercial use is limited to 1,000 square feet (enough for a small retail space, café, or office).
In the RM3 and RM4 (RH) zones, allow ground floor retail or offices uses up to an FAR of .4 to 1 per
site. This will allow up to 4,000 square feet of floor area on a 10,000-square foot site. The commercial
use allowances are more generous than for the lower-scale zones to reflect the more intensely urban
character of the RM3 and RM4 zones. Each commercial use is limited to 2,000 square feet.
Projects using these allowances would need to meet the minimum residential unit densities of their
zone, which will prevent purely commercial projects. Exterior commercial activities will not be allowed,
except for outdoor seating. The proposals remove existing conditional use allowances in the RH zone for
commercial uses within 1,000 feet of a transit station in order to prioritize corridors as appropriate
locations for commercial uses (rather than local service streets). However, the proposed allowances will
allow small commercial uses in multi-dwelling zones along corridors near light rail stations (for example,
near the 148th Avenue light rail station in East Portland, the proposal will allow commercial uses in multi-
dwelling zones along 148th Avenue and portions of Burnside).
Allow daycare facilities up to a size of 3,000 square feet in multi-dwelling zones regardless of location
to expand opportunities for this needed service close to residents (larger facilities could be approved
through a conditional use approval process).

Small commercial uses at the ground levels of
rowhouses along busy corridors.
Civic and Neighborhood corridors where the allowances for small commercial uses would
apply in multi-dwelling zones.
Page 38 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report December 2, 2019
Outdoor Spaces and Green Elements

Proposals
6. Require 48 square feet of outdoor area per unit (36
square feet for small sites up to 20,000 square feet) in
the RM3 and RM4 (RH) zones.
7. Require shared common areas, such as courtyards, for
large sites more than 20,000 square feet.

Issues Addressed
Comprehensive Plan policies call for housing to include
features that support healthy living, such as usable outdoor
spaces for recreation, gardening and other activities.
Currently, most of the multi-dwelling zones require outdoor
space (48 square feet per unit), which can be private spaces
or combined into larger shared spaces, such as courtyards.

However, the high-density residential zone (RH) requires no
outdoor spaces. In some situations, such as in East Portland
where the RH zone is located close to light rail stations and
where many families live, parking lots are the only places for
children to play.

Shared common areas. Apartment residents have identified the need for larger outdoor areas for
activities such as children’s play and growing food, which are difficult to fit into private outdoor spaces
such as balconies. Currently, shared common areas that are large enough to provide these opportunities
are not required and often not provided with new multi-dwelling development.
Apartments residents have also
identified the need for indoor
community spaces, which can offer
activity space during poor weather,
for gatherings, or after school study.
There are no existing allowances for
indoor community spaces to count
toward requirements related to
recreational spaces or common
areas.

Types of residential outdoor areas
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report Page 39
Proposal Approach
6. Require 48 square feet of outdoor area per unit (36 square
feet for small sites up to 20,000 square feet) in the RM3 and
RM4 (RH) zones.
This requirement is consistent with standards for similar development in
mixed-use zones. The smaller required amount for small sites is intended
to be responsive to the complexities of including outdoor spaces with
high-density development on compact sites. The outdoor space can be in
the form of private outdoor areas or combined into shared common
areas, such as courtyards or play areas.

Indoor community facilities. Amendments also allow indoor community
spaces, such as indoor recreation facilities or community rooms, to be
used to meet outdoor area requirements in all the multi-dwelling zones.

7. Require shared common areas, such as courtyards, for
large sites more than 20,000 square feet.
This requirement will apply to all the multi-dwelling zones, except
for RMP and RX (this zone is only located in the Central City and
Gateway and is subject to special plan district regulations). The
proposal will require common areas equivalent in size to 10 percent
of total site area, with a minimum width of 20 feet to ensure they
are a usable size. The required common area will count toward
meeting the per-unit outdoor space requirements.
This requirement will only apply to larger sites, which can more
easily accommodate shared outdoor area than can smaller sites.
The proposal provides flexibility by allowing the required common
area to be at ground level or in the form of a raised courtyard or
shared rooftop deck.  Up to half of the required common area may
also be in the form of indoor common areas. An exemption is
provided for street-oriented housing types, such as townhouses,
when larger individual outdoor space (at least 200 square feet) is
provided for each unit.
Related proposals change maximum setback standards to provide
flexibility for courtyards open to the street, which are prevented in
some situations by requirements for 100 percent of building
frontages to be located close to the street.

Examples of private and shared outdoor
areas included in development typical
of the RH zone.
Historic and contemporary examples of
multi-dwelling housing with courtyards that
are approximately 10 percent of site area.
Page 40 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report December 2, 2019
Outdoor Spaces and Green Elements

Proposals
8. Allow alternatives to conventional landscaping.
9. Limit large surface parking lots and asphalt paving.
10. Reduce parking requirements, especially on small sites.

Issues Addressed
Comprehensive Plan policies call for integrating green elements,
such as eco roofs and vegetated stormwater facilities, into the
urban environment. Policies also call for limiting impervious
surfaces (e.g., concrete, asphalt paving) and reducing urban heat
island effects, which can be caused by large amounts of paved
surfaces.

Lack of allowances for innovative green site design. Current
regulations require multi-dwelling development to include
landscaped areas. However, these regulations do not allow many
innovative types of green features to count toward meeting
required landscaping, which must be at ground level. For
instance, eco roofs, raised landscaped courtyards and raised
stormwater planters do not meet these requirements.

Large paved areas and urban heat islands. Due to climate change,
Portland is expected to experience hotter, drier summers with more
high-heat days. This can result in heat-related health problems,
especially in locations with large amounts of pavement, which can
cause urban heat islands. Modeling of urban heat island effects
indicates that development with large amounts of asphalt paving can
be more than five degrees hotter than comparable development with
more landscaping (see Concept Report Appendices). This modeling
shows that other surfaces with higher levels of reflectivity, such as
concrete, also increase temperatures, but to a lesser amount
(modeling showed that concrete increased temperature by
approximately three degrees).
While the multi-dwelling zones limit the amount of building coverage,
there is not a similar limit on the amount of paved surfaces, such as
parking lots. Multi-dwelling development with large amounts of
surface parking are a common development type in East Portland.

Contributing to the large amounts of surface parking in some areas
is that 40 percent of multi-dwelling zoning is outside the 500-foot
distance from frequent transit that qualifies projects for reduced
parking requirements, and must provide at least one parking space
for each unit. At higher densities, this results in large amounts of
paving when provided in the form of surface parking (which is less costly than structured parking). This
parking makes it difficult to include other features, such as outdoor area for residents.
Building with eco roof and raised courtyard
Apartment development in East Portland
providing parking at the current required ratio
of one space for each unit, resulting in 37
percent of the site paved for parking.
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report Page 41
Proposal Approach
8. Allow alternatives to conventional landscaping.
Amendments allow eco roofs, raised courtyards and raised
stormwater planters to be used to meet up to 50 percent of
required landscaping. The other 50 percent of required
landscaping would need to be at ground level to better
accommodate required trees.

9. Limit large surface parking lots and asphalt paving.
Amendments limit surface parking areas to 30 percent of a site.
Because of the greater heat impacts of asphalt, asphalt paving is
limited to 15 percent of total site area. For a project seeking to
maximize the amount of surface vehicle areas and fully utilize the 30
percent coverage, half of this area could be paved with asphalt and
the rest could be paved with concrete, paving blocks, or other
materials. Another option would be to tuck parking under buildings.

10. Reduce parking requirements, especially on small sites.
For small sites (up to 10,000 square feet) do not require parking.
This will facilitate small multi-dwelling structures, such as fourplexes
and courtyard apartments, that can more readily be integrated into
neighborhood patterns when no off-street parking is required
(including parking with multi-dwelling structures on small sites often
results in garages occupying much of the ground level). This will also
allow small-lot develoment, such as attached houses, to not include
off-street parking, facilitating pedestrian-oriented buildings not
dominated by front garages.
For larger sites, reduce the minimum required parking ratio
to 1 parking space per every 2 units. This parking ratio already
applies to the RH (RM3 and RM4) zone, and will now also
apply to the other multi-dwelling zones and to the mixed-use
zones. The existing reduced parking requirements for projects
located close to frequent transit will continue to apply. The
vast majority (95 percent) of properties with multi-dwelling or
mixed-use zoning is within a walkable, quarter-mile distance
of streets with frequent transt service.
Amendments also exempt projects that include affordable
units from minimum parking requirements in both the multi-
dwelling and mixed-use zones citywide to reduce costs and
support the economic feasibility of projects that provide
affordable housing (to qualify for this parking exemption, units must meet the requirements of the
inclusionary housing or deeper housing affordability bonuses).

Recent five-plex project with no off-street parking,
allowing it to fit into the neighborhood context.
Site with 30 percent of area used for surface
parking. The hatched area shows the
maximum 15 percent of site area that could
be paved with asphalt.
Page 42 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report December 2, 2019
Building Design and Scale

Proposals
11. Limit front garages and parking along street frontages.
a. Limit front garages and parking structures to 50 percent of building street frontages.
b. Disallow parking from being located between buildings and streets.
12. Require building entrances oriented to streets or to courtyards.

Issues Addressed
Comprehensive Plan policies call for
development to contribute to pedestrian-
friendly street frontages and respond to
neighborhood context. However, current
regulations in the multi-dwelling zones
have few limits on front garages and, in
some cases, no requirements for front
entrances. This can negatively affect the
pedestrian environment of streets.
Existing regulations limit front garages
from occupying more than 50 percent of
the width of detached houses, but provide an exemption that allows houses to always have a 12-foot
wide garage. This means that there is not an effective limit on front garages for the narrow-lot houses
common in some of the multi-dwelling zones. Currently, there are also no limits on the front garages of
attached houses or any multi-dwelling housing types.

Plans, policies, and design guidelines call for street frontages that enhance
neighborhood context.
Front garages are currently allowed to occupy the majority of
the street frontage of buildings, compromising the pedestrian
environment of streets and neighborhood context, and
resulting in driveways and curb cuts that reduce opportunities
for street trees and on-street parking.
Front entrances oriented
to streets are currently
required for houses and
attached houses, but are
not required for
apartment buildings and
other multi-dwelling
housing types.
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report Page 43
Proposal Approach
11a.  Limit front garages and parking structures to 50 percent of building street frontages.
The amendments limit garages and structured parking from occupying more than half of the street-
facing facades of all housing types. This promotes arrangement such as:

For attached houses, the limit will apply to the combined frontage of attached units, allowing for a mix
of units with and without front garages, and preserving some on-street parking (as in image at lower
right). Exceptions to the front garage limitation are provided for structured parking that is partially
underground or along secondary street frontages.

11b.  Disallow parking from being located between buildings and streets.
Amendments will limit vehicle parking from being located in front of buildings. Off-street surface parking
will need to be located to the rear or to the side of buildings in most situations. Related proposals
require parking to be accessed from alleys where they exist (applies to multi-dwelling development on
small sites up to 10,000 square feet) and limit surface vehicle areas from occupying more than 40
percent of street frontages (a reduction from the current 50 percent allowance).

12. Require building entrances oriented to streets or to courtyards connected to streets.
This will apply to all types of
development in the multi-dwelling
zones.

The limitation will also apply to ground-level
parking structures
Rear parking or options with no off-street parking Front garages taking up less than half of street frontages
Page 44 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report December 2, 2019
Building Design and Scale

Proposals
13. Require front setbacks that reflect neighborhood patterns and limit privacy impacts.
14. Simplify side and rear setback regulations and reduce barriers to development on small sites.
15. Require building height transitions to single-dwelling zones.
16. Require large building facades to be divided into smaller components.

Issues Addressed
Comprehensive Plan policies encourage compact development that integrates with neighborhood
patterns and transitions in scale to lower density zones.
Front setbacks and building scale
Lack of front setback requirements in the
higher density zones (R1 and RH) sometimes
result in abrupt changes from the green
street frontages of residential
neighborhoods, and can impact residents’
privacy.
Also creating abrupt transitions, buildings of
four or more stories can be built next to
properties with single-dwelling zoning.
Recent amendments to the commercial/mixed use zones added requirements for height step downs to
lower-scale zones and requirements for large facades to be divided into smaller components, but these
do not apply in the multi-dwelling zones.
Barriers to small-site
development
Existing regulations in the multi-
dwelling zones require side and
rear setbacks ranging from 5 to
14 feet (depending on building
size), which complicates compact
development on small sites. The
graphics compare the 5-foot
setback that applies in single-
dwelling zones to the greater
setbacks required in the multi-
dwelling zones, even for similar-
scale buildings, leaving less space
for housing or central courtyards.
Examples of historic multi-dwelling buildings
on small lots. Current side setback
requirements make similar development
difficult to build today.
Multi-Dwelling Zones Single-Dwelling Zones
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report Page 45
Proposal Approach
13. Require front setbacks that reflect neighborhood
patterns and limit privacy impacts.
In the RM2 and RM3 (R1 and RH) zones, this proposal will require
10-foot front setbacks. This will help integrate new development
with established residential neighborhood patterns.  This setback
also provides space for small trees that contribute to greener
street environments and help limit urban heat islands. Context-
responsive exceptions are provided for:
 Smaller setbacks to match adjacent existing buildings.
 Buildings with ground-floor commercial uses (no setback).
 Reduced front setback (5-feet less than usual requirement)
when residential units are raised 2 feet above sidewalk level
to limit privacy impacts.
 Buildings with landscaped courtyards facing the street
can have building wings with reduced front setbacks.

14. Simplify side and rear setback regulations and
reduce barriers to development on small sites.
Require 5-foot minimum side and rear setbacks to
facilitate development on small sites in the multi-dwelling
zones and provide space for more usable open areas,
such as central courtyards. For buildings more than 55-
feet tall in the RM3 and RM4 (RH) zones, a 10-foot
setback will be required to limit impacts of bigger
buildings.
Related proposals to facilitate development on small
sites include allowances for small accessory structures (such as storage sheds) to be located in setbacks,
more flexible landscaping requirements, and reduced off-street parking
requirements (see page 41).
15. Require building height transitions to single-dwelling zones.
In the RM2, RM3, and RM4 (R1 and RH) zones, this proposal requires taller
buildings to step down in scale when located next to single-dwelling
zones, with building heights limited to 35 feet (three stories) within 25
feet of properties with single-dwelling zoning.
16. Require large building facades to be divided into smaller
components.
This proposal will require at least 25 percent of large building facades
to be offset. This will apply to building over three stories tall in the RM2
(R1) zone and over four stories in the RM3 and RM4 (RH) zones.

Small side setbacks allow for the diversity of housing on small
sites shown on this block – a mix of small apartment buildings,
houses, and a courtyard apartment building.
Landscaped front setbacks can help continue
established neighborhood patterns, even with
higher-density developments.
Page 46 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report December 2, 2019
Building Design and Scale

Proposals
17. Provide design options that support urban development along major corridors.
a. Allow for a continuous frontage of buildings along major corridors with no requirements for
setbacks between properties along corridors.
b. Allow buildings up to 100-feet tall in the RM4 zone close to frequent transit lines.

Issues Addressed
Comprehensive Plan policies call for fostering Civic and Neighborhood corridors as distinctive urban
places that have transit-supportive densities of housing (as well as commercial services and
employment). However, current regulations in the multi-dwelling zones apply the same way regardless
of whether sites are located along these corridors or on neighborhood side streets.

Comprehensive Plan Corridors
Civic Corridors are the city’s busiest, widest and most
prominent streets.
Neighborhood Corridors are typically narrower main
streets that provide important neighborhood
connections.
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report Page 47
Proposal Approach
17a.  Allow for a continuous frontage of buildings along major corridors with no requirements
for setbacks between properties along corridors.
In the RM2, RM3, and RM4 zones in inner neighborhoods, amendments will allow for no setbacks
between properties located along Civic or Neighborhood corridors. This allowance will only apply in the
Inner Pattern Area (see map on next page), which has an established pattern of zero side setbacks
between buildings along traditional main streets. This will allow for a continuous frontage of buildings in
both commercial and most multi-dwelling zones along Civic and Neighborhood corridors.  In the RM2
zone, the most predominant multi-dwelling zoning along corridors, proposals also allow for greater
building coverage along these corridors than in other locations (70 percent of a property can be covered
by buildings, instead of the usual 60 percent limitation). Properties in the RM1 zone are not included in
this no setback allowance, because this lower-scale zone is intended to continue characteristics of
single-dwelling neighborhoods.
 Allowances in the Inner Pattern Area allow for zero setbacks between properties along Civic and Neighborhood corridors to
provide for a more continuous frontage of buildings along these important corridors, which are typically well served by transit
and commercial services.

17b.  Allow buildings up to 100-feet tall in the RM4 zone close to frequent transit lines.
In the RM4 zone, which is the largest scale multi-dwelling zone outside the Central
City, current regulations allow buildings up to 100 feet tall (ten stories) in locations
within 1,000 feet of light rail stations (outside these locations the height limit is 75
feet). Amendments expand this 100-foot height allowance to also apply within
500-feet of frequent transit lines (where buses come at least every 20 minutes
during peak hours). This height allowance along frequent transit lines will not be
provided in historic or conservation districts, where this height is only provided
close to light rail stations. The additional height is not accompanied by increased
FAR, which will provide opportunities for buildings to be taller and less boxy
than buildings limited to 75-foot height when built to the proposed RM4 base
and bonus FARs of 4 to 1 and 6 to 1. The expanded allowance for 100-foot
height will increase the amount of land area where this height is allowed from
the current 25 acres to a total of 78 acres. Design review will be required for
development of this scale.
1960s high rise buildings in the
RM4 zone. Except near light rail
stations, current base zones
outside the Central City
(including this location) provide
no options for such development
today.
Page 48 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report December 2, 2019
East Portland Standards and Street Connections

Proposals
18. Continue East Portland mid-block open areas through
requirements for deep rear setbacks.

Issues Addressed
Comprehensive Plan policies call for development to be
responsive to the characteristics and needs of different
parts of Portland, with their distinct built and natural
patterns. For the Eastern Portland pattern area, policies
call for respecting the area’s stands of Douglas firs and the
positive aspects of its large blocks. Policies also recognize
the need for more street connections to make it easier for
people to get to community destinations.
New multi-dwelling development in Eastern
Portland has contributed to meeting housing needs.
But it has not always met expectations in terms of
design, and few new street connections have been
created.
A distinct feature of the area is its large blocks (often
400 to 600 feet wide at their narrow dimension,
compared to 200-feet wide in Inner neighborhoods,
and sometimes more than 1,000 feet in length).
Properties in the multi-dwelling zones are frequently
200 to 300 feet in depth. This results in poor street
connectivity, but these blocks sometimes feature
groves of Douglas firs and green mid-block areas that
are valued by community members.
Site elements that East Portland residents say are
important to include with multi-dwelling
development. These are addressed by various Better
Housing by Design amendments..
New multi-dwelling development on the area’s
deep lots often leaves little unbuilt or unpaved
space.
Ten blocks in downtown Portland can fit into one large East
Portland block.
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report Page 49
Proposal Approach
18. Continue East Portland mid-block open areas through requirements for deep rear setbacks.
This proposal will apply only to sites with multi-dwelling zoning in Eastern Portland (map on
previous page).  It will require a rear setback equal to 25 percent of the site depth.  This is
responsive to the area’s large blocks and community
interest in continuing some of the area’s mid-block
characteristics, such as rear yards and tree groves. Keeping
mid-block areas more open could also help leave space for
connections through the area’s large blocks to help
improve connectivity. Exceptions to this requirement
include:
 Sites no more than 100 feet deep and corner sites are
exempt from this special setback (sites where a new street
connection is being proposed will typically be exempt).
 Buildings serving as indoor community space can be located
within the setback.
 Parking areas can occupy up to half the setback area. This is
intended to work in conjunction with other regulations that
discourage parking from being located toward the front of
sites.
 Sites providing large common areas (minimum of 10 percent of site area) elsewhere on the site are
exempt.

This proposal is a significant change from current regulatory approaches and will require changes to
typical site design arrangements (units will more often need to be grouped or attached). However, code
modeling of this proposal indicates that this requirement will not prevent the scale of development
intended for multi-dwelling zones in East Portland (see Appendix B). Project staff held a workshop on
March 14, 2018, with East Portland community members to discuss this proposal. Workshop
participants supported the proposal, but requested an exception for projects that provide common
areas or courtyards that are more central to units (see page 52). Staff incorporated this exception into
the Better Housing by Design proposals.
Proposed approach
Development arranged to provide mid-block outdoor area
at rear of site (same housing unit sizes and density as
current approach example)
Current approach
Development extends to rear of lots
Large blocks with multi-dwelling zoning in East
Portland, with Douglas fir groves located at the
centers of the blocks.
Page 50 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report December 2, 2019
East Portland Standards and Street Connections

Proposals
19. Require street frontages wide enough for quality site design and to provide space for new street
connections in East Portland centers.
20. Calculate development allowances prior to street dedication to facilitate street connections.

Issues Addressed
Comprehensive Plan policies call for centers to become well-connected places where
it is easy to get around by foot or bicycle. Centers in East Portland have deficient
street connectivity, making it difficult for residents to access local destinations and
transit.
New development provides opportunities for creating new street connections.
However, the narrow sites common in East Portland are often too narrow to fit even a
partial street connection, resulting in no new connections when development occurs
on these sites. Also, when new street connections are provided, current regulations
reduce the amount of housing units that can be built, which creates a disincentive to
providing street connections.
Properties in the multi-dwelling zones in East Portland are often both narrow and very
deep (sites 60-feet wide and 200-feet or more in depth are common), making it
difficult to achieve quality site design. In recognition of some of the design challenges
related to development on East Portland’s narrow sites, Comprehensive Plan Policy
3.94 calls for land in Eastern Portland to be combined into larger sites before
development occurs.
Some of the problems with East Portland’s narrow sites are:
 Driveways and other vehicle areas often occupy a large proportion of site area
(20-foot wide driveways are typically required for deep sites).
 Lack of space for street connections (38 feet is typically need for a half-street
connection).
 Little opportunity for buildings to be oriented to public streets.
 Limited room for usable outdoor spaces or for trees.
 Lack of efficiencies of scale and infrastructure.

.
Full street connections are too wide to fit into many lots in
Eastern Neighborhoods (50-foot wide street shown).
60-foot wide by 300-foot
deep site in the R1 zone in
East Portland.
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report Page 51
Proposal Approach
19. Require street frontages wide enough
for quality site design and to provide
space for new street connections in
East Portland centers.
This proposal will apply to sites with multi-
dwelling zoning located in the Jade District,
122nd/Hazelwood, Rosewood/Glenfair
neighborhood centers and in and around the
Midway town center (see map). Within these
areas, for multi-dwelling zone sites more than
160-feet deep, the proposal requires a minimum
street frontage of 90 feet for development of
new units to take place. Exceptions are provided
for projects approved through a Planned
Development Review or that are surrounded
by fully-developed properties.
This minimum street frontage width will
provide enough space for a variety of site
configurations, more efficient site design and
partial street connections (if needed), as well
as allow for driveways to take up less than a
quarter of the site width. While there are
many benefits to larger sites, a tradeoff is that
requiring narrow sites to be combined adds
time, cost, and complexity to development.

20. Calculate development allowances prior to
street dedication to facilitate street connections.
This proposal will apply citywide. It allows FAR to be
calculated before street right-of-way is dedicated, to
reduce disincentives to providing street connections.

Currently, development that provides a
public street connection loses
development allowances (above), while
a development that only includes a
private driveway (below) has no such
penalty.
Page 52 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report December 2, 2019
 East Portland Standards and Street Connections

In combination, the proposed East Portland standards set new direction for the form of development in
the area that could accommodate multi-dwelling housing in ways that include outdoor spaces and new
street and pedestrian connections. PBOT’s Connected Centers Street Plan (see Appendix G) works in
conjunction with these zoning code amendments by proposing
new types of narrower street connections that will expand
possibilities for fitting street connections into constrained
sites.
There are many precedents around the world for blocks with
high-density housing that incorporate mid-block outdoor space
along with urban housing (see image to right). These
precedents often have blocks that are substantially larger than
inner Portland’s 200-foot deep blocks, but these configurations
may be possible over time on East Portland’s large blocks.

These graphics show potential long-term outcomes for East Portland blocks. The second graphic shows a continuation of current
trends, with development – often on narrow sites – built to the rear of each site. The third illustrates the deep rear setback approach,
which over time could result in a substantial contiguous area of mid-block outdoor spaces. The fourth graphic shows a potential
outcome of the proposed regulations, which would generally require deep rear setbacks, but provides exceptions for projects with
centralized common areas or street connections.
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report Page 53
Other Major Amendments

21.  Strengthen minimum density requirements.
Currently, regulations allow units to be added to existing development without having to meet the
minimum density requirements. This is proposed to be changed so that most development of new
residential units (which the exception of accessory dwelling units and the addition of units within
existing buildings) must meet minimum density requirements.
This will help ensure that new construction meets the intended development intensities of the multi-
dwelling zones. It will prevent a situation common on deep sites in East Portland, where an existing
house is preserved and multiple new houses added to the rear of a site, sometimes significantly
underbuilding the intended densities of multi-dwelling zones.
This amendment will continue to exempt properties with historic resources from minimum density
requirements and provides reduced minimum densities for sites where trees are being preserved. It also
adds exemptions for sites in flood or landslide hazard areas.

22. Require Transportation and Parking Demand Management approaches in the
multi-dwelling zones.
This proposal adds Transportation and Parking Demand Management (TDM) requirements to the multi-
dwelling zones. TDM strategies are intended to help reduce drive-alone trips and to limit transportation
impacts of new development, while providing people with incentives to ride transit, walk, bike, and
carpool.

TDM requirements were previously adopted for the commercial/mixed use zones, and will now also
apply to the new multi-dwelling zones (RM1, RM2, RM3, and RM4), which allow a similar scale of
residential development. TDM requirements will only apply to sites that are close to frequent transit
service (e.g., within 500 feet from frequent bus lines), in recognition of the more limited transportation
options outside of these areas.

Where the requirement applies, a TDM plan will be required for projects that include buildings with 10
or more new residential units. The TDM requirements allow an applicant/building manager to adopt a
pre-approved “off the shelf” TDM plan. As an alternative, an applicant may choose to develop a custom
TDM plan through a Transportation Impact Review.

Pre-approved TDM plans will consist of the following components:
 Multimodal financial incentives: One-time multimodal financial incentives, equivalent in value
to an annual TriMet pass (currently $1,100), will be required for each residential unit (affordable
units will be exempt through 2020, and then would have reduced fees). Options will be provided
for the use of these funds to be applied toward TriMet passes for residents, bike share
memberships, or car share programs.
 Education and Information: Print materials about walking, bicycling, transit, and other
transportation options will be made available to building tenants and employees and displayed
in building common areas.
 Surveys:  Building operators will be required to participate in an annual transportation options
survey.
Page 54 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report December 2, 2019
Other Major Amendments

23.  Amend commercial/mixed use zone regulations to be consistent those in the multi-
dwelling zones.
Zones in both the commercial/mixed use zones (Chapter 33.130) and in the multi-dwelling zones
(Chapter 33.120) allow similar types and sizes of multi-dwelling buildings, such as multi-story apartment
buildings. To provide consistency in the regulations across these two types of zones, the Better Housing
by Design proposals include amendments to commercial/mixed use zone regulations that correspond to
regulations in the multi-dwelling zones. Amendments to the Chapter 33.130 commercial/mixed use zone
regulations (see Volume 3) include:
 Allow FAR bonuses and transfer allowances to be used in Historic and Conservation districts. In
the CM2 zone, the predominant commercial/mixed use zone in historic districts, this will allow
projects to exceed the base FAR of 2.5 to 1 (equivalent to a three-story building covering most of a
lot) and obtain a bonus FAR of up to 4 to 1, primarily through providing affordable house units (via
the inclusionary housing bonus). The maximum building height in historic districts will remain at 45
feet (four stories). Currently, buildings with 20 or more units are required to provide affordable
units, but do not receive any bonus FAR (which is intended to help offset the costs of providing
affordable units) when located in historic districts.
 Allow historic preservation FAR transfers citywide, instead of current two-mile maximum distance,
and to sites in multi-dwelling zones. Sites receiving FAR transfers in the commercial/mixed use zones
will still be subject to existing limits on how much additional FAR can be received. In the CM2 zone,
for instance, the maximum total FAR that can be achieved through FAR transfers is 3.25 to 1.
 Modify the commercial/mixed use zones parking standards to require 1 space for every 2 units for
larger sites outside frequent transit buffers (instead of 1 space for each unit). Also, provide reduced
parking requirements for small sites up to 10,000 square feet in size (instead of the current
threshold of 7,500 square feet), consistent with the multi-dwelling zones (on these small sites,
regardless of location, no off-street parking will be required for projects with up to 30 units or that
provide affordable units through inclusionary housing).
 In the CM2 and CM3 zones, change the step-down height across local service streets from single
dwelling zones to 45 feet (instead of 35 feet).  Also, eliminate requirements for height step downs
in the CM3 zone in locations adjacent to the RM2 zone.
 In the Inner Pattern Area, allow for zero setbacks from property lines abutting properties with
multi-dwelling zoning along Civic and Neighborhood corridors.
 Amendments to standards for outdoor common areas, pedestrian connections, and attached
house garages to correspond to amendments to similar standards in the multi-dwelling zones.

CM2 zone in historic districts
Building massing of current
maximum FAR and bonus FAR.
The maximum bonus scale of four
stories is similar to historic
buildings in some historic districts.

Base FAR:  2.5 to 1
(current maximum)
Bonus FAR:  4 to 1
(amendment)
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design – As Amended Staff Report Page 55
Comparison of Current and Amended Development Standards
This table provides a comparison of development standards that apply in the current zones (shaded) and
the corresponding standards for the new zones. This table is a summary and does not include all
development standards and details (see Volume 2 for details on existing and proposed development
standards). The table includes only one column for the RX zone and does not include the RMP zone, as
these zones are retaining their current names and are not proposed for significant changes.

Standard R3 R2 RM1 R1 RM2 RH RM3 RM4 RX
Maximum
Density/FAR
1 unit
per
3,000
sq. ft. of
site area
1 unit
per
2,000
sq. ft. of
site area
FAR of
1 to 1
1 unit
per
1,000
sq. ft. of
site area
FAR of
1.5 to 1
FAR of
2 to 1
or
4 to 1
FAR of
2 to 1
FAR of
4 to 1
(3 to 1 in
historic
districts)
FAR of
4 to 1
Minimum Density 1 unit
per
3,750
sq. ft. of
site area
1 unit
per
2,500
sq. ft. of
site area
1 unit
per
2,500
sq. ft.
of site
area
1 unit
per
1,450
sq. ft. of
site area
1 unit
per
1,450
sq. ft. of
site area
1 unit
per
1,000
sq. ft. of
site area
1 unit
per
1,000
sq. ft. of
site area
1 unit
per
1,000
sq. ft. of
site area
1 unit
per 500
sq. ft. of
site area
Maximum Height 35 ft. 40 ft. 35 ft. 45 ft. 45 ft. 65 ft. or
75/100 ft.
65 ft. 75/100
ft.6
100 ft.
Step-Down Height
(25’ from SFR zone)
-- -- 35 ft. -- 35 ft. -- 35 ft. 35 ft. 35 ft.
Minimum Front
Setback
10 ft. 10 ft. 10 ft. 3 ft. 5/10 ft.1 0 ft. 5/10 ft.1 0/5 ft.1 0 ft.
Minimum
Side/Rear
Setback3
5-14 ft. 5-14 ft. 5 ft. 5-14 ft. 5 ft. 5-14 ft. 5/10 ft.2 5/10 ft.2 0 ft.
Maximum
Building Coverage
45% 50% 50% 60% 60%
70%4
85% 85% 85% 100%

Minimum
Landscaped Area
35% 30% 30% 20% 20% 15% 15% 15% none
Required outdoor
area per unit
48
sq. ft.
48
sq. ft.
48
sq. ft.
48
sq. ft.
48
sq. ft.
none 36/48
sq. ft.5
36/48
sq. ft.5
none
1The larger setback is the general standard. The smaller setback applies when ground floors are raised 2 feet above sidewalk level (to
limit privacy impacts). Exemptions to required front setbacks apply for ground floor commercial uses, courtyard arrangements, and
allow setbacks to match those of buildings on adjacent properties.
2Side and rear setbacks are 5 feet for buildings up to 55-feet high, and 10 feet for buildings taller than this.
3In the Eastern Pattern area, required rear setbacks are equal to 25 percent of the depth of the site.
470% building coverage applies to properties that abut Civic or Neighborhood corridors.
5Required outdoor space is 36 square feet per unit for sites up to 20,000 square feet in total area, and 48 square feet per unit for
sites larger than this.
6Maximum height in RM4 zone is 100 feet within 1,000 feet of transit stations, and in locations outside historic districts that are
within 500 feet of streets with frequent transit service. Maximum height is 75 feet in other locations.

As Amended by
City Council
December 2, 2019
Volume 2:
Zoning Code
Amendments
EXHIBIT B
Page ii Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
Zoning Code Amendments

The Better Housing by Design project is updating Portland’s multi-
dwelling zoning rules to meet needs of current and future residents:
For more information …
Visit the project website: www.portlandoregon.gov/bps/betterhousing
Email the project team: betterhousing@portlandoregon.gov
Call project staff:  503-823-4203

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page iii
Zoning Code Amendments
Summary
This is Volume 2 of the Better Housing by Design As Amended by City Council report. Volume 2 includes
full code and commentary for amendments to the Comprehensive Plan and Zoning Code that will affect
how development is regulated in Portland’s multi-dwelling zones. The preceding Recommended Draft
incorporated the Portland Planning and Sustainability Commission’s (PSC) changes to the earlier
Proposed Draft and served as the PSC’s recommendation to City Council. The As Amended report
includes amendments passed by City Council on November 21, 2019.
The major components of the Better Housing by Design proposals include the following:
 Diverse housing options and affordability. Amendments provide more flexibility for a diverse
range of housing options – regulating development intensity by building size instead of numbers
of units – and expand incentives for affordable housing and physically-accessible units.
 Outdoor spaces and green elements. Amendments expand requirements for outdoor spaces for
residents, provide more options for innovative green options to meet landscaping requirements,
reduce parking requirements, and limit large paved areas.
 Building design and scale. Amendments include design standards that limit front garages,
require entrances oriented to the street, facilitate compact development, and provide new
design options for development on major corridors.
 East Portland standards and street connections. Amendments include standards focused on
improving outcomes in East Portland, including approaches to facilitate new street connections.
Other major components that are part of the As Amended report include a new array of multi-dwelling
zones and related Zoning Map changes, corresponding changes to Comprehensive Plan land use
designations, and amendments to commercial/mixed use zone regulations and other Zoning Code
chapters to bring consistency with the Better Housing by Design regulations for the multi-dwelling
zones.

Next Steps
City Council held public hearings on the Better Housing by Design Recommended Draft on October 2 and
November 6 of 2019. City Council deliberated and voted on amendments to the Recommended Draft on
November 21, 2019. City Council is scheduled to make a final decision on the Better Housing by Design
provisions on December 18, 2019, with the effective date for the new regulations and map amendments
scheduled for March 1, 2020. Project updates will be posted on the project website:
www.portlandoregon.gov/bps/betterhousing.

Page iv Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
Zoning Code Amendments
Volume 2:
Zoning Code Amendments

Table of Contents
 Comprehensive Plan Amendments…………………………………………………………………………….3
 33.120 Multi-Dwelling Zones………………………………………………………………………………………17
 33.258 Nonconforming Situations………………………………………………………………………………203
 33.266 Parking, Loading, And Transportation And Parking Demand Management……..207
 33.405 Alternative Design Density Overlay Zone………………………………………………………..229
 33.612 Lots in Multi-Dwelling Zones…………………………………………………………………………..235
 33.910 Definitions………………………………………………………………………………………………………239
 33.930 Measurements……………………………………………………………………………………………….245

This volume presents proposed Zoning Code and Comprehensive Plan amendments.  The document is
formatted to facilitate readability by showing draft code amendments on the right-hand pages and
related commentary on the facing left-hand pages.  The “crosswalk” table on the following page
provides a cross reference between the major proposals described in the Staff Report (Volume 1) and
where the related code changes appear in this document.

Zone names.  Text that discusses issues related to the current zones uses the current zone names.  Text
regarding the proposed code amendments uses the proposed new zone names, accompanied by the
corresponding current zone names in parentheses (e.g., RM1 [R2/R3]).

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 1
Zoning Code Amendments
Major Proposals – where to find them in the Zoning Code amendments

Proposal Code Reference Pages
Diverse Housing Options and Affordability
1. Regulate by building scale instead of unit density. 33.120.210 54-57
2. Prioritize affordable housing by increasing inclusionary housing
development bonuses and through a family housing bonus.
33.120.211 62-67
3. Promote accessible housing through a visitable units bonus. 33.120.211.C.4 66-67
4. Provide incentives for preserving trees, affordable housing, and
historic buildings through transfers of development rights.
33.120.210.D 57-61
5. Allow small-scale commercial uses on major corridors. 33.120.100.B 32-39
Outdoor Spaces and Green Elements
6. Require residential outdoor areas in high density zones. 33.120.240 120-123
7. Require shared common areas for large sites. 33.120.240 122-125
8. Allow alternatives to conventional landscaping. 33.120.235 118-121
9. Limit large surface parking lots and asphalt paving. 33.266.130.C.4 216-217
10. Reduce parking requirements, especially for small sites and for
projects with affordable units.
33.266.110.D
Tables 266-1 & 266-2
207
209& 211
Building Design and Scale
11. Limit front garages and parking along street frontages. 33.120.283
33.266.120&130
170-173
212-223
12. Require building entrances to be oriented to streets or to
courtyards.
33.120.231 108-111
13. Require front setbacks that reflect neighborhood patterns and
provide privacy.
33.120.220.B
Table 120-3
86-89
55
14. Simplify side setback regulations to reduce barriers to compact
development.
33.120.220.B
Table 120-3
84-87
55
15. Require building height transitions to single-dwelling zones. 33.120.215.B
Table-120-3
80-83
55
16. Require large building facades to be divided into smaller
components.
33.120.230 105-107
17. Provide design options that support urban development along
major corridors.
33.120.220.B.3.j
33.120.215.B.1
89-91
80-81
East Portland Standards and Street Connections
18. Continue East Portland mid-block open areas through
requirements for deep rear setbacks.
33.120.220.B 84-89
19. Require street frontages wide enough for quality site design and
to provide space for new street connections in East Portland
centers.
33.120.206
Map 120-2
52-53
194-195
20. Calculate development allowances prior to street dedication to
facilitate street connections.
33.930.025 244-245
Other Major Proposed Amendments
21. Strengthen minimum density requirements. 33.120.212
33.258.060
70-73
202-203
22. Require transportation and parking demand management
approaches in the multi-dwelling zones.
33.266.410 226-227
23. Amend commercial/mixed use zone regulations to be consistent
with those in the multi-dwelling zones.
33.130 Volume 3

Commentary

Page 2 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 3
 Zoning Code Amendments
Proposed Comprehensive Plan Amendments

This section presents proposed amendments to the Comprehensive Plan. The amendments are
limited to changes to Chapter 10 (Land Use Designations). The proposed changes primarily
affect the multi-dwelling land use designation paragraphs and are necessary to accommodate
the proposed new multi-dwelling zones framework and the shift to regulating development
intensity by FAR (instead of unit density).
The section is formatted to facilitate readability by showing draft code amendments on the
right-hand pages and related commentary on the facing left-hand pages.

Commentary

Page 4 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
Comprehensive Plan
Chapter 10: Land Use Designations and Zoning
The proposed amendments to this chapter primarily consist of:
1. Changes to the multi-dwelling land use designations to correspond to the proposed new
multi-dwelling zones and the shift to regulating development intensity by FAR (instead of
unit density).
2. Minor amendments to other designations to provide clarity regarding the application of the
design overlay zone in association with these designations.
3. Updates to Figure 10-1, which identifies corresponding and allowed zones for each land use
designations, to reflect the new multi-dwelling zone names.
The existing multi-dwelling land use designations use names based on residential density.  For
example, “Multi-Dwelling – 2,000” reflects the corresponding R2 zone’s maximum density of 1 unit
per 2,000 square feet of site area.  This naming convention is no longer consistent with the proposal
to regulate multi-dwelling zones by development scale (FAR), instead of unit density (see pages 54-
57). The new Comprehensive Plan multi-dwelling designations use location-related names, similar to
the approach used for the mixed use designations. The proposed Comprehensive Plan Map
amendments assign to each property the new designation that corresponds to existing designations
(see below).

Current Comp Plan Name (& zone) New Comp Plan Name Corresponding New Zones
Multi-Dwelling – 3,000  (R3)
Multi-Dwelling – 2,000  (R2)
Multi-Dwelling – Neighborhood RM1
Multi-Dwelling – 1,000  (R1) Multi-Dwelling – Corridor RM2
High-Density Multi-Dwelling  (RH) Multi-Dwelling – Urban Center RM3, RM4
Central Residential  (RX) No change RX
Manufactured Dwelling Park No change RMP

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 5
 Zoning Code Amendments
Comprehensive Plan Amendments
Chapter 10: Land Use Designations and Zoning

Policies
Land use designations
The Comprehensive Plan Map is one of the Comprehensive Plan’s implementation tools. The
map includes land use designations, which are used to carry out the Comprehensive Plan. The
land use designation that best implements the goals and policies of the Plan is applied to each
area of the city. This section contains general descriptions of the land use designations.
Each description includes:
Type of place or Pattern Area for which the designation is intended.
General use and intensity expected within the area. In some cases, alternative development
options allowed in single-dwelling residential zones (e.g. duplexes and attached houses
on corner lots; accessory dwelling units) may allow additional residential units beyond
the general density described below.
Level of public services provided or planned.
Level of constraint.
Policy 10.1 Land use designations. Apply a land use designation to all land and water within
the City’s Urban Services Boundary. Apply the designation that best advances the
Comprehensive Plan goals and policies. The land use designations are shown on
the adopted Land Use Map and on official Zoning Maps.
Note: The pending Central City 2035 Plan will revise the Central City-specific land
use descriptions or will create new corresponding zones.
(Paragraphs 1 – 7:  no changes)
Multi-Dwelling Residential
8. Multi-Dwelling — 3,000
This designation allows a mix of housing types, including multi-dwelling
structures, in a manner similar to the scale of development anticipated within
the Single-Dwelling — 2,500 designation. This designation is intended for areas
near, in, and along centers and corridors where urban public services, generally
including complete local street networks and access to frequent transit, are
available or planned. Areas within this designation generally do not have

Commentary

Page 6 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
Chapter 10: Land Use Designations and Zoning (continued)
Multi-Dwelling – Neighborhood
The “Multi-Dwelling – 3,000” and “Multi-Dwelling – 2,000” designations are being replaced with a
new “Multi-Dwelling – Neighborhood” land use designation.  This aligns with the merging of the
corresponding R3 and R2 zones into the new RM1 zone (see page 26).
The description of the new Multi-Dwelling – Neighborhood designation and its name relate to its
application to areas intended to continue the scale of low-rise residential neighborhoods (typically
up to three stories) and providing for a mix of multi-dwelling and single-dwelling housing.  The
description of the new designation is derived from those of the two designations it replaces, both
of which were intended for development that is compatible in scale with single-dwelling housing.
The minimum density indicated is the minimum density of the corresponding RM1 zone.

Multi-Dwelling – Corridor
The “Multi-Dwelling – 1,000” designation has been renamed to “Multi-Dwelling Corridor.”  The new
land use designation name reflects the corresponding zone’s role as the predominant multi-dwelling
zoning along major transit streets, such as those designated as Civic Corridors or Neighborhood
Corridors in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan Urban Design Framework.  This designation is also applied
in centers and near transit stations.  Language in the description reflects the role of the
designation in providing opportunities for transit supportive densities of housing.  Changes to the
paragraph also reflect the fact that the corresponding RM2 (former R1) zone allows buildings 45-
feet tall (four stories), which is substantially different in scale than single-dwelling residential
areas.
Changes to language related to density reflect the to the proposed shift to regulating the
corresponding RM2 (R1) zone by scale/FAR, instead of unit density.  The minimum density indicated
is that of the corresponding RM2 zone.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 7
 Zoning Code Amendments
development constraints and may include larger development sites. The
maximum density is generally 14.5 units per acre, but may go up to 21 units per
acre in some situations. The corresponding zone is R3.
9. Multi-Dwelling — 2,000
This designation allows multi-dwelling development mixed with single-dwelling
housing types but at a scale greater than for single-dwelling residential. This
designation is intended for areas near, in, and along centers and corridors and
transit station areas, where urban public services, generally including complete
local street networks and access to frequent transit, are available or planned.
Areas within this designation generally do not have development constraints.
The maximum density is generally 21.8 units per acre, but may be as much as 32
units per acre in some situations. The corresponding zone is R2.
9. Multi-Dwelling — Neighborhood
This designation allows low-rise multi-dwelling development mixed with single-
dwelling housing types, at a scale that is compatible with, but somewhat larger
than, single-dwelling residential. This designation is intended for areas near, in,
and along centers, neighborhood corridors, and transit stations, in locations
where transit-supportive densities at a low-rise residential scale is desired. Areas
within this designation generally do not have development constraints, and are
in locations where urban public services, generally including complete local
street networks and access to frequent transit, are available or planned.
Maximum density is based on a floor area ratio, not on a units-per-square-foot
basis. Minimum density is 17 units per acre. The corresponding zone is RM1.
10. Multi-Dwelling — 1,000Corridor
This designation allows medium-scale density multi-dwelling development. The
scale of development is intended to reflect the allowedaccommodate transit-
supportive densities while providing transitions to being compatible with nearby
single-dwelling residential. The designation is intended for areas near, in, and
along centers, and civic and neighborhood corridors, and transit station areas,
where urban public services, generally including complete local street networks
and access to frequent transit, are available or planned. Areas within this
designation generally do not have development constraints. The maximum
density is generally 43 units per acre, but may be as much as 65 units per acre in
some situations. Maximum density is based on a floor area ratio, not on a units-
per-square-foot basis. Minimum density is 30 units per acre. The corresponding
zone is R1RM2.

Commentary

Page 8 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
Chapter 10: Land Use Designations and Zoning (continued)
Multi-Dwelling – Urban Center
The “High-Density Multi-Dwelling” designation has been renamed to “Multi-Dwelling – Urban
Center.”  The new designation name reflects the application of this designation to major centers,
including areas adjacent to the Central City, and to areas around light rail transit stations.  These
locations, intended for high-density development, are also where the similarly-named Mixed Use –
Urban Center designation is applied.
This land use designation has two corresponding zones, RM3 and RM4 zones, which were both
formerly the RH zone (the new zones correspond to the two different FAR levels that existed in
the RH zone – see page 22).  The zoning code “Characteristics of the Zones” paragraphs in Chapter
33.120 (see page 25) provide guidance as to the appropriate locations of the two corresponding
zones, when considering requests for zoning map amendments.  The minimum density indicated is
that of the corresponding RM3 and RM4 zones.
Language has been added to indicate that the Design (‘d’) overlay zone will always be applied in
conjunction with this designation (see Staff Report, page 22, regarding the proposed expansion of
the d-overlay to all properties with RM3 and RM4 zoning).  These zones allow buildings 65 to 100
feet tall, which matches or exceeds scale allowed in mixed use zones (EX and CM3) where the
design overlay is always applied.

Central Residential
For consistency with the other multi-dwelling land use designations, this paragraph is being
amended to indicate a minimum density that is the same as that of the minimum required density of
the corresponding RX zone.  The last sentence is being amended to clarify that the Design overlay
zone is always applied in conjunction with the corresponding zone (RX).  The use of the term
“generally” created uncertainty regarding application of the Design overlay zone.

Mixed Use – Civic Corridor
The only change to this paragraph is the addition of a sentence to clarify that one of this land use
designation’s corresponding zones, the CM3 zone, is always accompanied by the Design overlay zone.
This is not a new proposed approach, but continues the application of the d-overlay to the CM3
zone’s precursor zone, the EX zone (which the Mixed Use Zones Project renamed to CM3 in
locations outside the Central City and Gateway).

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 9
 Zoning Code Amendments
11. High-Density Multi-Dwelling — Urban Center
This designation is intended for the Central City, Gateway Regional Center, Town
Centers, and transit station areas where a residential focus is desired and urban
public services including access to high-capacity transit, very frequent bus
service, or streetcar service are available or planned. This designation is intended
to allow high-density multi-dwelling structures at an urban scale. Maximum
density is based on a floor-area-ratio, not on a unit-per-square-foot basis.
Minimum density is 43 units an acre Densities will range from 80 to 125 units per
acre. The corresponding zones is RH are RM3 and RM4. This designation is
accompanied by the Design overlay zone.
12. Central Residential
This designation allows the highest density and most intensely developed multi-
dwelling structures. Limited commercial uses are also allowed as part of new
development. The designation is intended for the Central City and Gateway
Regional Center where urban public services are available or planned including
access to high-capacity transit, very frequent bus service, or streetcar service.
Development will generally be oriented to pedestrians. Maximum density is
based on a floor area ratio, not on a units-per-square-foot basis. Minimum
density is 87 units per acre.Densities allowed exceed 100 units per acre. The
corresponding zone is RX. This designation is generally accompanied by athe
dDesign overlay zone.
13. Manufactured Dwelling Park
This designation allows multi-dwelling residential development in manufactured
dwelling parks. Allowed housing is manufactured dwellings that are assembled
off-site. The designation is intended to reflect the unique features of
manufactured dwellings parks in terms of a self-contained development with
smaller dwellings on individual spaces with an internal vehicle circulation system,
pedestrian pathways, and open area often resulting in lower building coverage
than other multi-dwelling designations. The maximum density is generally 29
spaces per acre, one space per 1,500 square feet of site area. The corresponding
zone is RMP.

Commentary

Page 10 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
Chapter 10: Land Use Designations and Zoning (continued)
The only changes to the paragraphs on this page are minor edits to their last sentences to clarify
that the Design overlay zone is always applied in conjunction with these designations and their
corresponding zones.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 11
 Zoning Code Amendments
Mixed Use and Commercial
(Paragraphs 14 – 15:  no changes)
16. Mixed Use — Civic Corridor
This designation allows for transit-supportive densities of commercial,
residential, and employment uses, including a full range of housing, retail, and
service businesses with a local or regional market. This designation is intended
for areas along major corridors where urban public services are available or
planned including access to high-capacity transit, frequent bus service, or
streetcar service. The Civic Corridor designation is applied along some of the
City’s busiest, widest, and most prominent streets. As the city grows, these
corridors also need to become places that can succeed as attractive locations for
more intense, mixed-use development. They need to become places that are
attractive and safe for pedestrians while continuing to play a major role in the
City’s transportation system. Civic Corridors, as redevelopment occurs, are also
expected to achieve a high level of environmental performance and design. The
corresponding zones are Commercial Mixed Use 1 (CM1), Commercial Mixed Use
2 (CM2), Commercial Mixed Use 3 (CM3), and Commercial Employment (CE).
Within this designation, the CM3 zone is accompanied by the Design overlay
zone.
17. Mixed Use — Urban Center
This designation is intended for areas that are close to the Central City and
within Town Centers where urban public services are available or planned
including access to high-capacity transit, very frequent bus service, or streetcar
service. The designation allows a broad range of commercial and employment
uses, public services, and a wide range of housing options. Areas within this
designation are generally mixed-use and very urban in character. Development
will be pedestrian-oriented with a strong emphasis on design and street level
activity, and will range from low- to mid-rise in scale. The range of zones and
development scale associated with this designation are intended to allow for
more intense development in core areas of centers and corridors and near
transit stations, while providing transitions to adjacent residential areas. The
corresponding zones are Commercial Mixed Use 1 (CM1), Commercial Mixed Use
2 (CM2), Commercial Mixed Use 3 (CM3), and Commercial Employment (CE).
This designation is generally accompanied by athe dDesign overlay zone.

Commentary

Page 12 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
Chapter 10: Land Use Designations and Zoning (continued)
The only changes to the paragraphs on this page are minor edits to their last sentences to clarify
that the Design overlay zone is always applied in conjunction with these designations and their
corresponding zones.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 13
 Zoning Code Amendments
18. Central Commercial
This designation is intended to provide for commercial development within
Portland’s Central City and Gateway Regional Center. A broad range of uses is
allowed to reflect Portland’s role as a commercial, cultural, and governmental
center. Development is intended to be very intense with high building coverage,
large buildings, and buildings placed close together along a pedestrian-oriented,
safe, and attractive streetscape. The corresponding zone is Central Commercial
(CX). This designation is generally accompanied by athe dDesign overlay zone.

Employment
19. Central Employment
The designation allows for a full range of commercial, light-industrial, and
residential uses. This designation is intended to provide for mixed-use areas
within the Central City and Gateway Regional Center where urban public services
are available or planned including access to high-capacity transit or streetcar
service. The intensity of development will be higher than in other mixed-use land
designations. The corresponding zone is Central Employment (EX). This
designation is generally accompanied by athe dDesign overlay zone.
(Paragraphs 20 – 22:  no changes)

Commentary

Page 14 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
Chapter 10: Land Use Designations and Zoning (continued)
Figure 10-1
This table is being updated to reflect the new multi-dwelling zone names.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 15
 Zoning Code Amendments
Figure 10-1. Corresponding and Allowed Zones for Each Land Use Designation
LU Designation Corresponding Zone(s) Non-corresponding zone(s) that are allowed
Open Space OS none

Farm and Forest RF OS
Single-Dwelling 20,000 R20 RF, OS
Single-Dwelling 10,000 R10 R20, RF, OS
Single-Dwelling 7,000 R7 R10, R20, RF, OS
Single-Dwelling 5,000 R5 R7, R10, R20, RF, OS
Single-Dwelling 2,500 R2.5 R5, R7, R10, R20, RF, OS

Multi-Dwelling 3,000 R3 R2.5, R5, R7, R10, R20, RF, OS
Multi-Dwelling 2,000 -
Neighborhood
R2
RM1
R3, R2.5, R5, R7, R10, R20, RF, OS
Multi-Dwelling 1,000 - Corridor R1
RM2
RM1, R2, R3, R2.5, R5, R7, R10, R20, RF, OS
High- Density Multi-Dwelling –
Urban Center
RH
RM3, RM4
RM1, RM2, R1, R2, R3, R2.5, R5, R7, R10, R20, RF, OS
Central Residential RX RM1, RM2, RM3, RM4 RH, R1, R2, R3
Manufactured Dwelling Park RMP none

Mixed-Use — Dispersed  CM1, CR CE, RM1, RM2, R1, R2, R3, R2.5, R5, R7, OS
Mixed-Use — Neighborhood  CM1, CM2, CE RM1, RM2, R1, R2, R3, R2.5, R5, OS
Mixed-Use — Civic Corridor CM1, CM2, CM3, CE RM1, RM2, R1, R2, R3, R2.5, R5, OS
Mixed-Use — Urban Center  CM1, CM2, CM3, CE IG1, EG1, CE, RM1, RM2, RM3, RM4, RH, R1, R2, R2.5, OS
Central Commercial CX IH, IG1, IG2, EG1, EG2, EX, CM1, CM2, CM3, CE, RX, RM1,
RM2, RM3, RM4 RH, R1, R2

Mixed Employment EG1, EG2 IH, IG1, IG2, RF
Central Employment EX none
Institutional Campus CI1, CI2, IR EG2, EX, CX, CM1, CM2, CM3, CE, RM1, RM2, R1, R2, R3,
R,2.5, R5, R7, R10, R20, RF, OS

Industrial Sanctuary IH, IG1, IG2 RF (R20, R10, R7, R5, OS) 1
1R20, R10, R7, R5 and OS are allowed zones in the Industrial Sanctuary only where the zoning pre-dates the
adoption of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan.

Commentary

Page 16 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 17
 Zoning Code Amendments
Proposed Zoning Code Amendments to
Chapter 33.120 Multi-Dwelling Zones

This section presents proposed zoning code amendments to the Multi-Dwelling Zones chapter.
The section is formatted to facilitate readability by showing draft code amendments on the
right-hand pages and related commentary on the facing left-hand pages.

Commentary

Page 18 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments

Chapter 33.120 Sections Table
The Chapter 33.120 sections table has been changed to reflect new or revised code sections
related to the proposed amendments (see individual code sections for details and commentary).

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 19
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120 Multi-Dwelling Zones
120
Sections:
General
33.120.010 Purpose
33.120.020 List of the Multi-Dwelling Zones
33.120.030 Characteristics of the Zones
33.120.040 Other Zoning Regulations
33.120.050 Neighborhood Contact
Use Regulations
33.120.100 Primary Uses
33.120.110 Accessory Uses
33.120.120 Nuisance-Related Impacts
Development Standards
33.120.200 Housing Types Allowed
33.120.205210 Development on Lots and Lots of Record
33.120.206 Minimum Required Site Frontage for Development
33.120.210 Floor Area Ratio
33.120.211 Floor Area Bonus Options
33.120.205212 Maximum Density
33.120.213 Minimum Density
33.120.215 Height
33.120.220 Setbacks
33.120.225 Building Coverage
33.120.230 Building Length and Façade Articulation
33.120.231 Main Entrances
33.120.232 Street-Facing Facades
33.120.235 Landscaped Areas
33.120.237 Trees
33.120.240 Required Outdoor and Common Areas
33.120.250 Screening
33.120.255 Pedestrian Standards
33.120.260 Recycling Areas
33.120.265 Amenity Bonuses
33.120.270 Alternative Development Options
33.120.275 Development Standards for Institutions
33.120.280 Detached Accessory Structures
33.120.283 Additional Development Standards for Structured Parking and Garages
33.120.284 Additional Development Standards for Flag Lots
33.120.285 Fences
33.120.290 Demolitions
33.120.300 Nonconforming Development
33.120.305 Parking and Loading
33.120.310 Signs

Commentary

Page 20 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
Chapter 33.120 Sections Table (continued)
See previous commentary.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 21
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.320 Inclusionary Housing
33.120.330 Street and Pedestrian Connections

Supplemental Information
Map 120-1 Civic and Neighborhood Corridors
Map 120-2 Minimum Required Site Frontage Areas
Map 120-3 Pattern Areas
Map 120-1 Index Map for RH Areas with Maximum FAR of 4:1
Maps 120-2 through 120-20 RH Areas with Maximum FAR of 4:1

Commentary

Page 22 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.010 Purpose
Amendments reflect additional allowances for limited commercial uses in the multi-dwelling zones
while emphasizing that allowances for additional uses should still continue the intended role of
these zones as places for housing.  Reference to “large scale” institutional uses is being changed
because the Institutional Residential (IR) zone was moved to a new chapter (33.150 Campus
Institutional) as part of Task 5 of the Comprehensive Plan Update.
Paragraph B is being amended to clarify that the existing reference to compatibility with the City’s
character is not intended to suggest that higher-density development will always be similar in scale
to what currently exists, but that the development standards are intended to shape development to
contribute to the intended characteristics of each zone and the places where they apply. In places
where the Comprehensive Plan directs growth, such as in centers and along corridors, the
implementing commercial/mixed use and multi-dwelling zones are intended to foster a more urban
environment. With this change, however, development standards work to ensure compatibility with
Portland’s design characteristics, as described in the Design and Development chapter of the
Comprehensive Plan, which identifies features such as pedestrian-friendly street frontages, green
elements, landmarks, and distinct built and natural patterns as key Portland characteristics.

33.120.020 List of the Multi-Dwelling Zones

The names of the multi-dwelling zones are being changed to be more reflective of the new
structure of the zones.  The current zone names for some zones are based on unit density (e.g., R2
– “Residential 2,000” corresponds to a maximum density of 1 unit per 2,000 sq. ft. of site area),
which will be less relevant with the proposed FAR approach to regulating by development scale (see
pages 54-57).  The new approach uses zone names that are consistent with the naming convention
used for the commercial/mixed use zones, in which larger zone name numbers correspond to
allowances for larger-scale development.  The new zones combine the current R3 and R2 zones, both
intended for low-rise multi-dwelling development, into the new RM1 zone (see commentary on page
26).  The new approach also splits the current RH zone into two separate zones (RM3 and RM4) that
reflect the different FARs and development standards that apply within the current RH zone
(which includes two separate levels of FAR:  2 to 1 and 4 to 1).

Current and Corresponding New Zones

Current
Short
Name
Current Full Name New
Short
Name
New Full Name
R3
R2
Residential 3,000
Residential 2,000
RM1 Residential Multi-Dwelling 1
R1 Residential 1,000 RM2 Residential Multi-Dwelling 2
RH High Density Residential (2:1 FAR) RM3 Residential Multi-Dwelling 3
RH High Density Residential (4:1 FAR) RM4 Residential Multi-Dwelling 4
RX Central Residential RX No change
RMP Residential Manufactured Dwelling Park RMP No change

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 23
 Zoning Code Amendments
General
33.120.010 Purpose
The multi-dwelling zones are intended to preserve land for urban housing and to provide opportunities
for multi-dwelling housing.
A. Use regulations. The use regulations are intended to create and maintain higher density
residential neighborhoods. At the same time, they allow for large scale institutional, campuses
limited commercial, and other nonresidential uses, but not to such an extent as to sacrifice the
overall residential neighborhood image and character of the multi-dwelling zones and their
intended role as places for housing.
B. Development standards. The six multi-dwelling zones are distinguished primarily by their
allowed scaledensity and development standards. The development standards work together
to create desirable residential areas by promoting aesthetically pleasing environments, safety,
privacy, energy conservation, and recreational opportunities. The development standards
generally assure that new development will be compatible with the City’s character and
contribute to the intended characteristics of each zone. At the same time, the standards allow
for flexibility for new development. In addition, the regulations provide certainty to property
owners, developers, and neighbors about the limits of what is allowed. The development
standards are generally written for development on flat, regularly shaped lots. Other situations
are addressed through special standards or exceptions.
33.120.020 List of the Multi-Dwelling Zones
The full and short names of the multi-dwelling residential zones and their map symbols are listed below.
When this Title refers to the multi-dwelling zones, it is referring to the six zones listed here. When this
Title refers to the residential zones or R zones, it is referring to both the single-dwelling zones in Chapter
33.110 and the multi-dwelling zones in this chapter.
Full Name Short Name/Map Symbol
Residential Multi-Dwelling 1 RM1
Residential Multi-Dwelling 2 RM2
Residential Multi-Dwelling 3 RM3
Residential Multi-Dwelling 4 RM4
Central Residential RX
Residential Manufactured Dwelling Park RMP

Full Name Short Name/Map Symbol
Residential 3,000 R3
Residential 2,000 R2
Residential 1,000 R1
High Density Residential RH
Central Residential RX
Residential Manufactured Dwelling Park RMP

Commentary

Page 24 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.030 Characteristics Of The Zones
These paragraphs have been rewritten to better reflect the updated intent of the multi-dwelling
zones, focusing more on scale, appropriate locations for the zones, and deleting past references to
unit density (reflecting the shift to regulating development intensity primarily by building
scale/FAR).

The RM1 zone (1 to 1 FAR, 35’ height), which combines the former R3 and R2 zones, is a low-
scale zone that provides a transition to single-dwelling residential areas, often located at the edges
of centers or along neighborhood corridors, or other areas intended to provide continuity with the
scale of established low-rise residential areas.

The RM2 zone (1.5 to 1 FAR, 45’ height), formerly the R1 zone, is a medium-scale zone applied in
and around a variety of centers and corridors and has similar allowed building height to the
predominant commercial/mixed use zones in these areas.

The RM3 zone (2 to 1 FAR and 65’ height), formerly the RH zone, is a high density, mid-rise zone
applied in locations close to the Central City and in centers and major corridors, and includes
requirements for front landscaping to integrate with established residential neighborhoods.

The RM4 zone (4 to 1 FAR and 75’ height), formerly RH zoning mapped for an FAR of 4 to 1, is
an intensely urban, mid- to high-rise zone applied in locations close to the Central City and in
centers and major corridors.

The RX zone (4 to 1 FAR, 100’ height) is the most intensely urban residential zone, and is applied
within the Central City and the Gateway Regional Center.

The paragraphs for the RM3 and RM4 zones include language indicating that the Design (‘d’) overlay
zone will be applied in conjunction with these zones (see Staff Report, page 22).  These zones allow
buildings 65 to 100 feet tall, which matches or exceeds scale allowed in mixed use zones (EX and
CM3) where the design overlay is always applied.

See pages 6 and 19 of the Staff Report (Volume 1) for diagrams illustrating the allowed scale of
each zone (Appendix B includes more detailed code modeling showing the maximum development
allowances for each zone).

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 25
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.030 Characteristics Of The Zones
A. RM1 zone. The RM1 zone is a low-scale multi-dwelling zone that is generally applied in locations
intended to provide a transition in scale to single-dwelling residential areas, such as the edges of
mixed-use centers and civic corridors, and along or near neighborhood corridors. Allowed housing is
characterized by one to three story buildings that relate to the patterns of residential
neighborhoods, but at a somewhat larger scale and building coverage than allowed in the single-
dwelling zones. The major types of new development will be duplexes, triplexes, rowhouses,
courtyard housing, small apartment buildings, and other relatively small-scale multi-dwelling and
small-lot housing types that are compatible with the characteristics of Portland’s residential
neighborhoods.
B. RM2 zone. The RM2 zone is a medium-scale multi-dwelling zone that is generally applied in and
around a variety of centers and corridors that are well-served by transit. Allowed housing is
characterized by buildings of up to three or four stories with a higher percentage of building
coverage than in the RM1 zone, while still providing opportunites for landscaping and outdoor
spaces that integrate with residential neighborhood characteristics. The major types of new housing
development will be a diverse range of multi-dwelling structures and other compact housing that
contribute to the intended urban scale of centers and corridors, while providing transitions in scale
and characteristics to lower-scale residential neighborhoods.
C. RM3 zone. The RM3 zone is a medium to high density multi-dwelling zone applied near the Central
City, and in centers, station areas, and along civic corridors that are served by frequent transit and
are close to commercial services. It is intended for compact, urban development with a high
percentage of building coverage and a strong building orientation to the pedestrian environment of
streets. This zone is intended for areas where the established residential character includes
landscaped front setbacks. Allowed housing is characterized by mid-rise buildings up to six stories
tall. The Design overlay zone is applied to this zone.
D. RM4 zone. The RM4 zone is a high density, urban-scale multi-dwelling zone applied near the Central
City, and in town centers, station areas, and along civic corridors that are served by frequent transit
and are close to commercial services. It is intended to be an intensely urban zone with a high
percentage of building coverage and a strong building orientation to the pedestrian environment of
streets, with buildings located close to sidewalks with little or no front setback. This is a mid-rise to
high-rise zone with buildings of up to seven or more stories. The Design overlay zone is applied to
this zone.
E. RX zone. The RX zone is a high density multi-dwelling zone that allows the greatest intensity of
development scale in the residential zones. The zone is applied within Portland’s most intensely
urban areas, specifically the Central City and the Gateway Regional Center. Allowed housing
development is characterized by large buildings with a very high percentage of building coverage.
The major types of new housing development will be mid-rise and high rise multi-dwelling
structures, often with allowed retail, institutional, or other service oriented uses. Development is
intended to be pedestrian-oriented, with buildings that contribute to an urban environment with a
strong street edge of buildings located close to sidewalks. The Design overlay zone is applied to this
zone.
F. RMP zone. The RMP zone is a low-scale multi-dwelling zone that allows manufactured dwelling
parks. Allowed density may be up to 29 units per acre. Allowed housing is manufactured dwellings
that are assembled off-site. Units are generally surrounded by vehicle circulation systems,
pedestrian pathways and open area, often resulting in lower building coverage than other multi-
dwelling zones. Development is compatible with low- and medium-density single-dwelling
development and multi-dwelling development. Generally, RMP zoning will be applied on large sites.

Commentary

Page 26 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.030 Characteristics Of The Zones (continued)
For legibility, these paragraphs have been rewritten and the former language shown as deleted,
although the new paragraphs (preceding page) incorporate much of the intent of the former
language.

Merging of the R3 and R2 Zones
The R3 and R2 zones are being combined into a new RM1 zone for a variety of reasons:
 The R3 and R2 zones allow a similar scale of development and both are intended for
development that is compatible in scale with single-family housing. The allowed building height
for the new zone will be 35 feet, which is the same as the R3 zone and a slight reduction from
the 40-foot height allowed in the R2 zone (see Table 120-3 on page 55). 35 feet is sufficient
for the 2- to 3-story scale intended for the new zone and will allow for a wide range of middle-
housing types (such as duplexes, fourplexes, and courtyard apartments) that historically were
located among single-family houses.  35 feet of height is also consistent with heights in the
R2.5 single-dwelling zone and the CM1 mixed-use zone, which are also intended for a scale that
is compatible with single-dwelling residential
neighborhoods.
 Other development standards – such as building
coverage, setbacks, outdoor area and landscaping,
vary little between the two zones (see box).
 The R3 zone applies in a relatively small amount
of area (517 acres out of the 5,160 acres of
multi-dwelling zoning), primarily in East Portland
and East Hayden Island (the R3 zone is a
remnant of Multnomah County zoning).
 The R3 zone has produced only a small amount
of new residential units over the past 10 years,
with 180 units built in that zone, compared to
the total amount of 8,730 units built in the
multi-dwelling zones during that period.
 As part of the shift to a scale/FAR-based
approach, staff considered an FAR of .75 to 1
for the R3 zone. Code modeling (see Appendix B) showed little difference in development scale
with the 1 to 1 FAR ratio proposed for the R2 zone (the .75 to 1 ratio is also less than the FARs
for multi-unit development proposed for the R2.5 single-dwelling zone by the Residential Infill
Project).
 Recent development in the R3 zone has been similar to what has been built in the R2 zone, with
the majority of development in both zones consisting of clusters of detached houses,
townhouses, duplexes, and small apartment buildings (see the Better Housing by Design
Assessment Report, Appendix F).
Map of
R3 zoning
 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 27
 Zoning Code Amendments
A. R3 zone. The R3 zone is a low density multi-dwelling zone. It allows approximately 14.5
dwelling units per acre. Density may be as high as 21 units per acre if amenity bonus provisions
are used. Allowed housing is characterized by one and two story buildings and a relatively low
building coverage. The major type of new development will be townhouses and small multi-
dwelling residences. This development is compatible with low and medium density single-
dwelling development. Generally, R3 zoning will be applied on large sites or groups of sites.
B. R2 zone. The R2 zone is a low density multi-dwelling zone. It allows approximately 21.8
dwelling units per acre. Density may be as high as 32 units per acre if amenity bonus provisions
are used. Allowed housing is characterized by one to three story buildings, but at a slightly
larger amount of building coverage than the R3 zone. The major types of new development will
be duplexes, townhouses, rowhouses and garden apartments. These housing types are
intended to be compatible with adjacent houses. Generally, R2 zoning will be applied near
Major City Traffic Streets, Neighborhood Collector and District Collector streets, and local
streets adjacent to commercial areas and transit streets.
C. R1 zone. The R1 zone is a medium density multi-dwelling zone. It allows approximately 43 units
per acre. Density may be as high as 65 units per acre if amenity bonus provisions are used.
Allowed housing is characterized by one to four story buildings and a higher percentage of
building coverage than in the R2 zone. The major type of new housing development will be
multi-dwelling structures (condominiums and apartments), duplexes, townhouses, and
rowhouses. Generally, R1 zoning will be applied near Neighborhood Collector and District
Collector streets, and local streets adjacent to commercial areas and transit streets.
D. RH zone. The RH zone is a high density multi-dwelling zone. Density is not regulated by a
maximum number of units per acre. Rather, the maximum size of buildings and intensity of use
is regulated by floor area ratio (FAR) limits and other site development standards. Generally the
density will range from 80 to 125 units per acre. Allowed housing is characterized by medium
to high height and a relatively high percentage of building coverage. The major types of new
housing development will be low, medium, and high-rise apartments and condominiums.
Generally, RH zones will be well served by transit facilities or be near areas with supportive
commercial services.
E. RX zone. The RX zone is a high density multi-dwelling zone which allows the highest density of
dwelling units of the residential zones. Density is not regulated by a maximum number of units
per acre. Rather, the maximum size of buildings and intensity of use are regulated by floor area
ratio (FAR) limits and other site development standards. Generally the density will be 100 or
more units per acre. Allowed housing developments are characterized by a very high
percentage of building coverage. The major types of new housing development will be medium
and high rise apartments and condominiums, often with allowed retail, institutional, or other
service oriented uses. Generally, RX zones will be located near the center of the city where
transit is readily available and where commercial and employment opportunities are nearby.
RX zones will usually be applied in combination with the Central City plan district.
F. RMP zone. The RMP zone is a low-scale multi-dwelling zone that allows manufactured dwelling
parks. Allowed density may be up to 29 units per acre. Allowed housing is manufactured
dwellings that are assembled off-site. Units are generally surrounded by vehicle circulation
systems, pedestrian pathways and open area, often resulting in lower building coverage than
other multi-dwelling zones. Development is compatible with low- and medium-density single-
dwelling development and multi-dwelling development. Generally, RMP zoning will be applied
on large sites.

Commentary

Page 28 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.040 Other Zoning Regulations
No change.

33.120.050 Neighborhood Contact
The code language shown here will be replaced on December 2, 2019, by new language adopted as
part of the Neighborhood Contact Code Update Project.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 29
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.040 Other Zoning Regulations
The regulations in this chapter state the allowed uses and development standards for the base zones.
Sites with overlay zones, plan districts, or designated historical landmarks are subject to additional
regulations. The Official Zoning Maps indicate which sites are subject to these additional regulations.
Specific uses or development types may also be subject to regulations in the 200s series of chapters.
33.120.050 Neighborhood Contact
A. Purpose. Neighborhood contact is required for larger residential projects in the multi-dwelling
zones because of the impacts that multi-dwelling projects can have on the surrounding
community. The neighborhood contact requirement provides an opportunity for community
input on the design of these projects by providing a setting for the applicant and neighborhood
residents to discuss a proposal in an informal manner. By sharing information and concerns
early, all involved have the opportunity to identify ways to improve a proposal and to resolve
conflicts.
B. Neighborhood contact requirement. Proposals meeting the following conditions are subject to
the neighborhood contact requirement as specified in Section 33.700.025, Neighborhood
Contact. All of the steps in 33.700.025 must be completed before a building permit is
requested.
1. The proposed development has not been subject to a land use review; and
2. The proposed development would create five or more new dwelling units. Dwelling units
are created:
a. As part of new development;
b. By adding net building area to existing development that increases the number of
dwelling units; or
c. By conversion of existing net building area from non-residential to residential uses.

Commentary

Page 30 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.100 Primary Uses
No significant change to this page.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 31
 Zoning Code Amendments
Use Regulations
33.120.100 Primary Uses
A. Allowed uses. Uses allowed in the multi-dwelling zones are listed in Table 120-1 with a “Y”.
These uses are allowed if they comply with the development standards and other regulations
of this Title. Being listed as an allowed use does not mean that a proposed use will be granted
an adjustment or other exception to the regulations of this Title. In addition, a use or
development listed in the 200s series of chapters is also subject to the regulations of those
chapters.
B. Limited uses. Uses allowed in these zones subject to limitations are listed in Table 120-1 with
an “L”. These uses are allowed if they comply with the limitations listed below and the
development standards and other regulations of this Title. In addition, a use or development
listed in the 200s series of chapters is also subject to the regulations of those chapters. The
paragraphs listed below contain the limitations and correspond with the footnote numbers
from Table 120-1.
1. Group Living. This regulation applies to all parts of Table 120-1 that have a [1].
a. General regulations. All Group Living uses in the multi-dwellingR3, R2, R1, RH, and RX
zones, except for alternative or post incarceration facilities, are regulated as follows:
(1) Seven to 15 residents. Group Living uses for 7 to 15 residents are allowed by
right subject to the regulations of Chapter 33.239, Group Living.
(2) More than 15 residents. Group Living facilities for more than 15 residents are
conditional uses. They are also subject to the regulations of Chapter 33.239,
Group Living.
(3) Exception. Normally all residents of a structure are counted to determine
whether the use is allowed or a conditional use as stated in (1) and (2) above.
The only exception is residential facilities licensed by or under the authority of
the state Department of Human Resources under ORS 443.400 to 443.460. In
these cases, staff persons are not counted as residents to determine whether
the facility meets the 15 resident cutoff, above which a conditional use is
required.
b. Alternative or post incarceration facilities. Group Living uses which consist of
alternative or post incarceration facilities are conditional uses regardless of size. They
are also subject to the regulations of Chapter 33.239, Group Living.

Commentary

Page 32 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
B. Limited Uses

2. Retail Sales And Service and Office uses in the RM1, RM2, RM3 and RM4 zones
These regulations allow, by right, limited amounts of commercial uses in multi-dwelling zones along
Civic and Neighborhood corridors (see map and commentary on page 34).
Along these corridors, allowing limited ground-floor commercial uses could help address the
negative impacts from traffic to residents of housing, such as in the multi-dwelling zones located
along East Portland’s multi-lane corridors.  In these locations, the livability of ground-level
residential living spaces located along busy street frontages is compromised by traffic noise and
privacy impacts.  Allowances for small commercial uses in these locations will provide opportunities
for ground-level businesses that could benefit from being located along busy, high-visibility street
frontages.  These allowances also allow more opportunities for neighborhood commercial services in
areas of Portland that lack walkable access to services and that could benefit from additional
opportunities for small businesses and local services, such as East Portland.  Commercial use
allowances currently apply in the RH zone along major corridors in the Northwest and Albina plan
districts (including along NE Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard).  The allowed amounts of retail sales
and service and office uses vary by zone, as follows:
In the RM1 and RM2 (R3/R2, R1) zones, ground floor retail or offices uses would be allowed up
to an FAR of .25 to 1 per site. This will allow up to 2,500 square feet of commercial use floor area
on a 10,000-square foot site. Each commercial use is be limited to 1,000 square feet (enough for a
small retail space, café, or office).
In the RM3 and RM4 (RH) and RX zones, ground floor retail or offices uses will be allowed up to
an FAR of .4 to 1 per site. This will allow up to 4,000 square
feet of floor area on a 10,000-square foot site. The
commercial use allowances are more generous than for the
lower-scale zones to reflect the more intensely urban
character of the RM3, RM4 and RX zones. Each commercial
use is limited to 2,000 square feet.
The proposal removes existing conditional use allowances in
the RH zone for commercial uses within 1,000 feet of a
transit station in order to prioritize corridors as appropriate
locations for commercial uses (rather than local service
streets). However, the proposed allowances facilitate small
commercial uses in multi-dwelling zones along corridors near
light rail stations (for example, near the 148th Avenue light
rail station in East Portland, the proposal allows commercial
uses in multi-dwelling zones along 148th Avenue and portions
of Burnside). See commentary on page 42 regarding
subsubparagraph 2.a.(2).
Projects using these allowances will need to meet the
minimum residential unit densities of their zone, which
will prevent purely commercial projects. Exterior
commercial activities will not be allowed, except for
outdoor seating.
Multi-dwelling housing along a Civic Corridor in East Portland
(top) and along East Burnside at a light rail station (below),
locations where code changes will allow limited amounts of
commercial uses.
 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 33
 Zoning Code Amendments
2. Retail Sales And Service and Office uses. This regulation applies to all parts of Table 120-1
that have a [2].
a. Limited uses. Retail Sales And Service and Office uses are allowed when:
(1) Retail Sales And Service and Office use on Civic and Neighborhood corridors.
Retail Sales And Service and Office uses are allowed, up to the following
amounts, on sites that abut a Civic or Neighborhood corridor shown on Map
120-1. All of the Retail Sales And Service and Office uses allowed by this
Subsubparagraph must be located on the ground floor within 100 feet of the
street lot line adjacent to the Civic or Neighborhood corridor and there can be
no exterior activities associated with the use except for outdoor seating:
 In the RM1 and RM2 zones, each use allowed by this Subsubparagraph is
limited to 1,000 square feet of net building area up to a total combined
floor area ratio of .25 to 1 for all of the uses allowed by this
Subsubparagraph. More than .25 to 1 total on the site and more than 1,000
square feet per use is prohibited; and
 In the RM3, RM4, and RX zones, each use allowed by this Subsubparagraph
is limited to 2,000 square feet of net building area up to a total combined
floor area ratio of .4 to 1 for all of the uses allowed by this
Subsubparagraph. More than .4 to 1 total on the site and more than 2,000
square feet per use is prohibited;
(2) Retail Sales And Service and Office use in the RM3 and RM4 zones. Retail Sales
and Service and Office uses are allowed in multi-dwelling buildings in the RM3
and RM4 zones. Each use allowed by this Subsubparagraph is limited to 1,000
square of net building area up to a total combined floor to area ratio of .1 to 1
for all of the uses allowed by this Subsubparagraph. More than.1 to 1 total on
the site and more than 1,000 square feet per use is prohibited. The uses allowed
by this Subsubparagraph must be located entirely within the building and must
have no external doors or signs visible from the exterior of the builidng.
Development of a use allowed by this Subsubparagraph must not result in
reduction of existing dwelling units.
b.  Conditional uses. Retail plant nurseries that do not meet the standards of
Subparagraph B.2.a. are a conditional use.
2. Retail Sales And Service and Office uses in the RH zone. This regulation applies to all parts
of Table 120-1 that have a [2].
a. Purpose. Certain commercial uses are allowed as conditional uses in the RH zone to
allow mixed-use development on larger sites that are close to light rail transit
facilities.
b. Regulations. Retail Sales And Service and Office uses are allowed as a conditional use
if they meet the following regulations.

Commentary

Page 34 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
B. Limited Uses (continued)
Civic Corridors and Neighborhood Corridors. These corridors are identified in the 2035
Comprehensive Plan and shown on the Comprehensive Plan Urban Design Framework.  They are
intended to be places that are a focus for commercial activity and transit-supportive densities of
housing.  The specific mapping used here corresponds to streets that are classified as Civic or
Neighborhood main streets and Civic or Neighborhood corridors on the Street Design Classification
maps of the Transportation System Plan.

Retail Sales And Service and Office uses in the RX zone
The regulations specific to commercial use allowances in the RX zone have been deleted, as these
regulations only applied outside the Central City and the Gateway Regional Center. The RX zone is
no longer mapped outside these two areas.

Civic and Neighborhood corridors where the allowances for small commercial uses would apply in multi-dwelling zones.
 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 35
 Zoning Code Amendments
(1) The uses are allowed in new multi-dwelling developments only. Conversion of
existing structures is prohibited;
(2) The net building area of the uses is limited to 20 percent of the net building area
of the development. Retail Sales and Service or Office uses that cumulatively are
more than 20 percent of the net building area are prohibited; and
(3) The site must be located within 1,000 feet of a Transit Station.
3. Retail Sales And Service and Office uses in the RX zone. This regulation applies to all parts
of Table 120-1 that have a [3].
a. Purpose. Certain commercial uses are allowed in the RX zone to improve the
economic viability of residential development by allowing mixed-use development.
At the same time, commercial uses are limited to assure that residential uses remain
the dominant use in the zone.
b. Central City plan district and Gateway plan district. Retail Sales And Service and
Office uses in the RX zone within the Central City plan district and the Gateway plan
district are exempt from the regulations of this paragraph, and are instead subject to
regulations in Chapter 33.510, Central City Plan District and Chapter 33.526, Gateway
Plan District.
c. Commercial uses in new multi-dwelling development. Adjustments to the regulations
of this subparagraph are prohibited.
(1) Limited uses.
 If all of the Retail Sales And Service or Office uses are on the ground floor, up
to 40 percent of the net building area of a new multi-dwelling development
may be in Retail Sales And Service or Office uses;
 If any portion of the Retail Sales And Service or Office uses is not on the
ground floor, up to 20 percent of the net building area of a new multi-
dwelling development may be in Retail Sales And Service or Office uses.
(2) Conditional uses.
 If any portion of the Retail Sales And Service or Office uses is not on the
ground floor, up to 40 percent of the net building area of a new multi-
dwelling development may be in Retail Sales And Service or Office uses if
approved as a conditional use;
 If the entire site is within 500 feet of a Transit Station, up to 50 percent of
the net building area of a new multi-dwelling development may be in Retail
Sales And Service or Office uses if approved as a conditional use.
d. Commercial uses in existing multi-dwelling development. Up to 40 percent of existing
net building area in a multi-dwelling development may be converted to Retail Sales
And Service and Office uses if the following are met. Adjustments to the regulations
of this subparagraph are prohibited:
(1) All of the Retail Sales And Service or Office uses must be on the ground floor;
and

Commentary

Page 36 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
Limited Uses (continued)
See previous commentary.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 37
 Zoning Code Amendments
(2) The conversion may not result in a net loss of the square footage in residential
use, or a net loss in the number of dwelling units in
the development.
e. Outdoor activities. All commercial uses must be conducted entirely within fully
enclosed buildings. However, incidental activities such as outdoor eating areas or
outdoor sale of plants are allowed. Exterior display or storage of goods is prohibited.
f. Transfer of commercial development rights. The commercial development rights of
this Paragraph may be transferred between buildings within a single new project.
Transfers are subject to the following requirements:
(1) The transfer of commercial use potential to sites on the Park Block frontages is
prohibited. The Park Block frontages are shown on Map 510-14;
(2) The net building area of commercial uses does not exceed 20 percent of the
project’s net building area, unless approved under the provisions of
Subparagraph d. above;
(3) All residential net building area in the project must be completed and must
receive a certificate of occupancy at the same time or prior to issuance of any
temporary or permanent certificate of occupancy for the commercial uses; and
(4) A deed restriction is created and filed for the lot containing the residential
building(s) reflecting the decrease in commercial use potential. The deed
restriction must comply with the requirements of 33.700.060, Covenants with
the City.
34. Commercial Parking in RX. This regulation applies to all parts of Table 120-1 that have a
[34]. Outside the Central City plan district, Commercial Parking facilities in parking
structures are a conditional use. Commercial Parking facilities in surface lots are
prohibited. Within the Central City plan district, there are special regulations; see Chapter
33.510. Any ground floor retail requirements that result from other regulations continue
to apply and are reviewed as part of the land use review process.
45. Community Service and Schools in RX. This regulation applies to all parts of Table
120-1 that have a [45]. Short term housing and mass shelters are also regulated by
Chapter 33.285, Short Term Housing and Mass Shelters.
a. Limited uses. Community Service and Schools uses are allowed in a multi-dwelling
development if all of the Community Service and Schools uses are located on the
ground floor. If any portion of a Community Service or Schools use is not on the
ground floor of a multi-dwelling development, the Community Services and Schools
uses are limited to 20 percent of the net building area;
b. Conditional uses. If any portion of the Community Service and Schools uses is not on
the ground floor of a multi-dwelling development and the uses exceed 20 percent of
the total net building area, then a conditional use review is required.
56. Community Service in R3RM1 through RM4RH and RMP. This regulation applies to all
parts of Table 120-1 that have a [56]. Most Community Service uses are regulated by
Chapter 33.815, Conditional Uses. Short term housing and mass shelters are regulated by
Chapter 33.285, Short Term Housing and Mass Shelters.

Commentary

Page 38 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
Limited Uses (continued)

7. Daycare
This paragraph is being amended to allow daycare uses as a limited use in multi-dwelling zones.
Currently, daycares are conditional uses in most situations in the multi-dwelling zones (subject to
discretionary review).  Allowing daycare uses by right would expand opportunities for this needed
service close to residents.

In all multi-dwelling zones, regardless of location, this amendment will allow daycare facilities by
right up to a size of 3,000 square feet.  State requirements for childcare facilities mandate 50
square feet per child.  The 3,000 square foot allowance would allow up to 60 children.  Outdoor play
areas are not included as part of this size limitation.  Daycare uses are not limited to locations
abutting major corridors, as is proposed for ground-floor commercial uses, to provide more
flexibility for daycares to be further away from the traffic of corridors.

Larger daycare facilities can be approved through a conditional use approval process.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 39
 Zoning Code Amendments
67. Parks And Open Areas. This regulation applies to all parts of Table 120-1 that have a [67].
Parks And Open Areas uses are allowed by right. However, certain accessory uses and
facilities which are part of a Parks And Open Areas use require a conditional use review.
These accessory uses and facilities are listed below.
a. Swimming pools.
b. Cemeteries, including mausoleums, chapels, and similar accessory structures
associated with funerals or burial.
c. Golf courses, including club houses, restaurants, and driving ranges.
d. Boat ramps.
e. Parking areas.
f. Recreational fields for organized sports. Recreational fields used for organized sports
are subject to the regulations of Chapter 33.279, Recreational Fields for Organized
Sports.
78. Daycare. This regulation applies to all parts of Table 120-1 that have a [78]. Daycare uses
are allowed as follows:
a. Allowed use. Daycare uses are allowed by right if locateding within a building
whichthat currently contains or did contain a College, Medical Center, School,
Religious Institution, or a Community Service use.
b. Limited use. Daycare uses are allowed when:
 (1) The total amount of Daycare use on the site does not exceed 3,000 square feet
of net building area. The total amount allowed does not include outdoor play
area; and
(2) All of the Daycare use, except for outdoor play area, is located on the ground
floor.
c. Conditional uses. Daycare uses that do not meet Subparagraph B.8.a. or b. are a
conditional use.
89. Radio Frequency Transmission Facilities. This regulation applies to all parts of Table 120-1
that have a [89]. Some Radio Frequency Transmission Facilities are allowed by right. See
Chapter 33.274.

Commentary

Page 40 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
Limited Uses (continued)

Retail Sales and Service
This regulation, specific to retail plant nurseries, has been moved to Paragraph 2 (Retail Sales And
Service and Office uses).

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 41
 Zoning Code Amendments
910. Basic Utilities. These regulations apply to all parts of Table 120-1 that have a [913].
a. Basic Utilities that serve a development site are accessory uses to the primary use
being served;
b. Small Scale Energy Production that provides energy for on-site or off-site use are
considered accessory to the primary use on the site. Installations that sell power they
generate—at retail (net metered) or wholesale—are included. However, they are
only considered accessory if they generate energy from biological materials or
byproducts from the site itself, or conditions on the site itself; materials from other
sites may not be used to generate energy. In the RX zone, up to 10 tons per week of
biological materials or byproducts from other sites may be used to generate energy.
The requirements of Chapter 33.262 Off Site Impacts must be met;
c. In the RX zone, all other Basic Utilities are limited to 20 percent of the net building
area on a site. If they are over 20 percent of the net building area, a conditional use
review is required. As an alternative to conditional use review, the applicant may
choose to do a Conditional Use Master Plan or an impact Mitigation Plan. The
requirements of Chapter 33.262, Off Site Impacts must
be met.
1011. Agriculture. This regulation applies to all parts of Table 120-1 that have a [1014]. If the
use and site do not meet the regulations of Chapter 33.237, Food Production and
Distribution, it is prohibited.
12. Retail Sales and Service. This regulation applies to all parts of Table 120-1 that have note
[15]. Retail plant nurseries are a conditional use.
1113. Retail Sales And Service in the RMP zone. This regulation applies to all parts of Table
120-1 that have note [1113]. Recreational vehicle parks are allowed by right in the RMP
zone. All other Retail Sales And Service uses are prohibited.
C. Conditional uses.
1. Table 120-1. Uses which are allowed if approved through the conditional use review
process are listed in Table 120-1 with a “CU”. These uses are allowed provided they
comply with the conditional use approval criteria for that use, the development standards,
and other regulations of this Title. Uses listed with a “CU” that also have a footnote
number in the table are subject to the regulations cited in the footnote. In addition, a use
or development listed in the 200s series of chapters is also subject to the regulations of
those chapters. The conditional use review process and approval criteria are stated in
Chapter 33.815, Conditional Uses.
2. Accessory short-term rentals. Accessory short-term rentals are accessory uses that may
require a conditional use review. See Chapter 33.207.
D. Prohibited uses. Uses listed in Table 120-1 with an “N” are prohibited. Existing uses in
categories listed as prohibited may be subject to the regulations of Chapter 33.258,
Nonconforming Uses And Development.

Commentary

Page 42 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.110 Accessory Uses

B.  Accessory commercial uses in the RM3 and RM4 zones (RH)
This paragraph has been modified and moved to the limited uses paragraph (33.120.100.B.2 – see
page 33).  In its new location, this regulation is being amended to base the accessory commercial
uses allowance on FAR (with a maximum size per use of 1,000 square feet), instead of being based
on a percentage of net building area.  This provides consistency with other commercial use
allowances, which are also based on FAR.  This paragraph is also being amended to clarify that this
allowance for small amounts of accessory commercial uses is in addition to the limited commercial
use allowances provided in locations along Civic and Neighborhood Corridors.  Outside of these
corridor locations, accessory commercial uses would continue to be allowed.  Accessory commercial
uses, which are intended to be internal to a building for use primarily by residents, have rarely been
included as part of recent new development.  Accessory commercial uses are usually part of large
multi-dwelling buildings and sometimes consist of small snack or gift shops.
The new FAR-based approach, on a 20,000 square foot site, would allow two accessory commercial
uses, each up to 1,000 square feet, for a total of 2,000 square feet of commercial use.  This is the
same amount that would be allowed under current regulations for a 40,000 square foot building on a
20,000 square foot lot (this equates to the size of building allowed by the base FAR in the RM3
zone [2 to 1]), for which the 5 percent of net building area calculation would allow for 2,000 square
feet of accessory commercial use.

C. Accessory auto servicing in the RH and RX zones
This regulation, allowing fuel sales and minor repair and washing of automobiles as an accessory use,
is not used and is being deleted. No similar allowance is provided for residential development in the
commercial/mixed use zones.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 43
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.110 Accessory Uses
Uses that are accessory to a primary use are allowed if they comply with all regulations for that use and
all applicable development standards. In addition, some specific accessory uses have additional
requirements as indicated below.
A. Accessory home occupations, accessory dwelling units, and accessory short-term rentals.
Accessory uses to a primary use are allowed if they comply with all development standards.
Accessory home occupations, accessory dwelling units, and accessory short-term rentals have
specific regulations in Chapters 33.203, 33.205, and 33.207 respectively.
B. Accessory commercial uses in the RH zone. Accessory commercial uses in multi-dwelling
buildings in the RH zone are allowed in order to provide convenient support services to the
residents of the building and to encourage a reduction in auto trips. They are an incidental use
to the main residential use of the site.
1. Uses allowed. Accessory commercial uses are limited to those in the Retail Sales And
Service and Office use categories.
2. Structure types. Accessory commercial uses are allowed only in multi-dwelling buildings.
Uses must be located entirely within the building and have no external doors. They may
be located in basements.
3. Size. The accessory commercial uses are limited to 5 percent of the overall net building
area on the site.
4. Reduction in dwelling units. Development of accessory commercial uses may not result in
the reduction of the number of existing dwelling units.
5. Signs. Accessory commercial uses may not have signs that are visible from the exterior of
the structure.
C. Accessory auto servicing in the RH and RX zones. Parking structures which are accessory to a
multi-dwelling building may contain auto support facilities which provide services for the autos
of the building’s residential tenants. They are an incidental use to the main residential use of
the site.

Commentary

Page 44 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.120 Nuisance-Related Impacts
This section is essentially a cross reference and is being deleted.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 45
 Zoning Code Amendments
1. Activities allowed. Accessory auto servicing is limited to fuel sales, minor repair, and
washing of autos.
2. Structure types. The uses are allowed only in enclosed or underground
parking structures.
3. Signs. The uses may not have signs that are visible from the exterior of the structure.
33.120.120 Nuisance-Related Impacts
A. Off-site impacts. All nonresidential primary and accessory uses must comply with the standards
of Chapter 33.262, Off-Site Impacts.
B. Vehicles. The regulations for operable vehicles and for vehicle service and repair are stated in
33.266.150, Vehicles in Residential Zones. The open accumulation and storage of inoperable,
neglected, or discarded vehicles is regulated by Section 29.20.010 of Title 29, Property and
Maintenance Regulations.
C. Animals. Nuisance-type impacts related to animals are regulated by Title 13, Animals. Title 13 is
enforced by the County Health Officer.
D. Other nuisances. Other nuisances are regulated by Section 29.20.010 of Title 29, Property and
Maintenance Regulations.

Commentary

Page 46 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
Table 120-1
Multi-Dwelling Zone Primary Uses

See previous commentary on the amendments to the Use Regulations regarding changes to this
table.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 47
 Zoning Code Amendments
Table 120-1
Multi-Dwelling Zone Primary Uses

Use Categories

R3

RM1 R2

RM2 R1

RM3 RH

RM4

RX

RMP
Residential Categories
Household Living Y Y Y Y Y Y Y
Group Living L/CU [1] L/CU [1] L/CU [1] L/CU [1] L/CU [1] L/CU [1] N
Commercial Categories
Retail Sales And Service  L [12] L [122] L [122] L CU[2] L [2] L/CU [32] L[1311]
Office N NL [2] NL [2] L CU[2] L [2] L/CU [32] N
Quick Vehicle Servicing  N N N N N N N
Vehicle Repair N N N N N N N
Commercial Parking N N N N N CU [43] N
Self-Service Storage N N N N N N N
Commercial Outdoor Recreation N N N N N N N
Major Event Entertainment N N N N N N N
Industrial Categories
Manufacturing And Production N N N N N N N
Warehouse And Freight Movement  N N N N N N N
Wholesale Sales N N N N N N N
Industrial Service N N N N N N N
Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminal N N N N N N N
Railroad Yards N N N N N N N
Waste-Related N N N N N N N
Institutional Categories
Basic Utilities L/CU [10] L/CU
[109]
L/CU
[109]
L/CU
[109]
L/CU [9] L/CU[109] L/CU[109]
Community Service L/CU [6] L/CU [65] L/CU [65] L/CU [65] L/CU [5] L/CU [54] L/CU [65]
Parks And Open Areas L/CU [7] L/CU [76] L/CU [76] Y Y Y L/CU [76]
Schools CU CU CU CU CU L/CU [54] CU
Colleges CU CU CU CU CU CU CU
Medical Centers CU CU CU CU CU CU CU
Religious Institutions CU CU CU CU CU CU CU
Daycare L/CU [8] L/CU [87] L/CU [87] L/CU [87] L/CU [7] Y L/CU [87]
Other Categories
Agriculture L [11] L [1110] L [1110] L [1110] L [10] L [10] L [1110]
Aviation And Surface Passenger
Terminals
N N N N N N N
Detention Facilities N N N N N N N
Mining N N N N N N N
Radio Frequency Transmission
Facilities
L/CU [9] L/CU [98] L/CU [98] L/CU [98] L/CU [8] L/CU [98] L/CU [98]
Rail Lines And Utility Corridors CU CU CU CU CU CU CU
Y = Yes, Allowed
CU = Conditional Use Review Required
L = Allowed, But Special Limitations
N = No, Prohibited
Notes:
 The use categories are described in Chapter 33.920.
 Regulations that correspond to the bracketed numbers [ ] are stated in 33.120.100.B.
 Specific uses and developments may also be subject to regulations in the 200s series of chapters.

Commentary

Page 48 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
Table 120-2
Housing Types Allowed In The Multi-Dwelling Zones

This table is being modified to remove the R3 zone, which is being combined with the R2 zone into
the new RM1 zone. Two additional housing types, “triplex” and “fourplex, are being added, as these
small-scale housing types are being differentiated from multi-dwelling structures (see pages 240-
241), which will also be consistent with proposals in the Residential Infill Project to identify these
as distinct housing types with specific zoning code regulations.

The table is being corrected to show Group Structures as an allowed structure type, given that the
associated use, Group Living, is allowed by right for up to 15 residents in the multi-dwelling zones.
The current reference to Group Structures only being allowed in conjunction with a conditional use
is incorrect (see 33.120.100.B.1).

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 49
 Zoning Code Amendments
Development Standards
33.120.200 Housing Types Allowed
A. Purpose. A broad range of housing types are allowed in the multi-dwelling zones. This range
allows for efficient use of land, provides options to increase housing variety and housing
opportunities, and promotes affordable and energy-efficient housing.
B. Housing types. The types of housing allowed in the multi-dwelling zones are stated in Table
120-2.

Table 120-2
Housing Types Allowed In The Multi-Dwelling Zones
Housing Type R3 RM1R2 RM2R1 RM3RH RM4 RX RMP
House Yes Yes  Yes  Yes  Yes  Yes  No
Attached House
(See 33.120.270 C.)
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No
Accessory dwelling unit
 (See 33.205)
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No
Duplex Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No
Attached Duplex
 (See 33.120.270.F)
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No
Triplex  Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No
Fourplex  Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No
Multi-Dwelling Structure  Yes [1] Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No
Multi-Dwelling Development Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes [21]
Manufactured Dwelling
(See Chapter 33.251)
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes [32]
Manufactured Dwelling Park
(See Chapter 33.251)
Yes Yes No No No No Yes
Houseboat
(See Chapter 33.236)
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No
Single Room Occupancy (SRO) units No No Yes Yes Yes Yes No
Group Living Facility  Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No
Group Structures Only when in conjunction with an approved conditional use.
See also Chapter 33.239.
Yes = allowed; No = prohibited.
Notes:
[1] Multi-dwelling development is limited to no more than eight units per building.
[21] The only type of multi-dwelling development allowed in the RMP zone is manufactured dwellings in a
manufactured dwelling park.
[32] Except on individual lots created under the provisions of 33.642, Land Divisions of Manufactured Dwelling Parks,
manufactured dwellings are only allowed in manufactured dwelling parks.

Commentary

Page 50 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.205 Development on Lots and Lots of Record

No substantial changes to this section.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 51
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.205210 Development on Lots and Lots of Record
A. Purpose. The regulations of this section require lots and lots of record to be an adequate size
so that development on a site will in most cases be able to comply with all site development
standards, including density. Where more than one lot is in the same ownership, these
standards prevent breaking up large vacant ownerships into small lots, which are difficult to
develop in conformance with the development standards. However, where more than one lot
is in the same ownership, and there is existing development, allowing the ownership to be
separated may increase opportunities for residential infill while preserving existing housing.
B. Where these regulations apply. These regulations apply to existing lots and lots of record in
the multi-dwelling zones. The creation of new lots is subject to the lot size standards listed in
Chapter 33.612, Lots in Multi-Dwelling Zones.
C. Ownership of multiple lots and lots of record. Where more than one abutting lot or lot of
record is in the same ownership, the ownership may be separated as follows:
1. If all requirements of this Title will be met after the separation, including lot
dimensionssize, minimum density, and parking, the ownership may be separated; or
2. If one or more of the lots or lots of record does not meet the lot dimensionsize standards
in Chapter 33.612, Lots in Multi-Dwelling Zones, the ownership may be separated if all
requirements of this paragraph are met. Such lots and lots of record are legal.
a. There is a primary use on at least one of the lots or lots of record, and the use has
existed since December 31, 1980. If none of the lots or lots of record have a primary
use, they may not be separated; and
b. Lots or lots of record with a primary use on at least one of them may be separated as
follows:
(1) The separation must occur along the original lot lines;
(2) Lots or lots of record with primary uses on them may be separated from lots or
lots of record with other primary uses; and
(3) Lots or lots of record with primary uses on them may be separated from lots or
lots of record without primary uses.
D. New development on standard lots and lots of record. New development on lots and lots of
record that comply with the lot dimensionsize standards in Chapter 33.612, Lots in Multi-
Dwelling Zones, is allowed by right subject to the development standards.
E. New development on substandard lots and lots of record. New development is allowed on
lots and lots of record which do not conform to the lot dimensionsize standards in Chapter
33.612, Lots in Multi-Dwelling Zones, if both of the following are met:
1. The development is proposed for a lot or lot of record. Development on plots that are not
lots or lots of record is prohibited; and
2. The lot or lot of record did not abut any property owned by the same family or business
on July 26, 1979, or any time since that date, unless the ownership was separated as
allowed in Subsection C, above.

Commentary

Page 52 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.206 Minimum Required Site Frontage for Development
This new section addresses issues related to barriers narrow sites in East Portland
present to the creation of new street connections and quality site design.  East Portland,
including centers with large areas of multi-dwelling zoning, has a lack of street
connections that makes it challenging for residents to reach local destination and
transit.  New development provides opportunities to create new street connections in
existing neighborhoods.  However, many lots in East Portland are too narrow to fit even a
partial street connection, resulting in no new connections when development occurs on
these sites.
This section also addresses issues related to poor site design outcomes on East
Portland’s narrow sites.  Properties in the multi-dwelling zones in East Portland are often
both narrow and very deep (sites 60-feet wide and 200-feet or more in depth are
common), making it difficult to achieve quality site design. Some of the problems with
East Portland’s narrow sites are:
 Driveways and other vehicle areas often occupy a large proportion of site area (20-
foot wide driveways are typically required for deep sites).
 Lack of space for street connections (38 feet is typically need for a half-street
connection).
 Little opportunity for buildings to be oriented to public streets.
 Limited room for usable outdoor spaces or for trees.
 Lack of efficiencies of scale and infrastructure.
In recognition of some of the design challenges related to development on East
Portland’s narrow sites, Comprehensive Plan Policy 3.94 calls for land in Eastern
Portland to be combined into larger sites before development occurs.
The requirements of this section will apply to sites with multi-dwelling zoning
located in the Jade District, 122nd/Hazelwood, Rosewood/Glenfair neighborhood
centers and in and around the Midway town center (see Map 120-2 on page 195).
The boundaries used for these areas are Comprehensive Plan center boundaries,
with the addition of areas around the Midway town center that were part of the
Division-Midway Neighborhood Street Plan (adopted October 2014).
Comprehensive Plan policies call for centers such as these to become well
connected places with quality design.  Within these areas, for multi-dwelling
zone sites more than 160-feet deep, the proposal requires a minimum street
frontage of 90 feet for development of new units to take place.  Exceptions
are provided for projects approved through a Planned Development Review or
that are surrounded by fully-developed properties.
This minimum street frontage width will provide enough space for a variety of
site configurations, more efficient site design and partial street connections
(if needed), as well as allow for driveways to take up less than a quarter of the
site width. While there are many benefits to larger sites, a tradeoff is that
requiring narrow sites to be combined adds time, cost, and complexity to
development.

 Graphics show a typical configuration of development on a 60’-wide site (much of site is
driveway), in contrast to options for better site design provided by the minimum 90’-wide
dimension, and a 120’-wide site resulting from combining two 60’-wide sites).
 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 53
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.206 Minimum Required Site Frontage for Development
A. Purpose. The purpose of the minimum required site frontage standard is to ensure that sites in
and around certain centers in Eastern Portland have sufficient street frontage and site area to:
 Accommodate new streets where pedestrian, bicycle and vehicular connectivity is lacking;
 Foster efficient site design;
 Allow for buildings with an orientation to the street; and
 Provide opportunities to create outdoor space and preserve trees.
B. Where the standard applies. The minimum required site frontage standard applies in the
multi-dwelling zones to sites shown on Map 120-2.
C. Minimum required site frontage standard.
1. Standard. If the site is more than 160 feet deep, new dwelling units are prohibited unless
the site has at least 90 feet of frontage on a street. Adjustments are prohibited.
2. Exceptions. The following exceptions apply:
a. Adding an accessory dwelling unit to a lot with an existing house, existing attached
house, existing manufactured home, or existing duplex is allowed;
b. Development is allowed on a site when all of the lots that share a side lot line with
the development site meets at least one of the following:
(1) The lot is zoned multi-dwelling and meets the minimum density standard for the
base zone;
(2) The lot is zoned multi-dwelling and has an existing multi-dwelling structure or
multi-dwelling development; or
(3) The lot is not zoned multi-dwelling; and
c. Development approved through a Planned Development Review is allowed. See
Chapter 33.270, Planned Development.

Commentary

Page 54 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
Table 120-3
Summary of Development Standards in Multi-Dwelling Zones
Amendments to this table reflect changes to the respective development standard regulations,
described in detail in each standard’s accompanying commentary.  See Appendix B for code
modeling of the development standards (also pages 102-105 for more information on building
coverage and FAR for the new RM2 zone).  Major changes reflected in the table include:
 Merging the R2 and R3 zones into the new RM1 zone.
 Splitting the RH zone into two new zones, RM3 and RM4, based on the two different FAR limits
that currently exist in this zone (with a RM4 base FAR of 3 to 1 FAR in historic districts).
 In the RM1 and RM2 zones (R2/R3, R1), moving from regulating development intensity by unit
density to instead basing this on building scale/FAR.
 New requirements for step-down height adjacent to single-dwelling zones.
 Requiring 10’ front setbacks in the RM2 (R1) and RM3 (RH) zones, to provide a better transition
to the characteristics of residential neighborhoods and to address privacy issues.
 Simplification of side and rear setbacks, applying a minimum 5’ setback in most situations.

Reasons for regulating by FAR instead
of unit density – RM1 & RM2 zones
Historically, low-rise, multi-dwelling
areas in Portland included a diversity of
“middle housing” types, such as duplexes,
fourplexes, townhouses and courtyard
apartments. These two- to three-story
housing types provide housing density at
a scale not much taller than single-family
houses. Many of these, however, could
not be built today in Portland’s low-rise
multi-dwelling zones (R2 and R1) because
they exceed unit density limits. Other
issues in these zones include:
 Density-based regulations in the R2
zone often limit development to townhouse-type units, whose multiple levels and stairs are not
accessible to people with mobility limitations.
 The lack of housing unit variety also limits the range of affordability levels.
 In the R1 zone, often located along transit corridors and allowing four-story buildings, density
regulations similarly limit housing options, even in transit-rich locations.
“Middle housing” refers to a wide variety of multi-unit housing types at a low-rise
scale. Once common, this variety is not possible in today’s zones. For example,
while all of the above examples are within the 2-3 story scale allowed in the R2
zone, only the duplex would be allowed under current unit-based regulations.
R1 zone development
Old and new buildings along transit
corridors. Similar scale, but the
older apartments accommodate
more households (but could not be
built under current density-based
regulations).
 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 55
 Zoning Code Amendments
Table 120-3
Summary of Development Standards in Multi-Dwelling Zones

Standard

R3

RM1 R2

RM2 R1

RM3 RH

RM4

RX

RMP
Maximum FARDensity
(See 33.120.210205)
1 unit per
3,000
sq. ft. of
site area

1 unit per
2,000
sq. ft. of site
area
FAR of
1 to 1
1 unit per
1,000
sq. ft. of
site area
FAR of
1.5 to 1
FAR of
2 to 1
or
4 to 1

FAR of
4 to 1
or 3 to 1

FAR of
4 to 1

NA1 unit
per 1,500
sq. ft. of site
area
Maximum Density
(See 33.120.212)
 none none none none none 1 unit per
1,500 sq. ft.
of site area
Maximum Density with
InclusionaryAffordable Housing Bonus
(See 33.120.212205.F)
1 unit per
2,400
sq. ft. of
site area

NA1 unit per
1,600 sq. ft.
of site area

NA1 unit
per 800 sq.
ft. of site
area

NAFAR of
2.5 to 1
or
5 to 1 [1]
NA NAFAR of
5 to 1
1 unit per
1,000 sq. ft
Minimum Density
(See 33.120.213205)
1 unit per
3,750 sq.
ft. of site
area
1 unit per
2,500 sq. ft.
of site area
1 unit per
1,450 sq.
ft. of site
area
1 unit per
1,000 sq. ft.
of site area
1 unit per
1,000 sq.
ft. of site
area
1 unit per
500 sq. ft.
of site area
1 unit per
1,875 sq. ft
of site area
MaximumBase Height
(See 33.120.215)
35 ft. 4035 ft. 25/45 ft.

25/65 ft.
75/100 ft.
75/100 ft. 100 ft. 35 ft
Step-down Height (see 33.120.215.B.2
- Within 25 ft. of lot line abutting RF-
R2.5 zones
- Within 15 ft. of lot line across a local
service street from RF – R2.5 Zones

35 ft.

35 ft.

35 ft.

35 ft.

35 ft.

35 ft.

35 ft

45 ft.

45 ft.

45 ft.

45 ft.

35 ft.
Minimum Setbacks
- Front building setback
- Street building setback
- Side and rear building
setback.

Garage entrance
setback
(See 33.120.220)

10 ft.
- -
See Table
120-4

18 ft.

10 ft.
- -
5 ft. [1]
See Table
120-4
18 ft.

10 3 ft.
3 ft.
5 ft. [1]
See Table
120-4
5/18 ft.

10 0 ft.
0 ft.
5/10 ft. [1]
See Table
120-4
5/18 ft.

5 ft.

5/10 ft. [1]

5/18 ft.

0 ft.
0 ft.
0 ft.

5/18 ft.

10 ft.
- -
10 ft.

18 ft.
Maximum Setbacks
(See 33.120.220)
 Transit Street or
 Pedestrian District

20 ft.

20 ft.

20 ft.

20 ft.

10 ft.

10 ft
.

NA
Max. Building Coverage
(See 33.120.225)
45% of site
area
50% of site
area
60%/70%
of site area
85% of site
area
85% of site
area
100% of
site area
50% of site
area
Max. Building Length
(See 33.120 230)
No Yes Yes No No No Yes
Min. Landscaped Area
(See 33.120.235)
35% of site
area
30% of site
area
20% of site
area
15% of site
area
15% of site
area
none 30% of site
area
Required Outdoor Areas
(See 33.120.240)

Yes

Yes

Yes

YesNo

Yes

No

See 33.251
Notes:
[1] See 33.120.220.B.2 for Eastern Pattern Area special rear building setback.If the base FAR is 2 to 1 then the maximum with
bonus is 2.5 to 1. If the base FAR is 4 to 1, then the maximum with bonus is 5 to 1.

Commentary

Page 56 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.210 Floor Area Ratio
This new section reflects a shift from regulating development intensity in the RM1 (R2/R3) and
RM2 (R1) zones by unit density to instead basing this on building scale, regulated by floor area
ratios (FAR). This approach will bring consistency with the FAR-based approach currently used in
the RH and RX zones, and in the commercial/mixed use zones. This approach provides greater
flexibility in the number and mix of housing units, while providing greater certainty in the allowed
scale of development.  The following illustrates differences between the proposed FAR-based
approach compared to the current R2 and R1 unit density regulations.
B.  FAR Standard. The standard allows structured parking, required bicycle parking, and indoor
common areas to not count against FAR limits (consistent with regulations in the commercial/mixed
use zones).  These exemptions allow for these features to not result in the loss of housing potential
and works in conjunction with other proposals to limit surface parking and encourage indoor common
areas.  The base FAR in the RM4 zone in historic districts is 3 to 1 (instead of the 4 to 1 FAR that
applies outside historic districts) to be responsive to the scale of historic districts (see additional
commentary on page 60).
D.  Transfer of FAR
The new language includes the following changes to existing regulations (existing code on page 79):
 Adds an option for transfers in exchange for preservation of existing affordable housing units.
 Adds an option to allow transfers in exchange for tree preservation.
 Amends the historic transfers to allow transfers from contributing resources in Historic Districts and
Conservation Districts (consistent with the commercial/mixed uses zones).
 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 57
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.210 Floor Area Ratio
A. Purpose. Floor area ratios (FARs) regulate the amount of use (the intensity) allowed on a site.
FARs provide a means to match the potential amount of uses with the desired character of the
area and the provision of public services. FARs also work with the height, setback, and building
coverage standards to control the overall bulk of development.
B. FAR standard. The maximum floor area ratios are stated in Table 120-3 and apply to all uses and
development. In the RM4 zone the maximum FAR is 4 to 1, except in Historic Districts and
Conservation Districts, where the maximum FAR is 3 to 1. Floor area ratio is not applicable in
the RMP zone. There is no maximum limit on the number of dwelling units within the allowable
floor area, but the units must comply with all building and housing code requirements.
Additional floor area may be allowed through bonus options described in Section 33.120.211,
or transferred as described in Subsection D. Maximum FAR does not apply to one alteration or
addition of up to 250 square feet when the alteration or addition is to a primary structure that
received final inspection at least 5 years ago. This exception is allowed once every 5 years.
Adjustments to the maximum floor area ratios are prohibited. Floor area does not include the
following:
1. Floor area for structured parking and required long-term bicycle parking not located in a
dwelling unit, up to a maximum FAR of 0.5 to 1; and
2. Floor area for indoor common area used to meet the requirements of Section 33.120.240.
C. Maximum increase in FAR. An increase in FAR using bonuses and transfers of more than is
stated in Table 120-5 is prohibited. This total FAR includes FAR transferred from another site,
and any additional FAR allowed from bonus options.
D. Transfer of FAR. FAR may be transferred from one site to another subject to the following:
1. Sending site. FAR may be transferred from:
a. A site where all existing dwelling units are affordable to those earning no more than 60
percent of the area median family income. In order to qualify for this transfer, the
applicant must provide a letter from the Portland Housing Bureau certifying that this
affordability standard and any administrative requirements have been met. The letter
must be submitted before a building permit can be issued for the development, but is not
required in order to apply for a land use review.;
b. A site where trees that are at least 12 inches in diameter are preserved. The
maximum amount of floor area that may be transferred for each preserved tree is
indicated in Table 120-4, however the maximum amount of FAR that can be transferred
may not exceed the total amount of unused FAR on the site. This transfer provision does
not apply to dead, dying or dangerous, or nuisance trees. To qualify for this transfer, a
report is required from the City Forester or a certified arborist documenting that the
trees to be preserved are not nuisance trees and are not dead, dying or dangerous.; or

Commentary

Page 58 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.210.D. Transfer of FAR (continued)
Affordable housing preservation (subparagraph 1.a.).  This new provision is intended to serve as
an incentive for the preservation of existing affordable housing.  It would allow for unused
development capacity to be transferred to other sites, in exchange for the preservation of existing
affordable housing units.  The existing affordable housing units would need to remain affordable
for households earning no more than 60 percent of MFI.  The Housing Bureau would be involved in
certifying compliance (the details of the term of affordability will be determined by the Housing
Bureau, but will be for a minimum of 30 years from the date of the FAR transfer).
Tree preservation (subparagraph 1.b.).  This new provision is intended to serve as an incentive for
tree preservation. While Title 11 (Trees) requires that at least one third of large trees (12 inches
or larger in diameter) must be preserved, development proposals in the multi-dwelling zones
typically choose to instead use an option to pay into the Tree Planting and Preservation fund instead
of preserving existing larger trees due to the complexities of preserving trees in conjunction with
higher-density development.  The new FAR transfer provision would allow for unused development
capacity to be transferred to other sites with multi-dwelling zoning in exchange for preserving
large trees.  The amount of development potential (floor area) that could be transferred is related
to the size and number of preserved trees and the allowed density of the site where the trees are
being preserved (see Table 120-4). The amounts of transferable floor area are related to the size
of the root protection zones required for different diameters of trees, and varies by the FAR of
the site where the tree preservation is taking place to reflect the deferred development potential.
The tree diameter classifications in Table 120-4 are based on those currently used for the tree
preservation bonus. This FAR transfer allowance will replace an existing tree preservation
development bonus, which allows for additional housing density on the same site where trees are
preserved.  The existing bonus has been rarely used (only twice over the past 10 years), because of
difficulties of both preserving trees and fitting additional units on the same site.  For the new
transfer allowance, determination of the status or condition of trees is by the City Forester in a
non-development situation, and by a certified arborist in a development situation.
Historic preservation (subparagraph 1.c.) - additional FAR transfer allowance for seismic
upgrades. Amendments to this transfer provision will allow an additional amount of FAR (beyond the
amount of unused development capacity), equivalent to 50 percent of the base FAR, to be
transferred to other sites, but use of this additional increment of transferable FAR will only be
available in conjunction with seismic upgrades.  This is intended to provide an incentive for seismic
upgrades to historic buildings by helping to defray the costs of these upgrades.  This regulation
uses an existing provision that applies in the Central City, but will extend it to multi-dwelling and
mixed use zones citywide (see also 33.130.205 in Volume 3).  The need for seismic upgrades to
unreinforced masonry buildings (URMs) is an especially important issue for Portland’s historic
resources, as nearly 600 historic buildings are URMs – often brick - and seismic upgrades are
costly.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 59
 Zoning Code Amendments
c. A site that contains a Historic or Conservation landmark or a contributing resource in
a Historic or Conservation district. Sites that are eligible to send floor area through
this transfer are allowed to transfer:
(1) Unused FAR up to the maximum FAR allowed by the zone; and
(2) An additional amount equivalent to 50 percent of the maximum FAR for the
zone. To qualify to transfer this additional amount of FAR, the Bureau of
Development of Services must verify that the landmark or contributing resource
on the site meets one of the following:
 If the building is classified as Risk category I or II, as defined in the Oregon
Structural Specialty Code, it has been shown to meet or exceed the
American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) 41- BPOE improvement standard
as defined in City of Portland Title 24.85;
 If the building is classified as Risk category III or IV, as defined in the Oregon
Structural Specialty Code, it has been shown to meet or exceed the ASCE41-
BPON improvement standard as defined in City of Portland Title 24.85; or
 The owner of the landmark or contributing resource has entered into a
phased seismic agreement with the City of Portland as described in Section
24.85.

Commentary

Page 60 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.210.D. Transfer of FAR (continued)
All the FAR transfer provisions will allow for FAR to be sent to a receiving site with multi-dwelling or
commercial/mixed use zoning citywide (except the Central City, which has separate FAR transfer
provisions).  This is a change from existing FAR transfer regulations, which are currently limited to a
two-mile transfer distance.  This is being done to increase the feasibility of FAR transfers by increasing
the numbers of potential receiving sites.  Staff anticipate that FAR transfers will only be used by
relatively small projects, since buildings with 20 or more units qualify for inclusionary housing
development bonuses and will not be able to receive additional FAR from transfers. FAR transfers are
generally prohibited from being used on receiving sites where a historic resource has been demolished to
prevent the additional FAR from serving as an incentive for demolition of historic resources.  An
exception is provided for sites where a historic resource has been demolished through demolition review,
which for National Register Historic Districts and Landmarks requires review by City Council and is
rarely approved (this limitation is intended to help protect locally-designated Conservation Districts and
landmarks, which are not subject to demolition review and are potentially more vulnerable to
redevelopment pressures – this topic will be more fully considered as part of the upcoming Historic
Resources Code Project).
33.120.210.B – FAR standard (continued from page 56)
RM4 FAR in historic and conservation districts
In the RM4 zone in historic and conservation districts, the base FAR will be 3 to 1 and the bonus FAR will
be 4.5 to 1 (instead of the RM4 base and bonus FARs of 4:1 and 6:1 that will apply outside of historic
districts).  Consistent with City policies that call for continuity with the characteristics of historic
districts, these base and bonus FARs will allow new development similar to the scale of larger historic
buildings in historic districts proposed for RM4 zoning (primarily the Alphabet and King’s Hill historic
districts).  The bonus FAR of 4.5 to 1, achievable through the inclusionary housing bonus that is
mandatory for buildings with 20 or more units, will allow development that is a little larger than the base
4:1 FAR that currently applies in the larger-scale RH zoning that is being replaced by the RM4 zone.
The deeper housing affordability bonus in the RM4 zone in historic and conservation districts will
provide a bonus of up to 6:1 (this bonus will be available for projects in which at least half of the units
are affordable to households earning no more than 60 percent of median family income to prioritize
affordable housing as an outcome – see pages 64-65).

Right. Range of base and bonus FARs in the RM3 and RM4
zones (current zone is RH for all).
Below. In the RM4 zone in historic districts, base and bonus
FARs of 3:1 and 4.5 to 1 will match the range of larger historic
multi-dwelling buildings in historic districts, such as these
examples in the Alphabet and King’s Hill historic districts.
Larger scale will be allowed through the deeper affordability
bonus for buildings in which at least half of units are
affordable.
 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 61
 Zoning Code Amendments
2. Receiving site. The transfer must be to a site zoned RM1, RM2, RM3, RM4, RX, CM1, CM2,
CM3, or CE outside of the Central City plan district. Transferring to a site zoned RMP is
prohibited. Transferring to a site where a Historic or Conservation Landmark or a
contributing structure in a Historic or Conservation District has been demolished within
the past ten years is prohibited unless the landmark or contributing structure was
destroyed by fire or other causes beyond the control of the owner, the only structure on
the site that was demolished was an accessory structure, or the demolition was approved
through demolition review.
3. Maximum increase in FAR. An increase in FAR on the receiving site of more than 1 to 1
from a transfer is prohibited. In addition, the total FAR on the receiving site, including FAR
from transfers and bonuses, may not exceed the overall maximum FAR with other
bonuses stated in Table 120-5.
4. Covenants. The property owner must execute a covenant with the City that meets the
requirements of Section 33.700.060 and is attached to, and recorded with, the deeds of
both the site transferring and the site receiving the density. The covenant must reflect the
respective increase and decrease of potential FAR. In addition:
a. The covenant for the historic resource transferring the density must also meet the
requirements of 33.445.610.D., Covenant.
b. The covenant for the site where trees will be preserved must:
(1) Require that all trees be preserved for at least 50 years; and
(2) Require that any tree covered by the covenant that is dead, dying or dangerous
be removed and replaced within a 12-month period. The trees must be
determined to be dead, dying, or dangerous by the City Forester or a certified
arborist. If a tree covered by the covenant is removed in violation of the
requirements of this Section, or is dead, dying, or dangerous as the result of a
violation, Tree Review is required.
Table 120-4
Transferable Floor Area for Tree Preservation in Multi-Dwelling Zones
Diameter of Tree Preserved
Transferable Floor Area for Each Tree (by zone)
RM1 RM2 RM3 RM4 & RX
12 to 19 inches 1,000 sq. ft.  1,500 sq. ft. 2,000 sq. ft. 4,000 sq. ft.
20 to 35 inches 2,000 sq. ft. 3,000 sq. ft. 4,000 sq. ft. 8,000 sq. ft.
36 inches or greater  4,000 sq. ft. 6,000 sq. ft. 8,000 sq. ft. 16,000 sq. ft.

Commentary

Page 62 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.211 Floor Area Bonus Options
This new section includes development bonuses for affordable housing, moderate-income family
housing, and visitable units. The proposed regulations limit the total amount of FAR that can be
added to a site, from both transfers and from development bonuses, to an amount equivalent to 50
percent beyond the base FAR (see Table 120-5).  An exception is provided for projects using the
special bonus for deeper housing affordability, which could receive a 100 percent increase in FAR.
Development bonuses are generally prohibited from being used on sites where a historic resource
has been demolished to prevent bonus FAR from serving as an incentive for demolition of historic
resources.  An exception is provided for sites where a historic resource has been demolished through
demolition review, which provides protection for National Register Historic Districts and Landmarks but
does not apply to locally-designated Conservation Districts and landmarks, which are potentially more
vulnerable to redevelopment pressures (see also Transfer of FAR commentary on page 60).
Table 120-5 (Summary of Bonus FAR) indicates the amount of bonus FAR available for projects
utilizing the bonus options.
For the inclusionary housing bonus, the proposed bonus FARs amount to 50 percent more FAR than
provided by the base FARs for each zone.  The current inclusionary housing bonus provides only 25
percent additional development intensity, compared to the more than 60 percent bonus provided for
inclusionary housing projects in the commercial/mixed use zones.  The existing relatively small
bonus for inclusionary housing limits the ability to provide an attractive incentive for affordable
housing units, especially for buildings with fewer than 20 units that are not required to provide
affordable housing.  The 50 percent bonus would bring greater consistency with the inclusionary
housing bonus provided in the commercial/mixed use zones and would increase the feasibility of
projects that include affordable housing (see Appendix C for a feasibility analysis of the proposed
base and bonus FARs).  Projects using this bonus need to meet inclusionary housing requirements
for 20 percent of units to be affordable to those earning no more than 80 percent of median family
income (MFI), or 10 percent of units affordable at 60 percent of MFI.
The Maximum FAR with other bonuses. These figures amount to 50 percent more FAR than
provided by the base FAR for each zone.  For smaller projects not subject to mandatory
inclusionary housing, this additional FAR can be achieved through voluntary inclusionary housing, or
through transfers of FAR from sites where historic resources, trees, or existing affordable
housing are being preserved, potentially in combination with the bonus for three-bedroom units or
visitable units.
Code modeling examples of base and bonus FARs for the RM1 (R2/R3) and RM2 (R1) zones

RM2 Bonus - 2.25:1 FAR RM2 Base - 1.5:1 FAR
RM1 Base - 1 :1 FAR RM1 Bonus - 1.5:1 FAR
See Volume 1 and Appendix B for graphics showing base and bonus FARs for more of the multi-dwelling zones.
 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 63
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.211 Floor Area Bonus Options
A. Purpose and description. The bonus options allow additional floor area as an incentive for
development that includes affordable housing, family-sized units, or units that are physically
accessible to people of all abilities. The bonus options are designed to allow additional
development intensity in a manner that is consistent with the purposes of the multi-dwelling
zones.
B. General floor area bonus regulations.
1. The floor area bonus options in this section are only allowed in the RM1, RM2, RM3, RM4,
and RX zones outside the Central City and Gateway plan districts. Sites where a Historic or
Conservation Landmark or a contributing structure in a Historic or Conservation District
has been demolished within the past ten years are not eligible to use bonus options unless
the landmark or contributing structure was destroyed by fire or other causes beyond the
control of the owner, the only structure on the site that was demolished was an accessory
structure, or the demolition was approved through demolition review.
2. More than one bonus may be used up to the overall maximum per site stated in Table
120-5. Adjustments to the maximum amount of floor area obtainable through bonuses are
prohibited.
3. The increment of additional FAR allowed per bonus is stated in Table 120-5 and described
in Subsection C.
4. The bonus option standards must be met in full to receive the bonus.

Table 120-5
Summary of Bonus FAR
 RM1 RM2 RM3 RM4 & RX
Overall Maximum Per Site [1]
Maximum FAR with deeper housing
affordability bonus
(see 33.120.211.C.2)
2 to 1 3 to 1 4 to 1 7 to 1 or
6 to 1 [3]

Maximum FAR with other bonuses [2]  1.5 to 1 2.25 to 1 3 to 1

6 to 1 or
4.5 to 1 [3]
Increment of Additional FAR Per Bonus
Inclusionary Housing
(see 33.120.211.C.1)
0.5 to 1

0.75 to 1

1 to 1

2 to 1 or
1.5 to 1 [3]

Deeper Housing Affordability
(see 33.120.211.C.2)
1 to 1 1.5 to 1 2 to 1 3 to 1
Three-Bedroom Units
(see 33.120.211.C.3)
0.25 to 1

0.4 to 1

0.5 to 1

1 to 1 or
0.75 to 1 [3]

Visitable Units
(see 33.120.211.C.4)
0.25 to 1

0.4 to 1

0.5 to 1

1 to 1 or
0.75 to 1 [3]

[1] Overall maximum FAR includes FAR received from a transfer.
[2] Other bonuses are the Inclusionary Housing, Three-Bedroom Units, and Visitable Units bonuses.
[3] The lower FAR applies in the RM4 zone in Historic and Conservation districts.

Commentary

Page 64 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
C. Bonus options

1. Inclusionary housing bonus option. Except for the amount of additional FAR provided, these
regulations are essentially unchanged from what was adapted as part of the Inclusionary Housing
Zoning Code Project, although most regulatory details and standards are now in Chapter 33.245
(Inclusionary Housing). Former text for the Inclusionary Housing development bonus are shown as
crossed-out text on pages 75 to 77.  The primary change to the inclusionary housing bonus provision
is the amount of additional FAR provided for qualifying projects (see pages 60 to 61).

2. Deeper housing affordability bonus option. To qualify for this new voluntary bonus, projects
will generally need to have at least 50 percent of units on the site affordable to households earning
no more than 60 percent of MFI, a significantly greater amount and level of affordability than
required by inclusionary housing.  In combination with related amendments to Title 30 (Affordable
Housing), this bonus provides an affordable home ownership option for projects in which at least
half of the units are ownership units affordable to households earning no more than 80 percent of
MFI.  This provision provides a development bonus allowing 100 percent additional FAR and also
allows additional height and building coverage for qualifying projects to accommodate this greater
FAR (code modeling of the proposed development standards indicate that base regulations for
parameters such as building height, coverage and setbacks provide enough capacity for a 50 percent
FAR increase, but cannot accommodate a 100 percent increase).
Staff anticipate that this bonus will primarily be used by affordable housing developers, rather than the
larger number of profit-dependent development projects.  The minimum required percentage of 50
percent will allow developments to include some market-rate units to help offset the costs of the
affordable units and allow for income diversity.  Both this bonus and the standard inclusionary housing
bonus will involve the Housing Bureau in administration (administrative rules will require rental units to
remain affordable for a term of 99 years and ownership units to be affordable for 10 years).  Unlike the
inclusionary housing provisions, this bonus will not provide options for locating the affordable units off
site or for payment into the Affordable Housing Fund.

3. Three-bedroom unit bonus option (page 67).  This development bonus is a refinement of the
existing bonus for three-bedroom units. It will provide 25 percent additional FAR for projects in
which at least 50 percent of units have three bedrooms and are affordable to households earning
no more than 100 percent of MFI. This affordability level is intended to encourage moderate-
income family housing, a segment of the housing spectrum not addressed by the other affordable
housing development bonuses. The existing three-bedroom bonus has no income restrictions, which
does not address the current shortage of family-sized units affordable to low- and moderate-
income households, especially in areas close to services.
The term of affordability for this bonus is for a shorter period than the other bonuses (10 years). This
responds to affordable housing developers’ concerns that this bonus would not work for their ownership
housing projects if it required permanent or long-term affordability. A goal of some affordable
ownership housing programs is to provide opportunities for minority and lower-income households to gain
equity through homeownership. The Housing Bureau will be involved in certifying projects as qualifying
for this development bonus.
Amenity bonuses
This floor area bonuses section replaces the current array of nine amenity bonuses (see pages 133-139).
The existing amenity bonuses are mostly being discontinued to prioritize affordable housing and
accessibility as outcomes of the bonuses, or have been replaced by other regulatory approaches, such as
new requirements for outdoor spaces and common areas.
 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 65
 Zoning Code Amendments
C. Bonus options.
1. Inclusionary housing bonus option. Maximum FAR may be increased as stated in Table
120-5 if one of the following is met:
a. Mandatory inclusionary housing. Bonus FAR is allowed up to the maximum with
inclusionary housing bonus stated in Table 120-5 for development that triggers the
requirements of 33.245, Inclusionary Housing. To qualify for this bonus, the applicant
must provide a letter from the Portland Housing Bureau certifying that the
regulations of 33.245 have been met; or
b. Voluntary inclusionary housing. Bonus FAR is allowed up to the maximum with
inclusionary housing bonus stated in Table 120-5 when one of the following
voluntary bonus options is met:
(1) Bonus FAR is allowed for projects that voluntarily comply with the standards of
33.245.040 and 33.245.050. To qualify for this bonus, the applicant must
provide a letter from the Portland Housing Bureau certifying that the
regulations of 33.245 have been met. The letter must be submitted before a
building permit can be issued for the development, but is not required in order
to apply for a land use review; or
(2) Bonus FAR is allowed in exchange for payment into the Affordable Housing
Fund. For each square foot of floor area purchased a fee must be paid to the
Portland Housing Bureau (PHB). The Portland Housing Bureau collects and
administers the Affordable Housing Fund and determines the fee. PHB
determines the fee per square foot and updates the fee at least every three
years. The fee schedule is available from the Bureau of Development Services.
To qualify for this bonus, the applicant must provide a letter from PHB
documenting the amount that has been contributed. The letter is required to be
submitted before a building permit can be issued for development but is not
required in order to apply for a land use review.
2. Deeper housing affordability bonus option. Bonus FAR is allowed up to the maximum with
deeper housing affordability bonus as stated in Table 120-5 when at least 50 percent of all
the dwelling units on the site are affordable to those earning no more than 60 percent of
area median family income or an affordability level established by Title 30. Projects taking
advantage of this bonus are also allowed an additional 10 feet of base height and an
additional 10 percent of building coverage beyond the limits for the zone stated in Table
120-3. To qualify for this bonus the applicant must provide a letter from the Portland
Housing Bureau certifying that the development meets the affordability requirement of
this bonus and any administrative requirements of the Portland Housing Bureau. The
letter must be submitted before a building permit can be issued for the development but
is not required in order to apply for a land use review.

Commentary

Page 66 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
4. Visitable units bonus option.  This voluntary bonus provides 25 percent additional FAR for
projects in which at least 25 percent of units meet building code standards for visitable or
accessible units.  This bonus helps implement Comprehensive Plan policies (including policies 5.8, 5.9,
and 5.19) that call for a diverse supply of physically-accessible housing that can meet the needs of
people of all ages and abilities.  The building code has requirements for physically accessible or
adaptable units, but these standards do not apply to attached houses, townhouses and other multi-
level unit types, which are a large portion of development in the multi-dwelling zones.  To qualify for
this bonus, units would need to be designed to meet building code requirements for visitable or
adoptable units, as follows:
Type C visitable units.  Housing types usually built under the residential building code, such as
houses, attached houses, duplexes, and multi-level multifamily units such as townhouses, would need
to meet building code standards for Type C visitable units. Type C units are not included in the
Oregon Structural Specialty Code, but are in International Code Council (ICC) standards intended
to serve as guidelines for housing types not covered by the Fair Housing Act (such as 1 to 3 unit
dwellings).  The Type C standards are designed to provide for some level of accessibility for unit
types that often have more than one level (building code standards for Type A and Type B
accessible units are designed for single-level units).  To use this bonus, qualifying units will need at
least 200 square feet of living area on the on the same level as the unit entrance and must meet
Type C standards that require:
 No step, barrier free access to the unit (maximum slope of 1:20 or 1:12).
 A bathroom with a sink and toilet (with wall reinforcement for grab bars).
 Doorway clearances of 31¾ inches.
 Lighting controls at an accessible level (no higher than 4 feet).
Type A accessible/adoptable units.  To qualify for the bonus, single-level units in multi-dwelling
structures (typically built under the commercial building code) would need to meet building code
standards for Type A units.  Currently, the building code requires multifamily buildings with single-
level units to design all units at ground level or that are accessed by elevators to meet Type B unit
standards, which are intended to accommodate access for people with mobility limitations but do
not have requirements for large clearances that work better for people in wheelchairs.  Standards
for Type A units include requirements for a higher-level of accessibility, with greater clearances
and accessibility features to accommodate wheelchair users in bathrooms and kitchens (the building
code only requires 2 percent of units on sites with more than 20 units to be Type A units).  Linking
qualification for this bonus to Type A units is intended to provide an incentive for multi-dwelling
projects to include greater numbers of the more accessible Type A units.
Using references to building code standards to qualify for this bonus is intended to facilitate
implementation, as it will allow BDS building code staff – already familiar with such standards – to
use their expertise to review proposals and also provides a way for commercial building code
structures to use the bonus.  The alternative approach of having visitability standards as zoning
code regulations, because they differ from building code standards, would need to be reviewed by
BDS land use planning staff, who do not have the same expertise in reviewing the interior features
of units.  Differences between the RIP zoning code visitability standards and Type C unit standards
are that the RIP visitability standards have less stringent standards for entrance access slope, do
not have requirements for wall reinforcement for grab bars or for location of light controls, but
have more stringent requirements for bathroom maneuvering space and doorway widths.
 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 67
 Zoning Code Amendments
3. Three-bedroom unit bonus option. Bonus FAR is allowed up to the maximum with three-
bedroom unit bonus as stated in Table 120-5 if at least 50 percent of the dwelling units on
the site have at least three bedrooms and are affordable to those earning no more than
100 percent of the area median family income. To qualify for this bonus, the applicant must
provide a letter from the Portland Housing Bureau certifying that the required three-
bedroom units meet the affordability requirement of this bonus and any administrative
requirements of the Portland Housing Bureau.
4. Visitable units bonus option. Bonus FAR is allowed up to the maximum with visitable units
bonus as stated in Table 120-5 when at least 25 percent of all the dwelling units on the site are
built to either Type A or Type C standards as described below. The property owner must
execute a covenant with the City that meets the requirements of Section 33.700.060 and
ensures that the features required by the Type A or Type C standards cited below are retained
for the life of the dwelling unit:
a. Dwelling units in houses, attached houses, duplexes, attached duplexes, triplexes,
fourplexes, and multi-level dwelling units in multi-dwelling structures or multi-dwelling
development must meet the requirements for Type C visitable units in ICC A117.1 (2009
Edition) and must have at least 200 square feet of living area on the same floor as the
main entrance;
b. Other types of dwelling units must meet the requirements for Type A units as defined in
the Oregon Structural Specialty Code.

Commentary

Page 68 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments

33.120.212 Maximum Density
This section is being modified to only apply to the RMP zone, which is the only multi-dwelling zone
that will have a maximum density standard.  Development intensity in other multi-dwelling zones will
be controlled by FAR, not unit density (see commentary regarding Floor Area Ratio, page 56).

The RMP zone affordable housing bonus option and density transfer provisions are existing
allowances, but have been moved within this reconfigured code section.

Note regarding high-density projects with small units.  Some public comments on the Discussion
Draft expressed concern that an FAR-based approach will result in development with inappropriate
densities of very small units and asked for setting limits on the numbers of small units or setting a
maximum density.  Staff analyzed recent development in the RH zone (currently regulated by FAR
with no maximum density) and found that projects with micro-units or other very small units have
not become a predominant development type on small sites in most areas with this zoning.  One
constraint that the proposed code amendments would place on large numbers of very small units on
a small site are new requirements for outdoor space.  The more units included in project, the more
outdoor space needs to be provided.  Recent projects developed with high densities of very small
units on small sites had been built under zoning allowances that did not require any residential
outdoor space (primarily in the mixed use zones or in the RH zone).  This will not be the case with
the proposed multi-dwelling zoning code regulations.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 69
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.205212 Maximum Density
A. Purpose. The maximum number of dwellings per unit of land, the maximum density, is
controlled in the RMP zone so that housing can match the availability of public services and the
availability of support commercial areas. The standards also allow the housing density to be
matched with the carrying capacity of the land. In addition, the density standards areis used as
one type of control of overall building bulk. In areas with the highest level of public services,
the minimum density standards ensure that the service capacity is not wasted and that the
City's housing goals are met. The bonus density options allow additional floor area as an
incentive for providing affordable housing.
B. Maximum density. The maximum densityies for the RMP zonemulti-dwelling zones areis stated
in Table 120-3. There is no maximum density for any other multi-dwelling zone. In the RH zone
the maximum FAR is 4 to 1 in the areas shown on Maps 120-2 through 120-19. In all other RH
zoned areas the maximum FAR is 2 to 1. All new housing built, or converted from other uses,
must be on sites large enough to comply with the density standards. The number of units
allowed on a site is based on the presumption that all site development standards will be met.
The allowed density is not a special right that justifies adjusting other development standards.
C. RMP zone affordable housing bonus option. In the RMP zone, maximum density can be
increased up to the maximum with RMP affordable housing bonus stated in Table 120-3 when
at least 50 percent of all of the dwelling units on the site are affordable to those earning no
more than 60 percent of area median family income. To qualify for this bonus the applicant
must provide a letter from the Portland Housing Bureau certifying that the development meets
the affordability requirement of this bonus and any administrative requirements of the
Portland Housing Bureau. The letter must be submitted before a building permit can be issued
for development, but is not required in order to apply for a land use review.
D. Transfer of density.
1. Density may be transferred from a site zoned RMP to a site zoned RM1, RM2, RM3, or
RM4 outside of the Central City plan district. When density will be transferred from a site
zoned RMP, one dwelling unit is equal to 800 square feet of floor area. Transfers of
density or FAR to a site zoned RMP is prohibited.
2. The property owner must execute a covenant with the City that is attached to, and
recorded with, the deed of both the site transferring and the site receiving the density
reflecting the respective increase and decrease of potential density. The covenant for the
receiving site must meet the requirements of Section 33.700.060.

Commentary

Page 70 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.213 Minimum Density
This section is being amended to focus on minimum density, since maximum development intensity in
most multi-dwelling zones will be regulated by FAR.  Maximum density regulations are being
retained only for the RMP zone and have been moved to a separate section (see previous pages).
Unit-based minimum densities will be retained for each zone (see Table 120-3 on page 55).
Currently, regulations allow units to be added to existing development without having to meet the
minimum density requirements.  This is being changed so that most development of additional
residential buildings on a site must meet minimum density requirements.  This helps ensure that
more development will meet the intended development intensities of the multi-dwelling zones.  It
would prevent a situation common on the deep sites of East Portland, in which houses are preserved
and multiple new houses added to rear portions of sites, sometimes significantly underbuilding
intended densities of multi-dwelling zones.  The amendments provide flexibility by allowing for a
small reduction in minimum density when units are being added to a site with an existing building
(minimum density is reduced by two units).  This helps with the preservation of existing residential
buildings, such as houses, by allowing a small reduction in minimum density to accommodate the
footprint of a preserved house, while ensuring that the density achieved is not much lower than the
intended densities.
The reduced minimum density allowance for the R1 zone is being deleted to reflect the new RM2
zone’s intended role as a relatively high-density zone.  Also, the current allowance has little impact
on small sites, while other BHD proposals give flexibility for sites when units are being added to
existing buildings.  Both the standard minimum density (1 unit per 1,450 sq. ft.) and the reduced
minimum density (1 unit per 2,000 sq. ft.) result in a minimum density on a 5,000 sq. ft. site of 3
units; while the reduced minimum density standard required 4 units on a 7,500 sq. ft. site compared
to the usual minimum density standard requirement of a minimum of 5 units on such a site.
Related amendments to the Nonconforming Situations chapter (see 33.258 on page 203) also
provide flexibility when adding new units to a site with exiting development, such as for adding:
accessory dwelling units, other types of units within an existing building, and manufactured dwelling
units in the RMP zone.
Left: Example of proposed development in the R1 zone in the Division/Midway Town Center. This project proposed the addition
of new detached houses to a property with two existing houses, missing minimum density by 18 units. Although this does not
meet minimum density requirements, it is currently allowed as it comes closer to conformance with required density.
Right: Multi-Dwelling housing that reflects the intended development intensity of the R1 zone.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 71
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.213 Minimum Density
A. Purpose. The minimum density standards ensure that the service capacity is effectively utilized
and that the City's housing goals are met. The standards also ensure that incremental
development will not preclude the ability to meet the intended development intensity of the
zoning of a site.
BC. Minimum density. The minimum density requirements for the multi-dwelling zones are stated
in Table 120-3. Land within an Environmental zone may be subtracted from the calculation of
minimum density. A site that is nonconforming in minimum density may not move further out
of conformance with the minimum density standard. However, units may be added to the site
that bring the site closer to conformance without coming all the way into conformance.
1. If units are being added to a site with an existing building with residential units, the
minimum density is reduced by two units.
12. In the R3, R2, and RMP zones, if maximum density is two units then minimum density is
two units. If maximum density is one unit, minimum density is one unit.
2. In the R1 zone, if the site is less than 10,000 square feet in area, the minimum density is 1
unit per 2,000 square feet.
3. On sites where trees that are 12 or more inches in diameter are proposed for
preservation, minimum density may be reduced as follows:
a. The maximum allowed reduction in minimum density is shown in Table 120-56.

Commentary

Page 72 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.213 Minimum Density (continued)

33.120.213.B.3 and Table 120-6
Reduction in Minimum Residential Density from Tree Preservation
No substantial change to this table or accompanying regulatory text, except for table number. Also,
for terms related to tree health, changes replace reference to “diseased” with “dying” to more
accurately convey the intent of the regulations and to bring consistency with language used
elsewhere in the zoning code.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 73
 Zoning Code Amendments
b. When this provision is used to reduce density, the owner must execute a covenant
with the City.  The covenant is not required if the site is also part of a proposed Land
Division.  The covenant must:
(1) Require that all trees used to reduce the minimum density be preserved for at
least 10 years;
(2) Allow trees used to reduce the minimum density that die, are dying, or become
diseased or dangerous to be removed and replaced within the 10 year
preservation period.  The trees must be determined to be dead, dying diseased,
or dangerous by an arborist, and a Title 11 tree permit must be obtained.  If a
tree used to reduce the minimum density is dead, dying diseased, or dangerous
as the result of a violation, Tree Review is required; and
(3) The covenant must meet the requirements of Section 33.700.060 and be
recorded before a development permit is issued.

Table 120-56
Reduction in Minimum Residential Density from Tree Preservation
Required Minimum Residential
Density
No. of 12-Inch Trees To Be
Preserved
Reduction of Minimum
Residential Density
Up to 7 units 1 1
8-12 units 1 1
 2 or more 2
13-17 units 1 1
 2 2
 3 or more 3
18 or more units 1 1
 2 2
 3 3
 4 or more 4

Commentary

Page 74 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
Floor area ratio
These paragraphs have been replaced by the new Floor Area Ratio section (33.120.210).  See page
57.

Bonus density or FAR
The components of this regulation have been moved to the new Floor Area Bonus Options section
(33.120.211) and to Chapter 33.245 (Inclusionary Housing).

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 75
 Zoning Code Amendments
D. Floor area ratio. The floor area ratio (FAR) states the amount of floor area allowed. There is no
maximum limit on the number of dwelling units within the allowable floor area, but the units
must comply with all building and housing code requirements. The FAR also includes any
nonresidential uses that are allowed. Minimum density requirements may also apply.
E. Maximum increase in density or FAR. In the RH and RX zones, an increase in FAR through the
use of bonuses and transfers of more than 3 to 1 is prohibited. In all other multi-dwelling
zones, an increase in the number of units through the use of bonuses, including amenity
bonuses, and transfers of more than 100 percent is prohibited. The maximum allowed increase
is calculated based on maximum density without inclusionary housing bonus.
F. Bonus density or FAR. The following density and FAR bonus options are allowed in the R3
through RMP zones. Adjustments to this Subsection, or to the amount of maximum density or
floor area allowed through the bonuses in this Subsection, are prohibited. Amenity bonuses
described in 33.120.265 may allow additional bonus density:
1. Inclusionary housing bonus option. The inclusionary housing bonus option applies in the
R3-RX zones.
a. Mandatory inclusionary housing. Bonus density or FAR is allowed up to the maximum
with inclusionary housing bonus stated in Table 120-3 for development that triggers
the requirements of 33.245, Inclusionary Housing. To qualify for this bonus, the
applicant must provide a letter from the Portland Housing Bureau certifying that the
regulations of 33.245 have been met.
b. Voluntary inclusionary housing. Bonus density or FAR up to the maximum with
inclusionary housing bonus stated in Table 120-3 is allowed when one of the
following voluntary bonus options is met:
(1) Bonus density or FAR is allowed for projects that voluntarily comply with the
standards of 33.245.040 and 33.245.050. To qualify for this bonus, the applicant
must provide a letter from the Portland Housing Bureau certifying that the
regulations of 33.245 have been met. The letter is required to be submitted
before a building permit can be issued for development, but is not required in
order to apply for a land use review; or
(2) Bonus density or FAR is allowed in exchange for payment into the Affordable
Housing Fund. For each square foot of floor area purchased a fee must be paid
to the Portland Housing Bureau (PHB). For sites where density is calculated in
dwelling units, the amount of floor area purchased is converted to dwelling
units at a rate of 1 dwelling unit per 800 square feet. The Portland Housing
Bureau collects and administers the Affordable Housing Fund, and determines
the fee. PHB determines the fee per square foot and updates the fee at least
every three years. The fee schedule is available from the Bureau of
Development Services. To qualify for this bonus, the applicant must provide a
letter from PHB documenting the amount that has been contributed. The letter
is required to be submitted before a building permit can be issued for
development, but is not required in order to apply for a land use review.

Commentary

Page 76 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments

Bonus density or FAR (continued)
The RMP affordable housing bonus option has been moved to 33.120.212 (see page 69).

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 77
 Zoning Code Amendments
2. RMP zone affordable housing bonus option. In the RMP zone, maximum density can be
increased up to the maximum with RMP affordable housing bonus stated in Table 120-3
when at least 50 percent of all of the dwelling units on the site are affordable to those
earning no more than 60 percent of area median family income. To qualify for this bonus
the applicant must provide a letter from the Portland Housing Bureau certifying that the
development meets this affordability standard and any administrative requirements of the
Portland Housing Bureau. The letter must be submitted before a building permit can be
issues for development, but is not required in order to apply for a land use review.

Commentary

Page 78 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
Transfer of density or FAR
The components of this regulation have been moved to the new Floor Area Ratio section
(33.120.210).  Provisions that allowed transfers of development intensity between properties on a
block are being deleted in order to prioritize transfers that involve preservation of historic
resources, affordable housing, and large trees.  See commentary and code on pages 56-59.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 79
 Zoning Code Amendments
G. Transfer of density or FAR. Density or FAR may be transferred from one site to another subject
to the following:
1. Calculating the amount of density or FAR transferred. In the R3, R2, R1, and RMP zones,
transferable density is calculated in terms of dwelling units. In the RH and RX zones,
transferable density is calculated by FAR.
2. Development standards. Buildings on sites receiving transferred density or FAR must meet
the development standards of the base zone, overlay zone, or plan district, except for
maximum density, which is regulated by Subsection E.
3. General standards for transfers of density or FAR.
a. Except for transfers from the sites of Landmarks and transfers from sites zoned RMP,
the transfers may be only between sites within a block or between sites that would
be abutting except for a right-of-way.
b. Density or FAR from the site of a Landmark may be transferred to any site allowed by
Paragraph G.4 below, within the recognized neighborhood where the Landmark is
located, or to any site within two miles of the Landmark.
c. Density from a site zoned RMP may be transferred to any site allowed by Paragraph
G.4.d below, that is located outside the Central City plan district.
4. Zoning.
a. RX Zone. In the RX Zone:
(1) Transfer of commercial development rights is regulated by Subparagraph
33.120.100.B.3.f;
(2) Density or FAR may be transferred from a site zoned RX to a site zoned RX, RH,
CX, or EX. Density may be transferred from the site of a Landmark zoned RX to a
site zoned RX, RH, C, or EX.
b. RH Zone. Density or FAR may be transferred from a site zoned RH to a site zoned RX
or RH. Density may be transferred from the site of a Landmark zoned RH to a site
zoned RX, RH, or EX.
c. R3, R2, and R1 Zones. Density may be transferred among sites zoned R3, R2,
and R1.
d. RMP zone. Density may be transferred from a site zoned RMP to a site zoned R3, R2,
R1, or RH. When density will be transferred from a site zoned RMP to a site zoned
RH, one dwelling unit is equal to 800 square feet of floor area.
5. Covenants. The property owner must execute a covenant with the City that is attached to
and recorded with the deed of both the site transferring and the site receiving the density
reflecting the respective increase and decrease of potential density. The covenant for the
receiving site must meet the requirements of Section 33.700.060. The covenant for the
Landmark transferring the density must meet the requirements of 33.445.610.D.,
Covenant.

Commentary

Page 80 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.215 Height
The primary changes to this section are:
 New requirements for step down height for sites
abutting single-dwelling zones.  This will require taller
buildings in the multi-dwelling zones (RM2 [R1] through
RX) to step down in scale when located next to single-
dwelling zones, with building heights limited to 35 feet
(three stories) within 25 feet of properties with single-
dwelling zoning.  A building height step down will also
apply on street frontages across local service streets or
across alleys from single-dwelling zoning.  Because the
transition to single-dwelling zones in this situation takes place across a street, this step down
height across a local service street would be to 45 feet, limiting development to being one story
taller than the three-story height allowed in the R2.5 single-dwelling zone.  These changes bring
consistency with the regulatory approach that applies to similarly-scaled buildings in the
commercial/mixed use zones.
 The existing allowance for 100-foot building height in the RM4 zone (former RH) within 1,000
feet of transit stations is being expanded to also apply within 500-feet of frequent transit
lines.  This expanded allowance for 100-foot building height will not be allowed in historic or
conservation districts (in historic or conservation districts, this height will only be allowed close
to transit stations due to the greater priority for more intense development in such locations).
This additional height is not accompanied by increased FAR, which will provide opportunities for
buildings to be taller and less boxy than would be the case for buildings limited to 75-foot
heights when built to the proposed RM4 base and bonus FARs of 4 to 1 and 6 to 1.  The
expanded allowance for 100-foot building height will increase the amount of land area where
this height is allowed from the current 25 acres to a total of 78 acres.
 Amendments eliminate regulations that limited building height in the R1 and RH zones to 25
feet within 10 feet of front property lines, as 10-foot front setbacks are being proposed for
these zones.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 81
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.215 Height
A. Purpose. The height standards serve several purposes:
 They promote a reasonable building scale and relationship of one residence
to another;
 They promote options for privacy for neighboring properties; and
 They reflect the general building scale of multi-dwelling development in the City's
neighborhoods.
B. Maximum hHeight standard.
1. Base height. The maximumbase heights allowed in the multi-dwelling zones are stated in
Table 120-3. The maximum height standard for institutional uses is stated in 33.120.275,
Development Standards for Institutions. The maximum height standards for detached
accessory structures are stated in 33.120.280, Detached Accessory Structures. In the RM4
zone the base height is 75 feet, except as follows:
a. On sites that are not within a Historic or Conservation district but are within 500 feet
of a transit street with 20-minute peak hour service the base height is 100 feet; and
b. On sites within 1,000 feet of a transit station the base height is 100 feet, including on
sites that are within a Historic or Conservation district.
2. Step-down height. In the following situations, the base height is reduced, or stepped-
down:
a. On the portion of a site within 25 feet of a lot line abutting a site zoned RF through
R2.5, the step-down height is 35 feet. See Figure 120-1. Sites with property lines that
abut a single-dwelling zone for less than a 5-foot length are exempt from this
standard; and
b. On the portion of the site within 15 feet of a lot line that is across a local service
street or alley from a site zoned RF through R2.5 the following step-down height
limits apply. The limits do not apply to portions of buildings within 100 feet of a
transit street.
(1) The step-down height is 45 feet for sites in the RM2, RM3, RM4, and RX zones.
(2) The step-down height is 35 feet for sites in the RM1 and RMP zones.
1. In the R1 zone the maximum height is 45 feet, except on the portion of a site within 10
feet of a front property line, where the maximum height is 25 feet.
2. In the RH zone, the following maximum height limits apply:
a. Where the FAR is 2 to 1, the maximum height is 65 feet, except on the portion of a
site within 10 feet of a front property line, where the maximum height is
25 feet.
b. Where the FAR is 4 to 1, the maximum height is 75 feet, except on sites within 1,000
feet of a transit station, where the maximum height is 100 feet.

Commentary

Page 82 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
C. Exceptions to the maximum height

These changes bring consistency with similar regulations recently adopted for the
commercial/mixed use zones.

Paragraph 2.  Allowances for parapets to exceed building height limits responds to community
interest (as well as input from designers and developers) in promoting a more varied roofline. The
current regulatory approach of including such features within the building height limits results in
projects built up to this maximum height with little variation.  The parapet exemption also
facilitates the use of parapets to screen rooftop equipment.

The exemption for roof top deck railings to exceed maximum heights is intended to facilitate roof
top outdoor spaces, which complements new requirements for residential outdoor space that could
be accommodated in such locations for higher-density development.

Paragraph 3.  Exceptions for privacy walls to exceed maximum heights are intended to facilitate
roof top outdoor spaces, as well as decks adjacent to upper-level building areas with required
height step downs adjacent to residential zones.  Privacy walls exceeding height limits are not
allowed within 4 feet of roof edges in order to limit their visual impact.  This regulation is
consistent with regulations in the commercial/mixed use zones (these standards had been adapted
from Main Street Corridor Overlay regulations that had been applicable to SE Division Street).

Historic example of parapets
providing roofline variety.
 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 83
 Zoning Code Amendments
Figure 120-1
Step-Down Height Adjacent to Single-Dwelling Zones

C. Exceptions to the maximum height.
1. Chimneys, vents, flag poles, satellite receiving dishes, and other similar items attached to
a building, with a width, depth, or diameter of 53 feet or less may extend above the height
limit, as long as they are attached to a building and do not exceed 5 feet above the top of
the highest point of the roof. If they are greater than 53 feet in width, depth, or diameter,
they are subject to the height limit.
2. Parapets and railings. Parapets and rooftop railings may extend 4 feet above the height
limits.
3. Walls and fences. Walls or fences located between individual rooftop decks may extend 6
feet above the height limit provided that the wall or fence is set back at least 4 feet from
the edges of the roof.
42. Rooftop mechanical equipment and stairwell enclosures that provide rooftop access may
extend above the height limit as follows, provided that the equipment and enclosures are
set back at least 15 feet from all roof edges on street facing facades.
a. Elevator mechanical equipment may extend up to 16 feet above the height
limit; and
b. Other mechanical equipment and stairwell enclosures that cumulatively cover no
more than 10 percent of the roof area may extend up to 10 feet above the
height limit.

Commentary

Page 84 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
Table 120-4
Minimum Side and Rear Setbacks for R3, R2, R1, and RH Zones
This table is being deleted to reflect new regulatory approaches to side and rear setbacks (see
Table 120-3 on page 55 for specific setback requirements), including:

 In most situations, side and rear setbacks are being standardized to 5-foot minimum setbacks
(as applies in single-dwelling zones).  Existing setback standards (which vary in depth from 5 to
14 feet, depending on size of building wall planes) are complex and make development on small
sites difficult.  This change is also intended to facilitate development on small sites that can
continue neighborhood patterns and provide room for more usable outdoor space, such as
central courtyards, elsewhere on sites.

 A 10-foot side and rear setback will apply in the RM3 and RM4 (RH) zones for buildings taller
than 55 feet to limit impacts on adjacent properties. This height corresponds to the height at
which discretionary design review is required in these zones, which will allow for modifications
to this standard to be considered as part of design review.

Special Eastern Pattern Area minimum rear building setback (subparagraph B.2, next page).  This
new regulation, applicable to the Eastern neighborhoods pattern area (primarily east of 82nd
Avenue, see Map 120-3 on page 197) requires a rear setback equal to 25 percent of the depth of
lots. This is responsive to the area’s large blocks and community interest in continuing some of the
area’s mid-block characteristics, such as rear yards and tree groves.  Exemptions are provided for
sites up to 100 feet deep and for corner sites (sites providing a new street connection will typically
be exempt), and for projects providing large common areas, such as a central courtyard, elsewhere
on the site.  The Staff Report (Volume 1, see pages 48-52) provides additional information on the
rationale for this proposed requirement.

New approach: development arranged to provide a deep
setback at rear of site (same housing unit sizes and density
as current approach example)
Current approach: development extends to
rear of site
Graphics compare the 5-foot setback
required in single-dwelling zones (left)
to the gradient of required setbacks
that currently apply in the multi-
dwelling zones (right), which leaves
less space for housing, even for
buildings similar in scale to what is
built in single-dwelling zones.
 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 85
 Zoning Code Amendments
53. Antennas, utility power poles, and public safety facilities are exempt from the
height limit.
64. Small wind turbines are subject to the standards of Chapter 33.299.
75. Roof mounted solar panels are not included in height calculations, and may exceed the
maximum height limit as follows:if the following are met:
a. For flat roofs or the horizontal portion of mansard roofs, theythe roof mounted solar
panel may extend up to 5 feet above the top of the highest point of the roof.
b. For pitched, hipped, or gambrel roofs, theythe roof mounted solar panel must be
mounted no more than 12 inches from the surface of the roof at any point, and may
not extend above the ridgeline of the roof. The 12 inches is measured from the upper
side of the solar panel.

Table 120-4
Minimum Side and Rear Setbacks for R3, R2, R1, and RH Zones
If the area of the plane of the building wall
is: [1]
The required side and rear setback is:
1,000 sq. ft. or less  5 ft.
1,001 to 1,300 sq. ft.  6 ft.
1,301 to 1,600 sq. ft.  7 ft.
1,601 to 1,900 sq. ft.  8 ft.
1,901 to 2,200 sq. ft  9 ft.
2,201 to 2,500 sq. ft. 10 ft.
2,501 to 2,800 sq. ft. 11 ft.
2,801 to 3,100 sq. ft. 12 ft.
3,101 to 3,400 sq. ft. 13 ft.
3,401 sq. ft. or greater  14 ft.
Note:
[1] Measurement of the area of the plane of the building wall is described in Chapter 33.930,
Measurements.
33.120.220 Setbacks
A. Purpose. The building setback regulations serve several purposes:
 They maintain light, air, separation for fire protection, and access for fire fighting;
 They reflect the general building scale and placement of multi-dwelling development in the
City's neighborhoods;
 They promote a reasonable physical relationship between residences;
 They promote options for privacy for building residents and neighboring properties;
 They provide adequate flexibility to site a building so that it may be compatible with the
neighborhood, fit the topography of the site, allow for required outdoor areas, and allow
for architectural diversity;
 Setback requirements along transit streets create an environment that is inviting to
pedestrians and transit users; and
 They provide room for a car to park in front of a garage door without overhanging the
street or sidewalk, and they enhance driver visibility when backing onto the street.

Commentary

Page 86 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
B. Minimum building setbacks (see previous commentary for discussion on side and rear setbacks).

Front setbacks (Table 120-3 and subparagraph B.3)
In the RM2 and RM3 zones (R1 and RH), required front setbacks
are being increased to 10 feet (currently front setbacks are 3 feet
in the R1 zone and no setback is required in the RH zone).  This will
help integrate new development with established residential
neighborhood patterns, often characterized by a green edge of
front yards and gardens.  A 10-foot setback will also limit privacy
impacts to ground-level units and provide space for small trees
that contribute to greener street environments and help limit
urban heat island impacts.  Amendments also increase the front
setback in the more-intensely urban RM4 zone to 5 feet.
Exceptions would be provided for:
 Smaller setbacks to match adjacent existing buildings.
 Reduced front setback when ground floors are raised 2
feet above sidewalk level to limit privacy impacts.
 No setback when ground-floor commercial uses together with common
areas such as lobbies occupy at least half of the ground-floor street
frontage. This exemption would not be available in the RM1 (R2/R3) zone,
which is intended for greater compatibility with single-dwelling zones.
 Buildings with landscaped courtyards facing the street can have building
wings with reduced front setbacks (see page 89).
The courtyard option allows for reduced street setbacks (5 feet in the
RM1 zone, 0 feet in the RM2 and RM3 zones) when at least 25 percent
of the building (and a minimum length of 20 feet) is setback at least
40 feet from the street. Analysis of historic courtyard apartment
buildings found that the proportion of courtyard-to-building
along street frontages varies, although a common
configuration on sites 100-feet wide feature a pair of
building wings, each about 33-feet wide, flanking a courtyard
opening about 24-feet wide (this equals 27 percent of the
total building width of 90 feet) – see image of examples
below.

  The courtyard setback option would allow for the
continuation of a common courtyard housing
configuration, in which building wings are located
close to the sidewalk, but the large area of
courtyard landscaping contributes to a verdant
street frontage.
Pair of courtyard apartment buildings in southeast Portland.
The regulations allow smaller setbacks
to match adjacent properties.
Landscaped front setbacks can help continue
established neighborhood patterns, even with
higher-density developments.
 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 87
 Zoning Code Amendments
B. Minimum building setbacks. The required minimum building setbacks apply to all buildings and
structures on the site except as specified in this section. Where no street setback is indicated in
Table 120-3, the front, side, and rear setbacks apply. Where a street setback is indicated in
Table 120-3 it supersedes front, side, and rear setbacks if the front, side, or rear lot line is also a
street lot line. Setbacks for parking areas are in Chapter 33.266.
1. Generally. The required minimum building setbacks, if any, are stated in Tables 120-3 and
120-4. In the RM3 and RM4 zones, the minimum side and rear building setbacks apply as
follows:
a. Buildings that are up to 55 feet tall.  The required minimum side and rear building
setback for buildings that are up to 55 feet tall is 5 feet. Minor projections allowed by
Paragraph 33.120.215.C do not count toward this height measurement; and
b. Buildings more than 55 feet tall. The required minimum side and rear building
setback for buildings that are more than 55 feet tall is 10 feet from a side or rear lot
line that is not a street lot line, and 5 feet from a side or rear lot line that is a street
lot line.
2. Eastern Pattern Area minimum rear building setback.
a. Minimum rear building setback. In the RM1, RM2, RM3 and RM4 zones in the Eastern
Pattern Area the required minimum rear building setback is an amount equal to 25
percent of the total depth of the site. No more than 50 percent of the Eastern
Pattern Area rear setback can be vehicle area. The Eastern Pattern Area is shown on
Map 120-3.
b. Exemptions. The following are exempt from the Eastern Pattern Area minimum rear
building setback. When a site is exempt from the Eastern Pattern Area minimum rear
building setback, the base zone required minimum rear building setback stated in
Table 120-3 applies:
(1) Corner lots and lots that are up to 100 feet deep are exempt from the Eastern
Pattern Area minimum rear building setback; and
(2) Sites where at least 10 percent of the total site area is outdoor common area
and the common areas measure at least 30 feet in all directions are exempt
from the Eastern Pattern Area minimum rear setback.
32. Exceptions to the required building setbacks.
a. Setback matchingaveraging. The minimum front and side street building setbacks and
the setback of decks, balconies, and porches may be reduced, but not increased, to
the average of the respectiveto match the setbacks on anthe abutting lots. See
Chapter 33.930, Measurements, for more information.
b. Raised ground floor. In the RM2 and RM3 zones the minimum front building setback
may be reduced to 5 feet, and in the RM4 zone the minimum front and side street
building setbacks may be reduced to zero feet, for buildings where the finished floor
of ground floor residential units is at least 2 feet above the grade of the closest
adjoining sidewalk. This exception does not apply in the Eastern Pattern Area shown
on Map 120-3.

Commentary

Page 88 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
B. Minimum building setbacks
Exceptions to the required building setbacks (continued)
The new exceptions allowing reduced front setbacks will not be available in the Eastern Portland
Pattern Area.  This is intended is to be responsive to interest in East Portland in keeping the street
frontage of multi-dwelling development greener and more landscape-intensive, in keeping with
existing neighborhood characteristics.  This will also be consistent with Mixed Use Zone regulations
that require 10-foot front setbacks along civic corridors in East Portland (such as SE 122nd Avenue
or SE Division) in order to provide separation from the multiple lanes and traffic of these major
streets.
Subparagraph 3.i. This new setback exception is specific to the special Eastern Pattern area
minimum rear building setback.  The exception will allow buildings serving as indoor common area to
be located within this rear setback.  This responds to interest among East Portland community
members in having indoor community facilities located in conjunction with outdoor spaces.
A related regulation in the landscaping section (33.120.235.C, see page 121), requires that at least
half of the setback be landscaped.  This will allow other features, such as parking, to occupy the
other half of the setback area.  This works in conjunction with other regulations that limit parking
from being located toward the front of sites, while ensuring that at least half of this mid-block
setback area will include landscaping and trees.
Code modeling of this proposal indicates that this requirement will not prevent the scale of
development intended for multi-dwelling zones in East Portland (see Appendix B).

Example of an Eastern Portland multi-
dwelling development that includes a
mix of outdoor space, a community
building, and some surface parking
toward the rear of the site.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 89
 Zoning Code Amendments
c. Courtyard. Except in the Eastern Pattern Area shown on Map 120-3, the required
minimum front or side street setback may be reduced to zero in the RM2 and RM3
zones, and may be reduced to 5 feet in the RM1 zone when:
(1) At least 20 feet or 25 percent of the length of the street-facing building facade,
whichever is greater, is setback at least 40 feet from the street lot line;
(2) At least half of the area between the setback portion of the building and the
street lot line is landscaped to at least the L1 standard and the setback includes
no vehicle area; and
(3) The finished floor of the ground floor is at least 2 feet above the grade of the
closest abutting sidewalk.
d. Ground floor commercial. The required minimum front or side street setbacks may
be reduced to zero in the RM2, RM3 and RM4 zones when the ground floor includes
a commercial use and at least 50 percent of the length of the ground-floor street-
facing façade is in a commercial use or is an indoor common area, such as an indoor
recreation facility or community room. This exception does not apply in the Eastern
Pattern Area shown on Map 120-3.
eb. Environmental zone. The required minimum front and street building setback and
garage entrance setback may be reduced to zero where any portion of the site is in
an environmental overlay zone. Where a side lot line is also a street lot line the side
building and garage entrance setback may be reduced to zero. All other provisions of
this Title apply to the building and garage entrance.
fc. Split zoning. No setbacks are required from an internal lot line that is also a zoning
line on sites with split zoning.
gd. Alley. No side or rear building setback is required from a lot line abutting an alley.
he. Land divisions with existing development. When a dedication of public right-of-way
along the frontage of an existing street is required as part of a land division, the
minimum front or side setback between an existing building and a lot line that abuts
the right-of-way may be reduced to zero. Eaves on an existing building may extend
one foot into the reduced setback, except that they may not extend into the right-of-
way. Future additions or development must meet required minimum setbacks.
i. Eastern Pattern Area. In the Eastern Pattern Area, the footprint of buildings
containing only indoor common area, such as recreational facilities or tenant
community rooms, may cover up to 25 percent of the Eastern Pattern Area minimum
rear building setback. In this case, the building must be set back at least 5 feet from
the rear lot line.
j. Inner Pattern Area. In the RM2, RM3, and RM4 zones in the Inner Pattern Area, on
sites that abut a Civic or Neighborhood Corridor shown on Map 120-1, no setback is
required from a lot line that abuts a property that also has a lot line on a Civic or
Neighborhood Corridor. See Figure 120-2. However, windows in the walls of dwelling
units must be setback a minimum of 5 feet from a lot line that abuts another
property and this setback area must be a minimum width of 12 feet or the width of
the residential window, whichever is greater.

Commentary

Page 90 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.220.B Exceptions to the required building setbacks (continued)

Subparagraph 3.j - Inner Pattern Area along Civic and Neighborhood Corridors (see previous
page and Figure 120-2).  This new exception allows for zero setbacks between properties located
along Civic and Neighborhood corridors.  This allowance only applies in the Inner Pattern Area,
which has an established pattern of zero side setbacks between buildings along traditional main
streets.  Corridors in the Inner Pattern Area, such as SE Division and SE Belmont, often include an
interspersed mix of commercial and multi-dwelling zoning.  The intent of this exception is to allow
for a continuous frontage of buildings in both commercial and most multi-dwelling zones along Civic
and Neighborhood corridors, which are intended by Comprehensive Plan polices to be transit- and
pedestrian-oriented urban places.  A related setback exception in Chapter 33.130 allows for no
setbacks on properties in mixed use zones adjacent to multi-dwelling zone properties on these same
corridors (see pages 24-25 in Volume 3).  This exception does not allow for windows in residential
units to be closer to 5 feet from abutting properties to provide consistency with regulations in the
mixed use zones and to provide for access to light and air.  Properties in the RM1 zone are not
included in this setback exception because this lower-scale zone is intended to continue
characteristics of single-dwelling neighborhoods.

Setback exceptions in the Inner Pattern Area allow for zero setbacks between properties along Civic and
Neighborhood corridors in order to allow for a more continuous frontage of buildings along these important
corridors, which are typically well served by transit and commercial services.

C. Maximum building setbacks

The paragraph is being simplified to provide greater flexibility in building site design and for
consistency with similar standards recently adopted for the commercial/mixed use zones.  In some
situations, current regulations require 100 percent of building frontages to be located within the
maximum building setback.  The changes respond to community interest in courtyard housing and
other configurations that include open spaces along street frontages.  The requirement for at least
50 percent of building frontages to be within the maximum setback provides this flexibility, while
working together with other standards (requirements for street-oriented entrances, limitations on
front parking, etc.) to foster pedestrian-oriented street environments, and is consistent with
regulations in the commercial/mixed use zones.
 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 91
 Zoning Code Amendments
Figure 120-2
No setbacks between properties on Civic or Neighborhood Corridors

C. Maximum building setbacks.
1. Maximum bBuilding setbacks on a transit street or in a Pedestrian District. The required
maximum building setbacks, if any, are stated in Tables 120-3 and 120-4, and apply only to
buildings that are enclosed on all sides. The maximum building setbacks on a transit street
or in a Pedestrian District are as follows. At least 50 percent of the length of the ground
level street-facing façade of the building must meet the maximum building setback
standard:
a. Applying the standardMeasurement.
(1) Where an existing building is being altered, the standards apply to the ground
level, street-facing facade of the entire building. See Figures 120-13 and 120-24.
(2) Where there is more than one building on the site, the standards of this
paragraph apply to the combined ground level, street-facing facades of all the
buildings. See Figures 120-35 and 120-46.
(3) For buildings where all of the floor area is in residential use, the street-facing
facade of an open porch that meets the following standards is included as part
of the ground level, street-facing facade of the building:
 For houses, attached houses, manufactured homes and duplexes, the porch
must be at least 25 square feet in area. For multi-dwelling structures, the
porch must be at least 9 feet wide and 7 feet deep;
 The porch must have at least one entrance facing the street; and
 The porch must have a roof that is:
 No more than 12 feet above the floor of the porch; and
 At least 30 percent solid. This standard may be met by having 30
percent of the porch area covered with a solid roof, or by having the
entire area covered with a trellis or other open material if no more than
70 percent of the area of the material is open.

Commentary

Page 92 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
C. Maximum building setbacks (continued).

See previous commentary.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 93
 Zoning Code Amendments
b. Standards. There are two standards. Subparagraphs C.1.c. and d. specify where each
standard applies:
(1) Standard 1: At least 50 percent of the length of the ground level street-facing
facade of the building must be within the maximum setback;
(2) Standard 2: 100 percent of the length of the ground level street-facing facade of
the building must be within the maximum setback.
bc. Outside a Pedestrian District. Where the site is not in a Pedestrian District:
(1) One transit street. Where the site is adjacent to one transit street, the standard
of Standard 1 must be met on the transit street frontage;
(2) Two non-intersecting transit streets. Where the site is adjacent to two transit
streets that do not intersect:
 The Sstandard 1 must be met on the frontage of the street with the highest
transit classification. If both streets have the same highest classification, the
applicant may choose on which street to meet the standard;
 If one of the transit streets intersects a City Walkway, the Sstandard 1 must
be met along both the street with the highest transit classification and the
City Walkway;
(3) Two or more intersecting transit streets. Where the site is adjacent to two or
more intersecting transit streets, the Sstandard 2 must be met on the frontages
of the two streets with the highest transit classifications. and Standard 1 must
be met on an intersecting transit street. If more than two streets have the same
highest transit classification, the applicant may choose on which two streets to
meet the standard;
cd. In a Pedestrian District. Where the site is in a Pedestrian District, the maximum
building setback standard applies to all street frontages, with the following
exceptions:
(1) Through lots. If the site is a through lot, the maximum setback standard only
applies to the street with the highest transit street classification. If multiple
streets have the same highest transit street classification, the applicant may
choose on which street to apply the standard.
(2) Three or more street frontages. If the site has street lot lines on three or more
streets, the maximum setback standard only applies to two of the streets. When
this occurs, the standard must be applied to the streets with the highest transit
street classifications. If multiple streets have the same highest transit street
classification, the applicant may choose on which streets to apply the standard.

Commentary

Page 94 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
Figures 120-3 and 120-4

No changes, except to figure numbers.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 95
 Zoning Code Amendments

Figure 120-13
Alteration to Existing Building in Conformance with Maximum Setback Standard

Figure 120-24
Alterations to Existing Building

Commentary

Page 96 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
Figures 120-5 and 120-6

No changes, except to figure numbers.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 97
 Zoning Code Amendments
Figure 120-35
Calculating Maximum Building Setback When More Than One Building On Site

Figure 120-46
New Buildings on Sites with Buildings That Do Not Meet the Maximum Building Setback

Commentary

Page 98 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
C. Maximum building setbacks (continued)

See previous commentary on page 90.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 99
 Zoning Code Amendments
(1) One street frontages. Where the site is adjacent to only one street, Standard 1
must be met on that street frontage;
(2) Through lot with one transit street. Where the site is a through lot and one
frontage is a transit street and one is a non-transit street, standard 1 must be
met on the frontage of the transit street;
(3) Through lot with two transit streets. Where the site is a through lot and both
frontages are on transit streets, Standard 1 must be met on the frontage of the
street with the highest transit classification. If both streets have the same
highest classification, the applicant may choose on which street to meet the
standard;
(4) Through lot with no transit streets. Where the site is a through lot and neither
frontage is on a transit street, Standard 1 must be met on one of the frontages.
The applicant may choose on which street to meet the standard;
(5) One transit street and one intersecting non-transit street. Where the site is
adjacent to a transit street and an intersecting non-transit street, the following
standards must be met:
 Standard 2 must be met on the frontage of the transit street,
 Standard 1 must be met on the intersecting non-transit street;
(6) Two or more intersecting transit streets. Where the site is adjacent to two or
more intersecting transit streets, the following standards must be met on the
frontage of the street with the highest transit classification and any intersecting
transit street:
 Standard 2 must be met on the frontage of the street with the highest transit
classification. If both transit streets have the same highest classification, the
applicant may choose on which street to meet the standard; and
 Standard 1 must be met on an intersecting transit street;
(7) Three or more frontages, two non-intersecting transit streets. Where the site
has three or more frontages, and two of them are transit streets that do not
intersect, the following standards must be met on the frontage of the street
with the highest transit classification and one intersecting street:
 Standard 2 must be met on the frontage of the street with the highest transit
classification. If both streets have the same transit classification, the
applicant may choose on which street to meet the standard; and
 Standard 1 must be met on an intersecting street;
(8) Two or more frontages, no transit streets, two or more intersecting streets.
Where the site has two or more frontages, none of them are transit streets, and
two or more of the streets intersect, the following standards must be met on
the frontage of one street and one intersecting street:
 Standard 2 must be met on the frontage of one street; and
 Standard 1 must be met on an intersecting street.

Commentary

Page 100 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
D. Extensions into required building setbacks

This paragraph is being modified in coordination with changes to the minimum side and rear building
setback requirements.  Because the required side and rear setbacks are being reduced to 5’ in most
cases, these changes prevent raised decks, stairways, balconies, and bay windows from extending
into required setbacks, except for setbacks along street lot lines, to limit privacy impacts.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 101
 Zoning Code Amendments
2. Exemptions.
a. Flag lots. Flag lots are exempt from the maximum setback standards of this section.
b. Detached accessory structures. Detached accessory structures are exempt from the
maximum setback standards of this section. The street-facing facades of detached
accessory structures do not count towards meeting maximum setback standards. See
Figure 120-35.
D. Extensions into required building setbacks.
1. The following features of a building may extend into a required building setback up to 20
percent of the depth of the setback, except as indicated. However, the feature must be at
least 3 feet from a lot line, except as allowed in 33.120.270, Alternative Development
Options:
a. Eaves, cChimneys, fireplace inserts and vents, mechanical equipment, and fire
escapes;
b. Wheelchair ramps, Wwater collection cisterns and stormwater planters that do not
meet the standards of Paragraph D.24;
c. Decks, stairways, wheelchair ramps, and uncovered balconies that do not meet the
standard for Paragraph 24 below, but only along a street lot line; and
d. Bays and bay windows but only along a street lot line and mustthat meet the
following requirements:
(1) Each bay and bay window may be up to 12 feet long, but the total area of all
bays and bay windows on a building facade cannot be more than 30 percent of
the area of the facade;
(2) At least 30 percent of the area of the bay which faces the property line requiring
the setback must be glazing or glass block; and
(3) Bays and bay windows must cantilever beyond the foundation of the building.;
and
(4) The bay may not include any doors.

Commentary

Page 102 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
D. Extensions into required building setbacks (continued)
The new subparagraph 2 is being added to allow eaves to extend up to 2 feet into a required
setback, consistent with an amendment proposed as part of the Residential Infill Project.  The new
subparagraph 3 will allow canopies and awnings to extend up to 5 feet into required setbacks along
streets, which accommodates draft design standards proposed in the DOZA project that would
require weather protection to extend at least 5 feet from building walls along street frontages.

E. Garage entrance and structured parking setback
This paragraph is being amended to reflect the new zone names.  The exception that allowed for
garage entrance setbacks to be based on those on abutting lots is being deleted to avoid
continuation of patterns of garages located in ways that detract from the pedestrian environment
of streets.

Building Coverage Graphics (see page 102)

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 103
 Zoning Code Amendments
2. Building eaves may project up to 2 feet into a required setback, provided the eave is at
least 3 feet from a lot line.
3. Canopies and awnings may extend up to 5 feet into a required setback along a street lot
line.
42. The following minor features may extend into entire required building setbacks:
a. Utility connections attached to the building that are required to provide services,
such as water electricity and other similar utility services;
b. Gutters and downspouts that drain stormwater off a roof of the structure;
c. Stormwater planters that are no more than 2-1/2 feet above the ground;
d. Water collection cisterns that are 6 feet or less in height;
e. Attached decks, stairs, and ramps that are no more than 2-1/2 feet above the
ground. However, stairways and wheelchair ramps that lead to one entrance on the
street-facing facade of a building are allowed to extend into the required street
setbacks regardless of height above ground; and
f. On lots that slope down from the street, vehicular or pedestrian entry bridges that
are no more than 2-1/2 feet above the average sidewalk elevation.
53. Detached accessory structures. The setback standards for detached accessory structures
including detached mechanical equipment are stated in 33.120.280 below. Fences are
addressed in 33.120.285, below. Detached accessory dwelling units are addressed in
Chapter 33.205.
E. Garage entrance and structured parking setback.
1. Garage entrance setback. The garage entrance setback is stated in Table 120-3. See
Chapter 33.910, Definitions, for a description. The walls of the garage structure are subject
to 33.120.283 and the applicable front, side, or rear building setbacks.
a. In R1, RH, andthe RM2, RM3, RM4 and RX zones, the garage entrance must be either
5 feet or closer to the street lot line, or 18 feet or farther from the street lot line. If
the garage entrance is located within 5 feet of the front lot line, it may not be closer
to the lot line than the front facade of the residential portion of the building.
b. Exceptions. (1) The garage entrance setback may be reduced to the average of
the garage entrance setbacks on abutting lots. See Chapter 33.930, Measurements,
for more information.
(2) No setback is required from a lot line abutting an alley. However, the Bureau of
Transportation may require the garage entrance to be set back to ensure
adequate turning radius into the garage.
2. Setbacks for structured parking. Structured parking that allows exiting in a forward motion
is subject to the setback requirements for buildings. Structured parking that does not
allow exiting in a forward motion is subject to the garage entrance setback standard
stated in Table 120-3.

Commentary

Page 104 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.225 Building Coverage

B. Maximum Building Coverage.
This paragraph and Table 120-3 are being amended to allow for 70 percent building coverage
(instead of the usual 60 percent) on sites in the RM2 (R1) zones located adjacent to civic and
neighborhood corridors (see Map 120-1 on page 193).  This increase in building coverage would
provide more development flexibility along corridors intended to be a focus for transit-supportive
development, while retaining existing limits along neighborhood side streets where there is a
greater expectation of continuity with existing neighborhood characteristics.  See graphics on the
previous commentary page (page 102), which illustrate 70 percent lot coverage on the small sites
common in the multi-dwelling zones.  These graphics also illustrate staff’s consideration of the
possibility of setting the RM2 base and bonus FARs to 1.75 to 1 and to 2.5 to 1, respectively
(instead of the proposed FARs of 1.5 to 1, and 2.25 to 1).  The As Amended report retains the
proposed base and bonus FARs due to the fact that, even with increasing the lot coverage to 70
percent, the bonus FAR would barely fit within the building height and coverage parameters.  These
graphics illustrate that it would not be practical to increase allowed building coverage and FARs to
match those of mixed-use zones with comparable height allowances, as requested by some
community members, because of the setbacks required in the multi-dwelling zones.  The 70 percent
building coverage will accommodate greater FAR utilization within a three-story scale, which allows
for less expensive construction costs compared to buildings of four or more stories.

C. Exception.
A new paragraph is being added to allow partially below-ground structured parking, when covered by
landscaping or outdoor common area, to not count against building coverage limits.  Currently, even
when a courtyard set above structured parking is at a height that would not usually count toward
building coverage limitations, an excavated driveway ramp changes this calculation and prevents this
courtyard cap configuration in some zones.

33.120.230 Building Length and Façade Articulation

The paragraphs on this page are being modified with additional text and a new graphic to provide
greater clarity and to include purpose statement language related to a new façade articulation
requirement (see next pages).

Exempting below-ground
structured parking, to not count
against building coverage limits
when capped by landscaping or
courtyards, will allow
configurations such as these,
which were seen as positive
development outcomes in
community discussions.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 105
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.225 Building Coverage
A. Purpose. The building coverage standards, along with the height and setback standards, limit
the overall bulk of structures. They assure that larger buildings will not have a footprint that
overwhelms adjacent development. The standards help define the character of the different
zones by determining how built-up a neighborhood appears.
B. Maximum building coverage. The maximum building coverages for all covered structures on
the site are stated in Table 120-3. In the RM2 zone, maximum building coverage on sites that
abut a Civic Corridor or Neighborhood Corridor shown on Map 120-1 is 70 percent of site area.
Maximum building coverage on all other RM2 sites is 60 percent of site area.
C. Exception. Structured parking that is no more than 6 feet above grade at any point, except as
indicated below, does not count toward building coverage if the structured parking does not
have floor area above it, and the structured parking is covered by landscaping or an outdoor
common area. Vehicle or pedestrian access into the structured parking is exempt from the
calculation of grade, if the access is no more than 20 feet wide.
33.120.230 Building Length and Façade Articulation
A. Purpose. These standardsThe maximum building length standard, along with the height and
setback standard, limits the amount of bulk of buildingsthat can be placed close to the street.
These standards help ensureassures that large buildings will be divided into smaller
components that relate to the scale and development patterns of Portland’s multi-dwelling
residential areas and add visual interest and variety to the street environment. long building
walls close to streets will be broken up into separate buildings. This will provide a feeling of
transition from lower density development and help create the desired character of
development in these zones.
B. Maximum building length. In the RM1, RM2R2, R1, and RMP zones, the maximum building
length for the portion of buildings located within 30 feet of a street lot line is 100 feet. The
portions of buildings subject to this standard must be separated by a minimum of 10 feet. See
Figure 120-7. Manufactured dwelling parks are exempt from this standard.
Figure 120-7
Maximum Building Length

Commentary

Page 106 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.230 Building Length and Façade Articulation
C. Facade articulation

This new requirement is being added for consistency with façade articulation requirements recently
adopted for the commercial/mixed use zones (Chapter 33.130).  They will apply to zones (RM2,
RM3, and RM4 [R1, RH]) that allow building height (45 feet or more) that corresponds to the scale
of development where this regulation applies in the commercial/mixed use zones.  The standards
will apply to building over three stories tall in the RM2 (R1) zone and over four stories in the RM3
and RM4 (RH) zones.  These regulations are intended to divide up the mass of larger buildings into
smaller components that better fit into the scale of neighborhood residential areas.

Requirements for façade articulation would ensure that large buildings, as are allowed in the RM2 (R1)
zone (left), are divided into smaller components (right) that relate to the scale of residential neighborhoods.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 107
 Zoning Code Amendments
C. Facade articulation.
1. Where the standard applies. This standard applies in the RM2 through RM4 zones as
follows:
a.  In the RM2 zone, the standard applies to buildings more than 35 feet high that have
facade areas of more than 3,500 square feet within 20 feet of a street property line.
b.  In the RM3 and RM4 zones, the standard applies to buildings more than 45 feet high
that have facade areas of more than 4,500 square feet within 20 feet of a street
property line.
c. Portions of building facades that are vertically separated by a gap of at least 10 feet in
width extending at least 30 feet in depth from the street property line are considered
to be separate facades areas for the purposes of the facade area measurements. See
Figure 120-7.
2.  The standard. At least 25 percent of the area of a street-facing facade within 20 feet of a
street lot line must be divided into facade planes that are off-set by at least 2 feet in depth
from the rest of the facade. Facade area used to meet the facade articulation standard
may be recessed behind, or project out from, the primary facade plane, but projections
into street right-of-way do not count toward meeting this standard. See Figure 120-8.

Figure 120-8
Facade Articulation

Commentary

Page 108 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.231 Main Entrances

This section is being changed to apply requirements for street-oriented main entrances that
currently apply primarily to houses, attached houses and duplexes, to also apply to multi-dwelling
development and structures.  Currently, there are no requirements for street-oriented entrances
for the latter types of development, counter to policies that call for street-oriented development
that supports pedestrian-friendly street environments.  Where sites include more than one street
frontage, the regulations prioritize locating main entrances on transit streets to facilitate
pedestrian connections to transit and to foster a strong building orientation to these streets.

New requirements for street-oriented main entrances will:
 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 109
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.231 Main Entrances
A. Purpose. The main entrance standards:
 Together with the window and garage standards, ensure that there is a physical and visual
connection between the living area of the residence and the street;
 Enhance public safety for residents and visitors and provide opportunities for community
interaction;
 Ensure that the pedestrian entrance is visible or clearly identifiable from the street by its
orientation or articulation; and
 Ensure that pedestrians can easily find the main entrance, and so establish how to enter
the residence.
 Ensure a connection to the public realm for development on lots fronting both private and
public streets by making the pedestrian entrance visible or clearly identifiable from the
public street.
B. Where these standards apply.
1. The standards of this section apply to all residential structure typeshouses, attached
houses, manufactured homes on individual lots, and duplexes in the multi-dwelling zones
except for accessory dwelling units, manufactured dwelling parks, and houseboat
moorages. For multi-dwelling development, the standards apply only to residential
structures that are located within 40 feet of a street lot line.
2. Where a proposal is for an alteration or addition to existing development, the standards
apply only to the portion being altered or added.
3. On sites with frontage on both a private street and a public street, the standards apply to
the site frontage on the public street. On all other sites with more than one street
frontage, the standards apply to the transit street. If there is no transit street, the
applicant may choose on which frontage to meet the standards. If there is more than one
transit street, the standards apply to the street with the highest transit street
classification. If all streets have the same transit street classification, the applicant may
choose on which frontage to meet the standards.
4. Development on flag lots or on lots whichthat slope up or down from the street with an
average slope of 20 percent or more are exempt from these standards.
5. Subdivisions and PUDs that received preliminary plan approval between September 9,
1990, and September 9, 1995, are exempt from this standard.
6. Development on lots where any portion of the lot is in a special flood hazard area is
exempt from the standard in Subsection D.

Commentary

Page 110 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.231 Main Entrances (continued)
Alternative for multi-dwelling structures

This subparagraph provides an alternative for the entrances of multi-dwelling structures to be
oriented to a courtyard, instead of being located at the street frontage, allowing continuation of a
common courtyard housing configuration.  This is consistent with regulations that apply in the
commercial/mixed use zones and in the Community Design Standards.

D. Distance from grade
This new paragraph ensures consistency with a regulation for the same types of development in
single-dwelling zones.  It helps foster a better relationship to the street environment, continues
established neighborhood patterns, and limits lengthy runs of steps (which can be problematic for
people with mobility limitations).

House (center) with long run of stairs that would
not meet the distance from grade standard.
Duplex that would meet the distance from grade
standard.
 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 111
 Zoning Code Amendments
C. Main entrance Location.
1. Standard.  At least one main entrance for each structure must:
a1. Be within 8 feet of the longest street-facing wall of the structure dwelling unit; and
b2. Either:
(1)a. Face the street. See Figure 120-59;
(2)b. Be at an angle of up to 45 degrees from the street; or
(3)c. Open onto a porch. See Figure 120-610. The porch must:
 (1) Be at least 25 square feet in area;
 (2) Have at least one entrance facing the street; and
 (3) Have a roof that is:
– No more than 12 feet above the floor of the porch; and
– At least 30 percent solid. This standard may be met by having 30
percent of the porch area covered with a solid roof, or by having the
entire area covered with a trellis or other open material if no more than
70 percent of the area of the material is open.
2. Alternative for multi-dwelling structures. As an alternative to Paragraph C.1, an entrance
to a multi-dwelling structure may face a courtyard if the courtyard-facing entrance is
located within 60 feet of a street and the courtyard meets the following standards:
a. The courtyard must be at least 15 feet in width;
b. The courtyard must abut a street; and
c. The courtyard must be landscaped to at least the L1 level, or hard-surfaced for use by
pedestrians.
D. Distance from grade. For houses, attached houses, manufactured homes, duplexes, triplexes,
and fourplexes, the main entrance that meets Paragraph C.1 must be within 4 feet of grade.
For the purposes of this Subsection, grade is the average grade measured at the outer most
corners of the street facing façade. See Figure 120-11.

Commentary

Page 112 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
Figures 120-9 and 120-10

No change, except to figure numbers.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 113
 Zoning Code Amendments
Figure 120-59
Main Entrance Facing the Street

Figure 120-610
Main Entrance Opening Onto a Porch

Commentary

Page 114 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
Figures 120-11

This is a new figure illustrating measurement of average grade for the purpose of determining the
distance of the main entrance from grade.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 115
 Zoning Code Amendments
Figure 120-11
Calculation of Grade: (Elevation A + Elevation B) / 2

Commentary

Page 116 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.232 Street-Facing Facades

Amendments to this section add requirements for ground floor windows in conjunction with
allowances being provided for commercial uses in the multi-dwelling zones.  In the multi-dwelling
zones, a minimum 40 percent window coverage will be required for the walls of ground floor
commercial uses when located closer than 5 feet from a street lot line, consistent with ground-
floor window coverage requirements in the mixed uses zones.
25 percent window coverage will be required when commercial uses are set further back from the
street to provide flexibility for configurations with commercial uses that have a more residential
character, such as live-work arrangements, and that continue front setback patterns of residential
areas.  This lesser window coverage amount also corresponds to the ground floor window
requirement that applies in the commercial/mixed use zones along secondary street frontages.
The window coverage standards for the RX zone are being deleted, as window coverage in the RX
zone is regulated by the Central City and Gateway plan districts.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 117
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.232 Street-Facing Facades
A. Purpose. These standards:
 TogetherWork with the main entrance and garage standards, to ensure that there is a
visual connection between the living area of the residence and the street;
 Enhance public safety by allowing people to survey their neighborhood from inside their
residences; and
 Provide a more pleasant pedestrian environment by preventing large expanses of blank
facades along streets.
B. Where these standards apply.
1. The standards of this section apply to the street-facing facades of buildings that include
any residential uses. The standards of this section do not apply in the RMP zone.
2. Where a proposal is for an alteration or addition to existing development, the applicant
may choose to apply the standard either to the portion being altered or added, or to the
entire street-facing facade.
2. Development on flag lots, and development on lots that slope up or down from the street
with an average slope of 20 percent or more, is exempt from these standards. In addition,
3. Subdivisions and PUDs that received preliminary plan approval between September 9,
1990, and September 9, 1995, are exempt from Subsection CParagraph B.1, below. Where
a proposal is for an alteration or addition to existing development, the applicant may
choose to apply the standard either to the portion being altered or added, or to the entire
street-facing facade.
4. For structures subject to ground floor window standard in Subsection D, windows used to
meet ground floor window standard may also be used to meet the requirements of
Subsection C.
1C. Windows. At least 15 percent of the area of each façade that faces a street lot line must be
windows or main entrance doors. Windows used to meet this standard must allow views from
the building to the street. Glass block does not meet this standard. Windows in garage doors do
not count toward meeting this standard, but windows in garage walls do count toward meeting
this standard. To count toward meeting this standard a door must be at the main entrance and
facing the street property line. Development on flag lots or on lots which slope up or down
from the street with an average slope of 20 percent or more are exempt from these standards.
D. Ground floor windows. The following ground floor window standards apply to the portion of a
building with ground floor commercial uses. For the purposes of this Paragraph, ground floor
wall area includes exterior wall area from 2 feet to 10 feet above the finished grade. Required
ground floor windows must be windows in walls or entrances that allow views into working
area or display windows that are at least 24 inches deep set into a wall. The bottom of
qualifying windows must be no more than 4 feet above the adjacent exterior grade:

Commentary

Page 118 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.235 Landscaped Areas

Current regulations require multi-dwelling development to include landscaped areas. However, these
regulations do not allow many innovative types of green features to count toward meeting required
landscaping, which must be at ground level. For instance, eco roofs, raised landscaped courtyards
and raised stormwater planters do not meet these requirements.

Changes to this section will allow stormwater
planters to contribute to landscaping requirements,
and permit eco roofs and raised courtyard
landscaping to be used to meet up to 50 percent of
required landscaping.  The other 50 percent of
required landscaping will need to be at ground level
to better accommodate required trees (existing
Title 11 tree density requirements will continue to
apply).

For the raised landscaped area option, trees used to
meet L1 landscaped standards must be small or
medium trees, as large trees (such as Beech, London Plane, Red Oak, and Douglas Fir trees) are
usually too large to thrive in raised planting areas with 30 inches of soil depth.

The urban green options in this section are similar to regulations recently adopted for the
commercial/mixed use zones.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 119
 Zoning Code Amendments
1. Windows must cover at least 40 percent of the ground floor wall area of the portion of a
building that has a ground floor commercial use when the ground floor wall is located
closer than 5 feet from a street lot line.
2. Windows must cover at least 25 percent of the ground floor wall area of the portion of
building that has a ground floor commercial use when the ground floor wall is located 5
feet or more from a street lot line.
2. RX zone. The portions of buildings in the RX zone that have nonresidential development
are subject to the ground floor window requirements of the CX zone in 33.130.230.B.2.
3. For structures subject to ground floor window requirements, windows used to meet
ground floor window requirements may also be used to meet the requirements of
Paragraph B.1, above.
33.120.235 Landscaped Areas
A. Purpose. The standards for landscaped areas are intended to enhance the overall appearance
of residential developments and institutional campuses in multi-dwelling zones. The
landscaping improves the residential character of the area, breaks up large expanses of paved
areas and structures, provides privacy to the residents, and provides separation from streets.
Landscaping also helps cool the air temperature, intercept rainfall and reduce stormwater run-
off by providing a non-paved permeable surface. Landscaping can also provide food for people
and habitat for birds and other wildlife.
B. Minimum landscaped areas. The required amount of landscaped area is stated in Table 120-3.
Sites developed with a house, attached house, or duplex, or manufactured dwelling park are
exempt from this standard. Required landscaped areas must be at ground level and must
comply with at least the L1 standard in Chapter 33.248. Up to 1/3 of the required landscaped
area may be for active or passive recreational use, or for use by pedestrians. Examples include
walkways, play areas, plazas, picnic areas, and open recreational facilities. Remaining
landscaped areas must comply with the standards in Subsection C. below. Any required
landscaping, such as for required setbacks or parking lots, applies toward the minimum
required landscaped area. The outdoor areas required in 33.120.240 below, also apply towards
meeting the minimum landscaped area requirements of this section, if they are uncovered.
1. Except as allowed by Paragraph B.2., required landscaped areas must:
a. Be at ground level or in raised planters that are used to meet minimum Bureau of
Environmental Services stormwater management requirements; and
b. Comply with at least the L1 standard described in Chapter 33.248, Landscaping and
Screening. However, up to one-third of the required landscaped area may be
improved for active or passive recreational use or for use by pedestrians. Examples of
active or passive recreational use include walkways, play areas, plazas, picnic areas,
garden plots, and unenclosed recreational facilities.

Commentary

Page 120 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
C. Additional landscaping standards
Changes to this paragraph extend the same exemption to landscaping in building setbacks that
currently applies to houses, attached houses and duplexes so that this also applies to multi-dwelling
development on small sites (10,000 square feet or smaller).  Setback landscaping regulations include
requirements for planting trees, for which 5 foot setbacks provide little space for growth.  Title 11
tree planting requirements will continue to apply, but this change provides more flexibility for
locating required trees on other portions of small sites (currently, the number of trees required
within landscaped setbacks is typically sufficient to meet required tree densities).  This amendment
will facilitate compact multi-dwelling building types on small sites, such as fourplexes and small
apartment buildings, which were historically designed to be similar to single-family houses.
See page 88 for commentary on landscaping requirements for the Eastern pattern area minimum
rear setback (subparagraph C.1).

33.120.240 Required Outdoor and Common Areas
Changes to this section will require outdoor areas for development in the RH (RM3 and RM4) zone,
which currently requires no residential outdoor space.  In the new RM3 and RM4 zones, 36 square
feet per unit will be required for smaller sites (up to 20,000 square feet), and 48 square feet per
unit will be required for larger sites.  This is
consistent with requirements that apply to similar
higher-density housing in the commercial/mixed use
zones.
Outdoor space requirements for small sites in the
lower-scale zones will remain unchanged, except for
an allowance applicable to all multi-dwelling zones for
outdoor space requirements to be met by indoor
community spaces.

There has been community interest in middle density housing that is similar in scale and characteristics to single-family houses, but
landscaping and other regulatory standards currently apply differently to these housing types, complicating the ability to design plexes
for small sites (such as these historic triplexes and fourplexes).  Proposed changes to landscaping and other site design regulations will
facilitate compact multi-dwelling development on small sites.
Development in the RH zone, such as this example in East Portland,
currently has no requirements for outdoor space for residents, sometimes
resulting in parking lots as the only places for children to play.
 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 121
 Zoning Code Amendments
2. Urban green alternative landscaped area. One or more of the following may be used to
meet up to 50 percent of the required landscaped area:
a. Ecoroof. An ecoroof area may apply toward meeting the required landscaped area
standard at a ratio of 4 square feet of ecoroof area for every 1 square foot of
required landscaped area. The ecoroof area must be approved by the Bureau of
Environmental Services as being in compliance with the Stormwater Management
Manual.
b. Raised landscaped areas. Landscaped area raised above ground level may apply
toward meeting the minimum landscaped area standard when landscaped to at least
the L1 standard and soil depth is a minimum of 30 inches. Large trees are not allowed
in raised landscaped area used to meet this alternative.
C. Additional Llandscaping standards.
1. Building setbacks. The required building setbacks must be landscaped to at least the L1
standard of Chapter 33.248, Landscaping and Screening. Ground-level pedestrian
pathways, Ddetached accessory structures, and other development allowed in the
setbacks are exempt from this standard except in the Eastern Pattern Area where allowed
development can cover no more than 50 percent of the Eastern Pattern Area minimum
rear setback area. Sites that are 10,000 square feet or less in total site areadeveloped with
a house, attached house or duplex are also exempt from this standard.
2. Parking areas. Perimeter and internal parking area landscaping standards are stated in
Chapter 33.266, Parking And Loading.
33.120.237 Trees
Requirements for street trees and for on-site tree preservation, protection, and overall tree density are
specified in Title 11, Trees. See Chapter 11.50, Trees in Development Situations.
33.120.240 Required Outdoor and Common Areas
A. Purpose. The required outdoor and common areas standards assureensure opportunities for
outdoor relaxation or recreation. The standards work with the building coverage and minimum
landscaped areas standards to assureensure that some of the land not covered by buildings is
of adequate size, shape, and location to be usable for outdoor recreation or relaxation. The
standards also ensure that outdoor areas are located so that residents have convenient access.
Required outdoor areas are an important aspect in addressing the livability of a residential
property by providing outdoor living opportunities, some options for outdoor privacy, and a
healthy environment. These standards also allow for common area requirements to be met by
indoor community facilities because they also provide opportunities for recreation and
gathering.
B. Outdoor area and common area Rrequirements. In the RM1 through RM4 zones, both outdoor
and common areas are required. Required common area may count toward required outdoor
area, but individual private outdoor area may not count toward required common area. The
standards of this section do not apply in the RX and RMP zones.

Commentary

Page 122 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
Street-oriented townhouses
on a large site.
33.120.240 Required Outdoor Areas (continued)
Required common area for large sites
This section includes new requirements for
large sites (more than 20,000 square feet in
total site area) to include common areas, such as
courtyards or play areas.  In past projects that
focused on the health and activity needs of
people living in apartments, residents identified
the need for having usable outdoor spaces
located close by for activities such as children’s play and growing food. Currently, shared outdoor
spaces that are large enough to provide these opportunities are not required and often not provided
with new multi-dwelling development.
The new regulations require that development on large sites provide common areas equal to 10
percent of total site area (for example, a 30,000 square foot site would need to provide 3,000
square feet of common area).  The regulations provide flexibility in the design and location of this
common area, which can be located at ground level or on raised courtyards or roof tops, and up to
50 percent of the requirement could be met with indoor common areas, such as indoor recreation
facilities or community rooms.  A minimum dimension of 20-
feet ensures that outdoor common areas will be of usable
size.  The required common area will count toward meeting
the per-unit outdoor space requirements.
The 10 percent requirement corresponds to the percent of
site area used for shared outdoor areas frequently found in
historic and more recent multi-dwelling developments that
include common outdoor areas. The diagram (right) shows
an area equal to 10 percent of site area in green.
An exception to the common area requirement for large sites is
provided for street-oriented housing types, such as townhouses,
when larger individual outdoor space is provided for each unit (200
square feet [equal to the R2.5 zone requirement for attached
houses], instead of the usual 48 square feet). This addresses
concerns raised that the shared common area requirement is not
practical for street-oriented housing types.
Historic and contemporary examples
of multi-dwelling housing with
courtyards that are approximately
10 percent of site area.
 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 123
 Zoning Code Amendments
1. Amount requiredRequired outdoor area. Outdoor area is required in the amounts stated
below. Outdoor area may be provided as individual private outdoor area, such as a patio
or balcony, or may be provided as common area, such as outdoor courtyards, outdoor
play area, indoor recreational facilities, or indoor community rooms. There may be a
combination of individual or common areas.
a. RM1 and RM2 zones. In the RM1 and RM2 zones, Aat least 48 square feet of outdoor
area is required for eachper dwelling unit on the site. The RMP zone is exempt from
the standards in this section.
b. RM3 and RM4 zones. In the RM3 and RM4 zones, on sites that are 20,000 square feet
or less in total area, at least 36 square feet of outdoor area is required per dwelling
unit. In the RM3 and RM4 zones, on sites that are more than 20,000 square feet in
total area, at least 48 square feet of outdoor area is required per dwelling unit.
2. Required common area.
a. Required common area standard. On sites that are more than 20,000 square feet in
total site area, at least 10 percent of total site area must be provided as common
area. At least 50 percent of the required common area must be outdoor area, such as
outdoor courtyards or outdoor play areas. Up to 50 percent of the required common
area may be indoor common area, such as indoor recreation facilities or indoor
community rooms.
b. Exemption. The required common area standard does not apply to sites where:
(1) All of the dwelling units have individual entrances that are within 20 feet of a
street lot line;
(2) Each entrance is connected to the street by a path that is at least 3 feet wide
and hard surfaced; and
(3) Each dwelling unit has at least 200 square feet of individual outdoor area with a
minimum dimension of 10 feet by 10 feet.
2C. Size, location and configuration. Required outdoor area may be provided as individual, private
outdoor areas, such as patios or balconies, or as common, shared outdoor areas, such as
courtyards and play areas. There also may be a combination of individual and common areas.
a1. Individual unit outdoor areas. Where a separate outdoor area is provided for eachan
individual unit, it must be designed so that a 64-foot x 6-foot square will fit entirely within
it. The outdoor area must be directly accessible to the unit. Areas used for pedestrian
circulation to more than one dwelling unit do not count towards meeting this standard of
this subsection. If the area is at ground level, it may extend into the entire required side
and rear setback, but not into the required front building setback. Individual unit outdoor
areas located at ground level may also extend into the entire required street setback, but
when located within a required street setback the outdoor area must either be at least 2
feet above the grade of the closest adjoining sidewalk or separated from the street lot line
by a minimum 3 foot setback landscaped to at least the L2 standard described in Chapter
33.248, Landscaping and Screening. Covered outdoor areas are subject to Paragraph B.5
below.

Commentary

Page 124 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.240 Required Outdoor and Common Areas (continued)
Size, location and configurations
Individual unit outdoor areas (previous page).  Amendments to the individual outdoor space
requirements change the minimum dimensions for private outdoor spaces and provide allowances for
individual outdoor spaces to extend into front setback areas.  These changes help provide flexibility
in meeting requirements to accommodate development in higher density zones, where incorporating
outdoor spaces as part of compact development can be problematic.  Individual outdoor areas that
extend into required setbacks must either be raised above sidewalk level or screened by
landscaping to provide a better interface with the public realm of streets and allow for more
comfortable semi-private spaces close to sidewalks.

Common areas.  Amendments ensure that outdoor common areas are of usable dimension and
located close to and accessible from residential units.  They also allow for indoor common areas to
be used to meet the requirements of this section.
Community members have related that indoor
community spaces and recreation rooms can be
invaluable in Portland’s often rainy climate.

Example of outdoor common area with
residential units oriented to this space.
Right: Concepts for individual outdoor spaces, located within
5-10 foot front setbacks, screened or raised from sidewalks.
Below: Example of individual outdoor area both raised and
separated by landscaping from the sidewalk, providing more
comfortable and useable outdoor spaces for residents.
 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 125
 Zoning Code Amendments
b2. Common areas.
a. Outdoor common area. Where an outdoor, shared common area is provided areas
are common, shared areas, each it must be designed so that it is at least 500 square
feet in area and must measure at least 20 feet in all directionsso that a 15-foot x 15-
foot square will fit entirely within it. The outdoor common area must be located
within 20 feet of a building entrance providing access to residential units.
b. Indoor common area. Where an indoor common area is provided, it must be an
indoor recreational facility or an indoor tenant community room. Indoor common
areas that are not recreational facilities or community rooms, such as lobbies,
hallways, laundry facilities, storage rooms, and vehicle or bicycle facilities, cannot be
used to meet this requirement.
c. Combination of individual and common areas. Where a combination of individual
unit and common areas is provided, each individual area must meet B.2.a C.1 above
and each common area must meet B.2.b C.2.a or C.2.b above, providing an amount
equivalent to the total required by Paragraph B.1 or B.248 square feet of outdoor
area for each dwelling unit served by the common area.
3. Surfacing materials. Required outdoor areas must be surfaced with lawn, pavers, decking,
or sport court paving which allows the area to be used for active or passive recreational
use.
4. User amenities. User amenities, such as tables, benches, trees, shrubs, planter boxes,
garden plots, drinking fountains, spas, or pools, may be placed in the outdoor area.
Common, shared outdoor areas may also be developed with amenities such as play areas,
plazas, roof-top patios, picnic areas, and open recreational facilities.
5. Enclosure. Required oOutdoor areas used to meet the requirements of this section may be
covered, such as a covered patio, but they may not be fully enclosed. Covered outdoor
areas are subject to the setback standards of this chapter.

Commentary

Page 126 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.250 Screening
The only amendment to this section is a requirement for outdoor seating associated with
commercial uses be screened from abutting properties that have residential zoning.  This responds
to public comments requesting that the new allowances for limited amounts of commercial uses,
which allow for small restaurants and cafes, be accompanied by regulations that help minimize
impacts on neighboring properties, especially given the intended residential character of the multi-
dwelling zones.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 127
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.250 Screening
A. Purpose. The screening standards address specific unsightly features which detract from the
appearance of multi-dwelling residential areas.
B. Garbage and recycling collection areas. All exterior garbage cans, garbage collection areas, and
recycling collection areas must be screened from the street and any adjacent properties. Trash
receptacles for pedestrian use are exempt. Screening must comply with at least the L3 or F2
standards of Chapter 33.248, Landscaping and Screening.
C. Mechanical equipment. Mechanical equipment located on the ground, such as heating or
cooling equipment, pumps, or generators must be screened from the street and any abutting
residential zones by walls, fences, or vegetation. Screening must comply with at least the L2 or
F2 standards of Chapter 33.248, Landscaping and Screening, and be tall enough to screen the
equipment. Mechanical equipment placed on roofs must be screened in one of the following
ways, if the equipment is within 50 feet of an R zone:
1. A parapet along facades facing the R zone that is as tall as the tallest part of
the equipment;
2. A screen around the equipment that is as tall as the tallest part of the equipment; or
3. The equipment is set back from roof edges facing the R zone 3 feet for each foot of height
of the equipment.
D. Other screening requirements. Outdoor seating associated with a Retail Sales And Service use
must be screened from any abutting residential zones by walls, fences or vegetation. Screening
must comply with at least the L3 or F2 standards of Chapter 33.248, Landscaping and
Screening. The screening requirements for parking, exterior storage, and exterior display areas
are stated with the regulations for those types of development.

Commentary

Page 128 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.255 Pedestrian Standards

This section is being amended to require that all buildings on multi-dwelling sites that are located
close to a street have pedestrian connections to the street.  On sites that are entirely residential,
current regulations require only one entrance on a site to provide a connection to a street.  This
sometimes results in multiple building on a site have no direct connection to adjacent streets,
counter to policy goals for encouraging buildings to be oriented to streets.

Other amendments in this section bring consistency with similar regulations recently adopted for
the commercial/mixed use zones.

Multi-dwelling zone development (multiple detached houses) with no pedestrian
connections to the adjacent transit street. Proposed amendments to pedestrian
standards in conjunction with main entrance requirements would prevent this
lack of orientation to the street.
 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 129
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.255 Pedestrian Standards
A. Purpose. The pedestrian standards encourage a safe, attractive, and usable pedestrian
circulation system in all developments. They ensure a direct pedestrian connection between
abutting streets and buildings on the site, and between buildings and other activities within the
site. In addition, they provide for connections between adjacent sites, where feasible. The
standards promote configurations that minimize conflicts between pedestrians and vehicles. In
order to facilitate additional pedestrian oriented space and less impervious surface, the
standards also provide opportunities for accessways with low traffic volumes, serving a limited
number of residential units, to be designed to accommodate pedestrians and vehicles within
the same space when special paving treatments are used to signify their intended use by
pedestrians as well as vehicles.
B. The standards. The standards of this section apply to all development except houses, attached
houses, manufactured homes on individual lots, and duplexes, and attached duplexes. The
standards of this section also do not apply to manufactured dwelling parks. An on-site
pedestrian circulation system must be provided. The system must meet all standards of this
subsection.
1. Connections. The on-site pedestrian circulation system must provide connections as
specified below:
a. Connection between streets and entrances.
(1) Sites with one street frontage.
 Generally. All primary buildings located within 40 feet of a street lot line
must have a connection between one main entrance and the adjacent
street.There must be a connection between one main entrance of each
building on the site and the adjacent street. The connection may not be
more than 20 feet longer or 120 percent of the straight line distance,
whichever is less.
 Household Living. Sites where all of the floor area is in Household Living uses
are only required to provide a connection to one main entrance on the site.
The connection may not be more than 20 feet longer or 120 percent of the
straight line distance, whichever is less.
 Tree preservation. If a tree that is at least 12 inches in diameter is proposed
for preservation, and the location of the tree or its root protection zone
would prevent the standard of this paragraph from being met, the
connection may be up to 200 percent of the straight line distance.
(2) Sites with more than one street frontage. Where the site has more than one
street frontage, the following must be met:
 The standard of B.1.a(1) must be met to connect the main entrance of each
building located within 40 feet of a street lot lineon the site to the closest
sidewalk or roadway if there are no sidewalks. Sites where all of the floor
area is in Household Living uses are only required to provide a straight line
connection to one main entrance on the site;
 An additional connection, which does not have to be a straight line
connection, is required between each of the other streets and a pedestrian
entrance. However, if at least 50 percent of a street facing facade is within
10 feet of the street, no connection is required to that street.

Commentary

Page 130 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.255 Pedestrian Standards (continued)

Subparagraph B.2 is being modified so that the required width of pedestrian connections varies
according to the number of units on a site.  Pedestrian connections serving larger numbers of units
are required to be wider (at least 5 feet for sites with more than 20 units) to accommodate the
greater numbers of residents served by the pedestrian circulation system.  Pedestrian connections
serving smaller numbers of units can be narrower, which allows for less site area to be paved.

Also, additional text has been added (“circulation system required by the standards of this
section”) to allow redundant pedestrian connections to not have to meet the minimum pathway width
requirements.  In some cases, units are provided with access both by steps and by accessible ramps.
The amendments will require only one of these connections to meet the minimum width standards –
the other connections would still need to meet building code standards (typically 3 feet).  This
facilitates compact development on small sites and allows less site area to be devoted to paved
surfaces.

33.120.260 Recycling Areas
No change.

Amendments to the pedestrian standards will allow entrance pathways
accessing up to four units to be as narrow as three-feet wide, even on a
large site with more than 20 units.
 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 131
 Zoning Code Amendments
b. Internal connections. On sites larger than 10,000 square feet, an internal pedestrian
connection system must be provided. The system must connect all main entrances
on the site that are more than 20 feet from the street, and provide connections to
other areas of the site, such as parking areas, bicycle parking, recreational areas,
common outdoor areas, and any pedestrian amenities.
2. Materials.
a. The circulation system required by the standards of this section must be hard-
surfaced and be at least 5 feet wide.must meet the following minimum width
requirements:
(1)  The circulation system on sites with up to 4 residential units must be at least 3
feet wide. Segments of the circulation system that provide access to no more
than 4 residential units may be 3 feet wide.
(2) The circulation system on sites with 5 to 20 units must be at least 4 feet wide.
(3) The circulation system on sites with more than 20 residential units must be at
least 5 feet wide.
(4) Segments of the circulation system that connect only to an entrance providing
access to up to 4 units may be 3 feet wide.
b. Except as allowed in subparagraph d, below, where the system crosses driveways,
parking areas, and loading areas, the system must be clearly identifiable, through the
use of elevation changes, speed bumps, a different paving material, or other similar
method. Striping does not meet this requirement. Elevation changes and speed
bumps must be at least 4 inches high.
c. Except as allowed in subparagraph d, below, where the system is parallel and
adjacent to an auto travel lane, the system must be a raised path or be separated
from the auto travel lane by a raised curb, bollards, landscaping or other physical
barrier. If a raised path is used it must be at least 4 inches high and the ends of the
raised portions must be equipped with curb ramps. Bollard spacing must be no
further apart than 5 feet on center.
d. The pedestrian circulation system may be within an auto travel lane if the auto travel
lane provides access to 16 or fewer parking spaces and the entire auto travel lane is
surfaced with paving blocks or bricks.
3. Lighting. The on-site pedestrian circulation system must be lighted to a level where the
system can be used at night by the employees, residents, and customers.
33.120.260 Recycling Areas
Requirements for recycling areas are regulated by the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. See Section
17.102.270, Businesses and Multifamily Complexes Required to Recycle, of the Portland
City Code.

Commentary

Page 132 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.265 Amenity Bonuses

This section is being deleted, with provisions either being discontinued, included in the new Floor
Area Bonus Options section (33.120.211 – see commentary on page 64), or replaced by new
regulatory approaches such as increased outdoor space requirements or tree preservation FAR
transfers.
A key reason most of the amenity bonuses are being discontinued is to prioritize affordable housing
as a development outcome.  Currently, the existing amenity bonuses can be combined to provide up
to 50 percent more development than usually allowed.  Projects do not have to include any
affordable housing to achieve this increase.  Also, the proposal to regulate development intensity by
FAR provides flexibility for additional units, for which the amenity bonuses had been the primary
means to achieve.  The table below summarizes what is happening to the existing amenity bonuses.

Existing Development Bonuses Proposed Approach
Affordable housing
(inclusionary housing)
Prioritize by increasing amount of development bonus to 50
percent additional FAR (see pages 62 – 67).
Three bedroom units Continue, in order to provide an incentive for family-sized units.
Outdoor recreation facilities Remove as development bonuses, but address through new
requirements for shared outdoor spaces (see pages 122 - 125). Play areas for children
Large outdoor areas
Storage areas Remove as development bonuses.
(In stakeholder discussions, community members felt these were
lesser priorities than other outcomes, especially affordable housing) Sound insulation
Crime prevention
Solar water heating
Tree preservation Remove as a development bonus, but address through a new
transfer of development rights allowance for tree preservation (see
pages 57 - 61).

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 133
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.265 Amenity Bonuses
A. Purpose and description. Special amenity bonuses for increased density are intended to
improve the livability of multi-dwelling developments for their residents and to promote family
oriented multi-dwelling developments. The amenity bonuses are designed to allow additional
dwelling units in a manner that is still consistent with the purposes of the multi-dwelling zones.
The bonuses are applicable to a range of development sizes. However, they are more practical
or workable for larger projects. Not all bonus options will be applicable for all situations. The
amenity options are designed to provide incentives, while leaving the specific choices to the
developer. Some options involve providing additional features, such as children's play areas.
Others require improved materials, such as additional sound insulation.
 The amount of the bonus for each option is a result of balancing several factors.
These include:
 The likelihood that the amenity will be provided without the use of incentives;
 The potential cost to the developer; and
 The importance of the amenity.
B. Regulations.
1. Qualifying types of development. The amenity bonus provisions are applicable to all
housing types in the R3, R2, and R1 zones.
2. Computation of the bonus. The percentages of all the bonus options included in the
project are added together. The total is then applied to the allowed number of units to
determine the additional units allowed. Fractions of additional units earned are
not counted.
3. Maximum bonus. The maximum density increase allowed for a development is 50 percent
including density increased through an inclusionary housing bonus allowed by
33.120.205.F. Increases over 50 percent are prohibited.
4. Compliance with the standards. The bonus amenity standards must be met in full to
receive the bonus; exceptions are prohibited. In addition, adjustments to the
development standards of the base zone, overlay zone, or plan district are prohibited if
the project is to receive any density bonuses. It is the responsibility of the applicant to
document that all of the amenity bonus requirements are met. Documentation is required
prior to issuance of building permits for the bonus units.
5. Base zone site development standards. The additional units must comply with all
applicable site development standards. Any development feature provided to comply with
the requirements of the base zone, such as the required outdoor area requirement, may
not be counted towards the calculation of bonus density.

Commentary

Page 134 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.265 Amenity Bonuses

See previous commentary.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 135
 Zoning Code Amendments
6. Covenants.
a. The applicant must sign a covenant that ensures that the amenities provided to
receive any bonus density will continue to be provided for the life of the project.
b. The covenant must comply with the standards in 33.700.060, Covenants with
the City.
c. If the bonus density is earned through preservation of trees under Paragraph C.9, the
covenant must also specify that if the trees are determined to be dead, diseased, or
dangerous by an arborist, they must be removed and replaced under a tree permit in
accordance with Title 11, Trees. If a tree used to earn bonus density is dead,
diseased, or dangerous as the result of a violation, Tree Review is required.
C. The amenity bonus options.
1. Outdoor recreation facilities. Outdoor recreational facilities may include a tennis or
basketball court, ball field, swimming pool, horseshoe pit, gazebo, permanent picnic
tables, and similar items. The density bonus is 2 percent for each 1/2 of 1 percent of the
overall project development cost spent on outdoor recreation facilities. There is a
maximum of 10 percent density increase allowed for this bonus.
2. Children's play areas. The density bonus for this amenity is 5 percent. A qualifying
children's play area must comply with all of the following standards:
a. Size and layout. Each children's play area must be at least 1,000 square feet and
clearly delineated. Each must be of such shape to allow a square 25 feet on a side to
fit in the area. At least 400 square feet of the area must be in grass. Children's play
areas must be separated from any other outdoor
recreational facilities.
b. Play equipment. Each children's play area must include a play structure at least 100
square feet in area, a swing structure with at least 4 swings, and at least one of the
following: a slide, permanent sand box, permanent wading pool, or other children's
play equipment commonly found in a public park. Equipment must be of adequate
materials to match the expected use, and manufactured to American Society for
Testing and Materials (ASTM) F1487-11 standards or other comparable standards
applicable to public playground equipment.
c. Fencing. Each children's play area must be fenced along any perimeter which is
within 10 feet of a street, alley, property line, or parking area.
3. Three bedroom units. A bonus of 5 percent is allowed if 10 percent of the development's
units have at least 3 bedrooms. A bonus of 10 percent is allowed if 20 percent or more of
the development's units have at least 3 bedrooms. If between 10 percent and 20 percent
of the units have at least 3 bedrooms, then the bonus is prorated.

Commentary

Page 136 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.265 Amenity Bonuses

See previous commentary.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 137
 Zoning Code Amendments
4. Storage areas. The density bonus for this amenity is 5 percent. The bonus is allowed if all
units are provided with interior storage and additional storage for large items, as indicated
below.
a. Interior storage. Interior storage areas must comply with all of the following
minimum dimensions:
(1) Kitchens — 20 square feet of drawers and 50 square feet of shelf space. Shelves
must have at least 12 inches of vertical clearance.
(2) Bedroom closets — 16 square feet in floor area, and one in each bedroom.
(3) Linen closet — 10 square feet of shelving, and may be located in a hallway or
bathroom.
(4) Entry closet — 10 square feet of floor area.
b. Storage for large items. Storage areas must be fully enclosed, be dry, and have locks if
they are not located in the dwelling. They must be at least 50 square feet in floor area,
and at least 7 feet high. They must be located so as to be easily accessible for large items,
such as barbecues, bicycles, and sports equipment.
5. Sound insulation. The density bonus for this amenity is 10 percent. To qualify for this
bonus, the interior noise levels of residential structures must be reduced in 3 ways. The
reductions address noise from adjacent dwellings and from outdoors, especially from busy
streets.
a. The sound insulation of all party walls, walls between corridors and units, and in
floor-ceiling assemblies must comply with a Sound Transmission Class (STC) of 55 (50
if field-tested). STC standards are stated in the Oregon Structural Specialty Code (the
Uniform Building Code as amended by the State of Oregon).
b. The STC rating on all entrance doors assemblies from interior corridors must be at
least 30, as documented by acoustic laboratory tests of the doors.
c. The STC rating on all windows, skylights, and exterior doors, must be at least 35, as
documented by acoustic laboratory tests.
6. Crime prevention. The density bonus for this amenity is 10 percent. The bonus is allowed
if all units have security features which comply with items 1 through 6 of the Residential
Security Recommendations of the Portland Police Bureau. In addition, exterior lights
which comply with the lighting standards of the Crime Prevention Division of the Portland
Police Bureau must be provided. Development plans must be certified by the Crime
Prevention Division of the Portland Police Bureau as complying with these provisions.

Commentary

Page 138 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.265 Amenity Bonuses

See previous commentary.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 139
 Zoning Code Amendments
7. Solar water heating. The density bonus for this amenity is 5 percent. The bonus is allowed
if solar-heated water is provided to all units. Systems may be active or passive. Systems
must qualify for the Oregon State solar energy tax credit or be rated by the Solar Rating
and Certification Corporation (SRRC). Applicants must provide documentation that the
provisions are met.
8. Larger required outdoor areas. The density bonus for this amenity is 5 percent. To qualify
for this amenity, at least 96 square feet of outdoor area is required for each dwelling unit.
All other standards of 33.120.240, above, must be met.
9. Tree preservation. Development proposals that preserve more than the required number
or percentage of the trees on the site may receive up to a maximum of 10 percent density
bonus. The density bonus that may be received for each tree that is preserved in addition
to those required to be preserved on the site is shown in Table 120-5.
Table 120-5
Density Bonus for Tree Preservation in Multi-Dwelling Zones
Diameter of Tree Preserved Density Bonus
12 to 20 inches 2 percent
20 to 36 inches 3 percent
36 inches or greater  5 percent
Each tree counted toward the bonus must be documented in an arborist report that the
following are met:
a. Be at least 12 inches in diameter;
b. Not be dead, dying, or dangerous; and
c. Not be on the Nuisance Plants List.

Commentary

Page 140 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.270 Alternative Development Options
C. Attached houses

Amendments to this paragraph reflect the following:
 Provisions specific to the R3 zone are not needed, as the R3 is being combined with the R2
zones to create the new RM1 zone.
 Building setbacks and building coverage regulations are being amended to match similar setback
and building coverage standards for attached houses in single-dwelling zones.
 Subparagraph 7 is being deleted because it is no longer needed due to proposed limitations on
front garages in Section 33.120.283 that apply to attached houses (see pages 168-173).

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 141
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.270 Alternative Development Options
A. Purpose. The alternative development options provide increased variety in development while
maintaining the residential neighborhood character. The options are intended to:
 Accommodate a diversity of housing types and tenures;
 Encourage development which is more sensitive to the environment, especially in
hilly areas;
 Encourage the preservation of open and natural areas;
 Promote better site layout and opportunities for private recreational areas;
 Allow for greater flexibility within a development site while limiting impacts to the
surrounding neighborhood;
 Promote more opportunities for affordable housing; and
 Allow more energy-efficient development.;
 Reduce the impact that new development may have on surrounding
residential development.;
 Allow a greater sense of enclosure within common greens and shared courts; and
 Ensure adequate open area within common greens.
B. General requirements for all alternative development options. The alternative development
options listed in this section are allowed by right unless it is specifically stated otherwise. They
must conform with all other development standards of the base zone unless those standards
are superseded by the ones in this section. Sites in the RMP zone are not eligible for alternative
development options.
C. Attached houses. The development standards for attached housing are:
1. Density, height, and other development standards. The minimum and maximum density,
height, building length, landscaped areas, required outdoor area, and window
requirements of the base zone apply.
2. Lot size. See 33.612, Lots in Multi-Dwelling Zones, for lot size information.
3. Number of units. In the R3 zone, up to 8 attached houses may have common walls.
34. Building setbacks.
a. Perimeter building setbacks. The front, side, and rear building setbacks around the
perimeter of an attached housing project are those of the base zone. The setback
standards stated in Table 120-4 apply to the combined areas of the plane of each
unit’s building wall facing the property line. See Figure 120-13 and Section
33.930.080, Determining the Plane of a Building Wall.
b. Interior building setbacks. The side building setback on the side containing the
common or abutting wall is reduced to zero. The reduced setback applies to all
buildings on the lot and extends along the full length of the lot line that contains the
common or abutting wall.
c. Corner lots. On corner lots, either the rear setback or nonstreet side setback can be
reduced to zero. However, the remaining nonstreet setback must comply with the
requirements for a standard rear setback.

Commentary

Page 142 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.270 Alternative Development Options (continued)

Figure 120-13
This figure is being deleted because rear setbacks will no longer be based on the size of the
building wall plane, but will instead be a standard 5-foot setback.

D. Reduced Setbacks for Detached Houses
No major change to this existing exemption, which allows reduced 3-foot side setbacks for
detached houses within the interior of a land division.  On small lots, this allows wider, less “skinny”
houses, and facilitates patterns of small lot detached houses common in some older neighborhoods.
The primary change to this paragraph relates to when in the land division process the reduced
setbacks should be shown and approved.

The Permit Ready houses provision of this paragraph because it refers to a program that has been
discontinued.

Recently-built narrow lot houses with small side setbacks.  The smaller setbacks
allow wider houses on 25’-wide lots (19’ wide, compared to the 15’-wide “skinny”
houses that are built on 25’-wide lots with 5’ side setbacks).
 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 143
 Zoning Code Amendments
45. Building coverage. The maximum building coverage of the base zone applies to the entire
attached housing project, however. Tthe maximum building coverage for an individual lot
is may not exceed 5 percent more than the base zone allowance.
56. Maximum building length. The maximum building length standard stated in Table 120-3
applies to the combined length of the street-facing facades of each unit.
7. Appearance. The intent of this standard is to prevent garages and blank walls from being
the dominant front visual feature. The front facade of an attached house may not include
more than 40 percent of garage wall area. For measurement information, see Chapter
33.930, Measurements.
Figure 120-13
Measuring Setback Standard for Attached Houses and Duplexes

D. Reduced setbacks for Ddetached houses.
1. Reduced side setbacks. For land divisions that include lots created for detached houses,
where the lots are at least 25 feet wide, the detached houses may have their side setbacks
reduced to 3 feet on lot lines internal to the land division site. The reduced side setbacks
must be shown on the land division Preliminary Plan the supplemental plan of the land
division at the time of final plat approval. Eaves may project up to one foot into the
reduced side setback. All building setbacks around the perimeter of the land division site
are those of the base zone.
2. Permit-Ready houses. Chapter 33.278 contains provisions for Permit-Ready houses on
narrow lots.

Commentary

Page 144 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.270 Alternative Development Options (continued)
E.  Additional standards for attached houses, detached houses, and duplexes accessed by
common greens, shared courts, or alleys

No significant changes to this page.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 145
 Zoning Code Amendments
E. Additional standards for attached houses, detached houses, and duplexes accessed by
common greens, shared courts, or alleys. These standards promote courtyard-oriented
housing by facilitating the use of common greens and shared courts as part of housing projects
on small sites. Standards within this section also promote pedestrian-oriented street frontages
by facilitating the creation of rear alleys and allowing more efficient use of space above rear
vehicle areas.
1. When these standards apply. These standards apply when the proposal includes a
common green, shared court, or alley;
2. Minimum density in RM1R2 and RM2R1 zones. The minimum density in the RM1R2 zone
is 1 unit per 3,000 square feet. The minimum density in the RM2R1 zone is 1 unit per
2,000 square feet;
3. Accessory structures.
a. Covered accessory structures for the common use of residents are allowed within
common greens and shared courts. Covered accessory structures include gazebos,
garden structures, greenhouses, picnic areas, play structures and bike parking areas;
b. Structures for recycling or waste disposal are allowed within common greens, shared
courts, private alleys, or parked tracts;
4. Setbacks.
a. The front and side minimum building setbacks from common greens and shared
courts are reduced to 3 feet; and
(1) Minor architectural features such as eaves, awnings, and trellises are allowed in
this setback; and
(2) On corner lots where there is one street lot line on a public street and one
street lot line is on the common green or shared court, up to 30 percent of the
area of the building facade facing the common green or shared court may
extend into this setback. At least 30 percent of the area extending into this
setback must include windows or glass block. Porches are exempt from the
window standard.
b. The setbacks of garage entrances accessed from a shared court must be either 5 feet
or closer to the shared court property line, or 18 feet or further from the shared
court property line. If the garage entrance is located within 5 feet of the shared court
property line, it may not be closer to the property line than the residential portion of
the building.

Commentary

Page 146 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.270 Alternative Development Options
E.  Additional standards for attached houses, detached houses, and duplexes accessed by
common greens, shared courts, or alleys (continued)

The maximum height provisions of subparagraph E.5 are mostly being deleted due to changes to
related height standards in the RM1 (R1) and RM3 and RM4 (RH) zones elsewhere in this chapter.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 147
 Zoning Code Amendments
c. For accessory structures in common greens, shared courts, private alleys, or parking
tracts, the setbacks are:
(1) Adjacent to a public street. The minimum setback from a public street is
10 feet;
(2) Setback from project perimeter. If the common green, shared court, private
alley, or parking tract abuts the perimeter property line of the project, the
minimum setback for the accessory structure is 5 feet. The perimeter property
line of the project is the boundary of the site before development;
(3) Setback from all other lot lines. The minimum setback from all other lot lines is 3
feet;
5. Maximum height. Accessory structures in common greens, shared courts, private alleys, or
parking tracts may be up to 15 feet high.
a. In the R1 and RH zones, where the front lot line abuts a shared court:
(1) In the R1 zone, the maximum building height within 10 feet of a front property
line abutting a shared court is 45 feet.
(2) In the RH zone, the maximum building height within 10 feet of a front property
line abutting a shared court is 65 feet.
b. Accessory structures in common greens, shared courts, private alleys, or parking
tracts may be up to 15 feet high.
6. Building coverage.
a. When a land division proposal includes common greens, shared courts, or private
alleys, maximum building coverage is calculated based on the entire land division
site, rather than for each lot.
(1) Buildings or structures in common greens, shared courts, private alleys, or
parking tracts are included in the calculation for building coverage for the land
division site;
(2) The combined building coverage of all buildings and structures in common
greens or shared courts may not exceed 15 percent of the total area of the
common greens or shared courts.
(3) Any amount of building coverage remaining from the calculation for the area of
the common green, shared court, alley, or parking tract will be allocated evenly
to all of the lots within the land division, unless a different allocation of the
building is approved through the land division decision. The building coverage
allocated to the lots will be in addition to the maximum allowed for each lot.
b. For attached houses, uncovered rear balconies that extend over an alley or vehicle
maneuvering area between the house and rear lot line do not count toward
maximum building coverage calculations.

Commentary

Page 148 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.270 Alternative Development Options

E.  Additional standards for attached houses, detached houses, and duplexes accessed by
common greens, shared courts, or alleys (continued)

Garages fronting onto shared courts.  This subparagraph is added to allow shared courts to
continue to function to take garages off the public street frontage by clustering garages on the
shared court. Standards are derived from what had been the general garage limitation, which
provided an allowance for single-width (12 feet) garages. The requirement for living space above the
garage has been continued here, but not the allowance to alternatively have a covered balcony.

F. Attached duplexes
This subparagraph is being amended because the garage wall limitation is no longer needed, due to
new limitations on front garages in Section 33.120.283 (see pages 170-173).  Code language for
building setbacks is also being modified to be consistent with similar regulations that apply to
attached houses.

G. Duplexes on corners
This paragraph is being deleted, due to the discontinuation of the R3 zone where it applied.

Shared court. This configuration avoids having garages
along the public street frontage, but often necessitates
garages clustered closely on the shared court.
 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 149
 Zoning Code Amendments
7. Garages fronting onto shared courts. For garages accessory to houses or detached houses
that are less than 24 feet wide that front onto shared courts, the length of the garage wall
facing the shared court may be up to 12 feet long if there is interior living area above the
garage.  The living area must be set back no more than 4 feet from the garage wall facing
the shared court.
F. Attached duplexes. The attached duplex regulations allow for an alternative housing type that
promotes owner-occupied structures, the efficient use of land, and for energy-conserving
housing.
1. Lot size. Each attached duplex must be on a lot that complies with the lot size standard for
new lots of the base zone.
2. Building setbacks. The setback standards stated in Table 120-4 apply to the combined
areas of the plane of each unit’s building wall facing the property line. See Figure 120-13
and Section 33.930.080, Determining the Plane of a Building Wall.
a. Interior (non-corner) lots. On interior lots, tThe side building setback on the side
containing the common wall is reduced to zero.
b. Corner lots. On corner lots, either the rear setback or non-street side setback may be
reduced to zero. However, the remaining non-street setback must comply with the
requirements for a standard rear setback.
3. Number of units. A maximum of 2 units per lot and 4 units per structure is allowed.
4. Appearance. The intent of this standard is to prevent garages and blank walls from being
the dominant front visual feature. The front facade of an attached duplex may not include
more than 40 percent of garage wall area. For measurement information, see Chapter
33.930, Measurements.
G. Duplexes on corners. Duplexes on corners are allowed in the R3 zone on lots where only one
dwelling unit would otherwise be allowed. This provision allows the construction of new
duplexes in locations where their appearance and impact will be compatible with the
surrounding development. Duplexes on corner lots can be designed so each unit is oriented
towards a different street. This gives the duplex the overall appearance of a house when
viewed from either street.
1. Qualifying situations. This provision applies to corner lots in the R3 zone. This provision
applies only to new development. Conversion of existing housing is prohibited under the
regulations of this subsection.
2. Density and lot size. One extra dwelling unit is allowed. The lot must comply with the
minimum lot size standard for new lots in the base zone.
3. Additional site development standards. Each unit of the duplex must have its address,
front door, driveway, and parking area or garage oriented to a separate
street frontage.

Commentary

Page 150 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.270 Alternative Development Options (continued)

I. Flag lot development standards

These regulations are being moved to a new section (33.120.284 Additional Development Standards
for Flag Lots), for consistency with code section restructuring proposed by the Residential Infill
Project.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 151
 Zoning Code Amendments
GH. Planned Development. See Chapter 33.638, Planned Development.
I. Flag lot development standards. The development standards for flag lots include specific
screening and setback requirements to protect the privacy of abutting residences. The
following standards apply to development on flag lots created before July 1, 2002:
1. Setbacks. Flag lots have required building setbacks that are the same along all lot lines.
The required setbacks are:
Zone Setback
R3, R2, R1, RH 10 feet
2. Landscaped buffer area. In the R3 through RH zones, on lots that are 10,000 square feet or
less in area, a landscaped area is required around the perimeter of the flag lot to buffer
the flag portion from surrounding lots. The pole and the lot line that separates the flag lot
and the lot from which it was divided are exempt from this requirement. The landscaped
area must be at least 3 feet deep and be landscaped to at least the L3 standard. See Figure
120-8.
Figure 120-8
Flag Lot Description and Buffer

Commentary

Page 152 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.275 Development Standards for Institutions

This section is mostly unchanged, except for the following:
 Daycare uses are being excluded from the standards of this section (such as allowances for 75
building height and other development standards unique to Institutional uses), because Daycare
uses do not have the same needs as the large-scale institutional uses for which the standards
are intended, and can be accommodated by the regular base zone development standards.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 153
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.275 Development Standards for Institutions
A. Purpose. The general base zone development standards in the R3 through RXmulti-dwelling
zones are designed for residential buildings. Different development standards are needed for
institutional uses which may be allowed in multi-dwelling zones. The intent is to maintain
compatibility with and limit the negative impacts on surrounding residential areas.
B. Use categories to which these standards apply. Except for Daycare uses, Tthe standards of this
section apply to uses in the institutional group of use categories in the R3 through RXmulti-
dwelling zones, whether allowed by right, allowed with limitations, or subject to a conditional
use review. Daycare uses are subject to the regular base zone development standards. The
standards of this section apply to new development, exterior alterations, and conversions to
institutional uses. Recreational fields used for organized sports on a school, school site, or in a
park, are subject to the regulations of Chapter 33.279, Recreational Fields for Organized Sports
C. The standards.
1. The development standards are stated in Table 120-57. If not addressed in this section,
the regular base zone development standards apply.
2. Setbacks on a transit street or in a Pedestrian District. If the minimum setback conflicts
with the maximum setback, the maximum setback supersedes the minimum.
3. Exterior storage. Exterior storage of materials or equipment is prohibited.
4. Outdoor activity facilities. Except as specified in paragraph C.5, below, outdoor activity
facilities, such as swimming pools, basketball courts, tennis courts, or baseball diamonds
must be set back 50 feet from abutting R-zoned properties. Playground facilities must be
set back 25 feet from abutting R-zoned properties if not illuminated, and 50 feet if
illuminated.
5. Recreational fields used for organized sports. Recreational fields used for organized sports
on a school, school site, or in a park, are subject to Chapter 33.279, Recreational Fields for
Organized Sports.
6. Electrical substations. In addition to the standards in Table 120-57, the entire perimeter of
electrical substations, including the street lot line (except for the access point), must be
landscaped to the L3 standards stated in Chapter 33.248. This landscaping must be
planted on the outside of any security fence. Electrical substations that are in a fully
enclosed building are exempt from this requirement.
7. Grassy areas. Grassy play areas, golf courses, cemeteries, and natural areas are not subject
to the high hedge buffering standard and are exempt from the setback standard of
Paragraph C.2, above.
8. Access for accessory Retail Sales And Service Uses. Areas occupied by an accessory Retail
Sales And Service use may have no direct access to the outside of the building. Access to
the area must be from an interior space or from an exterior space that is at least 150 feet
from a public right-of-way.
9. Exterior signage for accessory Retail Sales And Service uses is prohibited.

Commentary

Page 154 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
Table 120-7
Institutional Development Standards

No substantial changes to this table.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 155
 Zoning Code Amendments

Table 120-57
Institutional Development Standards [1]

Minimum Site Area for New Uses

10,000 sq. ft.
Maximum Floor Area Ratio [2] 2 to 1
Maximum Height [3] 75 ft.
Minimum Building Setbacks [2] 1 ft. back for every 2 ft. of bldg. height, but in no
case less than 10 ft.
Maximum Building Coverage [2] 70% of site area
Minimum Landscaped Area [2,4] 20% of site area
Buffering from Abutting Residential Zone [5] 10 ft. to L3 standard
Buffering Across a Street from a Residential Zone [5] 10 ft. to L1 standard
Setbacks for All Detached Accessory Structures Except
Fences

10 ft.
Parking and Loading See Chapter 33.266, Parking And Loading
Signs See Title 32, Signs and Related Regulations
Notes:
[1] The standards of this table are minimums or maximums as indicated. Compliance with the conditional use
approval criteria might preclude development to the maximum intensity permitted by these standards.
[2] For campus-type developments, the entire campus is treated as one site. Setbacks are only measured
from the perimeter of the site. The setbacks in this table only supersede the setbacks required in Table 120-3.
The normal regulations for projections into setbacks and for detached accessory structures still apply.
[3] Towers and spires with a footprint of 200 square feet or less may exceed the height limit, but still must
comply with the setback standard.
[4] Any required landscaping, such as for required setbacks or parking lots, applies towards the landscaped
area standard.
[5] Surface parking lotsVehicle areas are subject to the parking lot setback and landscaping standards stated
in Chapter 33.266, Parking, And Loading, and Transportation and Parking Demand Management.

Commentary

Page 156 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.280 Detached Accessory Structures

No significant changes to this page, except for additional clarifying purpose statement language and
replacement of the term “separation of ownership” with “lot confirmation”.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 157
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.280 Detached Accessory Structures
A. Purpose. This section regulates detached structures that are incidental to primary buildings to
prevent them from becoming the predominant element of the site. The standards limit the
height and bulk of the structures and promote compatibility of design for larger accessory
structures when they are in conjunction with single-dwelling development. The standards
provide for necessary access around structures, help maintain privacy to abutting lots, provide
flexibility for the location of accessory structures, and maintain open front yard areas.
B. General standards.
1. The regulations of this section apply to all accessory structures. Additional regulations for
accessory dwelling units are stated in Chapter 33.205.
2. Detached accessory structures are allowed on a site only in conjunction with a primary
building and may not exist on a site prior to the construction of the primary structure,
except as allowed by Paragraph B.3, below.
3. A detached accessory structure that becomes the only structure on a lot as the result of a
land division, a property line adjustment, a lot confirmationseparation of ownership, or a
demolition of the primary structure may remain on the lot if the owner has executed a
covenant with the City that meets the requirements of Section 33.700.060.
a. For a land division, the covenant must require the owner to remove the accessory
structure if, within two years of final plat approval, a primary structure has not been
built and received final inspection. The covenant must be executed with the City
prior to final plat approval.
b. For a property line adjustment or a lot confirmationseparation of ownership, the
covenant must require the owner to remove the accessory structure if a primary
structure has not been built and received final inspection within two years. The two
years begins on the date the letter from BDS approvingconfirming the property line
adjustment or lot confirmationseparation of ownership is mailed. The covenant must
be executed with the City before the final letter from BDS is issued.
c. For a demolition of a primary structure, the covenant must require the owner to
remove the accessory structure if a new primary structure has not been built and
received final inspection within two years of the demolition of the old primary
structure. The two years begins on the date of the final inspection of the demolition.
The covenant must be executed with the City prior to the issuance of the demolition
permit.

Commentary

Page 158 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.280 Detached Accessory Structures (continued)
C. Detached covered accessory structures.

This paragraph is being amended to provide the same allowances for small accessory structures to
be located in required setbacks that currently apply to houses, attached houses and duplexes, so
that this allowance applies to all development in the multi-dwelling zones.  The intent is to
facilitate efficient site design, including compact multi-dwelling buildings on small sites, which
provides opportunities for small-scale development that can continue neighborhood patterns
(see commentary on page 120).  This will allow small accessory structures, such as bike sheds
and recycling facilities, in the required setbacks to allow for more efficient use of the limited
amount of site area available on the small sites typical of multi-dwelling development in
Portland.

The amendments include an allowance for detached covered accessory structures to be located in
side or rear setbacks as close as 10 feet (instead of the current 40 feet) from a street lot line (but
no closer than the closest primary building). This is intended to reflect the characteristics of
multi-dwelling zones, where buildings are typically clustered closer to the street than is the case
with single-dwelling zones.

Images shows small accessory structures set back from
side property line (left edge of image). Proposed
amendments will allow such structures to be located
within required side and rear setbacks of multi-dwelling
development, allowing for more space-efficient
arrangements and usable outdoor space.
 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 159
 Zoning Code Amendments
C.  Detached covered accessory structures. Detached covered accessory structures are items such
as garages, greenhouse, artist’s studios, guest houses, accessory dwelling units, laundry or
community buildings, storage buildings, wood sheds, water collection cisterns, and covered
decks or patios. The following standards apply to all detached covered accessory buildings.
Garages are also subject to the standards of 33.120.283.
1. Height. In general, the height standard of the base zone apply to detached covered
accessory structures.  The maximum height allowed for detached covered structures that
are accessory to a house, attached house, duplex, attached duplex or manufactured home
on an individual lot is 20 feet.
2. Setbacks. Except as follows, detached covered accessory structures are subject to required
building setbacks. See the additional regulations for garages in 33.120.283.
a. Water collection cisterns that are 6 feet or less in height are allowed in side and rear
setbacks.
b. In the multi-dwelling zones dDetached covered accessory structures accessory to a
house, attached house, duplex, attached duplex or manufactured home on an
individual lot are allowed in the side and rear building setbacks, if all of the following
are met:
(1) The structure is at least 4010 feet from a frontstreet lot line or no closer to a
street line than the closest primary building, whichever distance is greater; and
if on a corner lot, at least 20 feet from a side street lot line;
(2) The structure’s footprint has dimensions that do not exceed 24 feet by 24 feet,
excluding eaves;
(3) If more than one structure is within the setback, the combined length of all
structures in the setback adjacent to each property line is no more than
24 feet;
(4) The structure is no more than 15 feet high, and the walls of the structure are no
more than 10 feet high, excluding the portion of the wall
within a gable;
(5) The portion of the structure within the setback must be screened from adjoining
lots by a fence or landscaping, unless it is enclosed within the setback by a wall.
Screening is not required for enclosed structures. Screening must comply with
the L3 or F2 standards of Chapter 33.248, Landscaping and Screening;

Commentary

Page 160 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.280 Detached Accessory Structures (continued)
C. Detached covered accessory structures.

The changes to the regulations on this page bring consistency with similar regulations in the single-
dwelling zones proposed by the Residential Infill Project.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 161
 Zoning Code Amendments
(6) Walls located within the setback may not have doors or windows facing the
adjacent lot line;
(7) The structure does not have a rooftop deck; and
(8) Dormers are set back at least 5 feet from the side and rear lot lines that abut
another lot.
3. Building coverage. The following additional building coverage standards apply to detached
covered accessory structures.
a. The combined building coverage of all detached covered accessory structures may
not exceed 15 percent of the total area of the site.
b. The building coverage of a detached covered accessory structure may not be greater
than the building coverage of the primary structure.
4. Additional development standards for detached covered accessory structures. The
following additional standards apply to detached covered accessory structures that are
more than 15 feet high, and are accessory to houses, attached houses, duplexes, attached
duplexes, and manufactured homes, triplexes, or fourplexes on individual lots. Additions
to existing structures that do not meet a standard are exempt from that standard.
a. Exterior Finish Materials. The exterior finish materials on the detached covered
accessory structure must meet one of the following:
(1) The exterior finish material must be the same or visually match in type, size and
placement, the exterior finish material of the primary structure; or
(2) Siding must be made from wood, composite boards, vinyl or aluminum
products, and the siding must be composed in a shingle pattern, or in a
horizontal clapboard or shiplap pattern. The boards in the pattern must be 6
inches or less in width.
b. Roof Pitch. The roof pitch of the roof with the highest ridgeline on the detached
covered accessory structure must meet one of the following:
(1) The predominant roof pitch of the roof with the highest ridgeline must be the
same as the predominant roof pitch of the roof with the highest ridgeline of the
primary structure; or
(2) The pitch of the roof with the highest ridgeline must be at least 6/12.
c. Trim. The trim on the detached covered accessory structure must meet one of the
following:
(1) The trim must be the same in type, size, and location as the trim used on the
primary structure; or
(2) The trim around all windows and doors must be at least 3 ½ inches wide.

Commentary

Page 162 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.280 Detached Accessory Structures (continued)
C. Detached covered accessory structures.

No changes to the regulations on this page.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 163
 Zoning Code Amendments
d. Windows. The windows on all street facing facades of the detached covered
accessory structure must meet one of the following:
(1) The windows must match those on the street facing façade of the primary
structure in orientation (horizontal or vertical); or
(2) Each window must be square or vertical – at least as tall as it is wide.
e. Eaves. The eaves on the detached covered accessory structure must meet one of the
following:
(1) The eaves must project from the building walls the same distance as the eaves
on the primary structure;
(2) The eaves must project from the building walls at least 1 foot on all elevations;
or
(3) If the primary structure has no eaves, no eaves are required.

Commentary

Page 164 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.280 Detached Accessory Structures (continued)
D. Detached uncovered vertical structures

Changes to this paragraph will provide consistent standards for detached uncovered accessory
structures, regardless of the type of housing on the site.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 165
 Zoning Code Amendments
D. Detached uncovered vertical structures. Vertical structures are items such as flag poles,
trellises, arbors, and other garden structures, play structures, antennas, satellite receiving
dishes, and lamp posts. The following standards apply to uncovered vertical structures. Fences
are addressed in Section 33.120.285 below:
1. Height. Except as follows, the maximum height allowed for all detached uncovered vertical
structures is the maximum height of the base zone. The maximum height allowed for
detached uncovered vertical structures accessory to a house, attached house, duplex,
attached duplex or manufactured home on an individual lot is 20 feet:
a. Antennas, utility power poles, and public safety facilities are exempt from
height limits.
b. Flagpoles are subject to the height limit of the base zone for primary structures.
c. Detached small wind turbines are subject to the standards of 33.299.
2. Setbacks. Except as follows, detached uncovered vertical structures are subject to the
required building setbacks:
a. Detached uncovered vertical structures that are no larger than 3 feet in width, depth,
or diameter and no taller than 8 feet are allowed in required building setback.
b. A single arbor structure that is up to 6 feet wide, up to 3 feet deep, and up to 8 feet
tall is allowed in a front setback. The arbor must allow for pedestrian access under its
span.
c. Flagpoles are allowed in required building setbacks.
d. Detached uncovered vertical structures that are accessory to a house, attached
house, duplex, attached duplex, and manufactured home that exceed the allowances
of Subparagraph 2.a are allowed in side and rear setbacks if all of the following are
met:
(1) The structure is at least 40 feet from a front lot line, and if on a corner lot, at
least 20 feet from a side street lot line;
(2) The structure’s footprint has dimensions that do not exceed 24 feet by 24 feet;
and
(3) The structure is no more than 10 feet high;
(4) The portion of the structure within the setback must be screened from adjoining
lots by a fence or landscaping, unless it is enclosed within the setback by a wall.
Screening is not required for enclosed structures. Screening must comply with
the L3 or F2 standards of Chapter 33.248, Landscaping and Screening; and
(5) The structure does not have a rooftop deck.

Commentary

Page 166 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.280 Detached Accessory Structures (continued)

E. Detached uncovered horizontal structures.
No changes.

F. Detached mechanical equipment.
Unlike other changes allowing detached accessory structures in required setbacks, the existing
limitation on mechanical equipment in required setbacks is being retained because of the greater
impacts of mechanical equipment for projects with larger numbers of units (mechanical noise, etc.).
Triplexes and fourplexes have been added to the small housing types exception, to be consistent
with similar regulations in the single-dwelling zones (proposed by RIP).

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 167
 Zoning Code Amendments
E. Detached uncovered horizontal structures. Uncovered horizontal structures are items such as
decks, stairways, swimming pools, hot tubs, tennis courts, and boat docks not covered or
enclosed. The following standards apply to detached uncovered horizontal structures:
1. Height. In general, the maximum height allowed for detached uncovered vertical
structures is the maximum height of the base zone. The maximum height allowed for
detached uncovered vertical structures accessory to a house, attached house, duplex,
attached duplex or manufactured home on an individual lot is 20 feet.
2. Setbacks. Except as follows, detached uncovered horizontal structures are subject to the
required building setbacks:
a. Detached uncovered decks, ramps, and stairways that are more than 2-1/2 feet
above the ground may extend into a required building setback up to 20 percent of
the depth of the setback. However, the deck or stairway must be at least three feet
from a lot line.
b. Structures that are no more than 2-1/2 feet above the ground are allowed in all
building setbacks.
F. Detached mechanical equipment. Mechanical equipment includes items such as heat pumps,
air conditioners, emergency generators, radon mitigation components, and water pumps.
Generally, detached mechanical equipment will not be attached to the building but may have
components such as ventilation or electrical systems attached to the primary structure. The
following standards apply to detached mechanical equipment:
1. Height. In general, the maximum height allowed for detached mechanical equipment is
the maximum height of the base zone. The maximum height allowed for detached
mechanical equipment accessory to a house, attached house, duplex, attached duplex or
manufactured home on an individual lot is 20 feet.
2. Setbacks. Except as follows, detached mechanical equipment is subject to required
building setbacks. Detached mechanical equipment accessory to a house, attached house,
duplex, attached duplex, or manufactured home, triplex, or fourplex on an individual lot is
allowed in side or rear building setbacks if all of the following are met:
a. The equipment is no more than five feet high; and
b. The equipment is screened from adjoining lots by walls, fences or vegetation.
Screening must comply with the L3 or F2 standards of Chapter 33.248, Landscaping
and Screening.

Commentary

Page 168 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.283 Additional Standards for Structured Parking and Garages

Amendments to this section expand its current focus on limiting the prominence of garages
(accessory to houses, attached houses, manufactured houses, and duplexes) to also apply to
structured parking associated with other residential building types, such as apartment buildings and
other multi-dwelling structures and development.  This helps implement policies that call for
buildings to contribute to pedestrian-oriented street environments.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 169
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.283 Additional Development Standards for Structured Parking and Garages
A. Purpose. These standards:
 Together with the window and main entrance standards, ensure that there is a physical
and visual connection between the living area of residential buildingsthe residence and the
street;
 Ensure that the location and amount of the living areas of residential buildings the
residence, as seen from the street, isare more prominent than the structured parking or
garages;
 Prevent structured parking and garages from obscuring the main entrance from the street
and ensure that the main entrance for pedestrians, rather than automobiles, is the
prominent entrance;
 Provide for a more pleasant pedestrian environment by preventing structured parking and
garages and vehicle areas from dominating the views of the neighborhood from the
sidewalk; and
 Enhance public safety by preventing structured parking and garages from blocking views of
the street from inside the residence.
B. Additional regulations. The regulations of this Section apply in addition to those of 33.120.280,
Accessory Structures.
C. Existing detached garages.
1. Rebuilding. A detached garage that is nonconforming due to its location in a setback may
be rebuilt on the footprint of the existing foundation, if the garage was originally
constructed legally. In this case, the rebuilt garage may be no more than 15 feet high, and
the garage walls may be no more than 10 feet high, excluding the portion of the wall
within a gable. Decks are not allowed on the roof of the garage. The rebuilt garage is not
required to comply with other standards of this chapter.
2. Additions. An addition may be made to an existing detached garage that is nonconforming
due to its location in a setback as follows:
a. The expanded garage meets all other standards of this chapter; or
b. The combined size of the existing foundation and the addition is no larger than 12
feet wide by 20 feet deep. In this case, the garage is no more than 15 feet high, and
the walls of the addition may be no more than 10 feet high, excluding the portion of
the wall within a gable. Decks are not allowed on the roof of the garage. The
expanded garage is not required to comply with other standards of this chapter.

Commentary

Page 170 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.283 Additional Standards for Structured Parking and Garages (continued)
D. Length of street-facing walls of structured parking and garages
Currently, there are few limitations on front garages and
structured parking for most housing types in the multi-dwelling
zones.  Current regulations limit front garages from occupying
more than 50 percent of the width of detached houses, but
provide an exemption that allows houses to always have a 12-foot
wide garage, meaning that there is not an effective limit on front
garages for the narrow-lot houses common in some of the multi-
dwelling zones, and there are currently no limits on the front
garages of attached houses (as in image) or any multi-dwelling
housing types.
The proposed amendments will limit structured parking and garages from occupying more than half
of the street-facing facades of all housing types.  For narrow attached houses, the limit will apply
to the combined frontage of attached units, allowing for a mix of units with and without front
garages, and preserving some on-street parking (see page 172). This will promote arrangements such
as the following:

Overall, the 50 percent limitation will apply in more situations than currently, but with exemptions
for:
 Structured parking located more than 40 feet from street lot lines, to accommodate portions
of multi-dwelling developments that are not located close to streets;
 Parking accessed from shared courts (where garages do not front on public street frontages);
 Structured parking that is partially underground;
 Secondary street frontages, with priority placed on
limiting vehicle facilities along streets with higher
transit classifications.
Note that other amendments will require that small sites
that abut an alley provide parking access from the alley
(see page 221). The alley access requirements will apply
to multi-dwelling development on lots up to 10,000 square
feet in size.  The limits will also apply to the primary frontage of
buildings with ground-level structured parking.
Rear parking arrangements, or options with no off-
street parking.
Front garages that takes up no more than half of
street frontages (above and below)
 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 171
 Zoning Code Amendments
D. Length of street-facing garage or structured parking wall
1. Where these regulations apply. The regulations of this subsection apply to structured
parking and garages that are accessory to houses, manufactured homes on individual lots,
and duplexes in multi-dwelling zones. Where a proposal is for an alteration or addition to
existing development, the standard applies only to the portion being altered or added.
2. Exemptions.
a. Garages that are accessory to attached houses, dDevelopment on flag lots and, or
development on lots whichthat slope up or down from the street with an average
slope of 20 percent or more are exempt from the standard of this sSubsection.
b. Garages and structured parking that are located more than 40 feet from a street lot
line and sites where all parking access is from a shared court are exempt from the
standards of this Subsection.
cb. Subdivisions and PUDs that received preliminary plan approval between September
9, 1990, and September 9, 1995, are exempt from the standard of this subsection.
d. Structured parking where the elevation of the floor is 4 feet or more below the
lowest elevation of an adjacent right-of-way is exempt from the standards of this
Subsection.
ec. On corner lots:,
(1) Garages. On corner lots, only the street-facing garage wall that contains the
garage door must meet the standards of this Subsection.
(2) Structured parking. On corner lots, only one street-facing façade of a building
with structured parkinggarage wall must meet the standards of this sSubsection.
For sites with more than one street frontage, the standards of this Subsection
must be met along the street with the highest transit street classification. If two
or more streets have the same highest transit street classification, then the
standards must be met on the longest street-facing façade located within 40
feet of a street lot line. If two or more streets have the same highest transit
street classification and the street-facing facades are the same length, the
applicant may choose on which of those streets to meet the standards.
3. Standards.
a. Garages that are accessory to houses. For garages that are accessory to houses or
manufactured homes, Tthe length of the garage wall facing the street may be up to
50 percent of the length of the street-facing building façade. See Figure 120-129.
Where the street-facing facade is less than 22 feet long, an attached garage is not
allowed as part of that façade.

Commentary

Page 172 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.283 Additional Standards for Structured Parking and Garages (continued)
D. Length of street-facing walls of structured parking and garages

The garage and structured parking limitation standards are similar to standards in the single-
dwelling zones proposed by the Residential Infill Project.  The standards include a provision for
attached houses indicating that the 50% limit applies to each individual façade, or can be calculated
based on the combined façade width of attached houses.  This allows regulations to apply similarly
to both attached houses on individual lots and to otherwise similar townhouses on undivided lots.
The requirement for the portion of multi-dwelling structures and attached houses with four or
more units that is not garage to be contiguous is intended to ensure that the majority of the
façade (or combined façades) is not interrupted by garages or structured parking (see Figure 120-
13 on page 177).  Without this contiguous façade requirement, analysis indicates that a row of five
attached houses or townhouse units on a 100-foot wide site could meet the standard with four units
that each have front garages that exceed the 50% limit on a per unit basis, but could meet the
combined façade calculation by having a fifth attached unit with no front garage on the same
frontage. This would result in multiple front garages, driveways, and curb cuts, counter to
objectives for limiting such features.
Amendments on this page also remove the exemption (former paragraph 4) that allowed structures
on narrow lots (primarily houses) to have a front garage up to 12 feet wide, which resulted in narrow
lot houses whose primary ground-level features were front garages.

The amendments are intended to limit front garages but provide flexibility for some units (including
attached houses) to have front garages when the majority of the length of the building (or the combined
facades of attached houses) does not have garages. The amendments will allow configurations similar to
these examples, regardless of whether they are duplexes, triplexes, or attached houses.
 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 173
 Zoning Code Amendments
b. Garages that are accessory to attached houses. The following standards apply to
garages that are accessory to attached houses and attached duplexes:
(1) The length of the garage wall facing the street may be up to 50 percent of the
length of the street facing building façade. See Figure 120-12. When all the units
are 22 feet wide or wider, the standard applies to the street-facing façade of
each unit. In all other situations, the standard applies to the total length of the
street-facing facade; and
(2) When the attached house structure is made up of more than three attached
houses and at least one attached house is less than 22 feet wide, at least 50
percent of the total length of the street-facing facade must be without garage,
and the 50 percent length without garage must be contiguous. See Figure 120-
13.
c. Garages and structured parking that are accessory to all other residential structure
types. The following standards apply to garages and structured parking that are
accessory to all residential structure types:
(1) The length of the garage or structured parking wall facing the street may be up
to 50 percent of length of the street-facing building façade. See Figure 120-12.
Where the length of the street-facing facade is less than 22 feet long, an
attached garage and structured parking are not allowed; and
(2) For a fourplex or a multi-dwelling structure, at least 50 percent of the total
length of the street-facing building facade must be without garage or structured
parking, and the 50 percent length without garage or structured parking must
be contiguous. See Figure 120-13.
4. Exception. Where the street-facing facade of the building is less than 24 feet long, the
garage wall facing the street may be up to 12 feet long if there is one of the following. See
Figure 120-10.
a. Interior living area above the garage. The living area may be set back no more than 4
feet from the street-facing garage wall, or
b. A covered balcony above the garage that is at least the same length as the street-
facing garage wall, at least 6 feet deep, and accessible from the interior living area of
the dwelling unit.

Commentary

Page 174 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.283 Additional Standards for Structured Parking and Garages (continued)
E. Street lot line setbacks

The street lot line setback standards are being modified so that the limitations on garages
extending in front of the rest of the building also apply to structured parking and all housing types.
Changes include replacing “dwelling unit” with “building” so that the standard works for more types
of residential structures, such as multi-dwelling structures with multiple units.  Other changes are
intended to bring consistency with similar regulations in the single-dwelling zones.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 175
 Zoning Code Amendments
E. Street lot line setbacks.
1. Where this standard applies. The standard of this paragraph applies to structured parking
and garages that are accessory to houses, attached houses, manufactured homes on their
own lots, and duplexes in multi-dwelling zones. Where a proposal is for an alteration or
addition to existing development, the standard applies only to the portion being altered or
added.
2. Exemptions.
a. Development on flag lots or on lots whichthat slope up or down from the street with
an average slope of 20 percent or more are exempt from this standard.
b. Subdivisions and PUDs that received preliminary plan approval between September
9, 1990, and September 9, 1995, are exempt from this standard.
c. Where a lot has more than one street lot line, and there is an existing dwelling unit
on the lot, this standard must be met only on the street-facing facade on which the
main entrance is located.
3. Standard. A structured parking or garage wall that faces a street may be no closer to the
street lot line than the longest street-facing wall of the building dwelling unit. Where a lot
has more than one street lot line, and there is an existing dwelling unit on the lot, this
standard must be met only on the street-facing facade on which the main entrance is
located. See Figure 120-1114.
4. Exception. A street-facing garage wall may be up to 6 feet in front of the longest street-
facing wall of the building dwelling unit, if:
a. The street-facing garage wall is 40 percent or less of the length of the building
facade; and
b. There is a porch at the main entrance. The garage wall may not be closer to the
street lot line than the front of the porch. See Figure 120-1215. The porch must meet
the following:
(1) The porch must be at least 48 square feet in area and have minimum
dimensions of 6 feet by 6 feet;
(2) The porch must have a solid roof; and
(3) The roof may not be more than 12 feet above the floor of the porch.

Commentary

Page 176 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.283 Additional Standards for Structured Parking and Garages (continued)

Figure 120-12
No change, except to figure number.

Figure 120-10
This figure is being deleted, as the exception it illustrates is being deleted.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 177
 Zoning Code Amendments

Figure 120-912
Length of Street-Facing Garage Wall

Figure 120-10
Length of Street-Facing Garage Wall Exception

Commentary

Page 178 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.283 Additional Standards for Structured Parking and Garages (continued)

Figure 120-13
This new figure illustrates standards (in 33.120.283.D.3 b and c) in which the limitations on the
length of structured parking and garages is based on the total length of the street-facing building
façade.  For attached houses, where any units are less than 22-feet wide, this illustrates how the
garage limitation measurement applies based on the combined facades of the attached house units,
including the requirement that the portion of the combined facades that is not garage must be at
least 50 percent of the length of the combined facades (this percentage must be contiguous).

Figure 120-14
No changes, except to figure number.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 179
 Zoning Code Amendments
Figure 120-13
Combined Length of Street-Facing Garage Wall

Figure 120-1114
Street Lot Line Setback

Commentary

Page 180 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.283 Additional Standards for Structured Parking and Garages (continued)

Figure 120-15
No changes, except to figure number.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 181
 Zoning Code Amendments

Figure 120-1215
Garage Front Setback Exception

Commentary

Page 182 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.284 Additional Development Standards for Flag Lots

These regulations are essentially unchanged, but have been moved into this new section from
33.120.270 (Alternative Development Options), for consistency with code section restructuring
proposed by the Residential Infill Project.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 183
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.284 Additional Development Standards for Flag Lots
A. Purpose. These standards include required screening and setbacks to protect the privacy of
abutting residences and increase the compatibility of new development on flag lots.
B. Where these standards apply.  The additional standards of this section apply to flag lots in the
multi-dwelling zones created before July 1, 2002.
C. Standards.
1. Setbacks. Flag lots have required building setbacks that are the same along all lot lines.
The required setbacks are:
Zone Setback
RM1, RM2, RM3, RM4 10 feet
2. Landscaped buffer area. In the RM1 through RM4 zones, on lots that are 10,000 square
feet or less in area, a landscaped area is required around the perimeter of the flag lot to
buffer the flag portion from surrounding lots. The pole and the lot line that separates the
flag lot and the lot from which it was divided are exempt from this requirement. The
landscaped area must be at least 3 feet deep and be landscaped to at least the L3
standard. See Figure 120-16.
Figure 120-16
Flag Lot Description and Buffer

Commentary

Page 184 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.285 Fences

This section is being reorganized for greater clarity, dividing the fence standards by housing type,
with separate standards for houses and duplexes, versus other housing types.

The most substantive amendment to this section is that, for multi-dwelling structures and
development, fences are always limited to 3.5 feet in height in required setbacks along street lot
lines (including along pedestrian connections).  Currently, this fence height limitation primarily
applies to the front of lots, which are defined as being the narrower frontage of a corner site.  For
multi-dwelling development on corner sites, the longer “side” setback is often the primary frontage,
where tall fences are not appropriate.  Allowances for 8-foot high fences in some setbacks are
being changed to only apply to houses/attached houses/duplexes, etc., which tend to more
frequently have the narrow dimension of lots correspond to the “front” and have more of a
convention of a private backyard on corner lots.  Unlike some other standards, triplexes and
fourplexes are not grouped with the other small housing types, because on corner lots the majority
of townhouse-type triplexes and fourplexes are oriented to the longer “side” street lot line, where
tall fences would not be appropriate.

Tall fence in front of a new multi-dwelling building along a transit
corridor, which the proposed amendments would not allow. This
change will help implement policies that call for street-oriented
buildings, especially along corridors that are intended to become
pedestrian- and transit-oriented places.
 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 185
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.285 Fences
A. Purpose. The fence standards promote the positive benefits of fences without negatively
impacting the community or endangering public or vehicle safety. Fences can create a sense of
privacy, protect children and pets, provide separation from busy streets, and enhance the
appearance of property by providing attractive landscape materials. The negative effects of
fences can include the creation of street walls that inhibit police and community surveillance,
decrease the sense of community, hinder emergency access, lessen solar access, hinder the
safe movement of pedestrians and vehicles, and create an unattractive appearance. These
standards are intended to promote the positive aspects of fences and to limit the negative
ones.
B. Types of fences. The standards apply to walls, fences, and screens of all types whether open,
solid, wood, metal, wire, masonry, or other material.
C. Location and height.
1. House, attached house, duplex, attached duplex, and manufactured home. The following
fence location and height standards apply to houses, attached houses, duplexes, attached
duplexes, and manufactured homes:
a. Front building setbacks. Fences up to 3-1/2 feet high are allowed in a required front
building setback, or within the first 5 feet of the front lot line, whichever is greater.
b. Side and rear building setback.
(1) Fences up to 8 feet high are allowed in required side or rear building setbacks
that do not a pedestrian connection.
(2) Fences abutting a pedestrian connection.
 Fences up to 8 feet high are allowed in required side or rear building
setbacks that abut a pedestrian connection if the pedestrian connection is
part of a right-of-way that is at least 30 feet wide.
 Fences up to 3-1/2 feet high are allowed in required side or rear building
setbacks that abut a pedestrian connection if the pedestrian connection is
part of a right-of-way that is less than 30 feet wide.
c. Exception for corner lots. On corner lots, if the main entrance is on the facade facing
the side street lot line, the applicant may elect to meet the following instead of
Subparagraphs C.1.a. and C.1.b.:
(1) Fences up to 3-1/2 feet high are allowed within the first 10 feet of the side
street lot line.
(2) Fences up to 3-1/2 feet high are allowed in required setbacks that abut a
pedestrian connection if the pedestrian connection is part of a right-of-way that
is less than 30 feet wide;
(3) Fences up to 8 feet high are allowed in the required front building setback,
outside of the area subject to c(1).
(4) Fences up to 8 feet high are allowed in all other side or rear building setbacks.

Commentary

Page 186 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.285 Fences (continued)

See previous commentary.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 187
 Zoning Code Amendments
d. Not in building setbacks. The height for fences that are not in required building
setbacks is the same as the regular height limits of the zone.
21. All other development. The following fence location and height standards apply to
development that is not a house, attached house, manufactured home, duplex or
attached duplex:
a. Front building setbacks. Fences up to 3-1/2 feet high are allowed in a required front
building setback, or within the first 5 feet of the front lot line, whichever is greater.
b2. Side and rear building setbacks.
(1) Fences up to 3-1/2 feet high are allowed in required side building setbacks that
abut a street.
(2)b. Fences abutting a pedestrian connection.
 (1)Fences up to 8 feet high are allowed in required side or rear building
setbacks that abut a pedestrian connection if the pedestrian connection is
part of a right-of-way that is at least 30 feet wide.
 (2)Fences up to 3-1/2 feet high are allowed in required side or rear building
setbacks that abut a pedestrian connection if the pedestrian connection is
part of a right-of-way that is less than 30 feet wide.
(3)a. Fences up to 8 feet high are allowed in required side or rear building setbacks
that do not abut a street or a pedestrian connection.
3. Exception for corner lots in R3 and R2 zones. On corner lots in the R3 and R2 zones, if
the main entrance is on the facade facing the side street lot line, the applicant may
elect to meet the following instead of C.1. and C.2.:
a. Fences up to 3-1/2 feet high are allowed within the first 10 feet of the side
street lot line.
b. Fences up to 3-1/2 feet high are allowed in required setbacks that abut a
pedestrian connection if the pedestrian connection is part of a right-of-way that
is less than 30 feet wide;
c. Fences up to 8 feet high are allowed in the required front building setback,
outside of the area subject to 3a.
d. Fences up to 8 feet high are allowed in all other side or rear building setbacks.
c4. Not in building setbacks. The height for fences that are not in required building
setbacks is the same as the regular height limits of the zone.
D. Reference to other regulations. Electrified fences are regulated under Title 26, Electrical
Regulations. The use of barbed wire is regulated under Title 24, Building Regulations.

Commentary

Page 188 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments

33.120.330 Street and Pedestrian Connections
The intent of this new section is to require public pedestrian connections, meeting the connectivity
requirements of Title 17, on large sites over 5 acres.  The regulations allow flexibility for the
location of such connections and provide exemptions for environmental overlay zones and steep
slopes.  This section mirrors standards recently adopted for the commercial/mixed use zones.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 189
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.290 Demolitions
A. Generally. Demolition on a site that requires a demolition permit is subject to the tree
preservation and protection requirements of Title 11, Trees. See Chapter 11.50, Trees in
Development Situations.
B. Historic resources. Demolition of historic resources is regulated by Chapter 33.445, Historic
Resource Overlay Zone.
33.120.300 Nonconforming Development
Existing developments that do not conform to the development standards of this chapter may be
subject to the regulations of Chapter 33.258, Nonconforming Situations.
33.120.305 Parking and Loading
The standards for the minimum required and maximum allowed number of auto parking spaces,
required number of bike parking spaces, parking lot placement, parking lot setbacks and landscaping,
loading areas and driveways are stated in Chapter 33.266, Parking And Loading.
33.120.310 Signs
The sign regulations are stated in Title 32, Signs and Related Regulations.
33.120.320 Inclusionary Housing
The regulations pertaining to inclusionary housing are stated in Chapter 33.245, Inclusionary Housing.
33.120.330 Street and Pedestrian Connections
A. Large site pedestrian connectivity.
1. Purpose. The large site pedestrian connectivity standard implements regional pedestrian
and bicycle connectivity standards. The standard enhances direct movement by
pedestrians and bicycles between destinations and increases the convenience of travelling
by foot or bike. The standard also protects public health and safety by ensuring safe
movement and access through a large site. The standard provides flexibility for locating
the pedestrian connection in a manner that addresses site constraints such as existing
development.
2. When does the standard apply. The large site pedestrian connectivity standard applies to
new development and major remodeling on sites that are more than 5 acres in size.
3. Standard. If the site does not have pedestrian connections at least every 330 feet as
measured from the centerline of each connection, then dedication of right-of-way for
pedestrian connections is required.

Commentary

Page 190 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.120.310 Street and Pedestrian Connections (continued)
See previous commentary.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 191
 Zoning Code Amendments
4. Exemptions. Dedication of right-of-way for pedestrian connections is not required in:
a. The Central City plan district; and
b. Areas of a site that are in the Environmental Protection overlay zone, the
Environmental Conservation overlay zone, or have slopes with an average slope of 20
percent or greater. This means that if the 330 feet interval falls in one of these areas,
that pedestrian connection is not required.
5. Pedestrian connection alignment, width and design. The Bureau of Transportation must
approve the alignment of the pedestrian connections. The final alignment must ensure
that pedestrian connections are located at least 200 feet apart. The Bureau of
Transportation must also approve the width of, and configuration of elements within, the
pedestrian connections.
B. Additional requirements for street and pedestrian/bicycle connections are regulated by the
Bureau of Transportation. See Section 17.88.040, Through Streets, of the Portland City Code.

Commentary

Page 192 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
Civic and Neighborhood Corridors
Map 120-1

This new map shows where limited use allowances for Retail Sales and Service and Office uses apply
for sites abutting a Civic or Neighborhood corridor (see 33.120.100.B).  This map also shows where
the 70 percent maximum building coverage allowance in the RM2 zone, indicated in Table 120-3,
applies for sites that abut these types of corridors, as well as where allowances for no setbacks
between properties along this corridors apply in the Inner Pattern Area (see pages 89-91).
These Civic Corridors and Neighborhood corridors are streets classified on the Street Design
Classification maps of the Transportation System Plan (TSP) as Civic or Neighborhood main streets
and Civic or Neighborhood corridors.

Civic and Neighborhood corridors are indicated in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan as places intended
to be locations for commercial activity and residential living, with transit-supportive densities of
housing and employment.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 193
 Zoning Code Amendments

Commentary

Page 194 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
Minimum Required Site Frontage Areas
Map 120-2

This new map shows where the Minimum Required Site Frontage for New Development requirements
will apply to properties with multi-dwelling zoning (see 33.120.206, pages 52 to 53).  The mapped
areas correspond to the adopted center boundaries for the Jade District, 122nd/Hazelwood, and
Rosewood/Glenfair centers.  The Midway boundaries include areas within this center’s adopted
boundaries, plus a broader area with multi-dwelling zoning that was within the Division-Midway
Neighborhood Street Plan area (this plan was a joint project undertaken in 2013-2014 by PBOT,
ODOT, and BPS to improve street connectivity in the area).

The requirements of section 33.120.206 will apply only to properties with multi-dwelling zoning
within the mapped areas and will not apply to properties within the single-dwelling or
commercial/mixed uses zones.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 195
 Zoning Code Amendments

Commentary

Page 196 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
Pattern Areas
Map 120-3

This new map shows where the Eastern Pattern Area special rear setback applies.  It also shows the
Inner Pattern Area, where allowances for reduced side/rear setbacks apply along Civic and
Neighborhood corridors. See 33.120.220 (Setbacks), pages 89 to 91.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 197
 Zoning Code Amendments

Commentary

Page 198 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
Maps of RH Areas with Maximum FAR of 4:1 (Maps 120-1 through Map 120-18)

Existing Maps 120-1 through Map 120-18 are being deleted because they will no longer be
necessary due to the proposed new zoning framework.  The RH areas with an FAR of 4 to 1
shown on these maps will now be assigned a separate Zoning Map designation, RM4,
differentiating them on the Zoning Map from areas with RH zoning that have an FAR of 2
to 1 (which will be zoned RM3).

The existing Index Map (below) indicates the locations of the RH zoning shown on deleted
Maps 120-2 through 120-19.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 199
 Zoning Code Amendments

Delete Maps 120-1 through 120-19

Commentary

Page 200 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 201
 Zoning Code Amendments
Proposed Zoning Code Amendments to
Chapters 258, 266, 405, 612, 910, and 930

This section presents proposed zoning code amendments to other Zoning Code chapters that
regulate development in the multi-dwelling zones. The section is formatted to facilitate
readability by showing draft code amendments on the right-hand pages and related
commentary on the facing left-hand pages.

Commentary

Page 202 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
Chapter33.258 Nonconforming Situations
Only those chapter sections that are proposed for amendments are included here.

33.258.060 Nonconforming Residential Densities
This section is being amended to provide a limited number of ways for new units to be added to
sites with existing development without coming all the way into conformance with minimum density
standards.  Currently, regulations allow any number of units to be added to existing development
without having to meet the minimum density requirements.  This has resulted in situations in which
the majority of a site is redeveloped with new construction, but substantially underbuilds the
intended density of the site’s multi-dwelling zoning (see page 70).  The amendments in this chapter
provide a more targeted set of exceptions, so that most substantial development projects meet the
intended densities of multi-dwelling zones, while providing some flexibility for the addition of units
to existing buildings and manufactured home parks.  These exceptions to requirements to come into
conformance with minimum density standards include:
 Allowing accessory dwelling units (ADUs) to be added, to accommodate the fact that single-
family houses are still the predominant housing in most multi-dwelling zones – this would retain
the ability of homeowners to build ADUs.
 Allowing flexibility to add units within an existing building, as an alternative to demolition and
new construction (this would allow, for instance, a house in a higher-density multi-dwelling zone
to be converted into a duplex, when minimum density standards would otherwise require several
additional units, which can be problematic to achieve in an existing house when commercial code
requirements are triggered).
 Allowing for units to be added to sites in the RMP zone without coming into full conformance
with minimum density standards to accommodate unique aspects of manufactured home parks,
where units are often added incrementally to available spaces.
 Exemptions for sites in flood or landslide hazard areas.
The amendments would leave unchanged an existing provision that exempts properties with historic
resources (individual landmarks and contributing structures in Historic or Conservation districts)
from minimum density requirements (see 33.445.610.C.6).  This is intended to help accommodate
the preservation of historic resources.
Subparagraph A.2 is being deleted because it concerns maximum density regulations that are being
deleted as part of the shift to regulating development intensity in the multi-dwelling zones by
building scale/FAR.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 203
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.258 Nonconforming Situations
258
33.258.060 Nonconforming Residential Densities
A. Changes to dwellings.
1. Generally. Existing dwelling units may continue, may be removed or enlarged, and
amenities may be added to the site.
a. Sites that exceed maximum residential density standard. On sites that exceed the
maximum residential density standards, there may not be a net increase in the
number of dwelling units and the building may not move further out of compliance
with the base zone development standards, except as allowed in Paragraph A.2,
below.
b. Sites where the minimum residential density standard is not met. The following apply
to sites where the minimum residential density standard is not met:
(1) In multi-dwelling zones, there may not be a net decrease in the number of
dwelling units, and the site may not move further out of compliance with base
zone development standards. Generally, when dwelling units are being added to
a site that is nonconforming in minimum density, the site must be brought into
conformance with the minimum density requirement. However, units may be
added to the site without coming all the way into conformance with the
minimum residential density standard in the following situations:
 An accessory dwelling unit is being added to an existing house, attached
house, duplex, or manufactured home;
 Dwelling units are being added within an existing structure and the footprint
of the existing structure is not being enlarged;
 Dwelling units are being added to a site in the RMP zone;
 The site is within a flood hazard area or potential landslide hazard area.
(2) In all other zones,On sites where the minimum residential density standard is
not met, changes may be made that bring the site closer into conformance with
the minimum residential density standard. There may not be a net decrease in
the number of dwelling units, and the building may not move further out of
compliance with the base zone development standards.
2. In multi-dwelling zones. In multi-dwelling zones, sites with residential structures may
move out of compliance or further out of compliance with the maximum density
standards of Table 120-3 if all of the following are met:
a. The residential structure was constructed before December 31, 1980; and
b. The site is moving out of compliance or further out of compliance with the maximum
density standards due to a separation of ownership as allowed by Subsection
33.120.205.C 33.120.210.C.

Commentary

Page 204 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.258.060 Nonconforming Residential Densities (continued)
The only amendment on this page is an update to a multi-dwelling zone name (new RM1 replaces R2).

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 205
 Zoning Code Amendments
B. Discontinuance and damage.
1. [No change]
2. Accidental damage or destruction.
a. More than one dwelling unit. When there is more than one dwelling unit on a site,
and when the site is nonconforming for residential density, the following applies if a
structure containing dwelling units is damaged or destroyed by fire or other causes
beyond the control of the owner:
(1) [No change]
(2) [No change]
(3) If the repair cost is more than 75 percent of the assessed value of the structure,
the new structure must comply with one of the following, whichever is less
restrictive:
 The development standards (except for density) that would apply to new
development on the site; or
 The development standards (except for density) that would apply to new
development in the RM1R2 zone.
b. [No change]
3. [No change]

Commentary

Page 206 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
Chapter 33.266
Only those chapter sections that are proposed for amendments are included here.

33.266.110.D Exceptions to the minimum number of parking spaces.
These amendments change the affordable housing parking exception so that the exemption from
minimum parking requirements for projects providing inclusionary housing units applies regardless
of location, instead of limiting this exemption to locations within 500 feet of frequent-service
transit lines or within 1,500 feet of transit stations.  The amendment also adds the Deeper Housing
Affordability Bonus to the types of affordable housing that can use this exemption.  The intent of
this amendment is to reduce costs and support the economic feasibility of projects that provide
affordable housing units by making parking optional, instead of required.
95 percent of multi-dwelling and mixed use zone properties are located within 1,500 feet (just over
a quarter mile) of frequent-service transit, meaning that most development in these zones is within
walking distance of frequent transit.  A feasibility analysis (see Appendix C – Part 2) indicated that
parking requirements impact the economic feasibility of projects with inclusionary housing units
(structured parking typically costs around $40,000 per parking space and takes up building area
that could be used for housing units).

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 207
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.266 Parking, Loading, And Transportation And
Parking Demand Management
266

33.266.110 Minimum Required Parking Spaces
A.-C [No change]
D. Exceptions to the minimum number of parking spaces. The minimum number of required
parking spaces may be reduced as follows:
1. Affordable housing exceptions:. The minimum number of required parking spaces may be
reduced to zero when the applicant demonstrates compliance with the on-site or off-site
affordable dwelling unit requirements of Chapter 33.245, Inclusionary Housing, the on-site
or off-site affordable dwelling unit requirements of an applicable voluntary inclusionary
housing bonus, or the requirements of the deeper housing affordability bonus of Section
33.120.211. This exception does not apply if the applicant pays a fee-in-lieu of complying
with the requirements of Chapter 33.245, Inclusionary Housing, or makes a payment into
the Affordable Housing Fund in exchange for bonus density or FAR.
a. Exception for sites close to transit. The minimum number of required parking may be
reduced to zero when the following are met:
(1) The site is located 1500 feet or less from a transit station, or 500 feet or less
from a transit street with 20-minute peak hour service; and
(2) The applicant demonstrates compliance with the on-site or off-site affordable
dwelling unit requirements of Chapter 33.245, Inclusionary Housing, or the on-
site or off-site affordable dwelling unit requirements of an applicable voluntary
inclusionary housing bonus. This exception does not apply if the applicant pays a
fee-in-lieu of complying with the requirements of Chapter 33.245, Inclusionary
Housing, or makes a payment into the Affordable Housing Fund in exchange for
bonus density or FAR.
b. Exception for sites far from transit. Affordable dwelling units are not counted toward
the total number of dwelling units when calculating the number of required parking
spaces when the following are met:
(1) The site is located more than 1500 feet from a transit station, or more than 500
feet from a transit street with 20-minute peak hour service; and
(2) The applicant demonstrates compliance with the on-site or off-site affordable
dwelling unit requirements of Chapter 33.245, Inclusionary Housing, or the on-
site or off-site affordable dwelling unit requirements of an applicable voluntary
inclusionary housing bonus. This exception does not apply if the applicant pays a
fee-in-lieu of complying with the requirements of Chapter 33.245, Inclusionary
Housing, or makes a payment into the Affordable Housing Fund in exchange for
bonus density or FAR.
2. Other exceptions. [No change]

Commentary

Page 208 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
Table 266-1
This table is being revised to provide small sites in multi-dwelling zones the same allowance for no
or low amounts of parking that applies in the commercial/mixed-use zones.  For both types of zones,
the small site threshold is being amended to include sites up to 10,000 square feet in size, instead
of 7,500 square feet.  This approach acknowledges the difficulty of including parking on small sites,
and provides opportunities for small multi-dwelling structures, such as triplexes and fourplexes,
that can more readily be integrated into neighborhood patterns when no off-street parking is
required (including parking with multi-dwelling structures on small sites often results in structured
parking occupying much of the ground level, with living spaces up above, requiring taller buildings).
The parking requirements for small sites are similar to the parking ratios that apply in areas close
to frequent transit, exempting small projects of less than 31 units from providing off-street
parking.

This small-site exemption will also apply to small lots created through land divisions, such as
attached houses, which will facilitate pedestrian-oriented building design that is not dominated by
parking.  This will provide an exemption similar to parking exemptions proposed by the Residential
Infill Project, providing options for small-lot development that is not dominated by parking.

Recent five-plex project with no off-street parking,
allowing it to fit into neighborhood context.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 209
 Zoning Code Amendments

Table 266-1
Minimum Required and Maximum Allowed Parking Spaces By Zone [1], [2]
Zone Requirement
OS, RF – R2.5RH, RMP, EG, I, IR Minimum is Standard A in Table 266-2.

Maximum is Standard B in Table 266-2.
RM1 - RM4, CR, CM1, CM2,
CM3, CE, CI
Minimum for sites that are 10,0007,500 square feet or less in size: No
minimum except for Household Living, which has the following minimums:
0 for 1 to 30 units;
0.20 per unit for 31-40 units;
0.25 per unit for 41-50 units; and
0.33 per unit for 51+ units.
Minimum for all other sites is Standard A in Table 266-2

Maximum is Standard B in Table 266-2.
EX No minimum except for Household Living, which has the following minimums:
0 for 1 to 3 units;
1 per 2 units for four+ units; and
SROs are exempt.

Maximum is Standard A in Table 266-2, except:
1) Retail, personal service, repair-oriented - Maximum is 1 per 200 sq. ft. of
net building area.
2) Restaurants and bars - Maximum is 1 per 75 sq. ft. of net building area.
3) General office – Maximum is 1 per 400 sq. ft. of net building area.
4) Medical/Dental office – Maximum is 1 per 330 sq. ft. of net building area.
RX, CX No minimum except for Household Living, which has the following minimums:
0 for 1 to 30 units;
0.2 per unit for 31-40 units;
0.25 per unit for 41-50 units; and
0.33 per unit for 51+ units.

Maximum is Standard B in Table 266-2.
[1] Regulations in a plan district or overlay zone may supersede the standards of this table.
[2] Uses subject to a Conditional Use, Impact Mitigation Plan, or Transportation Impat review may establish
different parking minimum and maximum requirements through the review.

Commentary

Page 210 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
Table 266-2
Parking Spaces by Use

Standard A
This table is being amended to assign to all multi-dwelling zones the minimum parking requirements
that currently apply in the RH zone (Standard A).  This standard is only applicable when off-street
parking is required, such as for sites more than 10,000 square feet in size that are further than
500 feet from a frequent-service transit street (or more than 1,500 feet of a transit station).  The
amended standard will require 1 parking space for every 2 units, instead of the current standard of
1 parking space per each unit that had applied for residential development in other zones when not
close to frequent transit.  The allowance for projects with up to three units to include no parking is
being deleted, as it is now redundant with parking regulations that will apply to small sites (see
previous pages).  For consistency, this parking ratio of 1 space per 2 units will apply to all household
living uses in most zones, including within the mixed use zones (the RIP project proposes to require
no off-street parking in the single-dwelling zones).  No changes are proposed to existing allowances
for no or low parking for sites close to frequent transit service.

Parking, especially when included along with the housing densities intended in the multi-dwelling
zones, competes with other elements, such as outdoor spaces, for site area, and can add
substantially to project costs.  This change reduces the need to include as much parking on sites in
the multi-dwelling zones, which is an especially challenging issue in these zones, which extend
further from transit lines compared to the commercial/mixed use zones (as is the case with the
multi-dwelling zones in the Jade District neighborhood center, which extend from SE Division south
to SE Powell).  40 percent of land in the multi-dwelling zones is outside the distances that currently
qualify for lower parking requirements, and generally have parking required at a 1 to 1 ratio of
spaces to units.

Standard B
Another amendment to this table is the application of a
maximum parking ratio for development in the multi-dwelling
zones in locations close to transit.  This is indicated by the
inclusion of the multi-dwelling zones in the Standard B
column for Household Living.  In areas close to transit, a
maximum parking ratio of 1.35 parking spaces per unit will
apply (this limit applies primarily to surface parking lots, not
to structured parking or to houses, attached houses, or
duplexes).

Apartment development in East Portland
providing parking at the current required ratio
of one space for each unit, leaving little room
for outdoor areas and trees.
 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 211
 Zoning Code Amendments
Table 266-2
Parking Spaces by Use [2]
(Refer to Table 266-1 to determine which standard applies.)

Use Categories

Specific Uses

Standard A

Standard B
Residential Categories
Household Living  1 per 2 units, except SROs
exempt. and in RH, where
it is 0 for 1 to 3 units and
1 per 2 units for four +
units
None, except 1.35 per unit
on sites that are both in a
commercial/mixed use or
multi-dwelling zone and
close to transit (close to
transit is described in
33.266.110.B.1.)
Houses, attached houses
and duplexes are exempt.
Group Living  1 per 4 residents None
Commercial Categories
Retail Sales And Service  Retail, personal service,
repair oriented
1 per 500 sq. ft. of net
building area
1 per 196 sq. ft. of net
building area
 Restaurants and bars 1 per 250 sq. ft. of net
building area
1 per 63 sq. ft. of net
building area
 Health clubs, gyms,
lodges, meeting rooms,
and similar. Continuous
entertainment such as
arcades and bowling
alleys
1 per 330 sq. ft. of net
building area
1 per 185 sq. ft. of net
building area
 Temporary lodging 1 per rentable room; for
associated uses such as
restaurants, see above
1.5 per rentable room; for
associated uses such as
restaurants, see above
 Theaters 1 per 4 seats or 1 per 6
feet of bench area
1 per 2.7 seats or 1 per 4
feet of bench area
Office General office 1 per 500 sq. ft. of net
building area
1 per 294 sq. ft. of net
building area
Medical/Dental office 1 per 500 sq. ft. of net
building area
1 per 204 sq. ft. of net
building area
Quick Vehicle Servicing   1 per 500 sq. ft. of net
building area
1 per 196 sq. ft. of net
building area
Vehicle Repair  1 per 750 sq. ft. of net
building area [1]
1 per 500 sq. ft. of net
building area
Commercial Parking   None None
Self-Service Storage  1 per resident manager’s
facility, plus 3 per leasing
office, plus 1 per 100
leasable storage spaces in
multi-story buildings.
2 per resident manager’s
facility, plus 5 per leasing
office, plus 1 per 67
leasable storage spaces in
multi-story buildings.
Commercial Outdoor
Recreation
 20 per acre of site 30 per acre of site
Major Event
Entertainment
 1 per 8 seats  1 per 5 seats

Commentary

Page 212 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
28’ 36’
33.266.120 Development Standards for Houses, Duplexes, Triplexes and Fourplexes.
The existing parking standards are broken into two groups: standards for houses and duplexes and
standards for all other development. These amendments group triplexes and fourplexes with houses
and duplexes. These types of residential structures have relatively small numbers of units and
parking spaces, compared to other types of development, such as large multi-dwelling buildings,
retail, or office development. The regulations of this section apply to these types of small
residential structures regardless of zone, including in the multi-dwelling and single-dwelling zones.
The amendments to these parking regulations are intended to improve the pedestrian experience
along streets. These amendments were originally included as part of the Residential Infill Project
proposals, but are now being included as part of the Better Housing by Design (BHD) amendments
because the latter is moving forward to City Council consideration first.  This will allow the
amendments in this section to apply in conjunction with the other BHD parking- and garage-related
amendments, as was originally intended.

33.266.120.C. Parking area locations
To reduce the prominence of vehicles in the front of residences, parking will be
prohibited between the building and the street. Parking spaces will
be allowed when they are either entirely behind the front building
line (either in a garage or on a parking pad), or when they are
located to the side of the building (i.e. not in the area between the
building and the street). Driveways will only be allowed between an
allowed parking space and the street.

Where the parking is proposed on the site to the side of a
building the parking space must be outside the first 10 feet
or street side setback. Parking in the first 10 feet is only
allowed when it is directly behind another space that is
located entirely outside the 10-foot area.

Paving in the front yard is limited to 40% (20% on a street side yard), except for flag lots which
can have a 12-foot-wide driveway (otherwise the 40% limit would mean a maximum 4.8 foot wide
driveway on a 12 foot wide pole).

9’  x 18’
Minimum driveway for one 9x18’ space outside first 10 feet
9’  x 18’
Driveway for two spaces (2nd space located behind 1st)
10 feet from
front lot line
Park
Park
Park
Park
Park
Alley
 Park
Park
Park
Park
Park
Park
Park
Park
Park
Park
Park
Park
Park
Park
Park
Park
Park
Park
Attached houses, duplexes, triplexes, etc. – when provided, parking is prohibited between the building and the street (parking proposed to be optional in the BHD and RIP projects).
Area where parking is prohibited
Park
 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 213
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.266.120 Development Standards for Houses, and Duplexes, Triplexes and Fourplexes
A. Purpose. The size and placement of vehicle parking areas are regulated in order to enhance the
appearance and pedestrian experience of neighborhoods.
B. Structures these regulations apply to. The regulations of this section apply to houses, attached
houses, duplexes, attached duplexes, triplexes, fourplexes, manufactured homes, and
houseboats. The regulations apply to allrequired and excess parking areas. The following are
exceptions to this requirement:
1. Parking that is in a parking tract is subject to the standards of Section 33.266.130 instead
of the standards of this section. However, perimeter landscaping is not required where
the parking tract abuts a lot line internal to the site served by the tract.
2. Parking for manufactured dwelling parks is regulated in Chapter 33.251.
C. Parking area locations.
1. Vehicle area. The following standards apply to the location of vehicle area:
a. Vehicle area is prohibited between the primary structure and the street except as
follows. This standard does not apply to houses on lots that are at least 32 feet wide:
(1) Parking spaces located entirely behind the front and side street building lines of
a primary structure are allowed; and
(2) Driveways to parking spaces located entirely behind the front and side street
building lines of a primary structure are allowed.
b. No more than 40 percent of the land area between the front lot line and the front
building line may be paved or used for vehicle areas. See Figure 266-2. On corner
lots, no more than 20 percent of the land area between the side street lot line and
the side street building line may be paved or used for vehicle areas. For attached
houses, this standard applies to the combined lot lines of attached house lots. As an
exception to the area limitations in this subparagraph, a flag lot with a pole that
allows vehicle access is allowed at least a 12-foot wide vehicle area.
2. Parking spaces. The following standards apply to the location of parking spaces:
a. Generally, parking spaces are not allowed within the first 10 feet from a front lot, and
on corner lots, parking spaces are not allowed within the side street setback.
b. Exceptions.
(1) A parking space is allowed within the first 10 feet from a front lot line or within
a side street setback when the parking space is in a driveway behind a parking
space that is located outside of the first 10 feet from a front lot line or outside
of the side street setback. See Figure 266-1.
(2) On lots where the front lot line abuts a common green or shared court, parking
spaces are allowed within 10 feet of the front lot line.

Commentary

Page 214 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.266.120 Development Standards for Houses, Duplexes, Triplexes and Fourplexes.

See previous commentary.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 215
 Zoning Code Amendments
1. Required parking
a. Generally,. Required parking spaces are not allowed within the first 10 feet from a
front lot line or in a required front setback, whichever is greater. In addition, on
corner lots, required parking spaces are not allowed within the side street setback.
b. Exception for common greens and shared courts. On lots where the front lot line
abuts a common green or shared court, parking spaces are allowed within 10 feet of
the front lot line.
2. Non-required parking. Where non-required parking is provided on a site, at least one
parking space (required or not required) must meet the standards for required parking
stated in Paragraph C.1 above. A non-required parking space is allowed within the first 10
feet from a front lot line or in a required front setback if it is in a driveway immediately
behind a required parking space (See Figure 266-1, Non-Required Parking). On a corner
lot, where the driveway is in the required side setback, a non-required space is allowed
within the first 10 feet from the side street lot line or in the required side setback if it is in
a driveway immediately behind a required parking space.
3. Front yard restrictions.
a. No more than 40 percent of the land area between the front lot line and the front
building line may be paved or used for vehicle areas. In addition, on corner lots, no
more than 20 percent of the land area between the side street lot line and the side
street building line may be paved or used for vehicle areas. See Figure 266-2. As an
exception to the area limitations in this subparagraph the following is allowed:
(1) A lot is allowed at least a 9-foot wide vehicle area.
(2) In the multi-dwelling, C, E, I, CI, and IR zones, on sites where the front lot line
abuts a shared court, paving blocks or bricks may be used to surface the entire
area between the front lot line and the front building line.
b. For flag lots, where the width of the pole is greater than 30 feet, no more than 40
percent of the land area between the front lot line and the front building line may be
paved or used for vehicle areas.
 See Figure 266-2. As an exception to the area limitation of this subparagraph, a flag
lot is allowed at least a 12-foot wide vehicle area.
34. Parking in garages. Parking in garages is subject to the garage setback standards of the
base zone, overlay zone or plan district.
D.-E.    [No change]

Commentary

Page 216 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
Not Permitted
Parking entirely in front of building.
Permitted
Parking to side of front of building (center) and also rear- and no-parking
arrangements (right).
Figure 266-1
With the changes to eliminate minimum required parking for small sites in the multi-dwelling zones,
the figure delineating the distinction between “required” and “non-required” parking is being
replaced to instead illustrate where parking spaces are/are not allowed. The amended graphic also
includes hatching showing that parking is not permitted between the front building line and the
street (a driveway and additional parking space are allowed between the street and a garage or
parking space that is set behind the front building line).

For small housing types such as houses, duplexes, and
attached houses, the amendments to this section will allow
parking to the side of the fronts of buildings (right), but will
disallow parking spaces from being located entirely in front of
buildings (above).

Duplex/Attached House Examples
Triplex/Fourplex Examples
 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 217
 Zoning Code Amendments

Figure 266-1
Non-Required Parking

Figure 266-1
Parking Space Locations

Commentary

Page 218 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments

33.266.130 Development Standards for All Other Development
Changes to the purpose statement provide greater clarity regarding the intent of the regulations in
this section, including amendments that limit large surface parking lots and asphalt paving.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 219
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.266.130 Development Standards for All Other Development
A. Purpose. The development standards promote vehicle areas that are safe and attractive for
motorists and pedestrians. Vehicle area locations are restricted in some zones to promote the
desired character of those zones.
 Together with the transit street building setback standards in the base zone chapters, the
vehicle area location regulations for sites on transit streets and in Pedestrian Districts:
 Provide a pedestrian access that is protected from auto traffic;
 Create an environment that is inviting to pedestrians and transit users, especially on transit
streets and in Pedestrian Districts;
 Limit the prominence of vehicle areas along street frontages and Ccreate a strong
relationship between buildings and the sidewalk; and
 Create a sense of enclosure on transit and pedestrian street frontages; and
 Limit the size of paved parking area and the type of paving material allowed in order to
limit increases in temperature associated with asphalt and reduce impacts from urban heat
islands.
 The parking area layout standards are intended to promote safe circulation within the parking
area, provide for the effective management of stormwater runoff from vehicle areas, and
provide for convenient entry and exit of vehicles. The setback and landscaping standards:
 Improve and soften the appearance of parking areas;
 Reduce the visual impact of parking areas from sidewalks, streets, and especially from
adjacent residential zones;
 Provide flexibility to reduce the visual impacts of small residential parking lots;
 Direct traffic in parking areas;
 Shade and cool parking areas;
 Reduce the amount and rate of stormwater runoff from vehicle areas;
 Reduce pollution and temperature of stormwater runoff from vehicle areas; and
 Decrease airborne and waterborne pollution.
B. Where these standards apply. The standards of this section apply to all vehicle areas whether
required or excess parking, except for residential parkingvehicle areas subject to the standards
of 33.266.120.

Commentary

Page 220 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.266.130.C On-site locations and size of vehicle areas.
Amendments to Subparagraph 1. When small sites (up to 10,000 square feet) in multi-dwelling
zones abut an alley, this amendment will require any parking provided to be accessed from the alley
(the Residential Infill Project proposes a similar requirement for houses, attached houses and
duplexes). In cases where an existing alley may not be accessible to vehicles, other amendments
provide the option for small sites to not include off-street parking (see Table 266-1).
Amendments to Subparagraph 3 limit vehicle areas in the RM1-RM4 zones from occupying more
than 40 percent of street frontages (a reduction from the current 50 percent allowance). The new
limit is consistent with the front vehicle area limitation that applies to
houses, attached houses, and duplexes.
New Subparagraph 4.  This new regulation is intended to reduce the
proportion of site area that can be devoted to surface parking lots, with
additional limits on asphalt paving.  This helps implement Comprehensive
Plan polices that call for reducing urban heat island effects and paved
areas, and fosters design that is more pedestrian oriented.
Modeling of urban heat islands indicates that development with large
amounts of asphalt paving can be over five degrees (oF) hotter than
typical existing neighborhood conditions (see Better Housing by Design
Concept Report, Appendix C).  This modeling shows that similar amounts
of other paved surfaces with higher levels of reflectivity, such as
concrete, also increase temperatures, but to a lesser amount (concrete
results in an increase of approximately three degrees). While existing
multi-dwelling zone regulations limit the amount of building coverage,
there is not a similar limit on the amount of surface parking area.  Multi-
dwelling development with large amounts of surface parking are a common
development type in East Portland.
These regulations limit surface parking and driveway areas to 30
percent of a site.  Because of the greater heat impacts of asphalt, this
regulation limits asphalt paving to 15 percent of total site area.
For a project seeking to maximize the amount of surface vehicle
areas and fully utilize the 30 percent coverage, this would mean
that up to half of this area could be paved with asphalt and the
rest could be paved with concrete, paving blocks, or other
materials.
Apartment development in East
Portland with almost 40 percent of
the site paved for vehicle areas.
Right: Apartment development with
approximately 30 percent of site
used for surface vehicle areas. The
hatched area shows the maximum
15 percent of site area that could be
paved with asphalt.

Left: parking lot with a mix of
asphalt and permeable pavers that
help manage stormwater.
 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 221
 Zoning Code Amendments
C. On-site locations and size of vehicle areas.
1. Location of vehicle areas. The allowed on-site location of all vehicle areas is stated in Table
266-3. Additionally, on sites in multi-dwelling zones that abut an alley and are 10,000
square feet or less in total site area, vehicle area may only be accessed from the alley.
2. Building setbacks for structures that contain vehicle areas.
a. Structures that contain vehicle areas are subject to the building setbacks of the base
zone, where exiting in a forward motion is provided.
b. Structured parking that does not allow exiting in a forward motion in R Zones is
subject to the garage entrance setback standard of the base zone.
c. Structured parking that does not allow exiting in a forward motion in C, E, I. CI or IR
zones must be set back 18 feet from the street lot line.
3. Frontage limitation.
a. The standard of this sSubparagraph applies outside the Central City plan district in
the R3, R2, R1RM1, RM2, RM3, RM4 and RMP zones. No more than 540 percent of
the frontage on a street may be used for vehicle areas. On sites with more than one
street frontage, this standard applies to the street with the highest transit
designation. If two streets have the same highest transit classification, the applicant
may choose on which street to meet the standard. Sites where there is less than 100
square feet of net building area are exempt from this standard.
b. The standard of this pParagraph applies outside the Central City plan district in the
RH, RX, CR, CM1, CM2, CM3, CE, CX, EG1, EX, CI, and IR zones. Where vehicle areas
are adjacent to a transit street or a street in a Pedestrian District, no more than 50
percent of the frontage on the transit street or street in a Pedestrian District may be
used for vehicle areas. Sites where there is less than 100 square feet of net building
area are exempt from this standard.
4. Surface parking and driveway paving limitations. In the RM1 through RM4 zones, the
following parking area and driveway size and paving material limitations apply:
a. No more than 30 percent of total site area may be paved or used for surface parking
and driveways; and
b. Asphalt paving for surface parking and driveways may not cover more than 15
percent of total site area.
D.-E. [No change]

Commentary

Page 222 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.266.130.C On-site locations and size of vehicle areas (continued)

Table 266-3
Location of Vehicle Areas
Amendment to this table shift small sites (up to 10,000 square feet) in the multi-dwelling zones into
the same category as other urban zones (such as the Commercial/Mixed Use zones), in terms of
how the location of vehicle areas are regulated.  This change will prevent parking from being located
in front of multi-dwelling buildings in these zones.  Off-street surface parking will need to be
located to the rear or to the side of buildings in most situations.  This will help implement policies
that call for development to contribute to pedestrian oriented streets, where buildings are not
separated from sidewalks by vehicle areas.

Larger sites in the RM1-RM3 zones, which sometimes have buildings far from public streets
(especially on large sites in Eastern and Western Portland) are provided more flexibility to allow
some vehicle areas in front of buildings, as long as vehicle areas are not located in areas subject to
maximum street setbacks along transit streets and in pedestrian districts.  All multi-dwelling
development will also need to meet standards that prevent vehicles areas from occupying more than
40% of the street frontage (see previous page).

Table 266-3 applies to multi-dwelling development and structures, but does not apply to houses,
attached houses, and duplexes.  Parking location for these housing types are regulated by a
different set of standards in 33.266.120, which also limit front parking (see pages 212-217).

A note is being added to clarify that the vehicle area limitations do not apply to parking that is
located behind a building, but in front of other buildings further to the rear of a site.

The proposed limitations on front parking in the multi-dwelling zones will help
implement policies that call for street frontages that enhance neighborhood
context and contribute to pedestrian-friendly street frontages.
 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 223
 Zoning Code Amendments

Table 266-3
Location of Vehicle Areas [1], [2]
Zone General Standard Exception for Through
Lots and Sites with Three
Frontages

Exception for Full-Block
Sites
OS, RF-R5, R2.5,R10, EG2, I  No restrictions.

R3, R2, R1, RH, RMP, IR, CE,
EG1, CI;, sites in RM1, RM2,
and RM3 that are more
than 10,000 square feet in
total area; sites in CM1,
CM2, and CM3 that are
more than 2 acres in total
area
Vehicle areas not
allowed between the
portion of the building
that complies with the
maximum street setback
and the transit street or
streets in a Pedestrian
District.
May have vehicle areas
between the portion of
the building that complies
with the maximum street
setback and one Local
Service Transit Street.
May have vehicle areas
between the portion of
the building that complies
with the maximum street
setback and two Local
Service Transit Streets.
RM4, RX, CX, CR, EX;, sites
in RM1, RM2, and RM3
that are 10,000 square feet
or less in total area; sites in
CM1, CM2, and CM3 that
are 2 acres or less in total
area
Not allowed between a
building and any street.

May have vehicle areas
between the building and
one Local Service Transit
Street.
May have vehicle areas
between the building and
two Local Service Transit
Streets.
Notes:
[1] Driveways that provide a straight-line connection between the street and a parking area inside a building are
not subject to these regulations.
[2] Vehicle areas that are separated from a street by a building are not subject to these regulations.

Commentary

Page 224 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
Chapter 33.266.130.C On-site locations and size of vehicle areas (continued)

33.266.130.F  Parking area layouts.  The only change to this paragraph is an amendment to
subparagraph 1.b.(2).  This change provides more flexibility to allow parking spaces accessed from
alleys to be designed so that vehicles can back out into an alley.  Currently, regulations allow parking
areas with up to four spaces to have vehicles back out into alleys, which accommodates parking for
single-family housing types and small multi-dwelling projects, but does not accommodate alley-
accessed parking for mid-sized or larger multi-dwelling projects.  The amendment removes the
four-space limit in order to facilitate alley-accessed parking for more types of development, and
works in conjunction with Chapter 33.120 and Chapter 33.266 amendments that place greater limits
on front garages and front parking (including an amendment that requires parking access for small
sites to be from an alley, where alleys exists – see pages 220-221).

This amendment will allow parking to be
designed so that vehicles can back out into
alleys, as is currently allowed for driveways.
This will facilitate rear parking arrangements
for more types of development when
adjacent to existing or new rear alleys.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 225
 Zoning Code Amendments
F. Parking area layouts.
1. Access to parking spaces.
a. All parking areas, except stacked parking areas, must be designed so that a vehicle
may enter or exit without having to move another vehicle.
b. All parking areas must be designed to allow vehicles to enter and exit the roadway in a
forward motion, except:
(1) Parking areas with one or two spaces whose only access is on a local
service street;
(2) Parking areas with up to four spaces may be designed so that vehicles back out
into an alley. However, there must be a maneuvering area of at least 20 feet
between the end of each parking space and the opposite side of the alley. If the
alley is less than 20 feet wide, some of this maneuvering area will be on-site.
2.-5. [No change]
G. [No change]

Commentary

Page 226 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.266.410 Transportation and Parking Demand Management (TDM)
These amendments add Transportation and Parking Demand Management (TDM) requirements to
most of the multi-dwelling zones.  TDM strategies are intended to help reduce drive-alone trips and
to limit transportation impacts of new development, while providing people with incentives to ride
transit, walk, bike, and carpool.
TDM requirements were previously adopted for the commercial/mixed use zones, and will now also
apply to the new multi-dwelling zones (RM1, RM2, RM3, and RM4), which allow a similar scale of
residential development. TDM requirements only apply to sites that are close to frequent transit
service (e.g., within 500 feet from frequent bus lines), in recognition of the more limited
transportation options outside of these areas.
Where the requirement applies, a TDM plan will be required of new development that includes a
building with more than 10 units or that adds more than 10 units to an existing building. This
threshold is a change from the current regulation, which had a threshold of 10 units with no
reference to building size.  This change is intended to accommodate the fact that some TDM
approaches are not suited to small-scale housing types, such as houses and townhouses, that
typically do not have building managers. The amended language ensures that the TDM requirements
only apply to larger buildings.
The TDM requirements allow an applicant/building manager to adopt a pre-approved “off the shelf”
TDM plan.  As an alternative, an applicant may choose to develop a custom TDM plan through a
Transportation Impact Review.
Pre-approved TDM plans will consist of the following components:
 Multimodal financial incentives: One-time multimodal financial incentives, equivalent in value
to an annual TriMet pass (currently $1,100), will be required for each residential unit
(affordable units will be exempt through June of 2020, and then would have reduced fees).
Options will be provided for the use of these funds to be applied toward TriMet passes for
residents, bike share memberships, or car share programs.
 Education and Information: Print materials about walking, bicycling, transit, and other
transportation options will be made available to building tenants and displayed in building
common areas.
 Surveys:  Building operators will be required to participate in an annual transportation
options survey.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 227
 Zoning Code Amendments
Transportation and Parking Demand Management
33.266.410 Transportation and Parking Demand Management
A. Purpose. Transportation and parking demand management (TDM) encompasses a variety of
strategies to encourage more efficient use of the existing transportation system, and reduce
reliance on the personal automobile. This is achieved by encouraging people through
education, outreach, financial incentives, and pricing to choose other modes, share rides, travel
outside peak times, and telecommute, among other methods. Effective TDM also incorporates
management of parking demand. Transportation and parking demand management strategies
help reduce traffic congestion, reduce the amount of money that must be spent to expand
transportation system capacity, improve air quality, and ensure road capacity is available for
those who need it most.
B. Transportation and parking demand management in the commercial/mixed use and multi-
dwelling zones. In the commercial/mixed use and multi-dwelling zones, a TDM plan is required
when new development includes a building with more than 10 dwelling units, or an alteration
to existing development includes the addition of more than 10 dwelling units within a building.
Sites in the Central City plan district, and sites that are located far from transit, as described in
Paragraph 33.266.110.B.2, are exempt from this requirement. To meet the TDM standard, the
applicant must choose one of the following:
1. Go through the Transportation Impact review process set out in chapter 33.852; or
2. Meet the objective standards of Title 17.107 as verified by the Portland Bureau of
Transportation.

Commentary

Page 228 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
Chapter 33.405 Alternative Design Density Overlay Overlay Zone
Chapter 33.405 (the “a-overlay”) is proposed to be amended to delete the provisions it includes for
the multi-dwelling zones.  The existing components of the a-overlay zone provide options for
additional housing density in the multi-dwelling zones where it is mapped.  The current options
include:
 50 percent additional density in the R1, R2 and R3 zones for projects approved through
discretionary design review (Type III process).
 In the R2 zone, allowances for triplexes on sites usually limited to two units and also
allowances for flag lots, for projects meeting design standards or approved through design
review.
These a-overlay provisions for the multi-dwelling zones are being deleted, since the proposed multi-
dwelling zone regulations will allow much of the flexibility for additional housing units provided by
the a-overlay allowances.  This is primarily due to the proposed shift to regulating development
intensity by FAR in the new RM1 and RM2 zones (former R3, R2, R1), instead of by unit density (see
pages 54-57).  For example, the new RM1 zone will allow a triplex or a fourplex (or more units) on a
5,000 square foot lot, instead of the current R2 zone limit of two units.  This new base zone
flexibility makes the a-overlay provisions for the multi-dwelling zones redundant.

In conjunction with the deletion of the a-overlay provisions for the multi-dwelling zones, the Zoning
Map is being amended to remove a-overlay zoning from all the multi-dwelling zones, as well as from
small areas of non-residential zoning (for which the a-overlay includes no regulations).  This map
shows areas where the a-overlay is being removed.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 229
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.405 Alternative Design Density Overlay Zone
405

Sections:
General
33.405.010 Purpose
33.405.020 Short Name and Map Symbol
33.405.030 Applying the Alternative Design Density Overlay Zone
Development Standards
33.405.050 Bonus Density for Design Review
33.405.060 Attached Houses on Vacant Lots in the R5 Zone
33.405.070 Alternative Development Options in the R2 and R2.5 Zones
33.405.080 Nonconforming Multi-Dwelling Housing
33.405.090 Design Review and Community Design Standards
33.405.100 Review for Timeliness

General
33.405.010 Purpose
The purpose of the Alternative Design Density Overlay Zone is to focus development on vacant sites,
preserve existing housing and encourage new development that is compatible with and supportive of
the positive qualities of residential neighborhoods. The concept for the zone is to allow increased
density for development that meets additional design compatibility requirements.
33.405.020 Short Name and Map Symbol
The Alternative Design Density Overlay Zone is referred to as the ADD zone, and is shown on the Official
Zoning Maps with the letter “a” map symbol.
33.405.030 Applying the Alternative Design Density Overlay Zone
The Alternative Design Density Overlay Zone may be established or removed as the result of an area
planning study, reviewed through the legislative procedure. Establishment or removal of the Alternative
Design Density Zone through a quasi-judicial procedure is prohibited. The ADD zone has no effect on
projects in multi-dwellingRH, RX, IR, C, E, or I zones. When property is rezoned to one of these zoning
designations from a zone that is accompanied by the "a," the ADD zone will be deleted from the Official
Zoning Map.
Development Standards
33.405.050 Bonus Density for Design Review
A. Purpose. This section is intended to encourage the provision of well designed housing that is
attractive and compatible with an area’s established character. Increased density through this
bonus provision is allowed in areas zoned for multi-dwelling development. These areas include
those within the ADD zone that have a base zone of R1, R2, or R3.

Commentary

Page 230 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
Chapter 33.405 Alternative Design Density Overlay Overlay Zone (continued)
33.405.070 Alternative Development Options in the R2 and R2.5 Zones
This section is being amended to remove the R2 (new RM1) zone, since proposed base zone
amendments to Chapter 33.120 will allow triplexes (or even more units) on standard 5,000 square
foot lots in the new RM1 zone, making this a-overlay provision redundant.  See also previous
commentary.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 231
 Zoning Code Amendments
B. Where the bonus may apply. The bonus density for design review is applicable in areas within
the ADD zone that are zoned R3, R2, or R1. It is not, however, allowed on sites in design or
historic resource zones.
C. Bonus density. Fifty percent more dwelling units than allowed by the base zone is granted for
projects that voluntarily go through a Type III design review process. If a land division is
required or requested, the design review process must be concurrent with the land division.
Design review must be approved in order for the land division to be approved. The
development will be judged against the Community Design Guidelines.
D. Relationship to other density bonuses. Development taking advantage of the provisions of this
section is not eligible for density bonus allowed by other sections of the code, including Section
33.120.265, Amenity Bonuses.
33.405.070 Alternative Development Options in the R2 and R2.5 Zones
A. Purpose. The provisions of this section offer opportunities for enhancing the variety of housing
types and building forms that are found in areas zoned for attached or low-density multi-
dwelling residential development. Such areas generally include a mixture of single-dwelling
detached and small multi-dwelling development. A variety of types of housing in areas
receiving infill development will improve continuity with the character of the existing buildings.
B. Triplex. [No change]
C. Flag lots averaging 2,500 square feet. Lots in the R2 and R2.5 zone may be developed as flag
lots with an average area of 2,500 square feet when the proposed development meets all of
the following requirements:
1.-5. [No change]
D. Design review required. [No change]

Commentary

Page 232 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
Chapter 33.405 Alternative Design Density Overlay Overlay Zone
Table 405-1
Changes to this table reflect updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.  Although the provisions of
Chapter 33.405 will only apply to single dwelling zones, this table shows the maximum limits that
apply to other zones in other situations where the Community Design Standards serve as an
alternative to discretionary design review.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 233
 Zoning Code Amendments

Table 405-1
Maximum Limits for Use of the Community Design Standards
Zones Maximum Limit—New Dwelling Units or Floor Area
Single Dwelling Zones 5 dwelling units
RM1R2 & R3 Zones 10 dwelling units
RM2, RM3, RM4R1, RH, RX,
C, & E Zones
20,000 sq. ft. of floor area
I Zones 40,000 sq. ft. of floor area
IR Zone See institution's Impact Mitigation Plan or Conditional Use Master Plan.
Zones Maximum Limit—Exterior Alterations
All except IR • For street facing facades less than 3,000 square feet, alterations affecting
less than 1,500 square feet of the facade.
• For street facing facades 3,000 square feet and larger, alterations
affecting less than 50% of the facade area.
IR Zone See institution's Impact Mitigation Plan or Conditional Use Master Plan.

Commentary

Page 234 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments

Chapter 33.612 Lots in Multi-Dwelling Zones
Amendments to this page relate to the proposed shift to regulating development intensity in the
multi-dwelling zones by FAR, instead of maximum unit densities.

Also, reference to minimum density in Chapter 33.150 (Campus Institutional) is being removed, since
this chapter has no minimum residential densities.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 235
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.612 Lots in Multi-Dwelling Zones
and IR 612

Sections:
33.612.010 Purpose
33.612.020 Where These Standards Apply
33.612.100 Density
33.612.200 Lot Dimension Standards
33.612.010 Purpose
This chapter contains the density and lot dimension standards for approval of a Preliminary Plan for a
land division in the multi-dwelling and IR zones. These standards ensure that lots are consistent with the
desired character of each zone. This chapter works in conjunction with other chapters of this Title to
ensure that land divisions create lots that can support appropriate development and uses in accordance
with the planned intensity of the zone.
33.612.020 Where These Standards Apply
The standards of this chapter apply to land divisions in the multi-dwelling and IR zones.
33.612.100 Density
A. Single-dwelling or duplex development. When single-dwelling or duplex development is
proposed for some or all of the site, the applicant must show how the proposed lots can meet
the minimum density and not exceed the maximum density stated in Chapter 33.120 or in
Chapter 33.150. Site area devoted to streets is subtracted from the total site area in order to
calculate minimum and maximum density. However, the area used for common greens and
shared courts is not subtracted from the total site area to calculate maximum density.
B. All other development. When development other than single-dwelling or duplex is proposed,
minimum and maximum density must be met at the time of development.
33.612.200 Lot Dimension Standards
A. Purpose. These standards ensure that:
 Each lot has enough room for development that meets all the requirements of the
zoning code;
 Lots are an appropriate size and shape so that development on each lot can be oriented
toward the street as much as possible.
 The multi-dwelling zones can be developed to full potential; and
 Housing goals for the City are met.
B. Lot dimensions. Minimum lot dimensions are stated in Table 612-1.
1. Minimum lot dimensions for lots that will be developed with residential structures are
stated in Table 612-1.
2. Nonconforming uses. Minimum lot dimensions for lots with nonconforming uses are the
same as those for detached houses.

Commentary

Page 236 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments

Table 612-1
Minimum Lot Dimensions

The column for the R3 zone is being removed to reflect the R3 zone’s deletion from Chapter 33.120
(Multi-Dwelling Zones).

“Attached Duplexes” are being added the section of the
table that applies to Attached Houses, due to these
housing types’ similar characteristics.  In many cities
where rowhouses with attached sidewalls are common,
attached duplexes are a common rowhouse variant and
are often located on the same size lots as standard
rowhouses.  This change will provide attached duplexes
with the same lot dimension requirements as applies to
attached houses to allow for feasible development
configurations.

“Triplexes” and “Fourplexes” are being added to the
section of the table currently provided for duplexes.
Triplexes and fourplexes are currently considered to be
“multi-dwelling structures,” which in most of the multi-
dwelling zones require a minimum size of 10,000 square
feet for new lots.  The BHD amendments are
redefining triplexes and fourplexes as distinct
structure types appropriate for small residential lots,
and regulate these housing types in Chapter 33.120
similarly to other small-lot “middle housing” types,
such as duplexes and attached houses.  The
amendments to this table will allow triplexes and
fourplexes on small lots, as is currently the case with
duplexes.

“Duplexes” are being moved to the same section of the
table for detached houses.  Allowing duplexes on the
same size lots as detached houses is necessary to
comply with House Bill 2001, which requires duplexes to
be allowed on each lot zoned for residential uses that
allows for the development of detached single-family
dwellings.

Attached duplexes. The move to a scale/FAR-based
approach could open up new opportunities for this type
of housing, which is similar in form to attached houses.
When each duplex is built on a separate foundation,
they can be constructed using 1-2 dwelling building
code regulations.
Example of a duplex on a small lot (less than 2,000
square feet in size).
 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 237
 Zoning Code Amendments
Table 612-1
Minimum Lot Dimensions
 R3 RM1R2 RM2R1 RM3RH RM4 RX RMP IR (1)
Lots to be developed with:
Multi-Dwelling Structures
or Development:

Minimum Lot Area 6,000 sq.
ft.
4,000 sq.
ft.
10,000
sq. ft.
10,000
sq. ft.
10,000
sq. ft.
None 10,000
sq. ft.
10,000
sq. ft.
Minimum Lot Width 50 ft. 33 ft. 70 ft. 70 ft. 70 ft. None 70 ft. 70 ft.
Minimum Lot Depth 70 ft. 70 ft. 70 ft. 100 ft. 100 ft. None 100 ft. 100 ft.
Minimum Front Lot Line 50 ft. 30 ft. 70 ft. 70 ft. 70 ft. 10 ft. 70 ft. 70 ft.
Attached Houses and
Attached Duplexes

Minimum Lot Area 1,600 sq.
ft.
1,600 sq.
ft.
None None None None NA None
Minimum Lot Width 15 ft. 15 ft. 15 ft. None None None NA None
Minimum Lot Depth None None None None None None NA None
Minimum Front Lot Line 15 ft. 15 ft. 15 ft. 10 ft. 10 ft. 10 ft. NA 10 ft.
Detached Houses and
Duplexes

Minimum Lot Area 1,600 sq.
ft.
1,600 sq.
ft.
None None None None NA None
Minimum Lot Width 25 ft. 25 ft. 25 ft. None None None NA None
Minimum Lot Depth None None None None None None NA None
Minimum Front Lot Line 25 ft. 25 ft. 25 ft. 10 ft. 10 ft. 10 ft. NA 10 ft.
Triplexes and Fourplexes
Duplexes

Minimum Lot Area 4,000 sq.
ft.
2,000 sq.
ft.
None None None None NA 2,000 sq.
ft.
Minimum Lot Width 50 ft. 33 ft. None None None None NA None
Minimum Lot Depth 50 ft. 50 ft. None None None None NA None
Minimum Front Lot Line 50 ft. 30 ft. 10 ft. 10 ft. 10 ft. 10 ft. NA 30 ft.
Notes:
[1] This regulation may be superseded by an Impact Mitigation Plan.

Commentary

Page 238 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments

33.910 Definitions

Courtyard
This definition is being modified for clarity.  The existing definition left uncertainty regarding
whether or not a building setback could be considered to be a “courtyard” (regulations in some
Zoning Code chapters require building entrance to either be oriented to a street or to a courtyard
that provides a connection to a street).
The modified definition clarifies that courtyards are surrounded by buildings on at least two sides.
The reference to courtyards being designed for use by pedestrians is intended to clarify that
courtyards are not vehicle parking areas.  Minimum dimensions for courtyards are found in specific
regulations (these minimum dimensions can vary).

Garage
This definition is being amended to include triplexes and fourplexes, which were both previously
defined as multi-dwelling structures. This brings consistency in applying standards for garages to
small residential structures, treating parking for triplexes and fourplexes in common with other
small residential housing types, such as houses, attached houses, and duplexes (instead of applying
standards for “parking structures” that apply to much larger multi-dwelling structures).

Examples of two-sided (left)
and three-sided (right)
courtyards.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 239
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.910 Definitions
 910

Exterior Courtyard. An outdoor area, designed for use by pedestrians, surrounded on at least two sides
by buildings and open on at least one side to an abutting right-of-way. An area enclosed in part by
buildings or walls and open on at least one side to an adjacent right-of-way.

Garage. A covered structure that is accessory to a use in a house, attached house, duplex, triplex,
fourplex, manufactured dwelling, or houseboat, and that:
 Is designed to provide shelter for vehicles;
 Is connected to a right-of-way by a driveway; and
 Has an opening that is at least 8-feet wide.
Carports are considered garages. Floor area adjacent to the space designed to provide shelter for
vehicles, if not entirely separated from the garage area by floor-to-ceiling walls, is considered part of the
garage. A garage may be attached to or detached from another structure. See also Structured Parking.

Commentary

Page 240 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.910 Definitions (continued)

Residential Structure Types

Fourplex. A new definition of fourplex is being added to differentiate this small-scale housing type
from multi-dwelling structures, which can be much larger in scale and numbers of units.  Including
this new definition also accommodates Residential Infill Project proposals to allow fourplexes (four
units in one structure) on some R2.5, R5, and R7 lots.

Multi-Dwelling Development. The example in the definition is removed because it creates
confusion. The terms “house” and “duplex” are defined as structures located on their own lots.
Therefore, the statement that a “duplex in front with either 1 or more single dwelling houses
behind or 1 or more duplex units or multi-dwelling structures behind ” is not technically accurate.
The moment a separate primary unit in a separate building is added to a site with a house or duplex,
the site is considered multi-dwelling development.

Multi-Dwelling Structure. The definition is being changed to reflect that triplexes and fourplexes
are no longer defined as a multi-dwelling structure type, but are their own distinct structure type,
like “duplexes”. This makes these residential structure types mutually exclusive and removes
overlap.

Triplex. Triplexes are not a new residential structure type, but they had previously been
considered a subset of multi-dwelling structures. They are now redefined as their own structure
type (distinct from multi-dwelling structures), but continue to be defined as three dwelling units in
one structure on a lot.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 241
 Zoning Code Amendments
Residential Structure Types
 Accessory Dwelling Unit. [no change]
 Attached Duplex. [no change]
 Attached House. [No change]
• Duplex. [No change]
• Dwelling Unit. [No change]
 Fourplex. A structure that contains four primary dwelling units on one lot. Each unit must share
a common wall or common floor/ceiling with at least one other unit.
• Group Living Facility. [No change]
• House. [No change]
• Houseboat Moorage. [No change]
• Manufactured Dwelling. [No change]
 Multi-Dwelling Development. A grouping of individual structures where each structure contains 1
or more dwelling units. The land underneath the structures is not divided into separate lots. A multi-
dwelling development project may include an existing single-dwelling detached building with 1 or
more new detached structures located to the rear or the side of the existing house. It might also
include a duplex in front with either 1 or more single dwelling houses behind or 1 or more duplex
units or multi-dwelling structures behind. The key characteristic of this housing type is that there is
no requirement for the structures on the sites to be attached.
 Multi-Dwelling Structure. A structure that contains threefive or more dwelling units that share
common walls or floor/ceilings with one or more units. The land underneath the structure is not
divided into separate lots. Multi-dwelling includes structures commonly called garden
apartments, apartments, and condominiums.
 Single Room Occupancy Housing (SRO). [No change]
 Triplex. A multi-dwelling structure that contains three primary dwelling units on one lot. Each
unit must share a common wall or common floor/ceiling with at least one other unit.

Commentary

Page 242 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.910 Definitions (continued)

Street Types
Street type definitions are being updated to correctly identify the Transportation System Plan
(TSP) as the source of the transit street classifications.
Local Service Street – this new definition is being added because several zoning code regulations
refer to “local service streets,” but this is not currently defined and the term does not entirely
match TSP terminology.

Structured Parking
The revisions to the definition of “garage” added triplexes and fourplexes. Consequently, these
residential structure types are being identified as not being associated with “Structured parking”.

 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 243
 Zoning Code Amendments

Street Types. See also Alley, Pedestrian Connection, Right-of-Way, and Roadway.
Arterial. Any street that is not a Local Service Traffic Street according to the Transportation Element
of the Comprehensive PlanTransportation System Plan. It includes Regional Trafficways, Major
City Traffic Streets, District and Neighborhood Collectors, and Traffic Access Streets.
Common Green. A street that provides for pedestrian and bicycle access, but not vehicle access, to
abutting property and generally provides a common area for use by residents. A common green
may function as a community yard. Hard and soft landscape features may be included in a
common green, such as groundcover, trees, shrubs, surfaced paths, patios, benches, or gazebos.
Dead-End Street. A street that connects to another street at only one end, or extends from an
existing dead-end street. Dead-end streets serve 2 or more lots that have frontage only on the
dead-end street. A pedestrian connection may extend from the end of a dead-end street to
connect with another street of any type, or with another pedestrian connection.
Local Service Street. A street that is a Local Service Traffic Street according to the Transportation
System Plan.
Partial Street. A partial street is one or more parts of a dead-end street or through street; each part
usually is located on a different site. Partial streets are created when a street will be completed
in stages, on more than one site. Partial streets may include the whole or part of a turnaround,
part of the total width, or part of the total length.
Shared Court. A street that is designed to accommodate – within the same circulation space –
access for vehicles, pedestrians, and bicycles to abutting property. Instead of a sidewalk area
that is separate from vehicle areas, a shared court is surfaced with paving blocks, bricks or other
ornamental pavers to clearly indicate that the entire street is intended for pedestrians as well as
vehicles. A shared court may also include traffic calming measures to ensure safe co-existence of
pedestrians, vehicles, and bicycles. Like a common green, a shared court may function as a
community yard. Hard and soft landscape features and street furniture may be included in a
shared court, such as trees, shrubs, lighting fixtures, and benches.
Street. A right-of-way that is intended for motor vehicle, pedestrian or bicycle travel or for motor
vehicle, bicycle or pedestrian access to abutting property. For the purposes of this Title, street
does not include alleys, rail rights-of-way that do not also allow for motor vehicle access, or the
interstate freeways and the Sunset Highway including their ramps.
Through Street. A street that connects to other streets at both ends.
Transit Street. A street that is classified in the Transportation Element of the Comprehensive
PlanTransportation System Plan as:
A Major Transit Priority Street, Transit Access Street, or Community Transit Street; or
A Regional Transitway not also classified as a Regional Trafficway, according to the
Transportation Element of the Comprehensive PlanTransportation System Plan.  Regional
Transitways that are entirely subsurface are not included for the purposes of this Title.

Structured Parking. A covered structure or portion of a covered structure that provides parking areas
for motor vehicles. Parking on top of a structure—where there is gross building area below the parking,
but nothing above it—is structured parking. The structure can be the primary structure for a Commercial
Parking facility or be accessory to multi-dwelling residential, commercial, employment, industrial,
institutional, or other structures. A structure that is accessory to a single-dwelling residential structure
(including houses, attached houses, duplexes, triplexes, fourplexes, manufactured dwellings, or
houseboats) is a garage and is not included as structured parking. See also Garage, Parking Area, and
Underground Parking.

Commentary

Page 244 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments

33.930.025 Measuring Development Standards
This section is being amended to allow calculation of floor area ratios to be determined
prior to right-of-way dedication.  This will remove a disincentive to the creation of new
street connections to facilitate the expansion of the street systems and connectivity as
development occurs.  Currently, floor area allowances are calculated after right-of-way
dedication reduces the size of a property.  This reduction of development potential when
streets are provided has served as a barrier to creating new street connections, especially
on small sites where area needed for street connections can occupy a relatively high
portion of site area (such as the narrow, deep sites common in East Portland).

Not reflected in this paragraph is that land divisions will continue to have a separate
methodology for calculating the effect of street dedications on allowed densities.

Currently, development that provides
a public street connection loses
development allowances (above),
while a development that only
includes a private driveway (below)
has no such loss of development
potential.
 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 245
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.930 Measurements 930

33.930.025 Measuring Development Standards
Unless otherwise stated below or elsewhere in this Title, all measurements involving development
standards are based on the property lines and area of the site after dedication of public rights-of-way
and/or designation of private rights-of-way. Standards include, but are not limited to, building coverage,
floor area ratio, setbacks, and landscaping requirements. When site area is being dedicated forto widen
an existing public right-of-way, calculation of floor area ratio is based on the site area at the time of
building permit application.

Commentary

Page 246 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.930.050 Measuring Height
Amendments to this page provide multi-dwelling structures in multi-dwelling zones the opportunity
to use the same height measurement methodology that applies in the commercial/mixed use zones.
This allows for height to be measured from the elevation of the adjacent sidewalk.  This allowance
anticipates changes to the base point height measurements proposed by the Residential Infill
Project, which proposes to measure building height from the lower base point (instead of the
current higher base point).  For multi-dwelling structures, measurement from the low point would
have the effect of penalizing projects with below-grade structured parking (as in image, below),
because the new height measurement base point would be the elevation of the below-grade
driveway ramp.  The proposed amendments would allow the building height of multi-dwelling
structures to instead be measured from the sidewalk, while also providing the option to use the
standard height measurement methodology that will apply outside the commercial/mixed use zones.
This helps accommodate below-grade structured parking, which can be preferable from a design
perspective to structured parking that occupies the ground-level of buildings.
The amendment to the bulleted subparagraph regarding flat roofs accommodates allowances for
parapets and railings to extend above building height limits in the multi-dwelling zones (see pages
82-83).  Only the single-dwelling residential zones, where there is a greater priority on
compatibility of building scale, will measure the height of flat roofs to the top of the parapet.
There are no changes to the rest of the text of this section or to the figures.

Driveway ramp providing access to below-
grade structured parking.  Amendments
to the Measuring Height section will allow
for building height to be measured from
the sidewalk elevation, instead of being
based on the low point of the driveway
ramp.
 Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough

December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 247
 Zoning Code Amendments
33.930.050 Measuring Height
A. Measuring building height. Height of buildings is generally measured as provided in the Oregon
Structural Specialty Code (the Uniform Building Code as amended by the State.) The height of
buildings is the vertical distance above the base point described in Paragraphs A.1. or A.2.,
unless the site is in a commercial/mixed use zone, in which case the height of buildings is
measured as described in Paragraph A.3, or the site is in a multi-dwelling zone and the
structure is a multi-dwelling structure, in which case the applicant may choose to measure the
height of the building from base point A.1 or A.2, or from base point A.3. The base point used is
the method that yields the greater height of building. Methods to measure specific roof types
are shown below and in Figure 930-5:
 Flat roof (pitch is 2 in 12 or less): Measure to the highest point of the roof except in the
single-dwelling residential zones where the measurement is to the top of the parapet, or if
there is no parapet, to the highest point of the roof.
 Mansard roof: Measure to the deck line.
 Gabled, hipped, or gambrel roof where roof pitch is 12 in 12 or less: Measure to the average
height of the highest gable.
 Gabled or hipped roofs with a pitch steeper than 12 in 12: Measure to the
highest point.
 Gambrel roofs where both pitches are steeper than 12 in 12: Measure to the
highest point.
 Other roof shapes such as domed, shed, vaulted, or pyramidal shapes: Measure to the
highest point.
 Stepped or terraced building: Measure to the highest point of any segment of
the building.
1. Base point 1. Base point 1 is the elevation of the highest adjoining sidewalk or ground
surface within a 5 foot horizontal distance of the exterior wall of the building when such
sidewalk or ground surface is not more than 10 feet above lowest grade. See Figure 930-6.
2. Base point 2. Base point 2 is the elevation that is 10 feet higher than the lowest grade
when the sidewalk or ground surface described in Paragraph 1., above, is more than 10
feet above lowest grade. See Figure 930-7.
3. In the commercial/mixed use zones, the height measurement is based on the location of a
building relative to a street lot line and the elevation of sidewalk area adjacent to the site,
as follows:
a.-b [No change]

Commentary

Page 248 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Zoning Code Amendments

As Amended by
City Council
December 2, 2019
Volume 3:
Additional
Zoning Code
Amendments
EXHIBIT B
Page ii                                           Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
                                                Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments

The Better Housing by Design project is updating Portland’s multi-
dwelling zoning rules to meet needs of current and future residents:
For more information …
Visit the project website: www.portlandoregon.gov/bps/betterhousing
Email the project team: betterhousing@portlandoregon.gov
Call project staff:  503-823-4203

Page iii                                       Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
Summary
This is Volume 3 of the Better Housing by Design As Amended by City Council report. Volume 3 includes
full code and commentary for additional amendments to the Zoning Code and other City titles that
complement the core Zoning Code amendments in Volume 2. The preceding Recommended Draft
incorporated the Portland Planning and Sustainability Commission’s (PSC) changes to the earlier
Proposed Draft and served as the PSC’s recommendation to City Council. The As Amended report
includes amendments passed by City Council on November 21, 2019.
The major components of the Better Housing by Design proposals include the following (code language
for these major proposals are in Volume 2):
 Diverse housing options and affordability. Amendments provide more flexibility for a diverse
range of housing options – regulating development intensity by building size instead of numbers
of units – and prioritize incentives for affordable housing and physically-accessible units.
 Outdoor spaces and green elements. Amendments expand requirements for outdoor spaces for
residents, provide more options for innovative green options to meet landscaping requirements,
reduce parking requirements, and limit large paved areas.
 Building design and scale. Amendments include design standards that limit front garages,
require entrances oriented to the street, facilitate compact development, and provide new
design options for development on major corridors.
 East Portland standards and street connections. Amendments include standards focused on
improving outcomes in East Portland, including approaches to facilitate new street connections.
Other major components that are part of the As Amended report include a new array of multi-dwelling
zones and related Zoning Map changes, and corresponding changes to Comprehensive Plan land use
designations.
Volume 3 includes amendments to commercial/mixed use zone regulations (Chapter 33.130) and other
Zoning Code chapters to bring consistency with the core Better Housing by Design proposals for the
multi-dwelling zones found in Volume 2.

Next Steps
City Council held public hearings on the Better Housing by Design Recommended Draft on October 2 and
November 6 of 2019. City Council deliberated and voted on amendments to the Recommended Draft on
November 21, 2019. City Council is scheduled to make a final decision on the Better Housing by Design
provisions on December 18, 2019, with the effective date for the new regulations and map amendments
scheduled for March 1, 2020. Project updates will be posted on the project website:
www.portlandoregon.gov/bps/betterhousing.

Page iv                                           Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
                                                Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
Volume 3
Additional Zoning Code Amendments

This volume presents proposed amendments to Title 33 (Zoning Code), Title 18 (Noise Control), and Title
32 (Signs and Related Regulations) of the City Code.  These proposed amendments complement the core
Zoning Code amendments presented in Volume 2.  See the Introduction, page 1, for more information
on the types of amendments included in Volume 3.
This document is formatted to facilitate readability by showing draft code amendments on the right-
hand pages and related commentary on the facing left-hand pages.
The code amendments appear on the odd-numbered pages. Text that is added is underlined, and text to
be deleted is shown with strikethrough. To reduce the size of the document, provisions of code that are
not proposed to change are indicated by “[No Change]”.

Page v                                       Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments

Table of Contents
Introduction ..........................................................................................................................1
Section 1:  Zoning Code Amendments
 33.130 Commercial Zones ...............................................................................................5
 33.140 Employment and Industrial Zones .......................................................................51
 33.150 Campus Institutional Zones .................................................................................55
 33.218 Community Design Standards ..............................................................................61
 33.229 Elderly and Disabled High Density Housing* .......................................................69
 33.239 Group Living .........................................................................................................71
 33.251 Manufactured Homes and Manufactured Dwelling Parks* ................................73
 33.270 Planned Development .........................................................................................75
 33.285 Short Term Housing and Mass Shelters* .............................................................79
 33.296 Temporary Activities* ..........................................................................................83
 33.415 Centers Main Street Overlay Zone.......................................................................87
 33.420 Design Overlay Zone ............................................................................................91
 33.445 Historic Resources Overlay Zone .........................................................................95
 33.470 Portland International Airport Noise Impact Zone* ............................................105
 33.480 Scenic Resource Zone* ........................................................................................107
 33.505 Albina Community Plan District……………………………………………………………………….109
33.510 Central City Plan District* ....................................................................................119
 33.521 East Corridor Plan District ....................................................................................123
 33.526 Gateway Plan District ...........................................................................................127
 33.532 Hayden Island Plan District* ................................................................................129
 33.534 Hillsdale Plan District* .........................................................................................131
 33.536 Hollywood Plan District ........................................................................................133
 33.537 Johnson Creek Basin Plan District ........................................................................141
 33.545 Lombard Street Plan District* ..............................................................................143
 33.561 North Interstate Plan District ...............................................................................145
 33.562 Northwest Plan District ........................................................................................151
Page vi                                           Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
                                                Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
 33.564 Pleasant Valley Plan District ................................................................................155
 33.575 Sandy Boulevard Plan District* ............................................................................157
 33.583 St. Johns Plan District ...........................................................................................163
 33.631 Sites in Flood Hazard Areas*................................................................................165
 33.634 Required Recreation Area* ..................................................................................167
 33.667 Property Line Adjustment* ..................................................................................169
 33.805 Adjustments* .......................................................................................................171
 33.815 Conditional Uses* ................................................................................................173
 33.825 Design Review ......................................................................................................177
 33.846 Historic Resource Reviews* .................................................................................181
 33.854 Planned Development Review* ...........................................................................185
 33.855 Zoning Map Amendments* .................................................................................187

Section 2:  Amendments to Titles 18 and 32
 Title 18, Noise Control………………………………………………………………………………………………..193
 Title 32, Signs and Related Regulations………………………………………………………………………195

*Amendments are to multi-dwelling zone names only.

December 2, 2019                          Better Housing by Design—As Amended  Page 1
                                                    Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
Introduction
This volume contains additional zoning code amendments that complement the core zoning
code amendments presented in Volume 2.  The Staff Report (Volume 1) provides a
comprehensive summary and analysis of the major Better Housing by Design proposals.

The proposed zoning code amendments in this volume include the following types of
amendments:

1. Changes to multi-dwelling zone names in various zoning code chapters to correspond
to the proposed new multi-dwelling zone names (such as changing “R1” to “RM2”).
These minor amendments are the majority of the changes in this document. Page 2 of
this document summarizes the current zones and their corresponding new zones.
2. Amendments to other zoning code chapter regulations intended to be similar to
corresponding regulations in Chapter 33.120.  These amendments are based on
changes to Chapter 33.120 regulations and are proposed in order to maintain regulatory
consistency.  An example of this type of amendment are changes to the Required
Outdoor Areas requirements in Chapter 33.130 that apply to multi-dwelling
development in the commercial/mixed use zones (see page 33), to correspond to
proposed amendments to similar regulations in the multi-dwelling zones.
3. Amendments to plan district regulations to discontinue regulations that are redundant
with proposed new multi-dwelling zone regulations.  An example of this type of
amendment is the discontinuation of allowances for ground-floor commercial uses in
the RH zone provided by some plan districts along major corridors, given that proposed
amendments to Chapter 33.120 (see Volume 2, pages 32-34) will allow limited amounts
of commercial uses in multi-dwelling zones along major corridors citywide.  See pages
109-163 for plan district amendments.
4. Amendments to discontinue some plan district regulations that provide minimum
densities that are lower than Chapter 33.120 base zone minimum densities.  These
amendments affect RH (new RM3 and RM4) zoning in the Albina and North Interstate
plan districts (see page 111 and 149) and the R1 (RM2) zone in the St. Johns plan district
(see page 163).  These areas are along a Civic Corridor, near light rail stations, and in a
Town Center that are intended to be a focus for higher-density housing, but allow a low-
scale of development that is equivalent to R2 densities intended for duplexes or
townhouses.  These amendments are part of a broader Better Housing by Design
approach intended to strengthen minimum density requirements.

Page 2                                           Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
                                                Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments

December 2, 2019                          Better Housing by Design—As Amended  Page 3
                                                    Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
Section 1:
Zoning Code Amendments

Commentary

Page 4 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.130 Commercial Zones
The listing of Chapter 33.130 code sections is being modified to reflect a change to the title of
Section 33.130.250 (see page 41).

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 5
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.130 Commercial Zones
130

Sections:
General
33.130.010 Purpose
33.130.020 List of the Commercial/Mixed Use Zones
33.130.030 Characteristics of the Zones
33.130.040 Other Zoning Regulations
33.130.050 Neighborhood Contact
Use Regulations
33.130.100 Primary Uses
33.130.110 Accessory Uses
33.130.130 Nuisance-Related Impacts
Development Standards
33.130.200 Lot Size
33.130.205 Floor Area Ratio
33.130.207 Minimum Density
33.130.210 Height
33.130.212 Floor Area and Height Bonus Options
33.130.215 Setbacks
33.130.220 Building Coverage
33.120.222 Building Length and Façade Articulation
33.130.225 Landscaped Areas
33.130.227 Trees
33.130.228 Required Outdoor Areas
33.130.230 Windows
33.130.235 Screening
33.130.240 Pedestrian Standards
33.130.242 Transit Street Main Entrance
33.130.245 Exterior Display, Storage, and Work Activities
33.130.250 General Requirements for Small Housing Types Houses, Attached Houses, Manufactured
Homes, and Duplexes
33.130.255 Trucks and Equipment
33.130.260 Drive-Through Facilities
33.130.265 Detached Accessory Structures
33.130.270 Fences
33.130.275 Demolitions
33.130.285 Nonconforming Development
33.130.290 Parking, Loading, and Transportation Demand Management
33.130.292 Street and Pedestrian Connections
33.130.295 Signs
33.130.305 Superblock Requirements
33.130.310 Recycling Areas

Commentary

Page 6 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.130.030 Characteristics of the Zones
This section is being amended to add language to clarify that the design (“d”) overlay zone will
always be applied to the higher-density CM3 and CX zones.
This application of the d-overlay zone to these higher-density zones is not a new approach, but
there had in the past been inconsistency with the application of this overlay in historic or
conservation districts.  Moving forward, the d-overlay will always be applied to these zones,
regardless of location, although development in historic or conservation districts will be subject to
historic resources review and will be exempt from design review.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 7
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.130.030 Characteristics of the Zones
A.-C. [No change]
D. Commercial/Mixed Use 3 zone. The Commercial/Mixed Use 3 (CM3) zone is a large-scale zone
intended for sites in high-capacity transit station areas, in town centers, along streetcar
alignments, along civic corridors, and in locations close to the Central City. It is intended to be
an intensely urban zone and is not appropriate for sites where adjacent properties have single-
dwelling residential zoning. The zone allows a wide range and mix of commercial and
residential uses, as well as employment uses that have limited off-site impacts. Buildings in this
zone will generally be up to six stories tall unless height and floor area bonuses are used, or
plan district provisions specify other height limits. Development is intended to be pedestrian-
oriented, with buildings that contribute to an urban environment with a strong street edge of
buildings. The scale of development is intended to be larger than what is allowed in lower
intensity commercial/mixed use and residential zones. Design review is typically required inThe
Design overlay zone is applied to this zone.
E. [No change]
F. Central Commercial zone. The Central Commercial (CX) zone is intended to provide for
commercial and mixed use development within Portland's most urban and intense areas,
specifically the Central City and the Gateway Regional Center. A broad range of uses are
allowed to reflect Portland's role as a commercial, cultural, residential, and governmental
center. Development is intended to be very intense with high building coverage, large
buildings, and buildings placed close together. Development is intended to be pedestrian-
oriented with a strong emphasis on a safe and attractive streetscape. The Design overlay zone
is applied to this zone.

Commentary

Page 8 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.130.205.B FAR Standard
This paragraph is being amended to exempt indoor common areas (such as community or recreation
rooms), used to meet residential outdoor area requirements, from maximum FAR calculations, so
that providing indoor common areas does not reduce the amount of building space available for
residential units. The amended code shows language regarding an FAR exemption for required
bicycle parking recently approved by City Council for the Bicycle Parking Code Update.

33.130.205.C Transfer of floor area from historic resources
Amendments to this paragraph include:
Transfer of floor area from historic resources - additional FAR transfer allowance for seismic
upgrades. Amendments to the historic resources transfer provision will allow an additional amount
of FAR (beyond the amount of unused development capacity), equivalent to 50 percent of the base
FAR of each zone, to be transferred to other sites, but use of this additional increment of
transferable FAR will only be available in conjunction with seismic upgrades.  This amendment is
consistent with changes proposed for the multi-dwelling zones (Chapter 33.120) and is intended to
provide an incentive for seismic upgrades to historic buildings by helping to defray the costs of
these upgrades.
This regulation uses an existing provision that applies in the Central City, but will extend it to multi-
dwelling and mixed use zones citywide.  The need for seismic upgrades to unreinforced masonry
buildings (URMs) is an especially important issue for Portland’s historic resources, as nearly 600
historic buildings are URMs – often brick - and seismic upgrades are costly.

(See also commentary on next commentary page)

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 9
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.130.205 Floor Area Ratio
A. [No change]
B. FAR standard. The maximum floor area ratios are stated in Table 130-2 and apply to all uses
and development. Additional floor area may be allowed through bonus options, as described in
Section 33.130.212, or transferred from historic resources per Subsection C. Except in the CR
zone, floor area for structured parking and required long-term bike parking, up to a maximum
FAR of 0.5 to 1, is not calculated as part of the FAR for the site. Adjustments to the maximum
floor area ratios are prohibited. Except in the CR zone, floor area does not include the
following:
1. Floor area for structured parking and required long-term bicycle parking not located in a
dwelling unit, up to a maximum FAR of 0.5 to 1; and
2. Floor area for indoor common area used to meet the requirements of Section 33.130.228.
C. Transfer of floor area from historic resources. Floor area ratios may be transferred from a site
that contains a historic resource, as follows:
1. Sending sites. FAR may be transferred from a site that contains a Historic or Conservation
landmark or a contributing resource in a Historic or Conservation district. Sites that are
eligible to send floor area through this transfer are allowed to transfer:
a. Unused FAR up to the maximum FAR allowed by the zone; and
b. An additional amount equivalent to 50 percent of the maximum FAR for the zone. To
qualify to transfer this additional amount of FAR, the Bureau of Development of
Services must verify that the landmark or contributing resource on the site meets one
of the following:
(1) If the building is classified as Risk category I or II, as defined in the Oregon
Structural Specialty Code, it has been shown to meet or exceed the American
Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) 41- BPOE improvement standard as defined in City
of Portland Title 24.85;
(2) If the building is classified as Risk category III or IV, as defined in the Oregon
Structural Specialty Code, it has been shown to meet or exceed the ASCE41- BPON
improvement standard as defined in City of Portland Title 24.85; or
(3) The owner of the landmark or contributing resource has entered into a phased
seismic agreement with the City of Portland as described in Section 24.85.
1. Sending sites. Sites eligible to transfer floor area must contain:
a. A Historic or Conservation landmark; or
b. A contributing resource in a Historic District or a Conservation District.

Commentary

Page 10 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.130.205.C Transfer of floor area from historic resources (continued)
Receiving sites.  Other amendments to this section allow FAR to be transferred to sites with
commercial/mixed-use or multi-dwelling zoning citywide, including sites within historic districts,
consistent with proposed FAR transfer allowances in the multi-dwelling zones.  This is being done to
increase the feasibility of FAR transfers by increasing the numbers of potential receiving sites.
Staff anticipate that FAR transfers will only be used by relatively small projects, since buildings
with 20 or more units qualify for inclusionary housing development bonuses and will not be able to
receive additional FAR from transfers.  Also consistent with the multi-dwelling zones, the
amendments would not allow transfers into the Central City plan district, which has separate FAR
transfer provisions than the rest of the city.  The amendments will continue to prohibit FAR
transfers into the CR zone, where development is intended to remain small scale, in keeping with the
scale of the low-rise residential areas where this zone is located.
FAR transfers are generally prohibited from being used on receiving sites where a historic resource
has been demolished to prevent the additional FAR from serving as an incentive for demolition of
historic resources.  An exception is provided for sites where a historic resource has been
demolished through demolition review, which for National Register Historic Districts and
Landmarks requires review by City Council and is rarely approved (this limitation is intended to help
protect locally-designated Conservation Districts and landmarks, which are not subject to
demolition review and are potentially more vulnerable to redevelopment pressures – this topic will
be more fully considered as part of the upcoming Historic Resources Code Project).

33.130.210 Height
Amendments to this section and its graphic include:
 Updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.
 Elimination of the requirement for building height to step down in height to 45 feet
adjacent to properties with RM2 (current R1) multi-dwelling zoning.  A transition in scale
between mixed use zones and the RM2 zone is not needed, given the role of the RM2 zone
as a relatively high-density zone that allows densities and building height not very different
from mixed use zones.  Step down heights are retained that require transitions in scale on
properties abutting single-dwelling zones and the lowest-scale multi-dwelling zones (RM1 and
RMP).

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 11
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.130.205 Floor Area Ratio [continued from previous code page]

2. Receiving site. The transfer must be to a site that is zoned CM1, CM2, CM3, CE, or CX,
RM1, RM2, RM3, RM4, or RX outside of the Central City plan district. Transferring to a site
that is zoned CR is prohibited. The receiving site must be within the same recognized
neighborhood as the sending site, or within two miles of the transfer site, and must not be
within a Historic or Conservation District. Transferring to a site where a Historic or
Conservation Landmark or a contributing structure in a Historic or Conservation District
has been demolished within the past ten years is prohibited unless the landmark or
contributing structure was destroyed by fire or other causes beyond the control of the
owner, the only structure on the site that was demolished was an accessory structure, or
the demolition was approved through demolition review.
3.-6. [No change]

33.130.210 Height
A. [No change]
B. Height standard.
1. [No change]
2. Step-down height. In the following situations, the base height is reduced, or stepped-
down. Stepped-down height is not required in the CR zone:
a. Step-down adjacent to residential zones. The following step-down height limits apply
within 25 feet of sites zoned residential. Sites with property lines that abut
residential zones for less than a 5-foot length are exempt from these standards:
(1) On the portion of the site within 25 feet of a site zoned RF through R2.5, the
step-down height limit is 35 feet. See Figure 130-1.
(2) On the portion of the site within 25 feet of a site zoned RM1R3 — R1 or RMP,
the step-down height limit is 45 feet. See Figure 130-1.
b. [No change]
C. [No change]

Commentary

Page 12 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.130.210 Height
Amendments to this graphic are updates to the multi-dwelling zone names and to reflect that the
step down height regulation is being amended so that there is no building height step down adjacent
to the RM2 (R1) zone.  See commentary and code on previous pages.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 13
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
Figure 130-1
Step-Down Height Adjacent to Residential Zones

Commentary

Page 14 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.130.210 Height
Amendments to this section include the following:
 Addition of alleys to where this step down height applies, consistent with proposed multi-
dwelling zones regulations.
 Changes to requirements for building height step downs across local service streets or
alleys from single-dwelling zones and low-scale multi-dwelling zones to require a step down
to a 45-foot height, instead of 35 feet.  This change is being made to provide consistency
with proposed step-down height standards in the multi-dwelling zones, and because the
transition to lower-scale zones in this situation takes place across a street.  In combination
with this street separation, the height step down to 45 feet provides a transition gradient
by limiting development to being one story taller than the three-story height allowed in the
R2.5 single-dwelling zone and the RM1 and RMP multi-dwelling zones.  The changes also
discontinue this step down height across a street from the RM2 (current R1) zone, because
the allowed density and scale in this zone is not very different than that of most mixed use
zones.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 15
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
b. Step-down across a local service street or alley from an RF through R1 a residential
zone. In the CM2, CM3, CX, and CE zones the following step-down height limits
applyapplies. The limits does not apply to portions of buildings within 100 feet of a
transit street:. On the portion of the site within 15 feet of a lot line that is across a
local service street or alley from a site zoned RF through R2.5 or RM1 or RMP, the
step-down height limit is 45 feet. See Figure 130-2.
(1) On the portion of the site within 15 feet of a lot line that is across a local service
street from a site zoned RF through R2.5, the step-down height limit is 35 feet.
See figure 130-2.
(2) On the portion of the site within 15 feet of a lot line that is across a local service
street from a site zoned R3 through R1, the step-down height limit is 45 feet.
See Figure 130-2.
3. [No change]
C. [No change]

Commentary

Page 16 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
Table 130-2
Amendments to this table include:
 Updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.
 Correction to the step-down height standard of 35 feet for the CM1 zone abutting single
dwelling zones. Because this step down height is the same as the CM1 base height of 35
feet, there is effectively no step-down height in this zone.  The CM1 zone step down height
is being changed to “NA”, since the base height applies.
 Elimination of the requirement for building height to step down in height to 45 feet
adjacent to or across a street from properties with RM2 (current R1) multi-dwelling zoning.
A transition in scale between mixed use zones and the RM2 zone is not needed, given the
role of the RM2 zone as a relatively high-density zone that allows densities and building
height not very different from mixed use zones.  Step down heights are retained that
require transitions in scale on properties abutting single-dwelling zones and the lowest-scale
multi-dwelling zones (RM1 and RMP).
 Requirements for building height step downs across local service streets from single-
dwelling zones and low-scale multi-dwelling zones are being changed to require a step down
to a 45-foot height (instead of 35 feet).  This change is being made to provide consistency
with proposed step-down height standards in the multi-dwelling zones, and because the
transition to lower-scale zones in this situation takes place across a street.  In combination
with this street separation, the height step down to 45 feet provides a transition gradient
by limiting development to being one story taller than the three-story height allowed in the
R2.5 single-dwelling zone and the RM1 and RMP multi-dwelling zones.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 17
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments

Table 130-2
Summary of Development Standards in Commercial/Mixed Use Zones
Standards CR CM1 CM2 CM3 CE CX
Maximum FAR (see 33.130.205 and
33.130.212)
1 to 1 [1] 1.5 to 1 2.5 to 1 3 to 1 2.5 to 1 4 to 1
- Bonus FAR (see 33.130.212) NA See Table
130-3
See Table
130-3
See Table
130-3
See
Table
130-3
See
Table
130-3
Minimum Density (see 33.130.207) NA NA 1 unit per
1,450 sq. ft. of
site area
1 unit per
1,000 sq. ft.
of site area
NA NA
Base Height (see 33.130.210.B.1) 30 ft. 35 ft. 45 ft. 65 ft. 45 ft. 75 ft.
Step-down Height (see 33.130.210.B.2)
- Within 25 ft. of lot line abutting RF-R2.5
zones
- Within 25 ft. of lot line abutting R3, R2,
R1, RM1 and RMP zones
- Within 15 ft. of lot line across a local
service street from RF – R2.5 zones
- Within 15 ft. of lot line across a local
service street from RF – R2.5 zones and R3,
R2, R1,RM1 and RMP zones
NA NA
35 ft.

35 ft.

35 ft.

35 ft.

35 ft.
NA NA  45 ft.  45 ft.  45 ft.  45 ft.
NA 35 ft.  35 ft.  35 ft.  35 ft.  35 ft.
NA NA  45 ft.  45 ft.  45 ft.  45 ft.
- Bonus Height (see 33.130.212) NA NA See Table
130-3
See Table
130-3
See
Table
130-3
See
Table
130-3
Min. Building Setbacks (see 33.130.215.B)
- Street lot line
- Street lot line abutting selected Civic
Corridors
- Street lot line across a local street from an
RF – RM2R1, or RMP zone

none

none

none

none

none

none
10 ft. 10 ft. 10 ft. 10 ft. 10 ft. 10 ft.
none none 5 or 10 ft. 5 or 10 ft. 5 or 10
ft.
5 or 10
ft.
Min. Building Setbacks (see 33.130.215.B)
- Lot line abutting OS, RX, C, E, or I zoned
lot
- Lot line abutting RF – RM4RH, or RMP, or
IR zoned lot

none

none

none

none

none

none
10 ft. 10 ft. 10 ft. 10 ft. 10 ft. 10 ft.
Max. Building Setbacks (see 33.130.215.C)
- Street lot line
- Street lot line abutting selected Civic
Corridors

10 ft.
20 ft.

10 ft.
20 ft.

10 ft.
20 ft.

10 ft.
20 ft.

10 ft.
20 ft.

10 ft.
20 ft.
Max. Building Coverage (% of site area)
- Inner Pattern Area
- Eastern, Western, and River Pattern Areas
(see 33.130.220)

85%
75%

85%
75%

100%
85%

100%
85%

85%
75%

100%
100%
Min. Landscaped Area (% of site area) (see
33.130.225)
15% 15% 15% 15% 15% None
Landscape buffer abutting an RF – RM4RH
or RMP zoned lot (see 33.130.215.B)
10 ft. @
L3
10 ft. @
L3
10 ft. @ L3 10 ft. @ L3 10 ft. @
L3
10 ft. @
L3
Required Residential Outdoor Area
(see 33.130.228)
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No
Ground Floor Window Standards
(see 33.130.230.B)
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Notes:
[1] On sites that do not have a Retail Sales And Service or Office use, maximum density for Household Living is 1 unit per 2,500
square feet of site area.

Commentary

Page 18 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
Example Illustration
The amendment to the graphic on this page is a change to the text label to reflect the broad
applicability of the minimum building setback that is required adjacent to residential zones.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 19
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments

Example Illustration:
Some building form and setback development standards

Commentary

Page 20 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.130.212 Floor Area and Height Bonus Options
Amendments to this paragraph will allow the use of FAR bonuses in the commercial/mixed use zones
within historic and conservation districts, bringing consistency with allowances in the multi-dwelling
zones.  Development proposals in historic districts will be subject to Historic Resource Review,
which considers context in determining the appropriate scale of new development (scale allowed by
FAR bonuses may not always be approved).  The majority of mixed use zoning in historic and
conservation districts consists of the CM2 zone, which has a base maximum FAR of 2.5 to 1.
Bonuses in this zone will allow up to a 4 to 1 FAR, with base height in historic and conservation
districts limited to 45 feet.  Consistent with the multi-dwelling zone amendments, bonuses are
generally prohibited from being used on sites where a historic resource has been demolished to
prevent bonus FAR from serving as an incentive for demolition of historic resources.  An exception
is provided for sites where a historic resource has been demolished through demolition review, which
provides protection for National Register Historic Districts and Landmarks but does not apply to locally-
designated Conservation Districts and landmarks, which are potentially more vulnerable to redevelopment
pressures (see also commentary on page 8 regarding FAR transfers).
The Planned Development Bonuses is excluded from being used in historic districts because this
bonus provides additional height, not FAR. Also, there are no properties in historic districts with
mixed use zoning that are two acres or more in size.

CM2 zone in historic districts
Building massing of current
maximum FAR and proposed
bonus FAR. The maximum bonus
scale of four stories is similar to
historic buildings in some historic
districts.
Base FAR:  2.5 to 1
(current maximum)
Bonus FAR:  4 to 1
(proposed)
FAR: 3 to 1 (non-historic) FAR: 3.7 to 1 (historic)
Examples of buildings in the CM2 zone in the Alphabet Historic District
 Example on left is a newer building approved through Historic Resource Review, prior to newer regulations that
applied a maximum FAR of 2.5 to 1 in historic districts that became effective in May 2018. This building is larger
than currently allowed.
 Example on right is an older, historic building located across the street, which is larger than the newer building.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 21
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.130.212 Floor Area and Height Bonus Options
A. [ No change]
B. General floor area and height bonus option regulations.
1. Unless specified below, the bonus options in this section are allowed only in the CM1,
CM2, CM3, and CE zones, and in the CX zone outside the Central City and Gateway plan
districts. Sites located within Historic or Conservation districts are not eligible to use bonus
options. Sites where a Historic or Conservation Landmark or a contributing structure in a
Historic or Conservation District has been demolished within the past ten years are not
eligible to use bonus options unless the landmark or contributing structure was destroyed
by fire or other causes beyond the control of the owner, the only structure on the site that
was demolished was an accessory structure, or the demolition was approved through
demolition review.
2. [No change]
3. [No change]
4. [No change]
5. [No change]
C. Inclusionary housing bonus. [No change]
D. Affordable commercial space bonus. [No change]
E. Planned Development bonus. Proposals that provide a combination of affordable housing, a
publicly accessible plaza or park, and energy efficient buildings may increase maximum height
and FAR as stated in Table 130-3 if approved through a Planned Development Review and
Design Review (see Chapter 33.270 and Chapter 33.854). The site must be at least two acres in
size to be eligible for this bonus. Sites located within Historic or Conservation districts are not
eligible to use this bonus.

Commentary

Page 22 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.130.215 Setbacks
Amendments to this section are updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 23
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments

33.130.215 Setbacks
A. [No change]
B. Minimum building setbacks. Minimum required building setbacks are listed below and
summarized in Table 130-2. Unless otherwise specified in this section, the minimum required
setbacks apply to all buildings and structures on a site. Setbacks for exterior development are
stated in 33.130.245, and setbacks for parking areas are stated in Chapter 33.266, Parking,
Loading and Transportation and Parking Demand Management.
1. Required setbacks from a street lot line. Unless as specified below, there is no minimum
required setback from a street lot line:
a. [No change]
b. The following minimum setbacks are required from a street lot line on the portion of
the site that is across a local service street from an RF through RM2R1 or RMP zone.
The setbacks do not apply in the CR or CM1 zones, or on or within 100 feet of a
transit street:
(1) Buildings that are entirely in a residential use, and portions of buildings with
dwelling units on the ground floor, must be setback 5 feet from a street lot line
facing an RF through RM2R1 or RMP zone. The setback must be landscaped to
at least the L1 standard. Vehicle access is not allowed through the setback
unless the local service street facing the residential zone is the only frontage for
the site. Up to one third of the setback area can be hard surfaced for pedestrian
or bicycle access. Exterior display and storage is not allowed within the setback.
(2) All other buildings must be setback 10 feet from a street lot line facing an RF
through RM2R1 or RMP zone. The setback must be landscaped to at least the L1
standard. Vehicle access is not allowed through the setback unless the local
service street facing the residential zone is the only frontage for the site. Up to
one third of the setback area can be hard surfaced for pedestrian or bicycle
access. Exterior display and storage is not allowed within the setback. See Figure
130-2.
c.-d. [No change]

Commentary

Page 24 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.130.215 Setbacks
Inner Pattern Area along Civic and Neighborhood Corridors.  This new exception allows for zero
setbacks between commercial/mixed use and multi-dwelling zone properties located along Civic and
Neighborhood corridors.  This allowance only applies in the Inner Pattern Area, which has an
established pattern of zero side setbacks between buildings along traditional main streets.
Corridors in the Inner Pattern Area, such as SE Division and SE Belmont, often include an
interspersed mix of commercial and multi-dwelling zoning.  The intent of this exception is to allow
for a continuous frontage of buildings along Civic and Neighborhood corridors, which are intended
by Comprehensive Plan polices to be transit- and pedestrian-oriented urban places.  Related setback
exceptions in Chapter 33.120 allow for no setbacks between multi-dwelling zone properties on these
same corridors (see pages 89-90 in Volume 2).  Locations abutting RM1 zoning are not included in
this setback exception because this lower-scale zone is intended to continue characteristics of
single-dwelling neighborhoods.

Allowances in the Inner Pattern Area allow for zero setbacks between properties with
commercial/mixed use and multi-dwelling zoning along Civic and Neighborhood corridors in order to
allow for a more continuous frontage of buildings along these important corridors, which are
typically well served by transit and commercial services.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 25
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
2. Required setbacks from a lot line that is not a street lot line:
a. There is no minimum setback required from a lot line that abuts an OS, RX, C, E or CI
zone. And, no setback is required from an internal lot line that is also a zoning line on
sites with split zoning.
b. Except as follows, Tthe required minimum setback from a lot line that abuts an RF
through RM4RH, RMP or IR zone is 10 feet. The required setback area must be
landscaped to the L3 standard. Areas paved for pedestrian or bicycle use can be
located in the required building setback area, but may not extend closer than 5 feet
to a lot line abutting an RF through RM4RH or RMP zone.
(1) In the Inner Pattern Area on sites that abut a Civic or Neighborhood Corridor
shown on Map 130-3 no setback is required from a lot line that abuts a property
in the RM2-RM4 zones that also has a lot line on a Civic or Neighborhood
Corridor.
(2) Buildings that are 15 feet or less in height are exempt from the required
setback.
(3) For both exceptions, however any setback provided that is 5 feet or greater in
depth must be landscaped to at least the L3 standard for a distance of up to 10
feet from the lot line. This means that if the building is setback 3 feet, no
landscaping is required, but if the building is setback 15 feet, then the first 10
feet measured from the lot line must be landscaped.
c. [No change]
3. Extensions into required building setbacks and buffering requirements of Table 130-2.
a. The following features of a building may extend into a required building setback up
to 20 percent of the depth of the setback. However, except for building eaves and
stormwater planters, they may not extend closer than 5 feet to a lot line abutting an
RF – RM4RH or RMP zoned lot.
(1) Eaves, chimneys, fireplace inserts and vents, mechanical equipment, fire
escapes, water collection cisterns and stormwater planters;
(2) Stairways and wheelchair ramps that do not meet the standard of Subparagraph
B.3.b below; and

Commentary

Page 26 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.130.215 Setbacks
Amendments to this page are updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 27
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
(3) Bays and bay windows may extend into a street setback, but not a required
setback abutting an RF – RM4RH or RMP zoned lot, and also must meet the
following requirements:
 Each bay and bay window may be up to 12 feet long, but the total area of all
bays and bay windows on a building facade cannot be more than 30 percent
of the area of the facade;
 At least 30 percent of the area of the bay which faces the street lot line
requiring the setback must be glazing or glass block;
 Bays and bay windows must cantilever beyond the foundation of the
building; and
 The bay may not include any doors.
b. The following minor features of a building are allowed to fully extend into required
building setbacks, but may not extend closer than 5 feet to a lot line abutting an RF –
RM4RH or RMP zoned lot.
(1) Uncovered decks, stairways, and wheelchair ramps with surfaces that are no
more than 2-1/2 feet above the ground;
(2) On lots that slope down from the street, vehicular and pedestrian entry bridges
with surfaces that are no more than 2-1/2 feet above the average sidewalk
elevation; and
(3) Canopies, marquees, awnings, and similar features may fully extend into a
street setback.
c. [No change]
4. [No change]
C.-E. [No change]

Commentary

Page 28 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.130.222 Building Length and Facade Articulation
This section is being amended to include updated language from the corresponding section in
Chapter 33.120 (33.120.230.C – see page 107 of Volume 2).  The amendments provide greater
regulatory clarity.
Figure 130-9 is being replaced to provide greater clarity.  The 20-foot dimension in the
accompanying text is intended to be measured from the street property line, but the graphic shows
the measurement starting at the building façade, which appears to be set back from the street.
The corrected graphic shows both the façade and the street lot line at the same location.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 29
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.130.222 Building Length and Facade Articulation
A. [No change]
B. [No change]
C. Facade articulation.
1. Where the standard applies. This standard applies in the CM2, CM3 and CE zones as
follows:
a.  [No change]
b.  [No change]
c. Portions of building facades that are vertically separated by a gap of at least 10 feet
in width or more extending at least 20 feet in depth from the street property line are
considered to be separate facades areas for the purposes of the facade area
measurements. See Figure 130-9.
2.  The standard. At least 25 percent of the area of a street-facing facade within 20 feet of a
street lot line must be divided into facade planes that are off-set by at least 2 feet in depth
from the rest of the facade. Facade area used to meet the facade articulation standard
may be recessed behind or project out from the primary facade plane, but projections into
street right-of-way do not count toward meeting this standard. See Figure 130-10.
Figure 130-9
Facade Articulation

Commentary

Page 30 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.130.225 Landscaped Areas

The raised landscaped areas option is being amended to not allow large trees (such as Beech, London
Plane, Red Oak, and Douglas Fir trees) to be used to meet the L1 tree planting requirements,
consistent with a similar proposed regulation in Chapter 33.120.  Such trees are usually too large to
thrive in raised planting areas with 30 inches of soil depth.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 31
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.130.225 Landscaped Areas
A. [No change]
B. Minimum landscaped area. The minimum amount of required landscaped area is stated in
Table 130-2. Any required landscaping, such as for required setbacks or parking lots, applies
towards meeting the minimum amount of required landscaped area. Sites developed with a
house, attached house or duplex are exempt from the required minimum landscaped area
standard. The required landscape area must meet one of the following:
1. [No change]
2. Urban green alternative landscaped area. In the CM2 and CM3 zones in the Inner pattern
area shown on Map 130-2, one or more of the following may be used to meet the
required landscape area:
a.-b. [No change]
c. Raised landscaped areas. Landscaped areas raised above ground level may be used to
meet the minimum landscaped area standard when landscaped to at least the L1
standard and soil depth is a minimum of 30 inches. Large trees are not allowed in
raised landscaped area used to meet this alternative.
d. [No change]

Commentary

Page 32 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.130.228 Required Outdoor Areas
This section is being amended to be consistent with similar Required Outdoor Areas purpose
statement language and regulatory standards proposed for Chapter 33.120 (see pages 121-123 in
Volume 2), which will apply to similar types of multi-dwelling development.  Specific amendments
include:
 The minimum dimension for outdoor common areas, such as courtyards, is being changed to
20 feet.  This brings consistency with the new minimum common area dimension in Chapter
33.120 (see page 123 in Volume 2).  The minimum 20-foot dimension helps ensure that
common outdoor areas are of usable size.  The 15-foot minimum dimension had sometimes
resulted in corridors of 5-foot wide walkways flanked on each side by 5 feet of landscaping,
rather than providing for courtyards or other types of usable outdoor space.
 Updates to the multi-dwelling zone names (RM4 replaces RH).

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 33
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.130.228 Required Outdoor Areas
A. Purpose. The required outdoor areas standards ensure opportunities for residents to have on-
site access to outdoor space for recreation, relaxation, natural area, or growing food. Required
outdoor areas are an important aspect for addressing the livability of a property with
residential units by providing residents with opportunities for outdoor activities, some options
for outdoor privacy, and a healthy environment. The standards ensure that outdoor areas are
located so that residents have convenient access. These standards also allow for outdoor area
requirements to be met by indoor community facilities thatbecause they provide opportunities
for recreation or gathering.
B. Requirements.
1. [No change]
2. Size, location and configuration. Required outdoor area may be provided as individual,
private outdoor areas, such as patios or balconies, or as common, shared areas, such as
outdoor courtyards and play areas, or indoor recreational facilities or community rooms.
There also may be a combination of individual and common areas.
a. Individual unit outdoor areas. Where a separate outdoor area is provided for eachan
individual unit, it must be designed so that a 4-foot by 6-foot dimension will fit
entirely within it. The outdoor area must be directly accessible to the unit. Balconies
that extend over street right-of-way count towards meeting this standard. Areas
used for pedestrian circulation to more than one dwelling unit do not count towards
meeting the required outdoor area. If the area is at ground level it may extend up to
5 feet into a required front setback, and may extend into required side and rear
setbacks as long as the area is not closer than 5 feet to a lot line abutting an RF
through RM4RH zoned lot.
b. Common areas. There are two types of common area:
(1) Outdoor common area. Where outdoor areas are common, shared areas, each
area must be designed so that it is at least 500 square feet in area and must
measure at least 20 feet in all directionsso that a 20-foot by 20-foot square will
fit entirely within it. The outdoor common area must be located within 20 feet
of a building entrance providing access to residential units.
(2) Indoor common area. Where an indoor common area is provided, it must be an
indoor recreational facility or an indoor tenant community room. Indoor
common areas that are not recreational facilities or community rooms, such as
lobbies, hallways, laundry facilities, storage rooms, and vehicle or bicycle
facilities, cannot be used to meet this requirement.
c. [No change]
3.-4. [No change]

Commentary

Page 34 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.130.230 Windows
This section is being amended to subject attached duplexes, triplexes, and fourplexes to the same
set of development standards that apply to other types of small-scale housing, consistent with
proposed amendments to Chapter 33.120 and with Residential Infill Project proposals.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 35
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.130.230 Windows
A. [No change]
B. Ground floor windows.
1. [No change]
2. Ground floor window standard for wall area that is not the wall of a dwelling unit.  The
following standards apply to the portions of a ground floor wall of a street-facing facade
that is not the wall of a dwelling unit:
a. [No change]
b. Exemptions:
(1) Houses, attached houses, manufactured homes, and duplexes, attached
duplexes, triplexes, and fourplexes are exempt from this Section; and
(2) Ground floor street-facing walls of dwelling units must meet the standards in
Subsection D; and
(3) One opening for vehicular access to onsite parking area.
3.-5. [No change]

Commentary

Page 36 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.130.240 Pedestrian Standards
This section is being amended to provide consistency with proposed Pedestrian Standards in
Chapter 33.120 (see pages 128-129 in Volume 2).  The amendments in both chapters are intended to
ensure that residential buildings located close to streets each have direct pedestrian connections
to the street.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 37
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.130.240 Pedestrian Standards
A. Purpose. The pedestrian standards encourage a safe, attractive, and usable pedestrian
circulation system in all developments. They ensure a direct pedestrian connection between
abutting streets and buildings on the site, and between buildings and other activities within the
site. In addition, they provide for connections between adjacent sites, where feasible.
B. The standards. The standards of this Section apply to all development except houses, attached
houses, and duplexes. An on-site pedestrian circulation system must be provided. The system
must meet all standards of this Subsection.
1. Connections. The on-site pedestrian circulation system must provide connections as
specified below:
a. Connection between streets and entrances.
(1) Sites with one street frontage.
 Generally. There must be a connection between one main entrance of each
building on the site and the adjacent street. The connection may not be
more than 20 feet longer or 120 percent of the straight line distance,
whichever is less. Buildings separated from the street by other buildings are
exempt from this standard.
 Household Living. Sites where all of the floor area is in Household Living
uses are only required to provide a connection to one main entrance on the
site. If a building is located within 40 feet of a street lot line, and all of the
floor area in the building is in a Household Living use, then there must be at
least one connection between one main entrance and the adjacent street.
The connection may not be more than 20 feet longer or 120 percent of the
straight line distance, whichever is less.
 Tree preservation. If a tree that is at least 12 inches in diameter is proposed
for preservation, and the location of the tree or its root protection zone
would prevent the standard of this paragraph from being met, the
connection may be up to 200 percent of the straight line distance.
(2) Sites with more than one street frontage. Where the site has more than one
street frontage, the following must be met:
 The standard of Subparagraph B.1.a(1) must be met to connect the main
entrance of each building on the site to the closest sidewalk or roadway if
there are no sidewalks. Sites where all of the floor area is in Household
Living uses are only required to provide a connection meeting the standard
of Subparagraph B.1.a(1) to one main entrance on the site;
 An additional connection, which does not have to be a straight line
connection, is required between each of the other streets and a pedestrian
entrance. However, if at least 50 percent of a street facing facade is within
10 feet of the street, no connection is required to
that street.
b. [No change]
2.-3.  [No change]

Commentary

Page 38 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.130.242 Transit Street Main Entrance
This section is being amended for the following purposes:
 To assign attached duplexes, triplexes, and fourplexes the same development standards
that apply to other small-scale housing types, consistent with proposed amendments to
Chapter 33.120 and with Residential Infill Project proposals.
 Modify the courtyard entrance option for multi-dwelling structures to be consistent with
proposed standards in Chapter 33.120 (see pages 110-111 in Volume 2), which were based on
analysis of the design of historic courtyard housing precedents, where courtyard entrances
are typically accessed through courtyards extending more than 50 feet from the street.
 Change the title of subparagraph B.2 to refer to “small housing types,” instead of listing all
seven housing types in the title.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 39
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.130.242 Transit Street Main Entrance
A.-B. [No change]
B. Applicability.
1. [No change]
2. Small housing types. Houses, attached houses, manufactured homes, and duplexes.
Houses, attached houses, manufactured homes, and duplexes, attached duplexes,
triplexes, and fourplexes must meet the standards of 33.130.250.B, Residential Main
Entrance, instead of the requirements of this section.
C. Location. For portions of a building within the maximum building setback, at least one main
entrance for each nonresidential tenant space on the ground floor, and one main entrance to a
multi-dwelling structure must meet the standards of this section. The ground floor is the lowest
floor of the building that is within four feet of the adjacent transit street grade. The main
entrance must:
1. Be within 25 feet of the transit street;
2. Allow pedestrians to both enter and exit the building; and
3. Meet one of the following:
a. Face the transit street;
b. Be at an angle of up to 45 degrees from the transit street, measured from the street
property line, as shown in Figure 130-13; or
c. If it is an entrance to a multi-dwelling structure:
(1) Face a courtyard at least 15 feet in width that is adjacent toabuts the transit
street and that is landscaped to at least the L1 level, or hard-surfaced for use by
pedestrians; and
(2) Be within 5060 feet of the transit street.
D. Distance between entrances. For portions of a building subject to the maximum building
setback, a minimum of one entrance is required for every 200 feet of building length.
E. Unlocked during regular business hours. Each main entrance to nonresidential uses that meets
the standards of Subsection C and D must be unlocked during regular
business hours.

Commentary

Page 40 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.130.250 General Requirements for Houses, Attached Houses, Manufactured Homes, and
Duplexes, and Triplexes
This section is being amended for the following purposes:
 To assign attached duplexes, triplexes, and fourplexes the same development standards
that apply to other small-scale housing types, consistent with proposed amendments to
Chapter 33.120 and with Residential Infill Project proposals.
 To bring consistency with how front garages for attached houses are proposed to be
regulated in the multi-dwelling zones (see pages 170-173 in Volume 2).  This will apply the 50
percent limitation on front garages based on the combined frontage of attached houses,
similarly to how this limitation is based on the total building façade width of other housing
types.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 41
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.130.250 General Requirements for Small Housing Types Houses, Attached Houses,
Manufactured Homes, and Duplexes
A. [No change]
B. Residential main entrance.
1. [No change]
2. Where these standards apply.
a. The standards of this subsection apply to houses, attached houses, manufactured
homes, and duplexes, attached duplexes, triplexes, and fourplexes in the
commercial/mixed use zones.
b. Where a proposal is for an alteration or addition to existing development, the
standards of this section apply only to the portion being altered or added.
c. On sites with frontage on both a private street and a public street, the standards
apply to the site frontage on the public street. On all other sites with more than one
street lot line, the applicant may choose on which frontage to meet the standards.
d. Development on flag lots or on lots which slope up or down from the street with an
average slope of 20 percent or more are exempt from these standards.
3.-4. [No change]
C. Garages.
1. [No change]
2. Where these standards apply. The requirements of Paragraphs D.3, D.4 and D.5, below,
apply to houses, attached houses, manufactured homes, and duplexes, attached duplexes,
triplexes, and fourplexes. The requirements of Paragraphs D.4 and D.5, below, also apply
to garages that are accessory to attached houses. When a proposal is for an alteration or
addition to existing development, the standards of this section apply only to the portion
being altered or added. Development on flag lots or on lots which slope up or down from
the street with an average slope of 20 percent or more are exempt from these standards.
3. Length of street-facing garage wall. The length of the garage wall facing the street may be
up to 50 percent of the length of the street-facing building facade. See Figure 130-16. For
attached houses and attached duplexes, the standard applies to the combined length of
the street-facing facades of the attached units.
a. The length of the garage wall facing the street may be up to 50 percent of the length
of the street-facing building facade. See Figure 130-16. For duplexes, this standard
applies to the total length of the street-facing facades. For all other lots and
structures, the standards apply to the street-facing facade of each unit.
b. Where the street-facing facade is less than 22 feet long, an attached garage facing
the street is not allowed as part of that facade.
4.-5. [No change]

Commentary

Page 42 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.130.265 Detached Accessory Structures
Amendments to this section are updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 43
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.130.265 Detached Accessory Structures
A.-B. [No change]
C. Setbacks.
1. Uncovered accessory structures. Uncovered accessory structures such as flag poles, lamp
posts, signs, antennas and dishes, mechanical equipment, uncovered decks, play
structures, and tennis courts are allowed in a required setback, but can be no closer than
5 feet to a lot line abutting an RF through RM4RH zoned lot.
2. [No change]

Commentary

Page 44 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
Pattern Areas
Map 130-2

The Pattern Areas map is being amended to make corrections to the pattern area boundaries.  The
most significant change is that the Central City Pattern Area boundaries are being amended to
correspond to the Central City Plan District boundaries.  The previous version of the Pattern Areas
map was based on draft boundaries for the Central City Plan District that were not adopted (it
included small portions of Lower Albina, Kerns, and a small area near the Clinton light rail station
that had been considered for inclusion in the Central City Plan District, but were not ultimately
included). Other changes include corrections to pattern area boundaries, mostly to avoid situations
in which boundaries cut across properties and to more accurately reflect existing urban patterns.
The revised boundaries use streets and property lines as boundaries and take into account block
patterns and topography.  The Pattern Areas map boundaries affect building coverage and
landscaping standards, which vary by pattern area.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 45
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments

Commentary

Page 46 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
Pattern Areas
Map 130-2

This is the existing Pattern Areas map that is being replaced (see previous commentary).

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 47
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments

Commentary

Page 48 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
Civic and Neighborhood Corridors
Map 130-3

This new map shows the Civic and Neighborhood corridors, along which no setbacks are required
from properties with RM2, RM3, or RM4 zoning that also abut these corridors (see 33.130.215.B.2.b
on pages 24-25). The intent of this allowance, which only applies along corridors in the Inner
Pattern Area (see previous pages) is to allow for a continuous urban street edge in both mixed use
and multi-dwelling zones along these important corridors.
These Civic Corridors and Neighborhood corridors are streets classified on the Street Design
Classification maps of the Transportation System Plan (TSP) as Civic or Neighborhood main streets
and Civic or Neighborhood corridors (see also the new Street Type definition in Chapter 33.910).
The TSP maps can be consulted to determine the location of properties in relationship to these
corridors at a greater level of detail.

Civic and Neighborhood corridors are indicated in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan as places intended
to be locations for commercial activity and residential living, with transit-supportive densities of
housing and employment.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 49
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments

 Map 130-3

Commentary

Page 50 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.140 Employment and Industrial Zones
Amendments to the sections on this page are for the following purposes:
 To assign attached duplexes, triplexes, and fourplexes the same development standards
that apply to other small-scale housing types, consistent with proposed amendments to
Chapter 33.120 and with Residential Infill Project proposals.
 Modification of the Residential main entrance standards so that they apply to each
structure, consistent with Chapters 33.120 and 33.130.  This allows for configurations in
which duplexes, triplexes, and fourplexes may be served by a single front entrance, instead
of separate entrances for each unit, but would still require attached houses to have
individual street-oriented entrances (each attached house unit is considered to be an
individual structure).
 Change the title of subparagraph B.2 to refer to “small housing types,” instead of listing all
seven housing types in the title.
 Deletion of the reference to Permit Ready Houses (Chapter 33.278), since this regulation
no longer exists.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 51
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.140 Employment and Industrial Zones
140

33.140.242 Transit Street Main Entrance
A. [No change]
B. Applicability.
1. [No change]
2. Small housing types. Houses, attached houses, manufactured homes, and duplexes.
Houses, attached houses, manufactured homes, and duplexes, attached duplexes,
triplexes, and fourplexes must meet the standards of subsection 33.140.265.D, Residential
Main Entrance, instead of the requirements of this section.
C.-D. [No change]
33.140.265 Residential Development
When allowed, residential development is subject to the following development standards:
A. Generally. Except as specified in this section, base zone development standards continue to
apply;
B. Existing buildings. Residential uses in existing buildings have no density limit within
the building;
C. New development. Residential uses in new development are subject to the development
standards of the EX zone, except as specified in this section;
D. Permit-Ready houses. Chapter 33.278 contains provisions for Permit-Ready houses on narrow
lots.
DE. Residential main entrance.
1. [No change]
2. Where these standards apply.
a. The standards of this subsection apply to houses, attached houses, manufactured
homes, and duplexes, attached duplexes, triplexes, and fourplexes in the
employment and industrial zones.
b.-d. [No change]
3. Location. At least one main entrance for each structure dwelling unit must:
a. Be within 8 feet of the longest street-facing wall of the structuredwelling unit; and
b. [No change]
4. [No change]

Commentary

Page 52 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.140 Employment and Industrial Zones
Amendments to the sections on this page are for the following purposes:
 To assign attached duplexes, triplexes, and fourplexes the same development standards
that apply to other small-scale housing types, consistent with proposed amendments to
Chapter 33.120 and with Residential Infill Project proposals.
 Length of street-facing garage wall - this paragraph is being amended to be consistent with
similar regulations in Chapter 33.120 and 33.130.  Currently exempt from this regulation,
attached houses will be subject to the 50% limitation on front garages that applies in other
base zone chapters.  For all types of housing, the 50% limitation will be calculated based on
the total length of the street-facing building façade, or, in the case of attached houses,
the combined length of the facades of the attached units.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 53
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
EF. Street-facing facades.
1. [No change]
2. Where this standard applies. The standard of this subsection applies to houses, attached
houses, manufactured homes, and duplexes, attached duplexes, triplexes, and fourplexes
in the Employment and Industrial zones. Where a proposal is for an alteration or addition
to existing development, the applicant may choose to apply the standard either to the
portion being altered or added, or to the entire street-facing facade. Development on flag
lots or on lots that slope up or down from the street with an average slope of 20 percent
or more are exempt from this standard.
3. [No change]
FG. Garages.
1. [No change]
2. Where these standards apply. The requirements of Paragraphs F.3 and F.4, below, apply
to houses, attached houses, manufactured homes, and duplexes, attached duplexes,
triplexes, and fourplexes. The requirements of Paragraph F.4, below, also apply to garages
that are accessory to attached houses. When a proposal is for an alteration or addition to
existing development, the standards of this section apply only to the portion being altered
or added. Development on flag lots or on lots which slope up or down from the street with
an average slope of 20 percent or more are exempt from these standards.
3. Length of street-facing garage wall. The length of the garage wall facing the street may be up
to 50 percent of the length of the street-facing building facade. See Figure 140-9. For attached
houses and attached duplexes, the standard applies to the combined length of the street-
facing facades of the attached units.
a. Generally. The length of the garage wall facing the street may be up to 50 percent of
the length of the street-facing building facade. See Figure 140-9. On corner lots, only
one street-facing garage wall must meet this standard.
b. Exception. Where the street-facing facade of the building is less than 24 feet long,
the garage wall facing the street may be up to 12 feet long if there is one of the
following. See Figure 140-10.
(1) Interior living area above the garage. The living area must be set back no more
than 4 feet from the street-facing garage wall, or
(2) A covered balcony above the garage that is:
At least the same length as the street-facing garage wall;
At least 6 feet deep; and
Accessible from the interior living area of the dwelling unit.
4 [No change]

Commentary

Page 54 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.150 Campus Institutional Zones
Amendments to this page are updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 55
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.150 Campus Institutional Zones
150
33.150.210 Height
A.-B. [No change]
C. Reduced maximum height. Maximum height is reduced adjacent to certain zones.
1. In the CI1 zone, maximum height is reduced as follows.
a. On the portion of the site within 60 feet of a lot line abutting or across the street
from a site zoned OS or RF through R2.5, the maximum height is 30 feet. See Figure
150-1.
b.  On the portion of the site within 40 feet of a lot line abutting or across the street
from a site zoned RM1R3 through RMP or commercial/mixed use zones the
maximum height is 45 feet. See Figure 150-2.
2.  CI2 zone.
a.  [No change]
b.  Maximum height is reduced on sites in the CI2 zone that abut or are across the street
from a site zoned RM1R3 through RMP, or commercial/mixed use zones as follows:
(1)  On the portion of the site within 40 feet of a lot line abutting or across the
street from a site zoned RM1R2 through RMP, or commercial/mixed use zones,
the maximum height is 45 feet. See Figure 150-2.
(2)  On the portion of the site more than 40 feet but within 110 feet of a lot line
abutting or across the street from a site zoned RM1R2 through RMP, or
commercial/mixed use zones, the maximum height is 75 feet. See Figure 150-2.
D. [No change]
Figure 150-2

RM1-RMP Zones

Commentary

Page 56 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.150 Campus Institutional Zones
Amendments to Table 150-2 are updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 57
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments

Table 150-2
Summary of Development Standards in Campus Institutional Zones

Standard

CI1

CI2

IR
Maximum FAR [1]
(see 33.150.205)

0.5 to 1

3 to 1 [2] [3]

2 to 1
Maximum FAR with Inclusionary Housing Bonus [1]
(see 33.150.205.C)
NA 3.75 to 1 [2]
[3]
NA
Maximum Height
(see 33.150.210)

75 ft. [4]

150 ft. [4]

75 ft.
Minimum Building Setbacks [1]
(see 33.150.215)

- Lot line abutting or across the street from an OS, RF-R2.5 zoned lot
15 ft.

10 ft.
1 ft. for
every 2 ft.
of building
height but
not less
than 10 ft.
- Lot line abutting or across the street from an R2RM1-RMP, IR zoned
lot

10 ft.

10 ft.
- Lot line abutting or across the street from a C, CI, E, or I zoned lot
0 ft.

0 ft.
Maximum Building Setbacks Street Lot Line, Transit Street or
Pedestrian District (See 33.150.215)

None

10 ft.

10 ft.
Maximum Building Coverage [1]
(see 33.150.225)
50% of site
area
85% of site
area
70% of site
area
Maximum Building Length [1]
(see 33.150.235 and 33.150.255)

200 ft.

200 ft.

None
Minimum Landscaped Area
(see 33.150.240)
25% of site
area
15% of site
area
20% of site
area
Landscaping Abutting an R zoned lot
(see 33.150.240.C)

10 ft. @ L3

5 ft. @ L3

10 ft. @L3
Landscaping across the street from an R zoned lot
(see 33.150.240.C)

10 ft. @ L1

5 ft. @ L1

10 ft. @L1
Building Facade Articulation [1]
(see 33.150.255)

No

Yes

No
Ground Floor Window Standards [1]
(see 33.150.250)

No

Yes

Yes
Transit Street Main Entrance [1]
(See 33.150.265)

No

Yes

No
Notes:
[1] For Colleges and Medical Centers, the entire CI zone is treated as one site regardless of ownership. In this case,
FAR is calculated based on the total square footage of the parcels within the zone rather than for each individual
parcel, and setbacks, building length, facade articulation, ground floor windows and transit street main entrance
regulations are measured from, or only apply to, the perimeter of the zone.
[2] Maximum FAR within the Legacy Good Samaritan Hospital and Health Center campus boundary shown on Map
150-3 is 3.7 to 1, and is 4.5 to 1 with inclusionary housing bonus.
[3] Maximum FAR within the PCC Sylvania campus boundary shown on Map 150-5 is .75 to 1 and is 1 to 1 with
inclusionary housing bonus.
[4] Heights reduced on sites that are across the street from or adjacent to certain zones. See 33.150.210.C.

Commentary

Page 58 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.150.250 Ground Floor Windows in the CI2 Zone
33.150.265 Transit Street Main Entrance
The sections on this page are being amended for the following purposes:
 To assign attached duplexes, triplexes, and fourplexes to the same set of development
standards that apply to other types of small-scale housing, consistent with proposed
amendments to Chapter 33.120 and with Residential Infill Project proposals.
 Provide a corrected reference to the relevant residential main entrance standards in
Chapter 33.130.
 Provide consistency with the same courtyard-oriented entrance option for multi-dwelling
structures proposed for Chapters 33.120 and 33.130.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 59
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.150.250 Ground Floor Windows in the CI2 Zone.
A.- [No change]
B. Ground floor window standard. The following standards apply in the CI2 zone:
1. [No change]
2. Exemptions:
a. Houses, attached houses, manufactured homes, and duplexes, and triplexes are
exempt from this Section;
b.-c. [No change]
C.-E [No change]
33.150.265 Transit Street Main Entrance
A.- [No change]
B. Applicability.
1. [No change]
2. Small housing types. Houses, attached houses, manufactured homes, and duplexes.
Houses, attached houses, manufactured homes, and duplexes, attached duplexes,
triplexes, and fourplexes must meet the standards of 33.130.250.CB, Residential Main
Entrance, instead of the requirements of this section.
C. Location. For portions of a building within the maximum building setback, at least one main
entrance for each nonresidential tenant space on the ground floor, and one main entrance to a
multi-dwelling structure must meet the standards of this section. The ground floor is the lowest
floor of the building that is within four feet of the adjacent transit street grade. The main
entrance must:
1.-2. [No change]
3. Meet one of the following:
a.-b. [No change]
c. If it is an entrance to a multi-dwelling structure:
(1) Face a shared courtyard at least 15 feet in width that is connected to abuts the
transit street by a 6 foot wide pathway and that is landscaped to at least the L1
level, or hard-surfaced for use by pedestrians; and
(2) Be within 5060 feet of the transit street.
D.-E. [No change]

Commentary

Page 60 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.218 Community Design Standards
Amendments to this page are updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 61
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.218 Community Design Standards
218

Sections:
General
33.218.010 Purpose
33.218.015 Procedure
Standards
33.218.100 Standards for Primary and Attached Accessory Structures in Single-Dwelling Zones
33.218.110 Standards for Primary and Attached Accessory Structures in R3, R2, R1RM1, RM2, and
RMP Zones
33.218.120 Standards for Detached Accessory Structures in Single-Dwelling, R3, R2, R1RM1, RM2
and RMP Zones
33.218.130 Standards for Exterior Alterations of Residential Structures in Single-Dwelling, R3, R2,
R1RM1, RM2, and RMP Zones
33.218.140 Standards for All Structures in RHRM3, RM4, RX, C, CI, and E Zones
33.218.150 Standards for All Structures in I Zones

33.218.110 Standards for Primary and Attached Accessory Structures in R3, R2, and R1RM1, RM2
and RMP Zones
The standards of this section apply to development of new primary and attached accessory structures in
the R3, R2, R1RM1, RM2 and RMP zones. The addition of an attached accessory structure to a primary
structure on a site where all the uses are residential, is subject to Section 33.218.130, Standards for
Exterior Alteration of Residential Structures in Single-Dwelling, RM1, RM2, and RMPResidential Zones.
The standards of this section can also apply to development of new structures in the RHRM3, RM4, RX, C
and E zones on sites where all the uses are residential. In this case, the applicant can choose to meet all
the standards in this section or all the standards in Section 33.218.140, Standards for all Structures in
the RHRM3, RM4, RX, C and E Zones.
A.-B. [No change]
C. Residential buffer. Where a site zoned R1, RH,RM2, RM3, RM4, RX, C, or E abuts or is across a
street from an RF through R2RM1 or RMP zone, the following is required. Proposals in the
Hollywood and Kenton, and Sandy plan districts, the Main Street Corridor Overlay Zone, and
the Main Street Node Overlay Zone are exempt from this standard:
1. On sites that abut an RF through RM1R2 or RMP zone the following must be met:
a. In the portion of the site within 25 feet of the lower density residential zone, the
building height limits are those of the adjacent residential zone; and
b. A 10 foot deep area landscaped to at least the L3 standard must be provided along
any lot line that abuts the lower density residential zone.

Commentary

Page 62 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.218 Community Design Standards
Amendments to this page are updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 63
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
2. On sites across the street from an RF through RM1R2 or RMP zone the following must be
met:
a. On the portion of the site within 15 feet of the intervening street, the height limits
are those of the lower density residential zone across the street; and
b. If the site is across a local service street from an RF through RM1R2 or RMP zone, a 5-
foot deep area landscaped to at least the L2 standard must be provided along the
property line across the local service street from the lower density residential zone.
Vehicle access is not allowed through the landscaped area unless the site has
frontage only on that local service street. Pedestrian and bicycle access is allowed,
but may not be more than 6 feet wide.
D. Building height. Except as provided in Subsection C, above, structures in the RHRM3, RM4, RX,
and E zones may be up to 55 feet in height.
E.-R. [No change]
33.218.120 Standards for Detached Accessory Structures in Single-Dwelling,
R3, R2, R1RM1, RM2 and RMP Zones.
The standards of this section are applicable to development of new detached accessory structures in
single dwelling, R3, R2, R1RM1, RM2 and RMP zones.
A.-J. [No change]
33.218.130 Standards for Exterior Alteration of Residential Structures in Single-Dwelling, R3, R2,
and R1RM1, RM2 and RMP Zones
The standards of this section apply to exterior alterations of primary structures and both attached and
detached accessory structures in residential zones. These standards apply to proposals where there will
be only residential uses on the site.
The standards of this section can also apply to exterior alterations in the RHRM3, RM4, RX, C and E
zones on sites where all the uses are residential. In this case, the applicant can choose to meet all the
standards in this section or all the standards in Section 33.218.140, Standards for all Structures in the
RHRM3, RM4, RX, C and E Zones.
A.-G. [No change]

Commentary

Page 64 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.218 Community Design Standards
Amendments to this page are updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 65
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.218.140 Standards for All Structures in the RHRM3, RM4, RX, C, CI, and E Zones
The standards of this section apply to development of all structures in RHRM3, RM4, RX, C, CI, and E
zones. These standards also apply to exterior alterations in these zones.
Applicants for development of new structures on sites where the uses are all residential can choose to
meet all the standards of this section or all the standards of Section 33.218.110. Applicants for exterior
alterations on sites where the uses are all residential can choose to meet all the standards of this section
or all the standards of Section 33.218.130.
A.-C. [No change]
D. Residential buffer. Where a site zoned RHRM3, RM4, RX, CI, or E abuts or is across a street
from an RF through R2RM1 zone, the following is required. Proposals in the Hollywood,
Kenton, and Sandy Boulevard plan districts are exempt from this standard:
1. On sites that abut an RF through RM1R2 zone the following must be met:
a. In the portion of the site within 25 feet of the lower density residential zone, the
building height limits are those of the adjacent residential zone; and
b. A 10-foot deep area landscaped to at least the L3 standard must be provided along
any lot line that abuts the lower density residential zone.
2. On sites across the street from an RF through RM1R2 zone the following must be met:
a. On the portion of the site within 15 feet of the intervening street, the height limits
are those of the lower density residential zone across the street; and
b. If the site is across a local service street from an RF through RM1R2 zone, a 5-foot
deep area landscaped to at least the L2 standard must be provided along the
property line across the local service street from the lower density residential zone.
Vehicle access is not allowed through the landscaped area unless the site has
frontage only on that local service street. Pedestrian and bicycle access is allowed,
but may not be more than 6 feet wide.
E. Building height.
1. Maximum height in RHRM3, RM4, RX, CI, C, and E zones.
a. Generally. Structures in the RHRM3, RM4, RX, CI, C, and E zones may be up to 55 feet
in height where allowed by the base zone;
b. Where a site zoned RHRM3, RM4, RX or E abuts or is across a street from an RF
through RM1R2 zone, the maximum height is reduced as specified in Subsection D,
above;
c. New and replacement antennas are exempt from this standard if the antennas are
located on an existing monopole, and the antennas do not project above the height
of the monopole.
2. Minimum height. In C and E zones, primary buildings must be at least 16 feet
in height.

Commentary

Page 66 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.218 Community Design Standards
Amendments to this page include:
 Updates to the multi-dwelling zone names, and
 In Paragraph M, a corrected reference to the relevant ground floor window standards in
Chapter 33.130.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 67
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
F. [No change]
G. Vehicle areas.
1. Access to vehicle areas and adjacent residential zones. Access to vehicle areas must be at
least 20 feet from any adjacent residential zone.
2. Parking lot coverage. No more than 50 percent of the site may be used for
vehicle areas.
3. Vehicle area screening. Where vehicle areas are across a local service street from an R1,
RH,RM2, RM3, RM4, or RX zone, there must be a 6 foot wide landscaped area along the
street lot line that meets the L3 standard of Chapter 33.248, Landscaping and Screening.
Vehicle areas across a local service street from an RF through RM1R2 zone are subject to
the standards of Subsection D., Residential Buffer, above.
H.-L. [No change]
M. Ground floor windows. Street-facing elevations must meet the Ground Floor Windows
Sstandards of the C zone33.130.230.B, Ground floor windows. As an alternative to providing
ground floor windows, proposals in E zones may provide public art if the following conditions
are met:
1. The area of the ground level wall that is covered by the art must be equal to the area of
window that would have been required;
2. The artist and the specific work or works of art must be approved by the Portland Regional
Arts and Cultural Council; and
3. The art must be composed of permanent materials permanently affixed to the building.
Acceptable permanent materials include metal, glass, stone and
fired ceramics.
N.-Q. [No change]

Commentary

Page 68 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.229 Elderly and Disabled High Density Housing
Amendments to this page are updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 69
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.229 Elderly and Disabled High Density Housing
229

33.229.010 Purpose
These regulations provide opportunities to integrate housing for elderly and disabled citizens with other
types of housing, and to increase the ability of the elderly and disabled to live independently and close
to where services are generally available. The regulations allow increased density with special design
and development standards in RM1R3 through RM4RH, C, IR, and EX zones. The regulations are
intended only for new developments and projects that involve major remodeling.
33.229.020 Density Increase and Development Standards
A. RM1, RM2,R3, R2, R1, RMP, and IR zones. In the RM1, RM2,R3, R2, R1, RMP, and IR zones,
there is no limit on density if all of the following are met:
1. The project complies with the development standards of the base zone, except for density
and minimum parking requirements;
2. The project complies with the standards of this chapter; and
3. The lot is at least 10,000 square feet in area.
B. RM3, RM4,RH and EX zones. In the RM3, RM4,RH and EX zones, the project can develop to an
FAR of 4 to 1 if all of the following are met:
1. The project complies with the development standards of the base zone, except for density
and minimum parking requirements;
2. The project complies with the standards of this chapter; and
3. The lot is at least 10,000 square feet in area.
C. [No change]

Commentary

Page 70 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.239 Group Living
Amendments to this page are for the following purposes:
1. Updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.
2. In paragraph C, elimination of the RH (new RM3 and RM4) zone from the exemption from
outdoor area requirements, in correspondence with the application of outdoor area
requirements to these zones in Chapter 33.120 (see pages 118-121 in Volume 2).
3. In paragraph C, the minimum combined outdoor area dimension is being changed to 20 feet.
This brings consistency with the new minimum common area dimension in Chapter 33.120
(see page 123 in Volume 2).  The minimum 20-foot dimension helps ensure that common
outdoor areas are of usable size.  The 15-foot minimum dimension had sometimes resulted in
corridors of 5-foot wide walkways flanked on each side by 5 feet of landscaping, rather
than providing for courtyards or other types of usable outdoor space.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 71
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.239 Group Living
239

33.239.030 Development Standards
The development standards of the base zone, overlay zone or plan district apply unless superseded by
the standards below.
A. Resident Density.
1.-2. [No change]
3. Density standard. Group Living uses are limited to the following number of residents per
square foot of site area:

Zone Number of Residents
RF through R5 zones 1.5 residents per 1,000 square feet
R3 and R2.5 zones 2 residents per 1,000 square feet
RM1R2 zone 2.5 residents per 1,000 square feet
RM2R1 zone 3 residents per 1,000 square feet
RM3, RM4,RH, RX, IR, CI2, C, and
E zones
Not limited (must comply with the building or
housing code, and the FAR of the base zone)

B. [No change]
C. Required outdoor area. The requirement for outdoor areas applies in all residential zones
except RH and RX. Larger areas may be required as part of a conditional use review. The
outdoor area requirement is 48 square feet for every 3 residents, with a minimum dimension of
6 feet by 6 feet. Individual outdoor areas may be combined. The minimum size of a combined
area is 500 square feet and must measure at least 20 feet in all directionsthe minimum
dimension is 15 by 15 feet.
D. [No change]

Commentary

Page 72 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.251 Manufactured Homes and Manufactured Dwelling Parks
Amendments to this page are updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 73
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.251 Manufactured Homes and Manufactured Dwelling Parks
251

33.251.030 Manufactured Dwelling Park Regulations
A.-B. [No change]
C. Zones allowed. Manufactured dwelling parks are allowed only in the R3, R2,RM1 and RMP
zones. An exception is Historic Districts and Conservation Districts, where they are prohibited.
D.-J. [No change]
K. Nonconforming manufactured dwelling parks. Existing manufactured dwelling parks may be
subject to the regulations of Chapter 33.258, Nonconforming Uses and Development. Listed
below are situations where the manufactured dwelling park is given nonconforming status.
1.-2. [No change]
3. Existing manufactured dwelling parks in the R2, R3,RM1 and RMP zones may have
nonconforming densities and/or development depending on individual situations.

Commentary

Page 74 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.270 Planned Development
33.270.100.D and E. (Triplexes and Fourplexes)
This amendment identifies triplexes and fourplexes as being allowed housing types through a
Planned Development because triplexes and fourplexes will be stand-alone housing types—they were
previously covered under the definition of multi-dwelling structure.  Triplexes and Fourplexes, as
relatively small residential structures, will share regulatory approaches with other small residential
structures, such as duplexes and attached houses, instead of being considered multi-dwelling
structures.  The housing type multi-dwelling structures will now be defined as buildings with five or
more dwelling units.

33.270.100.L (New dwelling units)
A new paragraph L is being added to the listing on this page to reflect the addition in Chapter
33.120 of an option for proposals that do not meet the Minimum Required Site Frontage for
Development standard, which calls for a minimum street frontage of 90 feet in mapped locations in
Eastern Portland, to be approved through Planned Development Review (see page 53 in Volume 2).
Other amendments on this page relate to the new multi-dwelling zone names, and in paragraph M,
shifting the lower-scale multi-dwelling zones from the subparagraph for zones regulated by unit
density to the subparagraph for zones regulated by floor area.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 75
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.270 Planned Development 270
33.270.100 Additional Allowed Uses and Development
In addition to the housing types and uses allowed by other chapters of this Title, the following uses and
development may be requested through Planned Development Review. More than one of these
elements may be requested:
A.  Attached houses. Attached houses may be requested in the RF through R5 zones;
B.  Duplexes. Duplexes may be requested in the RF through R2.5 zones;
C.  Attached duplexes. Attached duplexes may be requested in the RF through R2.5 zones;
D. Triplexes. Triplexes may be requested in the RF through R2.5 zones;
E. Fourplexes. Fourplexes may be requested in the RF through R2.5 zones;
FD.  Multi-dwelling structures. Multi-dwelling structures may be requested in the RF through R2.5
zones;
GE.  Multi-dwelling development. Proposals to allow multi-dwelling development on a lot may be
requested in RF through R2.5 zones;
HF.  Modification of site-related development standards. Modification of site-related development
standards that are not prohibited from being adjusted may be requested through a Planned
Development.
IG.  Alternative residential dimensions. Proposals for lots that do not meet the minimum lot area,
minimum lot width, minimum lot depth, or minimum front lot line standards may be requested
in RF through R2.5 zones. Proposals for lots that do not meet the minimum lot size dimensions
may be requested in the RHRM1 through RM4R3 zones.
JH.  Commercial uses. Commercial uses that are allowed in the CM1 zone may be requested in the
RF through RM2R1 zones;
KI. Additional height and FAR. For sites in the CM2, CM3, CE, and CX zones outside of the Central
City and Gateway plan districts that are greater than 2 acres in size, additional height and FAR
may be requested through a Planned Development as specified in 33.130.212.E, Planned
Development Bonus, and Table 130-3;
L. New dwelling units. New dwelling units may be requested on lots that are zoned multi-
dwelling and are less than 90 feet wide;
MJ. Transfer of development within a site. Transfer of development rights across zoning lines
within the site may be proposed as follows:
1. RF through R2.5R1 zones. If the site is located in more than one zone, and all the zones are
RF through R2.5R1, the total number of units allowed on the site is calculated by adding
up the number of units allowed by each zone. The dwelling units may be placed without
regard to zone boundaries.
2. RH andRM1 through RX zones. If the site is located in more than one zone, and the zones
are RH andRM1 through RX, the total amount of floor area allowed on the site is
calculated by adding up the amount of floor area allowed by each zone. The floor area
may be placed without regard to zone boundaries.

Commentary

Page 76 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.270 Planned Development
Amendments to this page reflect the shift in regulating development intensity in the RM1 (former
R3 and R2) and RM2 (former R1) zones from unit density to FAR.  The references to the range of
zones that regulate in terms of numbers of dwelling units is being amended to end at the R2.5 zone
to reflect this change.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 77
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
3. C, E, I, CI, and IR zones. If the site is located in more than one zone, and all the zones are C,
E, I, CI, and IR zones, the total amount of floor area allowed on the site is calculated by
adding up the amount of floor area allowed by each zone. The floor area may be placed
without regard to zone boundaries.
4. All zones. If the site is located in more than one zone, and at least one of the zones is RF
through R2.5R1, and at least one of the zones is RH,RM1 through RX, C, or EX, then the
total number of dwelling units allowed on the site is calculated as follows:
a. The number of units allowed on the RF through R2.5R1 portion of the site is
calculated in terms of dwelling units;
b. The number of units allowed on the other portion of the site is calculated in terms of
floor area; The floor area calculation is converted to dwelling units at the rate of 1
dwelling unit per 1,000 square feet of floor area;
c. The two dwelling unit numbers are added together, and may be placed without
regard to zone boundaries.
NM. Transfer of development between sites. Sites that are eligible to transfer development rights
to another site are designated in other chapters of this Title. Where such transfers require a
Planned Developmentoccur, both the sending and receiving sites must be part of a Planned
Development.

Commentary

Page 78 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.285 Short Term Housing and Mass Shelters
Amendments to this page are updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 79
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.285 Short Term Housing and Mass Shelters
285

33.285.040 Use Regulations
A. Short term housing.
1. R and IR zones. New short term housing, an expansion of net building area, or an increase
in the number of occupants in existing short term housing in R and IR zones is subject to
the following regulations:
a. Allowed use. New short term housing and alterations to existing short term housing
is allowed if it meets one of the following:
(1) Short term housing for up to 15 beds is an allowed use in the RM1R3 – RMP and
IR zones if it is provided on the site of an existing Institutional Use and meets
the standards of 33.285.050.
(2) [No change]
b. [No change]
2.-4. [No change]
B. Mass shelters.
1. [No change]
2. R3, R2, R1,RM1, RM2, RMP and IR zones. Applicants for a new mass shelter or expansion
of net building area or increase in the number of occupants in an existing mass shelter in
R3, R2, R1,RM1, RM2, RMP and IR zones may choose to be an allowed use or a conditional
use, as stated below.
a.-b. [No change]
3. RM3, RM4,RH and RX zones. Applicants for a new mass shelter or expansion of net
building area or increase in the number of occupants in an existing mass shelter in RM3,
RM4,RH and RX zones may choose to be an allowed use or a conditional use, as stated
below.
a.-b. [No change]
4.-7. [No change]

Commentary

Page 80 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.285 Short Term Housing and Mass Shelters
Amendments to Table 285-1 are updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 81
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments

Table 285-1
Maximum Number of Shelter Beds for Mass Shelters

Zone of Site Maximum
Number of Shelter Beds
EX, CX, CM3, and CE 200
CM2 and CI2 75
CR, CM1, and CI1 25
RX, RM3, and RM4 and RH 50
RM1, RM2R3-R1, RMP, IR [1] 15
Notes:
[1] The mass shelter must be operated on the site of an existing Institutional Use.

Commentary

Page 82 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.296 Temporary Activities
Amendments to this page are updates to the multi-dwelling zone names and allow farmer’s markets
as temporary activities in all the new multi-dwelling zones.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 83
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.296 Temporary Activities
296

33.296.030 Temporary Activities Allowed
A. Residential sales offices. Sales offices for major subdivisions or planned unit developments are
allowed in the IR, CI2, and RF through RM4RH and RMP zones. Sales offices are allowed at the
development site until all lots or houses are sold or for 10 years after the final plat is approved,
whichever is less. Use of the sales office for sites outside of the project
is prohibited.
B. Show of model homes. The viewing of model homes within a subdivision for a fee is allowed in
the IR, CI2, and RF through RM4RH and RMP zones for a period not to exceed one month. Only
one showing is allowed per phase of a subdivision.
C. Incidental Sales. Incidental sales of items are allowed based on the zone in which the site is
located:
1.  Garage sales. Garage sales and other sales of items from the site may occur in the IR, CI1,
and RF through RM4RH and RMP zones for no more than 3 consecutive days on 2 different
occasions during a calendar year. The sale of products brought to the site for the sale is
not allowed.
2.-3. [No change]
4. Seasonal outdoor sales.
a. [No change]
b. In the IR, CI1, and RF through RM4RH and RMP zones, Sseasonal outdoor sales of
plants and produce are allowed twice a year for up to 5 consecutive weeks each
time.
D. Farmers Markets. Farmers Markets are allowed on a site with an institutional use, and on sites
in the IR, RM1-RM4, RMP,R1, RH, RX, C, E, I, CI, and OS zones as follows:
1.-4. [No change]
E. Fairs, carnivals, and other major public gatherings.
1. In the CI1 and RF through RM4RH and RMP zones, fairs, carnivals and other major public
gatherings are allowed for up to 9 consecutive days at a site with an existing institutional
use. The 9 days does not include up to 5 total days to set up and breakdown the event.
Two events are allowed per calendar year.
2.-4. [No change]

Commentary

Page 84 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.296 Temporary Activities
Amendments to this page are updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 85
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
F. Construction activities
1. Use of existing house or manufactured dwelling. In the IR, CI1, and RF through RM4RH and
RMP zones, an existing house or a manufactured dwelling may be used temporarily for a
residence while a permanent residence is being constructed. The existing house or
manufactured dwelling may remain on the site until the completion of the construction,
or for not more than 2 years, whichever time period is less. The existing house or
manufactured dwelling must be removed within 1 month after approval of final occupancy
for the new residence. A performance bond or other surety must be posted in
conformance with 33.700.050, Performance Guarantees, to ensure removal of the existing
house or manufactured dwelling.
2.-4. [No change]
G.-I. [No change]

Commentary

Page 86 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
Chapter 33.415
Centers Main Street Overlay Zone
The only amendment to this chapter involves minor changes to the Map 415-1 (Pattern Areas), see
below.

Pattern Areas
Map 415-1

The Pattern Areas map is being amended to make corrections to the pattern area boundaries.  The
most significant change is that the Central City Pattern Area boundaries are being amended to
correspond to the Central City Plan District boundaries.  The previous version of the Pattern Areas
map was based on draft boundaries for the Central City Plan District that were not adopted (it
included small portions of Lower Albina, Kerns, and a small area near the Clinton light rail station
that had been considered for inclusion in the Central City Plan District, but were not ultimately
included). Other changes include corrections to pattern area boundaries, mostly to avoid situations
in which boundaries cut across properties and to more accurately reflect existing urban patterns.
The revised boundaries use streets and property lines as boundaries and take into account block
patterns and topography.  In this overlay zone, the Pattern Areas map boundaries affect standards
for minimum floor area ratios and maximum building setbacks.
Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 87
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.415 Centers Main Street Overlay Zone

Commentary

Page 88 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
Pattern Areas
Map 415-1

This is the existing Pattern Areas map that is being replaced (see previous commentary).

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 89
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments

Commentary

Page 90 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.420 Design Overlay Zone
Amendments to this page reflect the following:
 Discontinuation of the Albina Community plan district design review provisions (see pages
108-117 of this volume).
 Updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 91
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.420 Design Overlay Zone
420

33.420.041 When Design Review is Required
Unless exempted by Section 33.420.045, Exempt From Design Review, design review is required for the
following:
A.-G [No change]
H. Proposals using one of the provisions of the a, Alternative Design Density Overlay Zone,
specified in Sections 33.405.040 through .080;
I. Proposals in the Albina Community plan district using the provisions of Section 33.505.220,
Parking Requirement Reduction, or Section 33.505.230, Attached Residential Infill on Vacant
Lots in R5-Zoned Areas;
IJ. Floating structures, except individual houseboats; and
JK. In the Marquam Hill plan district, proposals to develop or improve formal open area required
by Chapter 33.555. This includes designating existing open areas as formal
open areas.

33.420.045 Exempt From Design Review
The following items are exempt from design review:
A.-B. [No change]
D. Alterations to residential structures in RF through RM2R1 zones, where the alterations are
valued at $10,000 or less;
E.-DD. [No change]

Commentary

Page 92 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.420.055 When Community Design Standards May Be Used
33.420.060 When Community Design Standards May Not Be Used
Amendments to this page reflect the following:
 Discontinuation of the Albina Community plan district design review provisions (see pages
108-117 of this volume).
 Because of the above and the fact that projects using a-overlay provisions are subject to
separate regulations in Chapter 33.405, this section is being simplified to reflect the fact
that it will only apply in the design overlay zone.
 Updates to the multi-dwelling zone names in Table 420-1.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 93
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.420.055 When Community Design Standards May Be Used
The Community Design Standards provide an alternative process to design review for some proposals.
For some proposals, the applicant may choose to go through the design review process set out in
Chapter 33.825, Design Review, or to meet the objective standards of Chapter 33.218, Community
Design Standards. The standards for signs are stated in Title 32, Signs and related Regulations. Proposals
that do not meet the Community Design Standards — or where the applicant prefers more flexibility —
must go through the design review process.
Unless excluded by 33.420.060, When Community Design Standards May Not Be Used, below, proposals that
are within the maximum limits of Table 420-1meet all of the requirements of this section may use the
Community Design Standards as an alternative to design review.
A. Location. The proposal is in:
1. A Design Overlay Zone;
2. The Albina Community plan district shown on Map 505-1; or
3. An Alternative Design Density Overlay Zone and a Design Overlay Zone, and the proposal
is not taking advantage of the provisions of Chapter 33.405, Alternative Design Density
Overlay Zone. Proposals taking advantage of the provisions of Chapter 33.405 are
regulated by Section 33.405.090.
B. Maximum limits. The proposal is within the maximum limits of Table 420-1.

Table 420-1
Maximum Limits for Use of the Community Design Standards [1]
Zones Maximum Limit—New Floor Area
RM2, RM3, RM4R1, RH, RX,
C, E, & CI Zones
20,000 sq. ft. of floor area
I Zones 40,000 sq. ft. of floor area
IR Zone See institution's Impact Mitigation Plan or Conditional Use Master Plan.
Zones Maximum Limit—Exterior Alterations
All except IR • For street facing facades less than 3,000 square feet, alterations affecting
less than 1,500 square feet of the façade.
• For street facing facades 3,000 square feet and larger, alterations
affecting less than 50% of the facade area.
IR Zone See institution's Impact Mitigation Plan or Conditional Use Master Plan.
Notes:
[1] There are no maximum limits for proposals where any of the floor area is in residential use.

33.420.060 When Community Design Standards May Not Be Used
The Community Design Standards may not be used as an alternative to design review as follows:
A.-E. [No change]
F. For non-residential development in the RF through RM2R1 zones;
G.-J. [No change}

Commentary

Page 94 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.445 Historic Resource Overlay Zone
Amendments to this page reflect discontinuation of the Albina Community plan district design
review provisions (see pages 108-117 of this volume).

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 95
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.445 Historic Resource Overlay Zone
445

33.445.140 Alterations to a Historic Landmark
Alterations to a Historic Landmark require historic resource review to ensure the landmark’s historic
value is considered prior to or during the development process.
A. When historic resource review for a Historic Landmark is required. Unless exempted by
Subsection B, below, the following proposals are subject to historic resource review. Some
modifications to site-related development standards may be reviewed as part of the historic
resource review process; see Section 33.445.050:
1.-3. [No change]
4. Alteration of an interior space when that interior space is designated as a Historic
Landmark; and
5. Proposals using any of the provisions of the a, Alternative Design Density Overlay Zone,
specified in Sections 33.405.040 through .080; and.
6. Proposals in the Albina Community plan district using the provisions of Section
33.505.220, Parking Requirement Reduction, or Section 33.505.230, Attached Residential
Infill on Vacant Lots in R5-Zoned Areas.
B. [No change]
33.445.230 Alterations to a Conservation Landmark
Alterations to Conservation Landmarks require historic resource review to ensure the landmark’s
historic value is considered prior to or during the development process.
A. When historic resource review for a Conservation Landmark is required. Unless exempted by
Subsection B, below, the following proposals are subject to historic resource review. Some may
be eligible to use the Community Design Standards as an alternative; see Section 33.445.710:
1.-3. [No change]
4. Alteration of an interior space when that interior space is designated as a Conservation
Landmark; and
5. Proposals using one of the provisions of the a, Alternative Design Density Overlay Zone,
specified in Sections 33.405.040 through .080; and.
6. Proposals in the Albina Community plan district using the provisions of Section
33.505.220, Parking Requirement Reduction, or Section 33.505.230, Attached Residential
Infill on Vacant Lots in R5-Zoned Areas.
B. [No change]

Commentary

Page 96 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.445.320 Development and Alterations in a Historic District
Amendments to this page reflect the following:
 Discontinuation of the Albina Community plan district design review provisions (see pages
108-117 of this volume).
 Updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 97
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.445.320 Development and Alterations in a Historic District
Building a new structure or altering an existing structure in a Historic District requires historic resource
review to ensure the resource’s historic value is considered prior to or during the development process.
A. When historic resource review is required in a Historic District. Unless exempted by
Subsection B, below, the following proposals in a Historic District are subject to historic
resource review:
1.-3. [No change]
4. Nonstandard improvements in the public right-of-way, such as street lights, street
furniture, planters, public art, sidewalk and street paving materials, and landscaping.
Nonstandard improvements in the public right-of-way must receive approval from the City
Engineer prior to applying for historic resource review; and
5. Proposals using one of the provisions of the a, Alternative Design Density Overlay Zone,
specified in Sections 33.405.040 through .080; and.
6. Proposals in the Albina Community plan district using the provisions of Section
33.505.220, Parking Requirement Reduction, or Section 33.505.230, Attached Residential
Infill on Vacant Lots in R5-Zoned Areas.
B. Exempt from historic resource review.
1.-9. [No change]
10. Vents. On all residential structures in the RF through RM2R1 zones and residential
structures with up to three dwelling units in other zones, vents that meet all
of the following:
a.-b. [No change]
11.-22. [No change]

Commentary

Page 98 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.445.420 Development and Alterations in a Conservation District
Amendments to this page reflect the following:
 Discontinuation of the Albina Community plan district design review provisions (see pages
108-117 of this volume).
 Updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 99
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.445.420 Development and Alterations in a Conservation District
Building a new structure or altering an existing structure in a Conservation District requires historic
resource review to ensure the resource’s historic value is considered prior to or during the development
process.
A. When historic resource review is required in a Conservation District. Unless exempted by
Subsection B., below, the following proposals in a Conservation District are subject to historic
resource review. Some may be eligible to use the Community Design Standards as an
alternative; see Section 33.445.710:
1.-3 [No change]
4. Nonstandard improvements in the public right-of-way, such as street lights, street
furniture, planters, public art, sidewalk and street paving materials, and landscaping.
Nonstandard improvements in the public right-of-way must receive approval from the City
Engineer prior to applying for historic resource review; and
5. Proposals using one of the provisions of the a, Alternative Design Density Overlay Zone,
specified in Sections 33.405.040 through .080; and.
6. Proposals in the Albina Community plan district using the provisions of Section
33.505.220, Parking Requirement Reduction, or Section 33.505.230, Attached Residential
Infill on Vacant Lots in R5-Zoned Areas.
B. Exempt from historic resource review.
1.-9. [No change]
10. Vents. On all residential structures in the RF through RM2R1 zones and residential
structures with up to three dwelling units in other zones, vents that meet all
of the following:
a.-b. [No change]
11.-22. [No change]

Commentary

Page 100 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.445.610 Historic Preservation Incentives
Amendments to this page reflect the following:
 Updated reference to Chapter 33.120 transfer of FAR regulations.
 Updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 101
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.445.610 Historic Preservation Incentives
A.-B. [No change]
C. Incentives. The following incentives are allowed if the requirements of Subsection D, Covenant,
are met. The incentives are:
1. Transfer of density and floor area ratio (FAR). Transfer of density from a landmark to
another location is allowed in multi-dwelling, commercial/mixed use, and employment
zones. In multi-dwelling zones, the transfer is regulated by Subsection 33.120.205.E210.D,
Transfer of DensityFAR. In commercial and employment zones, the transfer of FAR is
regulated by Subsections 33.130.205.C and 33.140.205.C.
2-7. [No change]
8. Nonresidential uses in the RM1, RM2, RM3 and RM4RH, R1 and R2 zones. In the RM1,
RM2, RM3 and RM4RH, R1 and R2 zones, up to 100 percent of the net building area of a
structure may be approved for Retail Sales And Service, Office, or Manufacturing And
Production as follows:
a.-b. [No change]
9. [No change]
D. [No change]

Commentary

Page 102 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.445.710 When Community Design Standards May Be Used
33.445.720 When Community Design Standards May Not Be Used
Amendments to this page reflect the following:
 Updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.
 Discontinuation of the a-overlay zone bonus provisions that provided options for additional
density for projects in the multi-dwelling zones approved through design review (see pages
206-213 in Volume 2).

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 103
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.445.710 When Community Design Standards May Be Used.
Unless excluded by Section 33.445.720, When Community Design Standards May Not Be Used,
proposals that meet all of the requirements of this section may use the Community Design Standards as
an alternative to historic resource review.
A. [No change]
B. Maximum limits. The proposal is within the maximum limits of Table 445-1.

Table 445-1
Maximum Limits for Use of the Community Design Standards
Zones Maximum Limit—New Dwelling Units or Floor Area
Single Dwelling Zones 5 dwelling units
RM1 ZoneR2 & R3 Zones 10 dwelling units
RM2, RM3, RM4R1, RH, RX,
C, E, & CI Zones
20,000 sq. ft. of floor area
I Zones 40,000 sq. ft. of floor area
IR Zone See institution's Impact Mitigation Plan.
Zones Maximum Limit—Exterior Alterations
All except IR • For street facing facades less than 3,000 square feet, alterations affecting
less than 1,500 square feet of the facade.
• For street facing facades 3,000 square feet and larger, alterations
affecting less than 50% of the facade area.
IR Zone See institution's Impact Mitigation Plan.
33.445.720 When Community Design Standards May Not Be Used.
The Community Design Standards may not be used as an alternative to historic resource review as
follows:
A.-B. [No change]
C. For mixed-use or non-residential development in the RF through RM2R1 zones;
D. If the site is in a Historic District or the proposal is for alteration to a Historic Landmark; and
E. If the proposal uses Section 33.405.050, Bonus Density for Design Review; and
F. For installation of solar panels on a conservation landmark.

Commentary

Page 104 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.470 Portland International Airport Noise Impact Zone
Amendments to this page are updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 105
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.470 Portland International Airport Noise Impact Zone
470

33.470.040 Regulations for Residential Uses
A.-C. [No change]
D. Residential use and density.
1. [No change]
2. Within the 65 DNL noise contour. Where a site is within the 65 DNL noise contour, it is
subject to the following:
a. [No change]
b. Except as provided in paragraph D.3, sites that have a commercial Comprehensive
Plan Map designation are prohibited from developing to a residential density higher
than that of the RM2R1 zone.
3. [No change]

Commentary

Page 106 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.480 Scenic Resource Zone
Amendments to this page are updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 107
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.480 Scenic Resource Zone
480

33.480.040 Development Standards
The development standards of the Scenic Resource zone apply based on the mapping designations
shown in the Scenic Resources Protection Plan. The standards for each subsection below apply only to
areas with that designation in the Plan. The resource is defined as the width of the right-of-way or top of
bank to top of bank for scenic corridors. Setbacks are measured from the outer boundary of the right-of-
way unless specified otherwise in the ESEE Analysis and as shown on the Official Zoning Maps. In some
cases, more than one development standard applies. For example, within a scenic corridor, a view
corridor standard will apply where a specific view has been identified
for protection.
A. [No change]
B. Scenic Corridors. All development and vegetation with a scenic corridor designation in the
Scenic Resources Protection Plan are subject to the regulations of this Subsection.
1. [No change]
2. Standards.
a. Scenic Corridor Setback. A scenic corridor setback per Table 480-1 applies along
street lot lines that abut the Scenic Corridor identified in the Scenic Resources
Protection Plan.

Table 480-1
Scenic Corridor Setback [1]
Zone Minimum Setback from Street Lot Line
IR, CI 1’ per 2’ of building height, not less than 10’
RM2R1 3’
EG1, IH 5’
EG2, IG2 25’
All other base zones 20’
Notes:
[1] Larger minimum setbacks in overlay zone and plan district supersede this setback
b.-h. [No change]

Commentary

Page 108 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.505 Albina Community Plan District
The Albina Community plan district includes pioneering implementation approaches, such as
allowances for ground-floor commercial uses in the RH zone along Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard
and allowances for no off-street parking on small sites, that served as models for regulatory
approaches now proposed to be applied citywide as part of the Better Housing by Design Proposed
Draft amendments.  Because the proposed citywide application of these approaches now makes
these Albina Community plan district regulations redundant, they are proposed to be discontinued.
The only plan district regulation that is being retained is an allowance for attached residential infill
on vacant lots in the R5 zone.
The following summarizes provisions of the Albina Community plan district that are being
discontinued.
 Allowances for limited amounts of ground-floor commercial uses in the RH zone along
Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard (33.505.100).  The BHD Proposed Draft proposes to allow
limited amounts of ground-floor commercial uses in multi-dwelling zone along major corridors
citywide, including along NE Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard (see pages 32-39 of Volume 2).
 Minimum density standard for RH zoning abutting Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard
(33.505.200).  This regulation allows for a minimum density that is lower than the base zone
regulations for the RH zone.  Along Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard, this plan district
regulation allows for a minimum density of 1 unit per 2,000 square feet of site area, which is a
townhouse density that is the same as is allowed in the low-scale R2 zone.  This low-level of
density has not been used by new development along this corridor within the plan district over
the past 10 years, and newer residential development has typically consisted of multi-level
multi-dwelling buildings that reflect the intended development intensities of the RH zone.
Discontinuing this plan district regulation means that development will need to meet the
minimum density requirements of the RM3/RM4 (former RH) zones, which is 1 unit per 1,000
square feet of site area, which sets a higher expectation for housing density that reflects this
boulevard’s status as a Civic Corridor that is intended to be the location for larger buildings and
concentrations of housing.
 Reduced minimum parking requirements (33.505.220).  The plan district allows for small sites
(up to 7,500 square feet) in the R2.5, R2, and R1 zones to not provide off-street parking, in
exchange for going through design review or meeting the community design standards.  This will
be replaced by proposed multi-dwelling zone regulations that exempt projects from needing to
provide off-street parking on small sites (up to 10,000 – see pages 204-205 in Volume 2).  Also,
the Residential Infill Project is proposing to discontinue off-street parking requirements in the
R2.5 and other single-dwelling zones.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 109
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.505 Albina Community Plan District
505

Sections:
General
33.505.010 Purpose
33.505.020 Where These Regulations Apply
Use Regulations
33.505.100 Commercial Uses in the RH Zone
Development Standards
33.505.200 Minimum Density Standards
33.505.220 Parking Requirement Reduction
33.505.230 Attached Houses Residential Infill on Vacant Lots in R5 Zoned Areas
33.505.240 Design Review and Community Design Standards
33.505.245 When Community Design Standards May Be Used
33.505.248 When Community Design Standards May Not Be Used
Map 505-1 Albina Community Plan District
General
33.505.010 Purpose
The Albina Community plan district implements the Albina Community Plan. The plan district’s
provisions are intended to provide additional opportunities for owner-occupied housing that can serve
as less expensive alternatives to lower-density houses and that do not involve demolition of existing
sound housing. ensure that new higher density commercial and industrial developments do not
overwhelm nearby residential areas. Infill housing compatibility and affordability is encouraged by
eliminating off-street parking requirements for small multi-dwelling housing projects. The plan district's
provisions also encourage the development of new housing along Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard by
allowing new housing projects to include ground level commercial uses that orient to King Boulevard.
33.505.020 Where These Regulations Apply
The regulations of this chapter apply to the Albina Community plan district. The boundaries of the plan
district are shown on Map 505-1 at the end of this chapter, and on the Official Zoning Maps.
Use Regulations
33.505.100 Commercial Uses in the RH Zone
A. Purpose. A limited amount and type of commercial uses are allowed in new mixed
commercial/residential projects along Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard. These uses are
permitted in recognition of the Boulevard’s designation as a Major City Traffic Street in the
Transportation Element of the Comprehensive Plan, high traffic counts on King Boulevard, and
the City’s desire to encourage residential development by permitting some commercial space
as part of new residential projects.

Commentary

Page 110 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.505 Albina Community Plan District
See previous commentary.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 111
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
B. Locations and uses permitted. RH zoned sites located on blocks that abut Martin Luther King
Jr. Boulevard may include Retail Sales and Service and Office uses as part of new residential
developments. Other commercial uses are prohibited.
C. Regulations for commercial uses. Commercial development in new mixed
commercial/residential projects is allowed when the following standards are met:
1. The project must include the development of new housing. The floor area for the
commercial uses is not required to be in a new building;
2. Commercial uses are allowed only on the ground floor of a building;
3. Up to 35 percent of the total building’s floor area may be developed for commercial uses.
More than 35 percent is prohibited;
4. Access to parking for mixed commercial/residential development is limited as follows:
a. Access must be from an arterial; or
b. Access must be from a Local Service Traffic Street which is within 150 feet of the
intersection with a street designated as an arterial; and
5. Signs. The sign standards are stated in Title 32, Signs and Related Regulations.
Development Standards
33.505.200 Minimum Density Standards
The minimum density for RH and RX zoned sites on blocks that abut Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard is
one dwelling unit for each 2,000 square feet of site area.
33.505.220 Parking Requirement Reduction
A. Purpose. The reduction of parking requirements is offered to allow development that is more
compatible with Albina’s older neighborhoods than projects built with one or more parking
spaces. New housing developed without parking will also cost less than comparable housing
built with off-street parking. Reducing the cost of housing will help increase affordable housing
within the plan district. Performance of these provisions and any problems associated with
them will be reviewed when this plan district is reviewed for timeliness.
B. Where these regulations apply. The provisions of this section apply in areas zoned R2.5, R2
and R1 that are more than 1500 feet from a transit station, or more than 500 feet from a
transit street with 20-minute peak hour service.
C. Regulations. New residential developments may be built without off-street parking when the
following requirements are met:
1. The lot on which the project is built must be 7,500 square feet or smaller in size;
2. There will be no more than 5 dwelling units on the lot when the project is complete;

Commentary

Page 112 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.505.230 Attached Houses on Vacant Lots in R5 Zoned Areas
This section of the Albina Community Plan District because it provides an allowance that is not made
redundant either by the BHD Proposals or by the Residential Infill Project’s proposals.  It allows
for attached houses to be built on vacant lots in the R5 zone, at the same attached house densities
allowed in the R2.5 zone (allowing for 2 attached houses on a 5,000 square foot lot).  This provides
an option for compact ownership housing that can be less expensive than larger new single-family
houses.  While the Residential Infill Project is proposing to allow duplexes, triplexes, and
fourplexes on lots in the R5 zone, it does not allow for this greater density to be provided by
attached houses on individual lots.  Amendments to this section include:
 Changing “attached residential” to “attached houses” as there is no definition for “attached
residential” in the zoning code.
 Removing design requirements because design issues are addressed by the stricter design
standards that now apply or are proposed in the single-dwelling zones for narrow lots. Also
corresponds to the DOZA proposal to not provide design review for attached houses in the
design overlay zone.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 113
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
3. If there are existing dwelling units on the site with parking the parking provided for the
existing dwellings must not be reduced to less than one space per dwelling unit or the
existing number of spaces, whichever is less; and
4. Design review required.
a. Generally. Proposals taking advantage of the provisions of this section must be
approved through design review or meet the Community Design Standards in
Chapter 33.218, as set out in Section 33.505.240, Design Review and Community
Design Standards, below; and
b. Exception. If the site is a Historic or Conservation Landmark, or in a Historic or
Conservation District, it is subject to the regulations for historic resource review as
set out in Chapter 33.445, Historic Resource Overlay Zone.
33.505.230 Attached Houses Residential Infill on Vacant Lots in R5 Zoned Areas
A. Purpose. The increased density permitted by this section encourages infill development in
areas that are generally well served by existing public services. The increase allows the area to
absorb additional growth without creating market pressure that might lead to the early
removal of existing sound housing. The increased density will lower the cost of housing while
increasing opportunities for owner-occupied housing. Required design review of new
development ensures that the new housing will make a positive contribution to the
neighborhood’s character.
B. Attached housesresidential infill. Attached houses are residential development is allowed in
the R5 zone if all of the following are met. Adjustments to Subparagraphs B.1 through B.4,
below, are prohibited:
1. The proposed attached housing residential development will be on a lot or lot of record
that was created at least five years ago;
2. There has not been a dwelling unit on the lot or lot of record for at least five years;
3. A land division creating an individual lot for each attached housing unit is recorded; and
4. The proposed attached housing residential development meets all development standards
for attached housing residential development in the R2.5 zone.; and
5. Design review required:
a. Generally. Attached residential development must be approved through design
review or meet the Community Design Standards in Chapter 33.218, as set out in
Section 33.505.240, Design Review and Community Design Standards,
below; and
b. Exception. If the site is a Historic or Conservation Landmark, or in a Historic or
Conservation District, it is subject to the regulations for historic resource review as
set out in Chapter 33.445, Historic Resource Overlay Zone.

Commentary

Page 114 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.505 Albina Community Plan District
These sections related to design review and the use of the Community Design Standards are
proposed to be discontinued, since the plan district-specific requirements for design review and the
use of the Community Design Standards are being discontinued.  However, development in the
Albina Community Plan Area located in the design (“d”) overlay zone or in Historic or Conservation
districts will still be subject to requirements for design or historic review, with continued options
for using design standards.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 115
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.505.240 Design Review and Community Design Standards
Design Review ensures that development conserves and enhances the recognized special design values
of a site or area, and promotes the conservation, enhancement, and continued vitality of special areas
of the City. The Community Design Standards in Chapter 33.218 provide an alternative process to design
review for some proposals. Where a proposal is eligible to use the Community Design Standards, the
applicant may choose to go through the discretionary design review process set out in Chapter 33.825,
Design Review, or to meet the objective standards of this chapter. If the proposal meets the Community
Design Standards, no design review is required.
33.505.245 When Community Design Standards May Be Used
The Community Design Standards provide an alternative process to design review for some proposals.
For some proposals, the applicant may choose to go through the design review process set out in
Chapter 33.825, Design Review, or to meet the objective standards of Chapter 33.218, Community
Design Standards. Proposals that do not meet the Community Design Standards—or where the applicant
prefers more flexibility—must go through the Design Review process.
Unless excluded by 33.505.248, When Community Design Standards May Not Be Used, below, proposals
that are within the limits of Table 505-1 may use the Community Design Standards as an alternative to
design review.

Table 505-1
Maximum Limits for Use of the Community Design Standards [1]
Zones Maximum Limit—New Floor Area
R1, RH, RX, C, & E Zones 20,000 sq. ft. of floor area
I Zones 40,000 sq. ft. of floor area
IR Zone See institution's Impact Mitigation Plan.
Zones Maximum Limit—Exterior Alterations
All except IR • For street facing facades less than 3,000 square feet, alterations affecting
less than 1,500 square feet of the facade.
• For street facing facades 3,000 square feet and larger, alterations
affecting less than 50% of the facade area.
IR Zone See institution's Impact Mitigation Plan or Conditional Use Master Plan.
Notes:
[1] There are no maximum limits for proposals where any of the floor area is in residential use.

33.505.248 When Community Design Standards May Not Be Used
The Community Design Standards may not be used as an alternative to design review as follows:
A. For institutional uses in residential zones, unless specifically allowed by an approved Impact
Mitigation Plan or Conditional Use Master Plan;
B. For alterations to sites where there is a nonconforming use, unless the nonconforming use is a
residential use;
C. For non-residential development in the RF through R1 zones; and
D. For historic resources, unless allowed by Chapter 33.445, Historic Resource Protection Overlay
Zone.

Commentary

Page 116 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments

33.505 Albina Community Plan District – Map 505-1
No change to this map.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 117
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments

Commentary

Page 118 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.510 Central City Plan District
Amendments to this page reflect the following:
 Updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 119
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.510 Central City Plan District
 510

33.510.205 Floor Area Bonus and Transfer Options
A. [No change]
B. [No change]
C. Floor area bonus options. Additional development potential in the form of floor area is earned
for a project when the project includes any of the specified features listed below. The bonus
floor area amounts are additions to the maximum floor area ratios shown on Map 510-2.
1. General regulations.
a. [No change]
b. Bonus FAR is only available to sites zoned RM3, RM4, RH, RX, CX, or EX, unless
specifically stated otherwise.
c. [No change]
d. [No change]
e. [No change]
2. [No change]

Commentary

Page 120 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.510 Central City Plan District (continued)
Amendments to this page reflect the following:
 Updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 121
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
D. Floor area transfer options. Transferring floor area from one site to another is allowed as
follows. The transferred floor area is in addition to the maximum floor area ratio shown on
Map 510-2. There is no limit to the amount of floor area that can be transferred to a site.
Transferring floor area is only allowed in situations where stated. Adjustments to the floor area
transfer requirements are prohibited. When FAR is transferred from one site to another, the
sending site must retain an amount equal to the minimum FAR required by 33.510.200.C., or an
amount equal to the total surface parking area on the site multiplied by the maximum floor
area ratio allowed shown on Map 510-2, whichever is more.
1. Transfer of floor area from a Historic Resource. The following regulations apply to
transferring floor area from a Historic Resource:
a. [No change]
b. Sites eligible to send floor area. In order to send floor area the site must meet the
following requirements. Sites that are eligible to send floor area are allowed to
transfer unused FAR up to the maximum FAR allowed on the site plus an additional 3
to 1:
(1) Be in a RM3, RM4, RH, RX, CX, EX, or OS zones, and
(2) [No change]
c. Sites eligible to receive floor area:
(1) Must be zoned RM3, RM4, RH, RX, CX or EX; and
(2) [No change]
d. [No change]
e. Exceptions.
(1) Sites with eligible historic resources in a RM3, RM4, RH, RX, CX or EX zone may
elect to transfer floor area to a receiving site outside of the Central City plan
district if they meet the standards of 33.120.210.D, 33.120.205.G, 33.130.205.C
or 33.140.205.D.
(2) Sites with eligible historic resources in the RM1 and RM2 R1, R2 and R3 zones
may transfer floor area density if they meet the standards of 33.120.210.D
33.120.205.G.
2. [No change]

Commentary

Page 122 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.521 East Corridor Plan District
Amendments to this page reflect the following:
 Updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.
 Clarification to the Entrances section that requirements that each ground-floor tenant
space have a street-oriented entrance applies only to nonresidential tenant spaces, such as
commercial uses, and not to ground-floor residential units (which can be served by a lobby
or other shared entrance).  This language was previously added to other zoning code
chapters (such as those related to transit street main entrances) to provide this
clarification.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 123
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.521 East Corridor Plan District
 521

33.521.250 Entrances
A. [No change]
B. Where these regulations apply. In the RH, R1RM2, RM3, RM4, and C zones, buildings must
meet the standards of Subsection C., below.
C. Entrances. For portions of a building within the maximum building setback, at least one main
entrance for each nonresidential tenant space on the ground floor must meet the standards of
this section. The ground floor is the lowest floor of the building that is within four feet of the
adjacent street grade. Entrances that open into lobbies, reception areas, or common interior
circulation space must also meet the standards of this section. The entrances must:
1.-2 [No change]
33.521.260 Building Design
A. [No change]
B. Applicability. All sites in the RH, R1RM2, RM3, RM4, and C zones where any of the floor area on
the site is in nonresidential uses must meet the standards of Subsection C., below.
C. [No change]

Commentary

Page 124 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.521.300 Additional Standards in the 122nd Avenue Subdistrict
Amendments to this page are intended to achieve the following purposes:
 Update the multi-dwelling zone names.
 Amend the Retail Sales and Service and Office uses allowances to be consistent with the
limited commercial use allowances proposed in the multi-dwelling base zone regulations (see
pages 32-39 in Volume 2). A difference is in this plan district regulation is that it allows
these limited commercial uses broadly within the RH (new RM3 and RM4) zones in the
subdistrict, rather than limiting them to Civic and Neighborhood corridors (to which they
are limited in the multi-dwelling base zone regulations).

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 125
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.521.300 Additional Standards in the 122nd Avenue Subdistrict
A.-C. [No change]
D. Retail Sales And Service and Office uses in the RHRM3 and RM4 zones.
1. Purpose. This regulation provides opportunity for mixed use development in the RHRM3
and RM4 zones by allowing a limited amount of commercial use while ensuring that
development in residential zones is predominately residential in character.
2. Retail Sales And Service and Office uses are allowed in the RHRM3 and RM4 zones if they
meet the following regulations:
a. The total amount of Retail Sales And Service and Office use does not exceed 2,000
square feet of net building area per use up to a total combined floor area ratio of 0.4
to 1. More than than 2,000 square feet per use is prohibited, and more than 0.4 to 1
total on the site is prohibited;
b. All of the gross building area that is in a Retail Sales And Service or Office use is
located on the ground floor within 100 feet of a street lot line; and
c. There are no exterior activities associated with the Retail Sales And Service or Office
use other than for outdoor seating.
a. The uses are allowed in new multi-dwelling developments only. Conversion of
existing structures is prohibited; and
b. The uses are limited to 20 percent of the net building area of the development. More
than 20 percent of the net building area used for Retail Sales And Service or Office is
not allowed.
E.-F [No change]

Commentary

Page 126 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.526 Gateway Plan District
Amendments to this page reflect the following:
 Updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.
 Revisions to the open area requirements to set a minimum dimension of 20 feet.  This brings
consistency with the new minimum common area dimension in Chapter 33.120 (see page 123
in Volume 2).  As currently written, this plan district provision would allow a large required
amount of outdoor area to include a single 20 foot x 20 foot square space, with the rest of
the required open area in the form of narrower spaces that may only be usable as
pedestrian connections.
 Clarification to the Entrances section that requirements that each ground-floor tenant
space have a street-oriented entrance applies only to nonresidential tenant spaces, such as
commercial uses, and not to ground-floor residential units (which can be served by a lobby
or other shared entrance).  This language was previously added to other zoning code
chapters (such as those related to transit street main entrances) to provide this
clarification.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 127
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.526 Gateway Plan District
526

33.526.230 Floor Area and Height Bonus Options
A. [No change]
B. General regulations.
1. Eligible sites. The inclusionary housing and Affordable Housing Fund bonus options may be
used in the R3, R2, R1, RH, RX,multi-dwelling, commercial, EX, and CI2 zones in the
Gateway plan district. The other bonus options may be used only in areas shown on Map
526-5, and on sites with a Gateway Master Plan.
2.-5 [No change]
C.-E. [No change]
33.526.240 Open Area
A.-C. [No change]
D. Additions of floor area to the site. The requirements of this subsection apply to sites where
the proposal will result in an increase of at least 5,000 square feet of floor area on the site. The
applicant may choose from the three options below:
1. On-site option. If the open area will be on-site, the following standards must be met:
a.-d. [No change]
e. Open area may be provided in a variety of sizes, but each open area must be large
enough that a 20-foot x 20-foot square can fit entirely within itmeasure at least 20
feet in all directions.
f. [No change]
2.-3. [No change]
33.526.270 Entrances
A. [No change]
B. Where these regulations apply. In R1, RHRM2, RM3, RM4, RX, C, E, and CI zones, buildings
must meet the standards of Subsection C., below.
C. Entrances. For portions of a building within the maximum building setback, at least one main
entrance for each nonresidential tenant space on the ground floor must meet the standards of
this section. The ground floor is the lowest floor of the building that is within four feet of the
adjacent street grade. Entrances that open into lobbies, reception areas, or common interior
circulation space must also meet the standards of this section. The entrances must:
1.-2. [No change]

Commentary

Page 128 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.532 Hayden Island Plan District
Amendments to the figures on this page are updates to the zone names, reflecting both the new
commercial zone and proposed multi-dwelling zone names. The diagrams have also been amended to
show the proposed 35-foot maximum height of the RM1 zone, instead of the 40-foot height of the
R2 zone.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 129
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.532 Hayden Island Plan District
532
Figure 532-1
Height limits on sites abutting R zones

Figure 532-2
Height limits on sites across a street from R zones

Commentary

Page 130 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.534 Hillsdale Plan District
Amendments to this page are updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 131
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.534 Hillsdale Plan District
534

33.534.210 Setbacks
A. Front building setback in the R1RM2 zone. A setback of at least 10 feet is required in the
R1RM2 zone along streets designated as Local Service Streets in the Transportation Element of
the Comprehensive Plan.
B. Building setback in C zones. Buildings in the commercial/mixed use zones that are entirely 200
feet or more from a street that abuts the site are exempt from the maximum building setback
of the base zone for that street. See Figure 534-1.

Commentary

Page 132 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.536 Hollywood Plan District
Amendments to this page are updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 133
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.536 Hollywood Plan District
536

33.536.230 Transition Between Residential and Commercial/Mixed Use Zones
A.-B. [No change]
C. Maximum building height.
1. Generally. The maximum allowed building height is shown on Map 536-2, Building
Heights, except as specified in Paragraphs C.2 and C.3 below:
2. Sites abutting RF - R1RM2 zones. Sites abutting RF through R1RM2 zones have height
limits that decrease in two steps near the residential zone. See Figure 536-1. These height
limits are:
a. On the portion of a site within 25 feet of a site zoned RF through R1RM2, the
maximum building height is the same as the abutting residential zone.
b. On the portion of a site that is more than 25 feet but within 50 feet of a site zoned RF
through R1RM2, the maximum building height is 45 feet.
3. Sites across a street from RF – RM2R1 zones. Sites across a street from RF through RM2R1
zones have height limits that decrease near the residential zone. On the portion of the site
within 15 feet of the lot line across the street from a site zoned RF though R1RM2, the
maximum building height is the same as the residential zone across the street. See Figure
536-2.
D. [No change]

Commentary

Page 134 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.536 Hollywood Plan District
Amendments to the graphics on this page are updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 135
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
Figure 536-1
Height limits on sites abutting RF - R1RM2 zones

Figure 536-2
Height limits on sites across a street from RF - R1RM2 zones

RM2
RM2
RM2
RM2

Commentary

Page 136 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments

33.536 Hollywood Plan District
Amendments to this page reflect recent zoning changes (undertaken previously as part of the Map
Refinement Project) that rezoned RX zones in the plan district to the RH zone (4 to 1 FAR), which
is now being renamed to RM4.  The proposed amendments assign to the RM4 zone the same
maximum parking amounts that had applied in the RX zone, except for Household Living (see below).
The new RM4 zone allows limited amounts of commercial uses along major corridors, such as NE
Halsey in the plan district.

Table 536-1 is being amended to apply maximum parking ratios to surface parking for Household
Living uses.  This brings consistency with maximum parking ratios proposed for the multi-dwelling
zones in locations close to frequent transit (see page 207 in Volume 2) and that were recently
adopted for the commercial/mixed use zones.  The Hollywood plan district was adopted when there
were no maximum parking requirements for Household Living uses, but the maximum parking ratios
in Table 536-1 were generally intended to not allow as much parking in this transit-rich plan district
as the general citywide standard.
The amendments to the Household Living maximum parking ratios in this table ensure that the plan
district regulations do not allow for more parking than does the general citywide standard, in
accordance with the intent of the plan district regulations.  The maximum parking ratio amendments
provide exemptions for structured parking and for houses, attached houses and duplexes, to
correspond to exemptions provided in Chapter 33.266 (see Table 266-2 on page 207 of Volume 2).

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 137
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.536.290 Maximum Parking Allowed in the RXRM4, CM2, and CM3 zones
A. [No change]
B. Where these regulations apply. These regulations apply to accessory parking in the RXRM4,
CM2, and CM3 zones.
C. [No change]
Table 536-1
Maximum Parking Spaces Allowed in the RXRM4, CM2, and CM3 Zones
Use Categories

Specific Uses Maximum Parking Spaces Allowed
Residential
Household Living,
Group Living
 1.35 per unit for surface parking. No
maximum for structured parking and for
houses, attached houses, and duplexes.
Group Living  No maximum
Commercial
Retail Sales And Service  Retail, personal service, repair
oriented
1 per 250 sq. ft. of net building area
 Restaurants and bars 1 per 75 sq. ft. of net building area
 Health clubs, gyms, lodges,
meeting rooms, and similar.
Continuous entertainment such
as arcades and bowling alleys
1 per 330 sq. ft. of net building area
 Temporary lodging 1 per rentable room; for associated uses
such as restaurants, see above
 Theaters 1 per 4 seats or 1 per 6 feet of bench area
Office General office 1 per 400 sq. ft. of net building area
Medical/Dental office 1 per 330 sq. ft. of net building area
Quick Vehicle Servicing   1 per 500 sq. ft. of net building area
Vehicle Repair  1 per 750 sq. ft. of net building area
Commercial Parking   Not applicable
Self-Service Storage  1 per resident manager’s facility, plus 3
per leasing office, plus 1 per 100 leasable
storage spaces in multi-story buildings.
Commercial Outdoor
Recreation
 20 per acre of site
Major Event
Entertainment
 1 per 8 seats or per CU review
Industrial
Manufacturing And
Production
 1 per 750 sq. ft. of net building area
Warehouse And Freight
Movement
 1 per 750 sq. ft. of net building area for
the first 3,000 sq. ft. of net building area
and then 1 per 3,500 sq. ft. of net building
area thereafter
Wholesale Sales,
Industrial Service,
Railroad Yards
 1 per 750 sq. ft. of net building area
Waste-Related  Per CU review

Commentary

Page 138 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.536 Hollywood Plan District
Amendments to this page reflect recent zoning changes (undertaken previously as part of the Map
Refinement Project) that rezoned RX zones in the plan district to the RH zone (4 to 1 FAR), which
is now being renamed to RM4.  The proposed amendments assign to the RM4 zone the same
maximum parking amounts that had applied in the RX zone, except for Household Living uses (see
previous commentary).  The new RM4 zone allows limited amounts of commercial uses along major
corridors, such as NE Halsey in the plan district.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 139
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments

Table 536-1
Maximum Parking Spaces Allowed in the RXRM4, CM2, and CM3 Zones
Use Categories

Specific Uses Maximum Parking Spaces Allowed
Institutional
Basic Utilities  None
Community Service  1 per 500 sq. ft. of net building area
Parks And Open Areas  Per CU review for active areas
Schools  Grade, elementary, junior high 1 per classroom
 High school 7 per classroom
Medical Centers  1 per 500 sq.ft. of net building area; or per
CU review or Impact Mitigation Plan
approval
Colleges  1 per 600 sq. ft. of net building area
exclusive of dormitories, plus 1 per 4
dorm rooms; or per CU review or Impact
Mitigation Plan approval
Religious Institutions  1 per 100 sq. ft. of main assembly area
Daycare   1 per 500 sq. ft. of net building area
Other
Agriculture  None, or per CU review
Aviation,
Detention Facilities,
Aggregate Extraction
 Per CU review
Radio Frequency
Transmission Facilities
Personal wireless service and
other non-broadcast facilities
None
 Radio or television broadcast 2 per site
Rail Lines & Utility
Corridors
 None

Commentary

Page 140 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.537 Johnson Creek Basin Plan District
Amendments to this page include:
 Updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.
 In the Bonus Density section, replacement of the term “attached residential” with “any
housing type that has at least two units in each structure.”  This responds to the fact that
the zoning code has no definition for “attached residential,” providing no clarity as to the
intended housing type.  The new language would allow a wide variety of housing types with
attached units, including attached houses, multi-dwelling structures, fourplexes, triplexes,
and duplexes.  Such housing allows for more compact site layouts than do detached houses,
helping to minimum stormwater impacts.
 In the Floodplain Standards section, a similar change is being made to allow for a variety of
housing types with attached units, instead of listing every housing type that has more than
one unit in a structure.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 141
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.537 Johnson Creek Basin Plan District
537

33.537.120 Bonus Density
A.-B. [No change]
C. Maximum density. Proposals that meet the requirements of Subsection D, below, may increase
their maximum density by 50 percent. Bonus density may be combined with transfer of
development rights. The maximum increase in density that will be allowed when bonus and
transfer development rights are combined is 100 percent.
D. Requirements. Proposals to use density bonuses must meet the following:
1. Development. Development must be any housing type that has at least two units in each
structure or attached housesresidential and must meet the development standards for
attached residential development in the RM1R2 zones. Adjustments to this paragraph are
prohibited.
2. [No change]
33.537.130 Springwater Corridor Standards
A.-B. [No change]
C. Standards.
1. General standards.
a. [No change]
b. Waste collection and waste storage areas. In R3, R2, R1, RH, RX, IR,multi-dwelling, C,
E, and I, and IR zones, exterior waste collection and waste storage areas must be
screened from the corridor, the screen must be at least five feet deep and meet the
L2 standard of Chapter 33.248, Landscaping and Screening;
c. [No change]
2. [No change]
33.537.150 Floodplain Standards
A.-B. [No change]
C. Housing Types. In R3, R2, and R1 the RM1 and RM2 zones, allowed housing types are limited to
residential structures with at least two units in each structure multi-dwelling structures,
duplexes, and attached housinghouses. A house is allowed on lots of record that cannot
accommodate more than one dwelling unit under the provisions of Section 33.120.205,
Density. Adjustments to this section are prohibited.
D.-E. [No change]

Commentary

Page 142 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.545 Lombard Street Plan District
Amendments to this page are updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 143
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.545 Lombard Street Plan District 545

Sections
General
33.545.010 Purpose
33. 545.020 Where These Regulations Apply
Development Standards
33.545.100 Standards for Community Corner
33.545.110 Additional Regulations in the CM1 Zone
33.545.120 Additional Standards in the RM2R1 Zone
Map 545-1 Lombard Street Plan District
33.545.120 Additional Standards in the RM2R1 Zone
A. [No change]
B. Where these standards apply. The following standards apply to duplexes, attached houses,
and multi-dwelling structures on sites in Subdistrict A shown on Map 545-1 that are zoned
RM2R1.
C. Standards. Adjustments may be requested to these standards; they may not be modified
through design review.
1.-5. [No change]
6. On lots less than 10,000 square feet in the RM2R1 zone, the minimum density is 1 unit per
2,250 square feet of site area. This standard does not apply on corner lots.

Commentary

Page 144 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.561 North Interstate Plan District
The Commercial Uses in the RH Zone code section is proposed to be deleted because it is largely
redundant with proposed allowances for limited amounts of ground-floor commercial uses in multi-
dwelling zones along major corridors, including along Interstate Avenue, where this plan district
regulation applies (see pages 32-39 of Volume 2).  The plan district regulations and the proposed
multi-dwelling base zone regulations vary in detail, but both limit commercial uses to the ground
floor of buildings and they are only allowed in conjunction with residential uses.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 145
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.561 North Interstate Plan District 561

Sections:
General
33.561.010 Purpose
33.561.020 Where These Regulations Apply
Use Regulations
33.561.100 Commercial Uses in the RH Zone
Development Standards
33.561.210 Maximum Building Height
33.561.220 Floor Area Ratios
33.561.230 Transition Between Zones
33.561.240 Minimum Density in the RH Zone
33.561.250 Exterior Display and Storage
33.561.260 Off-Site Impacts of Industrial Uses in the CM3 Zone
33.561.270 Required Building Lines
33.561.280 Active Building Use Areas
33.561.300 Motor Vehicle Access
33.561.310 Compatibility Standards in the R2.5 and RM1R2 Zones
33.561.320 Required Design Review
Map 561-1 North Interstate Plan District
Map 561-2 North Interstate Plan District: Maximum Building Heights
Map 561-3 North Interstate Plan District: Floor Area Ratios
Map 561-4 North Interstate Plan District: Required Building Lines/Active Building Use Areas

Use Regulations
33.561.100 Commercial Uses in the RH Zone
A. Purpose. Allowing a limited amount of commercial uses in the RH zone along Interstate Avenue
improves the economic viability of residential development by allowing mixed-use
development, while ensuring that residential uses remain the dominant use in the zone. It also
provides a more interesting and active ground floor along this busy arterial and provides an
interim use for houses where owners want to add commercial uses to the ground floor.
B. Commercial uses allowed. Commercial uses are allowed in the RH zone on sites that have
frontage on Interstate Avenue, as follows:
1. Only Retail Sales And Service and Office uses are allowed;
2. There must be floor area in Residential use on the site, either existing or proposed for
development concurrent with the commercial floor area;
3. The commercial uses are allowed only on the ground floor of a building; and
4. Up to 35 percent of the total floor area on the site may be developed for commercial uses.
More than 35 percent is prohibited.

Commentary

Page 146 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.561.230 Transition Between Zones
Amendments to the text on this page are updates to the multi-dwelling zone names. Figure 561-1 is
also being amended to show the maximum height 35-foot height of the RM1 zone, instead of the
40-foot height of the R2 zone.
The plan district’s required height limit transitions, which apply when the RH (new RM3) zone is
adjacent to lower-scale multi-dwelling zones (which is not the case with the proposed Chapter
33.120 step down heights) is being continued to respond to the greater building heights allowed in
the plan district compared to the base zone RH (RM3) regulations.  The plan district regulations
provide allowances for maximum building heights of 85 to 100 feet, instead of the maximum building
height of 65 feet that otherwise applies in the RH (RM3) zone.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 147
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.561.230 Transition Between Zones
A. Purpose. These regulations ensure that there is a transition in height when high intensity zones
abut or are across the street from low and medium density residential zones.
B. Where these regulations apply. The regulations of this section apply to sites in RHRM3, RM4,
CX, and CI2 zones that abut or are across a street from an RF through R1RM2 zone
C. Maximum building height.
1. Sites abutting RF- R1RM2 zones. On sites abutting RF- R1RM2 zones, on the portion of the
site within 25 feet of a site zoned RF- R1RM2, the maximum building height is the same as
the abutting residential zone. See Figure 561-1.
2. Sites across a street from RF- R1RM2 zones. On sites across a street from RF- R1RM2
zones, on the portion of the site within 15 feet of the lot line across the street from a site
zoned RF-R1RM2, the maximum building height is the same as the residential zone across
the street. See Figure 561-2.
Figure 561-1
Height limits on sites abutting RF - R1RM2 zones

Commentary

Page 148 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.561 North Interstate Plan District
Amendments to the text on this page are for the following purposes:
 Updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.
 Figure 561-2 is being amended to show the maximum 35-foot height of the RM1 zone,
instead of the 40-foot height of the R2 zone.
 Deletion of the minimum density in the RH zone section.  The RH (new RM3) zoning in the
plan district is located close to the light rail corridor and is intended to be a focus for
higher-density housing.  The plan district provides allowances for an FAR of 4 to 1 and
maximum heights of 85 to 100 feet for this RH zoning, but also allows a low-scale of
development in the RH zone that is equivalent to R2 densities intended for duplexes or
townhouses (1 unit per 2,000 square feet of site area).  With deletion of this plan district
regulation, new development in the RM3 (former RH) zone would need to meet RM3 base
zone minimum density requirements for at least 1 unit per 1,000 square feet of site area (5
units on a 5,000 square foot lot).  This amendment is part of a broader Better Housing by
Design approach intended to strengthen minimum density requirements (see also Volume 2,
pages 70-73 and 202-203).  The base zone minimum density requirements will apply to new
development, but would allow existing houses to add an accessory dwelling unit or to be
converted to multiple units, without needing to come all the way to conformance with
minimum density.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 149
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments

Figure 561-2
Height limits on sites across a street from RF – RM2R1 zones

33.561.240 Minimum Density in the RH Zone
A. Purpose. Reducing the minimum density on small lots in the RH zone provides flexibility for
development of a broader range of dwelling types.
B. Standard. In the RH zone, the minimum residential density on sites up to 5,000 square feet in
area is one unit per 2,000 square feet of site area. This standard does not apply on corner lots
or portions of sites within 200 feet of Interstate Avenue.
33.561.250 Exterior Display and Storage
In the RM3, RM4,RH and CM3 zones, exterior display and storage are prohibited except for outdoor
seating for restaurants and pedestrian-oriented accessory uses, including flower, food, or drink stands.
Temporary open-air markets and carnivals are also allowed.
33.561.310 Compatibility Standards in the R2.5 and RM1R2 Zones
A. [No change]
B. Where these standards apply. The standards of this section apply to duplexes, attached
houses, and multi-dwelling structures in the R2.5 and R2RM1 zones.
C. [No change]

Commentary

Page 150 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.562 Northwest Plan District
The Northwest Plan District sections listing is being amended to reflect the proposed deletion of
the Retail Sales and Service and Office Uses in the RH Zone section (see next pages).

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 151
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.562 Northwest Plan District 562

Sections:
General
33.562.010 Purpose
33.562.020 Where These Regulations Apply
Use Regulations
33.562.100 Residential Use Limitation
33.562.110 Retail Sales And Service Uses in the EG and CM3 Zones
33.562.120 Retail Sales And Service and Office Uses in the RH Zone
33.562.130 Commercial Parking in Multi-Dwelling Zones
Development Standards
33.562.200 Purpose
33.562.210 Maximum Height
33.562.220 Floor Area Ratios
33.562.230 Bonus Options
33.562.240 Standards on Main Streets and the Streetcar Alignment
33.562.250 Drive-Through Facilities Prohibited
33.562.260 Mechanical Equipment in the CM3 Zone
33.562.270 Minimum Active Floor Area
33.562.280 Parking
33.562.290 Use of Accessory Parking for Commercial Parking
33.562.300 Northwest Master Plan
33.562.310 Required Design Review
Map 562-1 Northwest Plan District
Map 562-2 Limited Use Areas
Map 562-3 Commercial Parking in Multi-Dwelling Zones
Map 562-4 Maximum Heights
Map 562-5 Floor Area Ratios
Map 562-6 Bonus Areas
Map 562-7 Areas with Special Development Standards
Map 562-8 Sites where Accessory Parking May be Operated as Commercial Parking
Map 562-9 Northwest Master Plan Required

Commentary

Page 152 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.562 Northwest Plan District
The Retail Sales and Service and Office Uses in the RH Zone section is proposed to be deleted
because it is largely redundant with proposed allowances for limited amounts of ground-floor
commercial uses in multi-dwelling zones along major corridors, including along the street alignment
in the Northwest District where this regulation applies (see pages 32-39 of Volume 2).
Other amendments to this page are updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 153
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.562.120 Retail Sales And Service and Office Uses in the RH Zone
A. Purpose. Certain commercial uses are allowed as limited uses in the RH zone to encourage
mixed-use development along the streetcar alignment, while preserving the residential
emphasis of areas zoned RH.
B. Regulations. Retail Sales And Service and Office uses are allowed in the RH zone as follows:
1. The uses must be located on the portion of the site within 100 feet of a streetcar
alignment; and
2. The uses are limited to 20 percent of the net building area on the site.
33.562.130 Commercial Parking in Multi-Dwelling Zones
A.-E. [No change]

Table 562-1
Parking Structure Setbacks From Lot Lines Abutting an R Zone
Site No. Setback from
the side lot line
of an R-zoned
lot
Setback from the rear lot line of an R-zoned lot

2, 3 Regulations of the RHRM3 and RM4 Zones apply
4 Regulations of the CM2 Zone apply; See Table 130-4
5, 6, 1 None None

F. Conditional Use. Commercial Parking may be requested as a Conditional Use if all of the
following standards are met. The entire site must meet the standards including any portion of
the site that is in a C zone. Adjustments to paragraphs F.1 through F.4 are prohibited.
1.-2. [No change]
3. Maximum height.
a. Generally. On the portion of a site within an R zone, the maximum height allowed is
30 feet. On the portion of a site within a C zone, the maximum height is 45 feet;
b. Exception. If at least 50 percent of the floor area of the structure containing the
Commercial Parking is in residential use, then the maximum height allowed on the
portion of the site in the RHRM3 and RM4 zones is 75 feet;
4.-5. [No change]
G.-H. [No change]

Commentary

Page 154 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments

33.564 Pleasant Valley Plan District
Planned Development. Triplexes and fourplexes are being added to this list of prohibited uses and
development because they were previously categorized as a type of multi-dwelling structure, but
multi dwelling structures are now defined as buildings with five or more units.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 155
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.564 Pleasant Valley Plan District 564

33.564.360 Planned Development
The following uses and development are prohibited through a planned development:
A. Attached houses;
B.  Attached duplexes;
C. Triplexes;
D. Fourplexes;
EC. Multi-dwelling structures; and
FD. Commercial uses.

Commentary

Page 156 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.575 Sandy Boulevard Plan District
Amendments to this page are updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 157
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.575 Sandy Boulevard Plan District 575

33.575.100 Transition Between Residential and Commercial Zones
A.-B. [No change]
C. Height limits for sites abutting or across the street from a RF-RM2R1 zones. Sites in
commercial zones abutting or across the street from RF through RM2R1 zones have special
height limits that create a transition to the residential zone. The height limits are
as follows:
1. Sites abutting RF - RM2R1 zones. Sites abutting RF through RM2R1 zones have height
limits that decrease in two steps near the residential zone. See Figure 575-1. These height
limits are:
a. On the portion of a site within 25 feet of a site zoned RF through RM2R1, the
maximum building height is the same as the abutting residential zone.
b. On the portion of a site that is more than 25 feet but within 50 feet of a site zoned RF
through RM2R1, the maximum building height is 45 feet.
2. Sites across a street from RF - RM2R1 zones. Sites across a street from RF through RM2R1
zones have height limits that decrease near the residential zone. On the portion of the site
within 15 feet of the lot line across the street from a site zoned RF though RM2R1, the
maximum building height is the same as the residential zone. See Figure 575-2.

Commentary

Page 158 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.575 Sandy Boulevard Plan District
Amendments to the graphics on this page are updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 159
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments

Figure 575-1
Height limits on sites abutting RF – RM2R1 zones

RM2
RM2

Commentary

Page 160 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.575 Sandy Boulevard Plan District
Amendments to the graphics on this page are updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 161
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
Figure 575-2
Height limits on sites across a street from zones RF - RM2R1 zones

RM2
RM2
RM2

Commentary

Page 162 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.583 St. Johns Plan District
The Minimum Density in the R1 Zone section is proposed to be deleted, which will instead require
that new development meet the standard base zone minimum density requirements for the R1 (new
RM2) zone.  The St. Johns plan district is a designated Town Center, which indicates the area’s
intended role as a place with concentrations of services and housing.  The plan district provides a
lower minimum density for the R1 zone, 1 units per 2,250 square feet of site area, which would allow
for 4 units on a site just under 10,000 square feet.  In comparison, the base R1 (new RM2)
regulations require a minimum density of 1 unit per 1,450 square feet of site area (at least 7 units
on a 10,000 square-foot site).
Especially because St. Johns is a designated Town Center, there is not a compelling reason for why
minimum densities should continue to be less than what is generally required in the R1 (RM2) zone.
The base zone minimum densities will still allow for a diversity of housing options, as it is not
uncommon to have 8 to 10 townhouse units on a 10,000 square foot site (as well as a variety of
multi-dwelling housing types with smaller units).
This amendment is part of a broader Better Housing by Design approach intended to strengthen
minimum density requirements (see also Volume 2, pages 70-73 and 202-203).  The base zone
minimum density requirements will apply to new development, but would allow existing houses to add
an accessory dwelling unit or to be converted to multiple units, without needing to come all the way
to conformance with minimum density.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 163
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.583 St. Johns Plan District 583

Sections:
General
33.583.010 Purpose
33.583.020 Where These Regulations Apply
Use Regulations
33.583.100 Purpose
33.583.110 Prohibited Uses
33.583.120 Retail Sales And Service Uses in the CM3 Zone
Development Standards
33.583.200 Purpose
33.583.210 Drive-Through Facilities
33.583.220 Exterior Activities in the EG and CM3 Zones
33.583.230 Detached Houses Prohibited in the CM3 Zone
33.583.240 Minimum Density in the R1 Zone
33.583.250 Maximum Building Height
33.583.270 Building Coverage in the EX Zone
33.583.285 Additional Regulations in the Riverfront Subdistrict
33.583.290 Required Design Review
Map 583-1 St. Johns Plan District
Map 583-2 Maximum Heights

33.583.240 Minimum Density in the R1 Zone.
A. Purpose. Reducing the minimum density on small lots in the R1 zone provides flexibility for
development of a broad range of dwelling types.
B. Standard. On lots less than 10,000 square feet in the R1 zone, the minimum density is 1 unit
per 2,250 square feet of site area. This standard does not apply on corner lots.

Commentary

Page 164 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.631 Sites in Flood Hazard Areas
Amendments to this page are updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 165
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.631 Sites in Flood Hazard Areas 631

33.631.100 Flood Hazard Area Approval Criteria
A. [No change]
B. R3RM1 through RMP, C, E, I, IR, and CI zones. The following criteria must be met in the R3RM1
through RMP, C, E, I, IR, and CI zones:
1.-2. [No change]
C. [No change]

Commentary

Page 166 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.634 Required Recreation Area
Amendments to this page are primarily updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.  “IR” is no longer
being included among the range of multi-dwelling zones because this zone had been moved from the
multi-dwelling zones (Chapter 33.120) to the Campus Institutional zones (Chapter 33.150) in
previous amendments to the zoning code.
The regulations of this chapter apply to land divisions in residential zones when the proposed
density is 40 or more dwelling units.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 167
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.634 Required Recreation Area 634

33.634.200 Required Recreation Area Standards
The following standards must be met:
A. [No change]
B. RF-RM1R2 and RMP zones. In the RF-RM1R2 and RMP zones, the recreation area must be in
one or more recreation area tracts. Recreation area tracts must meet the requirements of
Subsection D., below.
C. RM2-RX and IR zonesR1-IR zones. In the RM2-RX, and IR zonesR1-IR zones, the recreation area
may be in one or more recreation area tracts, in a roof-top garden, or in floor area improved
for the purpose of passive or active recreation. Recreation area tracts must meet the
requirements of Subsection D., below.
D. [No change]

Commentary

Page 168 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.667 Property Line Adjustment
Amendments to this page are updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 169
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.667 Property Line Adjustment 667

33.667.300 Standards
The site of a Property Line Adjustment is the two properties affected by the relocation of the common
property line. A request for a Property Line Adjustment will be approved if all of the following are met:
A. [No change]
B. Regular Llot Llines. In the R10 through RM4RH and RMP zones, the adjusted property line must
be a straight line or up to 20 percent shorter or 20 percent longer than the existing lot line.
Lines that are adjusted to follow an established zoning line or the boundary of the special flood
hazard area or floodway are exempt from this requirement.
C.-F. [No change]

Commentary

Page 170 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.805 Adjustments
Amendments to this page are updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 171
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.805 Adjustments 805

33.805.030 Regulations Which May and May Not Be Adjusted
A. [No change]
B. Ineligible regulations. Adjustments are prohibited for the following items:
1.-3. [No change]
 4. As an exception to a qualifying situation for a regulation, such as zones allowed or items
being limited to new development. An example of this is 33.251.030.C, which says that
manufactured dwelling parks are allowed only in the RM1 zoneR3 and R2 zones. An
adjustment could not be granted to allow a manufactured dwelling park in any other R
zone;
5.-6. [No change]
7. To allow an increase in density in the RF through RM2R1 or RMP zones.

Commentary

Page 172 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.815 Conditional Uses
The sections listing on this page is being amended to remove the RX zone from the title of Section
33.815.125.  The Hollywood plan district conditional use allowance for commercial parking in the RX
zone was deleted as part of the Code Reconciliation Project (effect May 24, 2018).

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 173
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.815 Conditional Uses
815

Sections:
General
33.815.010 Purpose
33.815.020 How to Use this Chapter
33.815.030 Automatic Conditional Use Status
33.815.040 Review Procedures
33.815.050 Loss of Conditional Use Status
33.815.060 Development Standards for Conditional Uses
33.815.070 Sites With Split Zoning
33.815.080 Approval Criteria in General
Approval Criteria
33.815.100 Uses in the Open Space Zones
33.815.105 Institutional and Other Uses in Residential and Campus Institutional Zones
33.815.107 Short Term Housing and Mass Shelters in R and IR Zones
33.815.110 Office and Retail Sales And Service Uses in the RX Zone
33.815.115 Specified Uses in Commercial/Mixed Use Zones
33.815.120 Commercial Parking Facilities in the RX, CX, and E Zones, Outside the Central
 City Plan District, the Columbia South Shore Plan District and the Cascade
 Station/Portland International Center Plan District
33.815.121 Commercial Parking Facilities in the RX, CM2, and CM3 Zones,
 in the Hollywood Plan District
33.815.125 Specified Uses in Industrial Zones
33.815.126 Office Uses in the IG1 Zone in the Central City Plan District
33.815.127 Accessory Offices and Headquarters Offices in the IH Zone in the Guild’s Lake
 Industrial Sanctuary Plan District
33.815.128 Retail Sales And Service Uses in the EG Zones
33.815.129 Office Uses in Specified Historic Resources in the Industrial Zones in the Central City
 Plan District
33.815.130 Residential Uses in the IG1, IG2, and IH Zones
33.815.140 Specified Mass Shelters, Short Term Housing, And Group Living Uses in the
C, E, and CI Zones
33.815.200 Aviation And Surface Passenger Terminals
33.815.205 Detention Facilities
33.815.210 Helicopter Landing Facilities
33.815.215 Major Event Entertainment
33.815.220 Mining and Waste-Related
33.815.222 Park-and-Ride Facilities for Mass Transit
33.815.223 Public Safety Facilities

Commentary

Page 174 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.815.121 Commercial Parking Facilities in the RX, CM2 and CM3 Zones in the Hollywood
Plan District
The title of this section is being amended to remove the RX zone.  The Hollywood plan district
conditional use allowance for commercial parking in the RX zone was deleted as part of the Code
Reconciliation Project (effect May 24, 2018).

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 175
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.815.225 Radio Frequency Transmission Facilities
33.815.230 Rail Lines and Utility Corridors
33.815.300 Commercial Parking Facilities in the Columbia South Shore Plan District
33.815.301 Industrial Businesses in the Columbia South Shore Plan District
33.815.302 Professional / Technical Facilities in the Columbia South Shore Plan District
33.815.303 Retail Sales And Service Uses in the Columbia South Shore Plan District
33.815.304 Retail Sales And Service Uses on Specified Sites in the CX and EX Zones in the Central City
 Plan District
33.815.305 Replacement Parking Facilities in the Central City Plan District
33.815.308 Commercial Parking in Multi-Dwelling Zones and Commercial Parking Access from
 Main Streets in the Northwest Plan District
33.815.310 Industrial Uses in the IR Zone
33.815.315 Utility Scale Energy Production in Specified C Zones

33.815.121 Commercial Parking Facilities in the RX, CM2 and CM3 Zones in the Hollywood Plan
District
These approval criteria provide for commercial parking facilities that support urban-scale development
in the Hollywood plan district by providing parking for visitors, customers, and employees of Hollywood.
The criteria are not intended to allow parking facilities in such quantity, concentration, or appearance
that they detract from the desired character of Hollywood. The approval criteria are:
A.-C. [No change]

Commentary

Page 176 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.825 Design Review

No change to the portion of Table 825-1 on this page.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 177
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.825 Design Review
825

Table 825-1
Procedure Type for Design Review Proposals
Design Districts Proposal Threshold Procedure
Downtown Design
District
New floor area > 1,000 s.f.  Type III
≤ 1,000 s.f. Type II
Exterior alteration Value > $459,450 Type III
Value ≤ $459,450 Type II
River District Design
District
New floor area or
Exterior alteration
in CX or OS zone
>1,000 s.f. and value >
$459,450 Type III
≤ 1,000 s.f. or
value ≤ $459,450 Type II
Gateway Design District  Development proposals
Value > $2,297,050
included in a Gateway
Master Plan Review
Type III
Value ≤ $2,297,050 and
not part of Gateway
Master Plan Review
Type II
Marquam Hill Design
District Development proposals In design overlay zones Type II Sellwood-Moreland
Design District
Terwilliger Parkway
Design District
Proposals that are
visible from Terwilliger
Boulevard
Non single-dwelling
development Type III
Single-dwelling
development Type II
Central Eastside
Development proposals
Value > $2,297,050 Type III Goose Hollow
Lloyd District
Macadam
Value ≤ $2,297,050 Type II River District
South Waterfront
Community Plans
Albina Community Plan
area, including Lower
Albina
Development proposals In design overlay zones Type II
Outer Southeast
Community Plan area,
excluding Gateway
Design District
Southwest Community
Plan Area, excluding
Macadam & Terwilliger
Design Districts

Commentary

Page 178 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.825 Design Review

Amendments to Table 825-1 correspond to the discontinuation of “a”-overlay provisions for
additional density in the  multi-dwelling zones when approved through design review (Section
33.405.050 – see pages 224-227 in Volume 2).

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 179
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
Table 825-1
Procedure Type for Design Review Proposals
Plan Districts Proposal Threshold  Procedure
Central City Plan District,
excluding Lower Albina
Development proposals
In design overlay zones
and value > $2,297,050 Type III
Northwest Plan District
In design overlay zones
and value ≤ $2,297,050 Type II South Auditorium Plan
District
Albina Plan District
Development proposals In design overlay zones Type II
Hollywood Plan District
North Interstate Plan
District
St. Johns Plan District
Overlay Zones
“a” Alternative Design
Density overlay
Additional density in R3,
R2, R1 zone
Using bonus density
provisions in 33.405.050 Type III
Using other provisions in
33.405
Not subject to
33.405.050
In single dwelling zones
Type II
“d” Design overlay  Development proposals
Not identified elsewhere
in this table and value >
$2,297,050
Type III
Not identified elsewhere
in this table and value <
$2,297,050
Type II
Base Zones
All zones
Signs
In design overlay zones Type II
Exterior mechanical
equipment
New or replacement
awnings
C zones Planned Development
Using the Planned
Development bonus
provision described in
33.130.212
Type III
C, E, I, RX, CI zones Facade alteration ≤ 500 square feet in
design overlay zones Type II
RF - R2.5 zones
Subject to section
33.110.213, Additional
Development Standards
Requests to modify
standards Type II
IR zone site with an
approved Impact
Mitigation Plan (IMP)
Proposals that are
identified in IMP
IMP design guidelines
are qualitative Type II
Proposals that are
identified in IMP
IMP design guidelines
are objective or
quantitative
Type Ix

Commentary

Page 180 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.846 Historic Resource Reviews

Amendments to the tables on this page are updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 181
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.846 Historic Resource Reviews
846

Table 846-1
Procedure Types for proposals affecting Historic Landmarks
Proposal Zone Threshold Procedure
Alterations of a landmark-designated
interior public space All
Project value
> $459,450 Type III
Project value
≤ $459,450 Type II
Mechanical equipment All Exterior Type Ix
Awnings All New or replacement Type Ix
Signs C, E, I, RX, CI Sign area
< 150 sq. ft. Type Ix
Alteration to the exterior of
a structure C, E, I, RX, CI Affected facade
area < 500 sq. ft.  Type Ix
Historic restoration RF-RM4RH  Type I
Any other non-exempt exterior
alteration or historic
restoration proposal
All
Project value
> $459,450 Type III
Project value
≤ $459,450 Type II

Table 846-2
Procedure Types for proposals affecting Conservation Landmarks
Proposal Zone Threshold Procedure
Signs C, E, I, RX, CI Sign area
< 150 sq. ft. Type Ix
Alteration to the exterior of
a structure C, E, I, RX, CI Affected facade
area < 500 sq. ft.  Type Ix
Historic restoration RF- RM4RH  Type I
Any other non-exempt exterior
alteration or historic
restoration proposal
All  Type II

Commentary

Page 182 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.846 Historic Resource Reviews

Amendments to the tables on this page are updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 183
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments

Table 846-3
Review procedures for proposals within Historic Districts
Proposal Zone Threshold Review Type
New structure
All Project value
> $459,450 Type III
Project value
≤ $459,450 Type II
New accessory structure RF- RM4RH  Type I
Signs C, E, I, RX, CI Sign area
< 150 sq. ft. Type Ix
Alteration to the exterior of a
structure
C, E, I, RX, CI Affected facade
area < 500 sq. ft.  Type Ix
Alteration to the exterior of a
structure
RF- RM4RH Affected facade
area < 150 sq. ft. Type I
Historic restoration RF- RM4RH  Type I
Any other non-exempt exterior
alteration or historic restoration
proposal
All Project value
> $459,450 Type III
Project value
≤ $459,450 Type II

Table 846-4
Review procedures for proposals within Conservation Districts
Proposal Zone Threshold Review Type
New structure All  Type II
New accessory structure RF- RM4RH  Type I
Signs C, E, I, RX, CI Sign area
< 150 sq. ft. Type Ix
Alteration to the exterior of a
structure C, E, I, RX, CI Affected facade
area < 500 sq. ft.  Type Ix
Alteration to the exterior of a
structure RF- RM4RH Affected facade
area < 150 sq. ft.  Type I
Historic restoration RF- RM4RH  Type I
Any other non-exempt exterior
alteration or historic restoration
proposal
All  Type II

Commentary

Page 184 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.854 Planned Development Review
Amendments to this page are primarily updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.  “IR” is no longer
being included among the range of multi-dwelling zones because this zone had been moved from the
multi-dwelling zones (Chapter 33.120) to the Campus Institutional zones (Chapter 33.150) in
previous amendments to the zoning code.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 185
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.854 Planned Development Review 854
33.854.340 Proposals Without a Land Division
The approval criteria of this section apply to Planned Developments that do not include a land division,
except Planned Developments that are only using the commercial/mixed use zones Planned
Development bonus. The approval criteria are:
A.-B.  [No change]
C. Flood hazard areas.
1. RF through R2.5 zones. In the RF through R2.5 zones, all proposed building locations must
be outside of the flood hazard area.
2. R1RM2 through RXIR, C, E, and I, and IR zones. In the R1RM2 through RXIR, C, E, and I, and
IR zones, all proposed building locations must be outside of the flood hazard area where
possible. Where it is not possible to have all building locations outside of the flood hazard
area, all proposed building locations must be configured to reduce the impact of flooding
and to provide the greatest protection for development from flooding. Proposed building
locations must be clustered on the highest ground and near the highest point of access,
and they must be configured in a manner that will minimize obstruction of floodwaters.
D.-G. [No change]

Commentary

Page 186 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.855 Zoning Map Amendments

Amendments to Table 855-1 are updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 187
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.855 Zoning Map Amendments
855

Table 855-1
Assigned City Zoning for Multnomah County Zones
Multnomah County Zones Assigned City Zoning
Base zones
Areas with farm or residential zoning
outside the UGB
FR + f
Areas with commercial zoning outside
the UGB
CM1
CFU, F2, MUA-20, RR, SR, LR-40, R-40,
LR-30, R-30, MUF-19, MUF-38
RF [1]
UF-10, UF-20 inside the UGB [2]
RC inside the UGB CM1
LR-20, R-20 R20
LR-10, R-10 R10
LR-7, R7 R7
LR-7.5 R7 + Glendoveer Plan District
LR-5 R5
MR-4, MR-3 RM1R3 [3]
HR-2, A-2 RM1R2 [3]
HR-1, A1B RM2R1 [3]
BPO CM2
LC, C4, SC CM1
GC, EC, C2, NC, C3 CE
LM, M3, M4 EG1
Gm, M2 IG2

Commentary

Page 188 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
33.855 Zoning Map Amendments

Amendments to Table 855-1 are updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 189
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
Table 855-1
Assigned City Zoning for Multnomah County Zones
HM, M1 IH
THR RM3RH
TMR RM1R3 [3]
TLR-5 R5
TLC CM1
TNC CM2
TGC CM2
TO CM2
TLM EG1
Overlay zones
SEC p, c [4]
FH, FF, FW not mapped; handled by Bureau of Development Services
NI X
PD, RPD Not mapped; becomes an approved PUD
OP Not mapped
CS If open space, then OS base zone; just the base zone
otherwise
HP D
LF H
WRG g, r, i, n [4]
Notes:
[1] The designation will be RF unless this land is in an approved subdivision at a density higher than
RF or has been preplanned by an adopted City plan, in which case a higher density zone may be
applied.
[2] Reviewed through a quasi-judicial review; initiated by the Director of BDS.
[3] Sites with a documented, approved office are CM1. Sites with a documented, approved retail or
commercial use are CM1.
[4] The most appropriate overlay zone will be applied based on any approved City plans.

Commentary

Page 190 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 191
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
Section 2:
Amendments to Titles 18 and 32

This section presents proposed code amendments to the following City Code titles:

Title 18, Noise Control
Title 32, Signs and Related Regulations

The amendments update references to multi-dwelling zones to correspond to the proposed new zone
names (see page 2 of this document for a summary of the current and proposed new multi-dwelling
zones).

Commentary

Page 192 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
Title 18, Noise Control

Amendments to Title 18 are updates to the multi-dwelling zone names (see listing of corresponding
old and new zone names, below).

Current and Corresponding New Zones

Current
Short
Name
Current Full Name New
Short
Name
New Full Name
R3
R2
Residential 3,000
Residential 2,000
RM1 Residential Multi-Dwelling 1
R1 Residential 1,000 RM2 Residential Multi-Dwelling 2
RH High Density Residential (2:1 FAR) RM3 Residential Multi-Dwelling 3
RH High Density Residential (4:1 FAR) RM4 Residential Multi-Dwelling 4

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 193
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
TITLE 18
NOISE CONTROL

18.04.040 Definitions.
(Amended by Ordinance Nos. 159276, 164010, 175772 and 184101, effective October 8,
2010.)  The following words shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this Section:

A.-EE. [No Change]
FF. Zone:  A classification of area of the City of Portland as described in Title 33 of the
City Code, relating to the use to which property may be put.  For the purposes of
this title, the zones are based upon the Land Use Zones, as defined in Title 33 as
follows:

Category Zones
Open Space Open Space

Residential Residential Farm/Forest
 Residential 20,000
 Residential 10,000
 Residential 7,000
 Residential 5,000
 Residential 2,500
 Residential 3,000
 Residential 2,000
 Residential 1,000
 High Density Residential
 Residential Multi-Dwelling 1
 Residential Multi-Dwelling 2
 Residential Multi-Dwelling 3
 Residential Multi-Dwelling 4
 Central Residential
Residential Manufactured Dwelling Park
 Commercial Residential
 Institutional Residential
 Campus Institutional 1

Commercial/Mixed Use [No Change]

Industrial [No Change]

Commentary

Page 194 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments

Title 32, Signs and Related Regulations

Amendments to this page of Title 32 are updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 195
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
TITLE 32
SIGNS AND RELATED REGULATIONS

32.12.020 Exemptions.
(Amended by Ordinance Nos. 178946 and 182962, effective July 31, 2009.)  The following
are exempt from the regulations of this Title, but may be subject to other portions of the
City Code:

A. [No Change]
B. Signs inside a building. However:
1. In the OS, RF through RM4RH, RMP, CI1, CR, and IR zones, illuminated
signs in windows are not exempt; and
2. Signs located within malls and atriums must comply with all provisions of
this Title except Chapters 32.30 through 32.38;
C.-J. [No Change]

Commentary

Page 196 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
Title 32 (Base Zone Regulations)

Amendments to this page of Title 32 are updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.
Signs associated with the commercial uses that are proposed to be allowed in multi-dwelling zones
abutting Civic or Neighborhood corridors (see pages 32-39 of Volume 2) will be subject to the sign
standards of the RX zone (signs in this zone are limited to 50 square feet, compared to 100 square
feet in the CM2 and CX zones).

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 197
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
Chapter 32.32

BASE ZONE REGULATIONS

Sections:
32.32.010 Standards in the Residential Zones, Campus Institution 1, Commercial
Residential, and Open Space Zone.
32.32.020 Standards in the Commercial/Mixed Use, Employment, and Industrial Zones.
32.32.030 Additional Standards in All Zones.
32.32.010 Standards in the Residential Zones, Campus Institution 1, Commercial
Residential, and Open Space Zone.
A. General standards.  The standards for permanent signs in the RF through RM4RH
zones and for the RMP, IR, CI1, CR and OS zones are stated in Table 1.  The sign
standards for the RX zone are stated in Table 2.  All signs must conform to the
regulations of Section 32.32.030.

Table 1
Standards for Permanent Signs in CI1, CR, IR, OS and RF Through RM4RH Zones [1]
Use Category/Structure Type[2] Number of
Signs
Max. Sign
Face Area
Types of
Signs Allowed
Maximum
Sign Height
Additional
Signs
Allowed [3]
Household Living/
Houses, Duplexes,
Attached Houses.
1 per site 1 sq. ft.
Fascia,
Painted Wall

Freestanding
Top of wall, or
10 ft. whichever
is less.

6 ft.
lawn signs,
directional
signs
Household Living/
Townhouse, Multi-dwelling
Group Living, Day Care,
Nonresidential category uses not listed
below.

1 per building 10 sq. ft.
Fascia, Awning,
Painted Wall

Freestanding
Top of wall

10 ft.
lawn signs,
directional
signs
Subdivisions, PUDs, Houseboat Moorages,
Mobile Home Parks, Agricultural Uses. [4]

1 per entrance 32 sq. ft. Monument 10 ft.
lawn signs,
directional
signs
Parks and Open Areas [5] 1 per street
frontage 10 sq. ft.  Monument 10 ft
lawn signs,
directional
signs
Colleges, Community Service, Medical
Centers, Religious Institutions, Schools,
Commercial Outdoor Recreation, Major
Event Entertainment, and uses in
Commercial and Industrial use categories.

The sign standards of the RX zone applies.  See Section 32.32.020.
Notes:
[1]  Temporary signs are regulated by 32.32.030 K, Temporary Signs.
[2]  See 32.30.030, Uses, Use Categories, and Structure Types.
[3]  These signs are allowed in addition to other signs when they meet the standards of 32.32.030 H.-J.
[4]  These signs are allowed in addition to those for individual buildings.
[5]  Signs in, or adjacent to and facing, a sports fields associated with Parks and Open Areas are subject to the standards of the RX
zone.  See 32.32.020.

Commentary

Page 198 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments

Title 32 (Base Zone Regulations)

Amendments to this page of Title 32 include the following:
 Updates to the multi-dwelling zone names.
 Removal of the Albina Community plan district provisions specific to commercial uses in the
RH zone, since this plan district provision is being replaced by a citywide allowance for
commercial uses on major corridors (see pages 108-111 of this volume).

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 199
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
B. Sign features.  Signs in the RF through RM4RH zones and in the RMP, IR, CI1,
CR, and OS zones, except for those subject to the RX zone sign standards, are
subject to the standards of this subsection.  Illuminated signs placed in windows are
subject to these sign regulations.  Extensions into the right-of-way are prohibited.
Changing image sign features are prohibited and only indirect lighting is allowed.

32.32.030 Additional Standards in All Zones.
(Amended by Ordinance Nos. 176469, 185915 and 188959, effective May 24, 2018.)

A.-E. [No Change]
F. Freestanding signs and monument signs.
1.-2. [No Change]
3. Undeveloped sites.  Permanent freestanding signs on sites without a primary
use are subject to the regulations for Subdivisions shown in Table 1,
Standards for Permanent Signs in the IR, OS and RF-RM4RH Zones.
4. [No Change]
G.-K. [No Change]

32.34.030 Additional Standards in Plan Districts.
(Amended by Ordinance Nos. 176469, 179092 and 182072, effective August 22, 2008.)
Plan districts are shown on the Official Zoning Maps.
A. Albina Community plan district.
1. Where this regulation applies.  The regulation of this subsection applies to
signs in the Albina Community plan district.
2. Sign standard.  Signs for commercial uses in the RH zone are subject to the
sign regulations for the CX zone.

Commentary

Page 200 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
Title 32 (Base Zone Regulations)

Amendments to this page of Title 32 are limited to re-lettering the paragraphs to accommodate
deletion of the Albina Community plan district provisions.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 201
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
B.-F. Re-letter to A.-E.
FG. South Auditorium plan district
1. Where these regulations apply.  The regulations of this subsection apply to
the South Auditorium plan district.
2. Standards.
a. Design review.  Unless exempted under Subparagraphs GF.2.f. and
g., below, all exterior signs, regardless of size, are subject to design
review.  See Chapter 33.420, Design Overlay Zone.
b.-d. [No Change]
e. Signs for other uses and developments.  The maximum total sign
area allowed per frontage for uses or developments not listed in
Subparagraphs GF.2.c. and d., above is 1 square foot for each 3
lineal feet of primary building wall.  Only signs attached to buildings
are allowed, except in a commercial zone where up to two
freestanding signs per arterial street frontage are allowed.  One sign
is not allowed to exceed 12 feet in height and 100 square feet in area,
and the other sign is not allowed to exceed 5 feet in height and 10
square feet in area.  The regulations of the base zone supersede the
regulations of this subparagraph when they are more restrictive.
f. Temporary signs, portable signs, and lawn signs.  Temporary signs,
portable signs, and lawn signs are exempt from the sign regulations
of Subparagraph GF.2.a. through e.., above.  Temporary signs and
portable signs are limited to a total combined area of 25 square feet
per site.
g. Directional signs.  Directional signs are exempt from the sign
regulations of Subparagraph GF.2.c. through e., above.
H.-I. Re-letter to G.-H.

Commentary

Page 202 Better Housing by Design—As Amended December 2, 2019
 Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
Title 32 (Base Zone Regulations)

Amendments to this page of Title 32 are limited to re-lettering the paragraphs to accommodate
deletion of the Albina Community plan district provisions.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
December 2, 2019 Better Housing by Design—As Amended Page 203
        Volume 3: Additional Zoning Code Amendments
IJ. North Interstate plan district.
1. Purpose. Encouraging retention of the mid-century signs identified in this
subsection will represent Interstate Avenue Corridor’s rich past as US Route
99, which was the West Coast’s major north-south highway before
Interstate 5 was built. Because their current locations may preclude desired
development, allowing them to move to other locations along the corridor
is necessary to ensure preservation.
2. Where these regulations apply. The regulations of this subsection apply
only to signs in the North Interstate plan district listed in Paragraph JI.4.
3. Relocation allowed. The special signs listed in Paragraph JI.4, below, may
be relocated as follows:
a.-h. [No Change]
4. [No Change]

Happy Valley
SKYLINE
AVE
LAKE
RD
LOMBARD
MARINE
DR
ST
RD
RIVER
RD
BEAVERTON
AVE
BLVD
232ND   AV
DR
FOURTH
RD STEPHENSON
AVE
RD
I-84
MARINE
GERMANTOWN
BLVD
LIESSER
RD
BLVD
B
ARBUR
RD
KERR
Fairview
TACOMA ST
112TH ST
185TH
42ND
ST
SUNSET
6TH AVE
ST
GILLIHAN
RD
Bybee Lake
PKW
Y
SANDY
I-5
BLVD
G
RAND
TERW
ILLIGER
BLVD
32ND
AVE
HALL
BLVD
AVE
ST
28TH ST
BLVD
FERRY
137TH AVE
NORTH
PORTLAND
RD
AVE
ST
JO
HNS
RD
B
LVD
HART RD
FLAVEL
AVE
VERMONT
RD
HW
Y
43
125TH
AVE
23RD
AVE
Maywood
72ND
164TH
AVE
33RD
148TH
170TH
Airport
RD
STEELE
US
30
LOMBARD
CESAR    E.    CHAVEZ
US     26
RD
129TH
AVE
112TH AVE
G
REENBURG
WALNUT
STARK
PKW
Y
12TH
RD
MACARTHUR BLVD
SCHOLLS
BLVD
AVE
F OSBERG
PATTON
BANFIE LD
W
illam
ette
River
I-405
JR.
122ND
ST
MILL
RD
STARK
223RD
JENKINS
TIEDMAN
FOSTER
RD
217 R D
53RD ST
WEIR RD
138TH AVE
DOSCH
FARMINGTON
19TH
AVE
BLVD
ST
I-205
39TH  ST
KILLINGSWORTH
KAISER
AVE
BLVD
172ND
AVE
HWY
224
DAVIS RD
BARNES
AVE
GREELEY
AVe
ST
BROOKS
RD
FREMONT
Wood
HALSEY
KING RD
97TH
AVE
ST
4TH
RD
EVERGREEN
BLVD
20TH
BLVD
AVE
Willamette River
FOURTH
242ND
1ST ST
FLAT
AVE
M
ARTIN
LINNW
OOD
13TH
AVE
SR-501
ST
Scott
HWY 14
MERLO R
D
ST
HWY
BLVD
PLAIN
FERRY
MILL  PLAIN  BLVD
INTERSTATE
FOSTER
Butte
WALKER
DR
143RD
AVE
DR
SANDY
RD
JOHNSON CREEK B LVD
TILLSTROM
RD
192ND AV
Portland
Burlington
BLVD
AVE
I-5
35TH AV
RIDGECREST RD
HOLGATE
REUSER
CEDAR
GOING ST
CLATSOP ST
RD
COR NELL
RD
Smith Lake
RD
TOW
LE
AVE
33RD
LOOP
Beaverton
FREEWAY
BLVD
BURNSIDE
HOGAN
BLVD
LUTHER
RD
1
21ST
AVE
PLAIN
M
CLOUGHLIN
AVE
BLVD
AVE
82ND
RD
SHATTUCK
ST
DIVISION
BROADWAY
BLVD
LEADBETTERRD
ANDRESON
VISTA
222ND
AVE
ALLEN
DENNEY
PAR
KER
ST
SUNNYSIDE
62ND AV
Aloha
BLVD
RD
HILLS
BORGES RD
RD
Park
AVE
92ND
ROBERTS
FERRY
R
EGNER
RD
Gresham
RD
18TH ST
NAITO
US
30
BLVD
US 26
Columbia River
HAWTHORNE
BROADW
AY
TAYLORS
AVE
ST
192ND AVE
ST
M
AIN
AIRPORT
WEST
KINGFERRY
RD
AVE
WOODSTOCK
NEWBERRY
FT VANCOUVER
RD
Milwaukie
CULLY
THOMPSON
I-5
ST
WALKER
GARDEN
34TH   ST
RD
TILLSTROM RD
190TH
KAISER
RD
HOME RD
AVE
52ND
242ND
AVE
ST
Tigard
112TH
AVE
SAUVIE
ISLAND
RD
POWELL
AVE
BLVD
DIVISION
AVE
RD
147TH
AVE
RD
162ND
BLVD
45TH
102ND
ALDERCREST DR
CORNELL
TERW
ILLIGER
MCGILLIVRAY BLVD
158TH
AVE
YEON AVE
WAY
RD
Mt
GLISAN
UNION
BOONES
OLDSCHOLLSFERRY
HILLSDALE
RD
AVE
RD
BLVD
RD
COLUMBIA
BLVD
BLVD
LESSERRD
20TH   ST
I-205
AVE
Powell
West Union
International
Forest          Park
BELMONT
3OTH
ST
AVE
CANYON
PRESCOTT
Vancouver
135TH AVE
BLVD
BURNSIDE RD
FRUIT
VALLEY
RD
AVE
FULLER
RD
BLVD
AVE
MT SCOTT
RD
17TH
AVE
BUTLER
ELLSW
ORTH
LOMBARD
ST
KING
ST
RD
ST
ST
PLAIN
OLESON
HALSEY
WILLAMETTE
BLVD
HW
Y
49TH
AVE
182ND
RD
I-5
M
URRAY
RD
162ND
AVE
ST
76TH
AVE
BERTHA
WAY
SPRINGVIL LE
BARBUR
AVE
POWELL
82ND
185TH
AVE
136TH
EASTM
AN
HW
Y
8
BLVD
RD
Village
RD
BROADW
AY
COLUMBIA
HWY 500
KILLINGSWORTH
BLVD
LAKE
RD
July 8, 2019
N
0 3,000 6,000 9,000
Feet
E:\Dropbox (BPS Tech Services)\BPS Tech Services Team Folder\gis\projects\Multifamily_Lots\MapApp\34x44_MultiDwelling_CompPlan_WebMap.mxd
Legend
Proposed Multi-dwelling Comprehensive Plan Designations
Multi-Dwelling - Neighborhood
Multi-Dwelling - Corridor
Multi-Dwelling - Urban Center
Central Residential
Manufactured Dwelling Park
Centers
City Boundary
Urban Service Boundary
City of Portland, Oregon // Bureau of Planning & Sustainability // Geographic Information System
The information on this map was derived from City of Portland GIS databases. Care was taken in the creation of this map but it is provided "as is".
The City of Portland cannot accept any responsibility for error, omissions or positional accuracy.
City of Portland
Exhibit C: As Amended Comprehensive Plan Map Designations
Happy Valley
SKYLINE
AVE
LAKE RD
LOMBARD
MARINE
DR
ST
RD
RIVER
RD
BEAVERTON
AVE
BLVD
232ND   AV
DR
FOURTH
RD STEPHENSON
AVE
RD
I-84
MARINE
GERMANTOWN
BLVD
LIESSER
RD
BLVD
B
ARBUR
RD
KERR
Fairview
TACOMA ST
112TH ST
185TH
42ND
ST
SUNSET
6TH AVE
ST
GILLIHAN
RD
Bybee Lake
PKW
Y
SANDY
I-5
BLVD
G
RAND
TERW
ILLIGER
BLVD
32ND
AVE
HALL
BLVD
AVE
ST
28TH ST
BLVD
FERRY
137TH AVE
NORTH
PORTLAND
RD
AVE
STJOHNS
RD
BLVD
HART RD
FLAVEL
AVE
VERMONT
RD
HWY
43
125TH
AVE
23RD
AVE
Maywood
72ND
164TH
AVE
33RD
148TH
170TH
Airport
RD
STEELE
US
30
LOMBARD
CESAR    E.    CHAVEZ
US     26
RD
129TH
AVE
112TH AVE
G
REENBURG
WALNUT
STARK
PKW
Y
12TH
RD
MACARTHUR BLVD
SCHOLLS
BLVD
AVE
F OSBERG
PATTON
BANFIE LD
W
illam
ette
River
I-405
JR.
122ND
ST
MILL
RD
STARK
223RD
JENKINS
TIEDMAN
FOSTER
RD
217 R D
53RD ST
WEIR RD
138TH AVE
DOSCH
FARMINGTON
19TH
AVE
BLVD
ST
I-205
39TH  ST
KILLINGSWORTH
KAISER
AVE
BLVD
172ND
AVE
HWY
224
DAVIS RD
BARNES
AVE
GREELEY
AVe
ST
BROOKS
RD
FREMONT
Wood
HALSEY
KING RD
97TH
AVE
ST
4TH
RD
EVERGREEN
BLVD
20TH
BLVD
AVE
Willamette River
FOURTH
242ND
1ST ST
FLAT
AVE
M
ARTIN
LINNW
OOD
13TH
AVE
SR-501
ST
Scott
HWY 14
MERLO R D
ST
HWY
BLVD
PLAIN
FERRY
MILL  PLAIN  BLVD
INTERSTATE
FOSTER
Butte
WALKER
DR
143RD
AVE
DR
SANDY
RD
JOHNSON CREEK B LVD
TILLSTROM
RD
192ND AV
Portland
Burlington
BLVD
AVE
I-5
35TH AV
RIDGECREST RD
HOLGATE
REUSER
CEDAR
GOING ST
CLATSOP ST
RD
COR NELL
RD
Smith Lake
RD
TOW
LE
AVE
33RD
LOOP
Beaverton
FREEWAY
BLVD
BURNSIDE
HOGAN
BLVD
LUTHER
RD
1
21ST
AVE
PLAIN
M
CLOUGHLIN
AVE
BLVD
AVE
82ND
RD
SHATTUCK
ST
DIVISION
BROADWAY
BLVD
LEADBETTERRD
ANDRESON
VISTA
222ND
AVE
ALLEN
DENNEY
PARKER
ST
SUNNYSIDE
62ND AV
Aloha
BLVD
RD
HILLS
BORGES RD
RD
Park
AVE
92ND
ROBERTS
FERRY
R
EGNER
RD
Gresham
RD
18TH ST
NAITO
US
30
BLVD
US 26
Columbia River
HAWTHORNE
BROADW
AY
TAYLORS
AVE
ST
192ND AVE
ST
M
AIN
AIRPORT
WEST
KINGFERRY
RD
AVE
WOODSTOCK
NEWBERRY
FT VANCOUVER
RD
Milwaukie
CULLY
THOMPSON
I-5
ST
WALKER
GARDEN
34TH   ST
RD
TILLSTROM RD
190TH
KAISER
RD
HOME RD
AVE
52ND
242ND
AVE
ST
Tigard
112TH
AVE
SAUVIE
ISLAND
RD
POWELL
AVE
BLVD
DIVISION
AVE
RD
147TH
AVE
RD
162ND
BLVD
45TH
102ND
ALDERCREST DR
CORNELL
TERW
ILLIGER
MCGILLIVRAY BLVD
158TH
AVE
YEON AVE
WAY
RD
Mt
GLISAN
UNION
BOONES
OLDSCHOLLSFERRY
HILLSDALE
RD
AVE
RD
BLVD
RD
COLUMBIA
BLVD
BLVD
LESSERRD
20TH   ST
I-205
AVE
Powell
West Union
International
Forest          Park
BELMONT
3OTH
ST
AVE
CANYON
PRESCOTT
Vancouver
135TH AVE
BLVD
BURNSIDE RD
FRUIT
VALLEY RD
AVE
FULLER
RD
BLVD
AVE
MT SCOTT
RD
17TH
AVE
BUTLER
ELLSW
ORTH
LOMBARD
ST
KING
ST
RD
ST
ST
PLAIN
OLESON
HALSEY
WILLAMETTE
BLVD
HWY
49TH
AVE
182ND
RD
I-5
M
URRAY
RD
162ND
AVE
ST
76TH
AVE
BERTHA
WAY
SPRINGVIL LE
BARBUR
AVE
POWELL
82ND
185TH
AVE
136TH
EASTM
AN
HW
Y
8
BLVD
RD
Village
RD
BROADW
AY
COLUMBIA
HWY 500
KILLINGSWORTH
BLVD
LAKE RD
Midway
Jade District
122nd/
Hazelwood
Rosewood/
Glenfair
December 2, 2019
N
0 3,000 6,000 9,000
Feet
E:\Dropbox (BPS Tech Services)\BPS Tech Services Team Folder\gis\projects\Multifamily_Lots\MapApp\34x44_MultiDwelling_Zone_WebMap.mxd
Legend
Proposed Multi-dwelling Zones
Residential Multi-Dwelling 1 (RM1)
Residential Multi-Dwelling 2 (RM2)
Residential Multi-Dwelling 3 (RM3)
Residential Multi-Dwelling 4 (RM4)
Central Residential (RX)
Residential Manufactured Dwelling Park (RMP)
Minimum required site frontage areas
Add Design (d) overlay
Remove Alternative Design Density (a) overlay
City Boundary
Urban Service Boundary
City of Portland, Oregon // Bureau of Planning & Sustainability // Geographic Information System
The information on this map was derived from City of Portland GIS databases. Care was taken in the creation of this map but it is provided "as is".
The City of Portland cannot accept any responsibility for error, omissions or positional accuracy.
City of Portland
Exhibit D: As Amended Zoning Map Designations
Exhibit A:
Findings of Fact Report (as amended)
December 2019

Text amendments to the Zoning Code, which is an implementation tool of the Comprehensive Plan,
must comply with the Comprehensive Plan. “Comply” means that amendments must be evaluated
against the Comprehensive Plan’s applicable goals and policies and on balance be equally or more
supportive of the Comprehensive Plan as a whole than the existing language or designation. (Policy 1.10)
Text amendments to the zoning code also must be found to be consistent with the Metro’s Urban
Growth Management Functional Plan and the Statewide Planning Goals. The 2035 Comprehensive Plan
defines “consistent with” as the subject meets the requirements of, satisfies, or adheres to the
regulations, mandate, or plan listed in the goal or policy. In addition, the amendments must be
consistent with the intent or purpose statement for the base zone, overlay zone, and plan district where
the amendment is proposed, and any plan associated with the regulations. (33.835.040)
1. Finding: As detailed below, the City Council has identified and addressed all relevant and applicable
goals and policies in this document.
2. Finding: Additionally, the Council has considered whether the amendments are consistent with the
intent or purpose statement of the Employment and Industrial Zones (33.140) and the Description
of Use Categories (33.920) that are directly amended by this ordinance.
3. Finding: The City Council has considered the public testimony on this matter and has weighed all
applicable goals and policies has found that the Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning amendments (the FFTZ
amendments) on balance are equally or more supportive of the Comprehensive Plan as a whole
and are consistent with Metro’s Urban Growth Management Functional Plan, the Statewide
Planning Goals, and the applicable purpose statements of the Zoning Code.
As demonstrated by these findings, the FFTZ amendments effectively and efficiently implement the
Comprehensive Plan. Specifically:
The City Council has considered applicable policies to determine that this ordinance on the whole
complies with the 2035 Comprehensive Plan and on balance is equally or more supportive of the
goals and policies of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan than the current regulations. In reaching this
conclusion, City Council has weighed and balanced competing policy directions.
In particular, the Council finds that Goal 4.D with Policies 4.79 and 4.80, requires evaluating and
reducing risk to people and property from natural hazards.  The FFTZ amendments further these
goals and policies because by limiting the risks of storing large volumes of hazardous materials in an
area with high susceptibility to an earthquake. Large fossil fuel terminals represent a risk to people,
property and the natural environments that the City Council finds as a compelling reason to limit
future risk by limiting the size of new facilities and prohibit the expansion of existing facilities.
Continuing to allow an unlimited increase in storage capacity at FFTs in a high risk area would be
less supportive of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan than adopting the FFTZ amendments
The City Council further finds that Policy 6.48 provides direction to limit fossil fuel terminals to what
is necessary to serve the region. The City Council recognizes that Portland’s fossil fuel terminals
handle 90 percent of the fossil fuel for the State of Oregon and Southwest Washington. BPS
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

presented evidence that national petroleum consumption forecast out to 2050 is essentially flat,
which is a continuation of historic trends in Oregon and Washington, during a period of a thriving
economy. In addition, ODOT is forecasting a decline in motor fuel consumption over the medium
term to 2029. The more recent cargo forecasts project a modest growth in volumes, but those
volumes do not exceed the historic peak volumes that were handled by the Portland terminals. No
other evidence of future demand for fossil fuels was submitted in testimony. Therefore, the City
Council finds that the fossil fuel storage capacity at the existing FFTs is sufficient to meet future
needs. These changes support the retention of existing fossil fuel terminals by designating them as
a limited use that allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in upgrades and supports
opportunities for growth through exceptions, such as aviation or renewable fuels. Further, the use
limitations provide flexibility to FFTs to replace and reconfigure existing storage tank capacity to
increase safety. In addition, limiting storage capacity to the existing facilities reduces risk from a
major earthquake, which outweighs the policy direction to provide capacity to accommodate any
potential future increase in fossil fuel consumption, in part, because continuing to consolidate fossil
fuel storage capacity in Portland is counter to resiliency principles that emphasize redundancy and
distributed facilities.
At the same time, the City Council finds that Goal 6.C with Policies 6.20 and 6.36, among others,
provide for the retention and growth of businesses, especially those in the traded sector. However,
the City Council interprets these policies apply to the economy in general, rather than specific types
of business. These changes and restrictions only apply to a narrowly defined new land use category,
Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminals, and do not have a significant effect on the other allowed uses in
industrial and employment zones.  There are no changes proposed to the Comprehensive Plan or
Zoning Map that will impact the overall size or intensity of development in the industrial and
employment areas of Portland. These amendments are narrowly constructed to apply to one class
of businesses that make up a small portion of the city, regional and state economy. Further, these
regulations only limit future expansion of these fossil fuel terminals, with some key exceptions, and
designate these businesses as a limited use that allows their continued operation.
Guilds Lake Industrial Sanctuary (GLIS) Plan policies provide direction to maintain, protect and
enhance businesses in the sanctuary. This plan was adopted in 2001 and does not address the need
for resiliency in a high and medium liquefaction susceptibility area. The City Council interprets these
policies to apply to the GLIS as a whole and not individual businesses. The City Council interprets
the legislative intent of the GLISP is to maintain the area as an industrial sanctuary and to prohibit
incompatible land uses.  The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do they allow for
new incompatible land uses that could undermine the viability of the industrial sanctuary. These
regulations apply to only one type of business that makes up a minority part of the businesses
found in GLIS. The remaining industrial uses to continue to operate under current regulations. The
impact of the limits on fossil fuel terminals is mitigated by designating existing fossil fuel terminals
as a limited use that allows the terminals to continue to operate and make upgrades and supports
limited enhancement through exceptions to the fossil fuel storage capacity restrictions.

Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Part I.  Statewide Planning Goals
State planning statutes require cities to adopt and amend comprehensive plans and land use regulations
in compliance with the Statewide Planning Goals.
The Statewide Planning Goals that apply to Portland are:
Goal 1 Citizen Involvement
Goal 2 Land Use Planning
Goal 5 Natural Resources, Scenic and Historic Areas, and Open Spaces
Goal 6 Air, Water and Land Resource Quality
Goal 7 Areas Subject to Natural Hazards
Goal 8 Recreational Needs
Goal 9 Economic Development
Goal 10 Housing
Goal 11 Public Facilities and Services
Goal 12 Transportation
Goal 13 Energy Conservation
Goal 14 Urbanization
Goal 15 Willamette River Greenway
There are approximately 560 acres of land both within Portland’s municipal boundaries and beyond the
regional urban service boundary that can be classified as rural land. In 1991, as part of Ordinance
164517, the City Council took an exception to Goal 3 and 4 the agriculture and forestry goals. Because of
the acknowledged exception, the following goals do not apply:
Goal 3 Agricultural Lands
Goal 4 Forest Lands
Other Statewide Planning Goals apply only within Oregon’s coastal zone. Since Portland is not within
Oregon’s coastal zone, the following goals do not apply to this decision:
Goal 16 Estuarine Resources
Goal 17 Coastal Shorelands
Goal 18 Beaches and Dunes
Goal 19 Ocean Resources
Goal 1. Citizen Involvement. To develop a citizen involvement program that insures the opportunity
for citizens to be involved in all phases of the planning process.
4. Finding:  The preparation of these amendments has provided numerous opportunities for public
involvement, including:
Concept Phase. In 2016, prior to the initiation of the legislative project, BPS conducted four
stakeholder focus groups meetings. These meetings included participants with a range of
perspectives and experience, including community group representatives, fuel terminal
representatives, environmental organizations, and business organizations. These meetings served
as a forum for discussing issues and potential approaches, and to help inform project staff develop
concepts. In addition to the stakeholder focus groups, BPS staff met with several fuel terminals to
explain the proposal, answer questions, and discuss their individual concerns. These meetings were
needed because antitrust regulations constrained discussion about certain topics, for example
supply chains, in the presence of representatives from other fuel terminals.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Discussion Draft. On June 29, 2016, the Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments Discussion Draft
was published and posted on the Bureau website.
Proposed Draft. On August 12, 2016, the Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Proposed Draft was published
in preparation for the Planning and Sustainability Commission (PSC) review and recommendation.
In support of this process, the BPS website had a project page dedicated to this project, an email
address for submitting testimony. As part of the Proposed Draft publication and legislative process
requirements, the following legal notices were also sent:

• Form 1 35-day Notice
Sent to the Department of Land Conservation and Development (DLCD)
• Legislative Notice
Sent to interested parties, recognized organizations, affected bureaus, TriMet, Metro and
ODOT and published in the Daily Journal of Commerce
• Measure 56 Notice
Required by Ballot Measure 56, this mailed notice was sent to property owners with industrial
or employment base zoning.

The PSC held a public hearing on September 13, 2016. On October 11, 2016, the Planning and
Sustainability Commission voted to recommend the Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments to
City Council, including PSC-recommended modifications to the Proposed Draft. All PSC meetings
were streamed live and available for viewing on the Bureau website.
Recommended Draft. On October 24, 2016 the Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Recommended Draft was published to present the PSC recommendations to City Council. On
October 25, 2016, notice of the City Council hearing on the Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning
Amendments was mailed. The City Council held public hearings on November 10 and 16, 2016, to
receive testimony on the Recommended Draft. On December 8, 2016, the City Council voted to
adopt the Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments.
Ordinance No. 188142 was appealed to the Oregon Land Use Board of Appeals (LUBA).  LUBA
reversed the City’s decision with a number of assignments of error in Columbia Pacific Building
Trades Council et al v. City of Portland, LUBA Case No. 2017-001, July 19, 2017.  LUBA’s decision was
appealed to the Oregon Court of Appeals, LUBA’s decision was affirmed in part and reversed in part
in Columbia Pacific Building Trades Council v. City of Portland, 289 Or App 739 (2018).  The Oregon
Court of Appeals decision was appealed to the Oregon Supreme Court, which denied review, 363
Or 390 (2018). On October 5, 2018, LUBA remanded Columbia Pacific Building Trades Council et al
v. City of Portland, LUBA Case No. 2017-001. The assignments of error that LUBA sustained and
were either affirmed or not challenged on appeal to the Court of Appeals concern insufficient
findings or evidence or misconstruction of law that do not support a conclusion that the decision is
prohibited as a matter of law.
The City of Portland does not have adopted code or policies to establish a decision-making process
for a remand decision. The Council finds that the proposed amendments are a continuation of the
initial legislative proceeding.  Accordingly, the City Council determined that it was appropriate to
bring the ordinance directly back to City Council, given the extensive public process that happened
as part of the initial adoption of the ordinance in 2016 and that no substantive changes to the
Zoning Code are required to address the remand issues. Notification of the November 20, 2019,
City Council public hearing on the remand of Ordinance No. 188142 was sent to the City’s
legislative notice list, the fossil fuel terminal property owners, and the parties to the appeal.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

On November 20, 2019, the Portland City Council held a public hearing and received testimony on
the re-adoption of the fossil fuel terminal zoning restrictions. The written record was left open for
additional testimony until December 2, 2019. The evidentiary record from the initial decision is
incorporated by reference and supplemented by additional evidence provided by BPS staff, the
testimony Council received at the November 20 hearing and the written testimony received by
December 2.
Testimony by the Portland Business Alliance et al raised concerns that there was no public
involvement activities as part of the remand process. As explained above, no specific process is
required by City code or policy. The City Council determined that the regular legislative process,
with a public hearing and opportunity to submit written testimony, would be sufficient to address
the insufficient evidence errors in the remand decision.
Testimony by Zenith Energy raised the concern that there has been two years since Court of
Appeals confirmed the evidentiary deficiencies and that there is no justification for treating this
decision as an emergency ordinance. The City Council has the discretion to declare an emergency.
As evidenced in the oral testimony at the November 20 public hearing, this is an urgent issue that
requires immediate action. The City has determined that an emergency is appropriate here due to
the fact that Portland is currently at risk of a major earthquake.
As noted below in these findings, the FFTZ amendments are consistent with the goals and policies
of Chapter 2 (Community Involvement) of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan and the findings in
response to those goals and policies are incorporated by reference. The events and outreach
strategies summarized here demonstrate consistency with the requirements of Statewide Planning
Goal 1.
Goal 2. Land Use Planning. To establish a land use planning process and policy framework as a basis
for all decisions and actions related to use of land and to assure an adequate factual base for such
decisions and actions.
5. Finding:  The City followed procedures for legislative amendments to the Zoning Code, which are
found in 33.740 (Legislative Procedure). The amendments support Goal 2 because, as
demonstrated by these findings and detailed in this ordinance, the FFTZ amendments were
developed consistent with the Statewide Planning Goals, the Metro Urban Growth Management
Functional Plan, and 2035 Comprehensive Plan.
6. Finding:  On October 16, 2019 BPS filed a 35-day DLCD notice and on October 30, 2019 the City sent
a legislative notice, to notify other government agencies and interested parties that the City would
be reconsidering the remanded ordinance. Multnomah County and the Columbia River Intertribal
Fish Commission testified in support of the ordinance. No other government agencies submitted
testimony.  In the initial adoption of the ordinance, the City received testimony from the Port of
Portland. The City responded to the issues raised by the Port by amending the code to include an
exception for the storage of fossil fuels for exclusive use at an airport, surface passenger terminal,
marine, truck or air freight terminal, drydock, ship or barge servicing facility, rail yard, or as part of a
fleet vehicle servicing facility. The City did not receive any requests from other government
agencies to modify the FFTZ amendments.
7. Finding:  The City Council’s decision is based on the findings in this document, which are based on
the factual evidence presented to the Planning and Sustainability Commission and City Council as
part of the initial adoption in 2016 as well as the evidence presented as part of the reconsideration
of this ordinance that is incorporated in the record that provides the adequate factual base for this
decision.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

8. Finding:  On remand from the Court of Appeals, the remaining assignments of error before LUBA
concern insufficient findings or evidence. LUBA held that the City failed to demonstrate consistency
with former Comprehensive Plan Policies 5.1, Objective C and 5.4, Objective A.  Those policies have
since been repealed from the Comprehensive Plan and replaced with 2035 Comprehensive Plan
policies outlined below.  Next, LUBA held that the City failed to adopt findings addressing
consistency with the Guilds Lake Industrial Sanctuary Plan (GLISP).  As detailed below, the City
Council finds that the FFT Amendments are consistent with the GLISP.   Third, LUBA found that the
City’s finding that demand for fossil fuels will plateau or decline was not supported by substantial
evidence in the record.  As described in the findings for Policy 6.48, BPS staff provided a memo in
the record to provide evidence that the City Council expects that the existing FFT storage capacity,
with the allowed exceptions, is enough to serve the region out to a 2050 planning horizon.  The
Council finds the BPS staff memo compelling and considered the evidence against other assertions
that speculated the demand for fossil fuels would increase.   Still, the Council notes that no single
finding serves as exclusive support for the Council’s decision.  Rather, the Council considers all of
the evidence in the record and determines whether there is an adequate factual base for the
decision.
9. Finding: In addition to understanding the storage capacity necessary to serve the region, the City
Council also considered significant seismic risks that FFTs pose because most of Portland’s
employment and industrial zones are in areas with high to very high levels of liquefaction
susceptibility, as documented by the 2018 DOGAMI Earthquake Regional Impact Analysis. The FFTs
have significant seismic risks because most of the tanks have been constructed without any or only
limited seismic design criteria, as documented by the Portland Bureau of Emergency Management's
2016 Critical Energy Infrastructure Hub Study and the 2012 DOGAMI Earthquake Risk Study for
Oregon's Critical Energy Infrastructure Hub report. Continuing to allow the increase in FFTs in a high
risk area increases the risk to the surrounding industrial district and the Willamette River. The FFTZ
amendments limit future risk by limiting the size of new fossil fuel terminals and prohibiting the
expansion of storage capacity at existing fossil fuel terminals, with limited exceptions for aviation
and renewable fuels. Further, by designating existing FFTs as a limited use, as opposed to a
prohibited nonconforming use, allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in facilities
that reduce the risks and improve their ability to withstand a major earthquake, which ultimately
can make Portland more resilient.
Goal 5. Open Space, Scenic and Historic Areas, and Natural Resources. To protect natural resources
and conserve scenic and historic areas and open spaces.
10. Finding:
Open Spaces. The FFTZ amendments do not include Comprehensive Plan map or Zoning Map
changes. There are no designated open spaces (OS map designations) on any of the existing fossil
fuel terminals (FFTs).
Scenic Resources. In 1991, the City adopted the Scenic Resources Protection Plan and applied a
scenic (s) overlay zone to protect significant scenic resources.  Two of the FFTs (BP West Coast
and NuStar/Shore Terminals) are in a (s) overlay zone.  The scenic resource protections (Chapter
33.480) are not amended by this ordinance and the height limits associated with the (s) overlay
zone will continue to apply to the two FFT sites.
Historic Resources. Historic resources are located throughout the City, but very few are in the
industrial zones. There are no designated Historic Landmarks or Districts in or immediately
adjacent to any of the existing FFTs. Existing historic resource protections are not being amended
(Chapter 33.445).
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Natural Resources. There are significant natural resources in industrial zones, especially along on
the Willamette and Columbia Rivers. Six of the existing FFTs have frontage on the Willamette
River with designated natural resources that are protected by the Greenway Overlay Zone
(Chapters 33.440), which is not amended by this ordinance.
Generally. As noted below in the findings for the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, the FFTZ
amendments are consistent with the goals and policies of Chapter 4 (Design and Development,
including Historic and Cultural Resources) and Chapter 7 (Environment and Watershed Health) of
the 2035 Comprehensive Plan and the findings in response to those goals and policies are
incorporated by reference. Therefore, FFTZ amendments are consistent with the requirements of
Statewide Planning Goal 5.
Goal 6. Air, Water, and Land Resource Quality. To maintain and improve the quality of the air, water
and land resources of the state.
11. Finding:  Goal 6 requires the maintenance and improvement of the quality of air, water, and land
resources.  The State has not adopted administrative rules for complying with Statewide Planning
Goal 6.  The City complies with federal and state environmental standards and statutes, including
the federal Clean Water Act and Clean Air Act.  Existing City regulations including Title 10 (Erosion
Control) and the Stormwater Management Manual will remain in effect and are applicable to future
development. As noted below in the findings for the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, the FFTZ
amendments are consistent with the goals and policies of Chapter 7 (Environment and Watershed
Health) of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan and the findings in response to those goals and policies
are incorporated by reference. Therefore, FFTZ amendments are consistent with the requirements
of Statewide Planning Goal 6.
Goal 7. Areas Subject to Natural Disasters and Hazards. To protect people and property from natural
hazards.
12. Finding:  The State has not adopted administrative rules for complying with Statewide Planning Goal
7. Most of Portland’s employment and industrial zones are in areas with high to very high levels of
liquefaction susceptibility, as documented by the 2018 DOGAMI Earthquake Regional Impact
Analysis. Fossil fuel infrastructure poses considerable risks in the event of a major earthquake.
According to the 2012 DOGAMI Earthquake Risk Study for Oregon's Critical Energy Infrastructure
Hub report, a magnitude 8 or 9 Cascadia Subduction Zone earthquake would impact the CEI Hub
with: ground shaking; liquefaction (soil behavior phenomenon in which a saturated sand softens
and loses strength during strong earthquake ground shaking); lateral spreading (where surficial soil
permanently moves laterally due to earthquake shaking); landslides; co-seismic settlement (where
the ground surface is permanently lowered due to seismic shaking); and bearing capacity failures
(when the foundation soil cannot support the structure it is intended to support).
According to the 2012 DOGAMI report, liquefaction and lateral spreading hazards are of primary
concern to the fossil fuel terminals. As described in the 2012 Oregon State Energy Assurance Plan,
this Critical Energy Infrastructure Hub (CEI Hub) sits on top of very poor soils that are highly
susceptible to earthquake-induced permanent ground deformation. The CEI Hub is adjacent to the
Willamette River and has extensive deposits of highly liquefiable soils. These soils (made of sands,
silts, gravels and clays) have been naturally deposited by river activity as well as been created from
man-made activities, such as hydraulically placed material from river dredging or debris placed as
landfill.
In 2016, the City Council adopt Resolution #37242 to adopt the 2016 Natural Hazard Mitigation
Plan, which identified the Critical Energy Infrastructure Hub as one of two of the City’s most serious
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

vulnerabilities to natural hazards. The 2016 Natural Hazard Mitigation Plan includes Appendix D.
Critical Energy Infrastructure Hub Study that is included in the record for this decision.
The FFTs have significant seismic risks because most of the tanks have been constructed without
any or only limited seismic design criteria on soils with moderate to high levels of liquefaction
susceptibility, as documented by the Portland Bureau of Emergency Management's 2016 Critical
Energy Infrastructure Hub Study and the 2012 DOGAMI Earthquake Risk Study for Oregon's Critical
Energy Infrastructure Hub report. Continuing to allow the increase in FFTs in a high risk area
increases the risk to the surrounding industrial district and the Willamette River. The FFTZ
amendments limit future risk by limiting the size of new fossil fuel terminals and prohibiting the
expansion of storage capacity at existing fossil fuel terminals, with limited exceptions for aviation
and renewable fuels. Further, by designating existing FFTs as a limited use, as opposed to a
prohibited nonconforming use, allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in facilities
that reduce the risks and improve their ability to withstand a major earthquake, which ultimately
can make Portland more resilient.
Testimony from the Portland Business Alliance et al., the Working Water Coalition, the Western
States Petroleum Association and Zenith Energy called for the ordinance to specifically allow for
safety and seismic upgrades in conjunction with expansion of storage capacity, otherwise there will
be fewer tank upgrades. The testimony does not define or explain the economics of upgrades; or
what is meant by “market-based infrastructure changes”; or what are the “business impacts” of
regulating tank capacity; or why FFTs need to expand fossil fuel storage tank capacity in order to
make safety upgrades. The FFTZ amendments designate existing FFTs as a limited use specifically to
continue to operate to supply fossil fuels and to allow for safety and seismic upgrades. Transloading
facilities are a defining characteristic of a Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminal, however, the ordinance the
ordinance does not regulate transloading facilities and only limits new fossil fuel storage tank
capacity. Existing fossil fuel storage tank capacity can be reconfigured. Other aspects of terminal
infrastructure (pipelines, docks, transloading facilities) are not regulated by this ordinance.
Renewable fuels and aviation fuels are exempt from these regulations. Only three storage tank
upgrades with significant capacity expansion have occurred in the past 10 years under development
standards that allowed for the unlimited capacity expansion. Therefore, there is no evidence that
allowing for storage tank capacity expansion is an incentive that will encourage safety and seismic
upgrades. Nothing in state land use law requires local jurisdictions to allow expansion of a use to
make safety upgrades.
Testimony by the Working Waterfront Coalition asserts that it is important for FFTs to invest in
facilities as “unforeseen emergencies continue to exist”. The testimony does not define or explain
what is meant by the phrase “unforeseen emergencies”. To the contrary, the record contains ample
evidence that a major earthquake is a foreseen event that state and local agencies have begun to
prepare for. This ordinance specifically addresses that emergency by limiting expansion of storage
capacity in an area at high risk for liquefaction. The City Council finds that the FFTZ amendments
designate existing FFTs as a limited use specifically to continue to operate to supply fossil fuels and
to allow for safety and seismic upgrades.
Testimony by the Western States Petroleum Association claims that the ordinance will lock existing
infrastructure in place, which prevents efficiency, environmental, and safety improvements. This
assertion is an oversimplification of the ordinance. The testimony does not define or specify what
efficiency, environmental, and safety improvements are prevented by the ordinance. The FFTZ
amendments only regulates fossil fuel storage capacity. The ordinance allows existing tank capacity
to be replaced, and allows, through exceptions, for additional storage capacity for aviation fuel and
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

renewable fuels. Existing FFTs are designated as a limited use specifically to allow them to continue
to operate and make efficiency, environmental, and safety improvements.
Testimony by the Western States Petroleum Association claims that the City is requiring fossil fuel
tanks to be located in liquefaction zones by prohibiting relocation of fossil fuel tanks outside of
mapped liquefaction areas in Portland. The City Council finds that ordinance does not require
locating fossil fuel tanks in liquefaction hazard areas. The ordinance allows existing fossil fuel tank
capacity to continue to operate and even be reconfigured into newer, safer tanks. Further, there is
a map in the record that shows that there are very few areas in Portland’s industrial zones,
including no areas that have marine/harbor access, that are outside of the high-risk liquefaction
areas. Therefore, the ordinance prohibits new FFTs in all industrial and employment zones in
Portland. No evidence has been presented to support the assertion that FFTs have to be located in
Portland.
Testimony by Zenith Energy cites previous (2016) testimony that terminal operators are unable to
invest in upgrades without incentives. No evidence is provided on the economics of upgrades or
what kind of incentives are needed. Current regulations have provided unlimited storage tank
capacity expansion and very few upgrades (three tanks in 2012) have been made in the last 10
years, since the seismic vulnerability of the Critical Energy Infrastructure (CEI) hub has become a
state and local concern. Nothing in State law requires City to provide incentives as an offset to
restrictive land use regulations.
Testimony by Zenith Energy claims that safety upgrades require the construction of new
infrastructure without interrupting service to customers – new storage tanks are needed before old
tanks can be taken out of service. No evidence is provided on storage tank capacity utilization or
available land area at existing FFTs or the length of time that it takes to replace or retrofit a storage
tank that indicates that new storage capacity is needed before existing storage capacity can be
retrofitted or replaced. Recently, Zenith Energy expanded transloading capacity without expanding
storage tank capacity and proposed adding new transloading/intermodal pipeline capacity to utilize
existing storage capacity.
As noted below in the findings for the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, the FFTZ amendments are
consistent with the goals and policies of Chapter 7 (Environment and Watershed Health) of the
2035 Comprehensive Plan and the findings in response to those goals and policies are incorporated
by reference. Therefore, FFTZ amendments are consistent with the requirements of Statewide
Planning Goal 7.
Goal 8. Recreational Needs. To satisfy the recreational needs of the citizens of the state and visitors
and, where appropriate, to provide for the siting of necessary recreational facilities including
destination resorts.
13. Finding:  Goal 8 focuses on the provision of destination resorts. However, it does impose a general
obligation on the City to plan for meeting its residents’ recreational needs: “(1) in coordination with
private enterprise; (2) in appropriate proportions; and (3) in such quantity, quality and locations as
is consistent with the availability of the resources to meet such requirements.”
Goal 8 provides that “Recreation Needs ‐‐ refers to existing and future demand by citizens and
visitors for recreations areas, facilities and opportunities.” Goal 8 also provides that “Recreation
Areas, Facilities and Opportunities ‐‐ provide for human development and enrichment, and include
but are not limited to: open space and scenic landscapes; recreational lands; history, archaeology
and natural science resources; scenic roads and travelers; sports and cultural events; camping,
picnicking and recreational lodging; tourist facilities and accommodations; trails; waterway use
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

facilities; hunting; angling; winter sports; mineral resources; active and passive games and
activities.”
The City of Portland has robust and diverse system of parks, recreation areas and open spaces.
However, there are no parks adjacent to the existing FFTs. Further, the ordinance limits
development for a single type of use, which will reduce negative impacts to parks that are near
industrial areas, especially Forest Park, which is located across Highway 30 from the Northwest
Industrial District where the existing FFTs are located.
As noted below in the findings for the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, the FFTZ amendments are
consistent with the goals and policies of Chapter 8 (Public Facilities and Services) of the 2035
Comprehensive Plan and the findings in response to those goals and policies are incorporated by
reference. Therefore, FFTZ amendments are consistent with the requirements of Statewide
Planning Goal 8.
Goal 9. Economic Development. To provide adequate opportunities throughout the state for a variety
of economic activities vital to health, welfare, and prosperity of Oregon’s citizens.
14. Finding:  Goal 9 requires cities to consider economic activities vital to the health, welfare, and
prosperity of Oregon's citizens. Comprehensive plans for urban areas are required to include,
among other things: an analysis of economic patterns, potentialities, strengths, and deficiencies;
policies concerning economic development; and land use maps that provide for at least an
adequate supply of sites for a variety of industrial and commercial uses.
The 2035 Comprehensive Plan demonstrates compliance with Goal 9. Land needs for a variety of
industrial and commercial uses are identified in the Economic Opportunities Analysis (EOA), which
was adopted (Ordinance 187831) and acknowledged by LCDC on April 25, 2017.
The City’s acknowledged EOA analyzed and demonstrated adequate growth capacity for a diverse
range of employment uses, which are organized into different geographies that represent business
district types with a distinct mix of business sectors and building types. In each of the geographies,
the City analyzed the future land demand for employment growth and the developable land supply
to accommodate that growth. The EOA analyzed future demand for industrial land in four different
broad geographies: Harbor Access Lands (which is includes all or a portion of nine of the existing
FFTs); Harbor and Airport Districts (which includes all or a portion of five of the existing FFTs);
Columbia East (no existing FFTs) and Dispersed Employment (no existing FFTs). The future demand
for industrial land is primarily based on generalized employment growth for the mix of businesses
in these geographies without specific demand for FFT capacity. The EOA future land demand also
includes an estimate for marine terminals based on future cargo/commodity flow forecasts. FFTs
handle “liquid bulks”, which are primarily petroleum products. Estimates of existing cargo capacity
are difficult to obtain, particularly for privately owned marine terminals, like the fossil fuel
terminals. ECONorthwest (2012) prepared an estimate based on historical data for total cargo
volumes for the years 2000 and 2010. For private marine terminals, the assumption was that recent
historical peaks are a reasonable estimate of maximum existing capacity. Based on that capacity
estimate, ECONorthwest found that no additional land is needed for new liquid bulk terminals in
Portland through the year 2040. The EOA demand analysis did not distinguish between types of
liquid bulks, such as specific land needs associated with expanding aviation fuels or non-fossil
mixing fuels. Instead, the EOA analysis addressed overall liquid bulk demand and capacity,
aggregating the increase of some bulk types and reduction in others.  No testimony was submitted
into the record contradicting the EOA analysis.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do they allow for new incompatible land
uses, therefore, these changes do not reduce the employment land base and continue to support a
strong and diverse economy.
Testimony by the Portland Business Alliance et al. raises concern that the FFTZ amendments would
hurt the local economy. The City Council finds that this is an unsupported assertion that provides
no details or explanation as to how this ordinance will hurt the local economy. City Council notes
that BPS staff provided evidence in the Council presentation and the written record that
demonstrates the ordinance has been narrowly written to minimize impacts to the existing fossil
fuel terminals (FFTs), while limiting risk from future natural hazards.
Testimony by the Working Waterfront Coalition asserts that it is important for FFTs to invest in
facilities as “demand continues”. The testimony does not define or explain what is meant by the
phrase “as demand continues”.  BPS presented evidence that national petroleum consumption
forecast out to 2050 is essentially flat, which is a continuation of historic trends in Oregon and
Washington, during a period of a thriving economy. In addition, ODOT is forecasting a decline in
motor fuel consumption over the medium term to 2029. The more recent cargo forecasts project a
modest growth in volumes, but those volumes do not exceed the historic peak volumes that were
handled by the Portland terminals. No other evidence of future demand for fossil fuels was
submitted in testimony. Therefore, the City Council finds that the fossil fuel storage capacity at the
existing FFTs is sufficient to meet future needs.
Testimony by the Western States Petroleum Association claims that the FFTZ amendments will
inflict negative impacts on the local, state, and regional economy. The City Council finds that
“negative impacts” to the economy are not defined or explained. BPS presented evidence that the
fossil fuel storage capacity at the existing FFTs is sufficient to meet future needs. The ordinance
specifically exempts new storage capacity for renewable fuels as a means to support compliance
with DEQ’s Clean Fuels Program and a transition away from fossil fuels.
Testimony by the Western States Petroleum Association claims that the ordinance will introduce a
“host of ambiguities and uncertainties” into the marketplace that is “necessary for a thriving
economy”. The vague terms “ambiguities and uncertainties” are not defined or explained. The FFTZ
amendments designate existing FFTs as a limited use specifically to allow the FFTs to continue to
operate to supply fossil fuels and to allow for safety and seismic upgrades. Transloading facilities
are a defining characteristic of a Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminal, however, the ordinance the ordinance
does not regulate transloading facilities and only limits new fossil fuel storage tank capacity.
Existing fossil fuel storage tank capacity can be reconfigured. Other aspects of terminal
infrastructure (pipelines, docks, transloading facilities) are not regulated by this ordinance. What is
“necessary for a thriving economy” is not defined. BPS staff presented evidence that national
petroleum consumption forecast out to 2050 is essentially flat, which is a continuation of historic
trends in Oregon and Washington, during a period of a thriving economy. In addition, ODOT is
forecasting a decline in motor fuel consumption over the medium term to 2029. Therefore, the City
Council finds that the fossil fuel storage capacity at the existing FFTs is sufficient to support the
regional economy.
Testimony by the Western States Petroleum Association claims that the regional demand for fossil
fuels is an example of a product with inelastic demand. The City Council finds that no evidence is
provided to demonstrate that the demand for fuel is inelastic. BPS staff presented information from
the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis that shows an elastic relationship between fuel prices and
vehicle miles travelled. An elastic demand is one in which demand is responsive to changes in price.
In this case, vehicle miles travelled in an indirect measure of fossil fuel consumption and the chart
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

shows that since 2009, as gas prices have increased, vehicle miles traveled decreased and since
2014, when gas prices decreased, vehicle miles traveled increased. The City Council concurs with
the statement that the ordinance does not limit the regional demand for fuel. However, the
Western States Petroleum Association does not provide any evidence on what the regional demand
for fuel is. BPS presented evidence that national petroleum consumption forecast out to 2050 is
essentially flat, which is a continuation of historic trends in Oregon and Washington, during a
period of a thriving economy. In addition, ODOT is forecasting a decline in motor fuel consumption
over the medium term to 2029. Therefore, the City Council concludes that the fossil fuel storage
capacity at the existing FFTs is sufficient to meet future needs.
As noted below in the findings for the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, the FFTZ amendments are
consistent with the goals and policies of Chapter 6 (Economic Development) of the 2035
Comprehensive Plan and the findings in response to those goals and policies are incorporated by
reference. Therefore, FFTZ amendments are consistent with the requirements of Statewide
Planning Goal 9.
Goal 10. Housing. To provide for the housing needs of citizens of the state.
15. Finding:  Goal 10 specifies that each city must plan for and accommodate needed housing types. As
used in ORS 197.307 “needed housing” means all housing on land zoned for residential use or
mixed residential and commercial use that is determined to meet the need shown for housing
within an urban growth boundary at price ranges and rent levels that are affordable to households
within the county with a variety of incomes, including but not limited to households with low
incomes, very low incomes and extremely low incomes, and includes attached and detached single-
family housing and multiple family housing for both owner and renter occupancy.
Goal 10 requires each city to inventory its buildable residential lands, forecast future needs, and
zone enough buildable land to meet those needs. The FFTZ amendments do not include
comprehensive plan map amendments, and, therefore, do not affect the residential development
capacity of Portland.
As noted below in the findings for the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, the FFTZ amendments are
consistent with the goals and policies of Chapter 5 (Housing) of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan and
the findings in response to those goals and policies are incorporated by reference. Therefore, FFTZ
amendments are consistent with the requirements of Statewide Planning Goal 10.
Goal 11. Public Facilities and Services. To plan and develop a timely, orderly and efficient
arrangement of public facilities and services to serve as a framework for urban and rural development.
16. Finding:  Statewide Planning Goal 11, Public Facilities, requires cities to adopt and update public
facilities plans. Public facilities plans ensure that urban development is guided and supported by
types and levels of water, sewer and transportation facilities appropriate for the needs and
requirements of the urban areas to be serviced, and that those facilities and services are provided
in a timely, orderly and efficient arrangement.
The adopted 2035 Comprehensive Plan includes the Citywide Systems Plan (CSP), which was
adopted (Ordinance 185657) and acknowledged by LCDC on April 25, 2017. The CSP includes the
Public Facilities Plan with information on current and future transportation, water, sanitary sewer,
and stormwater infrastructure needs and projects, consistent with the requirements of Statewide
Planning Goal 11.
The FFTZ amendments do not include comprehensive plan map amendments and do not amend
the CSP. These regulations apply to only one type of use that makes up a minority part of the uses
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

found in Portland’s industrial districts. The remaining industrial uses continue to be regulated under
the current development regulations and do not intensify the development capacity. Therefore,
these changes will not adversely impact the City’s public facilities.
As noted below in the findings for the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, the FFTZ amendments are
consistent with the goals and policies of Chapter 8 (Public Facilities and Services) of the 2035
Comprehensive Plan and the findings in response to those goals and policies are incorporated by
reference. Therefore, FFTZ amendments are consistent with the requirements of Statewide
Planning Goal 11.
Goal 12. Transportation. To provide and encourage a safe, convenient and economic transportation
system.
17. Finding:   Goal 12 is “to provide and encourage a safe, convenient and economic transportation
system.”
The FFTZ amendments maintains Portland’s role as a multimodal freight hub with enhanced freight
access because it does not amend the City’s adopted Transportation System Plan, therefore the
City continues to plan for public infrastructure investments to maintain and strengthen the
multimodal transportation infrastructure in the industrial areas where the FFTs are located. Also,
the ordinance only restricts new fossil fuel storage tank capacity and does not regulate transloading
facilities, docks or pipelines – facilities that are key components of the multimodal freight
transportation system.
Goal 12 requires local governments to adopt transportation plans. The adopted 2035
Comprehensive Plan includes the Transportation System Plan (TSP), which was adopted in three
phases (Ordinance 187832, 188177, and 188957). Phase 1 and 2 was submitted as part Task Four of
Periodic Review; and both were approved by LCDC Order 18 – WKTSK – 001897 on August 8, 2018.
Phase 3 of the Transportation System Plan was adopted as a post-acknowledgement plan
amendment by Ordinance No. 188957, became effective on June 23, 2018. The FFTZ amendments
do not amend the TSP.
OAR 660‐012‐0060 (1) requires:  If an amendment to a functional plan, an acknowledged
comprehensive plan, or a land use regulation (including a zoning map) would significantly affect an
existing or planned transportation facility, then the local government must put in place measures as
provided in section (2) of this rule, unless the amendment is allowed under section (3), (9) or (10) of
this rule. A plan or land use regulation amendment significantly affects a transportation facility if it
would:
(a) Change the functional classification of an existing or planned transportation facility (exclusive of
correction of map errors in an adopted plan);
(b) Change standards implementing a functional classification system; or
(c) Result in any of the effects listed in paragraphs (A) through (C) of this subsection based on
projected conditions measured at the end of the planning period identified in the adopted TSP.
As part of evaluating projected conditions, the amount of traffic projected to be generated
within the area of the amendment may be reduced if the amendment includes an enforceable,
ongoing requirement that would demonstrably limit traffic generation, including, but not
limited to, transportation demand management. This reduction may diminish or completely
eliminate the significant effect of the amendment.
(A) Types or levels of travel or access that are inconsistent with the functional classification of
an existing or planned transportation facility;
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

(B) Degrade the performance of an existing or planned transportation facility such that it
would not meet the performance standards identified in the TSP or comprehensive plan; or
(C) Degrade the performance of an existing or planned transportation facility that is otherwise
projected to not meet the performance standards identified in the TSP or comprehensive
plan.
The FFTZ amendments do not change the functional classification of any existing or proposed
transportation facility, nor do they change the standards implementing a functional classification
system. Therefore, the amendments do not have a significant effect under (a) or (b).
The FFTZ amendments limit one type of use allowed in industrial areas. The remaining industrial
uses continue to be regulated under the current development regulations and do not intensify the
development capacity. Therefore, the amendments do not have a significant effect under (c).
Portland’s Air, Rail, Water Pipeline Plan (ARWP) is adopted into the acknowledged TSP in
compliance with OAR 660-012-0020(2)(e). The ARWP includes information on the location and
extent of existing or planned facilities, as specified by the rule. The ARWP does not have functional
classification or performance standards, and the rule does not require them.
Testimony from the Portland Business Alliance et al., the Working Water Coalition, and the Western
States Petroleum Association raised the concern that the ordinance would force fuels to be
transported by truck and increase vehicle miles travelled and emissions. The City Council finds that
this unsupported assertion provides no details or explanation as to how this ordinance will force a
change in transportation modes. There is no explanation or evidence on future demand, pipeline
capacity utilization, or storage tank utilization or how or why truck traffic would increase. BPS staff
provided evidence in the Council presentation and the written record that demonstrates that there
is a reasonable expectation that the demand for fossil fuels will be flat and that the existing FFT
storage capacity, with the allowed exceptions, will be sufficient to meet the future demand for
fossil fuels.
Furthermore, as noted below in the findings for the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, the FFTZ
amendments are consistent with the goals and policies of Chapter 9 (Transportation) of the 2035
Comprehensive Plan and the findings in response to those goals and policies are incorporated by
reference. Therefore, the FFTZ amendments are consistent with the requirements of Statewide
Planning Goal 12.
Goal 13. Energy Conservation. To conserve energy.
18. Finding:  The State has not adopted specific rules for complying with Statewide Planning Goal 13.
Goal 13 generally requires that land use plans contribute to energy conservation.  The guidelines
refer to land use planning to minimize the depletion of non-renewable sources of energy; to re-use
land; and increase density along high capacity transportation corridors. The FFTZ amendments do
not include map changes, nor do they allow for new incompatible land uses that would change the
City’s development pattern that will have a material impact on energy efficiency.
The City has a few provisions in the Zoning Code to support energy conservation, including energy
efficiency or renewable energy improvements do not trigger nonconforming upgrade
improvements (PCC 33.258); development standards for small, urban-wind turbines (PCC 33.299);
and a requirement that new development in the Central City Plan District must register for green
building certification (PCC 33.510). The FFTZ amendments do not amend any of these
implementing provisions.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Testimony from the Portland Business Alliance et al., the Working Water Coalition, and the Western
States Petroleum Association raised the concern that the ordinance would force fuels to be
transported by truck and increase vehicle miles travelled and emissions. The City Council finds that
this unsupported assertion provides no details or explanation as to how this ordinance will force a
change in transportation modes. There is no explanation or evidence on future demand, pipeline
capacity utilization, or storage tank utilization or how or why truck traffic would increase. BPS staff
provided evidence in the Council presentation and the written record that demonstrates that there
is a reasonable expectation that the demand for fossil fuels will be flat and that the existing FFT
storage capacity, with the allowed exceptions, will be sufficient to meet the future demand for
fossil fuels.
Therefore, the FFTZ amendments are consistent with the requirements of Statewide Planning Goal
13.
Goal 14. Urbanization. To provide for an orderly and efficient transition from rural to urban land use,
to accommodate urban population and urban employment inside urban growth boundaries, to ensure
efficient use of land, and to provide for livable communities.
19. Finding:  Metro is responsible for Goal 14 compliance on behalf of Portland and other cities within
the metropolitan region.  Metro has adopted an Urban Growth Management Functional Plan and
compliance with this plan by constituent cities assures compliance with Goal 14, which is discussed
in Part II of this document and those findings are incorporated by reference.
As discussed above under Goal 9, the FFTZ amendments will not change the employment
development capacity inside the urban growth boundary and the City will continue to have
adequate capacity to accommodate its allocated forecasted growth. Therefore, FFTZ amendments
are consistent with the requirements of Statewide Land Use Goal 14.
Goal 15. Willamette River Greenway. To protect, conserve, enhance and maintain the natural, scenic,
historical, agricultural, economic and recreational qualities of lands along the Willamette River as the
Willamette River Greenway.
20. Finding:  Six of the 11 existing FFTs have frontage on the Willamette River. However, these parcels
will continue to be subject to development regulations for flood plains or natural resources.
Furthermore, no changes to existing protections afforded through the greenway overlay zones are
proposed.
Therefore, FFTZ amendments are consistent with the requirements of Statewide Land Use Goal 15
because they do not change the protections to affected lands within the Willamette River
Greenway Overlay Zone.
Part II.  Metro
Under ORS 268.380 and its Charter, Metro has the authority to adopt regional plans and require city
and county comprehensive plans to comply with regional plan. Metro adopted the Urban Growth
Management Functional Plan and the Regional Transportation Functional Plan under this authority.

Urban Growth Management Functional Plan
In its June 2011 update to its 2010 compliance report Metro found, “The City of Portland is in
compliance with all Urban Growth Management Functional Plan requirements in effect on December
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

15, 2010, except for Title 13, Nature in Neighborhoods.” On January 16, 2013 the City received a letter
from Metro stating that Portland had achieved compliance with Title 13.
Title 1. Housing Capacity. The Regional Framework Plan calls for a compact urban form and a “fair-
share” approach to meeting regional housing needs. Title 1 requires each city and county to maintain
or increase its housing capacity, especially in centers, corridors, main streets, and station
communities, except as provided in section 3.07.120.
21. Finding:  The FFTZ amendments do not reduce housing potential in any part of the City because the
amendments affect a use of industrial land and does not change the designation of residential
lands.
Therefore, the FFTZ amendments are consistent with the requirements of Title 1.
Title 2. Regional Parking Policy. (repealed in 1997)
Title 3. Water Quality and Flood Management. To protect the beneficial water uses and functions and
values of resources within the Water Quality and Flood Management Areas by limiting or mitigating
the impact on these areas from development activities and protecting life and property from dangers
associated with flooding.
22. Finding:  Title 3 calls for the protection of the beneficial uses and functional values of resources
within Metro-defined Water Quality and Flood Management Areas by limiting or mitigating the
impact of development in these areas.  Title 3 establishes performance standards for 1) flood
management; 2) erosion and sediment control; and 3) water quality.  The City has adopted overlay
zones and land use regulations, including Title 10 Erosion Control and the balanced cut-and-fill
standards in Title 24 Building Regulations, that, in the June 2011 update to its 2010 compliance
report, Metro found sufficient to comply with Title 3. This ordinance does not change any of these
overlays or regulations.
FFTs are located in the 100-year floodplain. In the Zoning Code, the City of Portland’s Title 3
program is implemented primarily through the greenway overlay zones, which are unchanged by
these amendments and will ensure any new development will be done in a way to protect people
and property and the functions and values of the floodplain.
Title 4. Industrial and Other Employment Areas. The Regional Framework Plan calls for a strong
regional economy. To improve the economy, Title 4 seeks to provide and protect a supply of sites for
employment by limiting the types and scale of non-industrial uses in Regionally Significant Industrial
Areas (RSIAs), Industrial and Employment Areas. Title 4 also seeks to provide the benefits of
"clustering" to those industries that operate more productively and efficiently in proximity to one
another than in dispersed locations. Title 4 further seeks to protect the capacity and efficiency of the
region’s transportation system for the movement of goods and services and to encourage the location
of other types of employment in Centers, Corridors, Main Streets and Station Communities. The Metro
Council will evaluate the effectiveness of Title 4 in achieving these purposes as part of its periodic
analysis of the capacity of the urban growth boundary.
23. Finding:  The purpose of Title 4 is to maintain a regional supply of existing industrial and
employment land by limiting competing uses for this land. Metro has not adopted a Statewide
Planning Goal 9 economic opportunities analysis for the region, so Title 4 is not based on an
assessment of the land needed for various employment types, nor do the Title 4 maps necessarily
depict lands most suitable to accommodate future job growth. Rather, Title 4 seeks to protect the
manufacturing, warehousing, and distribution of goods within three types of mapped areas by
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

limiting competing uses. These three areas are Regionally Significant Industrial Areas (RSIAs),
Industrial Areas, and Employment Areas.
The existing FFTs are located in the northwest industrial district, which is a designated RSIA. The
RSIA regulations do not include special provisions for FFTs. The other RSIAs in Portland do not have
existing FFTs and new FFTs are prohibited. The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor
do they allow for new incompatible land uses, therefore, the FFTZ amendments are consistent with
the requirements of Metro Title 4.
Title 5. Neighboring Cities (repealed 1997)
Title 6. Centers, Corridors, Station Communities and Main Streets. The Regional Framework Plan
identifies Centers, Corridors, Main Streets and Station Communities throughout the region and
recognizes them as the principal centers of urban life in the region. Title 6 calls for actions and
investments by cities and counties, complemented by regional investments, to enhance this role. A
regional investment is an investment in a new high-capacity transit line or designated a regional
investment in a grant or funding program administered by Metro or subject to Metro’s approval.
24. Finding:  Title 6 establishes eligibility criteria for certain regional investments, and the use of more
flexible trip generation assumptions when evaluating transportation impacts. Title 6 also contains
aspirational activity level targets for different Metro 2040 place types.  This title is incentive-based,
so these findings simply serve to document intent. There are no specific mandatory compliance
standards in Title 6 that apply to this ordinance.
The existing FFTs are not located in designated Title 6 areas, therefore this title does not apply.
Title 7. Housing Choice. The Regional Framework Plan calls for establishment of voluntary affordable
housing production goals to be adopted by local governments and assistance from local governments
on reports on progress towards increasing the supply of affordable housing. It is the intent of Title 7 to
implement these policies of the Regional Framework Plan.
25. Finding:  Title 7 addresses housing choice. Metro adopted voluntary affordable housing goals for
each city and county in the region for the years 2001 to 2006, but never updated them. Title 7 does
not apply. The FFTZ amendments change the City’s industrial zones and do not impact the City of
Portland’s residential development capacity or affordable housing programs.
Title 8. Compliance Procedures. Title 8 addresses compliance procedures and establishes a process
for ensuring city or county compliance with requirements of the Urban Growth Management
Functional Plan. A city or county proposing an amendment to a comprehensive plan or land use
regulation shall submit the proposed amendment to METRO at least 35 days prior to the first
evidentiary hearing on the amendment.
26. Finding: On October 16, 2019 BPS filed a 35-day DLCD notice and on October 30, 2019 the City sent
a legislative notice, to notify other government agencies, including Metro, that the City would be
reconsidering the remanded ordinance. Metro was provided with the 35-day DLCD notice and the
City’s standard legislative notice. Title 8 also requires the City to provide findings of compliance
with the Urban Growth Management Functional Plan, as described here. All applicable
requirements of Title 8 have been met.
Title 9. Performance Measures. (repealed in 2010)
Title 10. Functional Plan Definitions. Title 10 contains definitions. When 2035 Comprehensive Plan
uses a term found in Title 10 either the term has the same meaning found in Title 10, or the difference
is explained.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

27. Finding: The FFTZ amendments do not change any definitions in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan that
are also found in Title 10. All applicable requirements of Title 10 have been met.
Title 11. Planning for New Urban Areas. (not directly applicable)
Title 12. Protection of Residential Neighborhoods. Existing neighborhoods are essential to the
success of the 2040 Growth Concept. The intent of Title 12 of the Urban Growth Management
Functional Plan is to protect the region’s residential neighborhoods. The purpose of Title 12 is to help
implement the policy of the Regional Framework Plan to protect existing residential neighborhoods
from air and water pollution, noise, and crime and to provide adequate levels of public services.
28. Finding:  Title 12 addresses protection of residential neighborhoods. This title largely restricts
Metro’s authority to plan and regulate density in single-family neighborhoods.  Further, the 2035
Comprehensive Plan does not employ any of the optional provisions of Title 12. The FFTZ
amendments were originated by the City’s legislative process and do not affect residential
neighborhoods.  Therefore, this title does not apply to this ordinance.
Title 13. Nature in Neighborhoods. The purposes of this program are to (1) conserve, protect, and
restore a continuous ecologically viable streamside corridor system, from the streams’ headwaters to
their confluence with other streams and rivers, and with their floodplains in a manner that is
integrated with upland wildlife habitat and with the surrounding urban landscape; and (2) to control
and prevent water pollution for the protection of the public health and safety, and to maintain and
improve water quality throughout the region.
29. Finding:  Title 13 is expressly intended to provide a minimum baseline level of protection for
identified Habitat Conservation Areas. Local jurisdictions may achieve substantial compliance with
Title 13 using regulatory and/or non-regulatory tools.  The City of Portland implements Title 13
through its adopted Natural Resources Inventory (NRI) and subsequent protection measures
through the environmental overlay zones, which Metro has found to be in substantial compliance
with Title 13.
No changes to the environmental or greenway overlay zones are proposed as part of this project.
Therefore, FFTZ amendments are consistent with the requirements of Title 13.
Title 14. Urban Growth Management Plan. Title 14 addresses the regional urban growth boundary.
Since this ordinance does not require, nor initiate, a boundary change, Title 14 does not apply.
Summary, Urban Growth Management Functional Plan Findings
30. Finding:  The Metro Title 10 definition of comply or compliance means “substantial” rather than
absolute compliance. "Substantial compliance" means city comprehensive plans and implementing
ordinances, on the whole, conform with the purposes of the performance standards in the
functional plan and any failure to meet individual performance standard requirements is technical
or minor in nature.
For the facts and reasons stated above this ordinance substantially complies with all Urban Growth
Management Functional Plan requirements applicable to the FFTZ amendments.
Regional Transportation Functional Plan
The Regional Transportation Functional Plan (RTFP) implements the goals, objectives and policies of the
Regional Transportation Plan (RTP). Local implementation of the RTP by cities and counties are carried
out in their comprehensive plans, transportation system plans (TSPs), other land use regulations and
transportation project development.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

31. Finding: The City Council finds that there is no statutory or code requirement that the Council
consider and demonstrate whether the proposed amendments are consistent with the RTFP.
However, to the extent the demonstrating compliance is necessary, the Council finds that the
proposed amendments are compliant with the RTFP as discussed below.
32. Finding: Titles 1-4 address transportation system design, development of transportation system
plans, transportation project development and parking management. These titles concern public
transportation projects design and system plans and do not address development on private land.
These titles do not apply.
Title 5. Amendment of Comprehensive Plans. Title 5 addresses factors that a city or county needs to
consider when amending their comprehensive plan or transportation system plan. Cities are required to
consider the transportation strategies, such as transit, bicycle and pedestrian system improvements, as
part of the analysis to determine if the change will result in a significant effect on the transportation
system.
33. Finding: The FFTZ amendments do not change the functional classification of any existing or
proposed transportation facility, nor do they change the standards implementing a functional
classification system.
The FFTZ amendments limit one type of use allowed in industrial areas. The remaining industrial
uses continue to be regulated under the current development regulations and do not intensify the
development capacity. Therefore, the amendments do not have a significant effect on the
transportation system.
Testimony from the Portland Business Alliance et al., the Working Water Coalition, and the Western
States Petroleum Association raised the concern that the ordinance would force fuels to be
transported by truck and increase vehicle miles travelled and emissions. The City Council finds that
this unsupported assertion provides no details or explanation as to how this ordinance will force a
change in transportation modes. There is no explanation or evidence on future demand, pipeline
capacity utilization, or storage tank utilization or how or why truck traffic would increase. BPS staff
provided evidence in the Council presentation and the written record that demonstrates that there
is a reasonable expectation that the demand for fossil fuels will be flat and that the existing FFT
storage capacity, with the allowed exceptions, will continue to meet the future demand for fossil
fuels. Therefore, the City Council concludes that the existing FFT storage capacity is sufficient, and
there is no evidence that the FFTZ amendments will result in an increase in truck traffic, vehicle
miles travelled or emissions.
Furthermore, as noted below in the findings for the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, the FFTZ
amendments are consistent with the goals and policies of Chapter 9 (Transportation) of the 2035
Comprehensive Plan and the findings in response to those goals and policies are incorporated by
reference. Therefore, the FFTZ amendments are consistent with the requirements of Title 5.
Part III.  Portland’s Comprehensive Plan
Portland’s 2035 Comprehensive Plan was adopted as part of Task Four of Periodic Review.  Task Four
was adopted by Ordinance No. 187832 on June 15, 2016.  The 2035 Comprehensive Plan was amended
as part of Task Five of Periodic Review, which was adopted by Ordinance No. 188177 on December 21,
2016.  Both ordinances were made effective on May 24, 2018 by Ordinance No. 188695, and both Tasks
Four and Five were approved by LCDC Order 18 – WKTSK – 001897 on August 8, 2018.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

34. Finding:  The City Council has identified the following guiding principles, goals and policies to be
applicable to the FFTZ amendments.
Guiding Principles
The 2035 Comprehensive Plan adopted five “guiding principles” in addition to the goals and policies in a
comprehensive plan. These principles recognize that implementation of the plan needs to be balanced,
integrated and multi-disciplinary, and the influence of each principle helps to shape the overall all policy
framework of the plan.
35.  Finding:  The City Council interprets the requirement in Policy 1.10.a to demonstrate how the FFTZ
amendments comply with the Guiding Principles as one that requires a general overview discussion
that does not require addressing specific language in specific policies.
The FFTZ amendments further these guiding principles as described below.
Economic Prosperity. Support a low-carbon economy and foster employment growth,
competitiveness and equitably distributed household prosperity.
36. Finding:  The City Council interprets this guiding principle to support a robust and resilient regional
economy, thriving local businesses and growth in living-wage jobs and household prosperity. The
FFTZ amendments support a low-carbon economy by providing an exception for additional storage
capacity for non-fossil, renewable fuels. It fosters employment growth, competitiveness, and
contributes to more equitably distributed household prosperity because the regulations are
narrowly crafted to apply to one type of use and maintains the development capacity of Portland’s
industrial areas. Further, the FFTZ amendments preserve existing industrial sites because the
ordinance does not include comprehensive plan or zoning map changes. Finally, the ordinance does
allow FFTs to grow and intensify their level of use by only regulating fossil fuel storage tank capacity
and allowing exceptions for aviation and renewable fuels.
As noted elsewhere in the findings, the FFTZ amendments are consistent with Statewide Planning
Goal 9 (Economic Development) and the goals and policies of Chapter 6 (Economic Development)
of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan and the findings in response to those goals and policies are
incorporated by reference.
Human Health. Avoid or minimize negative health impacts and improve opportunities for Portlanders
to lead healthy, active lives.
37. Finding:  The FFTZ amendments further the objectives to avoid or minimize negative health impacts
associated with FFTs by reducing the risks associated with a major earthquake. Continuing to allow
the increase in FFTs in a high risk area increases the risk to the surrounding industrial district, the
Willamette River and Portland as a whole. The first step in making the current situation better is to
ensure that the situation does not get worse by continuing to allow the unlimited increase in fossil
fuel terminal storage tank capacity in a moderate to high risk. The FFTZ amendments are a
regulatory approach that will limit the size of new fossil fuel terminals and prohibit the expansion of
storage capacity at existing fossil fuel terminals, with limited exceptions for aviation and renewable
fuels, which will be an improvement compared to the current regulations that allow for unlimited
growth in fossil fuel terminals. Further, by designating existing FFTs as a limited use allows the
terminals to continue to operate and invest in facilities that reduce the risks and improve their
ability to withstand a major earthquake, which can minimize health impacts in the event of a major
earthquake.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Environmental Health. Weave nature into the city and foster a healthy environment that sustains
people, neighborhoods, and fish and wildlife. Recognize the intrinsic value of nature and sustain the
ecosystem services of Portland’s air, water and land.
38. Finding: The FFTZ amendments foster a healthy environment and sustain the ecosystem services of
Portland’s air, water and land by reducing the risk associated with a major earthquake. The first
step in making the current situation better is to ensure that the situation does not get worse by
continuing to allow the unlimited increase in fossil fuel terminal storage tank capacity in a high risk
area. The FFTZ amendments are a regulatory approach that will limit the size of new fossil fuel
terminals and prohibit the expansion of storage capacity at existing fossil fuel terminals, with
limited exceptions for aviation and renewable fuels, which will be an improvement compared to
the current regulations that allow for unlimited growth in fossil fuel terminals. Further, by
designating existing FFTs as a limited use allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in
facilities that reduce the risks and improve their ability to withstand a major earthquake, which can
minimize environmental impacts in the event of a major earthquake. No changes to the
environmental or greenway overlay zones are proposed as part of this project, therefore the
natural resource values and functions will be sustained.
As noted elsewhere in the findings, the FFTZ amendments are consistent with Statewide Planning
Goal 5 (Natural Resources) and the goals and policies of Chapter 4 (Design and Development,
including Historic and Cultural Resources) and Chapter 7 (Environment and Watershed Health) of
the 2035 Comprehensive Plan and the findings in response to those goals and policies are
incorporated by reference.
Equity. Promote equity and environmental justice by reducing disparities, minimizing burdens,
extending community benefits, increasing the amount of affordable housing, affirmatively furthering
fair housing, proactively fighting displacement, and improving socio-economic opportunities for
under-served and under-represented populations. Intentionally engage under-served and under-
represented populations in decisions that affect them. Specifically recognize, address and prevent
repetition of the injustices suffered by communities of color throughout Portland’s history.
39. Finding:  This guiding principle provides a framework to ensure Portlanders more equitably share in
the benefits and burdens of growth and development. A fundamental purpose of the FFTZ
amendments is to reduce the risks associated with a major earthquake. Continuing to allow the
increase in FFTs in a high risk area increases the risk to Portland’s environment, especially the
Willamette River. The first step in making the current situation better is to ensure that the situation
does not get worse by continuing to allow the unlimited increase in fossil fuel terminal storage tank
capacity in a moderate to high risk. The FFTZ amendments are a regulatory approach that will limit
the size of new fossil fuel terminals and prohibit the expansion of storage capacity at existing fossil
fuel terminals, with limited exceptions for aviation and renewable fuels, which will be an
improvement compared to the current regulations that allow for unlimited growth in fossil fuel
terminals. Further, by designating existing FFTs as a limited use allows the terminals to continue to
operate and invest in facilities that reduce the risks and improve their ability to withstand a major
earthquake, which can minimize environmental impacts in the event of a major earthquake.
The amendments also maintain socio-economic opportunities for under-served and under-
represented populations because the regulations are narrowly crafted to apply to one type of use
and maintains the development capacity of Portland’s industrial areas, which is a good source of
middle-wage jobs for people without college degrees.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Resilience. Reduce risk and improve the ability of individuals, communities, economic systems, and
the natural and built environments to withstand, recover from, and adapt to changes from natural
hazards, human-made disasters, climate change, and economic shifts.
40. Finding:  The 2035 Comprehensive Plan describes resilience as “reducing the vulnerability of our
neighborhoods, businesses, and built and natural infrastructure to withstand challenges –
environmental, economic and social – that may result from major hazardous events.” Most of
Portland’s employment and industrial zones are in areas with high to very high levels of liquefaction
susceptibility, as documented by the 2018 DOGAMI Earthquake Regional Impact Analysis. Fossil fuel
infrastructure poses considerable risks in the event of a major earthquake. The FFTZ amendments
support this principle by taking the first step in making Portland more resilient is to stop increasing
the risk. The FFTs have significant seismic risks because most of the tanks have been constructed
without any or only limited seismic design criteria on soils with moderate to high levels of
liquefaction susceptibility, as documented by the Portland Bureau of Emergency Management's
2016 Critical Energy Infrastructure Hub Study and the 2012 DOGAMI Earthquake Risk Study for
Oregon's Critical Energy Infrastructure Hub report. Continuing to allow the increase in FFTs in a high
risk area increases the risk to the surrounding industrial district, the Willamette River and Portland
as a whole. The FFTZ amendments limit future risk by limiting the size of new fossil fuel terminals
and prohibiting the expansion of storage capacity at existing fossil fuel terminals, with limited
exceptions for aviation and renewable fuels. Further, by designating existing FFTs as a limited use,
as opposed to a prohibited nonconforming use, allows the terminals to continue to operate and
invest in facilities that reduce the risks and improve their ability to withstand a major earthquake,
which ultimately can make Portland more resilient.
Testimony from the Portland Business Alliance et al. raised the concern that the ordinance would
hinder the city’s climate and safety goals. The City Council finds that this unsupported assertion
provides no details or explanation as to how this ordinance will hinder climate or safety goals. BPS
staff provided evidence in the Council presentation and the written record that demonstrates the
ordinance has been narrowly written to support climate and safety goals. Specifically, the
ordinance exempts new storage capacity for non-fossil, renewable fuels and designates the existing
FFTs as a limited use to allow those businesses to continue to operate and make safety
improvements.
Testimony from the Portland Business Alliance et al. raised the concern that the ordinance needs to
explicitly allow the development of infrastructure that is necessary to transition towards lower
emission fuel sources such as blending tanks and new intermodal links. No explanation or evidence
was provided to support the assertion that additional tanks are needed. New blending tanks that
contain more than 5% fossil fuel are not allowed by the ordinance, but new storage tanks for
renewable fuels are allowed. New intermodal links are not regulated by this ordinance.
Testimony from the Portland Business Alliance et al. and Zenith Energy raised the concern that the
decision to deny a permit application for pipes that would have been used exclusively for clean
fuels undermines the ordinance’s exemption for renewable fuels, because the infrastructure for
renewable fuels is essentially the same for fossil fuels. The City Council finds that the Office of
Community Technology decision is in regards to a pipe in the public right-of-way and is based on
the City’s franchise agreement with Zenith, and is not a land use decision and is not an indicator as
to how the City will make future land use decisions that involve this ordinance.
Testimony by the Western States Petroleum Association claims that the ordinance will inflict
significant impacts on the ability to supply fuel and change fuel types as the region grows,
technology advances, and fuel standards change. “Significant impacts” are not defined or
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

supported by evidence. The letter does not explain how technology advances and fuel standard
changes will create the need for additional fossil fuel storage capacity. The ordinance specifically
exempts new storage capacity for renewable fuels as a means to support DEQ’s Clean Fuels
Program.
Testimony by the Western States Petroleum Association claims that the ordinance will inflict
negative impacts on the ability to transition energy sources. The testimony does not define or
explain what are the “negative impacts” or what is needed to transition energy resources. The
ordinance specifically exempts new storage capacity for renewable fuels as a means to support
compliance with DEQ’s Clean Fuels Program and a transition away from fossil fuels.
Testimony by Zenith Energy claims that safety upgrades require the construction of new
infrastructure without interrupting service to customers – new storage tanks are needed before old
tanks can be taken out of service. No evidence is provided on storage tank capacity utilization or
available land area at existing FFTs or the length of time that it takes to replace or retrofit a storage
tank that indicates that new storage capacity is needed before existing storage capacity can be
retrofitted or replaced. Recently, Zenith Energy expanded transloading capacity without expanding
storage tank capacity and proposed adding new transloading/intermodal pipeline capacity to utilize
existing storage capacity.
Testimony by NW Natural raised concerns that the definition of renewable fuels was not clear. The
Remand Report (Exhibit B) has been revised to clarify the legislative intent that renewable fuels are
those fuels derived from biomass (plant or animal material), such as recycled cooking oil, soybean
oil, or animal fats; renewable natural gas/biogas is fuel captured from the waste stream, such as
methane from landfills, waste water treatment plants, and agricultural or food waste, but does not
include methane and other hydrocarbons produced from fossil fuels; and renewable hydrogen is
hydrogen produced using renewable energy derived from wind power sited in ecologically
responsible ways, solar, existing and low-impact hydroelectric, geothermal, biogas (including biogas
produced from biomass), and ocean/wave technology sources.
As noted elsewhere in these findings, the FFTZ amendments are consistent with Statewide Planning
Goal 7 (Natural Hazards) and the goals and policies of Chapter 7 (Environment and Watershed
Health) of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan and the findings in response to those goals and policies
are incorporated by reference.
Chapter 1: The Plan
Goal 1.A: Multiple goals
Portland’s Comprehensive Plan provides a framework to guide land use, development, and public facility
investments. It is based on a set of Guiding Principles that call for integrated approaches, actions, and
outcomes that meet multiple goals to ensure Portland is prosperous, healthy, equitable, and resilient.
41. Finding:  The FFTZ amendments are an amendment to the Zoning Code and do not amend the 2035
Comprehensive Plan. As noted above, FFTZ amendments are consistent with the guiding principles
of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan. As part of an integrated approach to meet multiple goals, the City
Council has considered, weighed and balanced applicable policies, as described on page HTU-5 of
the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, to determine that this ordinance on the whole complies with the
2035 Comprehensive Plan. As described below, the City Council’s decision to adopt the FFTZ
amendments have considered the multiple goals of the comprehensive plan, including the guiding
principles, to determine that the adoption of this ordinance will ensure that Portland is prosperous,
healthy, equitable, and resilient by minimizing the risk posed by fossil fuel terminals.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Goal 1.B: Regional partnership. Portland’s Comprehensive Plan acknowledges Portland’s role within
the region, and it is coordinated with the policies of governmental partners.
42. Finding:  The findings show how the amendments are consistent with Metro’s Urban Growth
Management Functional Plan and the Statewide Planning Goals, including Goal 2 which requires
coordination. In 2016, as part of the original adoption process, Metro, TriMet, and other state
agencies received notice of the proposed FFTZ amendments from the 35-day DLCD notice and the
City’s legislative notice. In 2019, as part of the re-adoption of the remanded ordinance, the City
posted a new 35-day DLCD notice and sent a legislative notice to government partners for the
November 20, 2019 City Council hearing.
Goal 1.C: A well-functioning plan. Portland’s Comprehensive Plan is effective, its elements are
aligned, and it is updated periodically to be current and to address mandates, community needs, and
identified problems.
43. Finding:  The City Council defines “effective” as being successful in producing a desired or intended
result. The desired or intended result is embodied in the Guiding Principles and goals and policies of
the 2035 Comprehensive Plan. These findings demonstrate how the FFTZ amendments are
consistent with the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, including advancing multiple goals. These changes
represent updating regulatory implementation tools that respond to community needs and
identified problems, especially in addressing the considerable risks fossil fuel terminals pose in the
event of a major earthquake, as documented by the Portland Bureau of Emergency Management's
Critical Energy Infrastructure Hub Study (2016).
Goal 1.D: Implementation tools. Portland’s Comprehensive Plan is executed through a variety of
implementation tools, both regulatory and non-regulatory. Implementation tools comply with the
Comprehensive Plan and are carried out in a coordinated and efficient manner. They protect the
public’s current and future interests and balance the need for providing certainty for future
development with the need for flexibility and the opportunity to promote innovation.
44. Finding:  The City Council interprets this goal to mean that the first step in making the current
situation better is to ensure that the situation does not get worse. Continuing to allow the increase
in storage tank capacity in FFTs in a high risk area increases the risk to the surrounding industrial
district and the Willamette River. The FFTZ amendments are changes to the Zoning Code, which is a
primary implementation tool. The City Council finds that the public’s current and future interests
are embodied in the Vision and Guiding Principles that address prosperity, human and
environmental health, equity and resilience. In the event of a major earthquake, fossil fuel
terminals pose considerable risks to all of those interests, as documented by the Portland Bureau of
Emergency Management's Critical Energy Infrastructure Hub Study (2016). Continuing to allow the
unlimited increase in storage capacity at FFTs in a high risk area does not protect the public’s
current or future interests. The FFTZ amendments are a regulatory approach that will limit the size
of new fossil fuel terminals and prohibit the expansion of storage capacity at existing fossil fuel
terminals, with limited exceptions for aviation and renewable fuels, which will be an improvement
compared to the current regulations that allow for unlimited growth in FFTs.
The Zoning Code amendments change development standards and limit future expansion of
storage capacity at FFTs, which may create uncertainty for the existing terminals. However, the
uncertainty is mitigated by designating the existing FFTs as a limited use, as opposed to a prohibited
or non-conforming use, that allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in upgrades, as
well as supporting opportunities for enhancement through exceptions, such as aviation or
renewable fuels, to the storage capacity restrictions. If the existing FFTs had been designated as a
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

prohibited use, as in the Proposed Draft of the amendments, then the existing FFTs would be
nonconforming uses, which in some cases has been a barrier to obtaining financing for
improvements and upgrades.
The City Council defines “flexibility” as a capability to adapt to new, different, or changing
requirements and “innovation” as the introduction of something new. The amendments
incorporate flexibility and innovation by designating the existing FFTs as a limited use that allows
the terminals to continue to operate and invest in upgrades, as well as supporting opportunities for
enhancement for aviation or renewable fuels among other exceptions.
Goal 1.E: Administration. Portland’s Comprehensive Plan is administered efficiently and effectively
and in ways that forward the intent of the Plan. It is administered in accordance with regional plans
and state and federal law.
45. Finding:  The 2035 Comprehensive Plan complies with state and federal law and is not amended by
this ordinance. The FFTZ amendments add clear and objective regulations to the Zoning Code that
can be administered by the City in an efficient and effective way that minimizes future risk and
allows FFTs to invest in safety upgrades to decrease risk over time. These findings demonstrate how
the FFTZ amendments are consistent with the intent of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan. As noted
above, the findings show how the amendments are consistent with Metro’s Urban Growth
Management Functional Plan and the Statewide Planning Goals. The regulations are focused on
what the City has jurisdiction over – land use regulation for public health and safety – and does not
exceed its authority into areas covered by state and federal law, such railroads and interstate
commerce.
The Comprehensive Plan
Policy 1.1. Comprehensive Plan elements. Maintain a Comprehensive Plan that includes these
elements:
• Vision and Guiding Principles. The Vision is a statement of where the City aspires to be in
2035. The Guiding Principles call for decisions that meet multiple goals to ensure Portland is
prosperous, healthy, equitable, and resilient.
• Goals and policies. The goals and policies of the Comprehensive Plan, including the Urban
Design Framework, provide the long-range planning direction for the development and
redevelopment of the city.
• Comprehensive Plan Map. The Comprehensive Plan Map is the official long-range planning
guide for spatially defining the desired land uses and development in Portland. The
Comprehensive Plan Map is a series of maps, which together show the boundaries of
municipal incorporation, the Urban Service Boundary, land use designations, and the
recognized boundaries of the Central City, Gateway regional center, town centers, and
neighborhood centers.
• List of Significant Projects. The List of Significant Projects identifies the public facility projects
needed to serve designated land uses through 2035. including expected new housing and jobs.
It is based on the framework provided by a supporting Public Facilities Plan (PFP). The
Citywide Systems Plan (CSP) is the City’s public facilities plan. The Transportation System Plan
(TSP) includes the transportation-related list of significant projects. The list element of the TSP
is also an element of the Comprehensive Plan.

Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

• Transportation policies, street classifications, and street plans. The policies, street
classifications, and street plan maps contained in the Transportation System Plan (TSP) are an
element of the Comprehensive Plan. Other parts of the TSP function as a supporting
document, as described in Policy 1.2.
46. Finding:  The FFTZ amendments do not include changes to any of the Comprehensive Plan elements
The FFTZ amendments do not change the List of Significant Projects, nor do they change policies,
street classifications, or street plan maps contained in the Transportation System Plan (TSP).
Supporting Documents
Policy 1.2. Comprehensive Plan supporting documents. Maintain and periodically update the
following Comprehensive Plan supporting documents.
1. Inventories and analyses. The following inventories and analyses are supporting documents
to the Comprehensive Plan:
• Economic Opportunities Analysis (EOA)
• Buildable Lands Inventory (BLI)
• Natural Resource Inventory (NRI)
• Housing Needs Analysis (HNA)
47. Finding:  The FFTZ amendments were developed consistent with the supporting documents of the
adopted 2035 Comprehensive Plan. The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do
they allow for new incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes do not impact the industrial
land designated in Portland and do not impact the employment development capacity identified in
the EOA and the BLI.
The FFTZ amendments do not change the NRI or the implementing environmental or greenway
overlay zones.
The FFTZ amendments do not impact residential land and do not change the Housing Needs
Analysis.
2. Public Facilities Plan. The Public Facilities Plan (PFP) is a coordinated plan for the provision of
urban public facilities and services within Portland’s Urban Services Boundary. The Citywide
Systems Plan (CSP) is the City’s public facilities plan.
48. Finding:  As demonstrated in the findings for Statewide Planning Goal 11, the FFTZ amendments do
not include map changes, nor do they allow for new incompatible land uses, therefore, these
changes do not impact the provision of public services and are consistent with the adopted
Citywide Systems Plan (CSP).  The CSP, which was adopted (Ordinance 185657) and acknowledged
by LCDC on April 25, 2017, includes the Public Facilities Plan with information on current and future
transportation, water, sanitary sewer, and stormwater infrastructure needs and projects, consistent
with the requirements of Statewide Planning Goal 11.
The FFTZ amendments do not amend the Citywide System Plan, therefore the City continues to
plan for public infrastructure investments to maintain and strengthen the infrastructure in the
northwest industrial area where the FFTs are located. As noted below in the findings for goals and
policies of Chapter 8 (Public Facilities and Services), which are incorporated by reference, the FFTZ
amendments are consistent with the CSP.

Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

3. Transportation System Plan (TSP). The TSP is the detailed long-range plan to guide
transportation system functions and investments. The TSP ensures that new development and
allowed land uses are consistent with the identified function and capacity of, and adopted
performance measures for, affected transportation facilities. The TSP includes a financial plan
to identify revenue sources for planned transportation facilities included on the List of
Significant Projects. The TSP is the transportation element of the Public Facilities Plan. Certain
components of the TSP are elements of the Comprehensive Plan. See Policy 1.1.
49. Finding:  As demonstrated in the findings for Statewide Planning Goal 12 (Transportation) and the
goals and policies of Chapter 9 (Transportation), the FFTZ amendments do not include map
changes, nor do they allow for new incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes do not impact
the transportation system. The FFTZ amendments do not amend the Transportation System Plan,
therefore the City continues to plan for public infrastructure investments to maintain and
strengthen the multimodal transportation infrastructure in the northwest industrial area where the
FFTs are located.
4. School Facility Plans. School facility plans that were developed in consultation with the City,
adopted by school districts serving the City, and that meet the requirements of ORS 195 are
considered supporting documents to the Comprehensive Plan.
50. Finding: The FFTZ amendments apply to only one type of industrial use that makes up a small part
of the businesses found in Portland’s industrial districts, therefore, these changes will not impact
school facility plans.
Implementation tools
Policy 1.3. Implementation tools subject to the Comprehensive Plan. Maintain Comprehensive Plan
implementation tools that are derived from, and comply with, the Comprehensive Plan.
Implementation tools include those identified in policies 1.4 through 1.9.
Policy 1.4. Zoning Code. Maintain a Zoning Code that establishes the regulations that apply to various
zones, districts, uses, and development types.
51. Finding:  The FFTZ amendments include Zoning Code amendments that create a new use category
(bulk fossil fuel terminals) and applies it to the base zones. The definition of the use limits the size
of new fossil fuel terminals and prohibits the expansion of fossil fuel storage capacity at existing
fossil fuel terminals, with limited exceptions for aviation and renewable fuels. The FFTZ regulations
designate existing FFTs as a limited use, which allows the terminals to continue to operate and
invest in facilities that reduce the risks and improve their ability to withstand a major earthquake.
Further, the use limitations (33.140.100.B.17.a) provide flexibility to FFTs to replace and
reconfigure existing storage tank capacity to increase safety.
Policy 1.5 Zoning Map. Maintain a Zoning Map that identifies the boundaries of various zones,
districts, and other special features.
52. Finding:  The FFTZ amendments do not include Zoning Map amendments. This policy does not
apply.
Policy 1.6 Service coordination agreements. Maintain coordination agreements with local
governments of adjoining jurisdictions concerning mutual recognition of urban service boundaries;
special service districts concerning public facilities and services within Portland’s Urban Services
Boundary; and public school districts concerning educational facilities within Portland's Urban Services
Boundary.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy 1.7 Annexations. Provide a process incorporating urban and urbanizable land within the City's
Urban Services Boundary through annexation. See policies 8.11-8.19 for service extension
requirements for annexations.
Policy 1.8 Urban renewal plans. Coordinate Comprehensive Plan implementation with urban renewal
plans and implementation activities. A decision to adopt a new urban renewal district, adopt or amend
goals and objectives that will guide investment priorities within a district, or amend the boundaries of
an existing district, must comply with the Comprehensive Plan.
Policy 1.9 Development agreements. Consider development agreements entered into by the City of
Portland and pursuant to Oregon Revised Statute 94 a Comprehensive Plan implementation tool.
53. Finding: For policies 1.6 through 1.9, the FFTZ amendments do not include changes or amendments
to service coordination agreements, annexation processes, urban renewal plans, or development
agreements. Therefore, these policies are not applicable to the FFTZ amendments.
Administration
Policy 1.10. Compliance with the Comprehensive Plan. Ensure that amendments to the
Comprehensive Plan’s elements, supporting documents, and implementation tools comply with the
Comprehensive Plan. “Comply” means that amendments must be evaluated against the
Comprehensive Plan’s applicable goals and policies and on balance be equally or more supportive of
the Comprehensive Plan as a whole than the existing language or designation.
1.10.a Legislative amendments to the Comprehensive Plan’s elements and implementation tools
must also comply with the Guiding Principles.
1.10.b Legislative amendments to the Comprehensive Plan’s elements should be based on the
factual basis established in the supporting documents as updated and amended over time.
1.10.c Amendments to the Zoning Map are in compliance with the Comprehensive Plan if they are
consistent with the Comprehensive Plan Map.
54. Finding:  The City Council finds that this is a fundamental policy of the Comprehensive Plan that
guides the manner in which the City Council considers amendments to the Plan itself or any
implementing regulations, such as the Zoning Code.  The City Council interprets the policy to
require the Council to consider whether, after considering all relevant facts, an amendment is
equally or more supportive of the Comprehensive Plan.  The City Council finds that an amendment
is equally supportive when it is on its face directly supported by goals and policies in the Plan.  The
City Council finds that an amendment is more supportive of the Comprehensive Plan when the
amendment will further advance goals and policies, particularly those that are aspirational in
nature.  The City Council finds that the policy requires consideration as to whether amendments
are equally or more supportive of the Plan as a whole.  The City Council finds that amendments do
not need to be equally or more supportive with individual goals and policies, but rather
amendments must be equally or more supportive of the entire Comprehensive Plan.  Therefore,
the City Council finds that there may be instances where specific goals and policies are not
supported by the amendments but still the amendment is equally or more supportive of the entire
Comprehensive Plan when considered cumulatively. The City Council finds that there is no precise
mathematical equation for determining when the Plan as a whole is supported but rather such
consideration requires City Council discretion in evaluating the competing interests and objectives
of the plan.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

The Council notes that the Comprehensive Plan introduction explains that “[t]he Comprehensive
Plan contains a broad range of policies Council to consider.  Each policy describes a desirable
outcome.  But it is unlikely that all policies are relevant to a particular decision and that a particular
decision could be expected to advance all of the policies in the plan equally well. . . [E]ven the
strongest policies do not automatically trump other policies.  Every decision is different, with
different facts.  The particular policies that matter will change from one decision to another.  There
is no set formula – no particular number of “heavier” polies equals a larger set of “lighter” policies.
In cases where there are competing directions embodied by different policies, City Council may
choose the direction they believe best embodies the plan as a whole.”
The FFTZ amendments are a legislative amendment to the Zoning Code, an implementation tool of
the 2035 Comprehensive Plan. These findings identify how the FFTZ amendments comply with the
2035 Comprehensive Plan.  That is, the amendments are evaluated against the 2035
Comprehensive Plan’s Guiding Principles, goals, and policies, as detailed throughout this set of
findings.  As described in the finding for Policy 1.2, the factual basis of the supporting documents is
not changed by this ordinance. Specifically, the employment capacity, as defined in the EOA, is not
impacted by these changes – there are no map amendments, all industrial land use designations
remain the same. The other supporting documents have been considered but are not impacted by
these changes. The City Council finds that these amendments are equally or more supportive of the
Comprehensive Plan than the existing Zoning Code regulations because they limit the considerable
risks fossil fuel terminals pose in the event of a major earthquake, while allowing the existing
terminals to continue to operate with limited opportunities for expansion, such as aviation fuel or
renewable fuels.
The City Council finds that the evaluation to determine if the FFTZ amendments are on balance
equally or more supportive than the existing language or designation must consider all of the goals
and policies, as demonstrated by these findings. However, these amendments embody a situation
where there are competing directions embodied by different policies. There are some policies
where the amendments are equally supportive—not more or less so—but there are other policies
where the amendments a more supportive and the code changes better embody the direction in
the Comprehensive Plan as a whole.
For the reasons stated in these findings, the City Council concludes that the FFTZ amendments are
on balance more supportive of the goals and policies of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan than the
current regulations. The City Council has considered all applicable goals and policies to achieve an
optimum outcome. Goals and policies are considered as factors which must be weighed, balanced
and met on the whole, not as criteria that must be individually met. The purposes of the FFTZ
amendments are to enhance public safety and protect the environment. The City Council has
weighed and balanced the applicable goals and policies and concludes that, on the whole,
continuing to allow an unlimited increase in storage capacity at FFTs in a high risk area would be
less supportive of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan than adopting the FFTZ amendments.
As demonstrated by these findings, the FFTZ amendments effectively and efficiently implement the
Comprehensive Plan. Specifically:
The City Council has considered applicable policies to determine that this ordinance on the whole
complies with the 2035 Comprehensive Plan and on balance is equally or more supportive of the
goals and policies of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan than the current regulations. In reaching this
conclusion, City Council has weighed and balanced competing policy directions.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

In particular, the Council finds that Goal 4.D with Policies 4.79 and 4.80, requires evaluating and
reducing risk to people and property from natural hazards.  The FFTZ amendments further these
goals and policies because by limiting the risks of storing large volumes of hazardous materials in an
area with high susceptibility to an earthquake. Large fossil fuel terminals represent a risk to people,
property and the natural environments that the City Council finds as a compelling reason to limit
future risk by limiting the size of new facilities and prohibit the expansion of existing facilities.
Continuing to allow an unlimited increase in storage capacity at FFTs in a high risk area would be
less supportive of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan than adopting the FFTZ amendments
The City Council further finds that Policy 6.48 provides direction to limit fossil fuel terminals to what
is necessary to serve the region. The City Council recognizes that Portland’s fossil fuel terminals
handle 90 percent of the fossil fuel for the State of Oregon and Southwest Washington. BPS
presented evidence that national petroleum consumption forecast out to 2050 is essentially flat,
which is a continuation of historic trends in Oregon and Washington, during a period of a thriving
economy. In addition, ODOT is forecasting a decline in motor fuel consumption over the medium
term to 2029. The more recent cargo forecasts project a modest growth in volumes, but those
volumes do not exceed the historic peak volumes that were handled by the Portland terminals. No
other evidence of future demand for fossil fuels was submitted in testimony. Therefore, the City
Council finds that the fossil fuel storage capacity at the existing FFTs is sufficient to meet future
needs. These changes support the retention of existing fossil fuel terminals by designating them as
a limited use that allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in upgrades and supports
opportunities for growth through exceptions, such as aviation or renewable fuels. Further, the use
limitations provide flexibility to FFTs to replace and reconfigure existing storage tank capacity to
increase safety. In addition, limiting storage capacity to the existing facilities reduces risk from a
major earthquake, which outweighs the policy direction to provide capacity to accommodate any
potential future increase in fossil fuel consumption, in part, because continuing to consolidate fossil
fuel storage capacity in Portland is counter to resiliency principles that emphasize redundancy and
distributed facilities.
At the same time, the City Council finds that Goal 6.C with Policies 6.20 and 6.36, among others,
provide for the retention and growth of businesses, especially those in the traded sector. However,
the City Council interprets these policies apply to the economy in general, rather than specific types
of business. These changes and restrictions only apply to a narrowly defined new land use category,
Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminals, and do not have a significant effect on the other allowed uses in
industrial and employment zones.  There are no changes proposed to the Comprehensive Plan or
Zoning Map that will impact the overall size or intensity of development in the industrial and
employment areas of Portland. These amendments are narrowly constructed to apply to one class
of businesses that make up a small portion of the city, regional and state economy. Further, these
regulations only limit future expansion of these fossil fuel terminals, with some key exceptions, and
designate these businesses as a limited use that allows their continued operation.
Guilds Lake Industrial Sanctuary (GLIS) Plan policies provide direction to maintain, protect and
enhance businesses in the sanctuary. This plan was adopted in 2001 and does not address the need
for resiliency in a high and medium liquefaction susceptibility area. The City Council interprets these
policies to apply to the GLIS as a whole and not individual businesses. The City Council interprets
the legislative intent of the GLISP is to maintain the area as an industrial sanctuary and to prohibit
incompatible land uses.  The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do they allow for
new incompatible land uses that could undermine the viability of the industrial sanctuary. These
regulations apply to only one type of business that makes up a minority part of the businesses
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

found in GLIS. The remaining industrial uses to continue to operate under current regulations. The
impact of the limits on fossil fuel terminals is mitigated by designating existing fossil fuel terminals
as a limited use that allows the terminals to continue to operate and make upgrades and supports
limited enhancement through exceptions to the fossil fuel storage capacity restrictions.
Testimony by Zenith Energy claims that Resolution 37168 (Opposition to Fossil Fuel Infrastructure)
prohibits City from restricting safety improvements and service to end users, and development of
backup capacity. The testimony mischaracterizes the requirements of the resolution. The text says
that “this resolution does not restrict” safety improvements, service directly to end users, and
development of emergency backup capacity. The City Council interprets this phrase as applying to
the resolution itself, but not an adopted land use regulation that is applied directly to land use
decisions. The resolution provides guidance and direction on future City actions, such as directing
BPS to develop proposed code changes to advance the resolution. However, in the context of
making a legislative land use decision (amending the Zoning Code), the 2035 Comprehensive Plan
and Title 33 (Planning and Zoning) establish the procedures and approval criteria, which do not
reference other resolutions that have not been incorporated into the 2035 Comprehensive Plan
goals and policies.
Resolution 37168 was adopted as a binding city policy. A “binding city policy” excludes
Comprehensive Plan policies. PCC 33.835 requires that when the City amends the Zoning Code it
must be found consistent with the Comprehensive Plan. Binding City policies are not approval
criteria for amending the Zoning Code.
Even if the City Council were to consider the binding policies as approval criteria for amending the
Zoning Code, the FFTZ amendments are consistent with Resolution 37168. The Council interprets
the resolution to require the following:
1. Improvements in the safety, or efficiency, seismic resilience, or operations of existing
infrastructure;
The FFTZ amendments designate existing FFTs as a limited use specifically to allow them to
continue to operate to supply fossil fuels and to allow for safety and seismic upgrades.
Transloading facilities are a defining characteristic of a Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminal, however, the
ordinance the ordinance does not regulate transloading facilities and only limits new fossil fuel
storage tank capacity. Existing fossil fuel storage tank capacity can be replaced and
reconfigured as part of safety or seismic resilience improvements. Other aspects of terminal
infrastructure (pipelines, docks, transloading facilities) are not regulated by this ordinance.
2. The provision of service directly to end users;
The City Council interprets the term “end users” to be those users that consume the fossil fuel,
i.e. motor vehicle operators or residential customers that use natural gas to heat their
residence. The FFTZ amendments specifically exempt gas stations and other retail sales of fossil
fuels.
3. The development of emergency backup capacity;
The City Council interprets the term “emergency backup capacity” as infrastructure that is
needed to restore functions at a facility, such as a diesel generator for electricity to power the
facility, and not the wholesale duplication of the facility itself. In this case, existing FFTs are
designated as a limited use, which allows them to continue to operate as a limited use, which
allows them to make safety and seismic improvements, including facilities that serve as
emergency backup capacity.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

4. Infrastructure that enables recovery or re-processing of used petroleum products; and
The FFTZ amendments specifically exempt uses that recover or reprocess used petroleum
products.
5. Infrastructure that will accelerate the transition to non-fossil fuel energy sources
The FFTZ amendments specifically define fossil fuels as fuels that “are made from decayed
plants and animals that lived millions of years ago and are a source of energy” as a means to
exclude other types of fuels that come from renewable energy, such as ethanol,
biodiesel/renewable diesel and renewable hydrogen, as long as that fuel has less than 5
percent fossil fuel content. The ordinance only limits new fossil fuel storage tank capacity.
Other aspects of terminal infrastructure (pipelines, docks, transloading facilities) are not
regulated by this ordinance.
Therefore, although the Council is not required to consider consistency with the Resolution as it is
not approval criteria for a legislative land use decision, the City Council nonetheless finds that the
FFTZ amendments are consistent with Resolution 37168.
Policy 1.11. Consistency with Metro Urban Growth Management Functional Plan and Urban Growth
Boundary. Ensure that the Comprehensive Plan remains consistent with the Metro Urban Growth
Management Functional Plan and supports a tight urban growth boundary for the Portland
metropolitan area.
Policy 1.12. Consistency with Statewide Planning Goals. Ensure that the Comprehensive Plan,
supporting documents, and implementation tools remain consistent with the Oregon Statewide
Planning Goals.
55. Finding:  As noted earlier in these findings, the FFTZ amendments are consistent with and designed
to further the applicable elements of the Metro Urban Growth Management Functional Plan and
Statewide Planning Goals, consistent with the directives of policies 1.11 and 1.12.
Policy 1.13. Consistency with state and federal regulations. Ensure that the Comprehensive Plan
remains consistent with all applicable state and federal regulations, and that implementation
measures for the Comprehensive Plan are well coordinated with other City activities that respond to
state and federal regulations.
56. Finding:  The FFTZ amendments were developed to be consistent with applicable state and federal
regulations and do not amend any Zoning Code sections that are required by state or federal
regulations, including FEMA flood regulations and state building code requirements.
Testimony by the Western States Petroleum Association claims that the ordinance will prevent and
discourage equipment upgrades necessary to comply with federal and state clean fuels law.
Compliance with federal and state law is not defined, no specific citations are provided. Only new
fossil storage tank capacity is restricted, other equipment upgrades are allowed. The ordinance
specifically exempts new storage capacity for renewable fuels as a means to support compliance
with DEQ’s Clean Fuels Program.
Testimony by the Western States Petroleum Association claims that the ordinance will prevent and
discourage the transition to newer lower-carbon-fuel sources in opposition to Oregon's low-
carbon-fuel standards, Oregon's Renewable Fuel Standards, federal Renewable Fuel Standards, and
similar laws. The testimony does not define what infrastructure that is required for the “transition
to newer lower-carbon-fuel sources”. Compliance with federal and state law is not defined, no
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

specific citations are provided. The ordinance specifically exempts new storage capacity for
renewable fuels as a means to support compliance with DEQ’s Clean Fuels Program.
Testimony by the Western States Petroleum Association claims that the ordinance is not in
alignment with state and federal policy regarding siting energy infrastructure or transportation of
fuels. The testimony does not cite any specific state or federal energy siting or transportation
policy. The testimony does not acknowledge or address the risks in citing energy infrastructure in
an area of high risk of liquefaction.
Policy 1.14. Public facility adequacy. Consider impacts on the existing and future availability and
capacity of urban public facilities and services when amending Comprehensive Plan elements and
implementation tools. Urban public facilities and services include those provided by the City,
neighboring jurisdictions, and partners within Portland’s urban services boundaries, as established by
Policies 8.2 and 8.6.
57. Finding:  As demonstrated in the findings for Statewide Planning Goal 11 and Chapter 8 (Public
Facilities and Services) of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, the FFTZ amendments do not significantly
impact the provision of public services.
Policy 1.15. Intergovernmental coordination. Strive to administer the Comprehensive Plan elements
and implementation tools in a manner that supports the efforts and fiscal health of the City, county
and regional governments, and partner agencies such as school districts and transit agencies.
58. Finding:  As demonstrated in the findings for Statewide Planning Goal 2, the City filed the required
35-day notice with Oregon Department of Land Conservation and Development to notify other
government agencies of the proposed FFTZ amendments.  In addition, the City sent a separate
legislative notice to Multnomah County, adjacent cities, Metro and TriMet. The Port of Portland
was the only government agency that raised issues or concerns with the original ordinance. The
Port of Portland appreciated that the ordinance was amended to address their concerns about the
supply of aviation fuel to Portland International Airport (PDX) and marine fuel suppliers.
Policy 1.16. Planning and Sustainability Commission review. Ensure the Planning and Sustainability
Commission (PSC) reviews and makes recommendations to the City Council on all proposed legislative
amendments to Comprehensive Plan elements, supporting documents, and implementation tools. The
PSC advises City Council on the City’s long-range goals, policies, and programs for land use, planning,
and sustainability. The membership and powers and duties of the PSC are described in the Zoning
Code.
59. Finding:  The City Council interprets this policy as requiring the PSC to hold at least one public
hearing before making a recommendation on a legislative matter as required by PCC 33.740. The
PSC reviewed and recommended the original FFTZ amendments in 2016. The City Council finds that
this ordinance is a continuation of the initial legislative action that began in 2016 and was
remanded to the Council to take additional action.  The City Council does not interpret this policy to
require the remand go back to PSC because it is a continuation of the same legislative proposal. The
City Council did not refer this ordinance back to the PSC for another recommendation because no
substantive changes are required by the legal decisions. The assignment of errors are a lack
evidence to support the decision, not the code itself. The purpose of this ordinance is to provide
additional findings, including findings that address the goals and policies in the 2035
Comprehensive Plan, to support the decision and confirm that the decision is supported by an
adequate factual base with minor technical changes to the code to conform to the current zoning
code.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy 1.17. Community Involvement Committee. Establish a Community Involvement Committee to
oversee the Community Involvement Program as recognized by Oregon Statewide Planning Goal 1 –
Community Involvement and policies 2.15-2.18 of this Comprehensive Plan.
60. Finding:  This policy only requires the establishment of a Citizen Involvement Committee, which was
appointed in June 2018 and reviews and advises the way City staff engage with the public in land
use and transportation planning. This policy does not apply.
Policy 1.18. Quasi-judicial amendments to the Comprehensive Plan Map. Applicants for quasi-judicial
amendments to the Comprehensive Plan Map must show that the requested change adheres to
Policies 1.10 through 1.15 and:
• Is compatible with the land use pattern established by the Comprehensive Plan Map.
• Is not in conflict with applicable adopted area-specific plans as described in Policy 1.19, or the
applicable hearings body determines that the identified conflict represents a circumstance
where the area specific plan is in conflict with the Comprehensive Plan and the proposed
amendment is consistent with the Comprehensive Plan.
The Hearings Officer must review and make recommendations to the City Council on all quasi-
judicial amendments to the Comprehensive Plan Map using procedures outlined in the Zoning
Code.
61. Finding:  This policy concerns quasi-judicial amendments to the Comprehensive Plan Map and is not
applicable to this project, which is a legislative project.
Policy 1.19. Area-specific plans. Use area-specific plans to provide additional detail or refinements
applicable at a smaller geographic scale, such as for centers and corridors, within the policy
framework provided by the overall Comprehensive Plan.
1.19.a Area-specific plans that are adopted after May 24, 2018, should clearly identify which
components amend Comprehensive Plan elements, supporting documents, or implementation
tools. Such amendments should be appropriate to the scope of the Comprehensive Plan; be
intended to guide land use decisions; and provide geographically-specific detail. Such
amendments could include policies specific to the plan area, land use designation changes, zoning
map changes, zoning code changes, and public facility projects necessary to serve designated land
uses.
1.19.b Area-specific plan components intended as context, general guidance, or directives for
future community-driven efforts should not amend the Comprehensive Plan elements or
implementation tools but be adopted by resolution as intent. These components include vision
statements, historical context, existing conditions, action plans, design preferences, and other
background information.
1.19.c Community, area, neighborhood, and other area-specific plans that were adopted by
ordinance prior to January 1, 2018 are still in effect. However, the elements of this Comprehensive
Plan supersede any goals or policies of a community, area, or neighborhood plan that are
inconsistent with this Plan.
62. Finding:  Council interprets the policy to require the Council “use” or “consider” area-specific plans
as additional detail or refinement of policies as applied to a smaller geographic area.  The only area-
specific plan that applies to the FFTZ amendments is the Guilds Lake Industrial Sanctuary Plan
(GLISP). The additional detail provided in that plan are addressed below.  Council finds that the
GLISP policies and objectives for preserving and enhancing industrial businesses and employment
opportunities are consistent with the goals and policies in Chapter 6 (Economic Development) of
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

the 2035 Comprehensive Plan. However, the GLISP does not address other relevant policies
identified in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, especially Goal 4.D with Policies 4.79 and 4.80, which
require reducing risk to people and property from natural hazards. Therefore, the City Council
considers GLISP and the Comprehensive Plan together and finds that on balance, the FFTZ
amendments are consistent with the comprehensive plan and GLISP.
Chapter 2: Community Involvement
Goal 2.A: Community involvement as a partnership. The City of Portland works together as a genuine
partner with all Portland communities and interests. The City promotes, builds, and maintains
relationships, and communicates with individuals, communities, neighborhoods, businesses,
organizations, institutions, and other governments to ensure meaningful community involvement in
planning and investment decisions.
Goal 2.B: Social justice and equity. The City of Portland seeks social justice by expanding choice and
opportunity for all community members, recognizing a special responsibility to identify and engage, as
genuine partners, under-served and under-represented communities in planning, investment,
implementation, and enforcement processes, particularly those with potential to be adversely
affected by the results of decisions. The City actively works to improve its planning and investment-
related decisions to achieve equitable distribution of burdens and benefits and address past injustices.
Goal 2.C: Value community wisdom and participation. Portland values and encourages community
and civic participation. The City seeks and considers community wisdom and diverse cultural
perspectives, and integrates them with technical analysis, to strengthen land use decisions.
Goal 2.D: Transparency and accountability. City planning and investment decision-making processes
are clear, open, and documented. Through these processes a diverse range of community interests are
heard and balanced. The City makes it clear to the community who is responsible for making decisions
and how community input is considered. Accountability includes monitoring and reporting outcomes.
Goal 2.E: Meaningful participation. Community members have meaningful opportunities to
participate in and influence all stages of planning and decision making. Public processes engage the
full diversity of affected community members, including under-served and under-represented
individuals and communities. The City will seek and facilitate the involvement of those potentially
affected by planning and decision making.
Goal 2.F: Accessible and effective participation. City planning and investment decision-making
processes are designed to be culturally accessible and effective. The City draws from acknowledged
best practices and uses a wide variety of tools, including those developed and recommended by
under-served and under-represented communities, to promote inclusive, collaborative, culturally-
specific, and robust community involvement.
Goal 2.G: Strong civic infrastructure. Civic institutions, organizations, and processes encourage active
and meaningful community involvement and strengthen the capacity of individuals and communities
to participate in planning processes and civic life.
63. Finding: The City Council interprets these goals and policies as together requiring a robust public
process when making a land use decision.  This is implemented through the Legislative procedure
requirements in PCC 33.740.  Neither the Code nor the policies provide explicit direction for
responding to a LUBA remand.  Council finds that this legislative action is a continuation of the 2016
legislative action and, therefore, it is appropriate and consistent with the applicable policies to
bring the ordinance before Council with a notice and a hearing.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

64. Finding:  The 2016 adoption of the ordinance provided opportunities for all interested parties to
comment on and influence the Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning proposal. The preparation of these
amendments provided numerous opportunities for public involvement, including:
Concept Phase. In 2016, prior to the initiation of the legislative project, BPS conducted four
stakeholder focus groups meetings. These meetings included participants with a range of
perspectives and experience, including community group representatives, fuel terminal
representatives, environmental organizations, and business organizations. These meetings served
as a forum for discussing issues and potential approaches, and to help inform project staff
develop concepts. In addition to the stakeholder focus groups, BPS staff met with several fuel
terminals to explain the proposal, answer questions, and discuss their individual concerns. These
meetings were needed because antitrust regulations constrained discussion about certain topics,
for example supply chains, in the presence of representatives from other fuel terminals.
Discussion Draft. On June 29, 2016, the Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments Discussion Draft
was published and posted on the Bureau website.
Proposed Draft. On August 12, 2016, the Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Proposed Draft was
published in preparation for the Planning and Sustainability Commission (PSC) review and
recommendation. In support of this process, the BPS website had a project page dedicated to this
project, an email address for submitting testimony. As part of the Proposed Draft publication and
legislative process requirements, the following legal notices were also sent:
Form 1 35-day Notice. Sent to the Department of Land Conservation and Development
(DLCD)
Legislative Notice. Sent to interested parties, recognized organizations, affected bureaus,
TriMet, Metro and ODOT and published in the Daily Journal of Commerce
Measure 56 Notice. Required by Ballot Measure 56, this mailed notice was sent to
property owners with industrial or employment base zoning.
The PSC held a public hearing on September 13, 2016. On October 11, 2016, the Planning and
Sustainability Commission voted to recommend the Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments to
City Council, including PSC-recommended modifications to the Proposed Draft. All PSC meetings
were streamed live and available for viewing on the Bureau website.
Recommended Draft. On October 24, 2016. the Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Recommended Draft was published to present the PSC recommendations to City Council. On
October 25, 2016, notice of the City Council hearing on the Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning
Amendments was mailed. The City Council held public hearings on November 10 and 16, 2016, to
receive testimony on the Recommended Draft. On December 8, 2016, the City Council voted to
adopt the Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments.
Ordinance No. 188142 was appealed to the Oregon Land Use Board of Appeals (LUBA).  LUBA
reversed the City’s decision with a number of assignments of error in Columbia Pacific Building
Trades Council et al v. City of Portland, LUBA Case No. 2017-001, July 19, 2017.  LUBA’s decision
was appealed to the Oregon Court of Appeals, which overturned LUBA’s decision which was
affirmed in part and reversed in part in Columbia Pacific Building Trades Council v. City of Portland,
289 Or App 739 (2018).  The Oregon Court of Appeals decision was appealed to the Oregon
Supreme Court, which denied review, 363 Or 390 (2018). On October 5, 2018, LUBA remanded
Columbia Pacific Building Trades Council et al v. City of Portland, LUBA Case No. 2017-001. The
assignments of error that LUBA sustained and were either affirmed or not challenged on appeal to
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

the Court of Appeals concern insufficient findings or evidence or misconstruction of law that do not
support a conclusion that the decision is prohibited as a matter of law.
The City of Portland does not have adopted code or policies to establish a decision-making process
for a remand decision. The City Council determined that it was appropriate to bring the ordinance
directly back to City Council, given the extensive public process that happened as part of the initial
adoption of the ordinance in 2016 and that no substantive changes to the Zoning Code are required
to address the remand issues. Notification of the November 20, 2019, City Council public hearing
on the remand of Ordinance No. 188142 was sent to the City’s legislative notice list, the fossil fuel
terminal property owners, and the parties to the appeal.
On November 20, 2019, the Portland City Council held a public hearing and received testimony on
the re-adoption of the fossil fuel terminal zoning restrictions. The written record was left open for
additional testimony until December 2, 2019. The evidentiary record from the initial decision is
incorporated by reference and supplemented by additional evidence provided by BPS staff, the
testimony Council received at the November 20 hearing and the written testimony received by
December 2.

Partners in decision making
Policy 2.1. Partnerships and coordination. Maintain partnerships and coordinate land use
engagement with:
2.1.a Individual community members.
2.1.b Communities of color, low‐income populations, Limited English Proficient (LEP)
communities, Native American communities, and other under-served and under-represented
communities.
2.1.c District coalitions, neighborhood associations, and business district associations as local
experts and communication channels for place-based projects.
2.1.d Businesses, unions, employees, and related organizations that reflect Portland’s diversity as
the center of regional economic and cultural activity.
2.1.e Community-based, faith-based, artistic and cultural, and interest-based non-profits,
organizations, and groups.
2.1.f Institutions, governments, and Sovereign tribes.
65. Finding:  The 2035 Comprehensive Plan defines the verb “maintain” to mean keep what you have;
conserve; preserve; continue. The City Council interprets these policies as requiring diverse
community engagement with district interests represented, however, the policies do not require
Council to only accept the opinion, argument, or evidence of any one group. The City Council
ultimately will evaluate the information and make a policy determination that is consistent with the
goals and policies.
As described in the Statewide Planning Goal 1 findings, the initial adoption of the FFTZ amendments
were informed by a broad range of individuals and groups. Prior to the initiation of the legislative
project, BPS conducted four stakeholder focus groups meetings. These meetings included
participants with a range of perspectives and experience, including community group
representatives, fuel terminal representatives, environmental organizations, and business
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

organizations. These meetings served as a forum for discussing issues and potential approaches,
and to help inform project staff develop concepts. In addition to the stakeholder focus groups, BPS
staff met with several fuel terminals to explain the proposal, answer questions, and discuss their
individual concerns.
Policy 2.2. Broaden partnerships. Work with district coalitions, neighborhood associations, and
business district associations to increase participation and to help them reflect the diversity of the
people and institutions they serve. Facilitate greater communication and collaboration among district
coalitions, neighborhood associations, business district associations, culturally-specific organizations,
and community-based organizations.
66. Finding:  The City Council interprets this policy to guide how the City works with a broad range of
partners over time, beyond the context of a specific land use decision. This policy does not apply.
Environmental justice
Policy 2.3. Extend benefits. Ensure plans and investments promote environmental justice by
extending the community benefits associated with environmental assets, land use, and public
investments to communities of color, low-income populations, and other under-served or under-
represented groups impacted by the decision. Maximize economic, cultural, political, and
environmental benefits through ongoing partnerships.
Policy 2.4. Eliminate burdens. Ensure plans and investments eliminate associated disproportionate
burdens (e.g. adverse environmental, economic, or community impacts) for communities of color,
low-income populations, and other under-served or under-represented groups impacted by the
decision.
2.4.a, Minimize or mitigate disproportionate burdens in cases where they cannot be eliminated.
2.4.b, Use plans and investments to address disproportionate burdens of previous decisions.
67. Finding:  The City Council finds that Policies 2.3 and 2.4 work together to address the benefits and
burdens of planning and investment decisions have on under-served and under-represented
groups. The verb “ensure”, which is defined in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, means to make sure
that something will happen or be available. In terms of benefits, the City Council finds that the FFTZ
amendments seek to reduce the risk of adverse environmental impacts associated with a major
earthquake and FFTs, which will be an improvement compared to the current regulations that
allow for unlimited growth in FFTs. In terms of burdens, the City Council finds that one of the
important factors is the impact on job opportunities across a wide range of wage scales, especially
middle wage jobs, which can provide for economic prosperity for under-served or under-
represented groups, especially for those people without college degrees. Specifically, those middle-
wage opportunities are found in Portland’s industrial districts. The City Council finds that the
ordinance has been narrowly written to minimize impacts to the existing fossil fuel terminals (FFTs).
Further, the FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do they allow for new
incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes do not reduce the employment land base and
continue to support employment opportunities in a strong and diverse economy.
Invest in education and training
Policy 2.5. Community capacity building. Enhance the ability of community members, particularly
those in under-served and/or under-represented groups, to develop the relationships, knowledge, and
skills to effectively participate in plan and investment processes.
Policy 2.6. Land use literacy. Provide training and educational opportunities to build the public’s
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

understanding of land use, transportation, housing, and related topics, and increase capacity for
meaningful participation in planning and investment processes.
Policy 2.7. Agency capacity building. Increase City staff’s capacity, tools, and skills to design and
implement processes that engage a broad diversity of affected and interested communities, including
under-served and under-represented communities, in meaningful and appropriate ways.
68. Finding:  Policies 2.5 through 2.7 concern broad approaches to educating community members and
City staff about planning processes, and are not applicable to these Zoning Code amendments.
Community assessment
Policy 2.8. Channels of communication. Maintain channels of communication among City Council, the
Planning and Sustainability Commission (PSC), project advisory committees, City staff, and community
members.
69. Finding:  The City Council interprets this policy to create the opportunity for the community and
advisory committees to have opportunities to communicate their issues and concerns to the PSC
and City Council outside of the formal legislative process. These changes are a legislative process
with formal opportunities to testify to communicate directly with City Council. Therefore, this policy
does not apply.
Policy 2.9. Community analysis. Collect and evaluate data, including community-validated population
data and information, to understand the needs, priorities, and trends and historical context affecting
different communities in Portland.
Policy 2.10. Community participation in data collection. Provide meaningful opportunities for
individuals and communities to be involved in inventories, mapping, data analysis, and the
development of alternatives.
Policy 2.11. Open Data. Ensure planning and investment decisions are a collaboration among
stakeholders, including those listed in Policy 2.1. Where appropriate, encourage publication,
accessibility, and wide-spread sharing of data collected and generated by the City.
70. Finding:  Policies 2.9 through 2.11 concern how the City collects and makes available data that
supports land use decisions. In this case, the City published data concerning the storage capacity of
existing FFTs as part of the discussion draft, proposed draft, and recommendation draft with an
opportunity for the community and terminal owners to validate that data.
Transparency and accountability
Policy 2.12. Roles and responsibilities. Establish clear roles, rights, and responsibilities for participants
and decision makers in planning and investment processes. Address roles of City bureaus, elected
officials, and participants, including community and neighborhood leadership, business, organizations,
and individuals.
Policy 2.13. Project scope. Establish clear expectations about land use project sponsorship, purpose,
design, and how decision makers will use the process results.
Policy 2.14. Community influence. At each stage of the process, identify which elements of a planning
and investment process can be influenced or changed through community involvement. Clarify the
extent to which those elements can be influenced or changed.

Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy 2.15. Documentation and feedback. Provide clear documentation for the rationale supporting
decisions in planning and investment processes. Communicate to participants about the issues raised
in the community involvement process, how public input affected outcomes, and the rationale used to
make decisions.
71. Finding:  Policies 2.12 Through 2.15 guide the process for making planning and investment
decisions. As described in the findings for Statewide Planning Goal 1 (Citizen Involvement), the
original legislative process was clearly outlined in notices, documents and on the project website as
to how to testify to influence the Proposed Draft at the PSC, which amended the proposal. Then the
Recommended Draft was published with the opportunity to testify to the City Council at the 2016
public hearings.
For the re-adoption of the FFTZ amendments, the notice for the remand explicitly identified what
the City Council was considering (the same ordinance) and how to participate in the hearing or
submit written testimony. The City Council received public testimony at the November 20, 2019
hearing on the substance of the regulations and the written record was left open for additional
testimony until December 2, 2019.
The findings in this document respond to the public testimony and explain the rationale used to
make this decision.
Testimony by Zenith Energy raised concerns that the additional facts or evidence was not identified
or made available for public review. The initial findings were available as part of ordinance filing.
BPS staff presented additional evidence as part of November 20, 2019 City Council hearing (and
posted to the project website). The written record was left open for 11 days to provide an
opportunity for any interested party to respond. In addition, the record of evidence was publicly
available, and, as of November 30, no requests were made to review the record.
Community involvement program
Policies 2.16 through 2.23.
72. Finding:  These policies concern the City’s Community Involvement Program and are not applicable
because the FFTZ amendments do not change this program.
Process design and evaluation
Policy 2.24. Representation. Facilitate participation of a cross-section of the full diversity of affected
Portlanders during planning and investment processes. This diversity includes individuals,
stakeholders, and communities represented by race, color, national origin, English proficiency, gender,
age, disability, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity, and source of income.
Policy 2.25. Early involvement. Improve opportunities for interested and affected community
members to participate early in planning and investment processes, including identifying and
prioritizing issues, needs, and opportunities; participating in process design; and recommending and
prioritizing projects and/or other types of implementation.
Policy 2.26. Verifying data. Use data, including community-validated population data, to guide
planning and investment processes and priority setting and to shape community involvement and
decision-making efforts.
Policy 2.27. Demographics. Identify the demographics of potentially affected communities when
initiating a planning or investment project.
Policy 2.28. Historical understanding. To better understand concerns and conditions when initiating a
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

project, research the history, culture, past plans, and other needs of the affected community,
particularly under-represented and under-served groups, and persons with limited English proficiency
(LEP). Review preliminary findings with members of the community who have institutional and
historical knowledge.
Policy 2.29. Project-specific needs. Customize community involvement processes to meet the needs
of those potentially affected by the planning or investment project. Use community involvement
techniques that fit the scope, character, and potential impact of the planning or investment decision
under consideration.
Policy 2.30. Culturally-appropriate processes. Consult with communities to design culturally-
appropriate processes to meet the needs of those affected by a planning or investment project.
Evaluate, use, and document creative and culturally-appropriate methods, tools, technologies, and
spaces to inform and engage people from under-served and under-represented groups about planning
or investment projects.
Policy 2.31. Innovative engagement methods. Develop and document innovative methods, tools, and
technologies for community involvement processes for plan and investment projects.
Policy 2.32. Inclusive participation beyond Portland residents. Design public processes for planning
and investment projects to engage affected and interested people who may not live in Portland such
as property owners, employees, employers, and students, among others, as practicable.
Policy 2.33. Inclusive participation in Central City planning. Design public processes for the Central
City that recognize its unique role as the region’s center. Engage a wide range of stakeholders from
the Central City and throughout the region including employees, employers, social service providers,
students, and visitors, as well as regional tourism, institutional, recreation, transportation, and
local/regional government representatives, as appropriate.
Policy 2.34. Accessibility. Ensure that community involvement processes for planning and investment
projects are broadly accessible in terms of location, time, and language, and that they support the
engagement of individuals with a variety of abilities and limitations on participation.
Policy 2.35. Participation monitoring. Evaluate and document participant demographics throughout
planning and investment processes to assess whether participation reflects the demographics of
affected communities. Adapt involvement practices and activities accordingly to increase effectiveness
at reaching targeted audiences.
Policy 2.36. Adaptability. Adapt community involvement processes for planning and investment
projects as appropriate to flexibly respond to changes in the scope and priority of the issues, needs,
and other factors that may affect the process.
Policy 2.37. Process evaluation. Evaluate each community involvement process for planning or
investment projects from both the City staff and participants’ perspectives, and consider feedback and
lessons learned to enhance future involvement efforts.
73. Finding:  Policies 2.24 through 2.37 concern how the community involvement program is designed
and developed to support planning and investment projects. The community involvement process
conducted in support of initial adoption of the FFTZ amendments engaged a broad range of
stakeholders. As part of the concept development of the zoning code changes, BPS held
stakeholder focus group meetings with representatives from energy providers (the FFTs, the
Western States Petroleum Association, Northwest Natural, and business organizations) and
environmental organizations. The Discussion Draft was crafted in response to these discussions. In
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

turn, comments on the Discussion Draft informed changes that were incorporated in the Proposed
Draft. A large number of people testified at both the PSC and City Council public hearings, which
resulted in amendments to the regulations.
For this reconsideration of the remanded notice, a legislative notice was sent to the City’s
legislative notice list as well as the FFT owners and the attorneys that participated in the appeal.
People testifies at the November 20, 2019, public hearing.
Information design and development
Policy 2.38. Accommodation. Ensure accommodations to let individuals with disabilities participate in
administrative, quasi-judicial, and legislative land use decisions, consistent with federal regulations.
74. Finding: The City Council hearing on November 20, 2019 was held at City Hall, an accessible
location.
Policy 2.39. Notification. Notify affected and interested community members and recognized
organizations about administrative, quasi-judicial, and legislative land use decisions with enough lead
time to enable effective participation. Consider notification to both property owners and renters.
75. Finding:  For the original adoption of the FFTZ amendments, the City sent the required Measure 56
notice to all owners of industrial zoned properties when it published the Proposed Draft prior to
the PSC hearing. The City also sent a legislative notice to interested parties, including neighborhood
associations, business associations, and other affected jurisdictions, that have requested notice of
proposed land use changes.
The City Council’s action on remand is a continuation of the initial legislative proceeding.  Prior to
conducting a hearing, the City sent a legislative notice to interested parties, FFT owners and the
attorneys that participated in the appeal to inform them of the opportunity to testify at the
November 20, 2019, City Council public hearing.  Additionally, Council left the written record open
until December 2, 2019, to provide additional opportunities to participate.
Policy 2.40. Tools for effective participation. Provide clear and easy access to information about
administrative, quasi-judicial, and legislative land use decisions in multiple formats and through
technological advancements and other ways.
Policy 2.41. Limited English Proficiency (LEP). Ensure that limited English proficient (LEP) individuals
are provided meaningful access to information about administrative, quasi-judicial, and legislative
land use decisions, consistent with federal regulations.
76. Finding:  Regular communications about the original adoption of the FFTZ project and opportunities
to participate and provide input were made available through the project website.
Chapter 3: Urban Form
77. Finding: The City Council interprets that the overall intent of these policies is to foster a compact
urban form, make corridors vibrant, enhance public realm. The policies relate to design and the
physical structure. The FFTZ amendments limit one type of use and do not impact or change design
or physical development requirements. Therefore, the goals and policies of this chapter are
generally not applicable. However, to the extent a policy could be deemed applicable, the City
Council provides further findings below.
GOAL 3.A: A city designed for people. Portland’s built environment is designed to serve the needs and
aspirations of all Portlanders, promoting prosperity, health, equity, and resiliency. New development,
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

redevelopment, and public investments reduce disparities and encourage social interaction to create a
healthy connected city.
78. Finding:  The City Council interprets this goal to guide the design of new development and the
impact it has on Portland’s built environment. This goal is not directly applicable to the FFTZ
amendments because this ordinance regulates one type of use in Portland’s industrial and
employment zones. The FFTZ amendments do promote prosperity and equity by preserving the
industrial development capacity to support employment growth, which contributes to more
equitably distributed household prosperity. Further, the FFTZ amendments promote health and
resiliency by limiting future risk by limiting the size of new fossil fuel terminals and prohibiting the
expansion of fossil fuel storage capacity at existing FFTs, with limited exceptions for aviation and
renewable fuels. Further, by designating existing FFTs as a limited use, as opposed to a prohibited
nonconforming use, allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in facilities that reduce
the risks and improve their ability to withstand a major earthquake, which ultimately can make
Portland more resilient.
GOAL 3.B: A climate and hazard resilient urban form. Portland’s compact urban form, sustainable
building development practices, green infrastructure, and active transportation system reduce carbon
emissions, reduce natural hazard risks and impacts, and improve resilience to the effects of climate
change.
79. Finding:  This goal does not apply because the FFTZ amendments do not change Portland’s compact
urban form, sustainable building practices, green infrastructure, or active transportation because
this ordinance regulates one type of use in Portland’s industrial and employment zones.
The ordinance does reduce natural hazard risks and impacts because most of Portland’s
employment and industrial zones are in areas with high to very high levels of liquefaction
susceptibility, as documented by the 2018 DOGAMI Earthquake Regional Impact Analysis. The FFTZ
amendments are a regulatory approach that improves Portland’s ability to withstand and recover
from an earthquake by limiting the size of new fossil fuel terminals and prohibiting the expansion of
fossil fuel storage capacity at existing fossil fuel terminals, with limited exceptions for aviation and
renewable fuels, which is an improvement over the current regulations that allow for unlimited
growth in FFTs. The FFTZ regulations focus on limiting risk by limiting new development (fossil fuel
storage capacity), but designate existing FFTs as a limited use, which allows the terminals to
continue to operate and invest in facilities that reduce the risks and improve their ability to
withstand a major earthquake. Further, the use limitations provide flexibility to FFTs to replace and
reconfigure existing storage tank capacity to increase safety.
GOAL 3.C: Focused growth. Household and employment growth is focused in the Central City and
other centers, corridors, and transit station areas, creating compact urban development in areas with
a high level of service and amenities, while allowing the relative stability of lower-density single-family
residential areas.
80. Finding:  The FFTZ amendments are focused on changes to allowed uses in the City’s industrial
areas and do not affect the City’s goal in creating compact urban development. This goal does not
apply.
GOAL 3.D: A system of centers and corridors. Portland’s interconnected system of centers and
corridors provides diverse housing options and employment opportunities, robust multimodal
transportation connections, access to local services and amenities, and supports low-carbon complete,
healthy, and equitable communities.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

81. Finding:  The FFTZ amendments are focused on changes to allowed uses in the City’s industrial
areas and do not affect the City’s goal in creating a system of centers and corridors. This goal does
not apply.
GOAL 3.E: Connected public realm and open spaces. A network of parks, streets, City Greenways, and
other public spaces supports community interaction; connects neighborhoods, districts, and
destinations; and improves air, water, land quality, and environmental health.
82. Finding:  The FFTZ amendments are focused on changes to the City’s industrial areas, which play a
limited role in the City’s connected network of parks and open spaces. Six of the existing FFTs have
frontage on the Willamette River with designated natural resources that are protected by the
Greenway Overlay Zone (Chapters 33.440), which is not amended by this ordinance. This goal does
not apply.
GOAL 3.F: Employment districts. Portland supports job growth in a variety of employment districts to
maintain a diverse economy.
83. Finding:  The 2035 Comprehensive Plan defines the verb “maintain” to mean keep what you have;
conserve; preserve; continue. As described in the Economic Opportunities Analysis (EOA), Portland
has a diverse economy with a wide range of businesses and employment opportunities that are
distributed across the Central City, neighborhood commercial areas, campus institutions and
industrial areas. The City Council interprets this goal to apply to the City’s economy in general and
not specific industries. The City Council finds that the policy means that the City will support job
growth in all employment districts in order to maintain a diverse economy, but the policy does not
require the City to support the job growth of specific industries at all costs.  The FFTZ amendments
maintain Portland’s diverse economy because the changes do not include map changes, nor do
they allow for new incompatible land uses in industrial areas. Therefore, these changes will
continue to provide the same opportunities for employment in Portland’s employment districts.
The FFTZ regulations apply to only one type of business that makes up a minority part of the
businesses found in Portland’s employment districts. The limits on expansion of fossil fuel storage
capacity at FFTs are mitigated by designating existing FFTs as a limited use that allows the terminals
to maintain, preserve and continue to operate and improve their intermodal facilities and supports
opportunities for growth through a number of exceptions, such as aviation or renewable fuels, to
the storage capacity restrictions.
GOAL 3.G: Nature in the city. A system of habitat corridors weaves nature into the city, enhances
habitat connectivity, and preserves natural resources and the ecosystem services they provide.
84. Finding:  The Willamette and Columbia rivers play a major role in the habitat corridors that weave
nature into Portland. Six of the existing FFTs have frontage on the Willamette River with designated
natural resources that are protected by the Greenway Overlay Zone (Chapters 33.440), which is not
amended by this ordinance. In considering the natural hazard risks that the FFTs pose to the
ecosystem functions on the river, as identified by the Portland Bureau of Emergency Management's
Critical Energy Infrastructure Hub Study (2016), the City Council finds that continuing to allow the
unlimited increase in storage capacity at FFTs in a high risk area does not enhance the current or
future natural resource functions of the rivers. Therefore, the FFTZ regulations focus on limiting risk
by limiting fossil fuel storage capacity, but designate existing FFTs as a limited use, which allows the
terminals to continue to operate and invest in facilities that reduce the risks and improve their
ability to withstand a major earthquake. Further, the use limitations provide flexibility to FFTs to
replace and reconfigure existing storage tank capacity to increase safety. These regulations will limit
the risks to the natural resource habitat functions and ecosystem services provided by the rivers.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Citywide design and development
Policy 3.1. Urban Design Framework. Use the Urban Design Framework (UDF) as a guide to create
inclusive and enduring places, while providing flexibility for implementation at the local scale to meet
the needs of local communities.
85. Finding:  The UDF is a guide at the citywide scale. The UDF identifies the Rivers pattern area, which
encompasses most of Portland’s industrial and employment areas, including all of the existing FFTs.
The FFTZ amendments are focused on changes to allowed uses in the City’s industrial areas. The
FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do they allow for new incompatible land uses.
Therefore, these changes are consistent with this policy because they do not change the location or
character of the Rivers pattern area.
Policy 3.2. Growth and stability. Direct the majority of growth and change to centers, corridors, and
transit station areas, allowing the continuation of the scale and characteristics of Portland’s residential
neighborhoods.
86. Finding:  The FFTZ amendments are focused on changes to allowed uses in the City’s industrial
areas. These regulations apply to only one type of business that makes up a minority part of the
businesses found in Portland’s industrial districts. The other industrial uses continue to operate
under current regulations.  These changes will not affect the City’s policies to direct most growth to
centers and corridors or affect the scale and characteristics of Portland’s residential
neighborhoods.
Policy 3.3. Equitable development. Guide development, growth, and public facility investment to
reduce disparities, ensure equitable access to opportunities, mitigate the impacts of development on
income disparity, displacement and produce positive outcomes for all Portlanders.
3.3.a. Anticipate, avoid, reduce, and mitigate negative public facility and development impacts,
especially where those impacts inequitably burden communities of color, under-served and
under-represented communities, and other vulnerable populations.
3.3.b. Make needed investments in areas that are deficient in public facilities to reduce
disparities and increase equity. Accompany these investments with proactive measures to avoid
displacement and increase affordable housing.
3.3.c. Encourage use of plans, agreements, incentives, and other tools to promote equitable
outcomes from development projects that benefit from public financial assistance.
3.3.d. Incorporate requirements into the Zoning Code to provide public and community benefits
as a condition for development projects to receive increased development allowances.
3.3.e. When private property value is increased by public plans and investments, require
development to address or mitigate displacement impacts and impacts on housing affordability,
in ways that are related and roughly proportional to these impacts.
3.3.f. Coordinate housing, economic development, and public facility plans and investments to
create an integrated community development approach to restore communities impacted by
past decisions.
3.3.g. Encourage developers to engage directly with a broad range of impacted communities to
identify potential impacts of private development projects, develop mitigation measures, and
provide community benefits to address adverse impacts.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

87. Finding:  One of the ways to reduce disparities and produce positive outcomes for all Portlanders is
to create more opportunities for middle wage jobs, especially for people without college degrees.
Those opportunities can be found in Portland’s industrial areas. The FFTZ amendments do not
include map changes, nor do they allow for new incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes
do not conflict with the intent to encourage growth in Portland’s industrial districts. These
regulations apply to only one type of business that makes up a minority part of the businesses
found in Portland’s industrial districts. The remaining industrial uses continue to operate under
current regulations. These changes support the retention of existing fossil fuel terminals by
designating them as a limited use, as opposed to a non-conforming use, that allows the terminals to
continue to operate and invest in upgrades and supports opportunities for growth through
exceptions, such as aviation or renewable fuels, to the storage capacity restrictions.
The City Council finds that the other types of anti-displacement mitigation measures identified in
this policy are not applicable to Zoning Code changes that affect allowed uses in industrial zones.
Policy 3.4. All ages and abilities. Strive for a built environment that provides a safe, healthful, and
attractive environment for people of all ages and abilities.
88. Finding:  The City Council interprets this policy to be focused on creating a supportive built
environment for children, the elderly and people with disabilities. Specifically, the policy is focused
on the built environment of centers, corridors and residential areas where children, the elderly and
people with disabilities inhabit the city. The FFTZ amendments are limited to changes allowed in
industrial zones and do not impact centers, corridors and residential areas.  Therefore, Council finds
that this policy does not apply.
To the extent the policy does apply to individuals that work in the industrial zones, the FFTZ
amendments maintain Portland’s diverse employment opportunities because the changes do not
include map changes, nor do they allow for new incompatible land uses in industrial areas.
Therefore, these changes will continue to provide the same opportunities for employment in
Portland’s employment districts.
Policy 3.5. Energy and resource efficiency. Support energy-efficient, resource-efficient, and
sustainable development and transportation patterns through land use and transportation planning.
89. Findings:  The City Council interprets this policy to mean that land use and transportation planning
should aid in creating efficient and sustainable development patterns. The City Council finds that
this policy applies to the city as whole and does not require the City Council to ensure that
individual businesses or industries are more energy-efficient, resource-efficient, or sustainable.
Rather, the policy requires City Council to consider how city-wide development and transportation
plans can create patterns that are more efficient. The FFTZ amendments do not include map
changes, nor do they allow for new incompatible land uses, therefore, will not significantly change
the development pattern in Portland’s industrial districts. The FFTZ amendments do not amend the
Citywide System Plan or the Transportation System Plan. Therefore, these changes will continue to
support the sustainable development and transportation patterns across the city as a whole.
Policy 3.6. Land efficiency. Provide strategic investments and incentives to leverage infill,
redevelopment, and promote intensification of scarce urban land while protecting environmental
quality.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

90. Findings:  The City Council interprets this policy to guide investment and incentive decisions, this
ordinance is not that type of decision. The FFTZ amendments do not amend the Citywide System
Plan or the Transportation System Plan, which guide the City’s infrastructure investment decisions.
The City’s Enterprise Zone program, which provides a property tax exemption to industrial firms, is
one of the programs in which the City of Portland provides strategic assistance to businesses. These
changes do not affect that program, and FFTs that make new capital investments remain eligible for
that program. The FFTZ amendments do not amend the Greenway Overlay Zone standards or
review process. Therefore, the City continues to plan for strategic investments and incentives in the
industrial districts, while protecting environmental quality.
Policy 3.7. Integrate nature. Integrate nature and use green infrastructure throughout Portland.
91. Findings: No changes to greenway or environmental overlay zones, stormwater requirements, or
tree code are a part of this ordinance. This policy does not apply.
Policy 3.8. Leadership and innovation in design. Encourage high-performance design and
development that demonstrates Portland’s leadership in the design of the built environment,
commitment to a more equitable city, and ability to experiment and generate innovative design
solutions.
92. Finding:  The FFTZ amendments are use limitations for one type of use found in Portland’s industrial
areas. These changes support the retention of existing fossil fuel terminals by designating them as a
limited use that allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in upgrades and supports
opportunities for growth through exceptions, such as aviation or renewable fuels. Further, the use
limitations encourage innovation to FFTs to replace and reconfigure existing storage tank capacity
to increase safety.
Policy 3.9. Growth and development. Evaluate the potential impacts of planning and investment
decisions, significant new infrastructure, and significant new development on the physical
characteristics of neighborhoods and their residents, particularly under-served and under-represented
communities, with attention to displacement and affordability impacts. Identify and implement
strategies to mitigate the anticipated impacts.
93. Finding:  The City Council finds that this policy requires the City Council to assess the impacts of
planning decisions on neighborhoods and their residents, particularly those that are under-served
and under-represented. The City Council finds that one of the ways that under-served and under-
represented communities can be impacted is through access to employment opportunities,
especially in industrial areas that can have more jobs with higher wages for people without college
degrees. The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do they allow for new
incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes maintain employment opportunities in Portland’s
industrial districts. These regulations apply to only one type of business that makes up a minority
part of the businesses found in Portland’s industrial districts. The remaining industrial uses continue
to operate under current regulations. These changes apply to one type of use in the industrial
zones, therefore, these changes will not have a significant impact on industrial areas, including the
employment opportunities.  These changes will not impact the physical characteristics of
neighborhoods or result in increased displacement or affordability impacts, therefore no
mitigations strategies have been identified.
Policy 3.10. Rural, urbanizable, and urban land. Preserve the rural character of rural land outside the
Regional Urban Growth Boundary. Limit urban development of urbanizable land beyond the City
Limits until it is annexed and full urban services are extended.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

94. Finding:  The FFTZ amendments apply to one type of use in the industrial zones, therefore, these
changes will not have a significant impact on rural land outside the UGB. This policy does not apply.
Policy 3.11. Significant places. Enhance and celebrate significant places throughout Portland with
symbolic features or iconic structures that reinforce local identity, histories, and cultures and
contribute to way-finding throughout the city. Consider these especially at:
• High-visibility intersections
• Attractions
• Schools, libraries, parks, and other civic places
• Bridges
• Rivers
• Viewpoints and view corridor locations
• Historically or culturally significant places
• Connections to volcanic buttes and other geologic and natural landscape features
• Neighborhood boundaries and transitions
95. Finding:  The existing FFTs are near significant places, such as the St Johns Bridge and the
Willamette River, but are not considered significant places that should be enhanced or celebrated.
This policy does not apply.
Centers
Policy 3.12. Role of centers. Enhance centers as anchors of complete neighborhoods that include
concentrations of commercial and public services, housing, employment, gathering places, and green
spaces.
Policy 3.13. Variety of centers. Plan for a range of centers across the city to enhance local, equitable
access to services, and expand housing opportunities.
Policy 3.14. Housing in centers. Provide housing capacity for enough population to support a broad
range of commercial services, focusing higher-density housing within a half-mile of the center core.
Policy 3.15. Investments in centers. Encourage public and private investment in infrastructure,
economic development, and community services in centers to ensure that all centers will support the
populations they serve.
Policy 3.16. Government services. Encourage the placement of services in centers, including schools
and colleges, health services, community centers, daycare, parks and plazas, library services, and
justice services.
Policy 3.17. Arts and culture. Ensure that land use plans and infrastructure investments allow for and
incorporate arts, culture, and performance arts as central components of centers.
Policy 3.18. Accessibility. Design centers to be compact, safe, attractive, and accessible places, where
the street environment makes access by transit, walking, biking, and mobility devices such as
wheelchairs, safe and attractive for people of all ages and abilities.
Policy 3.19. Center connections. Connect centers to each other and to other key local and regional
destinations, such as schools, parks, and employment areas, by frequent and convenient transit,
bicycle sharing, bicycle routes, pedestrian trails and sidewalks, and electric vehicle charging stations.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy 3.20. Green infrastructure in centers. Integrate nature and green infrastructure into centers
and enhance public views and connections to the surrounding natural features.
96. Finding:  Policies 3.12 through 3.20 provide direction on the desired characteristics and functions of
centers. The FFTZ amendments do not change the center designations on the Urban Design
Framework. The FFTZ amendments change allowed uses in the City’s industrial areas. There are no
FFTs located in centers. These policies do not apply.
Central City
Policy 3.21. Role of the Central City. Encourage continued growth and investment in the Central City,
and recognize its unique role as the region’s premier center for jobs, services, and civic and cultural
institutions that support the entire city and region.
Policy 3.22. Model Urban Center. Promote the Central City as a living laboratory that demonstrates
how the design and function of a dense urban center can concurrently provide equitable benefits to
human health, the natural environment, and the local economy.
Policy 3.23. Central City employment. Encourage the growth of the Central City’s regional share of
employment and continue its growth as the region’s unique center for innovation and exchange
through commerce, employment, arts, culture, entertainment, tourism, education, and government.
Policy 3.24. Central City housing. Encourage the growth of the Central City as Portland’s and the
region’s largest center with the highest concentrations of housing and with a diversity of housing
options and services.
Policy 3.25. Transportation hub. Enhance the Central City as the region’s multimodal transportation
hub and optimize regional access as well as the movement of people and goods among key
destinations.
Policy 3.26. Public places. Promote public places and the Willamette River waterfront in the Central
City as places of business and social activity and gathering for the people of its districts and the
broader region.
97. Finding:  Policies 3.21 through 3.26 provide direction on the desired characteristics and functions of
the Central City. The FFTZ amendments do not change the Central City boundary on the Urban
Design Framework. The FFTZ amendments change allowed uses in the City’s industrial areas. There
are no FFTs located in the Central City. These policies do not apply.
Gateway Regional Center
Policy 3.27 Role of Gateway. Encourage growth and investment in Gateway to enhance its role as East
Portland’s center of employment, commercial, and public services.
Policy 3.28 Housing. Encourage housing in Gateway, to create East Portland’s largest concentration of
high-density housing.
Policy 3.29 Transportation. Enhance Gateway’s role as a regional high-capacity transit hub that serves
as an anchor for East Portland’s multimodal transportation system.
Policy 3.30 Public places. Enhance the public realm and public places in Gateway to provide a vibrant
and attractive setting for business and social activity that serves East Portland residents and the
region.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

98. Finding:  Policies 3.27 through 3.30 provide direction on the desired characteristics and functions of
the Gateway Regional Center. The FFTZ amendments do not change the regional center boundary
on the Urban Design Framework. The FFTZ amendments change allowed uses in the City’s industrial
areas. There are no FFTs located in the Gateway Regional Center. These policies do not apply.
Town Centers
Policy 3.31 Role of Town Centers. Enhance Town Centers as successful places that serve the needs of
surrounding neighborhoods as well as a wider area, and contain higher concentrations of
employment, institutions, commercial and community services, and a wide range of housing options.
Policy 3.32 Housing. Provide for a wide range of housing types in Town Centers, which are intended to
generally be larger in scale than the surrounding residential areas. There should be sufficient zoning
capacity within a half-mile walking distance of a Town Center to accommodate 7,000 households.
Policy 3.33 Transportation. Improve Town Centers as multimodal transportation hubs that optimize
access from the broad area of the city they serve and are linked to the region’s high-capacity transit
system.
Policy 3.34 Public places. Provide parks or public squares within or near Town Centers to support their
roles as places of focused business and social activity.
99. Finding:  Policies 3.31 through 3.34 provide direction on the desired characteristics and functions of
the town centers. The FFTZ amendments do not change the boundary any of the Town Centers on
the Urban Design Framework. The FFTZ amendments change allowed uses in the City’s industrial
areas. There are no FFTs located in town centers. These policies do not apply.
Neighborhood Centers
Policy 3.35 Role of Neighborhood Centers. Enhance Neighborhood Centers as successful places that
serve the needs of surrounding neighborhoods. In Neighborhood Centers, provide for higher
concentrations of development, employment, commercial and community services, and a wider range
of housing options than the surrounding neighborhoods.
Policy 3.36 Housing. Provide for a wide range of housing types in Neighborhood Centers, which are
intended to generally be larger in scale than the surrounding residential areas, but smaller than Town
Centers. There should be sufficient zoning capacity within a half-mile walking distance of a
Neighborhood Center to accommodate 3,500 households.
Policy 3.37 Transportation. Design Neighborhood Centers as multimodal transportation hubs that are
served by frequent-service transit and optimize pedestrian and bicycle access from adjacent
neighborhoods.
Policy 3.38 Public places. Provide small parks or plazas within or near Neighborhood Centers to
support their roles as places of local activity and gathering.
100. Finding:  Policies 3.35 through 3.38 provide direction on the desired characteristics and functions of
neighborhood centers. The FFTZ amendments do not change the neighborhood center boundaries
on the Urban Design Framework. The FFTZ amendments change allowed uses in the City’s industrial
areas. There are no FFTs located in neighborhood centers. These policies do not apply.

Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Inner Ring Districts
Policy 3.39 Growth. Expand the range of housing and employment opportunities in the Inner Ring
Districts. Emphasize growth that replaces gaps in the historic urban fabric, such as redevelopment of
surface parking lots and 20th century auto-oriented development.
Policy 3.40 Corridors. Guide growth in corridors to transition to mid-rise scale close to the Central
City, especially along Civic Corridors.
Policy 3.41 Distinct identities. Maintain and enhance the distinct identities of the Inner Ring Districts
and their corridors. Use and expand existing historic preservation and design review tools to
accommodate growth in ways that identify and preserve historic resources and enhance the
distinctive characteristics of the Inner Ring Districts, especially in areas experiencing significant
development.
Policy 3.42 Diverse residential areas. Provide a diversity of housing opportunities in the Inner Ring
Districts’ residential areas. Encourage approaches that preserve or are compatible with existing
historic properties in these areas. Acknowledge that these areas are historic assets and should retain
their established characteristics and development patterns, even as Inner Ring centers and corridors
grow. Apply base zones in a manner that takes historic character and adopted design guidelines into
account.
Policy 3.43 Active transportation. Enhance the role of the Inner Ring Districts’ extensive transit,
bicycle, and pedestrian networks in conjunction with land uses that optimize the ability for more
people to utilize this network. Improve the safety of pedestrian and bike connections to the Central
City. Strengthen transit connections between the Inner Ring Districts and to the Central City.
101. Finding:  Policies 3.39 through 3.43 provide direction on the desired characteristics and functions of
the Inner Ring Districts. The FFTZ amendments change allowed uses in the City’s industrial areas.
There are no FFTs located in the Inner Ring Districts. These policies do not apply.
Corridors
Policy 3.44. Growth and mobility. Coordinate transportation and land use strategies along corridors
to accommodate growth and mobility needs for people of all ages and abilities.
Policy 3.45. Connections. Improve corridors as multimodal connections providing transit, pedestrian,
bicycle, and motor vehicle access and that serve the freight needs of centers and neighborhood
business districts.
Policy 3.46. Design. Encourage street design that balances the important transportation functions of
corridors with their roles as the setting for commercial activity and residential living.
Policy 3.47. Green infrastructure in corridors. Enhance corridors with distinctive green infrastructure,
including landscaped stormwater facilities, extensive tree plantings, and other landscaping that both
provide environmental function and contribute to a quality pedestrian environment.
102. Finding:  Policies 3.44 through 3.47 provide direction on the desired characteristics and functions of
corridors. The FFTZ amendments do not change the boundary of corridors on the Urban Design
Framework. The FFTZ amendments change allowed uses in the City’s industrial areas. There are no
FFTs located in corridors. These policies do not apply.

Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Civic Corridors
Policy 3.48. Integrated land use and mobility. Enhance Civic Corridors as distinctive places that are
models of ecological urban design, with transit-supportive densities of housing and employment,
prominent street trees and other green features, and high-quality transit service and pedestrian and
bicycle facilities.
Policy 3.49. Design great places. Improve public streets and sidewalks along Civic Corridors to support
the vitality of business districts, create distinctive places, provide a safe, healthy, and attractive
pedestrian environment, and contribute to quality living environments for residents.
Policy 3.50. Mobility corridors. Improve Civic Corridors as key mobility corridors of citywide
importance that accommodate all modes of transportation within their right-of-way or on nearby
parallel routes.
Policy 3.51. Freight. Maintain freight mobility and access on Civic Corridors that are also Major or
Priority Truck Streets.
103. Finding:  The FFTZ amendments change allowed uses in the City’s industrial areas. There are no
FFTs located in civic corridors. These policies do not apply.
Neighborhood Corridors
Policy 3.52. Neighborhood Corridors. Enhance Neighborhood Corridors as important places that
support vibrant neighborhood business districts with quality multi-family housing, while providing
transportation connections that link neighborhoods.
104. Finding:  Policies 3.48 through 3.51 provide direction on the desired characteristics and functions of
civic corridors. The FFTZ amendments do not change the boundary of civic corridors on the Urban
Design Framework. The FFTZ amendments change allowed uses in the City’s industrial areas. There
are no FFTs located in neighborhood corridors. These policies do not apply.
Transit Station Areas
Policy 3.53. Transit-oriented development. Encourage transit-oriented development and transit-
supportive concentrations of housing and jobs, and multimodal connections at and adjacent to high-
capacity transit stations.
Policy 3.54. Community connections. Integrate transit stations into surrounding communities and
enhance pedestrian and bicycle facilities (including bike sharing) to provide safe and accessible
connections to key destinations beyond the station area.
Policy 3.55. Transit station area safety. Design transit areas to improve pedestrian, bicycle, and
personal safety.
Policy 3.56. Center stations. Encourage transit stations in centers to provide high density
concentrations of housing and commercial uses that maximize the ability of residents to live close to
both high-quality transit and commercial services.
Policy 3.57. Employment stations. Encourage concentrations of jobs and employment-focused land
uses in and around stations in employment-zoned areas.
Policy 3.58. Transit neighborhood stations. Encourage concentrations of mixed-income residential
development and supportive commercial services close to transit neighborhood stations. Transit
neighborhood stations serve mixed-use areas that are not in major centers.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy 3.59. Destination stations. Enhance connections between major destinations and transit
facilities and strengthen the role of these station areas as places of focused activity.
105. Finding:  Policies 3.53 through 3.59 provide direction on the desired characteristics and functions of
transit station areas. The FFTZ amendments do not change the boundary of civic corridors on the
Urban Design Framework. The FFTZ amendments change allowed uses in the City’s industrial areas.
There are no FFTs located in transit station areas. These policies do not apply.
City Greenways
Policy 3.60. Connections. Create a network of distinctive and attractive City Greenways that link
centers, parks, schools, rivers, natural areas, and other key community destinations.
Policy 3.61. Integrated system. Create an integrated City Greenways system that includes regional
trails through natural areas and along Portland’s rivers, connected to neighborhood greenways, and
heritage parkways.
Policy 3.62. Multiple benefits. Design City Greenways that provide multiple benefits that contribute to
Portland’s pedestrian, bicycle, green infrastructure, and parks and open space systems.
Policy 3.63. Design. Use design options such as distinctive street design, motor vehicle diversion,
landscaping, tree plantings, scenic views, and other appropriate design options, to create City
Greenways that extend the experience of open spaces and nature into neighborhoods, while
improving stormwater management and calming traffic.
106. Finding:  Policies 3.60 through 3.63 provide direction on the desired characteristics and functions of
city greenways. The FFTZ amendments do not change the city greenway designations on the Urban
Design Framework. The FFTZ amendments change allowed uses in the City’s industrial areas. There
are no FFTs located along city greenways. These policies do not apply.
Urban habitat corridors
Policy 3.64. Urban habitat corridors. Establish a system of connected, well-functioning, and diverse
habitat corridors that link habitats in Portland and the region, facilitate safe fish and wildlife access
and movement through and between habitat areas, enhance the quality and connectivity of existing
habitat corridors, and establish new habitat corridors in developed areas.
Policy 3.65. Habitat connection tools. Improve habitat corridors using a mix of tools including natural
resource protection, property acquisition, natural resource restoration, tree planting and landscaping
with native plants, and ecological design integrated with new development.
Policy 3.66. Connect habitat corridors. Ensure that planned connections between habitat corridors,
greenways, and trails are located and designed to support the functions of each element, and create
positive interrelationships between the elements, while also protecting habitat functions, fish, and
wildlife.
107. Finding:  Policies 3.64 through 3.66 provide direction on the desired characteristics and functions of
urban habitat corridors. The FFTZ amendments do not change the urban habitat corridor
designations on the Urban Design Framework. The Willamette and Columbia Rivers are considered
urban habitat corridors. The FFTZ amendments support the urban habitat corridor policies by
reducing the risk associated with a major earthquake. The first step in making the current situation
better is to ensure that the situation does not get worse by continuing to allow the unlimited
increase in fossil fuel terminal storage tank capacity in a high risk area. The FFTZ amendments are a
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

regulatory approach that will limit the size of new fossil fuel terminals and prohibit the expansion of
storage capacity at existing fossil fuel terminals, with limited exceptions for aviation and renewable
fuels, which will be an improvement compared to the current regulations that allow for unlimited
growth in fossil fuel terminals. Further, by designating existing FFTs as a limited use allows the
terminals to continue to operate and invest in facilities that reduce the risks and improve their
ability to withstand a major earthquake, which can minimize environmental impacts in the event of
a major earthquake. No changes to the environmental or greenway overlay zones are proposed as
part of this project, therefore the natural resource values and functions that contribute the habitat
functions will be maintained.
Employment areas
Policy 3.67. Employment area geographies. Consider the land development and transportation needs
of Portland’s employment geographies when creating and amending land use plans and making
infrastructure investments.
108.  The City Council interprets this policy to require the City Council to consider the development and
transportation needs of Portland’s employment geographies when making planning and investment
decisions, but the policy does not require the City Council to accommodate all industries and all
geographies.
As described in the Economic Opportunities Analysis (EOA), Portland has a diverse economy with a
wide range of businesses and employment opportunities that are distributed across the Central
City, neighborhood commercial areas, campus institutions and industrial areas. The FFTZ
amendments maintain Portland’s diverse economy because the changes do not include map
changes, nor do they allow for new incompatible land uses in industrial areas. Therefore, these
changes will continue to provide the same opportunities for employment in Portland’s employment
area geographies. The FFTZ regulations apply to only one type of business that makes up a minority
part of the businesses found in Portland’s employment districts. Further, the City Council
considered the unique needs of the FFTs and mitigated the limits on expansion of fossil fuel storage
capacity by designating existing fossil fuel terminals as a limited use that allows the terminals to
maintain, preserve and continue to operate and improve their intermodal facilities and supports
opportunities for growth through a number of exceptions, such as aviation or renewable fuels, to
the storage capacity restrictions.
Policy 3.68. Regional Truck Corridors. Enhance designated streets to accommodate forecast freight
growth and support intensified industrial use in nearby freight districts. See Figure 3-7 — Employment
Areas. Designated regional truckways and priority truck streets (Transportation System Plan
classifications are shown to illustrate this network).
109. Finding:  The City Council interprets the verb “enhance”, which is not defined in the 2035
Comprehensive Plan, to mean to intensify or improve. The City Council interprets this policy to
acknowledge the role that regional truck corridors play in our transportation system and to take
steps to improve those functions. Portland’s approach to regional truck corridors is unchanged
because the FFTZ amendments change the Zoning Code and do not amend the Citywide System
Plan or the Transportation System Plan. This policy does not apply.
Rivers Pattern Area
Policy 3.69. Historic and multi-cultural significance. Recognize, restore, and protect the historic and
multi-cultural significance of the Willamette and Columbia Rivers, including current activities such as
subsistence fishing of legally-permitted fish species.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

110. Finding:  The verb “recognize” is defined in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan as to acknowledge and
treat as valid. The City Council interprets this policy to acknowledge the multi-cultural significance
that the rivers play in our community and to take steps to improve those functions. Most of
Portland’s employment and industrial zones, including the Portland Harbor, are in areas with high
to very high levels of liquefaction susceptibility, as documented by the 2018 DOGAMI Earthquake
Regional Impact Analysis. Fossil fuel infrastructure poses considerable risks in the event of a major
earthquake. Continuing to allow the unlimited increase in storage capacity at FFTs in a high risk
area increases the risk to the Willamette and Columbia Rivers. The FFTZ amendments are a
regulatory approach to help protect the rivers by limiting the size of new fossil fuel terminals and
prohibiting the expansion of storage capacity at existing fossil fuel terminals, with limited
exceptions for aviation and renewable fuels, which is an improvement over the current regulations
that allow for unlimited growth in FFTs.
Policy 3.70. River transportation. Recognize and enhance the roles of the Willamette and Columbia
rivers as part of Portland’s historic, current, and future transportation infrastructure, including for
freight, commerce, commuting, and other public and private transportation functions.
111. Finding:  The verb “recognize” is defined in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan as to acknowledge and
treat as valid. The City Council interprets the verb “enhance”, which is not defined in the 2035
Comprehensive Plan, to mean to intensify or improve. The City Council interprets this policy to
acknowledge the role that the rivers play in our transportation system and to take steps to improve
those functions. The City Council finds that the policy concerns transportation infrastructure, which
is managed through the CSP and TSP.  This policy does not apply because the ordinance does not
amend the City’s adopted CSP or TSP.
Policy 3.71. Recreation. Improve conditions along and within the Willamette and Columbia rivers to
accommodate a diverse mix of recreational users and activities. Designate and invest in strategically-
located sites along the length of Portland’s riverfronts for passive or active recreation activities that
are compatible with nearby land uses, historically and culturally important sites, significant habitat
areas, restoration sites, and native fish and wildlife usage.
112. Finding:  Six of the 11 existing FFTs have frontage on the Willamette River. However, there are no
recreation access points near these terminals. These amendments do not change any plans for
recreation sites on the Willamette and Columbia rivers, therefore this policy does not apply.
Policy 3.72 Industry and port facilities. Enhance the regionally significant economic infrastructure that
includes Oregon’s largest seaport and largest airport, unique multimodal freight, rail, and harbor
access; the region’s critical energy hub; and proximity to anchor manufacturing and distribution
facilities.
113. Finding:  The City Council interprets the verb “enhance”, which is not defined in the 2035
Comprehensive Plan, to mean to intensify or improve. The City Council finds that the policy requires
Council to improve the regionally significant infrastructure, which is done through the CSP and TSP.
This policy does not apply because the ordinance does not amend the City’s adopted CSP or TSP,
therefore the City continues to plan for public infrastructure investments to maintain and
strengthen the multimodal transportation infrastructure in the industrial areas where the FFTs are
located.
Further, the City Council acknowledges that the FFTs make up a significant portion of the region’s
critical energy infrastructure hub in the Portland Harbor. The FFTZ amendments support private
investment to enhance the unique multimodal freight, rail, and harbor access because the
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

ordinance only restricts new fossil fuel storage tank capacity and does not regulate transloading
facilities, docks or pipelines – facilities that are key components of the multimodal freight
transportation system. Existing FFTs and other industrial uses can make investments in multimodal
freight facilities.
Policy 3.73. Habitat. Enhance the roles of the Willamette and Columbia rivers and their confluence as
an ecological hub that provides locally and regionally significant habitat for fish and wildlife and
habitat restoration opportunities.
114. Finding:  Six of the 11 existing FFTs have frontage on the Willamette River. These parcels will
continue to be subject to development regulations for flood plains and natural resources that
protect significant habitat. Furthermore, no changes to existing protections in the greenway overlay
zones are proposed. This policy does not apply.
Policy 3.74. Commercial activities. Enhance the roles of the Willamette and Columbia rivers in
supporting local and regional business and commerce, including commercial fishing, tourism,
recreation, and leisure.
115. Finding:  The City Council interprets the verb “enhance”, which is not defined in the 2035
Comprehensive Plan, to mean to intensify or improve. The FFTZ regulations apply to only one type
of business that makes up a minority part of the businesses found in Portland’s employment
districts, therefore, the FFTZ amendments support Portland’s diverse economy because the
changes do not include map changes, nor do they allow for new incompatible land uses in industrial
areas, therefore there is no adverse impact to the land supply and economic opportunities along
the Willamette and Columbia rivers. The limits on expansion of fossil fuel storage capacity are
mitigated by designating existing fossil fuel terminals as a limited use that allows the terminals to
maintain, preserve and continue to operate and improve their intermodal facilities and supports
opportunities for growth through a number of exceptions, such as aviation or renewable fuels, to
the storage capacity restrictions. In addition, the ordinance does not regulate transloading facilities,
docks or pipelines – facilities that are key components of the multimodal freight transportation
system. Existing FFTs and other industrial uses can make investments in multimodal freight
facilities.
With respect to fishing, tourism, recreation and leisure, the City Council interprets this policy to
require that the first step in making the current situation better is to ensure that the situation does
not get worse. Continuing to allow the increase in FFTs in a high risk area increases the risk to other
businesses that rely on the rivers. The FFTZ amendments are a regulatory approach that will limit
the size of new fossil fuel terminals and prohibit the expansion of storage capacity at existing fossil
fuel terminals, with limited exceptions for aviation and renewable fuels, which will be an
improvement compared to the current regulations that allow for unlimited growth in FFTs. The
FFTZ regulations support other commercial uses of the rivers by designating existing FFTs as a
limited use, which allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in facilities that reduce
the risks and improve their ability to withstand a major earthquake. Further, the use limitations
(33.140.100.B.17.a) provide flexibility to FFTs to replace and reconfigure existing storage tank
capacity to increase safety.
Policy 3.75. River neighborhoods. Enhance the strong river orientation of residential areas that are
located along the Willamette and Columbia Rivers.
116. Finding:  The FFTZ amendments regulate the allowed uses in Portland’s industrial areas.  None of
the FFTs are in residential areas. This policy does not apply.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy 3.76. River access. Enhance and complete Portland’s system of river access points and riverside
trails, including the Willamette Greenway Trail, and strengthen active transportation connections
between neighborhoods and the rivers.
117. Finding:  Six of the 11 existing FFTs have frontage on the Willamette River. However, there are no
access points near these terminals. These amendments do not change any plans for recreation sites
on the Willamette and Columbia rivers, therefore this policy does not apply.
Policy 3.77. River management and coordination. Coordinate with federal, state, regional, special
districts, and other agencies to address issues of mutual interest and concern, including economic
development, recreation, water transportation, flood and floodplain management and protection,
regulatory compliance, permitting, emergency management, endangered species recovery, climate
change preparation, Portland Harbor Superfund, brownfield cleanup, and habitat restoration.
118. Finding:  The City Council interprets this policy to guide intergovernmental coordination on the
management of the rivers. Other government agencies received notice from the 35-day DLCD
notice and the City’s legislative notice.  In the initial adoption of the ordinance, the City received
testimony from the Port of Portland. The City responded to the issues raised by the Port by
amending the code to include an exception for the storage of fossil fuels for exclusive use at an
airport, surface passenger terminal, marine, truck or air freight terminal, drydock, ship or barge
servicing facility, rail yard, or as part of a fleet vehicle servicing facility. The City did not receive any
requests from other government agencies to modify the FFTZ amendments.
The City has an established procedure for coordinated review of river-related development,
including docks, in areas where city, state and federal agencies all have jurisdiction. The
Streamlining Team was established pursuant to a 2003 Intergovernmental Agreement between the
City of Portland (City), NOAA Fisheries, Army Corps of Engineers (Corps), and the U.S. Fish and
Wildlife Service (USFWS). The FFTZ amendments do not change these procedures and there is no
impact to this coordinated process.
Policy 3.78 Columbia River. Enhance the role of the Columbia River for river dependent industry, fish
and wildlife habitat, subsistence and commercial fisheries, floating- and land-based neighborhoods,
recreational uses, and water transportation.
119. Finding:  The City Council interprets the verb “enhance”, which is not defined in the 2035
Comprehensive Plan, to mean to intensify or improve. The City Council interprets this policy to
acknowledge the role that the Columbia River plays in our city and to take steps to improve those
functions. The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do they allow for new
incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes will continue to provide the same opportunities
on the Columbia River. The City Council interprets this goal to apply to districts as whole and not to
individual businesses or sectors of business. These regulations apply to only one type of business
that is not found on the Columbia River. The remaining industrial uses continue to operate under
current regulations.
Policy 3.79 Willamette River North Reach. Enhance the role of the Willamette River North Reach for
river dependent industry, fish and wildlife habitat, and as an amenity for riverfront neighborhoods and
recreational users.
120. Finding:  The City Council interprets the verb “enhance”, which is not defined in the 2035
Comprehensive Plan, to mean to intensify or improve. The FFTZ regulations apply to only one type
of business that makes up a minority part of the businesses found in Portland’s employment
districts, therefore, the FFTZ amendments support Portland’s diverse economy because the
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

changes do not include map changes, nor do they allow for new incompatible land uses in industrial
areas, therefore there is no adverse impact to the land supply and economic opportunities along
the Willamette and Columbia rivers. The limits on expansion of fossil fuel storage capacity are
mitigated by designating existing fossil fuel terminals as a limited use that allows the terminals to
maintain, preserve and continue to operate and improve their intermodal facilities and supports
opportunities for growth through a number of exceptions, such as aviation or renewable fuels, to
the storage capacity restrictions. These regulations apply to only one type of river dependent
industry. The remaining industrial uses continue to operate under current regulations.
Policy 3.80. Willamette River Central Reach. Enhance the role of the Willamette River Central Reach
as the Central City and region’s primary riverfront destination for recreation, history and culture,
emergency response, water transportation, and as habitat for fish and wildlife.
Policy 3.81 Willamette River South Reach. Enhance the role of the Willamette River South Reach as
fish and wildlife habitat, a place to recreate, and as an amenity for riverfront neighborhoods and
others.
121. Finding:  For policies 3.80 and 3.81, the City Council interprets the verb “enhance”, which is not
defined in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, to mean to intensify or improve. The City Council
interprets this policy to acknowledge the role that the Willamette River plays in our city and to take
steps to improve those functions. These regulations apply to only one type of business that is not
found on Central and South reaches of the Willamette River. The remaining industrial uses continue
to operate under current regulations. These policies do not apply.
Policy 3.82. Willamette River Greenway. Maintain multi-objective plans and regulations to guide
development, infrastructure investments, and natural resource protection and enhancement within
and along the Willamette Greenway.
122. Finding:  The City Council finds that this policy is implemented through the Greenway Overlay Zones
(PCC 33.440), which is not amended by this ordinance. This policy does not apply.
Central City Pattern Area
Policy 3.83. Central City districts. Enhance the distinct identities of the Central City's districts.
Policy 3.84. Central City river orientation. Enhance and strengthen access and orientation to the
Willamette River in the Central City and increase river-focused activities.
Policy 3.85. Central City pedestrian system. Maintain and expand the Central City’s highly
interconnected pedestrian system.
Policy 3.86. Central City bicycle system. Expand and improve the Central City’s bicycle system.
123. Finding:  Policies 3.83 through 3.86 provide direction on the desired characteristics and functions of
the Central City Pattern Area. The FFTZ amendments affect allowed uses in industrial zones outside
the Central City. These policies do not apply.
Inner Neighborhoods Pattern Area
Policy 3.87 Inner Neighborhoods main streets. Maintain and enhance the Streetcar Era pattern of
street-oriented buildings along Civic and Neighborhood corridors.
Policy 3.88 Inner Neighborhoods street patterns. Preserve the area’s urban fabric of compact blocks
and its highly interconnected grid of streets.
Policy 3.89 Inner Neighborhoods infill. Fill gaps in the urban fabric through infill development on
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

vacant and underutilized sites and in the reuse of historic buildings on adopted inventories.
Policy 3.90 Inner Neighborhoods active transportation. Use the extensive street, sidewalk, and
bikeway system and multiple connections to the Central City as a key part of Portland’s active
transportation system
Policy 3.91 Inner Neighborhoods residential areas. Continue the patterns of small, connected blocks,
regular lot patterns, and streets lined by planting strips and street trees in Inner Neighborhood
residential areas.
124. Finding:  Policies 3.87 through 3.91 provide direction on the desired characteristics and functions of
the Inner Neighborhoods Pattern Area. The FFTZ amendments affect allowed uses in industrial
zones. There are not existing FFTs in the Inner Neighborhoods Pattern Area. These policies do not
apply.
Eastern Neighborhoods Pattern Area
Policy 3.92 Eastern Neighborhoods street, block, and lot pattern. Guide the evolving street and block
system in the Eastern Neighborhoods in ways that build on positive aspects of the area’s large blocks,
such as opportunities to continue mid-block open space patterns and create new connections through
blocks that make it easier to access community destinations.
Policy 3.93 Eastern Neighborhoods site development. Require that land be aggregated into larger
sites before land divisions and other redevelopment occurs. Require site plans which advance design
and street connectivity goals.
Policy 3.94 Eastern Neighborhoods trees and natural features. Encourage development and right-of-
way design that preserves and incorporates Douglas fir trees and groves, and that protects the area’s
streams, forests, wetlands, steep slopes, and buttes.
Policy 3.95 Eastern Neighborhoods buttes. Enhance public views of the area’s skyline of buttes and
stands of tall Douglas fir trees.
Policy 3.96 Eastern Neighborhoods corridor landscaping. Encourage landscaped building setbacks
along residential corridors on major streets.
Policy 3.97 Eastern Neighborhoods active transportation. Enhance access to centers, employment
areas, and other community destinations in Eastern Neighborhoods by ensuring that corridors have
safe and accessible pedestrian and bicycle facilities and creating additional secondary connections that
provide low-stress pedestrian and bicycle access.
125. Finding:  Policies 3.92 through 3.97 provide direction on the desired characteristics and functions of
the Eastern Neighborhoods Pattern Area. The FFTZ amendments affect allowed uses in industrial
zones. There are not existing FFTs in the Eastern Neighborhoods Pattern Area. These policies do not
apply.
Western Neighborhoods Pattern Area
Policy 3.98 Western Neighborhoods village character. Enhance the village character of the Western
Neighborhoods’ small commercial districts and increase opportunities for more people to live within
walking distance of these neighborhood anchors.
Policy 3.99 Western Neighborhoods active transportation. Provide safe and accessible pedestrian
and bicycle connections, as well as off-street trail connections, to and from residential neighborhoods.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy 3.100 Western Neighborhoods development. Encourage new development and infrastructure
to be designed to minimize impacts on the area’s streams, ravines, and forested slopes.
Policy 3.101 Western Neighborhoods habitat corridors. Preserve, enhance, and connect the area’s
network of habitat areas and corridors, streams, parks, and tree canopy.
Policy 3.102 Western Neighborhoods trails. Develop pedestrian-oriented connections and enhance
the Western Neighborhoods’ distinctive system of trails to increase safety, expand mobility, access to
nature, and active living opportunities in the area.
126. Finding:  Policies 3.98 through 3.102 provide direction on the desired characteristics and functions
of the Western Neighborhoods Pattern Area. The FFTZ amendments affect allowed uses in
industrial zones. There are not existing FFTs in the Western Neighborhoods Pattern Area. These
policies do not apply.
Chapter 4: Design and Development
Goal 4.A: Context-sensitive design and development. New development is designed to respond to
and enhance the distinctive physical, historic, and cultural qualities of its location, while
accommodating growth and change.
127. Finding:  The City Council interprets the goals and policies of this chapter to address site design and
the relationship between building, site, streets and public realm, historic/ cultural preservation, and
the integration of nature.  The City Council finds that this chapter is about how Portland looks and
functions and how development should respect context. Most importantly, this chapter provides
the direction to protect human and environmental health and minimizes risk from natural hazards.
The FFTZ amendments regulate a land use (Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminals), but do not impose new
standards that regulate site design, or the relationship to the street or adjacent land uses.
Additionally, the changes do not impact how the terminals function beyond limits to fossil fuel
storage capacity.
Goal 4.B: Historic and cultural resources. Historic and cultural resources are integral parts of an urban
environment that continue to evolve and are preserved.
128. Finding:  Historic and cultural resources are located throughout the City, but very few are located in
the industrial zones where the FFTZ amendments change the allowed uses. There are no
designated Historic Landmarks or Districts in or immediately adjacent to any of the existing FFTs.
Existing historic resource protections are not being amended (Chapter 33.445).
Goal 4.C: Human and environmental health. Neighborhoods and development are efficiently
designed and built to enhance human and environmental health: they protect safety and livability;
support local access to healthy food; limit negative impacts on water, hydrology, and air quality;
reduce carbon emissions; encourage active and sustainable design; protect wildlife; address urban
heat islands; and integrate nature and the built environment.
129. Finding:  As relevant here, the City Council finds that this goal seeks to ensure that development is
designed and built in a manner that improves human and environmental health.  Human and
environmental health are improved by development that results in more safety and minimizes
negative impacts on the environment. Portland’s FFTs are within a disaster-prone area that is at risk
for a catastrophic Cascadia earthquake disaster. Most of Portland’s employment and industrial
zones are in areas with high to very high levels of liquefaction susceptibility, as documented by the
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

2018 DOGAMI Earthquake Regional Impact Analysis. Fossil fuel infrastructure poses considerable
risks to human and environmental health in the event of a major earthquake.
The City Council interprets this goal to mean that the first step in enhancing human and
environmental health is to stop increasing the risk. Continuing to allow the increase in FFTs in a high
risk area increases the risk to the surrounding industrial district and Portland as a whole. The FFTZ
amendments limit future risk by limiting the size of new fossil fuel terminals and prohibiting the
expansion of storage capacity at existing fossil fuel terminals, with limited exceptions for aviation
and renewable fuels. Further, by designating existing FFTs as a limited use, as opposed to a
prohibited nonconforming use, allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in facilities
that reduce the risks and improve their ability to withstand a major earthquake, which ultimately
can protect human and environmental health.
Goal 4.D: Urban resilience. Buildings, streets, and open spaces are designed to ensure long-term
resilience and to adjust to changing demographics, climate, and economy, and withstand and recover
from natural disasters.
130. Finding:  Portland’s FFTs are within a disaster-prone area that is at risk for a catastrophic Cascadia
earthquake disaster. Most of Portland’s employment and industrial zones are in areas with high to
very high levels of liquefaction susceptibility, as documented by the 2018 DOGAMI Earthquake
Regional Impact Analysis. Fossil fuel infrastructure poses considerable risks to human and
environmental health in the event of a major earthquake.
The City Council interprets this goal to mean building are designed for long-term resilience and can
recover from natural disasters. The City Council finds that the first step in making Portland more
resilient is to stop increasing the risk. Continuing to allow the increase in FFTs in a high risk area
increases the risk to the surrounding industrial district and the Willamette River. The FFTZ
amendments limit future risk by limiting the size of new fossil fuel terminals and prohibiting the
expansion of storage capacity at existing fossil fuel terminals, with limited exceptions for aviation
and renewable fuels. Further, by designating existing FFTs as a limited use, as opposed to a
prohibited nonconforming use, allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in facilities
that reduce the risks and improve their ability to withstand a major earthquake, which ultimately
can make Portland more resilient.
Context
Policy 4.1. Pattern areas. Encourage building and site designs that respect the unique built, natural,
historic, and cultural characteristics of Portland’s five pattern areas described in Chapter 3: Urban
Form.
Policy 4.2. Community identity. Encourage the development of character-giving design features that
are responsive to place and the cultures of communities.
Policy 4.3. Site and context. Encourage development that responds to and enhances the positive
qualities of site and context — the neighborhood, the block, the public realm, and natural features.
131. Finding:  The City Council interprets policies 4.1 through 4.3 as to provide general policy direction
on how to consider context for design and development standards. The City Council finds that in
the City’s industrial areas, the physical design features are less important and are less sensitive to
changes from new development.  The FFTZ amendments affect one type of allowed use in
employment and industrial zones and do not change development standards that apply to
development in those zones.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy 4.4. Natural features and green infrastructure. Integrate natural and green infrastructure such
as trees, green spaces, ecoroofs, gardens, green walls, and vegetated stormwater management
systems, into the urban environment. Encourage stormwater facilities that are designed to be a
functional and attractive element of public spaces, especially in centers and corridors.
132. Finding:  The FFTZ amendments affect one type of allowed use in employment and industrial zones
and do not change development standards that apply to development in those zones, including
those that apply to natural features and green infrastructure.
Policy 4.5. Pedestrian-oriented design. Enhance the pedestrian experience throughout Portland
through public and private development that creates accessible, safe, and attractive places for all
those who walk and/or use wheelchairs or other mobility devices.
133. Finding:  The FFTZ amendments affect one type of allowed use in employment and industrial zones
and do not change development standards that apply to development in those zones, including
those that apply to pedestrian-oriented design features.
Policy 4.6. Street orientation. Promote building and site designs that enhance the pedestrian
experience with windows, entrances, pathways, and other features that provide connections to the
street environment.
134. Finding:  The FFTZ amendments affect one type of allowed use in employment and industrial zones
and do not change development standards that apply to development in those zones, including
those that apply to street orientation.
Policy 4.7. Development and public spaces. Guide development to help create high-quality public
places and street environments while considering the role of adjacent development in framing,
shaping, and activating the public space of streets and urban parks.
135. Finding:  The FFTZ amendments affect one type of allowed use in employment and industrial zones
and do not change development standards that apply to development in those zones.
Policy 4.8. Alleys. Encourage the continued use of alleys for parking access, while preserving
pedestrian access. Expand the number of alley-facing accessory dwelling units.
136. Finding:  The FFTZ amendments affect one type of allowed use in employment and industrial zones
and do not change development standards that apply to development in those zones, including
those that apply to alleys.
Policy 4.9. Transitional urbanism. Encourage temporary activities and structures in places that are
transitioning to urban areas to promote job creation, entrepreneurship, active streets, and human
interaction.
137. Finding:  The City Council interprets this policy to relate to temporary commercial activities and
public gathering places outside of industrial areas. This policy does not apply.
Health and safety
Policy 4.10. Design for active living. Encourage development and building and site design that
promotes a healthy level of physical activity in daily life.
Policy 4.11. Access to light and air. Provide for public access to light and air by managing and shaping
the height and mass of buildings while accommodating urban-scale development.
Policy 4.12. Privacy and solar access. Encourage building and site designs that consider privacy and
solar access for residents and neighbors while accommodating urban-scale development.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy 4.13. Crime-preventive design. Encourage building, site, and public infrastructure design
approaches that help prevent crime.
Policy 4.14. Fire prevention and safety. Encourage building and site design that improves fire
prevention, safety, and reduces seismic risks.
138. Finding:  The City Council interprets policies 4.10 through 4.14 to relate to development in areas
where people live. The FFTZ amendments affect one type of allowed use in employment and
industrial zones and do not change development standards that apply to development in those
zones. This policy does not apply.
Residential areas
Policy 4.15. Residential area continuity and adaptability. Encourage more housing choices to
accommodate a wider diversity of family sizes, incomes, and ages, and the changing needs of
households over time. Allow adaptive reuse of existing buildings, the creation of accessory dwelling
units, and other arrangements that bring housing diversity that is compatible with the general scale
and patterns of residential areas.
Policy 4.16. Scale and patterns. Encourage design and development that complements the general
scale, character, and natural landscape features of neighborhoods. Consider building forms, scale,
street frontage relationships, setbacks, open space patterns, and landscaping. Allow for a range of
architectural styles and expression.
Policy 4.17. Demolitions. Encourage alternatives to the demolition of sound housing, such as
rehabilitation and adaptive reuse, especially affordable housing, and when new development would
provide no additional housing opportunities beyond replacement.
Policy 4.18. Compact single-family options. Encourage development and preservation of small
resource-efficient and affordable single-family homes in all areas of the city.
Policy 4.19. Resource efficient and healthy residential design and development. Support resource
efficient and healthy residential design and development.
139. Finding:  The City Council interprets policies 4.15 through 4.19 to relate to development inside
residential areas. The FFTZ amendments affect one type of allowed use in employment and
industrial zones and do not change development standards that apply to development in residential
areas. This policy does not apply.
Design and development of centers and corridors
Policy 4.20. Walkable scale. Focus services and higher-density housing in the core of centers to
support a critical mass of demand for commercial services and more walkable access for customers.
Policy 4.21. Street environment. Encourage development in centers and corridors to include
amenities that create a pedestrian-oriented environment and provide places for people to sit, spend
time, and gather.
Policy 4.22. Relationship between building height and street size. Encourage development in centers
and corridors that is responsive to street space width, thus allowing taller buildings on wider streets.
Policy 4.23. Design for pedestrian and bicycle access. Provide accessible sidewalks, high-quality
bicycle access, and frequent street connections and crossings in centers and corridors.
Policy 4.24. Drive-through facilities. Prohibit drive through facilities in the Central City, and limit new
development of new ones in the Inner Ring Districts and centers to support a pedestrian-oriented
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

environment.
Policy 4.25. Residential uses on busy streets. Improve the livability of places and streets with high
motor vehicle volumes. Encourage landscaped front setbacks, street trees, and other design
approaches to buffer residents from street traffic.
Policy 4.26. Active gathering places. Locate public squares, plazas, and other gathering places in
centers and corridors to provide places for community activity and social connections. Encourage
location of businesses, services, and arts adjacent to these spaces that relate to and promote the use
of the space.
Policy 4.27. Protect defining features. Protect and enhance defining places and features of centers
and corridors, including landmarks, natural features, and historic and cultural resources.
Policy 4.28. Historic buildings in centers and corridors. Protect and encourage the restoration and
improvement of historic resources in centers and corridors.
Policy 4.29. Public art. Encourage new development and public places to include design elements and
public art that contribute to the distinct identities of centers and corridors, and that highlight the
history and diverse cultures of neighborhoods.
140. Finding:  Policies 4.20 through 4.29 provide direction regarding design and development in centers
and corridors. The FFTZ amendments affect one type of allowed use in employment and industrial
zones and do not change development standards that apply to development in centers and
corridors. There are no existing FFTs in centers and corridors. These policies does not apply.
Transitions
Policy 4.30. Scale transitions. Create transitions in building scale in locations where higher-density
and higher-intensity development is adjacent to smaller-scale single-dwelling zoning. Ensure that new
high-density and large-scale infill development adjacent to single dwelling zones incorporates design
elements that soften transitions in scale and limit light and privacy impacts on adjacent residents.
Policy 4.31. Land use transitions. Improve the interface between non-residential uses and residential
uses in areas where commercial or employment uses are adjacent to residentially-zoned land.
Policy 4.32. Industrial edge. Protect non-industrially zoned parcels from the adverse impacts of
facilities and uses on industrially zoned parcels using a variety of tools, including but not limited to
vegetation, physical separation, land acquisition, and insulation to establish buffers between industrial
sanctuaries and adjacent residential or mixed-use areas to protect both the viability of long-term
industrial operations and the livability of adjacent areas.
141. Finding:  Policies 4.30 through 4.32 provide direction regarding transitions between different types
of land uses. The FFTZ amendments affect one type of allowed use in employment and industrial
zones and do not change development standards that apply to development in those zones. These
policies do not apply.
Off-site impacts
Policy 4.33. Off-site impacts. Limit and mitigate public health impacts, such as odor, noise, glare, light
pollution, air pollutants, and vibration that public facilities, land uses, or development may have on
adjacent residential or institutional uses, and on significant fish and wildlife habitat areas. Pay
attention to limiting and mitigating impacts to under-served and under-represented communities.
142. Finding:  The 2035 Comprehensive Plan defines the verb “limit” to mean to minimize or reduce
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

something or the effects of something relative to the current situation or to a potential future
situation. The verb “mitigate”, which is not defined in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, means to
make less severe. The City Council finds that this policy relates to impacts that public facilities or
land uses may have on neighboring residential or institutional uses and on significant habitats.
Further, the City Council interprets this policy to apply to non-residential uses, such as those
allowed in commercial and employment zones, that can have negative public health impacts on
adjacent residential and institutional uses. The FFTZ amendments do not change any of the
development standards that regulate these types of uses. These policies do not apply.
Policy 4.34. Auto-oriented facilities, uses, and exterior displays. Minimize the adverse impacts of
highways, auto-oriented uses, vehicle areas, drive-through areas, signage, and exterior display and
storage areas on adjacent residential uses.
Policy 4.35. Noise impacts. Encourage building and landscape design and land use patterns that limit
and/or mitigate negative noise impacts to building users and residents, particularly in areas near
freeways, regional truckways, major city traffic streets, and other sources of noise.
Policy 4.36. Air quality impacts. Encourage building and landscape design and land use patterns that
limit and/or mitigate negative air quality impacts to building users and residents, particularly in areas
near freeways, regional truckways, high traffic streets, and other sources of air pollution.
Policy 4.37. Diesel emissions. Encourage best practices to reduce diesel emissions and related impacts
when considering land use and public facilities that will increase truck or train traffic.
Policy 4.38. Light pollution. Encourage lighting design and practices that reduce the negative impacts
of light pollution, including sky glow, glare, energy waste, impacts to public health and safety,
disruption of ecosystems, and hazards to wildlife.
Policy 4.39. Airport noise. Partner with the Port of Portland to require compatible land use
designations and development within the noise-affected area of Portland International Airport, while
providing disclosure of the level of aircraft noise and mitigating the potential impact of noise within
the affected area.
Policy 4.40. Telecommunication facility impacts. Mitigate the visual impact of telecommunications
and broadcast facilities near residentially-zoned areas through physical design solutions.
143. Finding:  Policies 4.34 through 4.40 provide direction regarding transitions between different types
of land uses. The City Council interprets these policies to apply to non-residential uses that can
have negative impacts on adjacent residential and institutional uses. The FFTZ amendments do not
change any of the development standards that regulate these types of uses. These policies do not
apply.
Scenic resources
Policy 4.41. Scenic resources. Enhance and celebrate Portland’s scenic resources to reinforce local
identity, histories, and cultures and contribute toward way-finding throughout the city. Consider views
of mountains, hills, buttes, rivers, streams, wetlands, parks, bridges, the Central City skyline, buildings,
roads, art, landmarks, or other elements valued for their aesthetic appearance or symbolism.
Policy 4.42. Scenic resource protection. Protect and manage designated significant scenic resources
by maintaining scenic resource inventories, protection plans, regulations, and other tools.
Policy 4.43. Vegetation management. Maintain regulations and other tools for managing vegetation
in a manner that preserves or enhances designated significant scenic resources.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy 4.44. Building placement, height, and massing. Maintain regulations and other tools related to
building placement, height, and massing to preserve designated significant scenic resources.
Policy 4.45. Future development. Encourage new public and private development to create new
public viewpoints providing views of Portland’s rivers, bridges, surrounding mountains, hills and
buttes, the Central City skyline, and other landmark features.
144. Finding:  Policies 4.41 through 4.45 provide direction regarding Portland’s designated scenic
resources. The FFTZ amendments do not affect management of designated scenic resources. In
1991, the City adopted the Scenic Resources Protection Plan and applied a scenic (s) overlay zone
to protect significant scenic resources.  Two of the FFTs (BP West Coast and NuStar/Shore
Terminals) are in a (s) overlay zone.  The scenic resource protections (Chapter 33.480) are not
amended by this ordinance and the height limits associated with the (s) overlay zone will continue
to apply to the two FFT sites.
Historic and cultural resources
Policy 4.46. Historic and cultural resource protection. Protect and encourage the restoration of
historic buildings, places, and districts that contribute to the distinctive character and history of
Portland’s evolving urban environment.
Policy 4.47. State and federal historic resource support. Advocate for state and federal policies,
programs, and legislation that would enable stronger historic resource designations, protections, and
rehabilitation programs.
Policy 4.48. Continuity with established patterns. Encourage development that fills in vacant and
underutilized gaps within the established urban fabric, while preserving and complementing historic
resources.
Policy 4.49. Resolution of conflicts. Adopt and periodically update design guidelines for unique
historic districts. Refine base zoning in historic districts to consider the character of the historic
resources in the district.
Policy 4.50. Demolition. Protect historic resources from demolition. Provide opportunities for public
comment, and encourage pursuit of alternatives to demolition or other actions that mitigate for the
loss.
Policy 4.51. City-owned historic resources. Maintain City-owned historic resources with necessary
upkeep and repair.
Policy 4.52. Historic Resources Inventory. Maintain and periodically update Portland’s Historic
Resources Inventory to inform historic and cultural resource preservation strategies.
Policy 4.53. Preservation equity. Expand historic preservation inventories, regulations, and programs
to encourage historic preservation in areas and in communities that have not benefited from past
historic preservation efforts, especially in areas with high concentrations of under-served and/or
under-represented people.
Policy 4.54. Cultural diversity. Work with Portland’s diverse communities to identify and preserve
places of historic and cultural significance.
Policy 4.55. Cultural and social significance. Encourage awareness and appreciation of cultural
diversity and the social significance of historic places and their roles in enhancing community identity
and sense of place.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy 4.56. Community structures. Encourage the adaptive reuse of historic community structures,
such as former schools, meeting halls, and places of worship, for arts, cultural, and community uses
that continue their role as anchors for community and culture.
Policy 4.57. Economic viability. Provide options for financial and regulatory incentives to allow for the
productive, reasonable, and adaptive reuse of historic resources.
Policy 4.58. Archaeological resources. Protect and preserve archaeological resources, especially those
sites and objects associated with Native American cultures. Work in partnership with Sovereign tribes,
Native American communities, and the state to protect against disturbance to Native American
archaeological resources.
145. Finding:  The City Council interprets that policies 4.46 through 4.58 relate to implementation
approaches directly related to the preservation of historic and cultural resources, which is not
impacted by the FFTZ amendments. Historic and cultural resources are located throughout
Portland, but very few are in the industrial zones where the FFTZ amendments change the allowed
uses. There are no designated Historic Landmarks or Districts in or immediately adjacent to any of
the existing FFTs. Existing historic resource protections are not being amended (Chapter 33.445).
Therefore, the policies do not apply.
Public art
Policy 4.59. Public art and development. Create incentives for public art as part of public and private
development projects.
146. Finding:  The FFTZ amendments affect one type of allowed use in employment and industrial zones
and do not create incentives for public art. This policy does not apply.
Resource-efficient design and development
Policy 4.60. Rehabilitation and adaptive reuse. Encourage rehabilitation and adaptive reuse of
buildings, especially those of historic or cultural significance, to conserve natural resources, reduce
waste, and demonstrate stewardship of the built environment.
147. Finding:  The City Council interprets this policy to generally apply to the rehabilitation and adaptive
reuse of buildings, particularly those with historic or cultural significance.  The Council finds that the
FFTs are not buildings with historic or cultural significant.  Nonetheless, the FFTZ regulations
encourage the rehabilitation of existing FFTs, as a whole, by designating them as a limited use,
which allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in facilities that improve their ability
to withstand a major earthquake. Further, the use limitations provide flexibility to FFTs to
rehabilitate existing fossil fuel storage tank capacity to increase safety.
Policy 4.61. Compact housing. Promote the development of compact, space- and energy-efficient
housing types that minimize use of resources such as smaller detached homes or accessory dwellings
and attached homes.
148. Finding:  The FFTZ amendments affect one type of allowed use in employment and industrial zones
and do not change development standards that apply to housing. This policy does not apply.
Policy 4.62. Seismic and energy retrofits. Promote seismic and energy-efficiency retrofits of historic
buildings and other existing structures to reduce carbon emissions, save money, and improve public
safety.
149. Finding:  The City Council finds that “promote” means to “further the progress of, advance, or
raise.” Further, the City Council finds that seismic and energy-efficiency retrofits can be promoted
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

through incentives or regulatory measures. The purpose of the policy is to reduce carbon
emissions, save money and improve public safety. The City Council finds that the policy does not
require all three elements are satisfied with every action.  Rather, those are three outcomes that
may be achieved when the City Council promotes seismic and energy-efficiency retrofits.
Here, the City Council finds that the FFTZ regulations promote seismic retrofits of existing FFTs by
designating them as a limited use, which allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in
facilities that improve their ability to withstand a major earthquake. Further, the use limitations
provide flexibility to FFTs to replace and reconfigure existing storage tank capacity to increase
safety.
Policy 4.63. Life cycle efficiency. Encourage use of technologies, techniques, and materials in building
design, construction, and removal that result in the least environmental impact over the life cycle of
the structure.
Policy 4.64. Deconstruction. Encourage salvage and reuse of building elements when demolition is
necessary or appropriate.
Policy 4.65. Materials and practices. Encourage use of natural, resource-efficient, recycled, recycled
content, and non-toxic building materials and energy-efficient building practices.
Policy 4.66. Water use efficiency. Encourage site and building designs that use water efficiently and
manage stormwater as a resource.
Policy 4.67. Optimizing benefits. Provide mechanisms to evaluate and optimize the range of benefits
from solar and renewable resources, tree canopy, ecoroofs, and building design.
Policy 4.68. Energy efficiency. Encourage and promote energy efficiency significantly beyond the
Statewide Building Code and the use of solar and other renewable resources in individual buildings
and at a district scale.
Policy 4.69. Reduce carbon emissions. Encourage a development pattern that minimizes carbon
emissions from building and transportation energy use.
Policy 4.70. District energy systems. Encourage and remove barriers to the development and
expansion of low-carbon heating and cooling systems that serve multiple buildings or a broader
district.
Policy 4.71. Ecodistricts. Encourage ecodistricts, where multiple partners work together to achieve
sustainability and resource efficiency goals at a district scale.
Policy 4.72. Energy-producing development. Encourage and promote development that uses
renewable resources, such as solar, wind, and water to generate power on-site and to contribute to
the energy grid.
150. Finding:  Policies 4.63 through 4.72 provide direction regarding resource-efficient design and
development. The FFTZ amendments affect one type of allowed use in employment and industrial
zones and do not change development standards that apply to development in those zones. These
policies do not apply.
Designing with nature
Policy 4.73. Design with nature. Encourage design and site development practices that enhance, and
avoid the degradation of, watershed health and ecosystem services and that incorporate trees and
vegetation.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy 4.74. Flexible development options. Encouraging flexibility in the division of land, the siting and
design of buildings, and other improvements to reduce the impact of development on
environmentally-sensitive areas and to retain healthy native and beneficial vegetation and trees.
Policy 4.75. Low-impact development and best practices. Encourage use of low-impact development,
habitat-friendly development, bird-friendly design, and green infrastructure.
Policy 4.76. Impervious surfaces. Limit use of and strive to reduce impervious surfaces and associated
impacts on hydrologic function, air and water quality, habitat connectivity, tree canopy, and urban
heat island effects.
Policy 4.77. Hazards to wildlife. Encourage building, lighting, site, and infrastructure design and
practices that provide safe fish and wildlife passage, and reduce or mitigate hazards to birds, bats, and
other wildlife.
Policy 4.78. Access to nature. Promote equitable, safe, and well-designed physical and visual access to
nature for all Portlanders, while also maintaining the functions and values of significant natural
resources, fish, and wildlife. Provide access to major natural features, including:
• Water bodies such as the Willamette and Columbia rivers, Smith and Bybee Lakes, creeks,
streams, and sloughs.
• Major topographic features such as the West Hills, Mt. Tabor, and the East Buttes.
• Natural areas such as Forest Park and Oaks Bottom.
151. Finding:  Policies 4.73 through 4.78 provide direction regarding the interface between development
and natural features and functions. The FFTZ amendments affect one type of allowed use in
employment and industrial zones and do not change development standards that apply to
development in those zones. These policies do not apply.
Hazard-resilient design
Policy 4.79. Natural hazards and climate change risks and impacts. Limit development in or near
areas prone to natural hazards, using the most current hazard and climate change-related information
and maps.
152. Finding:  The 2035 Comprehensive Plan defines “limit” as to minimize or reduce something or the
effects of something relative to the current situation or to a potential future situation. Most of
Portland’s industrial zoning are in areas with high levels of liquefaction susceptibility, as
documented by the 2018 DOGAMI Earthquake Regional Impact Analysis. Fossil fuel infrastructure
poses considerable risks in the event of a major earthquake. The FFTZ amendments will limit the
size of new fossil fuel terminals and prohibit the expansion of storage capacity at existing fossil fuel
terminals, with limited exceptions for aviation and renewable fuels, which will minimize the risk
from a future major earthquake compared to the current regulations that allow for unlimited
growth in FFTs.
Policy 4.80. Geological hazards. Evaluate slope and soil characteristics, including liquefaction
potential, landslide hazards, and other geologic hazards.
153.  Most of Portland’s employment and industrial zones are in areas with high to very high levels of
liquefaction susceptibility, as documented by the 2018 DOGAMI Earthquake Regional Impact
Analysis. Fossil fuel infrastructure poses considerable risks in the event of a major earthquake.
According to the 2012 DOGAMI Earthquake Risk Study for Oregon's Critical Energy Infrastructure
Hub report, a magnitude 8 or 9 Cascadia Subduction Zone earthquake would impact the CEI Hub
with: ground shaking; liquefaction (soil behavior phenomenon in which a saturated sand softens
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

and loses strength during strong earthquake ground shaking); lateral spreading (where surficial soil
permanently moves laterally due to earthquake shaking); landslides; co-seismic settlement (where
the ground surface is permanently lowered due to seismic shaking); and bearing capacity failures
(when the foundation soil cannot support the structure it is intended to support).
According to the 2012 DOGAMI report, liquefaction and lateral spreading hazards are of primary
concern to the fossil fuel terminals. As described in the 2012 Oregon State Energy Assurance Plan,
this Critical Energy Infrastructure Hub (CEI Hub) sits on top of very poor soils that are highly
susceptible to earthquake-induced permanent ground deformation. The CEI Hub is adjacent to the
Willamette River and has extensive deposits of highly liquefiable soils. These soils (made of sands,
silts, gravels and clays) have been naturally deposited by river activity as well as been created from
man-made activities, such as hydraulically placed material from river dredging or debris placed as
landfill.
The FFTs have significant seismic risks because most of the tanks have been constructed without
any or only limited seismic design criteria on soils with moderate to high levels of liquefaction
susceptibility, as documented by the Portland Bureau of Emergency Management's 2016 Critical
Energy Infrastructure Hub Study and the 2012 DOGAMI Earthquake Risk Study for Oregon's Critical
Energy Infrastructure Hub report. Continuing to allow the increase in FFTs in a high risk area
increases the risk to the surrounding industrial district and the Willamette River. The FFTZ
amendments limit future risk by limiting the size of new fossil fuel terminals and prohibiting the
expansion of storage capacity at existing fossil fuel terminals, with limited exceptions for aviation
and renewable fuels. Further, by designating existing FFTs as a limited use, as opposed to a
prohibited nonconforming use, allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in facilities
that reduce the risks and improve their ability to withstand a major earthquake, which ultimately
can make Portland more resilient.
Policy 4.81. Disaster-resilient development. Encourage development and site-management
approaches that reduce the risks and impacts of natural disasters or other major disturbances and
that improve the ability of people, wildlife, natural systems, and property to withstand and recover
from such events.
154. Finding:  The verb “encourage”, which is defined in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, means to
promote or foster using some combination of voluntary approaches, regulations, or incentives.
Council finds that development reduces the risks and impacts of natural disasters when the risk is
lessened relative to the current situation.  Additionally, the ability to withstand and recover from
such events is improved when the current situation is made better.
Most of Portland’s employment and industrial zones are in areas with high to very high levels of
liquefaction susceptibility, as documented by the 2018 DOGAMI Earthquake Regional Impact
Analysis. Continuing to allow the unlimited increase in storage capacity at FFTs in a high risk area
increases the risk to the surrounding industrial district and the Willamette River. The FFTZ
amendments are a regulatory approach that improves Portland’s ability to withstand and recover
from an earthquake by limiting the size of new fossil fuel terminals and prohibiting the expansion of
storage capacity at existing fossil fuel terminals, with limited exceptions for aviation and renewable
fuels, which is an improvement over the current regulations that allow for unlimited growth in FFTs.
The FFTZ regulations focus on limiting risk by limiting fossil fuel storage capacity, but designate
existing FFTs as a limited use, which allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in
facilities that reduce the risks and improve their ability to withstand a major earthquake. Further,
the use limitations provide flexibility to FFTs to replace and reconfigure existing storage tank
capacity to increase safety.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy 4.82. Portland Harbor facilities. Reduce natural hazard risks to critical public and private energy
and transportation facilities in the Portland Harbor.
155. Finding: Critical Energy Infrastructure Hub is located in the Portland Harbor. Most of the Portland
Harbor is an area rated with high to very high levels of liquefaction susceptibility, as documented by
the 2018 DOGAMI Earthquake Regional Impact Analysis. Fossil fuel infrastructure poses
considerable risks in the event of a major earthquake. The FFTZ amendments support this policy by
restricting new fossil fuel storage capacity in order to stop increasing the risk, effectively lessening
the risk relative to the current situation. The FFTs have significant seismic risks because most of the
tanks have been constructed without any or only limited seismic design criteria on soils with
moderate to high levels of liquefaction susceptibility, as documented by the Portland Bureau of
Emergency Management's 2016 Critical Energy Infrastructure Hub Study and the 2012 DOGAMI
Earthquake Risk Study for Oregon's Critical Energy Infrastructure Hub report. Continuing to allow
the increase fossil fuel storage tank capacity in a high risk area increases the risk to the surrounding
industrial district, the Willamette River and Portland as a whole. The FFTZ amendments limit future
risk by limiting the size of new fossil fuel terminals and prohibiting the expansion of fossil fuel
storage capacity at existing FFTs, with limited exceptions. Further, by designating existing FFTs as a
limited use, as opposed to a prohibited nonconforming use, allows the terminals to continue to
operate and invest in facilities that reduce the risks and improve their ability to withstand a major
earthquake, which ultimately can reduce the natural hazards risk.
Policy 4.83. Urban heat islands. Encourage development, building, landscaping, and infrastructure
design that reduce urban heat island effects.
156. Finding:  The FFTZ amendments affect one type of allowed use in employment and industrial zones
and do not change development standards that apply to development in those zones. This policy
does not apply.
Policy 4.84. Planning and disaster recovery. Facilitate effective disaster recovery by providing
recommended updates to land use designations and development codes, in preparation for natural
disasters.
157. Finding: The City Council finds that it can “facilitate” disaster recovery by evaluating and adopting
changes to land use designations and development codes in a manner that better prepares the city
for a natural disaster.  The FFTZ amendments are an update to the allowed uses in employment
and industrial zones. The FFTZ amendments are a regulatory approach that improves Portland’s
ability to withstand and recover from an earthquake by limiting the size of new fossil fuel terminals
and prohibiting the expansion of storage capacity at existing fossil fuel terminals, with limited
exceptions for aviation and renewable fuels, which is an improvement over the current regulations
that allow for unlimited growth in FFTs. The FFTZ regulations focus on limiting risk by limiting fossil
fuel storage capacity, but designate existing FFTs as a limited use, which allows the terminals to
continue to operate and invest in facilities that reduce the risks and improve their ability to
withstand a major earthquake.
Healthy food
Policy 4.85. Grocery stores and markets in centers. Facilitate the retention and development of
grocery stores, neighborhood-based markets, and farmer’s markets offering fresh produce in centers.
Policy 4.86. Neighborhood food access. Encourage small, neighborhood-based retail food
opportunities, such as corner markets, food co-ops, food buying clubs, and community-supported
agriculture pickup/drop-off sites, to fill in service gaps in food access across the city.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy 4.87. Growing food. Increase opportunities to grow food for personal consumption, donation,
sales, and educational purposes.
Policy 4.88. Access to community gardens. Ensure that community gardens are allowed in areas close
to or accessible via transit to people living in areas zoned for mixed-use or multi-dwelling
development, where residents have few opportunities to grow food in yards.
158. Finding:  Policies 4.85 through 4.88 provide direction regarding the role of development in
contributing to access to healthy foods. The City Council interprets this policy to relate to
development outside of industrial areas. The FFTZ amendments affect one type of allowed use in
employment and industrial zones and do not change development standards that apply to
development in those zones. These policies do not apply.
Chapter 5: Housing
Goal 5.A: Housing diversity. Portlanders have access to high-quality affordable housing that
accommodates their needs, preferences, and financial capabilities in terms of different types, tenures,
density, sizes, costs, and locations.
Goal 5.B: Equitable access to housing. Portland ensures equitable access to housing, making a special
effort to remove disparities in housing access for people with disabilities, people of color, low-income
households, diverse household types, and older adults.
Goal 5.C: Healthy connected city. Portlanders live in safe, healthy housing that provides convenient
access to jobs and to goods and services that meet daily needs. This housing is connected to the rest
of the city and region by safe, convenient, and affordable multimodal transportation.
Goal 5.D: Affordable housing. Portland has an adequate supply of affordable housing units to meet
the needs of residents vulnerable to increasing housing costs.
Goal 5.E: High-performance housing. Portland residents have access to resource-efficient and high-
performance housing for people of all abilities and income levels.
159. Finding:  The FFTZ amendments affect one type of allowed use in employment and industrial zones
and do not affect housing development. Except for Policies 5.11 to 5.16, which City Council
interprets as requiring evaluation and analysis as to who will benefit and who will be burdened by a
planning decision, the City Council finds that these goals and policies do not apply.
Diverse and expanding housing supply
Policy 5.1. Housing supply. Maintain sufficient residential development capacity to accommodate
Portland’s projected share of regional household growth.
Policy 5.2. Housing growth. Strive to capture at least 25 percent of the seven-county region’s
residential growth (Multnomah, Washington, Clackamas, Yamhill, Columbia, Clark, and Skamania
counties).
Policy 5.3. Housing potential. Evaluate plans and investments for their impact on housing capacity,
particularly the impact on the supply of housing units that can serve low- and moderate-income
households, and identify opportunities to meet future demand.
Policy 5.4. Housing types. Encourage new and innovative housing types that meet the evolving needs
of Portland households, and expand housing choices in all neighborhoods. These housing types
include but are not limited to single-dwelling units; multi-dwelling units; accessory dwelling units;
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

small units; pre-fabricated homes such as manufactured, modular, and mobile homes; co-housing; and
clustered housing/clustered services.
Policy 5.5. Housing in centers. Apply zoning in and around centers that allows for and supports a
diversity of housing that can accommodate a broad range of households, including multi-dwelling and
family-friendly housing options.
Policy 5.6. Middle housing. Enable and encourage development of middle housing. This includes
multi-unit or clustered residential buildings that provide relatively smaller, less expensive units; more
units; and a scale transition between the core of the mixed use center and surrounding single family
areas. Where appropriate, apply zoning that would allow this within a quarter mile of designated
centers, corridors with frequent service transit, high capacity transit stations, and within the Inner
Ring around the Central City.
Policy 5.7. Adaptable housing. Encourage adaption of existing housing and the development of new
housing that can be adapted in the future to accommodate the changing variety of household types.
Policy 5.8. Physically-accessible housing. Allow and support a robust and diverse supply of affordable,
accessible housing to meet the needs of older adults and people with disabilities, especially in centers,
station areas, and other places that are proximate to services and transit.
Policy 5.9. Accessible design for all. Encourage new construction and retrofitting to create physically-
accessible housing, extending from the individual unit to the community, using Universal Design
Principles.
Policy 5.10. Coordinate with fair housing programs. Foster inclusive communities, overcome
disparities in access to community assets, and enhance housing choice for people in protected classes
throughout the city by coordinating plans and investments to affirmatively further fair housing.
Housing access
Policy 5.11. Remove barriers. Remove potential regulatory barriers to housing choice for people in
protected classes to ensure freedom of choice in housing type, tenure, and location.
Policy 5.12. Impact analysis. Evaluate plans and investments, significant new infrastructure, and
significant new development to identify potential disparate impacts on housing choice, access, and
affordability for protected classes and low-income households. Identify and implement strategies to
mitigate the anticipated impacts.
Policy 5.13. Housing stability. Coordinate plans and investments with programs that prevent
avoidable, involuntary evictions and foreclosures.
Policy 5.14. Preserve communities. Encourage plans and investments to protect and/or restore the
socioeconomic diversity and cultural stability of established communities.
Policy 5.15. Gentrification/displacement risk. Evaluate plans and investments, significant new
infrastructure, and significant new development for the potential to increase housing costs for, or
cause displacement of communities of color, low- and moderate-income households, and renters.
Identify and implement strategies to mitigate the anticipated impacts.
Policy 5.16. Involuntary displacement. When plans and investments are expected to create
neighborhood change, limit the involuntary displacement of those who are under-served and under-
represented. Use public investments and programs, and coordinate with nonprofit housing
organizations (such as land trusts and housing providers) to create permanently-affordable housing
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

and to mitigate the impacts of market pressures that cause involuntary displacement.
160. Finding:  The City Council interprets Policies 5.11 to 5.16 as requiring evaluation and analysis as to
who will benefit and who will be burdened by a planning decision, including amendments to the
Zoning Code. The City Council finds that one factor in housing stability and displacement is access
to job opportunities across a wide range of wage scales, especially middle wage jobs such as those
found in Portland’s industrial districts. The FFTZ amendments apply to only one type of business
that makes up a minority part of the businesses found in Portland’s industrial districts. The FFTZ
amendments do not include map changes, nor do they allow for new incompatible land uses,
therefore, these changes do not change the land capacity in Portland’s industrial districts and
continue to support continued growth in those districts.
The regulations are narrowly crafted to support the retention of existing fossil fuel terminals by
designating them as a limited use that allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in
upgrades and supports opportunities for growth through exceptions, such as aviation or renewable
fuels.
Policy 5.17. Land banking. Support and coordinate with community organizations to hold land in
reserve for affordable housing, as an anti-displacement tool, and for other community development
purposes.
Policy 5.18. Rebuild communities. Coordinate plans and investments with programs that enable
communities impacted by involuntary displacement to maintain social and cultural connections, and
re-establish a stable presence and participation in the impacted neighborhoods.
Policy 5.19. Aging in place. Encourage a range of housing options and supportive environments to
enable older adults to remain in their communities as their needs change.
Housing location
Policy 5.20. Coordinate housing needs in high-poverty areas. Meet the housing needs of under-
served and under-represented populations living in high-poverty areas by coordinating plans and
investments with housing programs.
Policy 5.21. Access to opportunities. Improve equitable access to active transportation, jobs, open
spaces, high-quality schools, and supportive services and amenities in areas with high concentrations
of under-served and under-represented populations and an existing supply of affordable housing.
Policy 5.22. New development in opportunity areas. Locate new affordable housing in areas that
have high/medium levels of opportunity in terms of access to active transportation, jobs, open spaces,
high-quality schools, and supportive services and amenities.
Policy 5.23. Higher-density housing. Locate higher-density housing, including units that are affordable
and accessible, in and around centers to take advantage of the access to active transportation, jobs,
open spaces, schools, and various services and amenities.
Policy 5.24. Impact of housing on schools. Evaluate plans and investments for the effect of housing
development on school enrollment, financial stability, and student mobility. Coordinate with school
districts to ensure plans are aligned with school facility plans.
Housing affordability
Policy 5.25. Housing preservation. Preserve and produce affordable housing to meet needs that are
not met by the private market by coordinating plans and investments with housing providers and
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

organizations.
Policy 5.26. Regulated affordable housing target. Strive to produce at least 10,000 new regulated
affordable housing units citywide by 2035 that will be affordable to households in the 0-80 percent
MFI bracket.
Policy 5.27. Funding plan. Encourage development or financial or regulatory mechanisms to achieve
the regulated affordable housing target set forth for 2035.
Policy 5.28. Inventory of regulated affordable housing. Coordinate periodic inventories of the supply
of regulated affordable housing in the four-county (Clackamas, Clark, Multnomah and Washington)
region with Metro.
Policy 5.29. Permanently-affordable housing. Increase the supply of permanently-affordable housing,
including both rental and homeownership opportunities.
Policy 5.30. Housing cost burden. Evaluate plans and investments for their impact on household cost,
and consider ways to reduce the combined cost of housing, utilities, and/or transportation. Encourage
energy-efficiency investments to reduce overall housing costs.
Policy 5.31. Household prosperity. Facilitate expanding the variety of types and sizes of affordable
housing units, and do so in locations that provide low-income households with greater access to
convenient transit and transportation, education and training opportunities, the Central City,
industrial districts, and other employment areas.
Policy 5.32. Affordable housing in centers. Encourage income diversity in and around centers by
allowing a mix of housing types and tenures.
Policy 5.33. Central City affordable housing. Encourage the preservation and production of affordable
housing in the Central City to take advantage of the area’s unique concentration of active
transportation access, jobs, open spaces, and supportive services and amenities.
Policy 5.34. Affordable housing resources. Pursue a variety of funding sources and mechanisms
including new financial and regulatory tools to preserve and develop housing units and various
assistance programs for households whose needs are not met by the private market.
Policy 5.35. Inclusionary housing. Use inclusionary zoning and other regulatory tools to effectively link
the production of affordable housing to the production of market-rate housing.
Policy 5.36. Impact of regulations on affordability. Evaluate how existing and new regulations affect
private development of affordable housing, and minimize negative impacts where possible. Avoid
regulations that facilitate economically-exclusive neighborhoods.
Policy 5.37. Mobile home parks. Encourage preservation of mobile home parks as a low/moderate-
income housing option. Evaluate plans and investments for potential redevelopment pressures on
existing mobile home parks and impacts on park residents and protect this low/moderate-income
housing option. Facilitate replacement and alteration of manufactured homes within an existing
mobile home park.
Policy 5.38. Workforce housing. Encourage private development of a robust supply of housing that is
affordable to moderate-income households located near convenient multimodal transportation that
provides access to education and training opportunities, the Central City, industrial districts, and other
employment areas.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy 5.39. Compact single‐family options. Encourage development and preservation of small
resource‐efficient and affordable single-family homes in all areas of the city.
Policy 5.40 Employer-assisted housing. Encourage employer-assisted affordable housing in
conjunction with major employment development.
Policy 5.41 Affordable homeownership. Align plans and investments to support improving
homeownership rates and locational choice for people of color and other groups who have been
historically under-served and under-represented.
Policy 5.42 Homeownership retention. Support opportunities for homeownership retention for
people of color and other groups who have been historically under-served and under-represented.
Policy 5.43 Variety in homeownership opportunities. Encourage a variety of ownership
opportunities and choices by allowing and supporting including but not limited to condominiums,
cooperatives, mutual housing associations, limited equity cooperatives, land trusts, and sweat equity.
Policy 5.44 Regional cooperation. Facilitate opportunities for greater regional cooperation in
addressing housing needs in the Portland metropolitan area, especially for the homeless, low- and
moderate-income households, and historically under-served and under-represented communities.
Policy 5.45 Regional balance. Encourage development of a “regional balance” strategy to secure
greater regional participation to address the housing needs of homeless people and communities of
color, low- and moderate-income households, and historically under-served and under-represented
communities throughout the region.
Homelessness
Policy 5.46. Housing continuum. Prevent homelessness and reduce the time spent being homeless by
ensuring that a continuum of safe and affordable housing opportunities and related supportive
services are allowed, including but not limited to Permanent Supportive Housing, transitional housing,
self-built micro housing communities, emergency shelters, temporary shelters such as warming
centers, and transitional campgrounds.
Health, safety, and well-being
Policy 5.47  Healthy housing. Encourage development and maintenance of all housing, especially
multi-dwelling housing, that protects the health and safety of residents and encourages healthy
lifestyles and active living.
Policy 5.48 Housing safety. Require safe and healthy housing free of hazardous materials such as
lead, asbestos, and radon.
Policy 5.49. Housing quality. Encourage housing that provides high indoor air quality, access to
sunlight and outdoor spaces, and is protected from excessive noise, pests, and hazardous
environmental conditions.
Policy 5.50. High-performance housing. Encourage energy efficiency, green building practices,
materials, and design to produce healthy, efficient, durable, and adaptable homes that are affordable
or reasonably priced.
Policy 5.51. Healthy and active living. Encourage housing that provides features supportive of healthy
eating and active living such as useable open areas, recreation areas, community gardens, crime-
preventive design, and community kitchens in multifamily housing.

Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy 5.52. Walkable surroundings. Encourage active transportation in residential areas through the
development of pathways, sidewalks, and high-quality onsite amenities such as secure bicycle parking.
Policy 5.53. Responding to social isolation. Encourage site designs and relationship to adjacent
developments that reduce social isolation for groups that often experience it, such as older adults,
people with disabilities, communities of color, and immigrant communities.
Policy 5.54 Renter protections. Enhance renter health, safety, and stability through education,
expansion of enhanced inspections, and support of regulations and incentives that protect tenants
and prevent involuntary displacement.
Chapter 6: Economic Development
Goal 6.A: Prosperity. Portland has vigorous economic growth and a healthy, diverse economy that
supports prosperity and equitable access to employment opportunities for an increasingly diverse
population. A strong economy that is keeping up with population growth and attracting resources and
talent can:
• Create opportunity for people to achieve their full potential.
• Improve public health.
• Support a healthy environment.
• Support the fiscal well-being of the city.
161. Finding:  The City Council interprets this goal to apply to the city as whole and not to individual
businesses or sectors of business. The City Council interprets this goal to mean that Portland has a
strong economy with employment opportunities for a diverse population. The City Council finds
that an important factor in a diverse economy is to provide access to job opportunities across a
wide range of wage scales, especially middle wage jobs such as those found in Portland’s industrial
districts.
The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do they allow for new incompatible land
uses, therefore, these changes maintain Portland’s employment land supply to create opportunities
for a growing economy.
These regulations apply to only one type of business that makes up a minority part of the
businesses found in Portland’s industrial districts. The remaining industrial uses continue to operate
under the current development review system. The FFTZ amendments establish clear definitions
for fossil fuels and the Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminal use category. These changes are fair to existing
FFTs by designating them as a limited use that allows the terminals to continue to operate and. The
limited use designation also allows the FFTs to invest in upgrades and supports opportunities for
growth through exceptions, such as aviation or renewable fuels. Further, the use limitations
provide flexibility to FFTs to replace and reconfigure existing storage tank capacity, such as
consolidating smaller tanks into larger tanks.
Goal 6.B: Development. Portland supports an attractive environment for industrial, commercial, and
institutional job growth and development by: 1) maintaining an adequate land supply; 2) a local
development review system that is nimble, predictable, and fair; and 3) high-quality public facilities
and services.
162. Finding:  The verb “support”, which is defined in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, means to aid the
cause of. The City Council interprets this goal to apply to the city as whole and not to individual
businesses or sectors of business. The City Council interprets this goal to mean that an attractive
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

environment for economic development has three elements: 1) adequate land supply; 2) a
predictable development review system; and 3) high-quality public services. The FFTZ amendments
do not include map changes, nor do they allow for new incompatible land uses, therefore, these
changes maintain Portland’s employment land supply.
These regulations apply to only one type of business that makes up a minority part of the
businesses found in Portland’s industrial districts. The remaining industrial uses continue to operate
under the current development review system. The FFTZ amendments establish clear definitions
for fossil fuels and the Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminal use category. These changes are fair to existing
FFTs by designating them as a limited use that allows the terminals to continue to operate and. The
limited use designation also allows the FFTs to invest in upgrades and supports opportunities for
growth through exceptions, such as aviation or renewable fuels. Further, the use limitations
provide flexibility to FFTs to replace and reconfigure existing storage tank capacity, such as
consolidating smaller tanks into larger tanks.
The FFTZ amendments do not amend the Citywide System Plan or the Transportation System Plan,
therefore the City continues to plan for public infrastructure investments in the industrial districts
where the FFTs are located.
Goal 6.C: Business district vitality. Portland implements land use policy and investments to:
• Ensure that commercial, institutional, and industrial districts support business retention and
expansion.
163. Finding:  The verb “ensure”, which is defined in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, means to make sure
that something will happen or be available. The City Council interprets this goal to apply to the city
as whole and not to individual businesses or sectors of business. Further, the City Council interprets
this goal to mean that the City will provide an adequate land base that is supported by public
infrastructure investments that are needed to support businesses. The FFTZ amendments are
consistent with this goal because they do not include map changes, nor do they allow for new
incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes do not conflict with the intent to support business
retention and expansion in Portland’s industrial districts. These regulations apply to only one type
of business that makes up a minority part of the businesses found in Portland’s industrial districts.
The other industrial uses continue to operate under current regulations. These changes support the
retention of existing fossil fuel terminals by designating them as a limited use that allows the
terminals to continue to operate and invest in upgrades and supports opportunities for expansion
through exceptions, such as aviation or renewable fuels. Further, the use limitations provide
flexibility to FFTs to replace and reconfigure existing storage tank capacity. The FFTZ amendments
do not amend the Citywide System Plan or the Transportation System Plan, therefore the City
continues to plan for public infrastructure investments in the industrial districts where the FFTs are
located.
• Encourage the growth of districts that support productive and creative synergies among local
businesses.
164. Finding:  The verb “encourage”, which is defined in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, means to
promote or foster using some combination of voluntary approaches, regulations, or incentives. The
City Council interprets this goal to apply to the growth of districts in the city as whole and not to
individual businesses or sectors of business. The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes,
nor do they allow for new incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes do not conflict with the
intent to encourage growth in Portland’s industrial districts. These regulations apply to only one
type of business that makes up a minority part of the businesses found in Portland’s industrial
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

districts. The remaining industrial uses continue to operate under current regulations. These
changes support the retention of existing fossil fuel terminals by designating them as a limited use,
as opposed to a non-conforming use, that allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in
upgrades and supports opportunities for growth through exceptions, such as aviation or renewable
fuels, to the storage capacity restrictions.
• Provide convenient access to goods, services, and markets.
165. Finding:  The verb “provide”, which is defined in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, means to supply,
offer, or make available. The adjective “convenient”, which is not defined in the 2035
Comprehensive Plan, means to be situated to allow easy access. The City Council interprets this
goal to apply to the city as whole and not to individual businesses or sectors of business. The City
Council finds that the goal provides that the City will implement land use policies that will result in
easy access to goods, services, and markets.  The FFTZ amendments do not amend the Citywide
System Plan or the Transportation System Plan, therefore the City continues to plan for public
infrastructure investments to facilitate access to goods, services and markets. These regulations
apply to only one type of business that makes up a minority part of the businesses found in
Portland’s industrial districts. The remaining industrial uses continue to operate under current
regulations. These changes support the retention of existing fossil fuel terminals by designating
them as a limited use, as opposed to a non-conforming use, that allows the terminals to continue to
operate and invest in upgrades and supports opportunities for growth through exceptions, such as
aviation or renewable fuels. The limits and exceptions will enable the FFTs to maintain their ability
to provide goods and services to their markets. The ordinance does not restrict the markets that
can be served by the existing FFTs.
These regulations allow the existing FFTs to continue to operate as a limited use. The regulations
also provide exceptions to the storage capacity limits for aviation and renewable fuels.
BPS presented evidence that national petroleum consumption forecast out to 2050 is essentially
flat, which is a continuation of historic trends in Oregon and Washington, during a period of a
thriving economy. In addition, ODOT is forecasting a decline in motor fuel consumption over the
medium term to 2029. The more recent cargo forecasts project a modest growth in volumes, but
those volumes do not exceed the historic peak volumes that were handled by the Portland
terminals. No other evidence of future demand for fossil fuels was submitted in testimony.
Therefore, the City Council finds that the fossil fuel storage capacity at the existing FFTs is sufficient
to meet future needs.
Further, the City finds that reducing risk from a major earthquake outweighs the marginal impact to
accommodating future demand for fossil fuels. In addition, continuing to locate all of the fossil fuel
storage capacity in a high risk area in Portland is counter to 2013 Oregon Resilience Plan that
recommends the diversification of locations for the storage of liquid fuels and identification of new
liquid fuel energy corridors.
• Take advantage of our location and quality of life advantages as a gateway to world-class
natural landscapes in Northwest Oregon, Southwest Washington, and the Columbia River
Basin, and a robust interconnected system of natural landscapes within the region’s Urban
Growth Boundary.
166. Finding:  The City Council interprets this goal to apply to the city as whole and not to individual
businesses or sectors of business. Further, the City Council interprets the intent of this goal is to
leverage location, access and quality of life as an advantage to attracting and retaining businesses
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

and employees to Portland. The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do they allow
for new incompatible land uses, that could undermine business retention and expansion in
Portland’s industrial districts. Therefore, these changes do not conflict with the intent of this goal to
encourage business district vitality in Portland.
Diverse, expanding city economy
Policy 6.1. Diverse and growing community. Expand economic opportunity and improve economic
equity for Portland’s diverse, growing population through sustained business growth.
167. Finding:  The City Council interprets this policy to apply to the city as whole and not to individual
businesses or sectors of business. The City Council finds that this policy requires business growth
that makes economic opportunity available to a more diverse and growth community.  The City
Council finds that an important factor in improving economic equity is to provide access to job
opportunities across a wide range of wage scales, especially middle wage jobs such as those found
in Portland’s industrial districts.
The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do they allow for new incompatible land
uses, therefore, these changes maintain Portland’s employment land supply to create opportunities
for a growing economy.
These regulations apply to only one type of business that makes up a minority part of the
businesses found in Portland’s industrial districts. The remaining industrial uses continue to operate
under the current development review system. The FFTZ amendments establish clear definitions
for fossil fuels and the Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminal use category. These changes are fair to existing
FFTs by designating them as a limited use that allows the terminals to continue to operate and. The
limited use designation also allows the FFTs to invest in upgrades and supports opportunities for
growth through exceptions, such as aviation or renewable fuels. Further, the use limitations
provide flexibility to FFTs to replace and reconfigure existing storage tank capacity, such as
consolidating smaller tanks into larger tanks.
Policy 6.2. Diverse and expanding economy. Align plans and investments to maintain the diversity of
Portland’s economy and status as Oregon’s largest job center with growth across all sectors
(commercial, industrial, creative, and institutional) and across all parts of the city.
Policy 6.3. Employment growth. Strive to capture at least 25 percent of the seven-county region’s
employment growth (Multnomah, Washington, Clackamas, Yamhill, Columbia, Clark, and Skamania
counties).
Policy 6.4. Fiscally-stable city. Promote a high citywide jobs-to-households ratio that supports tax
revenue growth at pace with residential demand for municipal services.
168. Finding:  The City Council interprets Policies 6.2 through 6.3 to apply to the city as whole and not to
individual businesses or sectors of business. The City Council interprets these policies to support a
growing economy as described in the EOA. The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor
do they allow for new incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes maintain Portland’s
employment land supply to create opportunities for a growing economy consistent with the EOA.
Policy 6.5. Economic resilience. Improve Portland’s economic resilience to impacts from climate
change and natural disasters through a strong local economy and equitable opportunities for
prosperity.
169. Finding:  The verb “improve”, which is defined in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, means to make the
current situation better; increase; enhance. “Resilience” means the “reducing the vulnerability of
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

our neighborhoods, businesses, and built and natural infrastructure to withstand challenges –
environmental, economic and social – that may result from major hazardous events.”   The City
Council finds that “economic resilience” is improved when the local economy is strong and
everyone has access to opportunities for prosperity.
The Council finds that the first step in making the current situation better is to ensure that the
situation does not get worse. Continuing to allow the increase in FFTs in a high-risk area increases
the risk to the surrounding industrial district and the Willamette River. The FFTZ amendments are a
regulatory approach that will limit the size of new fossil fuel terminals and prohibit the expansion of
storage capacity at existing fossil fuel terminals, with limited exceptions for aviation and renewable
fuels, which will be an improvement compared to the current regulations that allow for unlimited
growth in FFTs. Continuing to allow the unlimited increase in storage capacity at FFTs in a high-risk
area increases the risk to the surrounding industrial district and the Willamette River in the event of
a major earthquake.  The FFTZ regulations improve resilience by designating existing FFTs as a
limited use, which allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in facilities that reduce
the risks and improve their ability to withstand a major earthquake. Allowing the FFTs to continue
to operate and invest in upgrades will help support a strong local economy by providing for a
continuing supply of fossil fuels. Further, the use limitations (33.140.100.B.17.a) provide flexibility
to FFTs to replace and reconfigure existing storage tank capacity to increase safety.
Policy 6.6.  Low-carbon and renewable energy economy. Align plans and investments with efforts to
improve energy efficiency and reduce lifecycle carbon emissions from business operations. Promote
employment opportunities associated with the production of renewable energy, energy efficiency
projects, waste reduction, production of more durable goods, and recycling.
170. Finding:  The City Council interprets this policy to support changes to business operations to
become more energy efficient and reduce carbon emissions. Further, this policy encourages
renewable energy, including renewable fuels as an alternative to fossil fuels. The FFTZ amendments
are consistent with this policy by providing an exception that allows for new storage capacity for
renewable, non-fossil fuels.
Policy 6.7.  Competitive advantages. Maintain and strengthen the city’s comparative economic
advantages including access to a high-quality workforce, business diversity, competitive business
climate, and multimodal transportation infrastructure.
171. Finding:  The verb “maintain”, which is defined in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, means to keep
what you have; conserve; preserve; continue. The verb “strengthen”, which is not defined in the
2035 Comprehensive Plan, means to make stronger, improve. The City Council interprets this policy
to apply to the city as whole and not to individual businesses or sectors of business. These
regulations apply to only one type of business that makes up a minority part of the businesses
found in Portland, therefore will not have a significant impact on the workforce.  The FFTZ
amendments do not include map changes, nor do they allow for new incompatible land uses, that
could undermine the business retention and expansion in Portland’s industrial districts, which in
turn supports Portland’s business diversity across the city as a whole.
The regulations maintain a competitive business climate by being narrowly crafted to support the
retention of existing fossil fuel terminals by designating them as a limited use that allows the
terminals to continue to operate and invest in upgrades and supports opportunities for growth
through exceptions, such as aviation or renewable fuels, to the storage capacity restrictions. The
FFTZ amendments do not amend the Citywide System Plan or the Transportation System Plan,
therefore the City continues to plan for public infrastructure investments to maintain and
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

strengthen the multimodal transportation infrastructure in the northwest industrial area where the
FFTs are located.
Policy 6.8.  Business environment. Use plans and investments to help create a positive business
environment in the city and provide strategic assistance to retain, expand, and attract businesses.
172. Finding:  The City Council interprets this policy to apply to districts as whole and not to individual
businesses or sectors of business. The City Council also determines that creating a positive business
environment does not mean allowing for the unlimited expansion of all business types. These
regulations are narrowly crafted to apply to only one type of business that makes up a minority part
of the businesses found in Portland.
As outlined in Goal 6.B, the City Council defines a “positive business environment” as providing an
adequate land capacity that is supported by high-quality infrastructure, with predictable and fair
development review regulations. The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do they
allow for new incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes do not change the land capacity in
Portland’s industrial districts. The FFTZ amendments do not amend the Citywide System Plan or the
Transportation System Plan, therefore the City continues to plan for public infrastructure
investments to maintain and strengthen the multimodal transportation infrastructure in Portland’s
industrial districts.
The regulations only limit one type of business (FFTs), due to the moderate to high levels of
liquefaction susceptibility, as documented by the Portland Bureau of Emergency Management's
2016 Critical Energy Infrastructure Hub Study and the 2012 DOGAMI Earthquake Risk Study for
Oregon's Critical Energy Infrastructure Hub report. However, the regulations maintain a
competitive business climate by being narrowly crafted to support the retention of existing fossil
fuel terminals by designating them as a limited use that allows the terminals to continue to operate
and invest in upgrades and supports opportunities for growth through exceptions, such as aviation
or renewable fuels, to the storage capacity restrictions.
The City’s Enterprise Zone program, which provides a property tax exemption to industrial firms, is
one of the main ways in which the City of Portland provides strategic assistance to businesses.
These changes do not affect that program, and FFTs that make new capital investments remain
eligible for that program.
Policy 6.9. Small business development. Facilitate the success and growth of small businesses and
coordinate plans and investments with programs that provide technical and financial assistance to
promote sustainable operating practices.
173. Finding:  The City Council interprets this policy to provide direction to the City to provide technical
and financial assistance to small businesses, such as Prosper Portland’s Inclusive Business Resource
Network or the Thriving Small Business Loan Program. The FFTZ amendments is a land use decision
that amends the Zoning Code and does not change programs that provide technical and financial
assistance to small businesses. This policy does not apply.
Policy 6.10. Business innovation. Encourage innovation, research, development, and
commercialization of new technologies, products, and services through responsive regulations and
public sector approaches.
174. Finding:  The verb “encourage”, which is defined in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, means to
promote or foster using some combination of voluntary approaches, regulations, or incentives. The
City Council interprets this policy to apply to districts as whole and not to individual businesses or
sectors of business. These regulations apply to only one type of business that makes up a minority
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

part of the businesses found in Portland’s industrial districts. These changes support innovation at
existing fossil fuel terminals by designating them as a limited use, as opposed to a non-conforming
use, that allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in upgrades and supports
opportunities for growth through exceptions, such as aviation or renewable fuels, to the storage
capacity restrictions. Further, the use limitations provide flexibility to FFTs to replace and
reconfigure existing storage tank capacity to increase safety.
Policy 6.11. Sharing economy. Encourage mechanisms that enable individuals, corporations, non-
profits, and government to market, distribute, share, and reuse excess capacity in goods and services.
This includes peer-to-peer transactions, crowd funding platforms, and a variety of business models to
facilitate borrowing and renting unused resources.
175. Finding:  The verb “encourage”, which is defined in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, means to
promote or foster using some combination of voluntary approaches, regulations, or incentives. The
City Council interprets this policy to apply to districts as whole and not to individual businesses or
sectors of business. These regulations apply to only one type of business that makes up a minority
part of the businesses found in Portland’s industrial districts. This policy does not apply.
Policy 6.12. Economic role of livability and ecosystem services. Conserve and enhance Portland’s
cultural, historic, recreational, educational, food-related, and ecosystem assets and services for their
contribution to the local economy and their importance for retention and attraction of skilled workers
and businesses.
176. Finding:  The FFTZ map amendments do not affect Portland’s cultural, historic, recreational,
educational, food-related, and ecosystem assets and services for their contribution to the local
economy. These regulations apply to only one type of business that makes up a minority part of the
businesses found in Portland’s industrial districts. In considering the natural hazard risks that the
FFTs pose to the ecosystem services on the river, as identified by the Portland Bureau of Emergency
Management's Critical Energy Infrastructure Hub Study (2016), the City Council finds that
continuing to allow the unlimited increase in storage capacity at FFTs in a high risk area does not
enhance the current or future ecosystem services of the rivers. Therefore, the FFTZ regulations
focus on limiting risk by limiting fossil fuel storage capacity, but designate existing FFTs as a limited
use, which allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in facilities that reduce the risks
and improve their ability to withstand a major earthquake. These regulations will limit the risks to
the natural resource habitat functions and ecosystem services provided by the rivers.
Land development
Policy 6.13. Land supply. Provide supplies of employment land that are sufficient to meet the long-
term and short-term employment growth forecasts, adequate in terms of amounts and types of sites,
available and practical for development and intended uses. Types of sites are distinguished primarily
by employment geographies identified in the Economic Opportunities Analysis, although capacity
needs for building types with similar site characteristics can be met in other employment geographies.
177. Finding:  The verb “provide”, which is defined in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, means to supply,
offer, or make available. The City Council interprets this policy to mean that the City will provide an
adequate land base that is supported by public infrastructure investments that are needed to
support businesses. The FFTZ amendments are consistent with this policy because they do not
include map changes, nor do they allow for new incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes
do not conflict with the intent to provide an adequate land supply in Portland’s industrial districts,
as defined in the EOA. These regulations apply to only one type of business that makes up a
minority part of the businesses found in Portland’s industrial districts. The other industrial uses
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

continue to operate under current regulations. The FFTZ amendments do not amend the Citywide
System Plan or the Transportation System Plan, therefore the City continues to plan for public
infrastructure investments in the industrial districts where the FFTs are located.
Policy 6.14. Brownfield redevelopment. Overcome financial-feasibility gaps to cleanup and redevelop
60 percent of brownfield acreage by 2035.
178. Finding:  The City Council interprets this policy to mean that the City will create programs to
support the brownfield cleanup target. The FFTZ amendments are Zoning Code changes that are
not directly related to the cleanup of brownfields. However, the changes designate existing FFTs as
a limited use, which allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in facilities, including
brownfield remediation.
Policy 6.15. Regionally-competitive development sites. Improve the competitiveness of vacant and
underutilized sites located in Portland’s employment areas using incentives, and regional and state
assistance for needed infrastructure and site readiness improvements.
179. Finding:  The verb “improve”, which is defined in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, means to make the
current situation better; increase; enhance. The City Council interprets this policy to apply to the
city as whole and not to individual businesses or sectors of business. The FFTZ amendments are
consistent with this policy because they do not include map changes, nor do they allow for new
incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes maintain an adequate land supply in Portland’s
industrial districts. Further, these regulations apply to only one type of business that makes up a
minority part of the businesses found in Portland’s industrial districts. The other industrial uses
continue to operate under current regulations.  The FFTZ amendments do not amend the Citywide
System Plan or the Transportation System Plan, therefore the City continues to plan for public
infrastructure investments in the industrial districts where the FFTs are located. Finally, the City’s
Enterprise Zone program, which provides a property tax exemption to industrial firms, is one of the
key incentives that the City of Portland offers to encourage businesses to invest in sites. These
changes do not affect that program.
Policy 6.16. Regulatory climate. Improve development review processes and regulations to encourage
predictability and support local and equitable employment growth and encourage business retention,
including:
180. Finding:  The verb “improve”, which is defined in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, means to make the
current situation better; increase; enhance. The City Council interprets this policy to mean that
changes to development regulations should consider how those changes affect predictability,
equitable employment growth, and business retention. The City Council interprets this policy to
apply to the city as whole and not to individual businesses or sectors of business.
In terms of predictability, these development regulations apply to only one type of business that
makes up a minority part of the businesses found in Portland. The development regulations are
clear and objective, with clearly defined terms, such as what is a fossil fuel, to provide predictability
in regulating FFTs.
The City Council defines equitable employment growth as providing for job opportunities across a
wide range of wage scales, especially middle wage jobs such as those found in Portland’s industrial
districts. These regulations apply to only one type of business that makes up a minority part of the
businesses found in Portland’s industrial districts. The FFTZ amendments do not include map
changes, nor do they allow for new incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes do not change
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

the land capacity in Portland’s industrial districts and continue to support continued growth in
those districts.
The regulations are narrowly crafted to support the retention of existing fossil fuel terminals by
designating them as a limited use that allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in
upgrades and supports opportunities for growth through exceptions, such as aviation or renewable
fuels.
6.16.a. Assess and understand cumulative regulatory costs to promote Portland’s financial
competitiveness with other comparable cities.
181. Finding:  The City Council interprets this policy to apply to a consideration of the cost, in terms of
the time it takes to go through the development review process, the permit fees, and the system
development charges, associated with the development review process. This policy applies to the
city as whole and not to individual businesses or sectors of business. These regulations apply to
only one type of business that makes up a small part of the businesses found in Portland’s industrial
districts, therefore the regulatory cost impact is limited. The FFTZ amendments do not change any
of the associated permit fees or system development charges, therefore it does not impact
Portland’s financial competitiveness.
6.16.b. Promote certainty for new development through appropriate allowed uses and “clear
and objective” standards to permit typical development types without a discretionary review.
6.16.c. Allow discretionary-review to facilitate flexible and innovative approaches to meet
requirements.
182. Finding:  The City Council interprets policy 6.16.b and 6.16.c to work in tandem. Under policy
6.16.b, the direction is to promote certainty through appropriate allowed uses and “clear and
objective” standards. apply to the city as whole and not to individual businesses or sectors of
business. The regulations promote certainty by being narrowly crafted to apply only to fossil fuel
terminals. Designating FFTs as a limited use, as opposed to a non-conforming use, allows the
terminals to continue to operate and invest in upgrades and supports opportunities for growth
through exceptions, through clear and objective standards and definitions.
The City Council did not establish a discretionary conditional use review for the FFT use, due to the
moderate to high levels of liquefaction susceptibility, as documented by the Portland Bureau of
Emergency Management's 2016 Critical Energy Infrastructure Hub Study and the 2012 DOGAMI
Earthquake Risk Study for Oregon's Critical Energy Infrastructure Hub report. The City Council finds
that reducing risk from a major earthquake outweighs the policy direction to provide flexible and
innovative approaches to accommodating additional storage capacity through a discretionary
review process, in part, because continuing to locate all of the fossil fuel storage capacity in a high
risk area in Portland is counter to the 2013 Oregon Resilience Plan that recommends the
diversification of locations for the storage of liquid fuels and identification of new liquid fuel energy
corridors.. The FFTs with access to the river are within the Greenway Overlay Zone (33.440), which
establishes a discretionary review process to allow for industrial development, while preserving and
enhancing the riparian habitat along the river. The FFTZ amendments do not amend the Greenway
Overlay Zone standards or review process.
6.16.d. Design and monitor development review processes to avoid unnecessary delays.
183. Finding:  The FFTZ amendments do not modify the development review process for FFTs.
Designating the FFTs as a limited use does not subject those uses to new or additional development
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

reviews. This ordinance includes a directive for BPS to monitor the effectiveness of this regulation
and report back to City Council in two years.
6.16.e. Promote cost effective compliance with federal and state mandates, productive
intergovernmental coordination, and efficient, well-coordinated development review and
permitting procedures.
184. Finding:  The City Council interprets this policy to apply to districts as whole and not to individual
businesses or sectors of business. The City has an established procedure for coordinated review of
river-related development, including docks, in areas where city, state and federal agencies all have
jurisdiction. The Streamlining Team was established pursuant to a 2003 Intergovernmental
Agreement between the City of Portland (City), NOAA Fisheries, Army Corps of Engineers (Corps),
and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS). The FFTZ amendments do not change these
procedures and there is no impact to this coordinated process.
6.16.f. Consider short-term market conditions and how area development patterns will
transition over time when creating new development regulations.
185. Finding:  The City Council interprets this policy to apply to the city as whole and not to individual
businesses or sectors of business. As described in the adopted EOA, Portland has a tight supply of
industrial land. The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do they allow for new
incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes will not affect Portland’s short-term industrial
land supply. These regulations are consistent with Policy 6.37 (Industrial Sanctuaries) in that the
City does not expect the industrial character and development pattern in these districts to
transition over time. These changes support the retention of existing fossil fuel terminals by
designating them as a limited use that allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in
upgrades and supports opportunities for growth through exceptions, such as aviation or renewable
fuels.
Policy 6.17. Short-term land supply. Provide for a competitive supply of development-ready sites with
different site sizes and types, to meet five-year demand for employment growth in the Central City,
industrial areas, campus institutions, and neighborhood business districts.
186. Finding:  The verb “provide”, which is defined in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, means to supply,
offer, or make available. The City Council interprets this policy to mean that the City will provide an
adequate land base that is supported by public infrastructure investments that are needed to
support businesses. The FFTZ amendments are consistent with this policy because they do not
include map changes, nor do they allow for new incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes
do not conflict with the intent to provide an adequate land supply in Portland’s industrial districts.
These regulations apply to only one type of business that makes up a minority part of the
businesses found in Portland’s industrial districts. The other industrial uses continue to operate
under current regulations. The FFTZ amendments do not amend the Citywide System Plan or the
Transportation System Plan, therefore the City continues to plan for public infrastructure
investments in the industrial districts where the FFTs are located.
Policy 6.18. Evaluate land needs. Update the Economic Opportunities Analysis and short-term land
supply strategies every five to seven years.
187. Finding: The City Council interprets this policy to provide direction to the city to update the EOA.
The EOA was adopted in 2016 and is still within the time range. The FFTZ amendments do not
amend the EOA. Therefore, this policy does not apply.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy 6.19. Corporate headquarters. Provide land opportunities for development of corporate
headquarters campuses in locations with suitable transportation facilities.
188. Finding:  The verb “provide”, which is defined in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, means to supply,
offer, or make available. The City Council interprets this policy to mean that the City will provide an
adequate land base that is supported by public infrastructure investments that are needed for
corporate headquarters. The FFTZ amendments are consistent with this policy because they do not
include map changes, nor do they allow for new incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes
do not conflict with the intent to provide an adequate land supply in Portland’s industrial districts.
These regulations apply to only one type of business that makes up a minority part of the
businesses found in Portland’s industrial districts. The other industrial uses continue to operate
under current regulations. The FFTZ amendments do not amend the Citywide System Plan or the
Transportation System Plan, therefore the City continues to plan for public infrastructure
investments in the industrial districts where the FFTs are located.
Traded sector competitiveness
Policy 6.20. Traded sector competitiveness. Align plans and investments with efforts to improve the
city and regional business environment for traded sector and export growth. Participate in regional
and statewide initiatives.
Policy 6.21. Traded sector diversity. Encourage partnerships to foster the growth, small business
vitality, and diversity of traded sectors.
Policy 6.22. Clusters. Align plans and investments with efforts that direct strategic business
development resources to enhance the competitiveness of businesses in traded sector clusters.
189. Finding:  The 2035 Comprehensive Plan defines “traded sector” as a business sector consisting of
companies that compete in markets extending beyond the metropolitan region. The City Council
interprets policies 6.20 through 6.22 to apply to the city as whole and does not require the City to
allow for the unlimited expansion of individual businesses or sectors of business. The City Council
finds that fossil fuel energy is not identified as a key traded sector in city, regional or statewide
initiatives. The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do they allow for new
incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes do not conflict with the intent to maintain
Portland’s industrial districts as part of the efforts to support trade sector and export growth over
time. These changes support the retention of existing fossil fuel terminals by designating them as a
limited use, as opposed to a non-conforming use, that allows the terminals to continue to operate
and invest in upgrades and supports opportunities for growth through exceptions, such as aviation
or renewable fuels, to the storage capacity restrictions. The FFTZ amendments do not amend the
Citywide System Plan or the Transportation System Plan, therefore the City continues to plan for
public infrastructure investments to maintain and strengthen the multimodal transportation
infrastructure in the northwest industrial area as part of the City’s traded sector economic
development strategy.
Policy 6.23. Trade and freight hub. Encourage investment in transportation systems and services that
will retain and expand Portland’s competitive position as a West Coast trade gateway and freight
distribution hub.
190. Finding:  The verb “encourage”, which is defined in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, means to
promote or foster using some combination of voluntary approaches, regulations, or incentives. The
City Council interprets this policy to apply to the city as whole and not to individual businesses or
sectors of business. The City Council interprets the policy in two ways. First, the City will promote
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

and encourage public sector investments in the freight transportation system, including those by
the City, the Port of Portland, Metro, and the State of Oregon. The FFTZ amendments do not
amend the Citywide System Plan or the Transportation System Plan, therefore the City continues to
plan for public infrastructure investments to maintain and strengthen the multimodal
transportation infrastructure in the northwest industrial area where the FFTs are located.
Second, these changes support the continuing investment in existing fossil fuel terminals by
designating them as a limited use, as opposed to a non-conforming use, that allows the terminals to
continue to operate and invest in upgrades and supports opportunities for growth through
exceptions, such as aviation or renewable fuels. In addition, the ordinance does not regulate
transloading facilities, docks or pipelines – facilities that are key components of the multimodal
freight transportation system. Existing FFTs and other industrial uses can make investments in
multimodal freight facilities.
Finally, the City’s Enterprise Zone program, which provides a property tax exemption to industrial
firms, is one of the key incentives that the City of Portland offers to encourage businesses to invest
in their facilities, including private multi-modal transportation systems such as docks, pipelines and
transloading facilities. These changes do not affect that program, and FFTs that make new capital
investments remain eligible for that program.
Testimony by the Western States Petroleum Association claims that the ordinance will exclude
Portland from the national and international energy markets. There is no explanation of what the
opportunity is in national and international energy markets and no explanation as to how the
ordinance excludes Portland from those markets. Only fossil tank capacity is regulated. Other types
of infrastructure are not regulated by this ordinance. Furthermore, local and regional economic
development strategies do not identify the energy sector as a key target industry.
Policy 6.24. Traded sector land supply. Foster traded sector retention, growth, and competitive
advantages in industrial districts and the Central City. Recognize the concentration of traded-sector
businesses in these districts.
191. Finding:  The verb “foster”, which is defined in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, means to encourage
or guide the incremental development of something over a long period of time. The City Council
interprets this policy to apply to districts as whole and not to individual businesses or sectors of
business. The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do they allow for new
incompatible land uses, therefore, the retention, growth, and competitive advantages of Portland’s
industrial districts are maintained over time. These regulations are consistent with Policy 6.37
(Industrial Sanctuaries) in that the City does not expect the industrial character and development
pattern in these districts to transition over time. These changes support the retention of existing
fossil fuel terminals by designating them as a limited use that allows the terminals to continue to
operate and invest in upgrades and supports opportunities for growth through exceptions, such as
aviation or renewable fuels. The FFTZ amendments do not amend the Citywide System Plan or the
Transportation System Plan, therefore the City continues to plan for public infrastructure
investments to maintain and strengthen the multimodal transportation infrastructure in the
northwest industrial area where the FFTs are located.
Policy 6.25. Import substitution. Encourage local goods production and service delivery that
substitute for imports and help keep the money Portlanders earn in the local economy.
192. Finding: The Council interprets this policy to encourage a strong local manufacturing and service
delivery sector.  The policy is not intended to and should not be read to discourage imported goods
or services or place any burdens on interstate commerce. The FFTZ amendments do not include
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

map changes, nor do they allow for new incompatible land uses; therefore, these changes do not
conflict with the intent to maintain Portland’s industrial districts over time, which provides a land
supply for local businesses that produce goods and deliver services. The FFTZ amendments do not
amend the Citywide System Plan or the Transportation System Plan; therefore, the City continues
to plan for public infrastructure investments to maintain and strengthen the multimodal
transportation infrastructure in the northwest industrial area that can support service delivery.
Policy 6.26. Business opportunities in urban innovation. Strive to have Portland’s built environment,
businesses, and infrastructure systems showcase examples of best practices of innovation and
sustainability.
193. Finding: These regulations apply to only one type of business that makes up a minority part of the
businesses found in Portland’s industrial districts. The other industrial uses continue to operate
under current regulations. This policy does not apply.
Equitable household prosperity
Policy 6.27. Income self-sufficiency. Expand access to self-sufficient wage levels and career ladders for
low-income people by maintaining an adequate and viable supply of employment land and public
facilities to support and expand opportunities in Portland for middle- and high-wage jobs that do not
require a 4-year college degree.
6.27.a. Support the role of industrial districts as a leading source of middle-wage jobs that do not
require a 4-year college degree and as a major source of wage-disparity reduction for under-
served and under-represented communities.
6.27.b. Evaluate and limit negative impacts of plans and investments on middle and high wage job
creation and retention.
194. Finding: The 2035 Comprehensive Plan defines “expand” as make something that already exists
more extensive. The City Council finds income self-sufficiency is dependent on access to job
opportunities across a wide range of wage scales, especially middle wage jobs such as those found
in Portland’s industrial districts. The City Council interprets this policy to apply to districts as whole
and not to individual businesses or sectors of business. The FFTZ amendments apply to only one
type of business that makes up a minority part of the businesses found in Portland’s industrial
districts. The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do they allow for new
incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes do not change the land capacity in Portland’s
industrial districts and continue to support continued employment growth in those districts.
The regulations are narrowly crafted to support the retention of existing fossil fuel terminals by
designating them as a limited use that allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in
upgrades and supports opportunities for growth through exceptions, such as aviation or renewable
fuels.
The FFTZ amendments do not amend the Citywide System Plan or the Transportation System Plan,
therefore the City continues to plan for public infrastructure investments to maintain and
strengthen the multimodal transportation infrastructure in the northwest industrial area that can
support the growth of middle wage jobs.
Policy 6.28. East Portland job growth. Encourage investment in, and alignment of, poverty-reduction
efforts that address economic development, land use, transportation, housing, social services, public
health, community development, and workforce development.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

195. Finding:  The City Council interprets this policy to apply to districts as whole and not to individual
businesses or sectors of business. There are no FFTs in East Portland. The FFTZ amendments apply
to only one type of business that makes up a minority part of the businesses found in Portland’s
industrial districts. The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do they allow for new
incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes do not change the land capacity in Portland’s
industrial districts and continue to support continued employment growth in those districts,
including the existing industrial and employment land in East Portland.
Policy 6.29. Poverty reduction. Encourage investment in, and alignment of, poverty-reduction efforts
that address economic development, land use, transportation, housing, social services, public health,
community development, and workforce development.
Policy 6.30. Disparity reduction. Encourage investment in, and alignment of, public efforts to reduce
racial, ethnic, and disability-related disparities in income and employment opportunity.
196. Finding:  For policies 6.29 and 6.30, the City Council finds that access to job opportunities across a
wide range of wage scales, especially middle wage jobs such as those found in Portland’s industrial
districts is a key element of poverty and disparity reduction efforts. The City Council interprets this
policy to apply to districts as whole and not to individual businesses or sectors of business. The FFTZ
amendments apply to only one type of business that makes up a minority part of the businesses
found in Portland’s industrial districts. The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do
they allow for new incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes do not change the land
capacity in Portland’s industrial districts and continue to support continued employment growth in
those districts.
Policy 6.31. Minority-owned, woman-owned and emerging small business (MWESB) assistance.
Ensure that plans and investments improve access to contracting opportunities for minority-owned,
woman-owned, and emerging small businesses.
197. Finding:  The City Council interprets this policy to focused on supporting minority-owned, woman-
owned, and emerging small businesses through City programs.  This policy does not apply.
Policy 6.32. Urban renewal plans. Encourage urban renewal plans to primarily benefit existing
residents and businesses within the urban renewal area through:
1. Revitalization of neighborhoods.
2. Expansion of housing choices.
3. Creation of business and job opportunities.
4. Provision of transportation linkages.
5. Protection of residents and businesses from the threats posed by gentrification and
displacement.
6. The creation and enhancement of those features which improve the quality of life
within the urban renewal area.
198. Finding:  The City Council interprets this policy to focused on urban renewal plans and not the
Zoning Code. There are three urban renewal areas (Central Eastside, Willamette Industrial and
Airport Way) that have industrial zoning that is amended by this ordinance. None of the existing
FFTs are in the URAs. The FFTZ amendments do not include changes to any urban renewal plans.
This policy does not apply.
Central City
Policy 6.33. Central City. Improve the Central City’s regional share of employment and continue its
growth as the unique center of both the city and the region for innovation and exchange through
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

commerce, employment, arts, culture, entertainment, tourism, education, and government.
Policy 6.34. Central City industrial districts. Protect and facilitate the long-term success of Central City
industrial districts, while supporting their evolution into places with a broad mix of businesses with
high employment densities.
Policy 6.35. Innovation districts. Provide for expanding campus institutions in the Central City and
Marquam Hill, and encourage business development that builds on their research and development
strengths.
199. Finding:  The FFTZ amendments change allowed uses in the City’s industrial areas. There are no
FFTs located in the Central City. These policies do not apply.
Industrial and employment districts
Policy 6.36. Industrial land. Provide industrial land that encourages industrial business retention,
growth, and traded sector competitiveness as a West Coast trade and freight hub, a regional center of
diverse manufacturing, and a widely-accessible base of family-wage jobs, particularly for under-served
and under-represented people.
200. Finding:  The verb “provide”, which is defined in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, means to supply,
offer, or make available. The City Council interprets this policy to apply to districts as whole and not
to individual businesses or sectors of business. The City Council interprets this policy to be satisfied
by maintaining an adequate industrial land base as determined by the EOA. The FFTZ amendments
do not include map changes, nor do they allow for new incompatible land uses, therefore, these
changes do not reduce the industrial land designated in Portland. This ordinance does not amend
the EOA. These changes support the retention of existing fossil fuel terminals by designating them
as a limited use that allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in upgrades and
supports opportunities for growth through exceptions, such as aviation or renewable fuels, to the
storage capacity restrictions.
Policy 6.37. Industrial sanctuaries. Protect industrial land as industrial sanctuaries identified on the
Comprehensive Plan Map primarily for manufacturing and distribution uses and to encourage the
growth of industrial activities in the city.
201. Finding:  The verb “protect”, which is defined in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, means to defend or
guard against loss, injury, or destruction. The City Council interprets this policy to apply to the city
as whole and does not require the City to allow for the unlimited expansion of individual businesses
or sectors of business. The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do they allow for
new incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes will maintain Portland’s industrial
sanctuaries as part of strategy to maintain an adequate industrial land base as determined by the
EOA. These regulations are consistent with this policy in that the City does not expect the industrial
character and development pattern in these districts to transition over time. These changes
support the retention of existing fossil fuel terminals by designating them as a limited use that
allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in upgrades and supports opportunities for
growth through exceptions, such as aviation or renewable fuels, to the storage capacity restrictions.
The FFTZ amendments do not amend the Citywide System Plan or the Transportation System Plan,
therefore the City continues to plan for public infrastructure investments to maintain and
strengthen the multimodal transportation infrastructure in the northwest industrial area where the
FFTs are located.

Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy 6.38. Prime industrial land retention. Protect the multimodal freight-hub industrial districts at
the Portland Harbor, Columbia Corridor, and Brooklyn Yard as prime industrial land that is prioritized
for long-term retention.
202. Finding:  The City Council finds that this policy is implemented through the Prime Industrial Overlay
Zone. The FFTZ amendments do not include changes to the overlay zone or to the Zoning Map
where it is applied. The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do they allow for new
incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes will maintain the prime industrial land for long-
term retention.
6.38.a. Protect prime industrial lands from quasi-judicial Comprehensive Plan Map amendments
that convert prime industrial land to non-industrial uses, and consider the potential for other map
amendments to otherwise diminish the economic competitiveness or viability of prime industrial
land.
203. Finding:  The City Council finds that this policy applies to quasi-judicial decisions.  Even if it did apply
here, the City Council finds that this policy is implemented through the Prime Industrial Overlay
Zone. The FFTZ amendments do not include changes to the overlay zone or to the Zoning Map
where it is applied. The FFTZ amendments do not allow for new incompatible land uses or other
map amendments, therefore, these changes will maintain the economic competitiveness or
viability of prime industrial land.
6.38.b. Limit conversion of prime industrial land through land use plans, regulations, or public land
acquisition for non-industrial uses, especially land that can be used by river-dependent and river-
related industrial uses.
204. Finding:  The City Council finds that this policy is implemented through the Prime Industrial Overlay
Zone. The FFTZ amendments do not include changes to the overlay zone or to the Zoning Map
where it is applied. The FFTZ amendments apply to only one type of business that makes up a
minority part of the businesses found in Portland’s industrial districts. The FFTZ amendments do
not include map changes, nor do they allow for new incompatible land uses, that would lead to the
conversion of prime industrial land. The ordinance does not authorize public land acquisition.
6.38.c. Limit regulatory impacts on the capacity, affordability, and viability of industrial uses in the
prime industrial area while ensuring environmental resources are also protected.
205. Finding:  The City Council interprets this policy to require a balance between minimizing regulations
on industrial uses while at the same time protecting environmental resources.  Council finds that
the limits here are storage limitations as it applies to one industrial use. Those limitations are
carefully crafted to ensure that the industrial uses remain viable while still protecting the
environmental resources.
6.38.d. Strive to offset the reduction of development capacity as needed, with additional prime
industrial capacity that includes consideration of comparable site characteristics. Offsets may
include but are not limited to additional brownfield remediation, industrial use intensification,
strategic investments, and other innovative tools and partnerships that increase industrial
utilization of industrial land.
206. Finding:  The City Council interprets this policy to apply to districts as whole and not to individual
businesses or sectors of business. The FFTZ amendments do not include changes to the overlay
zone or to the Zoning Map where it is applied. The FFTZ amendments apply to only one type of use
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

that makes up a minority part of the uses found in Portland’s industrial districts. The FFTZ
amendments do not include map changes, nor do they allow for new incompatible land uses, that
would lead to the conversion of prime industrial land, therefore, there is no reduction in
development capacity.
Further, BPS presented evidence that national petroleum consumption forecast out to 2050 is
essentially flat, which is a continuation of historic trends in Oregon and Washington, during a
period of a thriving economy. In addition, ODOT is forecasting a decline in motor fuel consumption
over the medium term to 2029. The more recent cargo forecasts project a modest growth in
volumes, but those volumes do not exceed the historic peak volumes that were handled by the
Portland terminals. No other evidence of future demand for fossil fuels was submitted in testimony.
Therefore, the City Council finds that the fossil fuel storage capacity at the existing FFTs is sufficient
to meet future needs. Therefore, no offsets are needed.
6.38.e. Protect prime industrial land for siting of parks, schools, large-format places of assembly,
and large-format retail sales.
207. Finding:  The City Council finds that this policy is implemented through the Prime Industrial Overlay
Zone. The FFTZ amendments do not include changes to the overlay zone or to the Zoning Map
where it is applied.
6.38.f. Promote efficient use of freight hub infrastructure and prime industrial land by limiting
non-industrial uses that do not need to be in the prime industrial area.
208. Finding:  The City Council finds that this policy is implemented through the Prime Industrial Overlay
Zone. The FFTZ amendments do not include changes to the overlay zone or to the Zoning Map
where it is applied. The FFTZ amendments do not allow for new incompatible land uses. Therefore,
non-industrial uses continue to be limited.
Policy 6.39. Harbor access lands. Limit use of harbor access lands to river- or rail-dependent or related
industrial land uses due to the unique and necessary infrastructure and site characteristics of harbor
access lands for river-dependent industrial uses.
209. Finding:  The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do they allow for new
incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes will maintain Portland’s harbor access lands for
river- or rail-dependent or related industrial uses.
Policy 6.40. Portland Harbor Superfund Site. Take a leadership role to facilitate a cleanup of the
Portland Harbor that moves forward as quickly as possible and that allocates cleanup costs fairly and
equitably. Encourage a science-based and cost-effective cleanup solution that facilitates re-use of land
for river- or rail-dependent or related industrial uses.
210. Finding:  The City Council interprets this policy to mean that the City will take a lead role to facilitate
cleanup of the Portland Harbor. The FFTZ amendments are Zoning Code changes that are not
directly related to the cleanup of Portland Harbor. The FFTZ amendments do not include map
changes, nor do they allow for new incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes will maintain
Portland’s industrial sanctuaries for river- or rail-dependent or related industrial uses. However, the
changes designate existing FFTs as a limited use, which allows the terminals to continue to operate
and invest in facilities, including brownfield remediation related to the Portland Harbor cleanup
efforts.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy 6.41. Multimodal freight corridors. Encourage freight-oriented industrial development to
locate where it can maximize the use of and support reinvestment in multimodal freight corridors.
211. Finding:  The verb “encourage”, which is defined in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, means to
promote or foster using some combination of voluntary approaches, regulations, or incentives. The
City Council interprets this policy to apply to districts as whole and not to individual businesses or
sectors of business. The City Council finds that the policy requires the City to promote freight-
oriented industrial development to locate near existing multimodal freight corridors, which is
primarily done through applying industrial zoning. The FFTZ amendments do not include map
changes, nor do they allow for new incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes continue to
support freight-oriented industrial development. These regulations apply to only one type of
business that makes up a small part of the businesses found in Portland’s industrial districts.
Transloading facilities are a defining characteristic of a Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminal, however, the
ordinance does not regulate transloading facilities and only limits new fossil fuel storage tank
capacity. These changes support the retention of existing fossil fuel terminals by designating them
as a limited use that allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in upgrades to their
intermodal facilities and supports opportunities for growth through exceptions, such as aviation or
renewable fuels. Finally, the ordinance does not regulate transloading facilities, docks or pipelines –
facilities that are key components of the multimodal freight transportation system. Existing FFTs
and other industrial uses can make investments in multimodal freight facilities. The FFTZ
amendments do not amend the Citywide System Plan or the Transportation System Plan, therefore
the City continues to plan for public infrastructure investments to maintain and strengthen the
multimodal transportation infrastructure in the northwest industrial area where the FFTs are
located.
Policy 6.42. Columbia East. Provide a mix of industrial and limited business park development in
Columbia East (east of 82nd Avenue) that expand employment opportunities supported by proximity
to Portland International Airport and multimodal freight access.
212. Finding:  The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do they allow for new
incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes are consistent with the intent to provide a mix of
industrial and limited business park development in Columbia East. The FFTZ amendments affect
one type of allowed use in employment and industrial zones and do not change development
standards that apply to development in those zones. None of the existing FFTs are located in the
Columbia East geography.
Policy 6.43. Dispersed employment areas. Provide small, dispersed employment areas for a flexible
and affordable mix of office, creative services, small-scale manufacturing, traded sector and
distribution, and other small-format light industrial and commercial uses with access to nearby
freeways or truck streets.
213. Finding:  The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do they allow for new
incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes are consistent with the intent to provide small,
dispersed employment areas across Portland. The FFTZ amendments affect one type of allowed use
in employment and industrial zones and do not change development standards that apply to
development in those zones. None of the existing FFTs are located in these dispersed employment
areas.
Policy 6.44. Industrial land use intensification. Encourage reinvestment in, and intensification of,
industrial land use, as measured by output and throughput per acre.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

214. Finding:  The verb “encourage”, which is defined in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, means to
promote or foster using some combination of voluntary approaches, regulations, or incentives. The
City Council interprets this policy to apply to industrial districts as whole and not to individual
businesses or sectors of business. The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do they
allow for new incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes are consistent with the intent to
maintain Portland’s industrial districts over time. These changes support the reinvestment in
existing fossil fuel terminals by designating them as a limited use that allows the terminals to
continue to operate and invest in upgrades and supports opportunities for growth through
exceptions, such as aviation or renewable fuels. Further, the use limitations (33.140.100.B.17.a)
provide flexibility to FFTs to replace and reconfigure existing storage tank capacity to increase
safety.
The City’s Enterprise Zone program, which provides a property tax exemption to industrial firms, is
one of the key incentives that the City of Portland offers to encourage businesses to invest in their
facilities, including private multi-modal transportation systems such as docks, pipelines and
transloading facilities. These changes do not affect that program, and FFTs that make new capital
investments remain eligible for that program.
Policy 6.45. Industrial brownfield redevelopment. Provide incentives, investments, technical
assistance and other direct support to overcome financial-feasibility gaps to enable remediation and
redevelopment of brownfields for industrial growth.
215. Finding:  The City Council interprets this policy to mean that the City will create programs to
support brownfield cleanup in industrial areas. The FFTZ amendments are Zoning Code changes
that are not directly related to the cleanup of brownfields. However, the changes designate existing
FFTs as a limited use, which allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in facilities,
including brownfield remediation.
Policy 6.46. Impact analysis. Evaluate and monitor the impacts on industrial land capacity that may
result from land use plans, regulations, public land acquisition, public facility development, and other
public actions to protect and preserve existing industrial lands.
216. Finding: The City Council interprets this policy to provide direction to the city to evaluate and
monitor industrial land capacity and development trends that result from plan and zoning changes.
The ordinance includes a directive for BPS to monitor the effectiveness of this regulation and report
back to City Council in two years.
Policy 6.47. Clean, safe, and green. Encourage improvements to the cleanliness, safety, and ecological
performance of industrial development and freight corridors by facilitating adoption of market
feasible new technology and design.
217. Finding:  The verb “encourage”, which is defined in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, means to
promote or foster using some combination of voluntary approaches, regulations, or incentives. The
FFTZ amendments affect one type of allowed use in employment and industrial zones and do not
change development standards that apply to development in those zones. These changes
encourage improvements by designating existing FFTs as a limited use that allows the terminals to
continue to operate and invest in upgrades that can improve the cleanliness, safety, and ecological
performance of FFTs.
Policy 6.48.  Fossil fuel distribution. Limit fossil fuels distribution and storage facilities to those
necessary to serve the regional market.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

218. Finding:  The 2035 Comprehensive Plan defines “limit” as to minimize or reduce relative to the
current situation or to a potential future situation. The City Council interprets the phrase “regional
market” to mean the state of Oregon and Southwest Washington in recognition that Portland’s
fossil fuel terminals currently handle 90% of the fossil fuels consumed in Oregon and Southwest
Washington. BPS presented evidence that national petroleum consumption forecast out to 2050 is
essentially flat, which is a continuation of historic trends in Oregon and Washington, during a
period of a thriving economy. In addition, ODOT is forecasting a decline in motor fuel consumption
over the medium term to 2029. The more recent cargo forecasts project a modest growth in
volumes, but those volumes do not exceed the historic peak volumes that were handled by the
Portland terminals. No other evidence of future demand for fossil fuels was submitted in testimony.
Therefore, the City Council finds that the fossil fuel storage capacity at the existing FFTs is sufficient
to meet future needs.
These changes support the retention of existing fossil fuel terminals by designating them as a
limited use that allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in upgrades and supports
opportunities for growth through exceptions, such as aviation or renewable fuels. Further, the use
limitations (33.140.100.B.17.a) provide flexibility to FFTs to replace and reconfigure existing storage
tank capacity to increase safety. In addition, limiting storage capacity to the existing facilities, with
some exceptions, reduces risk from a major earthquake, which outweighs the policy direction to
provide capacity to accommodate any potential future increase in fossil fuel consumption, in part,
because continuing to locate all of the fossil fuel storage capacity in a high risk area in Portland is
counter to the 2013 Oregon Resilience Plan that recommends the diversification of locations for
the storage of liquid fuels and identification of new liquid fuel energy corridors.
Testimony by the Working Waterfront Coalition asserts that it is important for FFTs to invest in
facilities as “demand continues”. The testimony does not define or explain what is meant by the
phrase “as demand continues”. BPS presented evidence that national petroleum consumption
forecast out to 2050 is essentially flat. In addition, ODOT is forecasting a decline in motor fuel
consumption over the medium term to 2029. No other evidence of future demand for fossil fuels
was submitted in testimony. Therefore, the City Council finds that the fossil fuel storage capacity at
the existing FFTs is sufficient to meet future needs.
Testimony by the Western States Petroleum Association claims that the ordinance will undercut the
ability to meet future energy needs; prevent and discourage equipment upgrades necessary to
meet market demand; or fail to provide sufficient facilities and tank capacity to serve future energy
needs. Only new fossil storage tank capacity is restricted, other equipment upgrades are allowed.
“Future energy needs” are not defined. No supporting evidence is provided to define “market
demand” or what is needed to meet “future energy needs”. Additional testimony by the Western
States Petroleum Association claims that the ordinance will freeze current infrastructure in place
and would be insufficient for future fuel demand, by both quantity and type of fuel. “Future fuel
demand” is not defined. The ordinance will not “freeze current infrastructure in place”. The FFTZ
amendments designate existing FFTs as a limited use specifically to allow the FFTs to continue to
operate to supply fossil fuels and to allow for safety and seismic upgrades. Transloading facilities
are a defining characteristic of a Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminal, however, the ordinance only limits new
fossil fuel storage tank capacity. Existing fossil fuel storage tank capacity can be reconfigured. Other
aspects of terminal infrastructure (pipelines, docks, transloading facilities) are not regulated by this
ordinance. BPS presented evidence that national petroleum consumption forecast out to 2050 is
essentially flat, which is a continuation of historic trends in Oregon and Washington, during a
period of a thriving economy. In addition, ODOT is forecasting a decline in motor fuel consumption
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

over the medium term to 2029. Therefore, the fossil fuel storage capacity at the existing FFTs is
sufficient to meet future needs.
Testimony by Zenith Energy claims that the ordinance will inhibit infrastructure upgrades to “meet
changing market demands”. There is no explanation of what are “changing market demands” or as
why to storage capacity expansion is needed in conjunction with other infrastructure upgrades. The
ordinance restricts new fossil storage tank capacity, other safety upgrades are allowed. BPS
presented evidence that national petroleum consumption forecast out to 2050 is essentially flat,
which is a continuation of historic trends in Oregon and Washington. In addition, ODOT is
forecasting a decline in motor fuel consumption over the medium term to 2029. Therefore, the
fossil fuel storage capacity at the existing FFTs is sufficient to meet future needs.
Policy 6.49. Industrial growth and watershed health. Facilitate concurrent strategies to protect and
improve industrial capacity and watershed health in the Portland Harbor and Columbia Corridor areas.
219. Finding:  The 2035 Comprehensive Plan defines “facilitate” to mean to make something easier, to
help bring about or make run more smoothly.  The verb “improve”, which is defined in the 2035
Comprehensive Plan, means to make the current situation better; increase; enhance. Council
interprets the policy to mean that the city should make strategies that both protect and improve
industrial capacity will also protect and improve the watershed health easier.  The City Council finds
that the first step in making the current situation better is to ensure that the situation does not get
worse. Continuing to allow the increase in FFTs in a high risk area increases the risk to watershed
health. The FFTZ amendments are a regulatory approach that will limit the size of new fossil fuel
terminals and prohibit the expansion of storage capacity at existing fossil fuel terminals, with
limited exceptions for aviation and renewable fuels, which will be an improvement compared to the
current regulations that allow for unlimited growth in FFTs. The FFTZ amendments do not include
map changes, nor do they allow for new incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes maintain
Portland’s industrial capacity. These regulations apply to only one type of business that makes up a
minority part of the businesses found in Portland’s industrial districts. The remaining industrial uses
continue to operate under current regulations. The FFTZ regulations designate existing FFTs as a
limited use, which allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in facilities that reduce
the risks and improve their ability to withstand a major earthquake. Allowing the FFTs to continue
to operate and invest in upgrades will help support a strong local economy by providing for a
continuing supply of fossil fuels to support a strong local economy.  Therefore, the FFT
amendments do not impact the industrial capacity but at the same time they do protect and
improve the watershed health.
Policy 6.50. District expansion. Provide opportunities for expansion of industrial areas based on
evaluation of forecasted need and the ability to meet environmental, social, economic, and other
goals.
220. Finding:  The City Council interprets this policy to apply to Comprehensive Plan Map and Zoning
Map amendments to expand industrial land use designations. The FFTZ amendments are a
regulatory approach that will limit the size of new fossil fuel terminals and prohibit the expansion of
storage capacity at existing fossil fuel terminals, with limited exceptions for aviation and renewable
fuels. The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do they allow for new incompatible
land uses, therefore, these changes maintain Portland’s industrial capacity. This policy does not
apply.
Policy 6.51. Golf course reuse and redevelopment. Facilitate a mix of industrial, natural resource, and
public open space uses on privately-owned golf course sites in the Columbia Corridor that property
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

owners make available for reuse.
221. Finding:  The City Council interprets this policy to apply to Comprehensive Plan Map and Zoning
Map amendments. The FFTZ amendments are a regulatory approach that will limit the size of new
fossil fuel terminals and prohibit the expansion of storage capacity at existing fossil fuel terminals,
with limited exceptions for aviation and renewable fuels. The FFTZ amendments do not include
map changes, nor do they allow for new incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes maintain
Portland’s industrial capacity. This policy does not apply.
Policy 6.52. Residential and commercial reuse. Facilitate compatible industrial or employment
redevelopment on residential or commercial sites that become available for reuse if the site is in or
near prime industrial areas, and near a freeway or on a freight street.
222. Finding: The FFTZ amendments affect one type of allowed use in employment and industrial zones
and do not change development standards that apply to development in those zones. This policy
does not apply.
Policy 6.53. Mitigation banks. Facilitate industrial site development by promoting and allowing
environmental mitigation banks that serve industrial land uses on prime industrial land.
223. Finding: The 2035 Comprehensive Plan defines “facilitate” to mean to make something easier, to
help bring about or make run more smoothly.  The City Council interprets this policy means to
assist, but is not a requirement. The FFTZ amendments affect one type of allowed use in
employment and industrial zones and do not change development standards that apply to
development in those zones, including environmental mitigation banks. This policy does not apply.
Policy 6.54. Neighborhood buffers. Maintain and enhance major natural areas, open spaces, and
constructed features as boundaries and buffers for the Portland Harbor and Columbia Corridor
industrial areas.
224. Finding: The FFTZ amendments affect one type of allowed use in employment and industrial zones
and do not change development standards that apply to development in those zones. This policy
does not apply.
Policy 6.55. Neighborhood park use. Allow neighborhood park development within industrial zones
where needed to provide adequate park service within one-half mile of every resident.
225. Finding: This policy addresses park development in industrial zones. The FFTZ amendments affect
one type of allowed use in employment and industrial zones and do not change development
standards that apply to development in those zones. This policy does not apply.
Campus institutions
Policy 6.56. Campus institutions. Provide for the stability and growth of Portland’s major campus
institutions as essential service providers, centers of innovation, workforce development resources, and
major employers.
Policy 6.57. Campus land use. Provide for major campus institutions as a type of employment land,
allowing uses typically associated with health care and higher education institutions. Coordinate with
institutions in changing campus zoning to provide land supply that is practical for development and
intended uses.
Policy 6.58. Development impacts. Protect the livability of surrounding neighborhoods through
adequate infrastructure and campus development standards that foster suitable density and attractive
campus design. Minimize off-site impacts in collaboration with institutions and neighbors, especially to
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

reduce automobile traffic and parking impacts.
Policy 6.59. Community amenities and services. Encourage campus development that provides
amenities and services to surrounding neighborhoods, emphasizing the role of campuses as centers of
community activity.
Policy 6.60. Campus edges. Provide for context-sensitive, transitional uses, and development at the
edges of campus institutions to enhance their integration into surrounding neighborhoods, including
mixed-use and neighborhood-serving commercial uses where appropriate.
Policy 6.61. Satellite facilities. Encourage opportunities for expansion of uses, not integral to campus
functions, to locate in centers and corridors to support their economic vitality.
226. Finding:  Policies 6.56 through 6.61 provide direction regarding campus institutions. The FFTZ
amendments change allowed uses in the City’s industrial areas. There are no FFTs located on
campus institutions. These policies do not apply.
Neighborhood business districts
Policy 6.62. Neighborhood business districts. Provide for the growth, economic equity, and vitality of
neighborhood business districts.
Policy 6.63. District function. Enhance the function of neighborhood business districts as a foundation
of neighborhood livability.
Policy 6.64. Small, independent businesses. Facilitate the retention and growth of small and locally-
owned businesses.
Policy 6.65. Home-based businesses. Encourage and expand allowances for small, low-impact home
based businesses in residential areas, including office or personal service uses with infrequent or by-
appointment customer or client visits to the site. Allow a limited number of employees, within the
scale of activity typical in residential areas. Allow home-based businesses on sites with accessory
dwelling units.
Policy 6.66. Neighborhood-serving business. Provide for neighborhood business districts and small
commercial nodes in areas between centers to expand local access to goods and services. Allow nodes
of small-scale neighborhood-serving commercial uses in large planned developments and as a ground
floor use in high density residential areas.
Policy 6.67. Retail development. Provide for a competitive supply of retail sites that support the wide
range of consumer needs for convenience, affordability, accessibility, and diversity of goods and
services, especially in under-served areas of Portland.
Policy 6.68. Investment priority. Prioritize commercial revitalization investments in neighborhoods
that serve communities with limited access to goods
and services.
Policy 6.69. Non-conforming neighborhood business uses. Limit non-conforming uses to reduce
adverse impacts on nearby residential uses while avoiding displacement of existing neighborhood
businesses.
Policy 6.70. Involuntary commercial displacement. Evaluate plans and investments for their impact
on existing businesses.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

6.70.a. Limit involuntary commercial displacement in areas at risk of gentrification, and
incorporate tools to reduce the cost burden of rapid neighborhood change on small business
owners vulnerable to displacement.
6.70.b. Encourage the preservation and creation of affordable neighborhood commercial space to
support a broad range of small business owners.
Policy 6.71. Temporary and informal markets and structures. Acknowledge and support the role that
temporary markets (farmer’s markets, craft markets, flea markets, etc.) and other temporary or
mobile-vending structures play in enabling startup business activity. Also, acknowledge that
temporary uses may ultimately be replaced by more permanent development and uses.
Policy 6.72 Community economic development. Encourage collaborative approaches to align land
use and neighborhood economic development for residents and business owners to better connect
and compete in the regional economy.
Policy 6.73. Centers. Encourage concentrations of commercial services and employment opportunities
in centers.
6.73.a. Encourage a broad range of neighborhood commercial services in centers to help residents
and others in the area meet daily needs and/or serve as neighborhood gathering places.
6.73.b. Encourage the retention and further development of grocery stores and local markets as
essential elements of centers.
6.73.c. Enhance opportunities for services and activities in centers that are responsive to the
needs of the populations and cultural groups of the surrounding area.
6.73.d. Require ground-level building spaces in core areas of centers accommodate commercial or
other street-activating uses and services.
6.73.e. Encourage employment opportunities as a key function of centers, including connections
between centers, institutions, and other major employers to reinforce their roles as vibrant
centers of activity.
227. Finding:  Policies 6.62 through 6.73 provide direction regarding neighborhood business districts.
The FFTZ amendments change allowed uses in the City’s industrial areas. There are no FFTs located
in neighborhood business districts. These policies do not apply.

Chapter 7: Environmental and Watershed Health
Goal 7.A: Climate. Carbon emissions are reduced to 50 percent below 1990 levels by 2035.
228. Finding:  The City Council finds that in order to achieve this goal, each legislative action should
consider whether it can play a role in reducing the carbon emissions The FFTZ amendments will
limit the size of new fossil fuel terminals and prohibit the expansion of storage capacity at existing
fossil fuel terminals, with limited exceptions for aviation and renewable fuels. The FFTZ
amendments help provide a transition to a reliable, low-carbon energy infrastructure by
designating existing FFTs as a limited use, which allows the terminals to continue to operate and
invest in facilities to increase safety and reliability. In addition, the definition of fossil fuels explicitly
does not include ethanol, biodiesel/renewable diesel other fuel additives that will allows FTTs to
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

add storage capacity to provide reliable low-carbon fuels to help meet the carbon emissions
reduction goals.
Goal 7.B: Healthy watersheds and environment. Ecosystem services and ecosystem functions are
maintained and watershed conditions have improved over time, supporting public health and safety,
environmental quality, fish and wildlife, cultural values, economic prosperity, and the intrinsic value of
nature.
229. Finding: The FFTZ amendments foster a healthy environment and sustain the ecosystem services of
Portland’s air, water and land by reducing the risk associated with a major earthquake. The first
step in making the current situation better is to ensure that the situation does not get worse by
continuing to allow the unlimited increase in fossil fuel terminal storage tank capacity in a high risk
area. The FFTZ amendments are a regulatory approach that will limit the size of new fossil fuel
terminals and prohibit the expansion of storage capacity at existing fossil fuel terminals, with
limited exceptions for aviation and renewable fuels, which will be an improvement compared to
the current regulations that allow for unlimited growth in fossil fuel terminals. Further, by
designating existing FFTs as a limited use allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in
facilities that reduce the risks and improve their ability to withstand a major earthquake, which can
minimize environmental impacts in the event of a major earthquake. No changes to the
environmental or greenway overlay zones are proposed as part of this project, therefore the
natural resource values and functions will be sustained.
Goal 7.C: Resilience. Portland’s built and natural environments function in complementary ways and
are resilient in the face of climate change and natural hazards.
230. Finding:  The City Council finds that the built and natural environments function in complementary
ways when they both function without harming the other. The 2035 Comprehensive Plan defines
“resilience” as the capability to anticipate, prepare for, respond to, and recover from significant
multi-hazard threats with minimum damage to social well-being, the economy, and the
environment. Portland’s FFTs are within a disaster-prone area that is at risk for a catastrophic
Cascadia earthquake disaster. Most of Portland’s employment and industrial zones are in areas with
high to very high levels of liquefaction susceptibility, as documented by the 2018 DOGAMI
Earthquake Regional Impact Analysis. Fossil fuel infrastructure poses considerable risks in the event
of a major earthquake.
According to the 2012 DOGAMI Earthquake Risk Study for Oregon's Critical Energy Infrastructure
Hub report, a magnitude 8 or 9 Cascadia Subduction Zone earthquake would impact the CEI Hub
with: ground shaking; liquefaction (soil behavior phenomenon in which a saturated sand softens
and loses strength during strong earthquake ground shaking); lateral spreading (where surficial soil
permanently moves laterally due to earthquake shaking); landslides; co-seismic settlement (where
the ground surface is permanently lowered due to seismic shaking); and bearing capacity failures
(when the foundation soil cannot support the structure it is intended to support).
According to the 2012 DOGAMI report, liquefaction and lateral spreading hazards are of primary
concern to the fossil fuel terminals. The CEI Hub is adjacent to the Willamette River and has
extensive deposits of highly liquefiable soils. These soils (made of sands, silts, gravels and clays)
have been naturally deposited by river activity as well as been created from man-made activities,
such as hydraulically placed material from river dredging or debris placed as landfill.
The FFTs have significant seismic risks because most of the tanks have been constructed without
any or only limited seismic design criteria on soils with high levels of liquefaction susceptibility, as
documented by the Portland Bureau of Emergency Management's 2016 Critical Energy
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Infrastructure Hub Study and the 2012 DOGAMI Earthquake Risk Study for Oregon's Critical Energy
Infrastructure Hub report. The City Council interprets this goal to mean that the first step in making
Portland more resilient is to stop increasing the risk. Continuing to allow the increase in FFTs in a
high risk area increases the risk to the surrounding industrial district and the Willamette River. The
FFTZ amendments limit future risk by limiting the size of new fossil fuel terminals and prohibiting
the expansion of storage capacity at existing fossil fuel terminals, with limited exceptions for
aviation and renewable fuels. Further, by designating existing FFTs as a limited use, as opposed to a
prohibited nonconforming use, allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in facilities
that reduce the risks and improve their ability to withstand a major earthquake, which ultimately
can make Portland more resilient.
Goal 7.D: Environmental equity. All Portlanders have access to clean air and water, can experience
nature in their daily lives, and benefit from development designed to lessen the impacts of natural
hazards and environmental contamination.
231. Finding: The City Council interprets this goal to mean that the first step in lessening the impacts of
natural hazards and environmental contamination is to stop increasing the risk. Continuing to allow
the increase in FFTs in a high risk area increases the risk to the surrounding neighborhoods and the
Willamette River. The FFTZ amendments limit future risk by limiting the size of new fossil fuel
terminals and prohibiting the expansion of storage capacity at existing fossil fuel terminals, with
limited exceptions for aviation and renewable fuels. Further, by designating existing FFTs as a
limited use, as opposed to a prohibited nonconforming use, allows the terminals to continue to
operate and invest in facilities that reduce the risks and improve their ability to withstand a major
earthquake.
Goal 7.E: Community stewardship. Portlanders actively participate in efforts to maintain and improve
the environment, including watershed health.
232. Finding:  The City Council interprets this goal to mean that the City should have programs focused
on community involvement in improving the environment. The FFTZ amendments change the
Zoning Code and do not include other changes to stewardship programs. This goal does not apply.
Improving environmental quality and resilience
Policy 7.1. Environmental quality. Protect or support efforts to protect air, water, and soil quality, and
associated benefits to public and ecological health and safety, through plans and investments.
Policy 7.2. Environmental equity. Prevent or reduce adverse environment-related disparities affecting
under-served and under-represented communities through plans and investments. This includes
addressing disparities relating to air and water quality, natural hazards, contamination, climate
change, and access to nature.
233. Finding: The Council interprets policies 7.1 and 7.2 in tandem.  The City Council finds that the
policies seek to defend and protect environmental quality and equity.  Further, the City Council
finds that environmental equity is achieved when disparities are prevented or reduced.  The City
Council finds that that the first step in lessening the impacts of natural hazards and environmental
contamination is to stop increasing the risk. Continuing to allow the increase in FFTs in a high risk
area increases the risk to the surrounding neighborhoods and the Willamette River. The FFTZ
amendments limit future risk by limiting the size of new fossil fuel terminals and prohibiting the
expansion of storage capacity at existing fossil fuel terminals, with limited exceptions for aviation
and renewable fuels. Further, by designating existing FFTs as a limited use, as opposed to a
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

prohibited nonconforming use, allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in facilities
that reduce the risks and improve their ability to withstand a major earthquake.
Policy 7.3. Ecosystem services. Consider the benefits provided by healthy ecosystems that contribute
to the livability and economic health of the city.
234. Finding: The FFTZ amendments foster a healthy environment and sustain the ecosystem services of
Portland’s air, water and land by reducing the risk associated with a major earthquake. The first
step in making the current situation better is to ensure that the situation does not get worse by
continuing to allow the unlimited increase in fossil fuel terminal storage tank capacity in a high risk
area. The FFTZ amendments are a regulatory approach that will limit the size of new fossil fuel
terminals and prohibit the expansion of storage capacity at existing fossil fuel terminals, with
limited exceptions for aviation and renewable fuels, which will be an improvement compared to
the current regulations that allow for unlimited growth in fossil fuel terminals. Further, by
designating existing FFTs as a limited use allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in
facilities that reduce the risks and improve their ability to withstand a major earthquake, which can
minimize environmental impacts in the event of a major earthquake. No changes to the
environmental or greenway overlay zones are proposed as part of this project, therefore the
natural resource values and functions will be sustained.
Policy 7.4. Climate change. Update and implement strategies to reduce carbon emissions and impacts
and increase resilience through plans and investments and public education.
7.4.a. Carbon sequestration. Enhance the capacity of Portland’s urban forest, soils, wetlands, and
other water bodies to serve as carbon reserves.
7.4.b. Climate adaptation and resilience. Enhance the ability of rivers, streams, wetlands,
floodplains, urban forest, habitats, and wildlife to limit and adapt to climate-exacerbated flooding,
landslides, wildfire, and urban heat island effects.
235. Finding:  The FFTZ amendments help reduce carbon emissions by providing for a transition to a
reliable, low-carbon energy infrastructure by designating existing FFTs as a limited use, which
allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in facilities to increase safety and reliability.
In addition, the definition of fossil fuels explicitly does not include ethanol, biodiesel/renewable
diesel other fuel additives that will allows FTTs to add storage capacity to provide reliable low-
carbon fuels to help meet the carbon emissions reduction goals.
The 2035 Comprehensive Plan defines “resilience” as the capability to anticipate, prepare for,
respond to, and recover from significant multi-hazard threats with minimum damage to social well-
being, the economy, and the environment. Portland’s FFTs are within a disaster-prone area that is
at risk for a catastrophic Cascadia earthquake disaster. The FFTs have significant seismic risks
because most of the tanks have been constructed without any or only limited seismic design
criteria on soils with high levels of liquefaction susceptibility. The City Council finds that the first
step in making Portland more resilient is to stop increasing the risk. Continuing to allow the
increase in FFTs in a high risk area increases the risk to the surrounding to the Willamette River and
associated floodplains. The FFTZ amendments limit future risk by limiting the size of new fossil fuel
terminals and prohibiting the expansion of storage capacity at existing fossil fuel terminals, with
limited exceptions for aviation and renewable fuels. Further, by designating existing FFTs as a
limited use, as opposed to a prohibited nonconforming use, allows the terminals to continue to
operate and invest in facilities that reduce the risks and improve their ability to withstand a major
earthquake, which ultimately can make Portland more resilient.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy 7.5. Air quality. Improve, or support efforts to improve, air quality through plans and
investments, including reducing exposure to air toxics, criteria pollutants, and urban heat island
effects. Consider the impacts of air quality on the health of all Portlanders.
Policy 7.6. Hydrology. Through plans and investments, improve or support efforts to improve
watershed hydrology to achieve more natural flow and enhance conveyance and storage capacity in
rivers, streams, floodplains, wetlands, and aquifers. Minimize impacts from development and
associated impervious surfaces, especially in areas with poorly-infiltrating soils and limited public
stormwater discharge points, and encourage restoration of degraded hydrologic functions.
Policy 7.7. Water quality. Improve, or support efforts to improve, water quality in rivers, streams,
floodplains, groundwater, and wetlands through land use plans and investments, to address water
quality issues including toxics, bacteria, temperature, metals, and sediment pollution. Consider the
impacts of water quality on the health of all Portlanders.
Policy 7.8. Biodiversity. Strive to achieve and maintain self-sustaining populations of native species,
including native plants, native resident and migratory fish and wildlife species, at-risk species, and
beneficial insects (such as pollinators) through plans and investments.
Policy 7.9. Habitat and biological communities. Ensure that plans and investments are consistent with
and advance efforts to improve, or support efforts to improve fish and wildlife habitat and biological
communities. Use plans and investments to enhance the diversity, quantity, and quality of habitats
habitat corridors, and especially habitats that:
• Are rare or declining.
• Support at-risk plant and animal species and communities.
• Support recovery of species under the Endangered Species Act, and prevent new listings.
• Provide culturally important food sources, including those associated with Native American
fishing rights.
Policy 7.10. Habitat connectivity. Improve or support efforts to improve terrestrial and aquatic
habitat connectivity for fish and wildlife by using plans and investments, to:
• Prevent and repair habitat fragmentation.
• Improve habitat quality.
• Weave habitat into sites as new development occurs.
• Enhance or create habitat corridors that allow fish and wildlife to safely access and move
through and between habitat areas.
• Promote restoration and protection of floodplains.
Policy 7.11. Urban forest. Improve, or support efforts to improve the quantity, quality, and equitable
distribution of Portland’s urban forest through plans and investments.
7.11.a. Tree preservation. Require or encourage preservation of large healthy trees, native trees
and vegetation, tree groves, and forested areas.
7.11.b. Urban forest diversity. Coordinate plans and investments with efforts to improve tree
species diversity and age diversity.
7.11.c. Tree canopy. Support progress toward meeting City tree canopy targets.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

7.11.d. Tree planting. Invest in tree planting and maintenance, especially in low-canopy areas,
neighborhoods with under-served or under-represented communities, and within and near urban
habitat corridors.
7.11.e. Vegetation in natural resource areas. Require native trees and vegetation in significant
natural resource areas.
7.11.f. Resilient urban forest. Encourage planting of Pacific Northwest hardy and climate change
resilient native trees and vegetation generally, and especially in urban habitat corridors.
7.11.g. Trees in land use planning. Identify priority areas for tree preservation and planting in land
use plans.
7.11.h. Managing wildfire risk. Address wildfire hazard risks and management priorities through
plans and investments.
Policy 7.12. Invasive species. Prevent the spread of invasive plants, and support efforts to reduce the
impacts of invasive plants, animals, and insects, through plans, investments, and education.
Policy 7.13. Soils. Coordinate plans and investments with programs that address human-induced soil
loss, erosion, contamination, or other impairments to soil quality and function.
236. Finding: The City Council interprets policies 7.5 through 7.13 as providing guidance to foster a
healthy environment and sustain the ecosystem services of Portland’s air, water and land
resources.  The FFTZ amendments support these policies by reducing the risk associated with a
major earthquake. The first step in making the current situation better is to ensure that the
situation does not get worse by continuing to allow the unlimited increase in fossil fuel terminal
storage tank capacity in a high risk area. The FFTZ amendments are a regulatory approach that will
limit the size of new fossil fuel terminals and prohibit the expansion of storage capacity at existing
fossil fuel terminals, with limited exceptions for aviation and renewable fuels, which will be an
improvement compared to the current regulations that allow for unlimited growth in fossil fuel
terminals. Further, by designating existing FFTs as a limited use allows the terminals to continue to
operate and invest in facilities that reduce the risks and improve their ability to withstand a major
earthquake, which can minimize environmental impacts in the event of a major earthquake. No
changes to the environmental or greenway overlay zones are proposed as part of this project,
therefore the natural resource values and functions will be sustained.
Policy 7.14. Natural hazards. Prevent development-related degradation of natural systems and
associated increases in landslide, wildfire, flooding, and earthquake risks.
237. Finding:  The 2035 Comprehensive Plan defines “prevent” as proactively avoid or hinder adverse
impacts or outcomes. Development-related degradation means development that has adverse
impacts on natural systems. For example, development in a floodplain that increases impervious
surface can result in increased run-off that increases flooding.  Further, Council finds that the policy
seeks to avoid increasing risks associated with natural disasters, including earthquakes.
According to the 2012 DOGAMI Earthquake Risk Study for Oregon's Critical Energy Infrastructure
Hub report, a magnitude 8 or 9 Cascadia Subduction Zone earthquake would impact the CEI Hub
with: ground shaking; liquefaction (soil behavior phenomenon in which a saturated sand softens
and loses strength during strong earthquake ground shaking); lateral spreading (where surficial soil
permanently moves laterally due to earthquake shaking); landslides; co-seismic settlement (where
the ground surface is permanently lowered due to seismic shaking); and bearing capacity failures
(when the foundation soil cannot support the structure it is intended to support).
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

According to the 2012 DOGAMI report, liquefaction and lateral spreading hazards are of primary
concern to the fossil fuel terminals. As described in the 2012 Oregon State Energy Assurance Plan,
this Critical Energy Infrastructure Hub (CEI Hub), where the existing FFTs are located, sits on top of
very poor soils that are highly susceptible to earthquake-induced permanent ground deformation.
The CEI Hub is adjacent to the Willamette River and has extensive deposits of highly liquefiable
soils. These soils (made of sands, silts, gravels and clays) have been naturally deposited by river
activity as well as been created from man-made activities, such as hydraulically placed material
from river dredging or debris placed as landfill.
Most of Portland’s employment and industrial zones are in areas with high to very high levels of
liquefaction susceptibility, as documented by the 2018 DOGAMI Earthquake Regional Impact
Analysis. Fossil fuel infrastructure poses considerable risks in the event of a major earthquake. The
first step in making the current situation better is to ensure that the situation does not get worse.
Continuing to allow the unlimited increase in fossil fuel terminal storage tank capacity in a high risk
area increases the risk to the Willamette River. The City Council interprets this policy to mean
development regulations should not increase the risk from natural hazards. The current regulations
that allow unlimited expansion of storage tank capacity increase the risk from natural hazards. The
FFTZ amendments proactively limit future earthquake risk by limiting the size of new fossil fuel
terminals and prohibiting the expansion of storage capacity at existing fossil fuel terminals, with
limited exceptions for aviation and renewable fuels. Further, by designating existing FFTs as a
limited use allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in facilities that reduce the risks
and improve their ability to withstand a major earthquake. Further, the use limitations provide
flexibility to FFTs to replace and reconfigure existing storage tank capacity to increase safety.
Policy 7.15. Brownfield remediation. Improve environmental quality and watershed health by
promoting and facilitating brownfield remediation and redevelopment that incorporates ecological
site design and resource enhancement.
238. Finding:  The City Council interprets this policy to mean that the City will create programs to
support brownfield cleanup. The FFTZ amendments are Zoning Code changes that are not directly
related to the cleanup of brownfields. However, the changes designate existing FFTs as a limited
use, which allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in facilities, including brownfield
remediation.
Policy 7.16. Adaptive management. Evaluate trends in watershed and environmental health using
current monitoring data and information to guide and support improvements in the effectiveness of
City plans and investments.
Policy 7.17. Restoration partnerships. Coordinate plans and investments with other jurisdictions, air
and water quality regulators, watershed councils, soil and water conservation districts, Sovereign
nations, and community organizations and groups including under-served and under-represented
communities, to optimize the benefits, distribution, and cost-effectiveness of watershed restoration
and enhancement efforts.
Policy 7.18. Community stewardship. Encourage voluntary cooperation between property owners,
community organizations, and public agencies to restore or re-create habitat on their property,
including removing invasive plants and planting native species.
239. Finding:  The City Council interprets policies 7.16. through 7.18 to mean that the City will create
programs to support restoration and community stewardship. The FFTZ amendments are Zoning
Code changes that are not directly related to watershed restoration. These policies do not apply.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Planning for natural resource protection
Policy 7.19. Natural resource protection. Protect the quantity, quality, and function of significant
natural resources identified in the City’s natural resource inventory, including:
• Rivers, streams, sloughs, and drainageways.
• Floodplains.
• Riparian corridors.
• Wetlands.
• Groundwater.
• Native and other beneficial vegetation species and communities.
• Aquatic and terrestrial habitats, including special habitats or habitats of concern, large anchor
habitats, habitat complexes and corridors, rare and declining habitats such as wetlands, native
oak, bottomland hardwood forest, grassland habitat, shallow water habitat, and habitats that
support special-status or at-risk plant and wildlife species.
• Other resources identified in natural resource inventories.
Policy 7.20. Natural resource inventory. Maintain an up-to-date inventory by identifying the location
and evaluating the relative quantity and quality of natural resources.
Policy 7.21. Environmental plans and regulations. Maintain up-to-date environmental protection
plans and regulations that specify the significant natural resources to be protected and the types of
protections to be applied, based on the best data and science available and on an evaluation of
cumulative environmental, social, and economic impacts and tradeoffs. See Figure 7-2 — Adopted
Environmental Plans.
7.21.a. Improve the effectiveness of environmental protection plans and regulations to protect
and encourage enhancement of ecological functions and ecosystem services.
Policy 7.22. Land acquisition priorities and coordination. Maintain a land acquisition program as a
tool to protect and support natural resources and their functions. Coordinate land acquisition with the
programs of City bureaus and other agencies and organizations.
240. Finding:  The City Council interprets policies 7.19 through 7.22 as providing guidance to the City as
to how to protect significant natural resources. The 2035 Comprehensive Plan background
documents included an updated Natural Resources Inventory (NRI), which was adopted (Ordinance
185657) and acknowledged by LCDC on June 13, 2014. The NRI identified the location, quantity,
and quality of all significant natural resources as required by the inventory provisions of Statewide
Planning Goal 5. From the set of all significant resources, high and medium quality resources,
ranked primarily from riparian corridor and wildlife habitat considerations, were identified to
comply with the inventory requirements of Title 13 of Metro’s Urban Growth Management
Functional Plan.
Environmental zones protect resources and functional values that have been identified by the City
as providing benefits to the public.  The FFTZ amendments are a regulatory approach that will limit
the size of new fossil fuel terminals and prohibit the expansion of storage capacity at existing fossil
fuel terminals, with limited exceptions for aviation and renewable fuels, which will be an
improvement compared to the current regulations that allow for unlimited growth in fossil fuel
terminals. Further, by designating existing FFTs as a limited use allows the terminals to continue to
operate and invest in facilities that reduce the risks and improve their ability to withstand a major
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

earthquake, which can minimize environmental impacts in the event of a major earthquake. No
changes to the environmental or greenway overlay zones are proposed as part of this project,
therefore the natural resource values and functions will continue to be protected.
Protecting natural resources in development situations
Policy 7.23. Impact evaluation. Evaluate the potential adverse impacts of proposed development on
significant natural resources, their functions, and the ecosystem services they provide to inform and
guide development design and mitigation consistent with policies 7.24-7.26. and other relevant
Comprehensive Plan policies.
Policy 7.24. Regulatory hierarchy: avoid, minimize, mitigate. Maintain regulations requiring that the
potential adverse impacts of new development on significant natural resources and their functions
first be avoided where practicable, then minimized, then lastly, mitigated.
Policy 7.25. Mitigation effectiveness. Require that mitigation approaches compensate fully for
adverse impacts on locally and regionally significant natural resources and functions. Require
mitigation to be located as close to the impact as possible. Mitigation must also take place within the
same watershed or portion of the watershed that is within the Portland Urban Services Boundary,
unless mitigating outside of these areas will provide a greater local ecological benefit. Mitigation will
be subject to the following preference hierarchy:
• On the site of the resource subject to impact with the same kind of resource; if that is not
possible, then
• Off-site with the same kind of resource; if that is not possible, then
• On-site with a different kind of resource; if that is not possible, then
• Off-site with a different kind of resource.
Policy 7.26. Improving environmental conditions through development. Encourage ecological site
design, site enhancement, or other tools to improve ecological functions and ecosystem services in
conjunction with new development and alterations to existing development.
241. The City Council interprets policies 7.23 through 7.26 as providing guidance to the City as to how to
protect significant natural resources. The City’s environmental and greenway overlay zones are the
regulations that control development in order to protect the resources and functional values while
allowing environmentally sensitive urban development. No changes to the environmental or
greenway overlay zones are proposed as part of this project, therefore the natural resource values
and functions will continue to be protected.
Aggregate resources
Policy 7.27. Aggregate resource protection. Protect aggregate resource sites for current and future
use where there are no major conflicts with urban needs, or where these conflicts may be resolved.
Policy 7.28. Aggregate resource development. When aggregate resources are developed, ensure that
development minimizes adverse environmental impacts and impacts on adjacent land uses.
Policy 7.29. Mining site reclamation. Ensure that the reclamation of mining sites protects public
health and safety, protects fish and wildlife (including at-risk species), enhances or restores habitat
(including rare and declining habitat types), restores adequate watershed conditions and functions on
the site, and is compatible with the surrounding land uses and conditions of nearby land.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

242. Finding:  Policies 7.27 through 7.29 provide guidance on aggregate resources. The FFTZ
amendments are Zoning Code changes that affect one allowed use in the employment and
industrial zones and are not directly related to aggregate. These policies do not apply.
Watershed-specific policies
The policies above guide planning, actions, and investments citywide. The following policies
are intended to augment the citywide Watershed Health and Environment policies by
providing additional guidance relating and responding to the characteristics within each of
Portland’s distinctive watersheds. They address watershed-specific habitat types, hydrology,
water quality issues, and stormwater management challenges. Together, the citywide and
watershed-specific policies support the close coordination of watershed health and land use
programs, guiding land use planning-related activities and future infrastructure investments.
While these watersheds are not entirely within Portland’s urban services boundary, Portland’s
actions can have significant benefits for the watershed as a whole.
Columbia River Watershed
Policy 7.30. In-water habitat. Enhance in-water habitat for native fish and wildlife, particularly in the
Oregon Slough and near-shore environments along the Columbia River.
Policy 7.31. Sensitive habitats. Enhance grassland, beach, riverbanks, wetlands, bottomland forests,
shallow water habitats, and other key habitats for wildlife traveling along the Columbia River
migratory corridor, while continuing to manage the levees and floodplain for flood control.
Policy 7.32. River-dependent and river-related uses. Maintain plans and regulations that recognize
the needs of river-dependent and river-related uses while also supporting ecologically-sensitive site
design and practices.
243. Finding:  None of the existing FFTs have frontage on the Columbia River. The Columbia River plays a
major role in the habitat corridors that weave nature into Portland, with designated natural
resources that are protected by the Environmental Overlay Zone, which is not amended by this
ordinance. In considering the natural hazard risks that the FFTs pose to the ecosystem functions on
the river, as identified by the Portland Bureau of Emergency Management's Critical Energy
Infrastructure Hub Study (2016), the City Council finds that continuing to allow FFTs in a high risk
area does not enhance the current or future natural resource functions of the Columbia River.
These regulations apply to only one type of allowed that makes up a minority part of the uses found
in Portland’s industrial districts. The other industrial uses continue to operate under current
regulations, including other river-dependent and river-related uses. Therefore, this ordinance
maintains the needs of river-dependent and river-related uses, except for FFTs, while supporting
ecologically-sensitive site design.
Willamette River Watershed
Policy 7.33. Fish habitat. Provide adequate intervals of ecologically-functional shallow-water habitat
for native fish along the entire length of the Willamette River within the city, and at the confluences of
its tributaries.
Policy 7.34. Stream connectivity. Improve stream connectivity between the Willamette River and its
tributaries.
Policy 7.35. River bank conditions. Preserve existing river bank habitat and encourage the
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

rehabilitation of river bank sections that have been significantly altered due to development with
more fish and wildlife friendly riverbank conditions.
Policy 7.37. Contaminated sites. Promote and support programs that facilitate the cleanup, reuse,
and restoration of the Portland Harbor Superfund site and other contaminated upland sites.
Policy 7.38. Sensitive habitats. Protect and enhance grasslands, beaches, floodplains, wetlands,
remnant native oak, bottomland hardwood forest, and other key habitats for native wildlife including
shorebirds, waterfowl, and species that migrate along the Pacific Flyway and the Willamette River
corridor.
Policy 7.39. Riparian corridors. Increase the width and quality of vegetated Riparian buffers along the
Willamette River.
Policy 7.40. Connected upland and river habitats. Enhance habitat quality and connectivity between
the Willamette riverfront, the Willamette’s floodplain, and upland natural resource areas.
Policy 7.41. River-dependent and river-related uses. Develop and maintain plans and regulations that
recognize the needs of river-dependent and river-related uses, while also supporting ecologically-
sensitive site design and practices.
244. Finding:  Policies 7.33 through 7.41 provide direction regarding the environment and watershed
health in the Willamette River Watershed. The eleven existing FFTs have frontage on the
Willamette River. The Willamette River plays a major role in the habitat corridors that weave nature
into Portland, with designated natural resources that are protected by the Greenway Overlay Zone,
which is not amended by this ordinance. In considering the natural hazard risks that the FFTs pose
to the ecosystem functions on the river, as identified by the Portland Bureau of Emergency
Management's Critical Energy Infrastructure Hub Study (2016), the City Council finds that
continuing to allow FFTs in a high risk area does not enhance the current or future natural resource
functions of the Willamette River. This ordinance balances environmental and watershed health by
narrowly crafting the regulations to apply to only one type of allowed that makes up a minority part
of the uses found in Portland’s industrial districts. The other industrial uses continue to operate
under current regulations, including other river-dependent and river-related uses.
Columbia Slough Watershed
Policy 7.43. Fish passage. Restore in-stream habitat and improve fish passage within the Columbia
Slough, including for salmonids in the lower slough.
Policy 7.44. Flow constriction removal. Reduce constriction, such as culverts, in the slough channels,
to improve the flow of water and water quality.
Policy 7.45. Riparian corridors. Increase the width, quality, and native plant diversity of vegetated
riparian buffers along Columbia Slough channels and other drainageways within the watershed, while
also managing the slough for
flood control.
Policy 7.46. Sensitive habitats. Enhance grasslands and wetland habitats in the Columbia Slough, such
as those found in the Smith and Bybee Lakes and at the St. Johns Landfill site, to provide habitat for
sensitive species, and for wildlife traveling along the Columbia and Willamette river migratory
corridors.
Policy 7.47. Connected rivers habitats. Enhance upland habitat connections to the Willamette and
Columbia rivers.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy 7.48. Contaminated sites. Ensure that plans and investments are consistent with and advance
programs that facilitate the cleanup, reuse, and restoration of contaminated sites that are adjacent, or
that discharge stormwater, to the Columbia Slough.
Policy 7.49. Portland International Airport. Protect, restore, and enhance natural resources and
functions in the Portland International Airport plan district, as identified in Portland International
Airport/Middle Columbia Slough Natural Resources Inventory. Accomplish this through regulations,
voluntary strategies, and the implementation of special development standards.
245. Finding:  Policies 7.43 through 7.49 provide direction regarding the environment and watershed
health in the Columbia Slough Watershed. There are no existing FFTs in the Columbia Slough
watershed. The Columbia Slough plays a major role in the habitat corridors that weave nature into
Portland, with designated natural resources that are protected by the Environmental Overlay Zone,
which is not amended by this ordinance. This ordinance helps to advance these policies by
prohibiting new FFTs in these watersheds. These regulations apply to only one type of allowed uses
that makes up a minority part of the uses found in Portland’s industrial districts. The other
industrial uses continue to operate under current regulations.
Fanno and Tryon Creek Watersheds
Policy 7.50 Stream connectivity. Encourage the daylighting of piped portions of Tryon and Fanno
creeks and their tributaries.
Policy 7.51 Riparian and habitat corridors. Protect and enhance riparian habitat quality and
connectivity along Tryon and Fanno creeks and their tributaries. Enhance connections
between riparian areas, parks, anchor habitats, and areas with significant tree canopy.
Enhance in-stream and upland habitat connections between Tryon Creek State Natural
Area and the Willamette River.
Policy 7.52 Reduced hazard risks. Reduce the risks of landslides and streambank erosion by
protecting trees and vegetation that absorb stormwater, especially in areas with steep
slopes or limited access to stormwater infrastructure.
246. Finding:  Policies 7.50 through 7.52 provide direction regarding habitat and river-related uses in the
Fanno and Tryon Creek Watersheds. There are no existing FFTs in the Fanno and Tryon Creek
watersheds, which play a major role in the habitat corridors that weave nature into Portland, with
designated natural resources that are protected by the Environmental Overlay Zone, which is not
amended by this ordinance. This ordinance helps to advance these policies by prohibiting new FFTs
in these watersheds.
Johnson Creek Watershed
Policy 7.53 In-stream and riparian habitat. Enhance in-stream and riparian habitat and improve fish
passage for salmonids along Johnson Creek and its tributaries.
Policy 7.54 Floodplain restoration. Enhance Johnson Creek floodplain functions to increase flood-
storage capacity, improve water quality, and enhance fish and wildlife habitat.
Policy 7.55 Connected floodplains, springs, and wetlands. Enhance hydrologic and habitat
connectivity between the Johnson Creek floodplain and its springs and wetlands.
Policy 7.56 Reduced natural hazards. Reduce the risks of landslides, streambank erosion and
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

downstream flooding by protecting seeps, springs, trees, vegetation, and soils that
absorb stormwater in the East Buttes.
Policy 7.57 Greenspace network. Enhance the network of parks, trails, and natural areas near the
Springwater Corridor Trail and the East Buttes to enhance habitat connectivity and
nature-based recreation in East Portland.
247. Finding:  Policies 7.53 through 7.57 provide direction regarding the environment and watershed
health in the Johnson Creek Watershed. There are no existing FFTs in the Fanno and Tryon Creek
watersheds, which play a major role in the habitat corridors that weave nature into Portland, with
designated natural resources that are protected by the Environmental Overlay Zone, which is not
amended by this ordinance. These regulations apply to only one type of allowed that makes up a
minority part of the uses found in Portland’s industrial districts. The other industrial uses continue
to operate under current regulations, including other river-dependent and river-related uses. This
ordinance helps to advance these policies by prohibiting new FFTs in this watershed.
Chapter 8: Public Facilities and Services
Goal 8.A: Quality public facilities and services. High-quality public facilities and services provide
Portlanders with optimal levels of service throughout the city, based on system needs and community
goals, and in compliance with regulatory mandates.
Goal 8.B: Multiple benefits. Public facility and service investments improve equitable service
provision, support economic prosperity, and enhance human and environmental health.
Goal 8.C: Reliability and resiliency. Public facilities and services are reliable, able to withstand or
recover from catastrophic natural and manmade events, and are adaptable and resilient in the face of
long-term changes in the climate, economy, and technology.
Goal 8.D: Public rights-of-way. Public rights-of-way enhance the public realm and provide a multi-
purpose, connected, safe, and healthy physical space for movement and travel, public and private
utilities, and other appropriate public functions and uses.
Goal 8.E: Sanitary and stormwater systems. Wastewater and stormwater are managed, conveyed,
and/or treated to protect public health, safety, and the environment, and to meet the needs of the
community on an equitable, efficient, and sustainable basis.
Goal 8.F: Flood management. Flood management systems and facilities support watershed health and
manage flooding to reduce adverse impacts on Portlanders’ health, safety, and property.
Goal 8.G: Water. Reliable and adequate water supply and delivery systems provide sufficient
quantities of high-quality water at adequate pressures to meet the needs of the community on an
equitable, efficient, and sustainable basis.
Goal 8.H: Parks, natural areas, and recreation. All Portlanders have safe, convenient, and equitable
access to high-quality parks, natural areas, trails, and recreational opportunities in their daily lives,
which contribute to their health and well-being. The City manages its natural areas and urban forest to
protect unique urban habitats and offer Portlanders an opportunity to connect with nature.
Goal 8.I: Public safety and emergency response. Portland is a safe, resilient, and peaceful community
where public safety, emergency response, and emergency management facilities and services are
coordinated and able to effectively and efficiently meet community needs.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Goal 8.J: Solid waste management. Residents and businesses have access to waste management
services and are encouraged to be thoughtful consumers to minimize upstream impacts and avoid
generating waste destined for the landfill. Solid waste — including food, yard debris, recyclables,
electronics, and construction and demolition debris — is managed, recycled, and composted to ensure
the highest and best use of materials.
Goal 8.K: School facilities. Public schools are honored places of learning as well as multifunctional
neighborhood anchors serving Portlanders of all ages, abilities, and cultures.
Goal 8.L: Technology and communications. All Portland residences, businesses, and institutions have
access to universal, affordable, and reliable state-of-the-art communication and technology services.
Goal 8.M: Energy infrastructure and services. Residents, businesses, and institutions are served by
reliable energy infrastructure that provides efficient, low-carbon, affordable energy through decision-
making based on integrated resource planning.
248. Finding:  The City Council interprets the Chapter 8 goals to provide general guidance to public
agencies in how to provide basic services to Portlanders. The adopted 2035 Comprehensive Plan
includes the Citywide Systems Plan (CSP), which was adopted (Ordinance 185657) and
acknowledged by LCDC on April 25, 2017. The CSP includes the Public Facilities Plan with
information on current and future transportation, water, sanitary sewer, and stormwater
infrastructure needs and projects, consistent with the requirements of Statewide Planning Goal 11.
The FFTZ amendments do not include comprehensive plan map amendments and do not amend
the CSP. These regulations apply to only one type of use that makes up a minority part of the uses
found in Portland’s industrial districts. The remaining industrial uses continue to be regulated under
the current development regulations and do not intensify the development capacity. Therefore,
these changes will not adversely impact the City’s public facilities or services. Therefore, the City
continues to plan for public infrastructure investments in the industrial districts where the FFTs are
located.
Goal 8.M (energy infrastructure) is the one goal that is applicable to this ordinance. Oregon
Administrative Rules (OAR 860-027-0400) define integrated resource plans (IRP) as investor-owned
energy utility’s written plan detailing its future long-term resource needs, its analysis of the
expected costs and associated risks of the alternatives to meet those needs, and its action plan to
select the best portfolio of resources to meet those needs. The NW Natural LNG Storage facility is
the only FFT in Portland that is part of an investor-owned utility. NW Natural’s 2018 IRP identifies
the replacement of mechanical process equipment used for the liquefaction, vaporization, or
storage of LNG, but not expansion of storage capacity. The FFTZ amendments only regulate fossil
fuel storage tank capacity, therefore these changes are consistent with the NW Natural IRP.
As documented in the 2012 DOGAMI report, the current CEI hub infrastructure is not reliable in the
event of a magnitude 8 or 9 Cascadia Subduction Zone earthquake. The FFTZ amendments will limit
the size of new fossil fuel terminals and prohibit the expansion of storage capacity at existing fossil
fuel terminals, with limited exceptions for aviation and renewable fuels, which will minimize the risk
from a future major earthquake compared to the current regulations that allow for unlimited
growth in FFTs. The FFTZ amendments help provide a reliable, low-carbon energy infrastructure by
designating existing FFTs as a limited use, which allows the terminals to continue to operate and
invest in facilities to increase safety and reliability. In addition, the definition of fossil fuels
(33.910.030) explicitly does not include ethanol, biodiesel/renewable diesel other fuel additives
that will allows FTTs to add storage capacity to provide reliable low-carbon fuels.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Service provision and urbanization
Policy 8.1. Urban services boundary. Maintain an Urban Services Boundary for the City of Portland
that is consistent with the regional urban growth policy, in cooperation with neighboring jurisdictions.
The Urban Services Boundary is shown on the Comprehensive Plan Map.
Policy 8.2. Rural, urbanizable, and urban public facility needs. Recognize the different public facility
needs in rural, urbanizable and urban land as defined by the Regional Urban Growth Boundary, the
City Urban Services Boundary, and the City Boundaries of Municipal Incorporation. See Figure 8-1 —
Urban, Urbanizable, and Rural Lands.
Policy 8.3. Urban service delivery. Provide the following public facilities and services at urban levels of
service to urban lands within the City’s boundaries of incorporation:
• Public rights-of-way, streets, and public trails
• Sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment
• Stormwater management and conveyance
• Flood management
• Protection of the waterways of the state
• Water supply
• Police, fire, and emergency response
• Parks, natural areas, and recreation
• Solid waste regulation
Policy 8.4. Supporting facilities and systems. Maintain supporting facilities and systems, including
public buildings, technology, fleet, and internal service infrastructure, to enable the provision of public
facilities and services.
Policy 8.5. Planning service delivery. Provide planning, zoning, building, and subdivision control
services within the boundaries of incorporation, and as otherwise provided by intergovernmental
agreement within the City’s Urban Services Boundary.
249. Finding: The City Council interprets policies 8.1 through 8.5 provide direction on the provision of
public facilities and services. The FFTZ amendments do not include new public facility or
infrastructure projects. These policies do not apply.
Service coordination
Policy 8.6. Interagency coordination. Maintain interagency coordination agreements with neighboring
jurisdictions and partner agencies that provide urban public facilities and services within the City of
Portland’s Urban Services Boundary to ensure effective and efficient service delivery. See Policy 8.3 for
the list of services included. Such jurisdictions and agencies include, but may not be limited to:
• Multnomah County for transportation facilities and public safety.
• State of Oregon for transportation and parks facilities and services.
• TriMet for public transit facilities and services.
• Port of Portland for air and marine facilities and services.
• Metro for regional parks and natural areas, and for solid waste, composting, and recycling
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

facilities and transfer stations.
• Gresham, Milwaukie, Clackamas County Service District #1, and Clean Water Services for
sanitary sewer conveyance and treatment.
• Multnomah County Drainage District No. 1, Peninsula Drainage District No 1, and Peninsula
Drainage District No. 2 for stormwater management and conveyance, and for flood mitigation,
protection, and control.
• Rockwood People’s Utility District; Sunrise Water Authority; and the Burlington, Tualatin
Valley, Valley View, West Slope, Palatine Hill, Alto Park, and Clackamas River Water Districts
for water distribution.
• Portland Public Schools and the David Douglas, Parkrose, Reynolds, Centennial, and Riverdale
school districts for public education, park, trail, and recreational facilities.
Policy 8.7. Outside contracts. Coordinate with jurisdictions and agencies outside of Portland where
the City provides services under agreement.
Policy 8.8. Public service coordination. Coordinate with the planning efforts of agencies providing
public education, public health services, community centers, urban forest management, library
services, justice services, energy, and technology and communications services.
Policy 8.9. Internal coordination. Coordinate planning and provision of public facilities and services,
including land acquisition, among City agencies, including internal service bureaus.
Policy 8.10. Co-location. Encourage co-location of public facilities and services across providers where
co-location improves service delivery efficiency and access for historically under-represented and
under-served communities.
250. Finding: The City Council interprets policies 8.6 through 8.10 provide direction on coordination with
neighboring jurisdictions and partner agencies that provide urban public facilities and services
within the City of Portland’s Urban Services Boundary. The FFTZ amendments do not include new
public facility or infrastructure projects or amendments to public service coordination agreements.
These policies do not apply.
Service extension
Policy 8.11. Annexation. Require annexation of unincorporated urbanizable areas within the City’s
Urban Services Boundary as a prerequisite to receive urban services.
Policy 8.12. Feasibility of service. Evaluate the physical feasibility and cost-effectiveness of extending
urban public services to candidate annexation areas to ensure sensible investment and to set
reasonable expectations.
Policy 8.13. Orderly service extension. Establish or improve urban public services in newly-annexed
areas to serve designated land uses at established levels of service, as funds are available and as
responsible engineering practice allows.
Policy 8.14. Coordination of service extension. Coordinate provision of urban public services to
newly-annexed areas so that provision of any given service does not stimulate development that
significantly hinders the City’s ability to provide other urban services at uniform levels.
Policy 8.15. Services to unincorporated urban pockets. Plan for future delivery of urban services to
urbanizable areas that are within the Urban Services Boundary but outside the city limits.
Policy 8.16. Orderly urbanization. Coordinate with counties, neighboring jurisdictions, and other
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

special districts to ensure consistent management of annexation requests, and to establish rational
and orderly process of urbanization that maximize efficient use of public funds.
Policy 8.17. Services outside the city limits. Prohibit City provision of new urban services, or
expansion of the capacity of existing services, in areas outside city limits, except in cases where the
City has agreements or contracts in place.
Policy 8.18. Service district expansion. Prohibit service district expansion or creation within the City’s
Urban Services Boundary without the City’s expressed consent.
Policy 8.19. Rural service delivery. Provide the public facilities and services identified in Policy 8.3 in
rural areas only at levels necessary to support designated rural residential land uses and protect public
health and safety. Prohibit sanitary sewer extensions into rural land and limit other urban services.
251. Finding: The City Council interprets policies 8.11 through 8.19 provide direction on extending public
services. The FFTZ amendments do not include new public facility or infrastructure projects or
service extensions. These policies do not apply.
Public investment
Policy 8.20. Regulatory compliance. Ensure public facilities and services remain in compliance with
state and federal regulations. Work toward cost-effective compliance with federal and state mandates
through intergovernmental coordination and problem solving.
Policy 8.21. System capacity. Establish, improve, and maintain public facilities and services at levels
appropriate to support land use patterns, densities, and anticipated residential and employment
growth, as physically feasible and as sufficient funds are available.
Policy 8.22. Equitable service. Provide public facilities and services to alleviate service deficiencies and
meet level-of-service standards for all Portlanders, including individuals, businesses, and property
owners.
8.22.a. In places that are not expected to grow significantly but have existing deficiencies, invest
to reduce disparity and improve livability.
8.22.b. In places that lack basic public facilities or services and also have significant growth
potential, invest to enhance neighborhoods, fill gaps, maintain affordability, and accommodate
growth.
8.22.c. In places that are not expected to grow significantly and already have access to complete
public facilities and services, invest primarily to maintain existing facilities and retain livability.

8.22.d. In places that already have access to complete public facilities and services, but also
have significant growth potential, invest to fill remaining gaps, maintain affordability, and
accommodate growth.
Policy 8.23. Asset management. Improve and maintain public facility systems using asset
management principles to optimize preventative maintenance, reduce unplanned reactive
maintenance, achieve scheduled service delivery, and protect the quality, reliability, and adequacy of
City services.
Policy 8.24. Risk management. Maintain and improve Portland’s public facilities to minimize or
eliminate economic, social, public health and safety, and environmental risks.
Policy 8.25. Critical infrastructure. Increase the resilience of high-risk and critical infrastructure
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

through monitoring, planning, maintenance, investment, adaptive technology, and continuity
planning.
Policy 8.26. Capital programming. Maintain long-term capital improvement programs that balance
acquisition and construction of new public facilities with maintenance and operations of existing
facilities.
252. Finding: The City Council interprets policies 8.20 through 8.26 provide direction on investment
priorities for public facilities. The FFTZ amendments do not include new public facility or
infrastructure projects. These policies do not apply.
Funding
Policy 8.27. Cost-effectiveness. Establish, improve, and maintain the public facilities necessary to
serve designated land uses in ways that cost-effectively provide desired levels of service, consider
facilities’ lifecycle costs, and maintain the City’s long-term financial sustainability.
Policy 8.28. Shared costs. Ensure the costs of constructing and providing public facilities and services
are equitably shared by those who benefit from the provision of those facilities and services.
Policy 8.29. System development. Require private or public entities whose prospective development
or redevelopment actions contribute to the need for public facility improvements, extensions, or
construction to bear a proportional share of the costs.
Policy 8.30. Partnerships. Maintain or establish public and private partnerships for the development,
management, or stewardship of public facilities necessary to serve designated land uses, as
appropriate.
253. Finding: The City Council interprets policies 8.27 through 8.30 provide direction on funding public
facilities and services within the City of Portland’s Urban Services Boundary. The FFTZ amendments
do not include new public facility or infrastructure projects. These policies do not apply.
Public benefits
Policy 8.31. Application of Guiding Principles. Plan and invest in public facilities in ways that promote
and balance the Guiding Principles established in The Vision and Guiding Principles of this
Comprehensive Plan.
Policy 8.32. Community benefit agreements. Encourage the use of negotiated community benefit
agreements for large public facility projects as appropriate to address environmental justice policies in
Chapter 2: Community Involvement.
Policy 8.33. Community knowledge and experience. Encourage public engagement processes and
strategies for larger public facility projects to include community members in identifying potential
impacts, mitigation measures and community benefits.
Policy 8.34. Resource efficiency. Reduce the energy and resource use, waste, and carbon emissions
from facilities necessary to serve designated land uses to meet adopted City goals and targets.
Policy 8.35. Natural systems. Protect, enhance, and restore natural systems and features for their
infrastructure service and other values.
Policy 8.36. Context-sensitive infrastructure. Design, improve, and maintain public rights-of-way and
facilities in ways that are compatible with, and that minimize negative impacts on, their physical,
environmental, and community context.
Policy 8.37. Site- and area-specific needs. Allow for site- and area-specific public facility standards,
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

requirements, tools, and policies as needed to address distinct topographical, geologic,
environmental, and other conditions.
Policy 8.38. Age-friendly public facilities. Promote public facility designs that make Portland more
age-friendly.
254. Finding: The City Council interprets policies 8.31 through 8.38 provide direction on the associated
public benefits that should be considered in conjunction with investment in public facilities and
services within the City of Portland’s Urban Services Boundary. The FFTZ amendments do not
include new public facility or infrastructure projects. These policies do not apply.
Public rights-of-way
Policy 8.39. Interconnected network. Establish a safe and connected rights-of-way system that
equitably provides infrastructure services throughout the city.
Policy 8.40. Transportation function. Improve and maintain the right-of-way to support multimodal
transportation mobility and access to goods and services as is consistent with the designated street
classification.
Policy 8.41. Utility function. Improve and maintain the right-of-way to support equitable distribution
of utilities, including water, sanitary sewer, stormwater management, energy, and communications, as
appropriate.
Policy 8.42. Stormwater management function. Improve rights-of-way to integrate green
infrastructure and other stormwater management facilities to meet desired levels-of-service and
economic, social, and environmental objectives.
Policy 8.43. Trees in rights-of-way. Integrate trees into public rights-of-way to support City canopy
goals, transportation functions, and economic, social, and environmental objectives.
Policy 8.44. Community uses. Allow community use of rights-of-way for purposes such as public
gathering space, events, or temporary festivals, if the community uses are integrated in ways that
balance and minimize conflict with the designated through movement and access roles of rights-of-
ways.
Policy 8.45. Pedestrian amenities. Encourage facilities that enhance pedestrian enjoyment, such as
transit shelters, garbage containers, benches, etc. in the right-of-way.
Policy 8.46. Commercial uses. Accommodate allowable commercial uses of the rights-of-way for
enhancing commercial vitality, if the commercial uses can be integrated in ways that balance and
minimize conflict with the other functions of the right-of-way.
Policy 8.47. Flexible design. Allow flexibility in right-of-way design and development standards to
appropriately reflect the pattern area and other relevant physical, community, and environmental
contexts and local needs.
8.47.a. Use a variety of transportation resources in developing and designing projects for all
City streets, such as the City of Portland’s Pedestrian Design Guide, Bicycle Master Plan-
Appendix A, NACTO Urban Bikeway Design Guide, NACTO Urban Street Design Guide, Portland
Parks and Recreation Trail Design Guidelines, Designing for Truck Movements and Other Large
Vehicles, and City of Portland Green Street Policy, Stormwater Management Manual, Design
Guide for Public Street Improvements, and Neighborhood Greenways. (TSP objective 8.1.e.).
Policy 8.48. Corridors and City Greenways. Ensure public facilities located along Civic Corridors,
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Neighborhood Corridors, and City Greenways support the multiple objectives established for these
corridors.
Policy 8.49. Coordination. Coordinate the planning, design, development, improvement, and
maintenance of public rights-of-way among appropriate public agencies, private providers, and
adjacent landowners.
8.49.a. Coordination efforts should include the public facilities necessary to support the uses
and functions of rights-of-way, as established in policies 8.40 to 8.46.
8.49.b. Coordinate transportation and stormwater system plans and investments, especially in
unimproved or substandard rights-of-way, to improve water quality, public safety, including for
pedestrians and bicyclists, and neighborhood livability.
Policy 8.50. Undergrounding. Encourage undergrounding of electrical and telecommunications
facilities within public rights-of-way, especially in centers and along Civic Corridors.
Policy 8.51. Right-of-way vacations. Maintain rights-of-way if there is an established existing or future
need for them, such as for transportation facilities or for other public functions established in policies
8.40 to 8.46.
Policy 8.52. Rail rights-of-way. Preserve existing and abandoned rail rights-of-way for future rail or
public trail uses.
255. Finding:  The City Council interprets policies 8.39 through 8.52 to apply to new public facilities or
infrastructure projects in the right-of-way.  The FFTZ amendments do not include new public facility
or infrastructure projects in the right-of-way. These policies do not apply.
Trails
Policy 8.53. Public trails. Establish, improve, and maintain a citywide system of public trails that
provide transportation and/or recreation options and are a component of larger network of facilities
for bicyclists, pedestrians, and recreational users.
Policy 8.54. Trail system connectivity. Plan, improve, and maintain the citywide trail system so that it
connects and improves access to Portland’s neighborhoods, commercial areas, employment centers,
schools, parks, natural areas, recreational facilities, regional destinations, the regional trail system,
and other key places that Portlanders access in their daily lives.
Policy 8.55. Trail coordination. Coordinate planning, design, improvement, and maintenance of the
trail system among City agencies, other public agencies, non-governmental partners, and adjacent
landowners.
Policy 8.56. Trail diversity. Allow a variety of trail types to reflect a trail’s transportation and
recreation roles, requirements, and physical context.
Policy 8.57. Public access requirements. Require public access and improvement of public trails along
the future public trail alignments shown in Figure 8-2 — Future Public Trail Alignments.
Policy 8.58. Trail and City Greenway coordination. Coordinate the planning and improvement of trails
as part of the City Greenways system.
Policy 8.59. Trail and Habitat Corridor coordination. Coordinate the planning and improvement of
trails with the establishment, enhancement, preservation, and access to habitat corridors.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy 8.60. Intertwine coordination. Coordinate with the Intertwine Alliance and its partners,
including local and regional parks providers, to integrate Portland’s trail and active transportation
network with the bi-state regional trail system.
256. Finding: The City Council interprets policies 8.53 through 8.60 to apply to designated trails. While
designated trail alignments are included in public rights of way adjacent industrial zones, the FFTZ
amendments do not amend the designated trail alignments. These policies do not apply.
Sanitary system
Policy 8.61. Sewer connections. Require all developments within the city limits to be connected to
sanitary sewers unless the public sanitary system is not physically or legally available per City Code and
state requirements; or the existing onsite septic system is functioning properly without failure or
complaints per City Code and state requirements; and the system has all necessary state and county
permits.
Policy 8.62. Combined sewer overflows. Provide adequate public facilities to limit combined sewer
overflows to frequencies established by regulatory permits.
Policy 8.63. Sanitary sewer overflows. Provide adequate public facilities to prevent sewage releases
to surface waters as consistent with regulatory permits.
Policy 8.64. Private sewage treatment systems. Adopt land use regulations that require any proposed
private sewage treatment system to demonstrate that all necessary state and county permits are
obtained.
Policy 8.65. Sewer extensions. Prioritize sewer system extensions to areas that are already developed
at urban densities and where health hazards exist.
Policy 8.66. Pollution prevention. Reduce the need for wastewater treatment capacity through land
use programs and public facility investments that manage pollution as close to its source as practical
and that reduce the amount of pollution entering the sanitary system.
Policy 8.67. Treatment. Provide adequate wastewater treatment facilities to ensure compliance with
effluent standards established in regulatory permits.
257. Finding:  The City Council interprets policies 8.61 through 8.67 to apply to the provision of sanitary
sewer facilities. The FFTZ amendments do not include comprehensive plan map amendments and
do not amend the CSP. These regulations apply to only one type of use that makes up a minority
part of the uses found in Portland’s industrial districts. The remaining industrial uses continue to be
regulated under the current development regulations and do not intensify the development
capacity. Therefore, these changes will not adversely impact the City’s sanitary sewer system.
Stormwater Systems
Policy 8.68. Stormwater facilities. Provide adequate stormwater facilities for conveyance, flow
control, and pollution reduction.
Policy 8.69. Stormwater as a resource. Manage stormwater as a resource for watershed health and
public use in ways that protect and restore the natural hydrology, water quality, and habitat of
Portland’s watersheds.
Policy 8.70 Natural systems. Protect and enhance the stormwater management capacity of natural
resources such as rivers, streams, creeks, drainageways, wetlands, and floodplains.
Policy 8.71. Green infrastructure. Promote the use of green infrastructure, such as natural areas, the
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

urban forest, and landscaped stormwater facilities, to manage stormwater.
Policy 8.72. Stormwater discharge. Avoid or minimize the impact of stormwater discharges on the
water and habitat quality of rivers and streams.
Policy 8.73. On-site stormwater management. Encourage on-site stormwater management, or
management as close to the source as practical, through land use decisions and public facility
investments.
Policy 8.74. Pollution prevention. Coordinate policies, programs, and investments with partners to
prevent pollutants from entering the stormwater system by managing point and non-point pollution
sources through public and private facilities, local regulations, and education.
Policy 8.75. Stormwater partnerships. Provide stormwater management through coordinated public
and private facilities, public-private partnerships, and community stewardship.
258. Finding:  The City Council interprets policies 8.68 through 8.75 to apply to the provision of
stormwater facilities. The FFTZ amendments do not include comprehensive plan map amendments
and do not amend the CSP. These regulations apply to only one type of use that makes up a
minority part of the uses found in Portland’s industrial districts. The remaining industrial uses
continue to be regulated under the current development regulations and do not intensify the
development capacity. Therefore, these changes will not adversely impact the City’s stormwater
systems.
Flood management
Policy 8.76. Flood management. Improve and maintain the functions of natural and managed
drainageways, wetlands, and floodplains to protect health, safety, and property, provide water
conveyance and storage, improve water quality, and maintain and enhance fish and wildlife habitat.
Policy 8.77. Floodplain management. Manage floodplains to protect and restore associated natural
resources and functions and to minimize the risks to life and property from flooding.
Policy 8.78. Flood management facilities. Establish, improve, and maintain flood management
facilities to serve designated land uses through planning, investment and regulatory requirements.
Policy 8.79. Drainage district coordination. Coordinate with drainage districts that provide
stormwater management, conveyance, and flood mitigation, protection, and control services within
the City’s Urban Services Boundary.
Policy 8.80. Levee coordination. Coordinate plans and investments with special districts and agencies
responsible for managing and maintaining certification of levees along the Columbia River.
259. The City Council interprets policies 8.76 through 8.80 to apply to the management of floodplains.
Six of the existing FFTs have frontage on the Willamette River, with portions of the sites in the
FEMA designated 100-year floodplain. For sites in flood prone areas, the FFTZ amendments do not
amend the environmental overlay maps, nor do they change City programs that regulate
development in the floodplain (i.e., Title 33.631 Sites in Flood Hazard Areas; Title 10 Erosion
Control, and the balanced cut and fill requirements of Title 24).
Water systems
Policy 8.81. Primary supply source. Protect the Bull Run watershed as the primary water supply
source for Portland.
Policy 8.82. Bull Run protection. Maintain a source-protection program and practices to safeguard the
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Bull Run watershed as a drinking water supply.
Policy 8.83. Secondary supply sources. Protect, improve, and maintain the Columbia South Shore
wellfield groundwater system, the Powell Valley wellfield groundwater system, and any other
alternative water sources designated as secondary water supplies.
Policy 8.84. Groundwater wellfield protection. Maintain a groundwater protection program and
practices to safeguard the Columbia South Shore wellfield and the Powell Valley wellfield as drinking
water supplies.
Policy 8.85. Water quality. Maintain compliance with state and federal drinking water quality
regulations.
Policy 8.86. Storage. Provide sufficient in-city water storage capacity to serve designated land uses,
meet demand fluctuations, maintain system pressure, and ensure supply reliability.
Policy 8.87. Fire protection. Provide adequate water facilities to serve the fire protection needs of all
Portlanders and businesses.
Policy 8.88. Water pressure. Provide adequate water facilities to maintain water pressure in order to
protect water quality and provide for the needs
of customers.
Policy 8.89. Water efficiency. Reduce the need for additional water facility capacity and maintain
compliance with state water resource regulations by encouraging efficient use of water by customers
within the city.
Policy 8.90. Service interruptions. Maintain and improve water facilities to limit interruptions in water
service to customers.
Policy 8.91. Outside user contracts. Coordinate long-term water supply planning and delivery with
outside-city water purveyors through long-term
wholesale contracts.
260. Finding:  The City Council interprets policies 8.81 through 8.91 to apply to the provision of water
service. The FFTZ amendments do not include comprehensive plan map amendments and do not
amend the CSP. These regulations apply to only one type of use that makes up a minority part of
the uses found in Portland’s industrial districts. The remaining industrial uses continue to be
regulated under the current development regulations and do not intensify the development
capacity. Therefore, these changes will not adversely impact the City’s water system.
Parks and recreation
Policy 8.92. Acquisition, development, and maintenance. Provide and maintain an adequate supply
and variety of parkland and recreational facilities to serve the city’s current and future population
based on identified level-of-service standards and community needs.
Policy 8.93. Service equity. Invest in acquisition and development of parks and recreation facilities in
areas where service-level deficiencies exist.
Policy 8.94. Capital programming. Maintain a long-range park capital improvement program, with
criteria that considers acquisition, development, and operations; provides opportunities for public
input; and emphasizes creative and flexible financing strategies.
Policy 8.95. Park planning. Improve parks, recreational facilities, natural areas, and the urban forest in
accordance with current master plans, management plans, or adopted strategies that reflect user
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

group needs, development priorities, development and maintenance costs, program opportunities,
financing strategies, and community input.
Policy 8.96. Recreational trails. Establish, improve, and maintain a complete and connected system of
public recreational trails, consistent with Portland Parks & Recreation’s trail strategy.
Policy 8.97. Natural resources. Preserve, enhance, and manage City-owned natural areas and
resources to protect and improve their ecological health, in accordance with both the natural area
acquisition and restoration strategies, and to provide compatible public access.
Policy 8.98. Urban forest management. Manage urban trees as green infrastructure with associated
ecological, community, and economic functions, through planning, planting, and maintenance
activities, education, and regulation.
Policy 8.99. Recreational facilities. Provide a variety of recreational facilities and services that
contribute to the health and well-being of Portlanders of all ages and abilities.
261. Finding: The City Council interprets policies 8.92 through 8.103 to address City-owned parks and
natural areas and not development on private land. These policies do not apply.
Public safety and emergency response
Policy 8.104. Emergency preparedness, response, and recovery coordination. Coordinate land use
plans and public facility investments between City bureaus, other public and jurisdictional agencies,
businesses, community partners, and other emergency response providers, to ensure coordinated and
comprehensive emergency and disaster risk reduction, preparedness, response, and recovery.
Policy 8.105. Emergency management facilities. Provide adequate public facilities – such as
emergency coordination centers, communications infrastructure, and dispatch systems – to support
emergency management, response, and recovery.
Policy 8.106. Police facilities. Improve and maintain police facilities to allow police personnel to
efficiently and effectively respond to public safety needs and serve designated land uses.
Policy 8.107. Community safety centers. Establish, coordinate, and co-locate public safety and other
community services in centers.
Policy 8.108. Fire facilities. Improve and maintain fire facilities to serve designated land uses, ensure
equitable and reliable response, and provide fire and life safety protection that meets or exceeds
minimum established service levels.
Policy 8.109. Mutual aid. Maintain mutual aid coordination with regional emergency response
providers as appropriate to protect life and ensure safety.
Policy 8.110. Community preparedness. Enhance community preparedness and capacity to prevent,
withstand, and recover from emergencies and natural disasters through land use decisions and public
facility investments.
Policy 8.111. Continuity of operations. Maintain and enhance the City's ability to withstand and
recover from natural disasters and human-made disruptions in order to minimize disruptions to public
services.
262. Finding: The City Council interprets policies 8.104 through 8.111 to address the provision of public
safety and emergency response services and not development on private land. These policies do
not apply.

Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Solid waste management
Policy 8.112. Waste management. Ensure land use programs, rights-of-way regulations, and public
facility investments allow the City to manage waste effectively and prioritize waste management in
the following order: waste reduction, recycling, anaerobic digestion, composting, energy recovery, and
then landfill.
263. Finding: The City Council interprets this policy to address the provision of waste management
services and not development on private land. These policies do not apply.
School facilities
Policy 8.113. School district capacity. Consider the overall enrollment capacity of a school district – as
defined in an adopted school facility plan that meets the requirements of Oregon Revised Statute 195
– as a factor in land use decisions that increase capacity for residential development.
Policy 8.114. Facilities Planning. Facilitate coordinated planning among school districts and City
bureaus, including Portland Parks and Recreation, to accommodate school site/facility needs in
response to most up-to-date growth forecasts.
Policy 8.115. Co-location. Encourage public school districts, Multnomah County, the City of Portland,
and other providers to co-locate facilities and programs in ways that optimize service provision and
intergenerational and intercultural use.
Policy 8.116. Community use. Encourage public use of public school grounds for community purposes
while meeting educational and student safety needs and balancing impacts on surrounding
neighborhoods.
Policy 8.117. Recreational use. Encourage publicly-available recreational amenities (e.g. athletic fields,
green spaces, community gardens, and playgrounds) on public school grounds for public recreational
use, particularly in neighborhoods with limited access to parks.
Policy 8.118. Schools as emergency aid centers. Encourage the use of seismically-safe school facilities
as gathering and aid-distribution locations during natural disasters and other emergencies.
Policy 8.119. Facility adaptability. Ensure that public schools may be upgraded to flexibly
accommodate multiple community-serving uses and adapt to changes in educational approaches,
technology, and student needs over time.
Policy 8.120. Leverage public investment. Encourage City public facility investments that complement
and leverage local public school districts’ major capital investments.
Policy 8.121. School access. Encourage public school districts to consider the ability of students to
safely walk and bike to school when making decisions about the site locations and attendance
boundaries of schools.
Policy 8.122. Private institutions. Encourage collaboration with private schools and educational
institutions to support community and recreational use of their facilities.
264. Finding: The City Council interprets policies 8.115 through 8.122 to address school facilities and not
development on private land. These policies do not apply.
Technology and communications
Policy 8.123. Technology and communication systems. Maintain and enhance the City’s technology
and communication facilities to ensure public safety, facilitate access to information, and maintain
City operations.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy 8.124. Equity, capacity, and reliability. Encourage plans and investments in technology and
communication infrastructure to ensure access in all areas of the city, reduce disparities in capacity,
and affordability, and to provide innovative high-performance, reliable service for Portland’s residents
and businesses.
265. Finding:  The City Council interprets policies 8.123 and 8.124 to address the provision technology
and communication services and not development on private land. This policy does not apply.
Energy infrastructure
Policy 8.125. Energy efficiency. Promote efficient and sustainable production and use of energy
resources by residents and businesses, including low-carbon renewable energy sources, district energy
systems, and distributed generation, through land use plans, zoning, and other legislative land use
decisions.
Policy 8.126.  Coordination. Coordinate with energy providers to encourage investments that ensure
reliable, equitable, efficient, and affordable energy for Portland residents and businesses.
266. Finding:  The City Council finds that “promote” means to “further the progress of, advance, or
raise.” The 2035 Comprehensive Plan defines “coordinate” as work together with others toward a
common goal; collaborate. The verb “encourage”, which is defined in the 2035 Comprehensive
Plan, means to promote or foster using some combination of voluntary approaches, regulations, or
incentives. The City Council finds that these policies work together to promote efficient and
sustainable production and use of energy.  Also, the City Council finds that this is done by
coordinating with energy providers to encourage investments that will result in reliable, equitable,
efficient and affordable energy. As part of the concept development of the zoning code changes, in
June 2016 BPS held stakeholder focus group meetings with representatives from energy providers -
the FFTs, the Western States Petroleum Association and Northwest Natural. The Proposed Draft
was crafted in response to these discussions and additional comments on the Discussion Draft.
Further, in response to testimony at the Planning and Sustainability Commission, changes were
made to the use regulations to designate FFTs as a limited use (rather than a prohibited use) and
allow for a ten percent expansion of storage capacity in conjunction with seismic safety upgrades.
The City Council received testimony from energy providers that a ten percent capacity increase
limit would be a severe limitation and would not justify the private investment needed to replace
existing tanks. However, the City Council found that the energy providers’ proposed Energy
Corridor Overlay zone and definition of “region” as a seven state area (PADD-5) was not consistent
with other City goals and policies to reduce seismic risk. Further, the City does not have the
administrative authority and capacity to monitor and enforce regulations to control the destination
of fossil fuels flowing through Portland to a seven-state region. Also, allowing for unlimited
expansion of Portland’s FFTs is not consistent with the DOGAMI recommendation to mitigate
seismic vulnerability by increasing redundancy and reserve capacity in Oregon’s liquid fuel supply
by replacing, relocating, or adding redundant systems elsewhere. The FFTZ amendments designate
existing FFTs as a limited use, as opposed to a prohibited or nonconforming use, allows the
terminals to continue to operate and invest in facilities that reduce the risks and improve their
ability to withstand a major earthquake. Further, the use limitations (33.140.100.B.17.a) provide
flexibility to FFTs to replace and reconfigure existing storage tank capacity to increase safety.
The City has a few provisions in the Zoning Code to support energy conservation, including energy
efficiency or renewable energy improvements do not trigger nonconforming upgrade
improvements (PCC 33.258); development standards for small, urban-wind turbines (PCC 33.299);
and a requirement that new development in the Central City Plan District must register for green
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

building certification (PCC 33.510). The FFTZ amendments do not amend any of these
implementing provisions.
Chapter 9 Transportation
GOAL 9.A: Safety. Transportation safety impacts the livability of a city and the comfort and security of
those using City streets. Comprehensive efforts to improve transportation safety through engineering,
education, enforcement and evaluation will be used to eliminate traffic-related fatalities and serious
injuries from Portland’s transportation system.
Goal 9.B: Multiple goals. Portland’s transportation system is funded and maintained to achieve
multiple goals and measurable outcomes for people and the environment. The transportation system
is safe, complete, interconnected, multimodal, and fulfills daily needs for people and businesses.
GOAL 9.C: Great places. Portland’s transportation system enhances quality of life for all Portlanders,
reinforces existing neighborhoods and great places, and helps make new great places in town centers,
neighborhood centers and corridors, and civic corridors.
GOAL 9.D: Environmentally sustainable. The transportation system increasingly uses active
transportation, renewable energy, or electricity from renewable sources, achieves adopted carbon
reduction targets, and reduces air pollution, water pollution, noise, and Portlanders’ reliance on
private vehicles.
GOAL 9.E: Equitable transportation. The transportation system provides all Portlanders options to
move about the city and meet their daily needs by using a variety of safe, efficient, convenient, and
affordable modes of transportation. Transportation investments are responsive to the distinct needs
of each community.
GOAL 9.F: Positive health outcomes. The transportation system promotes positive health outcomes
and minimizes negative impacts for all Portlanders by supporting active transportation, physical
activity, and community and individual health.
GOAL 9.G: Opportunities for prosperity. The transportation system supports a strong and diverse
economy, enhances the competitiveness of the city and region, and maintains Portland’s role as a
West Coast trade gateway and freight hub by providing efficient and reliable goods movement,
multimodal access to employment areas and educational institutions, as well as enhanced freight
access to industrial areas and intermodal freight facilities. The transportation system helps people and
businesses reduce spending and keep money in the local economy by providing affordable alternatives
to driving.
GOAL 9.H: Cost effectiveness. The City analyzes and prioritizes capital and operating investments to
cost effectively achieve the above goals while responsibly managing and protecting our past
investments in existing assets.
GOAL 9.I: Airport Futures. Promote a sustainable airport (Portland International Airport [PDX]) by
meeting the region’s air transportation needs without compromising livability and quality of life for
future generations.
267. Finding: The City Council interprets these goals to address transportation improvements,
programming, funding priorities and provide policy guidance for developing and implementing the
Transportation System Plan. The adopted 2035 Comprehensive Plan includes the Transportation
System Plan (TSP), which was adopted in three phases (Ordinance 187832, 188177, and 188957).
Phase 1 and 2 was submitted as part Task Four of Periodic Review; and both were approved by
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

LCDC Order 18 – WKTSK – 001897 on August 8, 2018. Phase 3 of the Transportation System Plan
was adopted as a post-acknowledgement plan amendment by Ordinance No. 188957, became
effective on June 23, 2018. The FFTZ amendments do not amend the TSP.
The City Council interprets these goals to apply to the transportation system as whole and not to
individual components of the transportation system. The FFTZ amendments limit one type of use
allowed in industrial areas. The remaining industrial uses continue to be regulated under the
current development regulations and do not intensify the development capacity. Therefore, the
amendments do not have a significant effect on the transportation system.
Specifically, the City Council finds that Goal 9.G requires Portland to maintain Portland’s role as a
multimodal freight hub as part of supporting a strong and diverse economy. The FFTZ amendments
maintains Portland’s role as a multimodal freight hub with enhanced freight access because they do
not amend the Citywide System Plan or the Transportation System Plan, therefore the City
continues to plan for public infrastructure investments to maintain and strengthen the multimodal
transportation infrastructure in the industrial areas where the existing FFTs are located. The
regulations are narrowly crafted to support the retention of existing fossil fuel terminals by
designating them as a limited use that allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in
upgrades and supports opportunities for growth through exceptions, such as aviation or renewable
fuels. Finally, even though transloading facilities are a defining characteristic of a Bulk Fossil Fuel
Terminal, the ordinance only limits new fossil fuel storage tank capacity. It does not regulate
transloading facilities, docks or pipelines – facilities that are key components of the multimodal
freight transportation system. Existing FFTs and other industrial uses can make investments in
multimodal freight facilities.
Testimony from the Portland Business Alliance et al., the Working Water Coalition, and the Western
States Petroleum Association raised the concern that the ordinance would force fuels to be
transported by truck and increase vehicle miles travelled and emissions. The City Council finds that
this unsupported assertion provides no details or explanation as to how this ordinance will force a
change in transportation modes. There is no explanation or evidence on future demand, pipeline
capacity utilization, or storage tank utilization or how or why truck traffic would increase. BPS staff
provided evidence in the Council presentation and the written record that demonstrates that there
is a reasonable expectation that the demand for fossil fuels will be flat and that the existing FFT
storage capacity, with the allowed exceptions, will continue to meet the future demand for fossil
fuels.
Designing and planning
Policy 9.1. Street design classifications. Maintain and implement street design classifications
consistent with land use plans, environmental context, urban design pattern areas, and the
Neighborhood Corridor and Civic Corridor Urban Design Framework designations.
Policy 9.2. Street policy classifications. Maintain and implement street policy classifications for
pedestrian, bicycle, transit, freight, emergency vehicle, and automotive movement, while considering
access for all modes, connectivity, adjacent planned land uses, and state and regional requirements.
9.2.a. Designate district classifications that emphasize freight mobility and access in industrial
and employment areas serving high levels of truck traffic and to accommodate the needs of
intermodal freight movement.
9.2.b. Designate district classifications that give priority to pedestrian access in areas where high
levels of pedestrian activity exist or are planned, including the Central City, Gateway regional
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

center, town centers, neighborhood centers, and transit station areas.
9.2.c. Designate district classifications that give priority to bicycle access and mobility in areas
where high levels of bicycle activity exist or are planned, including Downtown, the River District,
Lloyd District, Gateway Regional Center, town centers, neighborhood centers, and transit station
areas.
Policy 9.3. Transportation System Plan. Maintain and implement the Transportation System Plan
(TSP) as the decision-making tool for transportation-related projects, policies, programs, and street
design.
Policy 9.4. Use of classifications. Plan, develop, implement, and manage the transportation system in
accordance with street design and policy classifications outlined in the Transportation System Plan.
9.4.a. Classification descriptions are used to describe how streets should function for each mode
of travel, not necessarily how they are functioning at present.
268. Finding: The FFTZ amendments do not change the functional classification of any existing or
proposed transportation facility, nor do they change the standards implementing a functional
classification system.
Policy 9.5. Mode share goals and Vehicle Miles Travelled (VMT) reduction. Increase the share of trips
made using active and low-carbon transportation modes. Reduce VMT to achieve targets set in the
most current Climate Action Plan and Transportation System Plan, and meet or exceed Metro’s mode
share and VMT targets.
Policy 9.6. Transportation strategy for people movement. Design the system to accommodate the
most vulnerable users, including those that need special accommodation under the Americans with
Disabilities Act (ADA). Implement a prioritization of modes for people movement by making
transportation system decisions per the following ordered list:
• Walking
• Bicycling
• Transit
• Fleets of electric, fully automated, multiple passenger vehicles
• Other shared vehicles
• Low or no occupancy vehicles, fossil-fueled non-transit vehicles
When implementing this prioritization ensure that:
• The needs and safety of each group of users are considered, and changes do not make
existing conditions worse for the most vulnerable users.
• All users’ needs are balanced with the intent of optimizing the right of way for multiple
modes on the same street.
• When necessary to ensure safety, accommodate some users on parallel streets as part
of multi-street corridors.
• Land use and system plans, network functionality for all modes, other street functions,
and complete street policies, are maintained.
• Policy-based rationale is provided if modes lower in the ordered list are prioritized.
Policy 9.7. Moving goods and delivering services. In tandem with people movement, maintain
efficient and reliable movement of goods and services as a critical transportation system function.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Prioritize freight system reliability improvements over single-occupancy vehicle mobility where there
are solutions that distinctly address those different needs.
269. Finding:  The City Council interprets policies 9.5 through 9.7 to mean that people movement and
freight movement are critical functions of the transportation system that should be prioritized over
single-occupancy vehicles. Further, the City Council interprets this policy to apply to transportation
system design and investment decisions, and not land use decisions. Portland’s role as a
multimodal freight hub is maintained because the FFTZ amendments do not amend the Citywide
System Plan or the Transportation System Plan. Therefore, the City continues to plan for public
infrastructure investments to maintain and strengthen the multimodal transportation
infrastructure in the northwest industrial area where the FFTs are located. The ordinance regulates
storage capacity, it does not regulate transloading facilities, docks or pipelines – facilities that are
key components of the multimodal freight transportation system.
Testimony from the Portland Business Alliance et al., the Working Water Coalition, and the Western
States Petroleum Association raised the concern that the ordinance would force fuels to be
transported by truck and increase vehicle miles travelled and emissions. The City Council finds that
this unsupported assertion provides no details or explanation as to how this ordinance will force a
change in transportation modes. There is no explanation or evidence on future demand, pipeline
capacity utilization, or storage tank utilization or how or why truck traffic would increase. BPS staff
provided evidence in the Council presentation and the written record that demonstrates that there
is a reasonable expectation that the demand for fossil fuels will be flat and that the existing FFT
storage capacity, with the allowed exceptions, will continue to meet the future demand for fossil
fuels.
Policy 9.8. Affordability. Improve and maintain the transportation system to increase access to
convenient and affordable transportation options for all Portlanders, especially those who have
traditionally been under-served or under-represented or have historically borne unequal burdens.
Policy 9.9. Accessible and age-friendly transportation system. Ensure that transportation facilities are
accessible to people of all ages and abilities, and that all improvements to the transportation system
(traffic, transit, bicycle, and pedestrian) in the public right-of-way comply with the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990. Improve and adapt the transportation system to better meet the needs of the
most vulnerable users, including the young, older adults, and people with different abilities.
Policy 9.10. Geographic policies. Adopt geographically-specific policies in the Transportation System
Plan to ensure that transportation infrastructure reflects the unique topography, historic character,
natural features, system gaps, economic needs, demographics, and land uses of each area. Use the
Pattern Areas identified in Chapter 3: Urban Form as the basis for area policies.
9.10.a. Refer to adopted area plans for additional applicable geographic objectives related to
transportation. Land use, development, and placemaking
270. Finding: Policies 9.8 through 9.10 address the design and planning of transportation facilities and
not development on private land. These policies do not apply.
Land use, development, and placemaking
Policy 9.11. Land use and transportation coordination. Implement the Comprehensive Plan Map and
the Urban Design Framework though coordinated long-range transportation and land use planning.
Ensure that street policy and design classifications and land uses complement one another.
Policy 9.12. Growth strategy. Use street design and policy classifications to support Goals 3A-3G in
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Chapter 3: Urban Form. Consider the different design contexts and transportation functions in Town
Centers, Neighborhood Centers, Neighborhood Corridors, Employment Areas, Freight Corridors, Civic
Corridors, Transit Station Areas, and Greenways.
Policy 9.13. Development and street design. Evaluate adjacent land uses to help inform street
classifications in framing, shaping, and activating the public space of streets. Guide development and
land use to create the kinds of places and street environments intended for different types of streets.
271. Finding:  For policies 9.11 through 9.13, the City Council interprets these policies as providing
direction to ensure that the transportation system, specifically the street classifications, support
the Comprehensive Plan Map (and land use designations). The FFTZ amendments do not change
the functional classification of any existing or proposed transportation facility, nor do they change
the standards implementing a functional classification system. The FFTZ amendments limit one type
of use allowed in industrial areas. The remaining industrial uses continue to be regulated under the
current development regulations and do not intensify the development capacity. Therefore, the
long-range transportation and land use plan continue to be coordinated.
Streets as public spaces
Policy 9.14. Streets for transportation and public spaces. Integrate both placemaking and
transportation functions when designing and managing streets by encouraging design, development,
and operation of streets to enhance opportunities for them to serve as places for community
interaction, environmental function, open space, tree canopy, recreation, and other community
purposes.
Policy 9.15. Repurposing street space. Encourage repurposing street segments that are not critical for
transportation connectivity to other community purposes.
Policy 9.16. Design with nature. Promote street alignments and designs that respond to topography
and natural features, when feasible, and protect streams, wildlife habitat, and native trees.
272. Finding: These policies address the design and use of public streets and not development on private
land. These policies do not apply.
Modal policies
Policy 9.17. Pedestrian transportation. Encourage walking as the most attractive mode of
transportation for most short trips, within and to centers, corridors, and major destinations, and as a
means for accessing transit.
Policy 9.18. Pedestrian networks. Create more complete networks of pedestrian facilities, and
improve the quality of the pedestrian environment.
Policy 9.19. Pedestrian safety and accessibility. Improve pedestrian safety, accessibility, and
convenience for people of all ages and abilities.
Policy 9.20. Bicycle transportation. Create conditions that make bicycling more attractive than driving
for most trips of approximately three miles or less.
Policy 9.21. Accessible bicycle system. Create a bicycle transportation system that is safe,
comfortable, and accessible to people of all ages and abilities.
Policy 9.22. Public transportation. Coordinate with public transit agencies to create conditions that
make transit the preferred mode of travel for trips that are not made by walking or bicycling.
Policy 9.23. Transportation to job centers. Promote and enhance transit to be more convenient and
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

economical than the automobile for people travelling more than three miles to and from the Central
City and Gateway. Enhance regional access to the Central City and access from Portland to other
regional job centers.
Policy 9.24. Transit service. In partnership with TriMet, develop a public transportation system that
conveniently, safely, comfortably, and equitably serves residents and workers 24 hours a day, 7 days a
week.
Policy 9.25. Transit equity. In partnership with TriMet, maintain and expand high-quality frequent
transit service to all Town Centers, Civic Corridors, Neighborhood Centers, Neighborhood Corridors,
and other major concentrations of employment, and improve service to areas with high
concentrations of poverty and historically under-served and under-represented communities.
9.25.a. Support a public transit system and regional transportation that address the
transportation needs of historically marginalized communities and provide increased mobility
options and access.
Policy 9.26. Transit funding. Consider funding strategies and partnership opportunities that improve
access to and equity in transit service, such as raising metro-wide funding to improve service and
decrease user fees/fares.
Policy 9.27. Transit service to centers and corridors. Use transit investments to shape the city’s
growth and increase transit use. In partnership with TriMet and Metro, maintain, expand, and
enhance Portland Streetcar, frequent service bus, and high-capacity transit, to better serve centers
and corridors with the highest intensity of potential employment and household growth.
9.27.a. Locate major park-and-ride lots only where transit ridership is increased significantly,
vehicle miles traveled are reduced, transit-supportive development is not hampered, bus service
is not available or is inadequate, and the surrounding area is not negatively impacted.
Policy 9.28. Intercity passenger service. Coordinate planning and project development to expand
intercity passenger transportation services in the Willamette Valley, and from Portland to Seattle and
Vancouver, BC.
Policy 9.29. Regional trafficways and transitways. Maintain capacity of regional transitways and
existing regional trafficways to accommodate through-traffic.
273. Finding:  Policies 9.17 through 9.29 address the design and planning of transportation facilities and
not development on private land. These policies do not apply.
Policy 9.30. Multimodal goods movement. Develop, maintain, and enhance a multimodal freight
transportation system for the safe, reliable, sustainable, and efficient movement of goods within and
through the city.
Policy 9.31. Economic development and industrial lands. Ensure that the transportation system
supports traded sector economic development plans and full utilization of prime industrial land,
including brownfield redevelopment.
Policy 9.32. Multimodal system and hub. Maintain Portland’s role as a multimodal hub for global and
regional movement of goods. Enhance Portland’s network of multimodal freight corridors.
Policy 9.33. Freight network. Develop, manage, and maintain a safe, efficient, and reliable freight
street network to provide freight access to and from intermodal freight facilities, industrial and
commercial districts, and the regional transportation system. Invest to accommodate forecasted
growth of interregional freight volumes and provide access to truck, marine, rail, and air
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

transportation systems. Ensure designated routes and facilities are adequate for over-dimensional
trucks and emergency equipment.
Policy 9.34. Sustainable freight system. Support the efficient delivery of goods and services to
businesses and neighborhoods, while also reducing environmental and neighborhood impacts.
Encourage the use of energy efficient and clean delivery vehicles, and manage on- and off-street
loading spaces to ensure adequate access for deliveries to businesses, while maintaining access to
homes and businesses.
Policy 9.35. Freight rail network. Coordinate with stakeholders and regional partners to support
continued reinvestment in, and modernization of, the freight rail network.
Policy 9.36. Portland Harbor. Coordinate with the Port of Portland, private stakeholders, and regional
partners to improve and maintain access to marine terminals and related river-dependent uses in
Portland Harbor.
9.36.a. Support continued reinvestment in, and modernization of, marine terminals in Portland
Harbor.
9.36.b. Facilitate continued maintenance of the shipping channels in Portland Harbor and the
Columbia River.
9.36.c. Support shifting more long-distance, high-volume movement of goods to river and
oceangoing ships and rail.
274. Finding:  Policies 9.30 through 9.36 direct the City to develop, maintain, and enhance a multimodal
freight transportation system. The City Council interprets these policies to apply to transportation
system design and city investment decisions that are embodied in the Freight Master Plan, which is
one of the modal plans of the TSP. The Freight Master Plan includes capital projects, programs and
activities to improve mobility, reduce community conflicts, and promote a multimodal
transportation system to support long-term economic development. The FFTZ amendments
maintain Portland’s multimodal freight hub because they do not amend the Citywide System Plan
or the Transportation System Plan, therefore the City continues to plan for public infrastructure
investments to maintain and strengthen the multimodal transportation infrastructure in the
northwest industrial area where the FFTs are located. Further, the changes support the retention of
existing fossil fuel terminals by designating them as a limited use that allows the terminals to
continue to operate and invest in upgrades and supports opportunities for growth through
exceptions, such as aviation or renewable fuels. Finally, even though transloading facilities are a
defining characteristic of a Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminal, the ordinance only limits new fossil fuel
storage tank capacity and does not regulate transloading facilities, docks or pipelines – facilities
that are key components of the multimodal freight transportation system. Existing FFTs and other
industrial uses can make investments in multimodal freight facilities.
Testimony from the Portland Business Alliance et al., the Working Water Coalition, and the Western
States Petroleum Association raised the concern that the ordinance would force fuels to be
transported by truck and increase vehicle miles travelled and emissions. The City Council finds that
this unsupported assertion provides no details or explanation as to how this ordinance will force a
change in transportation modes. There is no explanation or evidence on future demand, pipeline
capacity utilization, or storage tank utilization or how or why truck traffic would increase. BPS staff
provided evidence in the Council presentation and the written record that demonstrates that there
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

is a reasonable expectation that the demand for fossil fuels will be flat and that the existing FFT
storage capacity, with the allowed exceptions, will continue to meet the future demand for fossil
fuels.
Policy 9.37. Portland Heliport. Maintain Portland’s Heliport functionality in the Central City.
275. Finding:  This policy applies to the Central City. There are no FFTs in the Central City. This policy
does not apply.
Policy 9.38. Automobile transportation. Maintain acceptable levels of mobility and access for private
automobiles while reducing overall vehicle miles traveled (VMT) and negative impacts of private
automobiles on the environment and human health.
Policy 9.39. Automobile efficiency. Coordinate land use and transportation plans and programs with
other public and private stakeholders to encourage vehicle technology innovation, shifts toward
electric and other cleaner, more energy-efficient vehicles and fuels, integration of smart vehicle
technology with intelligent transportation systems, and greater use of options such as car-share,
carpool, and taxi.
Policy 9.40. Emergency response. Maintain a network of accessible emergency
response streets to facilitate safe and expedient emergency response and evacuation. Ensure that
police, fire, ambulance, and other emergency providers can reach their destinations in a timely
fashion, without negatively impacting traffic calming and other measures intended to reduce crashes
and improve safety.
276. Finding: Policies 9.38 through 9.40 address the design and use of public streets and not
development on private land. These policies do not apply.
Airport Futures
Policy 9.41. Portland International Airport. Maintain the Portland International Airport as an
important regional, national, and international transportation hub serving the bi-state economy.
Policy 9.42. Airport regulations. Implement the Airport Futures Plan through the implementation of
the Portland International Airport Plan District.
9.42.a. Prohibit the development of a potential third parallel runway at PDX unless need for its
construction is established through a transparent, thorough, and regional planning process.
9.42.b. Support implementation of the Aircraft Landing Zone to provide safer operating
conditions for aircraft in the vicinity of Portland International Airport by limiting the height of
structures, vegetation, and construction equipment.
9.42.c. Support the Port of Portland’s Wildlife Hazard Management Plan by implementing
airport-specific landscaping requirements in the Portland International Airport Plan District to
reduce conflicts between wildlife and aircraft.
Policy 9.43. Airport partnerships. Partner with the Port of Portland and the regional community to
address the critical interconnection between economic development, environmental stewardship, and
social responsibility. Support an ongoing public advisory committee for PDX to:
9.43.a. Support meaningful and collaborative public dialogue and engagement on airport
related planning and development.
9.43.b. Provide an opportunity for the community to inform the decision-making related to the
airport of the Port, the City of Portland, and other jurisdictions/organizations in the region.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

9.43.c. Raise public knowledge about PDX and impacted communities.
Policy 9.44. Airport investments. Ensure that new development and redevelopment of airport
facilities supports the City’s and the Port’s sustainability goals and policies, and is in accordance with
Figure 9-3 — Portland International Airport. Allow the Port flexibility in configuring airport facilities to
preserve future development options, minimize environmental impacts, use land resources efficiently,
maximize operational efficiency, ensure development can be effectively phased, and address Federal
Aviation Administration’s airport design criteria.
277. Finding:  Policies 9.41 through 9.44 provide policy direction related to Portland International
Airport. The FFTZ amendments include an exemption for fossil fuel storage facilities for the
exclusive use at airports to maintain a supply of aviation fuel to Portland International Airport
(PDX).
System management
Policy 9.45. System management. Give preference to transportation improvements that use existing
roadway capacity efficiently and that improve the safety of the system for all users.
9.45.a. Support regional equity measures for transportation system evaluation.
Policy 9.46. Traffic management. Evaluate and encourage traffic speed and volume to be consistent
with street classifications and desired land uses to improve safety, preserve and enhance
neighborhood livability, and meet system goals of calming vehicle traffic through a combination of
enforcement, engineering, and education efforts.
9.46.a. Use traffic calming tools, traffic diversion and other available tools and methods to
create and maintain sufficiently low automotive volumes and speeds on neighborhood
greenways to ensure comfortable cycling environment on the street.
Policy 9.47. Connectivity. Establish an interconnected, multimodal transportation system to serve
centers and other significant locations. Promote a logical, direct, and connected street system through
street spacing guidelines and district-specific street plans found in the Transportation System Plan,
and prioritize access to specific places by certain modes in accordance with policies 9.6 and 9.7.
9.47.a. Develop conceptual master street plans for areas of the City that have significant
amounts of vacant or underdeveloped land and where the street network does not meet City
and Metro connectivity guidelines.
9.47.b. As areas with adopted Street Plans develop, provide connectivity for all modes by
developing the streets and accessways as shown on the Master Street Plan Maps in the Comp
Plan.
9.47.c. Continue to provide connectivity in areas with adopted Street Plans for all modes of
travel by developing public and private streets as shown on the Master Street Plan Maps in the
Comp Plan.
9.47.d. Provide street connections with spacing of no more than 530 feet between connections
except where prevented by barriers such as topography, railroads, freeways, or environmental
constraints. Where streets must cross over protected water features, provide crossings at an
average spacing of 800 to 1000 feet, unless exceptional habitat quality of length of crossing
prevents a full street connection.
9.47.e Provide bike and pedestrian connections at approximately 330 feet intervals on public
easements or rights-of-way when full street connections are not possible, except where
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

prevented by barriers s such as topography, railroads, freeways, or environmental constraints.
Bike and pedestrian connections that cross protected water features should have an average
spacing of no more than 530 feet, unless exceptional habitat quality or length of connection
prevents a connection.
Policy 9.48 Technology. Encourage the use of emerging vehicle and parking technology to improve
real-time management of the transportation network and to manage and allocate parking supply and
demand.
Policy 9.49 Performance measures. Establish multimodal performance measures and measures of
system completeness to evaluate and monitor the adequacy of transportation services based on
performance measures in goals 9.A. through 9.I. Use these measures to evaluate overall system
performance, inform corridor and area-specific plans and investments, identify project and program
needs, evaluate and prioritize investments, and regulate development, institutional campus growth,
zone changes, Comprehensive Plan Map amendments, and conditional uses.
9.49.a. Eliminate deaths and serious injuries for all who share Portland streets by 2025.
9.49.b. Maintain or decrease the number of peak period non-freight motor vehicle trips, system-
wide and within each mobility corridor to reduce or manage congestion.
9.49.c. By 2035, reduce the number of miles Portlanders travel by car to 11 miles per day or less,
on average.
9.49.d. Establish mode split targets in 2040 Growth Concept areas within the City, consistent
with Metro’s targets for these areas.
9.49.e. By 2035, increase the mode share of daily non-drive alone trips to 70 percent citywide,
and to the following in the five pattern areas:
Pattern Area 2035 daily target mode share
Central City 85%
Inner Neighborhoods 70%
Western Neighborhoods 65%
Eastern Neighborhoods 65%
Industrial and River 55%

9.49.f. By 2035, 70 percent of commuters walk, bike, take transit, carpool, or work from home
at approximately the following rates:
Mode Mode Share
Walk 7.5%
Bicycle 25%
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Transit 25%
Carpool 10%
Single Occupant Vehicle (SOV) 30% or less
Work at home 10% below the line (calculated
outside of the modal targets above)

9.49.g. By 2035, reduce Portland’s transportation-related carbon emissions to 50% below 1990
levels, at approximately 934,000 metric tons.
9.49.h. By 2025, increase the percentage of new mixed use zone building households not
owning an automobile from approximately 13% (2014) to 25%, and reduce the percentage of
households owning two automobiles from approximately 24% to 10%.
9.49.i. Develop and use alternatives to the level-of-service measure to improve safety,
encourage multimodal transportation, and to evaluate and mitigate maintenance and new trip
impacts from new development.
9.49.j. Use level-of-service, consistent with Table 9.1*, as one measure to evaluate the
adequacy of transportation facilities in the vicinity of sites subject to land use review.
9.49.k. Maintain acceptable levels of performance on state facilities and the regional arterial
and throughway network, consistent with the interim standard in Table 9.2*, in the
development and adoption of, and amendments to, the Transportation System Plan and in
legislative amendments to the Comprehensive Plan Map.
9.49.l. In areas identified by Metro that exceed the level-of-service in Table 9.2* and are
planned to, but do not currently meet the alternative performance criteria, establish an action
plan that does the following:
• Anticipates growth and future impacts of motor vehicle traffic on multimodal travel in
the area
• Establishes strategies for mitigating the future impacts of motor vehicles
• Establishes performance standards for monitoring and implementing the action plan.
*Note:  Referenced Tables 9.1 and 9.2 are contained within the Transportation System Plan and
should not be confused with tables or figures within the 2035 Comprehensive Plan.
9.49.m. Develop performance measures to track progress in creating and maintaining the
transportation system.
Policy 9.50 Regional congestion management. Coordinate with Metro to establish new regional
multimodal mobility standards that prioritize transit, freight, and system completeness.
9.50.a. Create a regional congestion management approach, including a market-based system,
to price or charge for auto trips and parking, better account for the cost of auto trips, and to
more efficiently manage the regional system.
Policy 9.51. Multimodal Mixed-Use Area. Manage Central City Plan amendments in accordance with
the designated Central City Multimodal Mixed-Use Area (MMA) in the geography indicated in Figure 9‐
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

2. The MMA renders congestion / mobility standards inapplicable to any proposed plan amendments
under OAR 660-0012-0060(10).
278. Finding: Policies 9.45 through 9.51 address the management of the City’s transportation system
and not development on private land. These policies do not apply.
Transportation Demand Management
Policy 9.52. Outreach. Create and maintain TDM outreach programs that work with Transportation
Management Associations (TMA), residents, employers, and employees that increase the modal share
of walking, bicycling, and shared vehicle trips while reducing private vehicle ownership, parking
demand, and drive-alone trips, especially during peak periods.
Policy 9.53. New development. Create and maintain TDM regulations and services that prevent and
reduce traffic and parking impacts from new development and redevelopment. Encourage
coordinated area-wide delivery of TDM programs. Monitor and improve the performance of private-
sector TDM programs.
Policy 9.54. Projects and programs. Integrate TDM information into transportation project and
program development and implementation to increase use of new multimodal transportation projects
and services.
279. Finding:  Policies 9.52 through 9.54 address TDM programs. The FFTZ amendments affect one type
of allowed use in employment and industrial zones. The City Council has not applied the TDM
program to industrial development and those changes are not part of this ordinance.
Parking management
Policy 9.55. Parking management. Reduce parking demand and manage supply to improve
pedestrian, bicycle and transit mode share, neighborhood livability, safety, business district vitality,
vehicle miles traveled (VMT) reduction, and air quality. Implement strategies that reduce demand for
new parking and private vehicle ownership, and that help maintain optimal parking occupancy and
availability.
Policy 9.56. Curb Zone. Recognize that the Curb Zone is a public space, a physical and spatial asset
that has value and cost. Evaluate whether, when, and where parking is the highest and best use of this
public space in support of broad City policy goals and local land use context. Establish thresholds to
utilize parking management and pricing tools in areas with high parking demand to ensure adequate
on-street parking supply during peak periods.
Policy 9.57. On-street parking. Manage parking and loading demand, supply, and operations in the
public right of way to achieve mode share objectives, and to encourage safety, economic vitality, and
livability. Use transportation demand management and pricing of parking in areas with high parking
demand.
Policy 9.58. Off-street parking. Limit the development of new parking spaces to achieve land use,
transportation, and environmental goals, especially in locations with frequent transit service. Regulate
off-street parking to achieve mode share objectives, promote compact and walkable urban form,
encourage lower rates of car ownership, and promote the vitality of commercial and employment
areas. Use transportation demand management and pricing of parking in areas with high parking
demand.
Policy 9.59. Share space and resources. Encourage the shared use of parking and vehicles to maximize
the efficient use of limited urban space.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy 9.60. Cost and price. Recognize the high public and private cost of parking by encouraging
prices that reflect the cost of providing parking and balance demand and supply. Discourage employee
and resident parking subsidies.
Policy 9.61. Bicycle parking. Promote the development of new bicycle parking facilities including
dedicated bike parking in the public right-of-way. Provide sufficient bicycle parking at high-capacity
transit stations to enhance bicycle connection opportunities. Require provision of adequate off-street
bicycle parking for new development and redevelopment. Encourage the provision of parking for
different types of bicycles. In establishing the standards for long-term bicycle parking, consider the
needs of persons with different levels of ability.
280. Finding: Policies 9.55 through 9.61 address parking. The FFTZ amendments do not change parking
requirements or development standards affecting parking or the use of the right-of-way for
parking. These policies do not apply.
Finance, programs, and coordination
Policy 9.62. Coordination. Coordinate with state and federal agencies, local and regional
governments, special districts, other City bureaus, and providers of transportation services when
planning for, developing, and funding transportation facilities and services.
Policy 9.63. New development impacts. Prevent, reduce, and mitigate the impacts of new
development and redevelopment on the transportation system. Utilize strategies including
transportation and parking demand management, transportation system analysis, and system and
local impact mitigation improvements and fees.
Policy 9.64. Education and encouragement. Create, maintain, and coordinate educational and
encouragement programs that support multimodal transportation and that emphasize safety for all
modes of transportation. Ensure that these programs are accessible to historically under-served and
under-represented populations.
Policy 9.65. Telecommuting. Promote telecommuting and the use of communications technology to
reduce travel demand.
Policy 9.66. Project and program selection criteria. Establish transportation project and program
selection criteria consistent with goals 9A through 9I, to cost-effectively achieve access, placemaking,
sustainability, equity, health, prosperity, and safety goals.
Policy 9.67. Funding. Encourage the development of a range of stable transportation funding sources
that provide adequate resources to build and maintain an equitable and sustainable transportation
system.
281. Finding: Policies 9.62 through 9.67 address the funding and management of the City’s
transportation system and not development on private land. These policies do not apply.
Connected and Automated Vehicles
Policy 9.68 Connected and Automated Vehicles Priorities and Outcomes. Prioritize connected and
automated vehicles that are fleet/shared ownership, fully automated, electric and, for passenger
vehicles, shared by multiple passengers (known by the acronym FAVES). Develop and implement
strategies for each following topic.
9.68.a. Ensure that all levels of automated vehicles advance Vision Zero by operating safely for
all users, especially for vulnerable road users.  Require adequate insurance coverage for
operators, customers, and the public-at-large by providers of commercial connected and
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

autonomous vehicle services.
9.68.b. Ensure that connected and automated vehicles improve travel time reliability and
system efficiency by:
1. maintaining or reducing the number of vehicle trips during peak congestion periods;
2. reducing low occupancy vehicle trips during peak congestion periods;
3. paying for use of, and impact on, Portland’s transportation system including factors
such as congestion level, vehicle miles traveled, vehicle occupancy, and vehicle energy
efficiency; and
4. supporting and encouraging use of public transportation.

9.68.c. Cut vehicle carbon pollution by reducing low occupancy “empty miles” traveled by
passenger vehicles with zero or one passengers. Prioritize electric and other zero direct emission
vehicles operated by fleets and carrying multiple passengers.
9.68.d. Make the benefits of automated mobility available on an equitable basis to all segments
of the community while ensuring traditionally disadvantaged communities are not
disproportionately hurt by connected and autonomous vehicle use.  This includes people with
disabilities, as well as communities of color, women, and geographically underserved
communities.
9.68.e Identify, prevent, and mitigate potential adverse impacts from connected and automated
vehicles.
Policy 9.69 Connected and Automated Vehicles Tools. Use a full range of tools to ensure that
connected and automated vehicles and private data communications devices installed in the City right
of way contribute to achieving Comprehensive Plan and Transportation System Plan goals and policies.
9.69.a. Maintain City authority to identify and develop appropriate data sharing requirements to
inform and support safe, efficient, and effective management of the transportation system.
Ensure that when connected and automated vehicles use City rights-of-way or when vehicles
connect with smart infrastructure within the City they share information including, but not
limited to, vehicle type, occupancy, speed, travel routes, and travel times, with appropriate
privacy controls. Ensure that private data communications devices installed in the City right of
way are required to share anonymized transportation data.
9.69.b. Design and manage the mobility zone, curb zone, and traffic control devices, e.g. to limit
speeds to increase safety, to minimize cut-through traffic, evaluate future demand for pick-up
and drop-off zones, and to prioritize automated electric vehicles carrying more passengers in
congested times and locations;
9.69.c. Evaluate the public cost and benefit of investments in wayside communication systems
serving connected and automated vehicles. Develop a criteria-driven automated vehicle wayside
infrastructure investment plan.
9.69.d. Develop sustainable user-pays funding mechanisms to support connected and
automated vehicle infrastructure and service investments, transportation system maintenance,
and efficient system management.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

9.69.e. Ensure that automated vehicles and vehicles that connect to smart City infrastructure,
and private data communications devices installed in the City right of way, help pay for
infrastructure and service investments, and support system reliability and efficiency. Develop a
tiered pricing structure that reflects vehicle impacts on the transportation system, including
factors such as congestion level, vehicle miles traveled, vehicle occupancy, and vehicle energy
efficiency.
282. Finding: Policies 9.68 and 9.69 address the management of automated vehicles and not
development on private land. These policies do not apply.

Chapter 10: Land Use Designations and Zoning
Goal 10.A: Land use designations and zoning. Effectively and efficiently carry out the goals and
policies of the Comprehensive Plan through the land use designations, Zoning Map, and the Zoning
Code.
283. The FFTZ amendments do not change the land use designations, nor do they amend the
Comprehensive Plan Map or the Zoning Map. These findings show how the changes carry out the
goals and policies of the Comprehensive Plan through the Zoning Code.
Land use designations
Policy 10.1. Land use designations. Apply a land use designation to all land and water within the City’s
Urban Services Boundary. Apply the designation that best advances the Comprehensive Plan goals and
policies. The land use designations are shown on the adopted Land Use Map and on official Zoning
Maps.
284. The FFTZ amendments do not change the land use designations, nor do they amend the
Comprehensive Plan Map or the Zoning Map. These findings show how the changes carry out the
goals and policies of the Comprehensive Plan through the Zoning Code.
The Zoning Map and the Zoning Code
Policy 10.2. Relationship of land use designations to base zones. Apply a base zone to all land and
water within the City’s urban services boundary. The base zone applied must either be a zone that
corresponds to the land use designation or be a zone that does not correspond but is allowed per
Figure 10-1 — Corresponding and Less-Intense Zones for Each Plan Map Designation. In some
situations, there are long-term or short-term obstacles to achieving the level of development intended
by the land use designation (e.g., an infrastructure improvement to serve the higher level of
development is planned but not yet funded). In these situations, a less intense zone (listed in Figure
10-1) may be applied. When a land use designation is amended, the zone may also have to be changed
to a corresponding zone or a zone that does not correspond but is allowed.
Policy 10.3. Amending the Zoning Map.
10.3.a. Amending a base zone may be done legislatively or quasi-judicially.
10.3.b. When amending a base zone quasi-judicially, the amendment must be to a
corresponding zone (see Figure 10-1 — Corresponding and Allowed Zones for Each Land Use
Designation). When a designation has more than one corresponding zone, the most appropriate
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

zone, based on the purpose of the zone and the zoning and general land uses of surrounding
lands, will be applied.
10.3.c. When amending a base zone legislatively, the amendment may be to a corresponding
zone or to a zone that is does not correspond but is allowed (see Figure 10-1 — Corresponding
and Allowed Zones for each Land Use Designation for zones that are allowed). A legislative
Zoning Map amendment may not be to a zone that is not allowed.
10.3.d. An amendment to a base zone consistent with the land use designation must be
approved when it is found that current public services can support the uses allowed by the zone,
or that public services can be made capable by the time the development is complete. The
adequacy of services is based on the proposed use and development. If a specific use and
development proposal is not submitted, services must be able to support the range of uses and
development allowed by the zone. For the purposes of this requirement, services include water
supply, sanitary sewage disposal, stormwater management, transportation, school district
capacity (where a school facility plan exists), and police and fire protection.
10.3.e. An amendment to apply or remove an overlay zone or plan district may be done
legislatively or quasi-judicially, and must be based on a study or plan document that identifies a
specific characteristic, situation, or problem that is not adequately addressed by the base zone
or other regulations.
285. Finding:  The FFTZ amendments do not amend the Zoning Map. The changes only define the
allowed uses in the base zones in the Zoning Code. This policy does not apply.
Policy 10.4. Amending the Zoning Code. Amendments to the zoning regulations must be done
legislatively and should be clear, concise, and applicable to a broad range of development situations
faced by a growing city. Amendments should:
286. Finding:  The FFTZ amendments were initially adopted by a legislative process and the
reconsideration on remand is a continuation of the initial legislative procedure at City Council. The
regulations are clear and concise in creating one use category with clear definition of terms and is
applicable to all employment and industrial zones.
10.4.a. Promote good planning:
• Effectively and efficiently implement the Comprehensive Plan.
287. Finding:  As demonstrated by these findings, the FFTZ amendments effectively and efficiently
implement the Comprehensive Plan. Specifically:
The City Council has considered applicable policies to determine that this ordinance on the whole
complies with the 2035 Comprehensive Plan and on balance is equally or more supportive of the
goals and policies of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan than the current regulations. In reaching this
conclusion, City Council has weighed and balanced competing policy directions.
In particular, the Council finds that Goal 4.D with Policies 4.79 and 4.80, requires evaluating and
reducing risk to people and property from natural hazards.  The FFTZ amendments further these
goals and policies because by limiting the risks of storing large volumes of hazardous materials in an
area with high susceptibility to an earthquake. Large fossil fuel terminals represent a risk to people,
property and the natural environments that the City Council finds as a compelling reason to limit
future risk by limiting the size of new facilities and prohibit the expansion of existing facilities.
Continuing to allow an unlimited increase in storage capacity at FFTs in a high risk area would be
less supportive of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan than adopting the FFTZ amendments
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

The City Council further finds that Policy 6.48 provides direction to limit fossil fuel terminals to what
is necessary to serve the region. The City Council recognizes that Portland’s fossil fuel terminals
handle 90 percent of the fossil fuel for the State of Oregon and Southwest Washington. BPS
presented evidence that national petroleum consumption forecast out to 2050 is essentially flat,
which is a continuation of historic trends in Oregon and Washington, during a period of a thriving
economy. In addition, ODOT is forecasting a decline in motor fuel consumption over the medium
term to 2029. The more recent cargo forecasts project a modest growth in volumes, but those
volumes do not exceed the historic peak volumes that were handled by the Portland terminals. No
other evidence of future demand for fossil fuels was submitted in testimony. Therefore, the City
Council finds that the fossil fuel storage capacity at the existing FFTs is sufficient to meet future
needs. These changes support the retention of existing fossil fuel terminals by designating them as
a limited use that allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in upgrades and supports
opportunities for growth through exceptions, such as aviation or renewable fuels. Further, the use
limitations provide flexibility to FFTs to replace and reconfigure existing storage tank capacity to
increase safety. In addition, limiting storage capacity to the existing facilities reduces risk from a
major earthquake, which outweighs the policy direction to provide capacity to accommodate any
potential future increase in fossil fuel consumption, in part, because continuing to consolidate fossil
fuel storage capacity in Portland is counter to resiliency principles that emphasize redundancy and
distributed facilities.
At the same time, the City Council finds that Goal 6.C with Policies 6.20 and 6.36, among others,
provide for the retention and growth of businesses, especially those in the traded sector. However,
the City Council interprets these policies apply to the economy in general, rather than specific types
of business. These changes and restrictions only apply to a narrowly defined new land use category,
Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminals, and do not have a significant effect on the other allowed uses in
industrial and employment zones.  There are no changes proposed to the Comprehensive Plan or
Zoning Map that will impact the overall size or intensity of development in the industrial and
employment areas of Portland. These amendments are narrowly constructed to apply to one class
of businesses that make up a small portion of the city, regional and state economy. Further, these
regulations only limit future expansion of these fossil fuel terminals, with some key exceptions, and
designate these businesses as a limited use that allows their continued operation.
Guilds Lake Industrial Sanctuary (GLIS) Plan policies provide direction to maintain, protect and
enhance businesses in the sanctuary. This plan was adopted in 2001 and does not address the need
for resiliency in a high and medium liquefaction susceptibility area. The City Council interprets these
policies to apply to the GLIS as a whole and not individual businesses. The City Council interprets
the legislative intent of the GLISP is to maintain the area as an industrial sanctuary and to prohibit
incompatible land uses.  The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do they allow for
new incompatible land uses that could undermine the viability of the industrial sanctuary. These
regulations apply to only one type of business that makes up a minority part of the businesses
found in GLIS. The remaining industrial uses to continue to operate under current regulations. The
impact of the limits on fossil fuel terminals is mitigated by designating existing fossil fuel terminals
as a limited use that allows the terminals to continue to operate and make upgrades and supports
limited enhancement through exceptions to the fossil fuel storage capacity restrictions.
• Address existing and potential land use problems.
288. Finding:  Most of Portland’s employment and industrial zones are in areas with high to very high
levels of liquefaction susceptibility, as documented by the 2018 DOGAMI Earthquake Regional
Impact Analysis. Fossil fuel infrastructure poses considerable risks in the event of a major
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

earthquake. The FFTs have significant seismic risks because most of the tanks have been
constructed without any or only limited seismic design criteria on soils with moderate to high levels
of liquefaction susceptibility, as documented by the Portland Bureau of Emergency Management's
2016 Critical Energy Infrastructure Hub Study and the 2012 DOGAMI Earthquake Risk Study for
Oregon's Critical Energy Infrastructure Hub report. Continuing to allow the increase in FFTs in a high
risk area increases the risk to the surrounding industrial district and the Willamette River. The FFTZ
amendments limit future risk by limiting the size of new fossil fuel terminals and prohibiting the
expansion of storage capacity at existing fossil fuel terminals, with limited exceptions for aviation
and renewable fuels.
• Balance the benefits of regulations against the costs of implementation and compliance.
289. The FFTZ amendments balance the benefits and costs by designating existing FFTs as a limited use,
as opposed to a prohibited nonconforming use, which allows the terminals to continue to operate
and invest in facilities that reduce the risks and improve their ability to withstand a major
earthquake, which ultimately can make Portland more resilient.
Testimony by the Portland Business Alliance, the Working Waterfront Coalition, and others implied
that the regulations will not be cost effective because existing FFTs cannot expand to meet market
demand. The City Council finds that based on the evidence in the record the fossil fuel storage
capacity at the existing FFTs is sufficient to meet future needs. There also is testimony that implies
that the cost of seismically upgrading is too expensive without expanding storage capacity. The City
Council rejects this assertion because no explanation or evidence was provided to support the
assertion that additional tanks are needed.
• Maintain Portland’s competitiveness with other jurisdictions as a location in which to live,
invest, and do business.
290. Finding:  The City Council interprets this policy to require the City maintain an adequate supply of
employment and housing land, but that it does not require the City to accommodate specific
individual businesses or sectors. The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do they
allow for new incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes maintain Portland’s employment
land supply to create opportunities for a growing economy. These regulations apply to only one
type of business that makes up a minority part of the businesses found in Portland’s industrial
districts. The remaining industrial uses continue to operate under the current development review
system.
10.4.b. Ensure good administration of land use regulations:
• Keep regulations as simple as possible.
291. Finding:  The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do they allow for new
incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes maintain Portland’s employment land supply to
create opportunities for a growing economy. These regulations apply to only one type of business
that makes up a minority part of the businesses found in Portland’s industrial districts. The
remaining industrial uses continue to operate under the current development review system.
• Use clear and objective standards wherever possible.
292. Finding:  The FFTZ amendments establish clear definitions for fossil fuels and the Bulk Fossil Fuel
Terminal use category.
• Maintain consistent procedures and limit their number.
• Establish specific approval criteria for land use reviews.
• Establish application requirements that are as reasonable as possible, and ensure they are
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

directly tied to approval criteria.
• Emphasize administrative procedures for land use reviews.
• Avoid overlapping reviews.
293. Finding:  The FFTZ amendments do not establish new procedures or land use reviews. The FFTZ
amendments establish clear definitions for fossil fuels and the Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminal use
category. These regulations apply to only one type of use that makes up a minority part of the uses
found in Portland’s industrial districts. The other industrial uses continue to operate under current
regulations. Designating the existing FFTs as a limited use, as opposed to a prohibited
nonconforming or conditional use, allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in
upgrades without additional discretionary land use reviews. tank capacity, such as consolidating
smaller tanks into larger tanks.
10.4.c. Strive to improve the code document:
• Use clear language.
• Maintain a clear and logical organization.
• Use a format and layout that enables use of the document by lay people as well as
professionals.
• Use tables and drawings to clarify and shorten the document.
• Identify and act on regulatory improvement suggestions.
294. Finding: The FFTZ amendments create a new use category consistent with the format used
described and regulate other types of uses. The Zoning Code amendments are presented in as clear
and objective of a way possible to ensure the intended users will be able understand and utilize the
Zoning Code as it applies to their development proposals, land use, and properties, consistent with
Comprehensive Plan Policy 10.4.
Part IV.  Adopted Area Plans
Pursuant to PCC 33.835.040(A), the City Council considers whether the FFTZ amendments are consistent
with any adopted area plan associated with the regulations.  The City Council finds that “consistent”
means “the ordinance meets the requirements of, satisfies, or adheres to the regulations, mandate, or
plan listed in the goal or policy. The City Council finds that Guild’s Lake Industrial Sanctuary Plan (GLISP)
is the only plan associated with the FFTZ amendments.
Guilds Lake Industrial Sanctuary Plan (2001)
The Guild’s Lake Industrial Sanctuary (GLIS) Plan provides a policy framework to protect and promote
the area’s long-term economic viability as an industrial district for a broad variety of industrial land
uses and businesses. The GLIS is an area that runs northwest of NW Vaughn Street along the
Willamette River to the St. Johns Bridge. The plan recognizes the unique role of industrial land in
Portland’s economy and the importance of industrial businesses in providing living-wage jobs. The
plan's vision statement, policies and objectives have been adopted as part of Portland's
Comprehensive Plan and are implemented through the Zoning Code through the GLIS Plan District
(33.531), which adds land use prohibitions and limits that were (at the time) above and beyond the
limits in the industrial base zones.
295. Finding:  The City Council finds that the central the purpose of the GLISP and its policies and
objectives is to protect the industrial area from encroachment from the neighboring residential and
commercial areas.

Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Policy 1: Jobs and Economic Development
Maintain and expand industrial business and employment opportunities in the Guild’s Lake Industrial
Sanctuary. Stimulate investment in the area’s public and private infrastructure and industrial facilities.
296. Finding:  The City Council interprets this policy and objectives to apply to the GLISP area as whole
and not to individual businesses or sectors of business. The GLISP seeks to provide a public policy
framework and foster a business environment that will create more certainty and encourage
continued private sector investment in facilities. The FFTZ amendments do not include map
changes, nor do they allow for new incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes do not
conflict with the policy intent to maintain the area as an industrial sanctuary. These regulations
apply to only one type of business that makes up a minority part of the businesses found in GLIS.
The remaining industrial uses continue to operate under current regulations. The impact of the
limits on fossil fuel terminals is mitigated by designating existing fossil fuel terminals as a limited
use, as opposed to a prohibited or non-conforming use, that allows the terminals to continue to
operate and invest in upgrades and supports opportunities for enhancement through exceptions,
such as aviation or renewable fuels.
The City Council interprets the verb “stimulate” to mean “encourage”, which is defined in the 2035
Comprehensive Plan as to promote or foster using some combination of voluntary approaches,
regulations, or incentives. The FFTZ amendments apply to only one type of business that makes up
a minority part of the businesses found in GLIS. The remaining industrial uses continue to operate
under current regulations. The limits on expansion of storage capacity at fossil fuel terminals is
mitigated by designating existing fossil fuel terminals as a limited use that allows the terminals to
continue to operate and invest in upgrades. In addition, even though transloading facilities are a
defining characteristic of a Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminal, the ordinance only limits new fossil fuel
storage tank capacity and does not regulate transloading facilities, docks or pipelines – facilities
that are key components of the multimodal freight transportation system. Existing FFTs and other
industrial uses can make investments in multimodal freight facilities. The FFTZ amendments do not
amend the Citywide System Plan or the Transportation System Plan, therefore the City continues to
plan for public infrastructure investments in the area.
As noted in the findings above, the FFTZ amendments are consistent with the goals and policies of
Chapter 6 (Economic Development) of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan and Statewide Planning Goal
9. The findings in response to those goals and policies are incorporated by reference.
Objective 1. Provide new employment opportunities by reusing or redeveloping reclaimed,
underutilized and vacant land and buildings in the GLIS.
297. Finding:  The City Council interprets the GLISP objectives as subpolicies that support the policy. The
City Council does not interpret the objectives as mandatory requirements that must be satisfied
with every legislative action.
The City Council finds that the objective does not require the City to provide new employment
opportunities with every legislative action but instead requires that the City maintain an adequate
supply of vacant and underutilized industrial land that can provide for new employment
opportunities, as defined in the EOA.  The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do
they allow for new incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes will continue to provide
opportunities for industrial redevelopment in the GLIS. These regulations apply to only one type of
business that makes up a minority part of the businesses found in GLIS. These changes support the
retention of existing fossil fuel terminals by designating them as a limited use that allows the
terminals to continue to operate and invest in upgrades, which maintains the current employment
opportunities at these businesses. The regulations also provide opportunities for growth through
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

exceptions, such as aviation or renewable fuels, which can provide additional employment
opportunities.
Objective 2. Foster a business and public policy environment that promotes continued private and
public sector investments in infrastructure, facilities, equipment and jobs.
298. Finding:  The City Council interprets this objective seeks to encourage an environment that furthers
public and private sector investments. The City Council finds that the City’s role is through land use
regulations, such as industrial zoning protections, maintaining an adequate supply of land; and
public infrastructure investments. The FFTZ amendments maintain industrial zoning protections
because the ordinance does not include changes to the Prime Industrial Overlay Zone, the GLIS Plan
District, or to the Zoning Map where they are applied. The FFTZ amendments do not include map
changes, nor do they allow for new incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes will continue
to provide an adequate industrial land base for employment growth. These regulations apply to
only one type of business that makes up a minority part of the businesses found in GLIS. The limits
on expansion of storage capacity at fossil fuel terminals is mitigated by designating existing fossil
fuel terminals as a limited use that allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in other
types of upgrades. The FFTZ amendments do not amend the Citywide System Plan or the
Transportation System Plan, therefore the City continues to plan for public infrastructure
investments in the area.
Objective 3. Enhance the GLIS as a competitive and forward-thinking industrial area by fostering
innovative and environmentally-sensitive industrial projects and practices that improve the
operational efficiency of GLIS firms while conserving natural resources and reducing pollution.
299. Finding:  The City Council interprets the verb “enhance”, which is not defined in the 2035
Comprehensive Plan, to mean to intensify or improve. The verb “foster”, which is defined in the
2035 Comprehensive Plan, means to encourage or guide the incremental development of
something over a long period of time. The City Council interprets this policy to mean that industrial
development should incorporate green building practices, such as on-site stormwater
management, and natural resource conservation, such as riverbank restoration. The City has
achieved this objective through other regulatory programs, such as the Stormwater Management
Manual and the Greenway Overlay Zone, that are not amended by this ordinance. The limits on
expansion of storage capacity at fossil fuel terminals is mitigated by designating existing fossil fuel
terminals as a limited use that allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in other types
of upgrades that conserve natural resources and reduce pollution.
Policy 2: Transportation
Maintain, preserve and improve the intermodal and multimodal transportation system to provide for
the smooth movement of goods and employees into and through the Guild’s Lake Industrial
Sanctuary.
300. Finding:  The Council finds that this policy seeks to maintain and improve the intermodal and
multimodal transportation system. The City Council interprets this policy and the objectives to
apply to the GLISP area as whole and not to individual businesses or sectors of business. The
transportation policy discussion and action plan in the GLISP is focused on a street system that
accommodates all modes of traffic while preserving operational characteristics that support truck
movement. The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do they allow for new
incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes will not significantly impact the performance of
the transportation system. The FFTZ amendments do not amend the Citywide System Plan or the
Transportation System Plan, therefore the City continues to plan for public infrastructure
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

investments in the area that seeks to accommodate all modes of traffic consistent with the freight
classifications for the district’s roadways.
The fossil fuel terminals are privately-owned, specialized intermodal facilities that exclusively
transport liquid bulk products into and out of the GLISP area via pipeline, barge, rail and truck.
There is no evidence that these terminals are used by other businesses to move other types of
goods. The limits on expansion of storage capacity at fossil fuel terminals is mitigated by
designating existing fossil fuel terminals as a limited use that allows the terminals to maintain,
preserve and continue to operate and improve their intermodal facilities to provide for the
continued movement of goods through the GLIS. Finally, the ordinance does not regulate
transloading facilities, docks or pipelines – facilities that are key components of the multimodal
freight transportation system. Existing FFTs and other industrial uses can make investments in
multimodal freight facilities.
As noted in the findings above, the FFTZ amendments are consistent with the goals and policies of
Chapter 9 (Transportation) of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan and Statewide Planning Goal 12. The
findings in response to those goals and policies are incorporated by reference.
Objective 1. Maintain, protect, and enhance the public and private multimodal transportation
investments in the GLIS, including rail and marine terminal facilities, to ensure its continued viability as
a major center for the import and export of industrial products in the state of Oregon.
301. Finding:  The 2035 Comprehensive Plan defines the verb “maintain” to mean keep what you have;
conserve; preserve; continue. The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do they
allow for new incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes will continue to provide the same
opportunities for investment to provide for the continued movement of goods through the GLIS.
The FFTZ amendments do not amend the Citywide System Plan or the Transportation System Plan,
therefore the City continues to plan for public infrastructure investments in the area to provide for
the continued viability as a major industrial center in Oregon.
The City Council interprets the verb “enhance”, which is not defined in the 2035 Comprehensive
Plan, to mean to intensify or improve. The FFTZ regulations apply to only one type of business that
makes up a minority part of the businesses found in GLIS. The limits on expansion of storage
capacity at fossil fuel terminals are mitigated by designating existing fossil fuel terminals as a
limited use that allows the terminals to maintain, preserve and continue to operate and improve
their intermodal facilities to provide for the continued movement of fossil fuels through the GLIS
and supports opportunities for enhancement through exceptions, such as aviation or renewable
fuels. Finally, even though transloading facilities are a defining characteristic of a Bulk Fossil Fuel
Terminal, the ordinance only limits new fossil fuel storage tank capacity and does not regulate
transloading facilities, docks or pipelines – facilities that are key components of the multimodal
freight transportation system. Existing FFTs and other industrial uses can make investments in
multimodal freight facilities.
Objective 2. Maintain operational characteristics on roads and at intersections that support truck
movements and industrial economic growth, while accommodating traffic, transit, and emergency
access needs.
302. Finding:  The Council finds that this policy applies to functional classifications as designated in the
adopted TSP. The FFTZ amendments do not change the functional classification of any roads in the
GLIS. These regulations apply to only one type of business that makes up a minority part of the
businesses found in GLIS. The FFTZ amendments do not amend the Citywide System Plan or the
Transportation System Plan, therefore the operational characteristics of the roads and intersections
continue to support truck movements and industrial economic growth.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Objective 3. Minimize traffic conflicts between industrial and nonindustrial uses.
303. Finding:  The City Council interprets the verb “minimize” to mean to reduce something to the
smallest possible amount. Minimizing traffic conflicts is a function of transportation policy. The
FFTZ amendments do not change any transportation policies, including the functional classification
of any roads in the GLIS. The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do they allow for
new incompatible nonindustrial land uses that could be expected increase traffic conflicts.
Objective 4. Manage congestion on highways and roads within the GLIS through regional and area-
wide systems planning and maximize the efficiency of transportation facilities for all modes of travel,
with the participation of private industry.
304. Finding:  The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do they allow for new
incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes will continue to provide the same opportunities
for investment in the GLIS. The FFTZ amendments do not amend the Citywide System Plan or the
Transportation System Plan, therefore the City continues to plan for public infrastructure
investments in the area to manage congestion on highways and roads within the GLIS.
The City Council interprets the verb “maximize”, which is not defined in the 2035 Comprehensive
Plan, to mean to make the best use of. These regulations apply to only one type of business that
makes up a minority part of the businesses found in GLIS. The limits on expansion of storage
capacity at fossil fuel terminals is mitigated by designating existing fossil fuel terminals as a limited
use that allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in other types of upgrades to all
modes of travel. The FFTZ regulations allow terminals to maximize the efficiency of their private
transportation facilities (docks and pipelines) by providing expanded opportunities through
exceptions, such as for aviation or renewable fuels, to the storage capacity restrictions. The
ordinance does not regulate transloading facilities, docks or pipelines – facilities that are key
components of the multimodal freight transportation system. Existing FFTs and other industrial
uses can make investments in multimodal freight facilities.
Testimony from the Portland Business Alliance et al., the Working Water Coalition, and the Western
States Petroleum Association raised the concern that the ordinance would force fuels to be
transported by truck and increase vehicle miles travelled and emissions. The City Council finds that
this unsupported assertion provides no details or explanation as to how this ordinance will force a
change in transportation modes. There is no explanation or evidence on future demand, pipeline
capacity utilization, or storage tank utilization or how or why truck traffic would increase. BPS staff
provided evidence in the Council presentation and the written record that demonstrates that there
is a reasonable expectation that the demand for fossil fuels will be flat and that the existing FFT
storage capacity, with the allowed exceptions, will continue to meet the future demand for fossil
fuels.
Objective 5. Develop alternative transportation options for employees of the GLIS, including transit,
carpools, bicycling, and walking to reduce parking needs, vehicle emissions, and congestion levels.
305. Finding:  The City Council interprets this policy to focus on the commute modes of employees of the
GLIS. Developing alternative transportation options is a function of transportation policy. The FFTZ
amendments do not change any transportation policies, therefore, this policy does not apply.
Further, employment at FFTs is a small share of the overall employment of the GLIS. The limits on
expansion of storage capacity at fossil fuel terminals is mitigated by designating existing fossil fuel
terminals as a limited use that allows the terminals to continue to operate, which can maintain
these employment levels, which can maintain ridership for the existing transit service. The FFTZ
amendments do not amend the Citywide System Plan or the Transportation System Plan, therefore
the City continues to plan for public infrastructure investments in the area to support this objective.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

Objective 6. Locate safe pedestrian and bicycle routes within the GLIS that minimize conflicts with
industrial traffic. Improve pedestrian and bicycle connections to nearby residential areas to reduce
congestion levels and auto emissions, preserve capacity of the street system, and reduce parking
needs.
306. Finding:  The City Council interprets this policy to focus on the investment in pedestrian and bicycle
routes in the GLIS, which is a function of transportation policy. The FFTZ amendments do not
amend the Citywide System Plan or the Transportation System Plan, therefore this policy does not
apply.
Objective 7. Recognize the role of NW Vaughn Street as an important multimodal access route to the
Guild’s Lake Industrial Sanctuary and Northwest Portland.
307. Finding:  The City Council interprets this policy to focus on the functional classification of NW
Vaughn Street, which is a function of transportation policy. The FFTZ amendments do not amend
the Citywide System Plan or the Transportation System Plan, therefore this policy does not apply.
Policy 3: Land Use
Preserve and protect land primarily for industrial uses, and minimize land use conflicts in the Guild’s
Lake Industrial Sanctuary. Allow compatible nonindustrial uses within the GLIS that provide retail and
business services primarily to support industrial employees and businesses.
308. Finding: The City Council interprets this policy and the objectives to apply to the GLISP area as
whole and not to individual businesses or sectors of business. The City Council interprets this policy
to mean that the most effective way to preserve and protect industrial uses is to minimize land use
conflicts by limiting nonindustrial uses, which is the reason why the City Council applied the Prime
Industrial Overlay Zone to the GLIS as part of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan adoption. The Prime
Industrial Overlay Zone restricts non-industrial uses, such as self-service storage and major event
entertainment, that are allowed in the industrial base zones. The FFTZ amendments maintain
industrial zoning protections because the ordinance does not amend the Prime Industrial Overlay
Zone, the GLIS Plan District, or the Zoning Map where they are applied. The FFTZ amendments do
not include map changes, nor do they allow for new incompatible land uses, therefore, with these
changes, the GLIS will continue to be used primarily for industrial uses and land use conflicts will be
minimized.
Objective 1. Preserve the overall industrial character of the Guild’s Lake Industrial Sanctuary.
309. Finding: The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do they allow for new
incompatible land uses, therefore, the overall industrial character of the GLIS will be preserved.
Objective 2. Preserve the physical continuity of the area designated as Industrial Sanctuary within the
Guild’s Lake Industrial Sanctuary.
310. Finding: The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, including to the plan district
boundaries, therefore, with the physical continuity of the GLIS is preserved.
Objective 3. Minimize conflicts between industrial and nonindustrial land uses.
311. Finding: The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do they allow for new
incompatible land uses, therefore, the GLIS will continue to be used primarily for industrial uses and
land use conflicts will be minimized.
Objective 4. Prohibit new residential uses within the GLIS.
312. Finding: The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do they allow for new
incompatible land uses, therefore, residential uses within the GLIS will continue to be prohibited.
Objective 5. Allow the provision of support services to employees and businesses in the GLIS to reduce
trips outside of the GLIS.
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

313. Finding: The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do they allow for new
nonindustrial land uses, therefore, this objective does not apply.
Objective 6. Encourage industrial businesses to locate their accessory offices and showrooms along
NW Vaughn Street.
314. Finding: The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do they allow for new
nonindustrial land uses.  Additionally, there are no FFTs located on NW Vaughn, therefore, this
objective does not apply.
Objective 7. Preserve the GLIS’s Willamette River waterfront as a location for river-dependent and
river-related industrial uses.
315. Finding: The existing fossil fuel terminals are designated as a limited use that allows the terminals to
continue to operate and invest in upgrades, including their waterfront facilities. The FFTZ
amendments do not include map changes, nor do they allow for new nonindustrial land uses,
therefore, the Willamette River waterfront is preserved as a location for river-dependent and river-
related industrial uses.
Objective 8. Recognize the Willamette River as a valuable economic, transportation, natural and
recreational resource for the entire city. Coordinate GLIS Plan policies and implementation measures
with ongoing and future citywide planning efforts that address the significance of the river and the
city’s industrial land supply.
316. Finding: The verb “recognize” is defined in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan as to acknowledge and
treat as valid. The 2035 Comprehensive Plan defines “coordinate” as work together with others
toward a common goal; collaborate. The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do
they allow for new nonindustrial land uses, therefore, the city’s industrial land supply is maintained.
The FFTZ amendments do not include changes that impact the economic, transportation, natural,
and recreational resource function of the Willamette River. The waterfront is preserved as a
location for river-dependent and river-related industrial uses. Finally, the ordinance does not
regulate transloading facilities, docks or pipelines – facilities that are key components of utilizing
the Willamette River as part of the multimodal freight transportation system. As noted in the
findings above, the FFTZ amendments are consistent with the policies 3.70, 3.72, 4.82, and 9.36 of
the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, and the findings in response to those policies are incorporated by
reference.
Objective 9. The industrial character and economic viability of the Guild’s Lake Industrial Sanctuary
must continue to be the priority when considering the public need for expanded access to the
Willamette River. Design and implement any greenway enhancements along the river so as to avoid or
minimize negative impacts on industrial operations.
317. Finding: The FFTZ amendments do not include changes to the greenway enhancement
requirements in Chapter 33.440, therefore this objective does not apply.
Objective 10. Contribute to the maintenance and enhancement of all of Northwest Portland as a
diverse urban environment that includes opportunities for housing, commercial services, and
industrial employment in relatively close proximity.
318. Finding: The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do they allow for new
nonindustrial land uses, therefore, the diverse urban environment of Northwest Portland is
maintained.
The City Council interprets the verb “enhance”, which is not defined in the 2035 Comprehensive
Plan, to mean to intensify or improve. The FFTZ regulations apply to only one type of business that
makes up a minority part of the industrial businesses found in GLIS. The limits on expansion of
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

storage capacity at fossil fuel terminals is mitigated by designating existing fossil fuel terminals as a
limited use that allows the terminals to maintain, preserve and continue to operate and improve
their intermodal facilities to provide for the continued movement of fossil fuels through the GLIS
and supports opportunities for enhancement through a number of exceptions, such as aviation or
renewable fuels, to the storage capacity restrictions; therefore the FFTZ changes contribute
maintain and enhancing the industrial employment in this part of Northwest Portland.

Part V.  Zoning Code Amendment Criteria
33.835.040 Approval Criteria
A. Amendments to the zoning code. Text amendments to the zoning code must be found to be
consistent with the Comprehensive Plan, Urban Growth Management Functional Plan, and the
Statewide Planning Goals. In addition, the amendments must be consistent with the intent or purpose
statement for the base zone, overlay zone, plan district, use and development, or land division
regulation where the amendment is proposed, and any plan associated with the regulations. The
creation of a new plan district is subject to the approval criteria stated in 33.500.050.
319. Finding:  The findings in this exhibit demonstrate how the FFTZ amendments are consistent with
the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, the Urban Growth Management Functional Plan, and the Statewide
Planning Goals.
The City Council interprets this criterion to require the FFTZ amendments show consistency.  The
Council finds that “consistent” means “the subject meets the requirements of, satisfies, or adheres
to the regulations, mandate, or plan listed in the goal or policy.” The City Council has applied all
applicable policies and the findings in this exhibit demonstrate how the FFTZ amendments to the
zoning code are, on balance, consistent with the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, the Urban Growth
Management Functional Plan, and with the Statewide Planning Goals.
Council finds that this criterion operates in conjunction with Comprehensive Plan Policy 1.10 which
requires that amendments to the Comprehensive Plan’s supporting documents, such as the Zoning
Code, must “comply” with the Comprehensive Plan.” “Comply” means “that amendments must be
evaluated against the Comprehensive Plan’s applicable goals and policies and on balance be equally
or more supportive of the Comprehensive Plan as a whole than the existing language or
designation.”
The City Council finds that a proposed amendment is equally supportive when it is on its face
directly supported by goals and policies in the Plan.  The City Council finds that an amendment is
more supportive of the Comprehensive Plan when the amendment will further advance goals and
policies, particularly those that are aspirational in nature.  The City Council finds that the policy
requires consideration as to whether amendments are equally or more supportive of the Plan as a
whole.  The City Council finds that amendments do not need to be equally or more supportive with
individual goals and policies, but rather amendments must be equally or more supportive of the
entire Comprehensive Plan.  Therefore, the City Council finds that there may be instances where
specific goals and policies are not supported by the amendments but still the amendment is equally
or more supportive of the entire Comprehensive Plan when considered cumulatively. The City
Council finds that there is no precise mathematical equation for determining when the Plan as a
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

whole is supported but rather such consideration requires City Council discretion in evaluating the
competing interests and objectives of the plan.
Applying both the Zoning Code criterion and Policy 1.10 together, as discussed above, the Council
finds that the amendments are consistent with the Comprehensive Plan, Urban Growth
Management Functional Plan, and Statewide Planning Goals.  Additionally, as discussed below, the
Council finds that the FFTZ amendments are consistent with the intent or purpose statement for
the base zones and the GLISP, the only plan associated with the regulations.
In considering the proposed amendments on balance, the City Council finds that the City Council
has considered applicable policies to determine that this ordinance on the whole complies with the
2035 Comprehensive Plan and on balance is equally or more supportive of the goals and policies of
the 2035 Comprehensive Plan than the current regulations. In reaching this conclusion, City Council
has weighed and balanced competing policy directions.
In particular, the Council finds that Goal 4.D with Policies 4.79 and 4.80, requires evaluating and
reducing risk to people and property from natural hazards.  The FFTZ amendments further these
goals and policies because by limiting the risks of storing large volumes of hazardous materials in an
area with high susceptibility to an earthquake. Large fossil fuel terminals represent a risk to people,
property and the natural environments that the City Council finds as a compelling reason to limit
future risk by limiting the size of new facilities and prohibit the expansion of existing facilities.
Continuing to allow an unlimited increase in storage capacity at FFTs in a high risk area would be
less supportive of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan than adopting the FFTZ amendments
The City Council further finds that Policy 6.48 provides direction to limit fossil fuel terminals to what
is necessary to serve the region. The City Council recognizes that Portland’s fossil fuel terminals
handle 90 percent of the fossil fuel for the State of Oregon and Southwest Washington. BPS
presented evidence that national petroleum consumption forecast out to 2050 is essentially flat,
which is a continuation of historic trends in Oregon and Washington, during a period of a thriving
economy. In addition, ODOT is forecasting a decline in motor fuel consumption over the medium
term to 2029. The more recent cargo forecasts project a modest growth in volumes, but those
volumes do not exceed the historic peak volumes that were handled by the Portland terminals. No
other evidence of future demand for fossil fuels was submitted in testimony. Therefore, the City
Council finds that the fossil fuel storage capacity at the existing FFTs is sufficient to meet future
needs. These changes support the retention of existing fossil fuel terminals by designating them as
a limited use that allows the terminals to continue to operate and invest in upgrades and supports
opportunities for growth through exceptions, such as aviation or renewable fuels. Further, the use
limitations provide flexibility to FFTs to replace and reconfigure existing storage tank capacity to
increase safety. In addition, limiting storage capacity to the existing facilities reduces risk from a
major earthquake, which outweighs the policy direction to provide capacity to accommodate any
potential future increase in fossil fuel consumption, in part, because continuing to consolidate fossil
fuel storage capacity in Portland is counter to resiliency principles that emphasize redundancy and
distributed facilities.
At the same time, the City Council finds that Goal 6.C with Policies 6.20 and 6.36, among others,
provide for the retention and growth of businesses, especially those in the traded sector. However,
the City Council interprets these policies apply to the economy in general, rather than specific types
of business. These changes and restrictions only apply to a narrowly defined new land use category,
Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminals, and do not have a significant effect on the other allowed uses in
industrial and employment zones.  There are no changes proposed to the Comprehensive Plan or
Zoning Map that will impact the overall size or intensity of development in the industrial and
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

employment areas of Portland. These amendments are narrowly constructed to apply to one class
of businesses that make up a small portion of the city, regional and state economy. Further, these
regulations only limit future expansion of these fossil fuel terminals, with some key exceptions, and
designate these businesses as a limited use that allows their continued operation.
Guilds Lake Industrial Sanctuary (GLIS) Plan policies provide direction to maintain, protect and
enhance businesses in the sanctuary. This plan was adopted in 2001 and does not address the need
for resiliency in a high and medium liquefaction susceptibility area. The City Council interprets these
policies to apply to the GLIS as a whole and not individual businesses. The City Council interprets
the legislative intent of the GLISP is to maintain the area as an industrial sanctuary and to prohibit
incompatible land uses.  The FFTZ amendments do not include map changes, nor do they allow for
new incompatible land uses that could undermine the viability of the industrial sanctuary. These
regulations apply to only one type of business that makes up a minority part of the businesses
found in GLIS. The remaining industrial uses to continue to operate under current regulations. The
impact of the limits on fossil fuel terminals is mitigated by designating existing fossil fuel terminals
as a limited use that allows the terminals to continue to operate and make upgrades and supports
limited enhancement through exceptions to the fossil fuel storage capacity restrictions.
Further, the Council finds that the FFTZ amendments amend the allowed uses in all of the base
zones. The City Council finds that because the amendments prohibit FFTs in the open space,
residential, commercial/mixed use, and campus institution base zones that these amendments are
consistent with the purpose statements of those zones.
The City Council finds that because the FFTZ amendments do not amend overlay zones or plan
districts, or land division regulations, and therefore these purpose statements do not apply.
The purpose statements for the Employment and Industrial Zones and the Use Categories that are
amended by this ordinance are addressed below.
No new plan district has been proposed, therefore the criteria in 33.500.050 do not apply.
Testimony by Zenith Energy implied that Resolution 37168 should be considered additional
approval criteria. The City Council rejects this interpretation. Resolutions provide guidance on
future City actions, such as directing BPS to develop proposed code changes to advance the
resolution. However, in the context of making a legislative land use decision (amending the Zoning
Code), the 2035 Comprehensive Plan and Title 33 (Planning and Zoning) establish the procedures
and approval criteria for making these decisions. Neither the 2035 Comprehensive Plan nor Title 33
include references to include other resolutions that have not been incorporated into the 2035
Comprehensive Plan goals and policies.
Part VI.  Zoning Code Purpose Statements
33.140 Employment and Industrial Zones
33.140.010 General Purpose of the Zones
The employment and industrial zones are for areas of the City that are reserved for industrial uses and
for areas that have a mix of uses with a strong industrial orientation. The zones reflect the diversity of
industrial and business areas in the City. The zones differ in the mix of allowed uses, the allowed
intensity of development, and the development standards. The regulations promote areas which consist
of uses and developments which will support the economic viability of the specific zoning district and of
the City. The regulations protect the health, safety and welfare of the public, address area character,
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

and address environmental concerns. In addition, the regulations provide certainty to property owners,
developers, and neighbors about the limits of what is allowed.
320. Finding:  The City Council interprets this purpose statement to require that the employment and
industrial zones focus on a mix of industrial uses in general, but that it does not require every type
of industrial use, especially when considering the protection of health and safety of the public and
the environment. The FFTZ amendments do not allow for new incompatible land uses, therefore,
these changes are consistent with the intent to allow a mix of uses with a strong industrial
orientation in Portland’s industrial districts. These regulations apply to only one type of use that
makes up a minority part of the uses found in Portland’s industrial districts. The remaining
industrial uses continue to operate under current regulations. The FFTZ amendments protect the
health, safety and welfare of the public and address environmental concerns by reducing the risk
associated with a major earthquake by ensuring that the situation does not get worse by continuing
to allow the unlimited increase in fossil fuel terminal storage tank capacity in a high risk area. The
regulations provide certainty by designating existing FFTs as a limited use, which allows the
terminals to continue to operate and invest in facilities that reduce the risks and improve their
ability to withstand a major earthquake.
33.920 Description of Use Categories
33.920.010 Purpose
This Chapter classifies land uses and activities into use categories on the basis of common functional,
product, or physical characteristics. Characteristics include the type and amount of activity, the type of
customers or residents, how goods or services are sold or delivered, and certain site factors. The use
categories provide a systematic basis for assignment of present and future uses to zones. The decision
to allow or prohibit the use categories in the various zones is based on the goals and policies of the
Comprehensive Plan.
321. Finding:  The FFTZ amendments create a new use category – Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminals – based on
the function, the type of product handled or produced, the type and amount of activity, and how
the goods are sold or delivered.  The use category has been assigned to the base zones. The
designation of a prohibited or limited use is based on the findings in this exhibit that demonstrate
how, on balance, the designation is consistent with the goals and policies of 2035 Comprehensive
Plan.
33.531 Guild’s Lake Industrial Sanctuary Plan District
33.531.010 Purpose
The Guild’s Lake Industrial Sanctuary plan district fosters the preservation and growth of this premier
industrial area adjacent to Portland’s central city. The plan district’s large number of well-established
industrial firms are dependent on the area’s multimodal transportation system, including marine, rail,
and trucking facilities, and on the ability of area streets to accommodate truck movements. Because of
its proximity to inner-city neighborhoods with high concentrations of commercial and residential uses,
the Guild’s Lake Industrial Sanctuary is particularly vulnerable to impacts from, and redevelopment to,
nonindustrial uses. The provisions of the plan district recognize that the displacement of industrial uses
by inappropriate nonindustrial uses potentially threatens the integrity of this district and investments in
public and private infrastructure. The provisions of this chapter protect the area from incompatible uses
which threaten the district's integrity, stability and vitality and compromise its transportation system.
This chapter also includes provisions to ensure a more pedestrian- and transit-oriented streetscape
along NW Vaughn Street and an improved interface with the mixed-use neighborhood to the south.
322. Finding:  The City Council finds that the Guild’s Lake Industrial Sanctuary (GLIS) Plan seeks to protect
and promote the area’s long-term economic viability as an industrial district for a broad variety of
Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments
Exhibit A Findings of Fact Report

industrial land uses and businesses. The FFTZ amendments maintain industrial zoning protections
because the ordinance does not include changes to the Prime Industrial Overlay Zone, the GLIS Plan
District, or to the Zoning Map where they are applied. The FFTZ amendments do not include map
changes, nor do they allow for new incompatible land uses, therefore, these changes will continue
to provide an adequate industrial land base for employment growth. The City Council finds that the
purpose statement does not require that every industrial use is allowed or allowed to have
unlimited growth. These regulations apply to only one type of business that makes up a minority
part of the businesses found in GLIS. The limits on expansion of storage capacity at fossil fuel
terminals is mitigated by designating existing fossil fuel terminals as a limited use that allows the
terminals to continue to operate and invest in other types of upgrades.
As noted above, the findings in response to Statewide Planning Goal 9, the goals and policies of
Chapter 6 (Economic Development) of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, and the Guilds Lake Industrial
Sanctuary Plan are incorporated by reference. Therefore, FFTZ amendments are consistent with the
purpose of the plan district.

City of Portland, Oregon
December 14, 2016
Ordinance No. 188142
Fossil Fuel
Terminal Zoning
Amendments

Exhibit B
Remand Report
As Amended

City of Portland, Oregon

December 18, 2019

December 18, 2019             Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report                      Page 2

Page 3                       Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report            December 18, 2019

Proposed Action
The City of Portland is considering the re-adoption of the Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments.  On
December 14, 2016, the Portland City Council adopted Ordinance No. 188142 which amended the
Zoning Code to create a new land use category (Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminals) with development standards
to regulate the storage tank capacity. The amendments prohibited expansion of storage tank capacity at
existing fuel terminals and limited new terminal development to 2 million gallons of storage tank
capacity. The storage of coal at Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminals was prohibited.

The amendments allowed for the continued operation of existing terminals as a limited use in the
industrial and employment zones.  Terminals can continue to operate and invest in seismic and safety
upgrades.  The prohibition on the expansion of storage capacity included exceptions to the storage
capacity limits to address issues identified in previous City Council resolutions, particularly for aviation
fuels and renewable fuels.

Ordinance No. 188142 was appealed to the Oregon Land Use Board of Appeals (LUBA).  In Columbia
Pacific Building Trades Council v. City of Portland, LUBA Case No. 2017-001, LUBA reversed the
Ordinance holding that the City’s decision was unconstitutional; failed to demonstrate compliance with
the Guild’s Lake Industrial Sanctuary Plan (GLISP) and Statewide Planning Goal 12; and was not
supported by an adequate factual base.

LUBA’s decision was appealed to the Oregon Court of Appeals.  In Columbia Pacific Building Trades
Council v. City of Portland, 289 Or App 739 (2018), the court reversed LUBA’s decision in part and
affirmed in part.  The Court found that the amendments are constitutional, and the City adequately
demonstrated compliance with Goal 12.

The Court of Appeals decision was appealed to the Oregon Supreme Court.  The Supreme Court denied
review in Columbia Pacific Building Trades Council v. City of Portland, 363 Or 390 (2018).

On October 5, 2018, LUBA remanded Ordinance No. 188142 for City Council to demonstrate compliance
with GLISP and demonstrate that the decision was supported by an adequate factual base.

The City intends to readopt the Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments to comply with LUBA’s Order.
The Zoning Code amendments are similar to the changes adopted in 2016, except for a few minor
adjustments to reconcile the Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments with subsequent changes to the
Zoning Code that have been adopted since 2016.

On November 20, 2019, the City Council held a public hearing on the consideration of additional
evidence to ensure that the amendments are supported by an adequate factual base.  Additionally, the
findings will demonstrate that the amendments comply with the goals and policies in the 2035
Comprehensive Plan, which was adopted subsequent to the initial adoption of Ordinance No. 188142.

December 18, 2019             Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report                      Page 4

Timeline
In Resolutions 36959 and 36962, adopted in 2012, the City Council expressed opposition to coal trains
traveling through Portland until a programmatic, comprehensive and area-wide Environmental Impact
Statement and comprehensive Health Impact Assessment are completed.

The City’s 2015 Climate Action Plan (adopted by Resolution 37135) identifies the need to establish a
“fossil fuel export policy that considers lifecycle emissions, safety, economics, neighborhood livability
and environmental impacts” (Climate Action Plan, action 3G, page 69). The City committed in its 2015
Climate Action Plan to advancing policy and programs to reduce local fossil fuel use both in the City’s
own operations and through community-wide initiatives.

Resolution 37168, adopted November 12, 2015, expressed the City Council’s opposition to the
“expansion of infrastructure whose primary purpose is transporting or storing fossil fuels in or through
Portland or adjacent waterways.” It also expressed the Council’s intent not to restrict improvements in
safety, efficiency, or seismic resilience; the provision of service directly to end users; or infrastructure
that will accelerate the transition to non-fossil fuel energy sources. The City Council also expressed
support for accelerating the transition to non-fossil fuel energy sources. As part of that transition, the
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality (ODEQ) is implementing the Oregon Clean Fuels Program,
which requires a 10 percent reduction in average carbon intensity by 2025. Fuels that could be used to
achieve the standards include ethanol, biodiesel, electricity, hydrogen, natural gas, propane, and biogas,
which may require additional storage capacity.  In order to facilitate implementation of the Clean Fuels
Program, non-fossil fuel storage tanks are not subject to the capacity limits.

Portland’s existing fossil fuel terminals
Portland’s industrial districts are Oregon’s largest seaport, rail hub and truck distribution center.  The
Northwest Industrial District in Portland is also the end of the Olympic Pipeline, which supplies most of
Oregon’s petroleum fuels from Puget Sound refineries.  The ten petroleum terminals located in
Northwest Portland are the gateway distribution facilities serving Oregon and Southern Washington
markets.  Additionally, NW Natural’s GasCo terminal provides peak-consumption storage of natural gas
for the region.  In Northwest Portland, these “tank farm” storage facilities have direct access to pipeline,
deep-water port, railroad and truck route infrastructure.

Page 5                       Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report            December 18, 2019

Figure 1. An example of petroleum terminals located in the Willbridge area of NW Portland.

December 18, 2019             Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report                      Page 6

Figure 2. Existing fossil fuel terminals in Northwest Portland

Page 7                       Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report            December 18, 2019

Figure 3. Estimated storage capacity at existing fossil fuel terminals
Operator Facility type
Site
acres Existing Storage capacity
Petroleum fuels     barrels gallons
Chevron Petroleum terminal 21 1,600,000 67,200,000
Kinder Morgan Willbridge  Petroleum terminal 33 1,551,000 65,142,000
Zenith (Arc Logistics)  Petroleum/crude oil 39 1,518,200 63,764,400
NuStar Petroleum terminal 22 1,191,000 50,022,000
McCall Oil Petroleum terminal 19 930,000 39,060,000
Conoco Phillips Petroleum terminal 21 760,000 31,920,000
BP West Coast  Petroleum terminal 18 601,500 25,263,000
Kinder Morgan Linnton  Petroleum terminal 13 420,000 17,640,000
Equilon/Shell Petroleum terminal 13 400,000 16,800,000
Pacific Terminal Services Petroleum terminal 2 278,000 11,676,000
Total   9,249,700 388,487,400
Gaseous fuels     Dth
NW Natural GasCo LNG plant/terminal 41 7,500,000

Terminology:  bbls = barrels, Dth = decatherms, LNG = liquified natural gas
Sources: Oregon DEQ for petroleum tank data.  NW Natural 2014 Integrated Resource Plan for existing
capacity

December 18, 2019             Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report                      Page 8

Page 9                       Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report            December 18, 2019

Zoning code changes

This section of the report specifies the adopted code language, along with code commentary pages that
clarify expected implementation.  The section is formatted to facilitate readability, showing adopted
code changes on the right-hand pages and related code commentary on the facing left-hand pages.

Commentary

December 18, 2019                Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report               Page 10

Table 100-1 Open Space Zone Primary Uses

The amendments to this table reflect changes to prohibit Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminals in
the Open Space base zone.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
Page 11               Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report          December 18, 2019

Table 100-1
Open Space Zone Primary Uses
Use Categories OS Zone
Residential Categories
Household Living N
Group Living N
Commercial Categories
Retail Sales And Service  CU [1]
Office N
Quick Vehicle Servicing  N
Vehicle Repair N
Commercial Parking N
Self-Service Storage N
Commercial Outdoor Recreation CU
Major Event Entertainment N
Industrial Categories
Manufacturing And Production CU [6]
Warehouse And Freight Movement  N
Wholesale Sales N
Industrial Service N
Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminal N
Railroad Yards N
Waste-Related N
Institutional Categories
Basic Utilities L/CU [5]
Community Service CU [4]
Parks And Open Areas L/CU [2]
Schools CU
Colleges N
Medical Centers N
Religious Institutions N
Daycare  CU
Other Categories
Agriculture L[7]
Aviation And Surface Passenger Terminals N
Detention Facilities N
Mining CU
Radio Frequency Transmission Facilities L/CU [3]
Rail Lines And Utility Corridors CU
Y = Yes, Allowed  L = Allowed, But Special Limitations  CU = Conditional Use Review Required
N = No, Prohibited
Notes:
• The use categories are described in Chapter 33.920.
• Regulations that correspond to the bracketed numbers [ ] are stated in 33.100.100.B.
• Specific uses and developments may also be subject to regulations in the 200s series of chapters.

Commentary

December 18, 2019                Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report               Page 12
Table 110-1 Single-Dwelling Zone Primary Uses

The amendments to this table reflect changes to prohibit Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminals in
single-dwelling base zones.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
Page 13               Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report          December 18, 2019

Table 110-1
Single-Dwelling Zone Primary Uses

Use Categories

RF

R20

R10

R7

R5

R2.5
Residential Categories
Household Living Y Y Y Y Y Y
Group Living CU CU CU CU CU CU
Commercial Categories
Retail Sales And Service  CU [10] CU [10] CU [10] CU [10] CU [10] CU [10]
Office N N N N N N
Quick Vehicle Servicing  N N N N N N
Vehicle Repair N N N N N N
Commercial Parking N N N N N N
Self-Service Storage N N N N N N
Commercial Outdoor Recreation N N N N N N
Major Event Entertainment N N N N N N
Industrial Categories
Manufacturing And Production CU [6] N N N N N
Warehouse And Freight Movement  N N N N N N
Wholesale Sales N N N N N N
Industrial Service N N N N N N
Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminal N N N N N N
Railroad Yards N N N N N N
Waste-Related N N N N N N
Institutional Categories
Basic Utilities L/CU [5] L/CU [5] L/CU [5] L/CU [5] L/CU [5] L/CU [5]
Community Service CU [1] CU [1] CU [1] CU [1] CU [1] CU [1]
Parks And Open Areas L/CU [2] L/CU [2] L/CU [2] L/CU [2] L/CU [2] L/CU [2]
Schools CU CU CU CU CU CU
Colleges CU CU CU CU CU CU
Medical Centers CU CU CU CU CU CU
Religious Institutions CU CU CU CU CU CU
Daycare L/CU [3] L/CU [3] L/CU [3] L/CU [3] L/CU [3] L/CU [3]
Other Categories
Agriculture L [7] L [7] L/CU [8] L/CU [8] L [9]  L [9]
Aviation And Surface Passenger
Terminals

CU

N

N

N

N

N
Detention Facilities N N N N N N
Mining CU N N N N N
Radio Frequency Transmission
Facilities
L/CU [4] L/CU [4] L/CU [4] L/CU [4] L/CU [4] L/CU [4]
Railroad Lines And Utility Corridors CU CU CU CU CU CU
Y = Yes, Allowed
CU = Conditional Use Review Required
L = Allowed, But Special Limitations
N = No, Prohibited
Notes:
• The use categories are described in Chapter 33.920.
• Regulations that correspond to the bracketed numbers [ ] are stated in 33.110.100.B.
• Specific uses and developments may also be subject to regulations in the 200s series of chapters.

Commentary

December 18, 2019                Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report               Page 14

Table 120-1 Multi-Dwelling Zone Primary Uses

The amendments to this table reflect changes to prohibit Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminals in
the multi-dwelling base zones.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
Page 15               Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report          December 18, 2019

Table 120-1
Multi-Dwelling Zone Primary Uses

Use Categories

R3

R2

R1

RH

RX

RMP
Residential Categories
Household Living Y Y Y Y Y Y
Group Living L/CU [1] L/CU [1] L/CU [1] L/CU [1] L/CU [1] N]
Commercial Categories
Retail Sales And Service  L [12] L [12] L [12] CU[2] L/CU [3] L [13]
Office N N N CU[2] L/CU [3] N
Quick Vehicle Servicing  N N N N N N
Vehicle Repair N N N N N N
Commercial Parking N N N N CU [4] N
Self-Service Storage N N N N N N
Commercial Outdoor Recreation N N N N N N
Major Event Entertainment N N N N N CU
Industrial Categories
Manufacturing And Production N N N N N CU
Warehouse And Freight Movement  N N N N N N
Wholesale Sales N N N N N N
Industrial Service N N N N N CU
Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminal N N N N N N
Railroad Yards N N N N N N
Waste-Related N N N N N N
Institutional Categories
Basic Utilities L/CU [10] L/CU [10] L/CU [10] L/CU [10] L/CU [10] L/CU [10]
Community Service L/CU [6] L/CU [6] L/CU [6] L/CU [6] L/CU [5] L/CU [6]
Parks And Open Areas L/CU [7] L/CU [7] L/CU [7] Y Y L/CU [7]
Schools CU CU CU CU L/CU [5] CU
Colleges CU CU CU CU CU CU
Medical Centers CU CU CU CU CU CU]
Religious Institutions CU CU CU CU CU CU
Daycare L/CU [8] L/CU [8] L/CU [8] L/CU [8] Y L/CU [8]
Other Categories
Agriculture L [11] L [11] L [11] L [11] L [11] L [11]
Aviation And Surface Passenger
Terminals
N N N N N N
Detention Facilities N N N N N N
Mining N N N N N N
Radio Frequency Transmission Facilities L/CU [9] L/CU [9] L/CU [9] L/CU [9] L/CU [9] L/CU [9]
Rail Lines And Utility Corridors CU CU CU CU CU CU
Y = Yes, Allowed
CU = Conditional Use Review Required
L = Allowed, But Special Limitations
N = No, Prohibited
Notes:
• The use categories are described in Chapter 33.920.
• Regulations that correspond to the bracketed numbers [ ] are stated in 33.120.100.B.
• Specific uses and developments may also be subject to regulations in the 200s series of chapters.

Commentary

December 18, 2019                Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report               Page 16
Table 130-1 Commercial/Mixed Use Zone Primary Uses

The amendments to this table reflect changes to prohibit Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminals in
the commercial/mixed use base zones.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
Page 17               Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report          December 18, 2019

Table 130-1
Commercial/Mixed Use Zone Primary Uses
Use Categories CR CM1 CM2 CM3 CE  CX
Residential Categories
Household Living Y Y Y Y Y Y
Group Living L/CU [1] L/CU [1] L/CU [1] L/CU [1] L/CU [1] L/CU [1]
Commercial Categories
Retail Sales And Service  L [2] L [2] Y Y Y Y
Office L [2] L [2] Y Y Y Y
Quick Vehicle Servicing  N L [2] L [2] L [2] Y  N
Vehicle Repair N N Y Y Y  L [5]
Commercial Parking  N N L [9] L [9] Y  CU [9]
Self-Service Storage N N N L [4] L [4] L [4]
Commercial Outdoor Recreation N N Y Y Y Y
Major Event Entertainment N N CU CU CU  Y
Industrial Categories
Manufacturing and Production N L/CU [3,5] L/CU [3,5] L/CU [3,5] L/CU [3,5] L/CU [3,5]
Warehouse and Freight Movement  N N N L [3,5] L [3,5] N
Wholesale Sales N N L [3,5] L [3,5] L [3,5] L [3,5]
Industrial Service N N CU [3,5] CU [3,5] CU [3,5] CU [3,5]
Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminal N N N N N N
Railroad Yards N N N N N N
Waste-Related N N N N N N
Institutional Categories
Basic Utilities Y/CU [8] Y/CU [8] Y/CU [8] Y/CU [8] Y/CU [8] Y/CU [8]
Community Service L/CU [6] L/CU [6] L/CU [6] L/CU [6] L/CU [6] L/CU [6]
Parks and Open Areas Y Y Y Y Y Y
Schools Y Y Y Y Y Y
Colleges N Y Y Y Y Y
Medical Centers N Y Y Y Y Y
Religious Institutions Y Y Y Y Y Y
Daycare  Y Y Y Y Y Y
Other Categories
Agriculture L [10] L [10] L/CU [11] L/CU [12] L/CU [12] L/CU [11]
Aviation and Surface Passenger
Terminals
N N N N CU CU
Detention Facilities N N N CU CU CU
Mining N N N N N N
Radio Frequency Transmission Facilities N L/CU [7] L/CU [7] L/CU [7] L/CU [7] L/CU [7]
Rail Lines and Utility Corridors N CU CU CU CU CU
Mining N N N N N N
Radio Frequency Transmission Facilities N L/CU [7] L/CU [7] L/CU [7] L/CU [7] L/CU [7]
Rail Lines and Utility Corridors N CU CU CU CU CU
 Y = Yes, Allowed
CU = Conditional Use Review Required
L = Allowed, But Special Limitations
N = No, Prohibited

Notes:
• The use categories are described in Chapter 33.920.
• Regulations that correspond to the bracketed numbers [ ] are stated in 33.130.100.B.
• Specific uses and developments may also be subject to regulations in the 200s series of chapters.

Commentary

December 18, 2019                Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report               Page 18

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
Page 19               Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report          December 18, 2019

33.140 Employment and Industrial Zones
140
Sections:
General
33.140.010 General Purpose of the Zones
33.140.020 List of the Employment and Industrial Zones
33.140.030 Characteristics of the Zones
33.140.040 Other Zoning Regulations
33.140.050 Neighborhood Contact in EG and I Zones
33.140.055 Neighborhood Contact in EX Zone
Use Regulations
33.140.100 Primary Uses
33.140.110 Accessory Uses
33.140.130 Nuisance-Related Impacts
33.140.140 On-Site Waste Disposal
Site Development Standards
33.140.200 Lot Size
33.140.205 Floor Area Ratio
33.140.210 Height
33.140.215 Setbacks
33.140.220 Building Coverage
33.140.225 Landscaped Areas
33.140.227 Trees
33.140.230 Ground Floor Windows in the EX Zones
33.140.235 Screening
33.140.240 Pedestrian Standards
33.140.242 Transit Street Main Entrance
33.140.245 Exterior Display, Storage, and Work Activities
33.140.250 Trucks and Equipment
33.140.255 Drive-Through Facilities
33.140.265 Residential Development
33.140.270 Detached Accessory Structures
33.140.275 Fences
33.140.280 Demolitions
33.140.290 Nonconforming Development
33.140.295 Parking and Loading
33.140.300 Signs
33.140.310 Superblock Requirements
33.140.315 Recycling Areas

Commentary

December 18, 2019                Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report               Page 20
33.140.050 Neighborhood Contact

As an alternative to a land use review, a public notice and meeting requirement applies
to development of fuel storage structure, such as a new tank, at a Bulk Fossil Fuel
Terminal, similar to the requirement for multi-dwelling residential development. This
notice and meeting would create public awareness about the project and serve to
discuss a proposal in an informal basis.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
Page 21               Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report          December 18, 2019

33.140.050 Neighborhood Contact in EG and I Zones
A. Purpose. Neighborhood contact is required when a new storage structure for any type of
fuel will be built on a Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminal because of the impacts that fuel projects can
have on the surrounding community.
B. Neighborhood contact requirement. Proposals meeting the following conditions are
subject to the neighborhood contact requirement steps of 33.705.020.B., Neighborhood
Contact II. All of the steps in 33.705.020.B. must be completed before an application for a
building permit can be submitted:
1. The proposed development has not been subject to a land use review; and
2. The proposed development includes at least one new structure for the storage of any
type of fuel on a site with a Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminal use.

Commentary

December 18, 2019                Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report               Page 22
33.140.100 Primary Uses
The amendments to this section reflect changes to prohibit new Bulk Fossil Fuel
Terminals in the employment and industrial base zones and reclassify existing terminals
as limited uses.  Regulation of Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminals implements policy direction in
City of Portland Resolution 37168 (adopted November 2015) and, 2035 Comprehensive
Plan Policies 4.79, 4.81, 4.82, 6.48, and 7.14 which address reducing natural hazard
risks and fossil fuel distribution and storage facilities.
The limited use designation prohibits expansion of fossil fuel tank capacity at existing
Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminals, but allows for the replacement and reconfiguration of
existing fossil fuel tank capacity as of the date of adoption as a way to facilitate
seismic and safety upgrades.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
Page 23               Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report          December 18, 2019

33.140.100 Primary Uses
A. No change
B. Limited uses. Uses allowed that are subject to limitations are listed in Table 140-1 with an
"L". These uses are allowed if they comply with the limitations listed below and the
development standards and other regulations of this Title. In addition, a use or
development listed in the 200s series of chapters is also subject to the regulations of those
chapters. The paragraphs listed below contain the limitations and correspond with the
footnote numbers from Table 140-1.
1. – 16. No change
17. Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminals. This regulation applies to all parts of Table 140-1 that have
a [17].
a. Existing Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminals. Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminals that existed on
[insert effective date] are allowed, but the total amount of fossil fuel that can be
stored on the site in storage tanks is limited to the fossil fuel storage tank
capacity that existed on [insert effective date]. Total fossil fuel storage tank
capacity on the site in excess of the capacity that existed on [insert effective
date] is prohibited. Storing coal on the site is prohibited.
b. New Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminals are prohibited.

Commentary

December 18, 2019                Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report               Page 24
Table 140-1 Employment and Industrial Zone Primary Uses
The amendments to this section reflect changes to prohibit new Bulk Fossil Fuel
Terminals in all employment and industrial base zones and reclassify existing terminals
as limited uses.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
Page 25               Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report          December 18, 2019

Table 140-1
Employment and Industrial Zone Primary Uses

Use Categories

EG1

EG2

EX

IG1

IG2

IH
Residential Categories
Household Living N N Y CU [1] CU [1] CU [1]
Group Living N N L/CU [2] N N N
Commercial Categories
Retail Sales And Service  L/CU [3] L/CU [3] Y L/CU [4] L/CU [5] L/CU [6]
Office Y Y Y L/CU [4] L/CU [5] L/CU [6]
Quick Vehicle Servicing  Y Y N Y Y Y
Vehicle Repair Y Y Y Y Y Y
Commercial Parking  CU [15] CU [15] CU [15] CU [15] CU [15] CU [15]
Self-Service Storage Y Y L [7] Y Y Y
Commercial Outdoor Recreation Y Y Y CU CU CU
Major Event Entertainment CU CU CU CU CU CU
Industrial Categories
Manufacturing And Production Y Y Y Y Y Y
Warehouse And Freight Movement  Y Y Y Y Y Y
Wholesale Sales Y Y Y Y Y Y
Industrial Service Y Y Y Y Y Y
Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminal L [17] L [17] N L [17] L [17] L [17]
Railroad Yards N N N Y Y Y
Waste-Related N N N L/CU [8] L/CU [8] L/CU [8]
Institutional Categories
Basic Utilities Y/CU
[12]
Y/CU [12] Y/CU [12] Y/CU [13] Y/CU [13] Y/CU 13]
Community Service L/CU [9] L/CU [9] L/CU [10] L/CU [11] L/CU [11] L/CU [11]
Parks And Open Areas Y Y Y Y Y Y
Schools Y Y Y N N N
Colleges Y Y Y N N N
Medical Centers Y Y Y N N N
Religious Institutions Y Y Y N N N
Daycare  Y Y Y L/CU [11] L/CU 11] L/CU 11]
Other Categories
Agriculture L [16]  L [16] L [16]  L [16]  L [16]  L [16]
Aviation And Surface Passenger
Terminals

CU

CU

CU

CU

CU

CU
Detention Facilities CU CU CU CU CU CU
Mining N N N CU CU CU
Radio Frequency Transmission
Facilities
L/CU
[14]
L/CU [14] L/CU [14] L/CU [14] L/CU 14] L/CU 14]
Rail Lines And Utility Corridors Y Y Y Y Y Y
Y = Yes, Allowed
CU = Conditional Use Review Required
L = Allowed, But Special Limitations
N = No, Prohibited
Notes:
• The use categories are described in Chapter 33.920.
• Regulations that correspond to the bracketed numbers [ ] are stated in 33.140.100.B.
• Specific uses and developments may also be subject to regulations in the 200s series of chapters.

Commentary

December 18, 2019                Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report               Page 26
Table 150-1 Campus Institutional Zone Primary Uses

The amendments to this table reflect changes to prohibit Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminals in
the campus institutional base zones.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
Page 27               Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report          December 18, 2019

Table 150-1
Campus Institutional Zone Primary Uses
Use Categories CI1 CI2 IR
Residential Categories
Household Living N Y Y
Group Living N Y Y [9]
Commercial Categories
Retail Sales And Service  CU [1] Y L/CU [10]
Office N Y L/CU [10]
Quick Vehicle Servicing  N N N
Vehicle Repair N N N
Commercial Parking  N Y N
Self-Service Storage N N N
Commercial Outdoor Recreation N N N
Major Event Entertainment CU CU CU
Industrial Categories
Manufacturing And Production L [2] L/CU [2] N
Warehouse And Freight Movement  N N CU
Wholesale Sales N N N
Industrial Service L [2] L/CU [2] N
Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminal N N N
Railroad Yards N N CU
Waste-Related N N N
Institutional Categories
Basic Utilities L/CU [3] L/CU [3] L/CU [3]
Community Service CU [4] Y CU [4]
Parks And Open Areas L/CU [5] L/CU [5] L/CU [5]
Schools N N L/CU [11]
Colleges Y/CU [6] Y/CU [6] L/CU [11]
Medical Centers Y Y L/CU [11]
Religious Institutions CU CU CU
Daycare  Y Y L/CU [12]
Other Categories
Agriculture L [7] L [7] L [7]
Aviation And Surface Passenger
Terminals
N N N
Detention Facilities N N N
Mining N N N
Radio Frequency Transmission Facilities L/CU [8] L/CU [8] L/CU [8]
Rail Lines And Utility Corridors CU CU CU
Y = Yes, Allowed
CU = Conditional Use Review Required
L = Allowed, But Special Limitations
N = No, Prohibited
Notes:
• The use categories are described in Chapter 33.920.
• Regulations that correspond to the bracketed numbers [ ] are stated in 33.150.100.B.
• Specific uses and developments may also be subject to regulations in the 200s series of chapters.

Commentary

December 18, 2019                Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report               Page 28
33.730 Quasi-Judicial Procedures
The following amendments correct a mistake that was made as part of the recently
adopted Neighborhood Contact Update project. The Neighborhood Contact Update
project simplified, clarified and made the existing neighborhood contact requirements
more effective. The only existing neighborhood contact requirement in the EG and I
zones is a requirement related to development of new fuel storage tanks on fossil fuel
terminals. In keeping with the policy direction of the project (clarify the exisiting
rules), the Neighborhood Contact Update project did not add neighborhood contact
requirements for development other than fuel tanks in the EG or I zones. However, an
exemption for development in EG and I zones was inadvertently left out of the code
that details the neighborhood contact steps for a land use review. The following
amendments add that exemption.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
Page 29               Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report          December 18, 2019

33.730 Quasi-Judicial Procedures
730

33.730.013 Expedited Land Division Procedure
The Expedited Land Division (ELD) procedure provides an alternative to the standard procedures for
some land divisions. The applicant may choose to use the ELD process if the land division request
meets all of the elements specified in ORS 197.360. The steps of this procedure are in ORS 197.365
through .375. The application requirements are listed in Section 33.730.060, below. Two additional
steps are required for land division requests using the ELD Procedure:
A. Neighborhood contact.
1. When the ELD includes four to ten lots, the applicant is required to meet the
neighborhood contact requirements specified in 33.705.020.A., Neighborhood contact
I. If the proposed expedited land division is in an EG or I zone, it is exempt from the
neighborhood contact requirements.
2. When the ELD includes eleven or more lots, the applicant is required to meet the
neighborhood contact requirements specified in 33.705.020.B., Neighborhood contact
II. If the proposed expedited land division is in the EG1, EG2, or an I zone, it is exempt
from the neighborhood contact requirements.
B. Pre-application conference. A pre-application conference is required for all land division
requests processed through the ELD procedure. See 33.730.050, Pre-Application
Conference. The pre-application conference must be held before applying for an
ELD review.
33.730.014 Type I Procedure
The Type I procedure is an administrative process with public notice but no hearing.
A. Pre-application conferences. A pre-application conference is not required.
B. Neighborhood contact.
1. When the proposed development associated with the land use review will result in the
addition of at least 10,000 square feet and not more than 25,000 square feet of net
building area to the site, the neighborhood contact steps of 33.705.020.A.,
Neighborhood contact I, are required. If the proposed development is in the EG1, EG2,
or an I zone, or it has already met the neighborhood contact requirements as part of a
building permit process, it is exempt from the neighborhood contact requirements.

Commentary

December 18, 2019                Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report               Page 30

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
Page 31               Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report          December 18, 2019

2. When the proposed development associated with the land use review will result in the
addition of more than 25,000 square feet of net building area to the site, the
neighborhood contact steps of 33.725.020.B., Neighborhood contact II, are required. If
the proposed development is in the EG1 , EG2, or an I zone, or it has already met the
neighborhood contact requirements as part of a building permit process, it is exempt
from the neighborhood contact requirements.
C.-H. [No change]
33.730.015 Type Ix Procedure
The Type Ix procedure is an administrative process with public notice but no hearing.
A. Pre-application conferences. A pre-application conference is optional.
B. Neighborhood contact.
1. When the proposed development associated with the land use review will result in the
addition of at least 10,000 square feet and not more than 25,000 square feet of net
building area to the site, the neighborhood contact steps of 33.705.020.A.,
Neighborhood contact I, are required. If the proposed development is in the EG1, EG2,
or an I zone, or it has already met the neighborhood contact requirements as part of a
building permit process, it is exempt from the neighborhood contact requirements.
2. When the proposed development associated with the land use review will result in the
addition of more than 25,000 square feet of net building area to the site, the
neighborhood contact steps of 33.705.020.B., Neighborhood contact II, are required. If
the proposed development is in the EG1, EG2, or an I zone, or it has already met the
neighborhood contact requirements as part of a building permit process, it is exempt
from the neighborhood contact requirements.
C.-H. [No change]
33.730.020 Type II Procedure
The Type II procedure is an administrative process, with the opportunity to appeal the Director of
BDS's decision to another review body.
A. Pre-application conference. A pre-application conference is optional unless it is a specific
requirement of a review. See 33.730.050, Pre-Application Conference.
B. Neighborhood contact.
1. When the proposed development associated with the land use review will result in the
addition of at least 10,000 square feet and not more than 25,000 square feet of net
building area to the site and no portion of the site is in the Design overlay zone, the
neighborhood contact steps of 33.705.020.A., Neighborhood contact I, are required. If
the proposed development is in the EG1, EG2, or an I zone, or it has already met the
neighborhood contact requirements as part of a building permit process, it is exempt
from the neighborhood contact requirements.

Commentary

December 18, 2019                Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report               Page 32

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
Page 33               Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report          December 18, 2019

2. When the proposed development associated with the land use review will result in the
addition of more than 25,000 square feet of net building area to the site and no
portion of the site is in the Design overlay zone, the neighborhood contact steps of
33.705.020.B., Neighborhood contact II, are required. If the proposed development is
in the EG1, EG2, or an I zone, or it has already met the neighborhood contact
requirements as part of a building permit process, it is exempt from the neighborhood
contact requirements.
3. When the proposed development associated with the land use review will result in the
addition of more than 10,000 square feet of net building area to the site and the site is
in the Design overlay zone, the neighborhood contact steps of 33.705.020.C,
Neighborhood contact III, are required. If the proposed development is in the EG1,
EG2, or an I zone, or it has already met the neighborhood contact requirements as
part of a building permit process, it is exempt from the neighborhood contact
requirements.
C.-J. [No change]
33.730.025 Type IIx Procedure
The Type IIx procedure is an administrative process, with the opportunity to appeal the Director of
BDS's decision to another review body.
A. Pre-application conference. A pre-application conference is optional. See 33.730.050, Pre-
Application Conference.
B. Neighborhood contact.
1. The neighborhood contact steps of 33.705.020.A., Neighborhood contact I, are
required when:
a. The application is for a land division that includes four to ten lots; or
b. The application is for a land use review other than a land division and the
proposed development associated with the land use review will result in the
addition of at least 10,000 square feet and not more than 25,000 square feet of
net building area to the site. If the proposed development is in the EG1, EG2, or
an I zone, or it has already met the neighborhood contact requirements as part
of a building permit process, it is exempt from the neighborhood contact
requirements.
2. When the application is for a land use review other than a land division and the
proposed development associated with the land use review will result in the addition
of more than 25,000 square feet of net building area to the site, the neighborhood
contact steps of 33.705.020.B., Neighborhood contact II, are required. If the proposed
development is in the EG1, EG2, or an I zone, or it has already met the neighborhood
contact requirements as part of a building permit process, it is exempt from the
neighborhood contact requirements.
C.-J. [No change]

Commentary

December 18, 2019                Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report               Page 34

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
Page 35               Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report          December 18, 2019

33.730.030 Type III Procedure
A Type III procedure requires a public hearing before an assigned review body. Subsections A
through ED apply to all sites. If the site is within the City of Portland, Subsections FE through IH also
apply. If the site is in the portion of unincorporated Multnomah County that is subject to City zoning,
Subsection JI also applies.
A. Pre-application conference. A pre-application conference is required for all requests
processed through a Type III procedure. See 33.730.050, Pre-Application Conference.
B. Neighborhood contact.
1. The neighborhood contact steps of 33.705.020.A., Neighborhood contact I, are
required when:
a. The application is for a land division that includes four to ten lots and does not
include an environmental review; or
b. The application is for a land use review other than a land division and the
proposed development associated with the land use review will result in the
addition of at least 10,000 square feet and not more than 25,000 square feet of
net building area to the site and no portion of the site is in the Design overlay
zone. If the proposed development is in the EG1, EG2, or an I zone, or it has
already met the neighborhood contact requirements as part of a building permit
process, it is exempt from the neighborhood contact requirements.
2. The neighborhood contact steps of 33.705.020.B., Neighborhood contact II, are
required when:
a. The application is for a land division that includes eleven or more lots and does
not include an environmental review; or
b. The application is for a land use review other than a land division and the
proposed development associated with the land use review will result in the
addition of more than 25,000 square feet of net building area to the site and no
portion of the site is in the Design overlay zone. If the proposed development is
in the EG1, EG2, or an I zone, or it was subject to a building permit process, it is
exempt from the neighborhood contact requirements.
3. The neighborhood contact steps of 33.705.020.C., Neighborhood contact III, are
required when:
a. The application is for a land division that includes an environmental review; or
b. The application is for a land use review other than a land division and the
proposed development associated with the land use review will result in the
addition of more than 10,000 square feet of net building area to the site and the
site is in the Design overlay zone. If the proposed development is in the EG1,
EG2, or an I zone it is exempt from the neighborhood contact requirements.

Commentary

December 18, 2019                Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report               Page 36
33.910.030 Definitions
The definition of fossil fuels was added to clarify the land use category Bulk Fossil
Fuel Terminals.
Petrochemicals that are used primarily for non-fuel products are excluded, such as
asphalt, plastics, lubricants, fertilizer, roofing, and paints.  However, methanol is an
exception that is included as a fossil fuel, because large methanol storage and
distribution facilities tend to have structural similarities to liquid natural gas (LNG)
and liquid petroleum gas (LPG) terminals, including large-scale storage and gas pipeline
access, and because they can have similar safety and climate impacts.
Some fossil fuels under this definition are also classified as “renewable fuels” in the
federal Renewable Fuel Standard and “clean fuels” in Oregon’s Clean Fuel Standard,
such as liquid natural gas and liquid propane gas.  These federal and state standards
require transportation fuel sold within their jurisdiction to contain a minimum volume
of renewable or clean fuels.  Renewable or clean fuels with more than 5 percent fossil
fuel volume are defined as fossil fuels.
Renewable fuels are those fuels derived from biomass (plant or animal material), such
as recycled cooking oil, soybean oil, or animal fats. Renewable natural gas/biogas is fuel
captured from the waste stream, such as methane from landfills, waste water
treatment plants, and agricultural or food waste. It does not include methane and
other hydrocarbons produced from fossil fuels. Renewable hydrogen is hydrogen
produced using renewable energy derived from wind power sited in ecologically
responsible ways, solar, existing and low-impact hydroelectric, geothermal, biogas
(including biogas produced from biomass), and ocean/wave technology sources.
Fuels containing 5% or less fossil-fuel volume are not considered fossil fuels under this
definition.  For example, “pure” ethanol made from corn or other non-fossil source is
required by the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau to be denatured in order to
be transported to the site.  Denatured ethanol typically contains up to 5% methanol, so
that it is toxic and undrinkable.

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
Page 37               Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report          December 18, 2019

33.910 Definitions
 910

33.910.030 Definitions
The definition of words with specific meaning in the zoning code are as follows:
Fossil Fuel. Fossil fuels are petroleum products (such as crude oil and gasoline), coal, methanol, and
gaseous fuels (such as natural gas and propane) that are made from decayed plants and animals
that lived millions of years ago and are used as a source of energy. Denatured ethanol and similar
fuel additives with less than 5 percent fossil fuel content, biodiesel/renewable diesel with less than
5 percent fossil fuel content, and petroleum-based products used primarily for non-fuel uses (such
as asphalt, plastics, lubricants, fertilizer, roofing, and paints) are not fossil fuels.

Commentary

December 18, 2019                Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report               Page 38

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
Page 39               Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report          December 18, 2019

33.920 Descriptions of the Use Categories
920

Sections:
Introduction to the Use Categories
33.920.010 Purpose
33.920.020 Category Titles
33.920.030 Classification of Uses
Residential Use Categories
33.920.100 Group Living
33.920.110 Household Living
Commercial Use Categories
33.920.200 Commercial Outdoor Recreation
33.920.210 Commercial Parking
33.920.220 Quick Vehicle Servicing
33.920.230 Major Event Entertainment
33.920.240 Office
33.920.250 Retail Sales And Service
33.920 260 Self-Service Storage
33.920.270 Vehicle Repair
Industrial Use Categories
33.920.300 Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminal
33.920.310300 Industrial Service
33.920.320310 Manufacturing And Production
33.920.330320 Railroad Yards
33.920.340330 Warehouse And Freight Movement
33.920.350340 Waste-Related
33.920.360350 Wholesale Sales
Institutional Use Categories
33.920.400 Basic Utilities
33.920.410 Colleges
33.920.420 Community Service
33.920.430 Daycare
33.920.450 Medical Centers
33.920.460 Parks And Open Areas
33.920.470 Religious Institutions
33.920.480 Schools
Other Use Categories
33.920.500 Agriculture
33.920.510 Aviation And Surface Passenger Terminals
33.920.520 Detention Facilities
33.920.530 Mining
33.920.540 Radio Frequency Transmission Facilities
33.920.550 Rail Lines And Utility Corridors

Commentary

December 18, 2019                Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report               Page 40
33.920.300 Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminal
Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminals are added as a new land use category to regulate their
development in the Zoning Code. Regulation of Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminals implements policy
direction in City of Portland Resolution 37168 and 2035 Comprehensive Plan Policies 4.79,
4.81, 4.82, 6.48, and 7.14 which address reducing natural hazard risks and fossil fuel
distribution and storage facilities.
 Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminals are characterized by having (1) marine, pipeline or railroad
transport access and (2) either trans-loading facilities for transferring a shipment
between transport modes (such as from rail to ship) or bulk storage facilities exceeding 2
million gallons of fossil fuels.  The 2-million-gallon threshold is sized to include facilities
that are large enough to unload unit trains.  Functionally, these terminals tend to be
regional gateway facilities, where fossil fuels enter and exit the region.
The use description is clarified with criteria that are intended to prevent the aggregation
of new facilities smaller than 2 million gallons on adjacent sites into a larger terminal that
could effectively circumvent the terminal storage capacity threshold.
Resolution 37168 lists a specific exception to not restrict service directly to end users.
At a small scale, services to end users include retail gasoline filling stations, natural gas
access lines in street right-of-way to residential and business customers, and heating oil
tanks at home sites.  Larger scale end users with fossil fuel storage and access
infrastructure also include manufacturers, jet fuel facilities for PDX Airport, vessel fuel
facilities on Portland Harbor, and others, where fossil fuels are used as an input.
Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
Page 41               Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report          December 18, 2019

33.920.300 Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminal
A. Characteristics. Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminals are establishments primarily engaged in the
transport and bulk storage of fossil fuels. Terminal activities may also include fuel blending,
regional distribution, and wholesaling. The firms rely on access by marine, railroad, or regional
pipeline to transport fuels to or from the site, and either have transloading facilities for
transferring a shipment between transport modes, or have storage capacity exceeding 2 million
gallons for fossil fuels. There is minimal on-site sales activity with the customer present.
B. Accessory uses. Accessory uses may include retail sales of petroleum products, offices, food
membership distribution, parking, storage, truck fleet parking and maintenance areas, rail spur
or lead lines, and docks.
C. Examples. Examples include crude oil terminals, petroleum products terminals, natural gas
terminals, propane terminals, and coal terminals.
D. Exceptions.
1. Truck or marine freight terminals that do not store, transport or distribute fossil fuels are
classified as Warehouse And Freight Movement uses.
2. Truck or marine freight terminals that do not have transloading facilities and have storage
capacity of 2 million gallons or less are classified as Warehouse And Freight Movement
uses. However, multiple fossil fuel facilities, each with 2 million gallons of fossil fuel
storage capacity or less but cumulatively having a fossil fuel storage capacity in excess of 2
million gallons, located on separate parcels of land will be classified as a Bulk Fossil Fuel
Terminal when two or more of the following factors are present:
a. The facilities are located or will be located on one or more adjacent parcels of land.
Adjacent includes separated by a shared right-of-way;
b. The facilities share or will share operating facilities such as driveways, parking, piping,
or storage facilities; or
c. The facilities are owned or operated by a single parent partnership or corporation.
3. Gasoline stations and other retail sales of fossil fuels are not Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminals.
4. Distributors and wholesalers that receive and deliver fossil fuels exclusively by truck are
not Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminals.
5. Industrial, commercial, institutional, and agricultural firms that exclusively store fossil fuel
for use as an input are not Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminals.
6. Uses that involve the transfer or storage of solid or liquid wastes are classified as Waste-
Related uses.
7. The storage of fossil fuels for exclusive use at an airport, surface passenger terminal,
marine, truck or air freight terminal, drydock, ship or barge servicing facility, rail yard, or
as part of a fleet vehicle servicing facility are not Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminals.
8.  Uses that recover or reprocess used petroleum products are not Bulk Fossil Fuel
Terminals.

Commentary

December 18, 2019                Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report               Page 42

Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
Page 43               Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report          December 18, 2019

33.920.310300 Industrial Service
33.920.320310 Manufacturing And Production
33.920.330320 Railroad Yards
33.920.340330 Warehouse And Freight Movement
A. Characteristics. Warehouse And Freight Movement firms are involved in the storage, or
movement of goods for themselves or other firms. Goods are generally delivered to other firms
or the final consumer, except for some will-call pickups. There is little on-site sales activity with
the customer present.
B. Accessory uses. Accessory uses may include offices, food membership distribution, truck fleet
parking and maintenance areas, rail spur or lead lines, docks, and repackaging
of goods.
C. Examples. Examples include separate warehouses used by retail stores such as furniture and
appliance stores; household moving and general freight storage; cold storage plants, including
frozen food lockers; storage of weapons and ammunition; major wholesale distribution
centers; truck, marine, or air freight terminals; bus barns and light rail barns; parcel services;
major post offices; grain terminals; and the stockpiling of sand, gravel, or other aggregate
materials.
D. Exceptions.
1. Uses that involve the transfer or storage of solid or liquid wastes are classified as Waste-
Related uses.
2. Miniwarehouses are classified as Self-Service Storage uses.
3. Establishments that engage in the transfer or storage of fossil fuels, rely on access by
marine, railroad or regional pipeline to transport fuels to or from the site, and either have
transloading facilities or have storage capacity exceeding 2 million gallons for fossil fuels
are classified as Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminal uses.
33.920.350340 Waste-Related
33.920.360350 Wholesale Sales
A. Characteristics. Wholesale Sales firms are involved in the sale, lease, or rent of products
primarily intended for industrial, institutional, or commercial businesses. The uses emphasize
on-site sales or order taking and often include display areas. Businesses may or may not be
open to the general public, but sales to the general public are limited as a result of the way in
which the firm operates. Products may be picked up on site or delivered to the customer.
B. Accessory uses. Accessory uses may include offices, food membership distribution, product
repair, warehouses, parking, minor fabrication services, and repackaging of goods.
C. Examples. Examples include sale or rental of machinery, equipment, heavy trucks, building
materials, special trade tools, welding supplies, machine parts, electrical supplies, janitorial
supplies, restaurant equipment, and store fixtures; mail order houses; and wholesalers of food,
clothing, auto parts, building hardware, and office supplies.

Commentary

December 18, 2019                Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report               Page 44
Language to be added is underlined
Language to be deleted is shown in strikethrough
Page 45               Fossil Fuel Terminal Zoning Amendments—Remand Report          December 18, 2019

D. Exceptions.
1. Firms that engage primarily in sales to the general public are classified as Retail Sales And
Service.
2. Firms that engage in sales on a membership basis are classified as either Retail Sales And
Service or Wholesale Sales, based on a consideration of the characteristics of
the use.
3. Firms that are primarily storing goods with little on-site business activity are classified as
Warehouse And Freight Movement.
4. Establishments that engage in the regional wholesaling of fossil fuels, rely on access by
marine, railroad or regional pipeline to transport fuels to or from the site, and either have
transloading facilities or have storage capacity exceeding 2 million gallons for fossil fuels
are classified as Bulk Fossil Fuel Terminal uses.