Appendix 6: Transportation
Contents

Introduction .................................................................................................................................................. 3
Context ...................................................................................................................................................... 4
Acknowledgments ..................................................................................................................................... 4
CAC Subcommittee Members ............................................................................................................... 4
TAC Subcommittee Members ............................................................................................................... 5
Relation of Appendix 6: Transportation to the SIMC Plan ........................................................................ 5
Maps & Figures ......................................................................................................................................... 6
Maps...................................................................................................................................................... 6
SECTION 1: KEY TRANSPORTATION ISSUES ................................................................................................... 9
SECTION 2: EXISTING CONDITIONS ............................................................................................................... 9
1997 SIMC Plan ......................................................................................................................................... 9
1998 Westside Rural Multnomah County Transportation System Plan ................................................. 13
SECTION 3: STATEWIDE REGULATORY FRAMEWORK ................................................................................. 19
SECTION 4: RELEVANT COUNTY AND AGENCY PLANS ................................................................................ 20
Relevant Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan policies regarding Transportation ......................... 20
Policy 32 Capital Improvements ......................................................................................................... 20
Policy 33a Transportation System ...................................................................................................... 20
Policy 33b Marine Transportation System .......................................................................................... 21
Policy 33c Bicycle/Pedestrian System ................................................................................................. 21
Policy 34 Trafficways ........................................................................................................................... 21
Policy 35 Public Transportation .......................................................................................................... 22
Policy 36 Transportation Development Requirements ...................................................................... 23
Relevant 1997 SIMC Plan Policies regarding Transportation .................................................................. 24
POLICY 21: Recommend that the Multnomah County Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory Committee
has significant Sauvie Island representation....................................................................................... 24
POLICY 22: Have the Multnomah County Bicycle and Pedestrian Citizen Advisory Committee study
and recommend to the Board of Commissioners short-term and long-term solutions to safely
accommodate bicyclists, pedestrians, and motor vehicles on Sauvie Island including on-road
bikeways, separated multi-use paths, and funding options. .............................................................. 24
POLICY 23: Update Policy 33B Marine Transportation System in the Comprehensive Framework
Plan. .................................................................................................................................................... 24
POLICY 24: Oppose placement of regional roadways in the Sauvie Island/Multnomah Channel Rural
Area, should such roadways be under consideration by any regional transportation authority in the
future. ................................................................................................................................................. 24
POLICY 25: Review rural roadway standards to determine if 8-foot paved shoulder widths can be
reduced to preserve the rural character of roads. ............................................................................. 24
POLICY 26: Participate in a cooperative effort with the Sauvie Island Drainage District and the Army
Corps of Engineers to study the dikes upon which public roads run including funding for dike
improvements. .................................................................................................................................... 24
Relevant 1998 Westside Rural Multnomah County Transportation System Plan Policies regarding
Transportation ........................................................................................................................................ 25
Relevant Zoning Ordinance Provisions ................................................................................................... 29
Multnomah County  Road Rules (MCRR) ............................................................................................ 29
Multnomah County Design and Construction Manual (DCM) ............................................................ 30
SECTION 6: RELEVANT STATE AND REGIONAL AGENCY PLANS & RULES ................................................... 33
Section 7: PROPOSED TRANSPORTATION POLICY FRAMEWORK ............................................................... 34
Preliminary Recommendations to Resolve Issues Identified in Section 1 .............................................. 34
Section 8: Subcommittee Meeting Process ................................................................................................ 34
Agendas ................................................................................................................................................... 34
Meeting Summaries ................................................................................................................................ 34
Documents & Materials Considered ....................................................................................................... 34
Detailed Findings & Recommendations .................................................................................................. 34

Introduction
As described on the Multnomah County website:
The Sauvie Island/Multnomah Channel Rural Area includes those portions of Sauvie Island and
the Multnomah Channel within Multnomah County. The Plan Area is bounded by U.S. Highway
30 on the west, Columbia County on the north, the Columbia River on the east, and the
Willamette River and the city of Portland on the south. The area is dominated by agricultural
uses and a wildlife refuge, with various water-related uses on and along Multnomah Channel,
ranging from protected wetlands to marinas.
Appendix 6 – Transportation System Plan Background Report  is the seventh of a series of topic-specific
background documents that are intended to serve as the factual and analytical basis for the 2013-2014
update of the Sauvie Island – Multnomah Channel Rural Area Plan and Transportation System Plan
(SIMC Plan). Appendix 6 addresses the transportation system in the SIMC planning area.
Maps 1 and 2 below show SIMC Planning Area. Map 1 is taken from the 1997 SIMC Plan.  Map 2 shows a
2012 aerial photo of the SIMC Planning Area.
Map 1.  1997 SIMC Planning Area  Map 2. 2012 Aerial  Photo

Context
The transportation system of Sauvie Island and the Multnomah Channel serves and supports a number
of different transportation modes for the area. These modes include motor vehicles, bicyclists,
pedestrians, horses and farm equipment. As part of the scoping process for the update a number of
concerns were raised regarding safety, conflicts between modes, and increased traffic and demand on
the transportation system.  The issue of “cumulative impacts” from increased tourism and recreational
use of the Island was especially a focus of discussion of transportation issues at the Transportation
Subcommittee and CAC level.  The proposed policies are intended to address cumulative impacts from
the transportation perspective.
The transportation system in the area consists of a series of roads that serve a variety of uses. The area
is dominated by agricultural uses and a wildlife refuge, with various water-related uses on and along
Multnomah Channel ranging from protected wetlands to marinas. The Sauvie Island Road system is
largely served by a main loop made up of a Rural Collector road system. They are Gillihan Rd, Reeder Rd.
and Sauvie Island Rd. Rural Collector roads distribute traffic over large areas and generally connect to
urban streets or rural arterials. They also provide for necessary truck transport (agriculture, timber or
minerals) out of rural areas. All other roads in the Sauvie Island/Multnomah Channel Rural Area are
Rural Local roads. Local roads provide access to abutting land uses and are generally low traffic volume
and low speed facilities. All road access to Sauvie Island runs across the Sauvie Island Bridge, which
crosses Multnomah Channel near the south end of the island.
Access to properties along the Channel mainly comes off US Highway 30 which is an Oregon Department
of Transportation (ODOT) facility. These roads are mainly classified as Rural Local or Local Roads and
mainly serve the adjacent land uses. These roads include: Wapato Drive, Burlington Drive, Wapato
Avenue, and Lower Rocky Point Road. County standards for Rural Collector roadways include two 12-
foot travel lanes and two 8-foot paved shoulders. Gillihan Rd, Reeder Rd and Sauvie Island Rd are not
currently constructed to the County standards for Rural Collector roads. While right-of-way is owned to
accommodate these standards, there are no plans to reconstruct the roadways. Widening the paved
surface would require extensive fill to widen the dike to accommodate an additional 16 feet for paved
shoulders.
Acknowledgments
Appendix 6 resulted in large part from the work and recommendations of the SIMC Community Advisory
Committee (CAC), the SIMC Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) and most particularly the
Transportation Subcommittee, comprised of select CAC and TAC members who expressed an interest in
and knowledge of the complex issues addressed in this report.  Subcommittee members who actively
participated in the preparation of this appendix include the following:
CAC Subcommittee Members
•  Ericka Dickey-Nelson
•  Martha Berndt
•  Stephan Morris
•  Julie Samples
TAC Subcommittee Members
•  John Niiyama, Multnomah County Road Services, Maintenance
•  Brian Vincent, Multnomah County Road Services, Engineering
•  Katherine McQuillan, Multnomah County Transportation Planning
•  Ross Kevlin, ODOT Region 1
•  David Lanning, ODOT Rail
•  Ben Baldwin, TriMet
The process leading up to these recommendations is documented in Section 6 of this report.
Relation of Appendix 6: Transportation to the SIMC Plan
The SIMC Plan itself will include a vision statement, plan policies and implementation strategies, plan
and zoning maps, and land use regulations for the entire SIMC planning area.  The SIMC Plan will also
include basic explanatory text and tables, as well as composite inventory maps – but the detailed
substantive and procedural information leading up to the adoption of the SIMC Plan is found in the
series of appendices listed below.  To become effective, the SIMC Plan must be “acknowledged” as
complying with all fifteen applicable statewide planning goals; findings documenting compliance with
these goals is found in Appendix 7.
The nine appendices listed below will provide the detailed inventory information and analysis,
consideration of alternative policy choices, explanation of the reasons for ultimate policy choices, and
documentation of the robust community engagement effort that culminated in plan adoption.  Section 7
of this document includes a complementary Multnomah Channel vision statement, draft policies and
implementation for the Multnomah Channel area that will be incorporated (in some form) into the final
SIMC Plan.
Unlike the SIMC Plan, the appendices (background reports) are not intended to serve as policy
documents in themselves – but do provide the information required by Statewide Planning Goals 1
(Citizen Involvement) and 2 (Land Use Planning) necessary to support the County’s ultimate policy
choices.
•  Appendix 1: SIMC Scoping Report  (CH2M Hill)
•  Appendix 2: Agriculture and Agri-Tourism Background Report
•  Appendix 3: Multnomah Channel Marinas and Floating Homes Background Report
•  Appendix 4: Natural and Cultural Resources Background Report
•  Appendix 5: Public Facilities and Semi-Public Facilities Background Report
•  Appendix 6: Transportation Background Report
•  Appendix 7: Consistency with Applicable Statewide Planning Goals
Focusing on topical areas is useful when identifying and resolving specific issues.  The 1997 SIMC Plan
describes the transportation system for the area and relation to relevant County plans such as the bike
and pedestrian plans.  The 1997 plan also includes policies.  In addition to the 1997 plan, the 1998
Westside Rural Multnomah County Transportation System Plan provides a more detailed look at the
transportation system for the area.
Focusing attention on any specific issue can also lose sight of the big picture.  Recognizing this limitation,
the CAC will hold a special meeting towards the end of the community involvement process to consider
and integrate the results of each topical appendix. The SIMP Plan itself will include a chapter devoted to
integrating the series of topical issues and policies into a cohesive and internally consistent rural area
planning document.
Maps & Figures
Appendix 6 includes the following maps and figures showing natural resources within and adjacent to
the SIMC planning area. Portions of the maps and figures listed below will be incorporated into the SIMC
Plan for the entire planning area, which includes all of Sauvie Island, Multnomah Channel and land
between the Channel and US Highway 30.
Maps
•  SIMC Planning Area

•  Base Zoning

•  Functional Class Map

SECTION 1: KEY TRANSPORTATION ISSUES
The following issues are quoted directly from the May 6, 2013 staff report to the Multnomah County
Planning Commission related to PC-2013-2659 (Scoping Report in support of updating to the 1997
Sauvie Island – Multnomah Channel Rural Area Plan).
•  Need for strategies that reduce traffic conflicts between modes on Sauvie Island roads,
particularly between bicycles and motorists, but also including farm equipment and pedestrians.
There is a strong desire for better accommodations for bicycles and pedestrians. The lack of
road shoulders and/or multi-use paths is a common theme.
•  Need for safety improvements for roads, intersections, and rail crossings.
•  Concern regarding the increasing numbers of visitors to Sauvie Island and related issues, such as
increased traffic and increased demand on emergency service providers.
SECTION 2: EXISTING CONDITIONS
This section includes a discussion of information found in the 1997 Plan, the Multnomah County
Comprehensive Framework Plan, and the 1998 Westside Rural Multnomah County Transportation
System Plan.
1997 SIMC Plan
The following maps and text related to transportation are provided below.
TRANSPORTATION
Multnomah County Comprehensive Framework Plan
The Transportation System Policy of the Multnomah County Comprehensive Framework Plan includes
policies for the following three categories: 1) Transportation System (33A), 2) Marine Transportation
System (33B) and 3) Bikeways/Pedestrian System (33C). Multnomah County's policy is to provide a
balanced transportation system that offers alternative transportation facilities to people and commerce.

The purpose of Policy 33A is to establish criteria for Multnomah County to use in evaluating alternative
transportation proposals in order to achieve its objective of a balanced, safe and efficient system.
POLICY 33B ensures that Multnomah County takes appropriate action to provide for needed marine
transportation system facilities in those areas of the Portland region within its jurisdiction. The system
includes appropriate backup land for marine terminal and waterfront industrial facilities. This policy
addresses the Columbia River shipping channel only and does not include Multnomah Channel.

Bikeways and pedestrian ways are an integral part of a balanced transportation system. Policy 33C
currently focuses on implementing a bicycle system without addressing the pedestrian system.
However, this policy will be amended in the near future to reflect the recently adopted Pedestrian
Master Plan as well as the Bicycle Master Plan. Policy 33C directs facility planning and route
implementation based on the Bicycle Network Map.

Policy 34 of the Comprehensive Framework plan directs Multnomah County to develop the existing
traffic way system to maximize efficiency, and to consider the mobility of pedestrians by providing safe
crossings. There are three types of roads in the Sauvie
Island/Multnomah Channel Rural Area. US 30 is classified as a Principal Arterial. Principal Arterials serve
interstate, interregional, and regional traffic. Traffic volumes are high and access to adjacent land uses is
limited.

Three roadways on Sauvie Island are classified in Policy 34 as Rural Collector roadways. They are Gillihan
Rd, Reeder Rd and Sauvie Island Rd. Rural Collector roads distribute traffic over large areas and generally
connect to urban streets or rural arterials. They also provide for necessary truck transport (agriculture,
timber or minerals) out of rural areas.

All other roads in the Sauvie Island/Multnomah Channel Rural Area are Rural Local roads. Local roads
provide access to abutting land uses and are generally low traffic volume and low speed facilities.

All road access to Sauvie Island runs across the Sauvie Island bridge, which crosses Multnomah Channel
near the south end of the island. It is a narrow two-lane facility with no capacity for major increases in
traffic over existing levels.

Portland-Astoria (US Highway 30) Corridor Plan
An inventory of US 30 was conducted as part of the Corridor Plan by the Oregon Department of
Transportation. The segment of US 30 from the Portland City Limits to the Multnomah County line is a
four-lane highway with high speeds and volumes. Traffic volumes range from 10,000 - 50,000 average
daily traffic (ADT) with peak summer traffic increasing 10-30 % above ADT.

US 30 is a designated Statewide Bicycle Route. Bicycle travel is expected to increase for both commuter
and recreational travel. The Plan recommends that, at a minimum, five-foot paved shoulders be
provided to accommodate bicycle use along the entire corridor length. Additional pavement is needed in
some areas to meet the five-foot shoulder width. Other recommendations include:

Provide connections to local bicycle (and hiking) systems where feasible, and
Provide bicycle crossings across US 30 where appropriate and feasible.

Pedestrians are allowed to use the shoulders on US 30, but pedestrian activity is expected to be
concentrated in the urban areas.
The Bicycle Master Plan, adopted in 1990, was developed with assistance from a County wide Bicycle
Planning Task Force and a Sauvie Island Bicycle Planning Task Force. Two objectives with related policies
and implementation strategies are identified in the
Bicycle Master Plan.

1) Develop and maintain an extensive network of bicycle transportation facilities that provide
safe, efficient and enjoyable bicycle travel.

2) Increase bicyclist and motorist knowledge and awareness so as to resolve hazards and
conflicts of bicycling, and reduce the occurrence of bicycle related accidents.

Included in the Bicycle Master Plan is a Bikeway Plan Map. The map identifies roadways that will provide
a bikeway facility when the roadway is constructed to current standards. There are two bikeways
identified on the map for the Sauvie Island/Multnomah Channel area: US 30 and Sauvie Island Rd from
US 30 to Ferry Rd. Paved shoulders exist on US 30 providing a space for bicyclists to ride. Paved
shoulders, the standard bikeway for Rural Collectors, do not exist on Sauvie Island Rd.

Reconstructing Sauvie Island Rd to improve safety for bicyclists and motorists has been estimated to
cost over $1 million. To add paved shoulders, the dike would need to be widened. Currently, there is no
funding available or identified. Extensive coordination is required for this project with the Corps of
Engineers, Sauvie Island Drainage District and Multnomah County.

The Bicycle Master Plan recommends establishing a Bicycle Citizen Advisory Committee to address
current and future bicycling problems and opportunities.

Multnomah County Pedestrian Master Plan

The purpose of the Pedestrian Master Plan is to establish a framework for developing a safe and
convenient urban and rural pedestrian system on Multnomah County roads. County standards for
pedestrian facilities on rural roads include 4-foot gravel or 8-foot paved shoulders. On Sauvie Island
roads, paved shoulders are very limited. There are currently no plans to widen the shoulders on Gillihan
Rd., Reeder Rd. or Sauvie Island Rd. Other pedestrian facilities that may need to be provided on the
island include pedestrian crossings at the school or at other destinations that attract pedestrians.

Shoulders exist on US 30 and may be used by pedestrians. The Oregon Bike and Pedestrian Plan states
that where shoulders are expected to be used by bicyclists and pedestrians, shoulders should be 1.8m (6
ft) or wider. Shoulders on rural roads are shared with bicyclists.

The Pedestrian Master Plan recommends establishing a Pedestrian Citizen Advisory Committee to assist
the County in identifying and resolving specific pedestrian issues, problems and opportunities.

Street Standards

County standards for Rural Collector roadways include two 12-foot travel lanes and two 8-foot paved
shoulders. Gillihan Rd, Reeder Rd and Sauvie Island Rd are not currently constructed to the County
standards for Rural Collector roads. While right-of-way is owned to accommodate these standards,
there are no plans to reconstruct the roadways. Widening the paved surface would require extensive fill
to widen the dike to accommodate an additional 16 feet for paved shoulders.

Existing Policies from 1997 Rural Area Plan

POLICY 21: Recommend that the Multnomah County Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory Committee has
significant Sauvie Island representation.
STRATEGY: Multnomah County shall implement this policy through the appointment process for
the Committee.

POLICY 22: Have the Multnomah County Bicycle and Pedestrian Citizen Advisory Committee study and
recommend to the Board of Commissioners short-term and long-term solutions to safely accommodate
bicyclists, pedestrians, and motor vehicles on Sauvie Island including on-road bikeways, separated multi-
use paths, and funding options.
STRATEGY: Multnomah County shall implement this policy through the work program of the
Bicycle & Pedestrian Citizen Advisory Committee and the Transportation and Land Use Planning
Division budget.

POLICY 23: Update Policy 33B Marine Transportation System in the Comprehensive Framework Plan.
STRATEGY: Multnomah County shall implement this policy through the budgeting process for
the Division of Transportation and Land Use Planning.

POLICY 24: Oppose placement of regional roadways in the Sauvie Island/Multnomah Channel Rural Area,
should such roadways be under consideration by any regional transportation authority in the future.
STRATEGY: Multnomah County shall use this policy in discussions and recommendations
regarding regional roadways.

POLICY 25: Review rural roadway standards to determine if 8-foot paved shoulder widths can be
reduced to preserve the rural character of roads.
STRATEGY: Multnomah County shall implement this policy through the budgeting process for
the Division of Transportation and Land Use Planning.

POLICY 26: Participate in a cooperative effort with the Sauvie Island Drainage District and the Army
Corps of Engineers to study the dikes upon which public roads run including funding for dike
improvements.
STRATEGY: Multnomah County shall implement this policy by working with the Drainage District
and Corps of Engineers to devise and then implement a process for studying the dikes with
roads on them protecting Sauvie Island.

Map XX.  Functional Classification in 1997

Source: SIMC Plan 1997

1998 Westside Rural Multnomah County Transportation System Plan

The following maps and text related to transportation are provided below.
Goals,  Objectives and Policies from 1998 TSP
Goal 1:  Implement a transportation system that is safe and efficient in meeting the needs of area
residents and those traveling through the area.
 Objective A:  Provide a transportation system that addresses safety concerns for all modes of
travel
Policy: Improve roadways to attain appropriate safety levels for all motorized and
non-motorized traffic
 Implementation strategies:
i.  Monitor accident rates for all modes of transportation and
recommend implementation of low-cost operational
improvements within budgetary limits. Target resources to
reduce accident potential in the top 10 percent of accident
locations
ii.  Continue to monitor high accident location sites for all modes of
transportation
iii.  Implement access management standards to reduce vehicle
conflicts and maintain the rural character of the area

…
Policy: Actively support safe travel speeds on the transportation system
 Implementation strategies:
i.  Support speed limit enforcement
ii.  Apply design standards that encourage appropriate motor
vehicle and truck speeds.
Objective B:  Provide a transportation system that is convenient and limits congestion while
meeting minimum safety standards
  Policy: Review adopted design standards to determine if 4 feet paved shoulders
adequately meet safety standards for all modes of travel.
  Implementation Strategies:
i.  Support the Street Design Guidelines for 2040 and apply them
appropriately to maintain the rural character of Multnomah
County
ii.  Support Title 6 of the Urban Growth Management Functional
Plan and apply level of service standards appropriately to
maintain the character of rural Multnomah County.
Goal 2:  Implement a balanced transportation system that supports all modes of travel.
 Objective A:  Establish a transportation system that accommodates a variety of methods of
travel and minimizes reliance on a single travel mode
  Policy: Encourage the use of ride sharing facilities
   Implementation Strategies
i.  Support safe and convenient park and ride facilities for car pools
and transit service in convenient and appropriate locations
ii.  Encourage the placement of bike lockers at all park and
ride/park and car pool locations. Support and promote their
use.
iii.  Coordinate with other agencies to assist users with convenient
services (e.g. ride share matching)
  Policy: Encourage mobility for the transportation disadvantaged.
   Implementation Strategy
i.  Work with public transportation providers to monitor and
provide for the transportation needs of the transportation
disadvantaged.
  Policy: Support the development of multi-use paths.
   Implementation Strategy
i.  Coordinate multi-use trail transportation needs with Metro
Parks and Green Spaces
Goal 3: Develop a transportation system that supports the rural character of West Multnomah County
 Objective A:  Maintain a transportation system that supports the surrounding rural land use
designations
  Policy: Discourage through traffic on trafficways with functional classification of rural
local road
   Implementation Strategies
i.  Reduce travel conflicts by providing appropriate facilities, signs,
and traffic markings based upon user type and travel mode
ii.  On rural local roads with heavy through traffic, consider
implementing appropriate traffic-calming measures to reduce
such traffic
 Objective B:  Provide a transportation system that minimizes impacts to wildlife and agricultural
resources.
  Policy: Apply roadway design safety standards appropriately by balancing the needs of
the travelling public and minimizing negative impacts to the environment.
   Implementation Strategies
i.  Develop and implement a design exception process that
considers the relative and incremental benefits of
implementation costs and impacts to the environment
ii.  Assess implications of fish passage requirements on county
facilities and develop a program for retrofitting drainage
facilities
iii.  Adopt and apply drainage system design guidelines and
standards to accommodate fish passage
iv.  Adopt and apply rural roadway shoulder standards that
preserve the rural character of the area
v.  Adopt and apply rural roadway standards that accommodate
wildlife migration
 Objective C:  Maintain the beauty of the area by preserving critical view sheds
  Policy: Encourage the placement of new pipelines and transmissions lines in existing
right-of-way whenever possible
   Implementation Strategies
i.  Develop general guidelines for utility placement within the
county right-of-way that reduce the number of conflicts and
cost of implementation
ii.  Enhance the rural character and scenic qualities of the area by
placing utilities underground when possible
iii.  Coordinate improvements with utility companies through
regular status meetings to maintain and preserve the beauty of
the rural character of west Multnomah County.
 Objective D:  Ensure the transportation plan meets federal, state and regional air, water, and
noise standards
  Policy: Coordinate transportation improvement proj ects with appropriate regulatory
agencies
   Implementation Strategies
i.  Retrofit existing facilities to meet regulatory requirements
within budgetary limits.
ii.  Obtain permits as necessary for transportation improvement
projects and maintenance activities
Goal 4:  Develop a transportation system the supports a healthy economy
 Objective A:  Provide a convenient access while maintaining movement of freight along the U.S.
Corridor 30
  Policy: Provide ongoing coordination with state, r egional, and local business interests
to assure efficient movement of goods and services
   Implementation Strategies
i.  Participate in, support, and adopt the U.S. 30 Corridor Plan
ii.  Provide for auxiliary turn lanes on road connections to U.S. 30
to achieve acceptable operating levels of service
  Policy: Promote transportation alternatives for t he movement of freight.
   Implementation strategies:
i.  Encourage rail operators to maintain rail service within the U.S.
30 corridor
ii.  Support the movement of freight on the Columbia River,
including the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ study of deepening
the Lower Columbia River navigation channel to accommodate
deep draft ships.
 Objective B:  Preserve the function and safety of the transportation system.
  Policy: Provide a transportation system that ensur es economically viable
transportation of goods from farm to market.
   Implementation Strategies
i.  Conduct a study of the Sauvie Island Bridge
ii.  Conduct a study of Cornelius Pass Road
  Policy: Coordinate transportation system management activities with interested and
affected stakeholders
   Implementation Strategies
i.  Wok with property owners to consolidate existing accesses
when possible and as appropriate to access management
standards
ii.  Support limited accesses along U.S. 30 to the extent possible.
Support access management along U.S. 30 in accordance with
ODOT’s Access Management Standards.

Goal 5:  Provide transportation improvements in a timely manner according to funding capability.
 Objective A:  Maximize cost-effectiveness of transportation improvements using the Capital
Improvement Plan process.
  Policy: Invest in safety and maintenance improvem ents
   Implementing strategies
i.  Accelerate shoulder paving to safely accommodate automobile,
bicycle, and pedestrian use.
ii.  Make intersection improvements to improve safety, sight
distance, and intersection efficiency.
iii.  Continue to provide opportunities to educate and inform
citizens with easy-to-understand materials on transportation
finance.
iv.  Ensure the Capital Improvement Plan evaluation criteria
adequately evaluates rural needs.

SECTION 3: STATEWIDE REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
Oregon’s Statewide Planning Goals and implementing “administrative rules” apply when comprehensive
plans are adopted or amended.  The Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan and the SIMC Plan have
been “acknowledged” by the Oregon Land Conservation and Development Commission (LCDC) as
complying with applicable Statewide Planning Goals and administrative rules.  Therefore, the County can
rely on its acknowledged plans and (in most cases) need not do a separate goal analysis when
implementing acknowledged plans.
The exception to this rule occurs when the County interprets the meaning of applicable statutes, goals
and rules; the Greenfield v. Bella Organics cases are an example of the Oregon Land Use Board of
Appeals and the Oregon Court of Appeals reversing and remanding a County decision because those
decisions improperly construed applicable statutes.
In any case, the SIMC Plan is part of the Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan; therefore, any
amendments to the SIMC Plan must comply with applicable Statewide Planning Goals, rules and
statutes.  Appendix 7: Compliance with Applicable Statewide Planning Goals provides findings explaining
how proposed amendments to the SIMC Plan so comply.

SECTION 4: RELEVANT COUNTY AND AGENCY PLANS
In addition to plans identified in Section 2, the Multnomah County Comprehensive Framework Plan and
the Sauvie Island Rural Area Plan have policies that are relevant to the transportation system within the
SIMC planning area.
Relevant Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan policies regarding
Transportation
Policy 32 Capital Improvements
The provision of public facilities and services is a key component in land development and
implementation of the comprehensive land use plan. A timely and efficient arrangement of public
facilities and services maximizes the use of available and projected resources while responding to
demands for service by existing and future land users.

Basic services needed to support land development are public schools, transportation, water supply,
and sewage and solid waste disposal. Other essential support services include police and fire
protection; sanitary and storm drainage facilities; planning, zoning, and subdivision control; health
and recreational facilities and services; energy; communications; and community governmental
services.

The County's intent is to require the establishment and maintenance of a public services and
facilities plan and capital improvements program which will provide for the timely, orderly and
efficient arrangement of public services and facilities, considering:
1.  The health, safety and general welfare of County residents;
2.  the level of services required, based upon the needs and uses permitted in urban, rural and
natural resource areas;
3.  the equitable distribution of costs, based upon benefits received from the public utility system
or facility; and the environmental, social, and economic impacts.

In developing policies and strategies, the County will seek to ensure that public services and facilities
plans and capital improvements programs will result in the following:
1.  Coordination of land use planning and provision of appropriate types and levels of public
facilities.
2.  Coordination of a full range of public facilities and services among all agencies responsible for
providing them.
3.  Provision of adequate facilities and services for existing uses.
4.  Maintenance of an adequate inventory of buildable land.
5.  Protection of natural resource and rural areas.
6.  Timely development of public services and facilities in urbanizable areas within resource
limitations.
Policy 33a Transportation System
The County's Policy is to implement a balanced, safe and efficient transportation system, in
evaluating parts of the system, the County will support proposals which:
A. Implement the comprehensive plan;
B. Best achieve the objectives of the specific project;
C. Protect or enhance water and air quality and reduce noise levels;
D. Protect social values and the quality of neighborhoods and communities;
E. Support economic growth;
F. Provide a safe, functional and convenient system; and
G. Provide optimum efficiency and effectiveness of investment.
H. Update and refine the bicycle corridor concept plan,
I. The County will also consider:
Equality of access to urban opportunities;
J. The degree of mobility available to all people in terms of alternative types of transportation;
K. Energy conservation and efficiency;
L. System flexibility;
M. Pedestrian crossing and safety; and
N. The need for landscaping and other design techniques Necessary for visual enhancement.
Policy 33b Marine Transportation System
Ensures that Multnomah County takes appropriate action to provide for needed marine
transportation system facilities in those areas of the Portland region within its jurisdiction. The
system includes appropriate backup land for marine terminal and waterfront industrial facilities.
This policy addresses the Columbia River shipping channel only and does not include Multnomah
Channel.
Policy 33c Bicycle/Pedestrian System
It is the County's Policy to create a balanced transportation system by implementing bicycle and
pedestrian systems as integral parts of the County-wide transportation system.
Policy 34 Trafficways
Trafficways are a vital part of the transportation system in Multnomah County, functioning to move
people and goods between their origins and destinations. A hierarchy of trafficways provides
necessary access to land uses, and mobility to travelers and commerce. The trafficway network
accommodates several modes of travel within public right-of-way, and acknowledges differing
transportation needs between the urban and rural areas of the County. Communication and power
networks, and public utilities including storm and sanitary sewers, and water supply share the right-
of-way with roads.

Trafficways are developed according to their functional classification, which distinguishes streets
and roads, by their operational purposes. Many aspects are considered when classifying trafficways:
• Travel characteristics: trip length, origin and destination
• Intensity and density of land uses served: urban and rural
• Travel modes to be served: automobiles, bicycles, transit, trucks, and pedestrians
• Relationship between traffic movement and access management
• Projected traffic volumes and capacity requirements at acceptable levels of service

The purpose of this Policy is to direct the County to develop the existing trafficway system to
maximize efficiency, and to consider the mobility of pedestrians by providing safe crossings.
The County's Policy is to develop a safe and efficient trafficway system using the existing road
network, and by:
A. Maintaining a trafficway classification system;
B. Improving streets to the standards established by the classification system, where necessary,
and/or appropriate to mitigate identified transportation problems and to accommodate existing
implemented and planned pedestrian, bicycle (Policy 33c), and transit facilities (Policy 35) as
established in the County, regional, and local transportation plans;
C. Placing priority on maintaining the existing trafficways;
D. Developing additional transportation facilities to meet community and regional transportation
needs where capacity of the existing system has been maximized through transportation system
management and demand management measures;
Average Daily Traffic by County Street Classifications chart here
E. Providing safe and convenient bicycle and transit facilities and a pedestrian environment with
road crossings and sidewalk network designed for pedestrian travel in accordance with Policy
33c: Bikeways/Pedestrian System and Policy 35: Public Transportation;
F. Limiting the number of and consolidating ingress and egress points on arterials and major
collectors to preserve traffic flow and on rural local roads to limit rural commercial development, as
necessary;
G. Reducing reliance on the automobile and assuring that the Planned transportation system
supports patterns of travel and land use which will avoid or mitigate problems of air pollution,
Traffic congestion and community liveability;
H. Encouraging ride-share and flextime programs to help meet the projected increase in travel
demand. The County will work with metro and tri-met to develop ride-share programs, flextime and
other transportation demand strategies to achieve the ride-share goal given in the regional
transportation plan; and
I. Implementing the preferred street standards chapter 29.500, administrative rule or the County
Design and Construction Manual, including adherence to access control and intersection design
guideline criteria,; and establishing a procedure for allowing deviation from the preferred standard
only when a physical obstacle prevents construction to the preferred standard or when the
appropriate local jurisdiction’s Transportation System Plan provides an alternate adopted standard.
In all cases, roadways shall be constructed to standards within the County’s allowable ranges for the
appropriate classification.
J. Considering and allowing for implementation of regional street design elements including
reduction of excessive standards (as shown in Creating Livable Streets: Street Design for 2040
(1997)) Guidelines (Second Edition, June 2002) when planning for improvements to facilities
designated on Metro’s Regional Street Design Map or on roadways in urban unincorporated
areas.
[Added 1999, Ord. 926 § II]
K. Improving local circulation by keeping through trips on arterial streets and minimizing local trip
lengths by increasing street connectivity. [Added 1999, Ord. 926 § II]
L. Ensuring that on-street parking is provided in accordance with county street standards and
coordinating with cities to implement Metro’s regional 10 percent reduction goal.
M.Ensuring that additional right-of-way is dedicated at intersections that are currently signalized
and that potentially may be signalized in order to comply with the Americans with Disabilities
Act.
Policy 35 Public Transportation
The purpose of this Policy is to direct the County to consider the effects of land use decisions on the
efficient provision of public transportation, and to continually review the Tri-Met routes to
determine that the County residents are receiving the best possible service.

The County's Policy is to support a safe, efficient and convenient public transportation system by:
A. Increasing overall density levels in the urban area, particularly at light rail stations,
B. Locating population concentrations, commercial centers, employment centers, and public
facilities in areas which can be served by public transportation,
C. Making improvements to public transportation corridors which enhance rider convenience,
comfort, access and reduced travel time, and
D. Communicating community needs to the agencies responsible for public transportation planning,
programming and funding.
E. Supporting implementation of the I-205 transitway.
F. Implementing the publicly funded elements of the transit station plan as soon as possible.
G. Designating regional transit trunk routes, transit centers and park-and-ride lots as required by the
regional transportation plan of the Portland Metropolitan Area as shown on the regional transit
trunk route map.
Policy 36 Transportation Development Requirements
The County's Policy is to increase the efficiency and aesthetic quality of the trafficways and public
transportation by requiring:
A. The dedication of additional right-of-way appropriate to the functional classification of the street
given in Policy 34 and chapter 11.60.
B. The number of ingress and egress points be consolidated through joint use agreements,
C. Vehicular and truck off-street parking and loading areas,
D. Off-street bus loading areas and shelters for riders,
E. Street trees to be planted,
F. A pedestrian circulation system as given in the sidewalk provisions, chapter 11.60,
G. Implementation of the bicycle corridor capital improvements program,
H. Bicycle parking facilities at bicycle and public transportation sections in new commercial,
industrial and business developments, and
I. New streets improved to County standards in unincorporated County may be designated public
access roads and maintained by the County until annexed into a city, as stated in ordinance 313.

Relevant 1997 SIMC Plan Policies regarding Transportation
The following policies are quoted in  from the 1997 Sauvie Island Multnomah Channel Rural Area Plan .
POLICY 21: Recommend that the Multnomah County Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory
Committee has significant Sauvie Island representation.
STRATEGY: Multnomah County shall implement this policy through the appointment process for the
Committee.
POLICY 22: Have the Multnomah County Bicycle and Pedestrian Citizen Advisory
Committee study and recommend to the Board of Commissioners short-term and
long-term solutions to safely accommodate bicyclists, pedestrians, and motor
vehicles on Sauvie Island including on-road bikeways, separated multi-use paths, and
funding options.
STRATEGY: Multnomah County shall implement this policy through the work program of the Bicycle &
Pedestrian Citizen Advisory Committee and the Transportation and Land Use Planning Division budget.
POLICY 23: Update Policy 33B Marine Transportation System in the Comprehensive
Framework Plan.
STRATEGY: Multnomah County shall implement this policy through the budgeting process for the
Division of Transportation and Land Use Planning.
POLICY 24: Oppose placement of regional roadways in the Sauvie Island/Multnomah
Channel Rural Area, should such roadways be under consideration by any regional
transportation authority in the future.
STRATEGY: Multnomah County shall use this policy in discussions and recommendations regarding
regional roadways.
POLICY 25: Review rural roadway standards to determine if 8-foot paved shoulder
widths can be reduced to preserve the rural character of roads.
STRATEGY: Multnomah County shall implement this policy through the budgeting process for the
Division of Transportation and Land Use Planning.
POLICY 26: Participate in a cooperative effort with the Sauvie Island Drainage District
and the Army Corps of Engineers to study the dikes upon which public roads run
including funding for dike improvements.
STRATEGY: Multnomah County shall implement this policy by working with the Drainage District and
Corps of Engineers to devise and then implement a process for studying the dikes with roads on them
protecting Sauvie Island.

Note that the Westside Rural Multnomah County Transportation System Plan (TSP) was adopted since
formulation of these policies. The TSP is consistent with the preceding transportation policies and it
specifically implements policies 24 & 25. The TSP is the document Multnomah County will use to review
future developments and transportation improvements.

Relevant 1998 Westside Rural Multnomah County Transportation System Plan
Policies regarding Transportation
Goals,  Objectives and Policies from 1998 TSP
Goal 1:  Implement a transportation system that is safe and efficient in meeting the needs of area
residents and those traveling through the area.
 Objective A:  Provide a transportation system that addresses safety concerns for all modes of
travel
Policy: Improve roadways to attain appropriate safety levels for all motorized and
non-motorized traffic
 Implementation strategies:
•  Monitor accident rates for all modes of transportation and
recommend implementation of low-cost operational
improvements within budgetary limits. Target resources to
reduce accident potential in the top 10 percent of accident
locations
•  Continue to monitor high accident location sites for all modes of
transportation
•  Implement access management standards to reduce vehicle
conflicts and maintain the rural character of the area

…
Policy: Actively support safe travel speeds on the transportation system
 Implementation strategies:
•  Support speed limit enforcement
•  Apply design standards that encourage appropriate motor
vehicle and truck speeds.
Objective B:  Provide a transportation system that is convenient and limits congestion while
meeting minimum safety standards
  Policy: Review adopted design standards to determine if 4 feet paved shoulders
adequately meet safety standards for all modes of travel.
  Implementation Strategies:
•  Support the Street Design Guidelines for 2040 and apply them
appropriately to maintain the rural character of Multnomah
County
•  Support Title 6 of the Urban Growth Management Functional
Plan and apply level of service standards appropriately to
maintain the character of rural Multnomah County.
Goal 2:  Implement a balanced transportation system that supports all modes of travel.
 Objective A:  Establish a transportation system that accommodates a variety of methods of
travel and minimizes reliance on a single travel mode
  Policy: Encourage the use of ride sharing facilities
   Implementation Strategies
•  Support safe and convenient park and ride facilities for car pools
and transit service in convenient and appropriate locations
•  Encourage the placement of bike lockers at all park and
ride/park and car pool locations. Support and promote their
use.
•  Coordinate with other agencies to assist users with convenient
services (e.g. ride share matching)
  Policy: Encourage mobility for the transportation disadvantaged.
   Implementation Strategy
•  Work with public transportation providers to monitor and
provide for the transportation needs of the transportation
disadvantaged.
  Policy: Support the development of multi-use paths.
   Implementation Strategy
•  Coordinate multi-use trail transportation needs with Metro
Parks and Green Spaces
Goal 3: Develop a transportation system that supports the rural character of West Multnomah County
 Objective A:  Maintain a transportation system that supports the surrounding rural land use
designations
  Policy: Discourage through traffic on trafficways with functional classification of rural
local road
   Implementation Strategies
•  Reduce travel conflicts by providing appropriate facilities, signs,
and traffic markings based upon user type and travel mode
•  On rural local roads with heavy through traffic, consider
implementing appropriate traffic-calming measures to reduce
such traffic
 Objective B:  Provide a transportation system that minimizes impacts to wildlife and agricultural
resources.
  Policy: Apply roadway design safety standards appropriately by balancing the needs of
the travelling public and minimizing negative impacts to the environment.
   Implementation Strategies
•  Develop and implement a design exception process that
considers the relative and incremental benefits of
implementation costs and impacts to the environment
•  Assess implications of fish passage requirements on county
facilities and develop a program for retrofitting drainage
facilities
•  Adopt and apply drainage system design guidelines and
standards to accommodate fish passage
•  Adopt and apply rural roadway shoulder standards that
preserve the rural character of the area
•  Adopt and apply rural roadway standards that accommodate
wildlife migration
 Objective C:  Maintain the beauty of the area by preserving critical view sheds
  Policy: Encourage the placement of new pipelines and transmissions lines in existing
right-of-way whenever possible
   Implementation Strategies
•  Develop general guidelines for utility placement within the
county right-of-way that reduce the number of conflicts and
cost of implementation
•  Enhance the rural character and scenic qualities of the area by
placing utilities underground when possible
•  Coordinate improvements with utility companies through
regular status meetings to maintain and preserve the beauty of
the rural character of west Multnomah County.
 Objective D:  Ensure the transportation plan meets federal, state and regional air, water, and
noise standards
  Policy: Coordinate transportation improvement proj ects with appropriate regulatory
agencies
   Implementation Strategies
•  Retrofit existing facilities to meet regulatory requirements
within budgetary limits.
•  Obtain permits as necessary for transportation improvement
projects and maintenance activities
Goal 4:  Develop a transportation system the supports a healthy economy
 Objective A:  Provide a convenient access while maintaining movement of freight along the U.S.
Corridor 30
  Policy: Provide ongoing coordination with state, r egional, and local business interests
to assure efficient movement of goods and services
   Implementation Strategies
•  Participate in, support, and adopt the U.S. 30 Corridor Plan
•  Provide for auxiliary turn lanes on road connections to U.S. 30
to achieve acceptable operating levels of service
  Policy: Promote transportation alternatives for t he movement of freight.
   Implementation strategies:
•  Encourage rail operators to maintain rail service within the U.S.
30 corridor
•  Support the movement of freight on the Columbia River,
including the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ study of deepening
the Lower Columbia River navigation channel to accommodate
deep draft ships.
 Objective B:  Preserve the function and safety of the transportation system.
  Policy: Provide a transportation system that ensur es economically viable
transportation of goods from farm to market.
   Implementation Strategies
•  Conduct a study of the Sauvie Island Bridge
•  Conduct a study of Cornelius Pass Road
  Policy: Coordinate transportation system management activities with interested and
affected stakeholders
   Implementation Strategies
•  Wok with property owners to consolidate existing accesses
when possible and as appropriate to access management
standards
•  Support limited accesses along U.S. 30 to the extent possible.
Support access management along U.S. 30 in accordance with
ODOT’s Access Management Standards.

Goal 5:  Provide transportation improvements in a timely manner according to funding capability.
 Objective A:  Maximize cost-effectiveness of transportation improvements using the Capital
Improvement Plan process.
  Policy: Invest in safety and maintenance improvem ents
   Implementing strategies
•  Accelerate shoulder paving to safely accommodate automobile,
bicycle, and pedestrian use.
•  Make intersection improvements to improve safety, sight
distance, and intersection efficiency.
•  Continue to provide opportunities to educate and inform
citizens with easy-to-understand materials on transportation
finance.
•  Ensure the Capital Improvement Plan evaluation criteria
adequately evaluates rural needs.
Relevant Zoning Ordinance Provisions
Multnomah County  Road Rules (MCRR)

The purpose of these rules is to govern the administration of roads under the jurisdiction of
Multnomah County in accordance with MCC 29.500 through 29.999 and in keeping with Policies 32,
33, 34, 35, 36, 37 and 38 of the County Comprehensive Framework Plan.

These rules provide the link between the County Code provisions of MCC 29.500, et seq and the
Design and Construction Manual adopted under the provisions of these rules pursuant to MCC
29.571. In addition, these rules are the “Street Standards Rules” referenced in the Land Division
Code parts of the Multnomah County Zoning Code Chapters and are therefore one of the
implementation tools for establishing standards for street design and improvements.

The full document can be found online at: http://web.multco.us/sites/default/files/transportation-
planning/documents/final_road_rules04.pdf

Current Functional Class Map
Multnomah County Design and Construction Manual (DCM)

The Multnomah County Design and Construction Manual includes the engineering standards and
specifications to be followed in the design and construction of new and improved roadways in
Multnomah County. The document supplements the Multnomah County Street Standards - Rules
document, which includes all administrative procedures to be followed with respect to roadway
design and construction, including plan preparation format, permitting, and variances.

The Design and Construction Manual is a comprehensive reference to all relevant roadway design
standards in Multnomah County. The standards and specifications are to be applied on all roadways
either currently under County jurisdiction, or for which the County will assume maintenance
responsibility upon the completion of construction.

The manual is divided into two other parts:
Part I: Design Manual, includes all roadway design-related standards, with sections covering traffic
planning, geometric design, drainage, landscaping/urban design, and traffic engineering design.

Part II: Construction Manual, includes all procedures and specifications related to roadway
construction. Sections covering traffic, roadway, drainage, and landscaping/urban design
construction are presented.

Appendix A: Level of Service, describes the concept of level of service criteria and how it used to
evaluate the performance of transportation facilities including unsignalized and signalized
intersections, rural and suburban highways, urban and suburban arterials, etc.

The document can be found on line at:
http://web.multco.us/sites/default/files/roads/documents/multnomahco_dcm.pdf

Design Level of Service per the Design and Construction Manual

The roadway level of service (LOS) concept is applied in the U.S. as a qualitative assessment of the
road user's perception of the quality of flow. LOS is represented by one of the letters "A" through
"F," with "A" representing free flow operation and "F" stop and go operation. LOS reflects the
quality of flow as measured by some scale of driver satisfaction. Measures of effectiveness such as
average travel speed, volume to capacity ratio, average seconds of delay, and others have been
developed to approximate these qualitative representations quantitatively. Different measures of
effectiveness are used for different types of roadways because the user's perception of quality of
flow varies by road type. Appendix B of the Design and Construction Manual discusses the level of
service concept in greater detail related to rural/suburban highways, urban/suburban arterials, and
signalized/unsignalized intersections.
All new and improved arterial and major collector roadways in urban areas shall be designed to
accommodate a level of service "D" or better during the design hour. In rural areas, such facilities
shall be designed to accommodate level of service "C" or better during the design hour. On
neighborhood collectors in urban areas, the design level of service shall also be "C" or better. In
special circumstances, such as downtown central business districts or designated regional centers,
level of service "E" might be acceptable for roadway design purposes, if approved by the County
Engineer. Local streets intersecting arterials or collectors may be level of service ”F” during the peak
hour if approved by the County Engineer.
Rural Collector and Rural Local Cross Sections Applicable to the Plan Area

SECTION 6: RELEVANT STATE AND REGIONAL AGENCY PLANS & RULES
Coordination with other jurisdictions and service providers and achieving consistency with other
planning work were important parts of the development of the transportation policies.  This includes:
compliance with the Oregon Transportation Planning Rule; coordination with the Regional
Transportation plan; and coordination with the Oregon Transportation Plan and Oregon Highway Plan.
Further compliance will be addressed as part of the Transportation System Plan (TSP) update that is yet
to be completed.

Section 7: PROPOSED TRANSPORTATION POLICY FRAMEWORK
Preliminary Recommendations to Resolve Issues Identified in Section 1
TO BE PROVIDED BASED ON RESULTS OF FEBRUARY 18, 2014 SUBCOMMITTEE MEETING
Section 8: Subcommittee Meeting Process
Agendas
[INCLUDE AGENDAS FOR SUBCOMMITTEE MEETINGS]
Meeting Summaries
[INCLUDE FUTURE MEETING SUMMARIES FROM SUBCOMMITTEE MEETINGS]
Documents & Materials Considered
TO BE PROVIDED
Detailed Findings & Recommendations
TO BE PROVIDED