BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
RESOLUTION NO. 2020-109
Authorizing the Acquisition of Real Property for the BHRC Renovation Project.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. It is necessary for Multnomah County to acquire the real property interests
described in attached Exhibit 1 (the “Property”) for purposes of renovating and
constructing the Behavioral Health Resource Center (BHRC ) Renovation Project,
situated downtown in the City of Portland, Multnomah County (the “Project”).
b. The Project has been planned and located in a manner that is most compatible
with the greatest public good and the least private injury.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves:
1. It is necessary to acquire the Property described in Exhibit 1 for purposes of the
Project.
2. Multnomah County Facilities and Property Management Division (Division) is
directed to begin negotiations to acq uire the Property in accordance with all
applicable laws, rules, and regulations governing such acquisition.  Legal counsel
is directed to assist the Division as necessary in such negotiations.
3. In the event that no satisfactory agreement can be reached with the owners of the
Property as to the purchase price, legal counsel is authorized and directed to
commence and prosecute to final determination such condemnation proceedings
as may be necessary to acquire the Property. Such action shall be in a ccordance
with all applicable laws, rules, and regulations governing such acquisition.
4. Upon final determination of any such proceeding, the deposit of funds and payment
of judgment conveying the Property to the County is authorized.
5. It is necessary to ob tain possession of the Property as soon as possible to allow
construction to proceed and be completed on schedule within budgetary
limitations.
6. Legal counsel is authorized and directed to take such action as may be necessary
in accordance with law to obta in possession of the Property as soon as possible.
Legal counsel is directed to diligently pursue negotiations to resolve the litigation.
7. If necessary, the creation of a fund is authorized in the amount of the estimate of
just compensation for the Property, which shall, upon obtaining possession of the
Property, be deposited with the Clerk of the Court wherein the action was
commenced for the use of the defendant in the action, and the Director of the
Finance Division is authorized to draw a warrant o n the Facilities Fund of the
County in such sum for deposit.
ADOPTED this 17th day of December 2020.
SUBMITTED BY: Tracey Massey, Interim Director, Department of County Assets.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Deborah Kafoury, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY MADOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
EXHIBIT 1
Parcel 1 - Temporary Easement
Parcel 2 - Temporary Easement