BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
RESOLUTION NO.  2021-086
Approving the Arbor Lodge Shelter Renovation FAC -1 Preliminary Planning Proposal and
Project Plan.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. The Arbor Lodge Shelter is an owned property of Multnomah County located at 1952 N.
Lombard Street, Portland, Oregon.
b. In December of 2020, as part of its COVID-19 response and utilizing resources from the
Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act’s Coronavirus Relief Fund, the
County acquired what is now known as the future Arbor Lodge Shelter, a former
commercial retail space in North Portland, for $2.6 million, to expand emergency shelter
capacity. Since that time, and while initial redevelopment planning was underway to
retrofit the site for permanent use as a shelter, it has been used as a temporary
emergency shelter and vaccination clinic.
c. Carleton Hart Architecture (CHA) is leading the project design team including the Joint
Office of Homeless Services (JOHS), the anticipated shelter service provider,
Multnomah County Facilities & Property Management and S hiels Obletz Johnsen, in a
consulting capacity. Construction is anticipated to begin in late 2022 and be completed
in 2023.  Upon completion of the Competitive bidding phase, JOHS and FPM will return
for permission to move forward with the construction phase of the project.
d. The current planning is for the Arbor Lodge Shelter to serve up to 120 people with a
combination of between 80 and 90 congregate beds and an additional 18 - 20 pods on
the grounds outside of the main building. It will prioritize placements for individuals living
in the adjacent neighborhood and will be a mixed-gender, adult-only facility.
e. During the 2021 Legislative Session, the Legislature allocated $5.0 million in House Bill
5006 to fund this redevelopment project. The overall pro ject budget is projected to be
between $4,500,000 and $5,000,000. Anticipated expenses for programming, design
(schematic, design development, and construction documents), project consultants,
administration, and permitting are anticipated to be approximately $860,000 in FY 2022.
f. Consistent with this Resolution, Design Drawings and the Project Documents are being
prepared for construction. The FAC-1 policy requires Board approval at each significant
milestone.
g. The Project team has prepared the Arbor Lodge Shelter Renovation FAC-1 Preliminary
Planning Proposal and Project Plan, including specified Next Step Activities (“Project
Plan”), enclosed with this agenda item and recommends Board approval thereof.
h. Approval of the Project Plan is in the best interests of Multnomah County.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves:
The Project Plan is approved and the Next Step Activities are authorized, including, but not
limited to, the solicitation of bids or proposals to construct the Project.
ADOPTED this 18th day of November, 2021.
SUBMITTED BY: Tracey Massey, Director, Department of County Assets
Deborah Kafoury, Chair
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON