BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON  PROCLAMATION NO. 2024-038  Proclaiming the Month of May 2024 as Older Americans Month in Multnomah County, Oregon.  The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:  A. Multnomah County’s older adults and elders have helped build and shape this community through contributing their time, wisdom and experience. The 2024 theme is Powered by Connection, which recognizes the profound impact that meaningful relationships and social connections have on our health and well-being". Reference: https://acl.gov/oam/2024/older-americans-month-2024#:~:text=Every%20May%2C%20the%20Administration%20for,our%20health%20and%20well%2Dbeing. Since 1963, May is a time to uplift these contributions and to highlight the importance of independence and choice as people in our community age. B. Supporting the well-being and positive aging experience of older adults and elders in our community by challenging predominant narratives about aging affirms our commitment to exploring and combating stereotypes, emphasizing the many positive aspects of aging, and embracing the diversity of our residents.  C. Area Agencies on Aging coordinate and provide an array of traditional and innovative services to all people 60 years and older, regardless of income, both at home and in the community.  D. The Aging, Disability and Veterans Services Division, as the designated Area Agency on Aging, along with its network of partners provide access to Older Americans Act programs and services that reflect and affirm the diverse people, cultures and languages of older adults and elders. E. Older adults and elders across Multnomah County are served by seventeen (17) contracted providers that deliver services that are culturally responsive, nine (9) of which provide culturally specific services.  F. The aim of the Area Agencies on Aging and Older Americans Act Programs is to allow older adults to age in place aided by services such as home-delivered meals, housekeeping assistance, health promotion programing and access to legal advice.   The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:  May 2024 is Older Americans Month, a time to recognize that we all benefit when people of all ages, abilities, backgrounds, identities have the opportunity to grow old and
determine their own path as they age. Consistent with this year’s national theme,
“Powered by Connection,” we ask people in Multnomah County to recognize and
celebrate older adults and elders in their communities.
ADOPTED this 30th day of May, 2024.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By:
      Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney
SUBMITTED BY: Mohammad Bader, Director of DCHS