BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON

PROCLAMATION NO. 2024-083

Proclaiming October 2024 as National Cyber Security Awareness Month in Multnomah County,
Oregon.

The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
A. Counties recognize the vital roles they play in identifying, protecting community
members from, and responding to cybersecurity threats that may have significant impact
to individual and collective safety and privacy.
B. Critical infrastructure (i.e., financial services, educational institutions, energy,
telecommunications, transportation, utilities, health care, and emergency response
systems, etc.) is increasingly reliant on the support of information systems and
technology.
C. Cybersecurity education and awareness is crucial for everyone, including large
corporations, small businesses, financial institutions, schools, government agencies, the
home user, and anyone who connects to the internet, be it with a computer, mobile
phone, or other internet-connected device.
D. Monitoring accounts, being conscientious of what is shared online, keeping computer
software up to date, creating unique passwords and changing them regularly, installing
antivirus programs and firewalls, and using mobile devices and other internet-connect
devices safely are ways individuals and organizations can protect themselves from
phishing, viruses, ransomware, other types of malware, financial loss, and loss of
sensitive data.
E. There is a need to inspire, engage, and inform the public about the demand,
opportunities, and career options available within the area of cybersecurity. Building the
nation’s and Multnomah County’s cybersecurity workforce enhances the nation’s
security and promotes economic prosperity.
F. Multnomah County is dedicated to providing every individual and public and private
organization in Multnomah County the resources necessary to ensure the
understanding, implementation, and success of Cybersecurity Awareness Month to help
the residents of Multnomah County stay safe online and connect with confidence.
G. The STOP. THINK. CONNECT.™ Campaign serves as the national cybersecurity public
awareness campaign, implemented through a coalition of private companies, nonprofit,
government organizations, and academic institutions working together to increase the
public’s understanding of cyber threats and empowering Americans to be safer and
more secure online; and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)
Cybersecurity Workforce Framework is a free resource to help organizations (both large
and small, public, and private) improve their cybersecurity practices through a practical
approach to addressing the ever-evolving cybersecurity threats and challenges.
H. Maintaining the security of cyberspace is a shared responsibility in which each of us has
a critical role to play, and awareness of essential cyber hygiene will improve the security
of Multnomah County, Oregon’s information, infrastructure, and economy.
I. The County Cyber Security Program was established in April 2018 to enhance and
protect Multnomah County, Oregon’s cybersecurity ecosystem.
J. The Federal Government of the United States of America, the U.S. Department of
Homeland Security’s Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (www.cisa.gov),
the Multi-State Information Sharing and Analysis Center (https://www.cisecurity.org/ms-
isac), the National Association of State Chief Information Officers (www.nascio.org), and
the National Cyber Security Alliance (www.staysafeonline.org) all recognize October as
Cybersecurity Awareness Month; and all citizens are encouraged to visit these websites,
and the STOP. THINK. CONNECT.™ Campaign website
(www.cisa.gov/stopthinkconnect or www.stopthinkconnect.org) to learn about
cybersecurity to put that knowledge into practice in their homes, schools, workplaces,
and businesses;
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
October 2024 as Cybersecurity Awareness Month in Multnomah County, Oregon..
ADOPTED this 3rd day of October, 2024.
SUBMITTED BY: Tracey Massey, Director, Department of County Assets and CIO
 Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By: