BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
PROCLAMATION NO. 2022-075
Proclaiming August 1st to 7th, 2022 as World Breastfeeding Week in Multnomah County,
Oregon.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
1. August is National Breastfeeding Month, an initiative designed to celebrate,
support, and promote awareness of the benefits of breastfeeding.
2. The World Breastfeeding Week campaign aims to inform, anchor, engage and
galvanize action on breastfeeding and related issues.
3. Black Breastfeeding Week is an initiative intended to celebrate and encourage
Black women to breastfeed.
4. Racial inequities in breastfeeding rates persist and are the result of barriers in
healthcare, employment, and community settings as well as racial and ethnic
discrimination.
5. Multnomah County recognizes the physical and mental benefits of breastfeeding
for both babies and mothers, as well as the importance of reducing racial
disparities in healthcare and birth outcomes for babies.
6. Multnomah County recognizes the importance of having employer focused
breastfeeding as employers that provide workplace lactation support experience
an impressive return on investment, including lower health care costs,
absenteeism, and turnover rates, and improved morale, job satisfaction, and
productivity, and breastfeeding is economical, providing its benefits at little or no
cost and providing a safe, renewable food source, especially critical during natural
disaster and emergency situations.
7. Multnomah County is committed to establishing a B reastfeeding Medicine Center
dedicated to improving the health outcomes  and infant mortality rates of
mother/baby and dads of color by providing access to culturally supported
evidenced based Lactation Consultant Provider services for Women of Color in
Oregon.
8. Promoting diversity in the lactation field and applauding the work of community
breastfeeding champions is very important, and Black Breastfeeding Week
provides the opportunity to encourage government agencies, community -based
organizations, and academic institutions to share this message and work together
to engage in equity efforts in their communities.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
August 1st to 7th, 2022 as World Breastfeeding Week in Multnomah County, Oregon, in
recognition and celebration of the importance of Breastfeeding in our community.
ADOPTED this 4th day of August, 2022.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Lori Stegmann, Vice-Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By
     Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney
SUBMITTED BY: Ebony Clarke, Director