BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
PROCLAMATION NO.
Proclaiming June 15, 2021 as Elder Abuse Awareness Day in Multnomah County.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. Multnomah County is home to more than 150,000 residents age 60 and over.
Older adults deserve to be treated with respect and dignity to enable them to serve
as leaders, mentors, volunteers and thriving members of our communities.
b. Elder abuse is an issue that affects millions of older adults each year. It takes many
forms, including physical abuse, verbal abuse, neglect, exploitation, as  well as
issues of self-neglect.
c. The past year has presented many challenges for older adults, particularly limited
contact with friends, family and others outside of their household due to COVID.
In some situations, this increased isolation and reduced contact with caregivers,
friends, family or medical providers may have resulted in a dditional risk for older
adults.
d. Older adults may not be able or willing to report abuse themselves.  Whether you
are a family member, friend, paid or other professional support, the responsibility
to recognize and report abuse or concerns for their well-being is up to all of us.
e. Partnerships throughout Multnomah County are an important piece in addressing
the issue of elder abuse.  Private organizations, advocacy groups, senior centers,
human services, as well as our connection with local law enforcement agencies
are all valuable and needed par tners in reporting and responding to these
concerns.
f. The promotion of social connection, respect and inclusion of older adults are
important steps in building strong community connections and reducing the
likelihood of abuse and neglect.
2021-041
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
June 15, 2021 as Elder Abuse Awareness Day in Multnomah County. We encourage all
agencies, advocates  and  citizens  to  recognize  the  importance  of  building  a  safe  and
inclusion community for our elder residents.
ADOPTED this 10th day of June, 2021.
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By:
      Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Deborah Kafoury, County Chair