BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
PROCLAMATION NO. 2023-077
Proclaiming September 2023 as Recovery Month in Multnomah County, Oregon.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. Recovery Month is recognized every September. Multnomah County and the
Behavioral Health Division use this time to increase awareness about substance use
disorders and promote our citizens’ rights and promise for recovery. Through
advocacy, education and public recognition of those in recovery, we demonstrate the
power and proof that people can and do achieve long-term recovery goals.
b. Fentanyl and poly-substance use has had an unpredictable, life-threatening impact
on our community. Today’s sound-bite news bombards us with dire images and tries
to convince us that little is being done to slow the use of drugs in our community.
c. We recognize the complexities and challenges that individuals may face at any
phase in their journey to recovery. And, we acknowledge there are both internal and
external barriers that people with substance use challenges face every day.
d. Yet today we pause to write our own headline: Recovery is for Everyone. Every
Person, Every Family, Every Community. Today we pause to call attention to
recovery success stories and give thanks to the tremendous work of peers,
providers, community members and county staff as they strive daily to provide
effective, culturally responsive and trauma-informed treatment and recovery services
for all of our impacted community members.
e. Connection to community is more critical than ever. It is often said that “it takes a
village.” We are that village. Recovery is for everyone - the people who are struggling
with addiction, the people who are in any phase of their recovery journey, the families
affected by those suffering from addiction, and the community members who want
to help. Even those who don’t fully understand this epidemic.
f. Today’s proclamation celebrates hope and aims to reduce stigma surrounding
individuals with substance use challenges. Multnomah County continues to emerge
from more than three years managing the impacts of COVID, including the isolation
that has contributed to an increase in the acuity of issues related to substance use.
g. The Multnomah County Board of County Commissioners, the Health Department
and the Behavioral Health Division is proud to move in partnership with community
treatment and recovery support services providers toward a more hopeful future. We
will continue to reach out to our community members in need of services and support
to overcome substance use challenges, improving our effectiveness and growing our
village.
h. Sharing inspiring stories of recovery builds understanding and promotes wellness for
all Multnomah County residents. September Recovery Month allows us an
opportunity to center around this growing need, and engage our community in
awareness and support of this work.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
The month of September 2023 is proclaimed to be Recovery Month in Multnomah County,
Oregon. All county residents are invited to commit to continuing support of recovery for those
impacted by substance use disorders. This month, we invite you to celebrate those who are
achieving their goals for recovery and wellness, and encourage you to share information
about programs, resources and services to help others take their first steps toward a healthier
life.
ADOPTED this 14th day of September, 2023.
SUBMITTED BY: Heather Mirasol
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By
Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney