BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON

PROCLAMATION NO. 2024-088

Proclaiming October 14th, 2024 as Indigenous Peoples’ Day in Multnomah County,
Oregon.

The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:

A. The Native American, Alaskan Native and Indigenous heritage of Turtle Island, or
what we now call the United States extends since time immemorial and is a vital
influence in our country’s prosperity.

B. The United States rests on the ancestral territory of the Indigenous Tribal Nations of
this region and their homelands and villages with the stolen labor of our African siblings;
and we acknowledge the multi-generational loss of life, loss of land, loss of water and
waterways, loss of language, loss of children, and loss of culture due to the historical
and ongoing colonization of this land that perpetuate the current structural barriers that
impact the Native quality of life.

C. Our name, “Multnomah,” is derived from the Multnomah who are a band of the
Chinookan people and we conduct daily business on Indigenous soil. We recognize that
we are occupants, guests, and stewards of this land, originally cared for by bands of the
Confederated Tribes of Grand Ronde.

D. Indigenous Peoples and Nations have lived here since time immemorial with their
own knowledge, languages, relationships with the environment, advocacy, science,
philosophy, arts and culture. Their historical and present-day contributions,
relationships, history, and advocacy continue to shape the character of our region.

E. Recognizing that we were not the first caretakers of this land and that generations of
Native American people called, and continue to call, this place home, is essential to
where we need to begin as a County and community. If we are intentional about equity
and inclusion, being sincere in our words and actions will consistently result in respect
for Native American people coming first.

F. We are still here. Indigenous Peoples' Day is an opportunity to acknowledge and
celebrate the thriving traditions and deeply rooted values of the Indigenous Peoples who
reside in Multnomah County and their ancestors before them.

G. By honoring and celebrating our region’s first peoples, we are reclaiming a piece of
history and ancestral wisdom, and choosing to no longer observe a time of genocide.

The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
October 14th, 2024 as Indigenous Peoples’ Day in Multnomah County, Oregon, to honor
and celebrate the many contributions made by the Indigenous peoples throughout our
vibrant community. We encourage other businesses, organizations, public institutions
and community members to recognize Indigenous Peoples' Day, and to take time to
learn and teach others around the history and cultural significance of our county and
Indigenous community.
ADOPTED this 17th day of October, 2024.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By:
Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney