BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
RESOLUTION NO. ______

Approving
 an Increased Contract Price for the Bridge Shop Fire Remediation Project.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
A. Multnomah County owns the Bridge Shop building located at 1403 SE Water
Ave., Portland, Oregon (“Building”).
B. In Fiscal Year 2024, a fire started at the Building due to a fuel leak on a piece of
equipment.  The fire caused extensive damage to the garage as well as the
adjacent office space. All of the infrastructure was damaged beyond repair
requiring a full remodel of both the garage and adjacent spaces.
C. Through a Request for Proposal (“RFP”) process a contract for the Bridge Shop
Fire Remediation Project (the “Project”) was awarded to general contractor
Buildskape, LLC (“Contract”).
D. After the Contract was signed, unforeseen issues were discovered amounting to
$488,000 in additional costs.
E. One of the change orders included repairing an existing stairlift. However, parts
and materials to repair or replace the stairlift were discovered to no longer be
available. With parts and materials no longer available, and the existing stairlift
requiring a second person to assist individuals using wheelchairs, the Project
team proposed replacing the existing stairlift with a platform lift. This upgrade will
enable individuals in mobility devices to operate the lift independently, provide
easy access for motorized chairs to the upper level, and ensure the building
complies with current Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”) code standards.
F. Of the $488,000 in additional costs, insurance will cover $338,000 of the
remediation change order costs that were existing parts of the building at the
time of the fire. Insurance will not cover the full cost of a new platform lift, as it
was not an existing part of the building. To address this funding gap, $150,000
has been allocated for the ADA lift from Capital Improvement Fund Program
Offer 78206.
G. The cost for the additional work performed by the contractor requires Board
approval pursuant to Public Contract Review Board (PCRB) 49-0910(3), due to
the increased costs of the Contract for renovation and remodeling exceeding
33% of the original Contract price.
2025-062
H. Sufficient funds are appropriated within the FY 2026 budget. No additional
funding is requested.
I. Approval of the increased Contract price from $1,098,524 to $1,586,524
(“Increased Contract Price”) is in the best interests of Multnomah County.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves:
Pursuant to PCRB 49-0910(3), the Increased Contract Price is approved.
ADOPTED this __ day of _______, 20__.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By:
Andrew MacKendrick, Sr. Assistant County
Attorney
SUBMITTED BY:
Tracey Massey, Department of County Assets Director and CIO
30th
October