BEFORE THE MULTNOMAH COUNTY LIBRARY DISTRICT BOARD
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
RESOLUTION NO. 2024-091
Declaring the Gresham Library, Located at 385 NW Miller Ave., Gresham, Surplus; and
Establishing a Public Comment Period.
The Multnomah County Library District Board Finds:
A. This matter comes to the Board pursuant to Resolution No. 2018-005, which establishes
the County's policy for declaring property surplus and establishing a public comment
period.
B. County real property may be declared surplus and thereafter, sold,
exchanged, or otherwise conveyed or transferred ("disposed") whenever such property
is not needed for public use or whenever the public interest may be furthered by
disposition thereof ("Surplus").
C. The building located at 385 NW Miller Ave., Gresham (the “Property”) is owned  by the
Multnomah County Library District (“MCL”) and used as the Gresham Library. However,
MCL is now building the future East County Library less than one mile away at 1297 NW
Eastman Pkwy, Gresham as part of the Library Capital Bond Program. Upon completion
of the new library, the Property will no longer be needed for MCL purposes and
proceeds from the disposition of this Property are currently planned to be directed
toward the East County Library project budget within the bond program. The Multnomah
County Director of Facilities & Property Management Division (“Director”) has
determined that there is no other current or anticipated County use for the Property, as
required by Resolution No. 2018-005.  Accordingly, the Property is not needed for public
use and is appropriate for disposition.  Further, given the absence of a County use for
the Property, the public interest will be furthered by disposition of the Property.
D. Based upon the nature and circumstances of the Property, the Director recommends a
21-day period during which the public may obtain additional information on the
recommendation from the Director and may submit comments regarding the future use
of the Property to the Director.
E. It is in the best interests of the County to act on the Director's determinations and
recommendations.
The Multnomah County Library District Board Resolves:
A. The Property is declared surplus.
B. The Director is directed to take appropriate steps towards preparing the Property for
disposition and to return to the Board at a future public meeting with a recommendation
on disposition of the Property.
C. In order to afford all those interested in this matter the opportunity to obtain additional
information on the matter or to submit comment regarding future use of the Property,
the Director shall not return to the Board with a recommendation on disposition of the
Property prior to a period of 21 days commencing on the date of adoption of this
Resolution ("Comment Period").
ADOPTED this 17th day of October, 2024.
MULTNOMAH COUNTY LIBRARY
DISTRICT BOARD
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By:
SUBMITTED BY: Tracey Massey, CIO and Director, DCA
     Andrew MacKendrick, Sr. Asst. County Attorney