Page 1 of 2 – Resolution authorizing an Internal Loan from the Risk Management Fund (3500) to the
Behavioral Health Resource Center Capital Fund (2516) in the amount of $7,062,417 to provide
interim funding for the Behavioral Health Resource Center Capital project.
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
RESOLUTION NO.  2022-031
Resolution authorizing an Internal Loan from the Risk Management Fund  (3500) to the
Behavioral Health Resource Center Capital Fund (2516) in the amount of $7,062,417 to provide
interim funding for the Behavioral Health Resource Center capital project.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. The Behavioral Health Resource Center (BHRC) will be a  dedicated resource center
providing services during the day, overnight shelter, and transition housing to serve the growing
numbers of people with disabling conditions, including behavioral health issues such as mental
illness and substance use disorders who experience homelessness.
b. The BHRC project team (Multnomah County Behavioral Health Division, Facilities and
Property Management, The Klosh Group, Carleton Hart Architects, and Mortenson
Construction) have completed the feasibility, planning, and design phases of the projects and
now are in the construction phase of the capital project. The total project costs are estimated
at $26 million, including soft and construction costs. The project is expected to be fully complete
in summer of 2022 and open for services in the fall of 2022
c. The BHRC project is being funded by County general fund, State of Oregon grant, and
may receive additional federal funding at a later date. The funding ($10 million) committed by
the State of Oregon will be via video lottery bonds which will not occur until the spring of 2023.
d. BHRC project expenditures attributed to State funding will be incurred before receipt of
grant funds. The State of Oregon has approved project expenditures to be incurred prior to
award date. The internal loan in the amount of $7,062,417 wil l bridge the cash flow timing of
State grant funds.
e. As provided under ORS 294.468, the Board of County Commissioners  may authorize
by resolution the use of an internal (“Interfund”) loan to finance capital needs (design,
acquisition, construction, installation , or improvement of real property)  provided that the loan
term not exceed 10 years.
f. There is sufficient cash in the Risk Management Fund to make an Interfund  loan of
$7,062,417 to the Behavioral Health Resource Center Capital Fund.
g. The Interfund loan will be processed in April 2022. The Behavioral Health Resource
Center Capital Fund will repay the Risk Management Fund upon receipt of State grands fund,
estimated at 12-14 months, there will be one principal and interest payment. Interest will accrue
on the loan at the rate the County earns in the Local Government Investment Pool. Total
interest costs are estimated at $35K over term of loan.
Page 2 of 2 – Resolution authorizing an Internal Loan from the Risk Management Fund (3500) to the
Behavioral Health Resource Center Capital Fund (2516) in the amount of $7,062,417 to provide
interim funding for the Behavioral Health Resource Center Capital project.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves:
1. In order to bridge the timing in State grant funds committed to the Behavioral Health
Resource Center capital project an internal loan is necessary to ensure capital fund has
sufficient cash to meet project obligations.
2. The County authorizes the Chief Financial Officer to make the necessary accounting
transaction in FY 2022 to loan $7,062,417  from the Risk Manage ment Fund to the
Behavioral Health Resource Center Capital Fund to provide project bridge funding.
3. The Behavioral Health Resource Center Capital Fund will repay the Risk Management
Fund for the entire amount of the loan upon receipt of State of Oregon grants committed
to the capital project.
ADOPTED this 21st day of April, 2022.
SUBMITTED BY: Eric Arellano, Chief Financial Officer
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Deborah Kafoury, County Chair