BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
PROCLAMATION NO. 2022-085
Proclaiming September 2022 as Suicide Prevention Awareness Month in Multnomah
County, Oregon.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
A. Suicide Prevention Awareness Month is lifted up every September to increase
awareness that prevention efforts save lives. This year, Mult nomah County’s
Behavioral Health Division will continue leveraging its successful campaign to
“Reach Out,” utilizing social media, health center lobby screens and othe r
platforms to communicate messages of hope, and tips to help all of us recognize
others who would benefit from connection.
B. The County’s longstanding investment in suicide pre - and post-vention services
shows us that anyone may be touched by the traumatic  impact of suicide or
thoughts of suicide - be it through family, friends, or themselves, even an individual
in crisis on the street.
C. Suicide is a public health issue. It disproportionately impacts people of color,
specifically Native Americans and Latine communities. The LGBTQI+ community
is also at high risk, especially those who identify as transgender; they are nearly
12 times more likely to attempt suicide than the general population.
D. In Oregon, suicide is the 2nd leading cause of death for people aged 10 -45, with
youth ages 14-25 also experiencing violent death through homicide, the 3rd
leading cause of death for that cohort. Youth impacted by criminal justice systems,
foster care, homelessness, poverty, and abuse have an increased risk of death by
suicide in Multnomah County. Housing, economic stressors, health, and
relationship issues lead to stressors identified for adults aged  25 through
retirement aged and beyond.
E. Suicide is often the result of an untreated behavioral health condition and 46% of
those who die by suicide had a diagnosed condition. As our residents emerge from
more than two years of pandemic -related isolation, still worried about variants,
racial unrest and continuing systemic racism, job and housing stability, and basic
challenges of daily living, we see multiple components interconnected with
behavioral health-related crises. Increased crisis calls, the sharp rise in opioid
overdoses and methamphetamine related concerns, the emergence of more
powerful drugs such as fentanyl, and a steep jump in gun violence tie together in
Multnomah County’s story.
F. Compassion fatigue is real;  individuals exposed to extended periods of stress
become desensitized to what they see around them. People may walk by when
they see someone in crisis, inured to others’ pain or simply because they don’t
know how to help.
G. Despite these challenges, there is hope. Multnomah County has a workforce
dedicated to supporting individuals in their healing, facilitating connections, and
providing services well before the prospect of suicide is imminent. Community
partners and school districts are actively engaged in efforts to prevent suicides and
spread effective information about how to help those facing a crisis.
H. The County’s public health approach to suicide prevention addres ses the many
factors across the lifespan that can contribute to suicidal behavior. We are focused
on improving the quality of life in Multnomah County with programs and resources
that help families and children gain access to food, healthcare and stable housing,
reduce the traumatic impacts of gun violence, and aid those with substance use
and other behavioral health disorders find their path toward health and wellness.
I. Our Behavioral Health Prevention staff offer multiple supports aimed at reducing
suicide and thoughts of suicide as well as mitigating other behaviors that often lead
to de pression and isolation, like gambling disorders. The Get Trained to Help
program offers free training for community members on how to provide immediate
help and ensure the safety of someone in distress.
J. The Multnomah County Behavioral Health Call Center is staffed by professionals
trained to address immediate crises, assess needs to find the right services, and
connect clients to a range of appropriate, available resources. The new national
988 number is an alternative to our Behavioral Health Call Center, offering
assessment and crisis counseling, and resource referrals to individuals and family
or friends helping those in crisis.
K. Multnomah County promotes positive actions that can prevent suicide, inclu ding
behavioral and physical health care that is accessible and effective. We support
culturally specific and responsive services that support communities.
L. We recognize that connection is more important than ever now. It builds resilience
and support. Let a friend or family member know you are thinking about them; lead
with kindness; make a little extra food to share with a neighbor next door or even
someone you haven’t met but see near work or home. Let’s collectively see the
humanity in ourselves and each other, hold compassion for those in crisis and
compassion for those unsure how to help others in crisis.
M. Suicide prevention is everyone’s business. Anyone can get trained to help - for
free! Go to www.gettrainedtohelp.com to learn how. If you think an individual is at
risk for suicide, help is available 24/7 by calling the Multnomah County Behavioral
Health Call Center at 403-988-4888 or dial 988 for the national suicide prevention
line.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
The month of September 2022 is proclaimed to be Suicide Prevention Awareness Month
in Multnomah County, Oregon. All county residents are encouraged to increase
awareness of individuals who may be struggling with challenges in their lives and “Reach
Out” to connect, even in small ways. There are resourc es to help you and those around
you.
ADOPTED this 22nd day of September, 2022
SUBMITTED BY: Julie Dodge, BHD Interim Director.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Deborah Kafoury, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By
     Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney