Multnomah
  County
Comprehensive Plan
CHAPTER 9
RURAL ECONOMY
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan  Rural Economy   |    9-2
INTRODUCTION/BACKGROUND INFORMATION
Goal 9 of Oregon’s statewide planning goals requires cities and counties to
plan for and support economic activity and development. The goal and its
administrative rules call for cities and counties that have jurisdiction within
an urban growth boundary to identify projected future employment needs
through preparation of an economic opportunities analysis and to ensure that
adequate land is available to meet those future needs. The vast majority of
non-resourced based economic activity in Multnomah County occurs in the
urban areas of the County and Multnomah County is not required to prepare
an economic opportunities analysis for the rural portions of the County.
In the rural areas of the County which are
the focus of this Comprehensive Plan, most
economic activity is related to farm and forest
resource-based uses. A certain amount of
economic activity also occurs in areas designated
for rural commercial or industrial use, primarily
within designated rural centers or through home
occupations which are allowed in all rural zones.
As a result, this chapter includes a number of
general policies supporting economic development within the County, as well
as references to other Plan policies that support rural employment and other
economic development activities.
This chapter also provides an overview of conditions and planning issues
associated with rural economic development, along with Comprehensive Plan
policies and strategies to address them.
“We envision working with all available
resources to promote and encourage
forest and farm economic development
projects and to create conservation
land trusts.”
- East of Sandy Community Vision
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan  Rural Economy   |    9-3
Economic Conditions
Rural Multnomah County is generally better off economically than the County
as whole. According to 2012 US Census data, the rural areas of Multnomah
County have a higher median household income than the County as a whole.
West County generally has higher income, lower unemployment rate, and
lower poverty rate than Multnomah County as a whole. Similarly, East County
also has higher income and lower poverty rate, however the unemployment
rate is higher than Multnomah County as a whole.
There are 598 farms in Multnomah County, generating almost $70 million in
value of farm products sold. A small percentage of these farms are located
inside city limits and the urban growth boundary.
Table 9-1 – 2012 Multnomah County Farm Economic Summary
1
Figure 9-1 – Multnomah County Land in Farms, 2012 by Land Use1
1 2012 Census of Agriculture
Number of Farms 598
Land in Farms 29,983 acres
Average Size of Farm 50 acres
Market Value of Product Sold $68,936,000
Average per Farm $115,278
Other
Uses
9%
Woodland
15%
Pastureland
18%
Cropland
58%
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan  Rural Economy   |    9-4
Table 9-2 – 2012 Multnomah County Farm Economic Characteristics2
Relevant Studies and Planning Processes
A variety of state, regional, and local plans and policies are relevant to
planning for Multnomah County’ rural economy, including the following.
Oregon’s Statewide Planning Goals provide comprehensive policy direction
for local governments to follow. Goal 9, Economic Development, calls for
diversification and improvement of the economy. Most Goal 9 requirements
focus on identifying and planning for economic opportunities in urban areas;
for rural areas, requirements are relatively limited.
Multnomah County’s Zoning Code is organized by rural and urban
subareas, overall administrative procedures, and general building regulations.
The rural and urban subareas (Rural Zoning Code and Urban Zoning Code)
contain detailed descriptions of zoning districts and specify what uses are
allowed outright or conditionally in each zone. In addition, the codes contain
procedures for various land use issues, including design review, variances,
and land divisions. The administrative procedures are the processes and
procedures by which the County reviews and decides upon applications for all
permits relating to the use of land. The building regulations, applicable to most
unincorporated areas, includes permit processes for electrical, plumbing, and
grading, as well as street standards.
The state Unincorporated Communities Rule prescribes what type
of commercial, retail, and industrial development can be allowed within
unincorporated communities and other rural areas, including limits on the size
of individual uses and the area they can serve.
2 2012 Census of Agriculture
FARMS BY VALUE OF
SALES
NUMBER OF
FARMS
Less than $1,000 127
$1,000 to $2,499 94
$2,500 to $4,999 108
$5,000 to $9,999 89
$10,000 to $19,999 51
$20,000 to $24,999 12
$25,000 to $39,999 19
$40,000 to $49,999 13
$50,000 to $99,999 28
$100,000 to $249,999 29
$250,000 to $499,999 9
$500,000 or more 19
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan  Rural Economy   |    9-5
Key Planning Issues and Supporting
Information
A number of key planning issues affect economic planning policies and
practices in the rural portions of Multnomah County:
• Farm and forest land policies. One of the primary intentions of the
policies found in Chapters 3 and 4 of this Plan (Farm and Forest lands)
is to promote agricultural and forest production activities which enhance
the rural economy of Multnomah County. Policies related to farm stands,
agri-tourism, and wineries also support the area’s rural economy while also
addressing potential impacts of those uses and activities on surrounding
properties, residents, and farming and forestry operations.
• Rural centers land use. Designated rural centers are the primary
location for non-resource based economic activity in the County. Policies
associated with rural centers found in Chapter 2 of this Plan guide and
support development of commercial retail, service, office, and industrial
uses in these areas, including promoting re-use of existing buildings and
providing jobs and shopping opportunities for people within the County’s
rural centers and surrounding rural areas.
• Home occupations. There is broad citizen support for the ability to
work in home-based occupations in the rural areas of the County. State
law and the County’s Zoning Code include provisions allowing for home
occupations which are affirmed by policy language in this chapter.
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan  Rural Economy   |    9-6
GOAL, POLICIES, AND STRATEGIES
Goal: To support the rural economy of the County, including farm and forest
production, as well as commercial, industrial, office, and retail activities; to do
so consistent with available infrastructure and resources, in compatibility with
other land uses, and in compliance with state and local goals and laws.
Policies and Strategies Applicable County-wide
The policies in this section focus on broad support for economic activity within
the County, as well as for agriculture and forestry operations, economic activity
within rural centers or other areas allowing commercial, office, or industrial
uses, and for home occupations.
9.1 Prioritize and encourage economic development investments and
projects that are consistent with the Comprehensive Plan.
9.2 Encourage the retention and creation of employment opportunities
and economic development projects that require a skilled work
force and generate family wage jobs, and that meet the needs of
business, industry, and the community.
9.3 Direct economic development public expenditures and capital
improvements projects into designated rural centers which support
the timely, orderly, and efficient growth and development of these
centers.
9.4 Support economic development investments and land use actions
which will:
1. Promote agriculture and timber production as economic drivers;
2. Maximize the use of developable sites zoned for commercial
and industrial uses;
3. Recognize the importance of home occupations as a valid
employment option for County residents.
9.5 Actively support community-based economic revitalization and
development efforts which create employment opportunities,
generate business investment capital, and improve the
attractiveness and marketability of commercial and industrial sites.
9.6 Encourage agricultural and timber processing industries which
will improve the economic viability of farm and forest production
within the County. The location of these processing facilities must
be carefully balanced with the protection of agricultural and timber
production outside the urban growth boundaries.
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan  Rural Economy   |    9-7
9.7 Recognize the importance of the region’s river, rail, and road
systems to the local and state economy by encouraging the
continued maintenance of the river navigation system, rail lines, and
highway and maintaining access to shipping channels in support of
the movement of goods. Maintenance of the river navigation system
includes maintenance of structures such as navigation aids, river
gages and mooring buoys, as well as maintaining channel depth.
9.8 Allow for home occupations wherever dwellings are permitted
in order to assist in developing new business opportunities and
to increase convenience to residents, while considering and
minimizing impacts on adjacent land uses.
Policies and Strategies Applicable to Individual
Subareas
There are no rural economy policies specific to individual Rural Planning
Areas.