BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
PROCLAMATION NO. 2022-041
Proclaiming May 2022 as Asian American, Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander Heritage
Month in Multnomah County, Oregon.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
1. The month of May 2022 is nationally recognized as a time to celebrate the
contributions of Asians, Native Hawaiians and Pacific Islanders.
2. The month of May was chosen as Asian American and Native Hawaiian/Pacific
Islander (AANHPIs) Heritage Month to commemorate the immigration of the first
Japanese citizen, Nakahama Manjiro, to the United States on May 7, 1843, and to
honor the anniversary of the completion of the first Transcontinental Railroad,  on
May 10, 1869. This incredible feat was accomplished due to the back -breaking
labor of nearly 20,000 Chinese immigrants.
3. AANHPI communities have lived and worked in Oregon for over 200 years,
contributing to the state’s rich history, economy and cul ture. Notably in the early
1800s, Native Hawaiians and Pacific Islanders made the crossing to the Pacific
Northwest to help establish fur trading posts along the Oregon Trail . In the late
1800s and early 1900s, South Asians migrated to towns up and down th e west
coast, working in lumber and agriculture.
4. Throughout their history in the United States and in Oregon, AANHPI communities
have been subject to discrimination and violence. In 1910, White laborers led an
anti-Asian attack on South Asian laborers in the St. John’s neighborhood. With the
backing of the Multnomah County District Attorney's Office, the South Asian
laborers fought back, and demanded the prosecution of these attacks. More
recently, Asian communities have been the target of anti-Asian hate that has been
fanned by misinformation and bias related to the COVID pandemic. AANHPI
history is both heroic and harrowing, as these communities have thrived despite
harassment and discrimination.
5. Asian Americans, Pacific Islanders and Native Hawai ians have made significant
contributions in various aspects of our society such as the arts, law, science,
technology, sports and public service. This year we are lifting up AANHPI
individuals who are committed to advancing future leaders through collabora tion.
Supporting and advancing AANHPI community leaders is essential to developing
leadership opportunities, inspiring individuals and advancing Multnomah County’s
diverse and vibrant culture.
6. Multnomah County is committed to learning from and working with our AANHPI
partners to eliminate disparities by removing impediments to success through
increasing social inclusion, reducing poverty, ensuring language and healthcare
access, and supporting meaningful civic engagement.
7. Multnomah County welcomes a nd supports Asians, Asian Americans, Pacific
Islander and Native Hawaiian Oregonians as vital members of our community. The
county is committed to continuing to actively work with the community to use
county systems of care to provide our residents the sa fety they deserve.
Multnomah County is also committed to collaborating with the AANHPI community
to mentor and uplift future leaders.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
The month of May 2022 as Asian, Asian American, Native Hawaiian/P acific Islander
Heritage Month celebrating all residents of Multnomah County who identify as Asian,
Asian American, Native Hawaiian and/or Pacific Islander.
ADOPTED this 12th day of May, 2022.
SUBMITTED BY: Commissioner Lori Stegmann & Commissioner Susheela Jayapal
     Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney
BO
ARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
REVIEWED:
JENN
Y M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By
Lori Stegmann, Vice-Chair