Page 1 of 2 – Resolution authorizing an Internal Loan from the Risk Management Fund
(3500) to the Supportive Housing Fund (1521) in the amount of $3,000,000 to provide funding
for Joint Office of Homeless Services Capacity Building for “HereTogether” Program
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
RESOLUTION NO.  2020-102
Resolution authorizing an Internal Loan from the Risk Management Fund  (3500) to the
Supportive Housing Fund (1521) in the amount of $3,000,000 to provide funding for Joint Office
of Homeless Services Capacity Building for “HereTogether” Program.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. On May 19, 2020, Metro district service area voters approved Metro Ballot Measure 26-
210 (the “Supportive Housing Services Measure”  or “SHSM” ). The Supportive Housing
Services Measure established two new tax es, a business income tax and a personal income
tax, to fund supportive housing services for people experiencing homelessness or at risk of
experiencing homelessness. The new taxes take effect on January 1, 2021.
b. The Metro district service area includes portions of Multnomah, Clackamas, and
Washington counties (the “Counties”). Revenues from the new taxes will be distributed to the
Counties fund new programs and services for people experiencing homelessness or at risk of
experiencing homelessness (the “Programs and Services”) . Metro estimates that Multnomah
County will receive $52 million of SHSM revenue in fiscal year (“FY”) 2022.
c. The SHSM requires that each of the Counties complete a  Local Implementation Plan
(the “LIP”). The Joint Office of Homeless Services (the “Joint Office”) will complete Multnomah
County’s LIP and coordinate Multnomah County’s provision of Programs and Services funded
by this revenue following plan approval.
d. The Joint O ffice needs to expand its administrative and programmatic capacity
immediately in FY 2021 in order to support  the delivery of the Programs and Services in FY
2022. This “ Phase 1” capacity need includes staff for program administration, community
engagement, racial equity planning, data collection and evaluation, and human resources and
business services, along with contracted services funding for technical assistance and
organizational development.
e. The Joint Office s taff anticipates Phase 1 capacity building  will cost $3,0 00,000.
However, the Supportive Housing Fund lacks the funds to pay for these investments.
f. An alternative funding source for the Phase 1 investments is available in the form of an
internal loan from the Risk Management Fund to the Supportive Housing Fund.
g. As provided under ORS 294.468, the Board of County Commissioners  may authorize
by resolution the use of an operating internal (“Interfund”) loan, provided that the loan is repaid
by the end of the ensuing year or budget period.
Page 2 of 2 – Resolution authorizing an Internal Loan from the Risk Management Fund
(3500) to the Supportive Housing Fund (1521) in the amount of $3,000,000 to provide funding
for Joint Office of Homeless Services Capacity Building for “HereTogether” Program
h. There is sufficient cash in the Risk Management Fund to make an Interfund loan of
$3,000,000 to the Supportive Housing Fund.
i. The Interfund loan will be processed in January 2021. The Supportive Housing Fund will
repay the Risk Management Fund as outlined in the attached schedule. Interest will accrue on
the loan at the rate the County earns in the Local Government Investment Pool.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves:
1. Investment in the  Phase 1 capacity  building needed to support the provision of
Programs and Services is a high priority of the County.
2. The County authorizes the Chief Financial Officer to make the necessary accounting
transaction in FY 2021 to loan $3,0 00,000 from the Risk Management Fund to the
Supportive Housing Fund to provide funding for Phase 1 capacity building for the
Supportive Housing Services Measure.
3. The Supportive Housing Fund will repay the Risk Management Fund for the entire
amount of the loan when sufficient resources are available in the Supportive Housing
Fund, but no later than 12 month from date of loan.
ADOPTED this 3rd day of December, 2020.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Deborah Kafoury, County Chair
SUBMITTED BY: Eric Arellano, Chief Financial Officer
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON