BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
PROCLAMATION NO. 2023-034
Proclaiming the Month of May 202 3 as Older Americans Month in Multnomah County,
Oregon.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. Multnomah County’s older adults and elders have helped build and shape this
community through contributing their time, wisdom and experience. 2023 marks the 60th
anniversary of the establishment of Old er Americans Month. Since 1963, May is a tim e
to uplift these contributions and to highlight the importance of independence and choice
as people in our community age.
c. Supporting the well-being and positive aging experience of older adults and elders
in our community by challenging predominant narratives about aging affirms our
commitment to exploring and combating stereotypes, emphasizing the many positi ve
aspects of aging, and embracing the diversity of our residents.
d. 2023 is also the 50th anniver sary of the establishment of the Area Agencies
on
Aging. Area Agencies on Aging coordinate and provide an array of traditional and
innovative services to all people 60 years and older, regardless of income, both at home
and in the community.
e. The Aging , Disability and Veterans Services Division, as the designated Area
Agency on Aging, along with its network of partners provide access to Older Americans
Act programs and services that reflect and affirm the diverse people, cultures and
languages of older adults and elders.
f. Older adults and elders across Multnomah County are served by 17 contract ed
providers that deliver services that are culturally responsive, nine of which provi de
culturally specific services.
g. The aim of the Area Agencies on Aging and Older Americans Act Programs is t o
allow older adults to age in place aided by services such as home -delivered meals,
housekeeping assistance, health promotion programing and access to legal advice.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
May 2023 is Older Americans Month, a time to recognize that we all benefit when people
of all ages, abilities, backgrounds, identities have the opportunity to grow old and
determine their own path as they age. Consistent with this year’s national theme, “Aging
Unbound,” we ask people in Multnomah County to rec ognize and celebrate older adults
and elders in their communities.
ADOPTED this 25th day of May, 2023.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
      Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By
     Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney
SUBMITTED BY: Mohammad Bader, Director