BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
PROCLAMATION NO. 2023-087
Proclaiming October 2023 as Domestic Violence Awareness Month in Multnomah County.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
A. Domestic violence is a complex and pervasive problem in our community that affects
individuals across economic, racial, gender, educational, religious, and societal lines.
Domestic violence is not just physical, it can include emotional, mental, and financial
abuse.
B. Although domestic violence can affect anyone, the impact is not uniform. Survivors from
marginalized groups, including individuals with disabilities, members of the LGBTQ
community, immigrants, older adults, and women of color experience disproportionate
rates of domestic violence. These disproportionate impacts are often a direct result of
systemic barriers, inequities and inherent racism, sexism, homophobia, ableism,
ageism, and other oppressions in our service systems.
C. Nationally, one in three women, one in nine men and more than half of all trans and
nonbinary people will be a victim of domestic or sexual violence at some point in their
lifetimes. Domestic violence affects us all; survivors are our family members, neighbors,
coworkers, and friends.
D. One in fifteen children are exposed to domestic violence every year and between 30
and 60 percent of perpetrators of intimate partner violence also abuse children in the
home. Exposure to domestic violence harms children and places them at risk of
experiencing further violence.
E. Domestic violence is a leading cause of homelessness among women and their children
in the United States. 63% of women experiencing homelessness report experiencing
intimate partner violence. Nationally, over 80% of survivors entering shelters identify
“finding housing I can afford” as an immediate need.
F. Financial abuse occurs in 99% of domestic violence cases, resulting in fraudulent debt,
property damage, and lost income from the nearly 8 million missed days of paid work
each year – the equivalent of more than 32,000 full-time jobs.
G. Multnomah County is committed to supporting the safety, dignity and self-determination
of those who have been harmed by domestic violence, safeguarding the wellbeing of
children who have been impacted by domestic and sexual violence, and providing
appropriate intervention and accountability with domestic violence offenders.
H. Multnomah County is a leader in addressing domestic violence through its prevention,
public safety, and health and human services programs. Our cross-sector collaboration
stretches across housing, criminal justice, law enforcement, community-based services,
and more. While our programs are dedicated and passionate about serving survivors
and their families, we know the needs are far greater than our current system can
address. We are committed to continuously working toward a future where all survivors
and their families can find safety and stability in Multnomah County.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
October 2023 to be Domestic Violence Awareness Month in Multnomah County.   We urge all
Multnomah County residents to actively work towards the elimination of domestic violence by
supporting and believing survivors and promoting healthy, respectful relationships.
ADOPTED this 19th day of October, 2023.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Jessica Vega-Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By
Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney
SUBMITTED BY: Mohammad Bader, Director and Alix Sanchez, Senior Manager
Multnomah County Domestic and Sexual Violence Coordination Office