Page 1 of 2 - Approving a Petition to Annex a Single Parcel of Land to the Dunthorpe-
Riverdale Service District pursuant to ORS 198.857 and Authorizing the Chair to Provide the
District’s Endorsement on the Petition.

BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
GOVERNING BODY FOR DUNTHORPE-RIVERDALE SERVICE DISTRICT

RESOLUTION NO.  2025-030

Approving a Petition to Annex a Single Parcel of Land to the Dunthorpe-Riverdale Service
District pursuant to ORS 198.857 and Authorizing the Chair to Provide the District’s
Endorsement on the Petition.

The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:

a. The Dunthorpe -Riverdale Service District  (“District”) is a county service district
organized under ORS Chapter 451.   The Multnomah County Board of County
Commissioners is the governing body of the District (“District Board”).

b. ORS 198.857  provides a process for annexing  a parcel of land to a county service
district.  ORS 198.857(2) requires that the board of a county service district approve an
annexation petition by endorsement thereon before the annexation petition is filed with
the county board.

c. Petitioners have submitted an annexation petition to  the Distr ict for approval by
endorsement on the petition .  The annexation petition is attached hereto as Exhibit 1
and includes a map and legal description of the property.

d. Per the District staff report  prepared for the Multnomah County Board of County
Commissioners, attached hereto as Exhibit 2, annexation to the District of the property
described in Exhibit 1 is consistent with the statewide planning goals, the Principal Act
(ORS Chapter 451) , and Metro Code Chapter 3.09,  and the petition meets the
requirements of ORS 198.857.

/ / /

/ / /

/ / /

/ / /

/ / /

/ / /

/ / /

/ / /
Page 2 of 2 - Approving a Petition to Annex a Single Parcel of Land to the Dunthorpe-
Riverdale Service District pursuant to ORS 198.857 and Authorizing the Chair to Provide the
District’s Endorsement on the Petition.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves:
1. The District Board approves the annexation petition attached hereto as Exhibit 1.
2. The County Chair, acting as the Chair of the governing body of the Dunthorpe-Riverdale
Service District, is authorized and directed to provide the District Board’s approval by
endorsement on the petition attached hereto as Exhibit 1.
ADOPTED this 5th day of June, 2025.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
GOVERNING BODY FOR DUNTHORPE -
RIVERDALE SERVICE DISTRICT
Jessica Vega-Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
SUBMITTED BY: MARGI BRADWAY, DCS DIRECTOR
4/7/2025
Exhibit 2

TO:     Multnomah County Board of County Commissioners

FROM:    Chet Hagen, Dunthorpe-Riverdale Service District Program
Manager

Date of Staff Report:   May 15, 2025

Date of County Board Hearing: June 5 , 2025

DUNTHORPE-RIVERDALE SERVICE DISTRICT ANNEXATION PETITION STAFF REPORT

Petitioners:  Property Owners – Risa and Camilo Moreno

Subject Property: L ocated at 400 SW Edgecliff Road: Tax Lot 21E02BB01300, NW 1/4 Sec.
2, T2S R1E, W.M., Clackamas County, Oregon
   (See attached legal description and map)

1. Staff Recommendation/Action Requested:  Approval of annexation petition

2. Financial Impact to Multnomah County:      None

3. Legal Issues:             None

4. Link to Current County Policies:        None

5. Citizen Participation:   By the time of the hearing, notice of the
Multnomah County Board of County
Commissioners hearing on the annexation
petition will consist of: 1) Published notice in
the Oregonian; 2) Mailed notice to the
Petitioners, affected local governments, all
property owners within 100 feet of the area
to be annexed, and all recognized
neighborhood or community organizations
whose boundaries include the subject
property; and 3) weatherproof posting of the
hearing notice on a sign located in the public
right-of-way adjacent to the subject property.
Notice of this hearing includes information on
how to provide testimony.

6. Other Government Participation: The Dunthorpe-Riverdale Service District
(“District”) is a county service district that
provides sanitary sewer service in
unincorporated Multnomah and Clackamas
counties and for which the Multnomah
County Board of County Commissioners
serves as the governing body (“District
Board”).  The District Board has approved
and endorsed the annexation petition as is
required by statute.

      The property proposed to be annexed to the
District is located in Clackamas County.
However, because Multnomah County is the
District’s principal county, as defined in ORS
198.705(17), the Multnomah County Board
of County Commissioners (“County Board”)
must decide whether to approve the
annexation petition.  ORS 198.725.

PETITION UNDER ORS 198.857

Petitioner initiated a consent annexation petition under ORS 198.857.  The petition meets the
requirement for initiation of annexation proceedings set forth in ORS 198.857(2) and Metro
Code 3.09.040(A) (lists Metro’s minimum requirements for petition).  If the County Board
approves the proposal, the boundary change would become effective on the date described in
Metro Code 3.09.060(A)(4).

THE SUBJECT PROPERTY

The territory that is proposed to be annexed (“subject property” or “affected territory”) is located
generally on the south edge of the District at 400 SW Edgecliff Road: Tax Lot 21E02BB01300,
NW 1/4 Sec. 2, T2S R1E, W.M., Clackamas County, Oregon.  A full legal description and map
of the subject property is attached to this staff report.

The subject property is inside of Metro's jurisdictional boundary and inside the regional Urban
Growth Boundary (UGB). The subject property is .98 acres, currently has one dwelling, and is
valued at $1,410,159.00.

The subject property lies within Clackamas County is covered by an Urban Growth
Management Agreement between Clackamas County and the City of Lake Oswego.  The
agreement acknowledges that areas covered by the agreement can and should ultimately be
provided with a full range of services by the City of Lake Oswego and that this should be
accomplished through annexation to the City.  However, the subject property is not currently
contiguous to the City, though it is within the City’s Urban Service Boundary.

The proposed annexation would not result in the withdrawal of the subject property from the
legal boundary of any county, city, district whose jurisdictional boundary or adopted urban
service area includes any part of the affected territory or who provides any urban service to any
portion of the affected territory; Metro; or any other unit of local government, as defined in ORS
190.003, that is a party to any agreement for provision of an urban service to the affected
territory.

JURISDICTION

The property to be annexed lies within Clackamas County.  However, Multnomah County is the
“principal county,” as defined in ORS 198.705(17), in the District, and the Multnomah County
Board of County Commissioners therefore has jurisdiction to determine whether to approve the
annexation petition pursuant to ORS 198.725 and 198.857.

REASON FOR ANNEXATION

The petitioner desires sanitary sewer service to serve an existing single-family dwelling.

AVAILABILITY OF SERVICES

District sewer services are available to serve the subject property and the existing dwelling.  In
particular, the dwelling can be served from a District sewer line in SW Edgecliff Rd on the
northwest end of the subject property.

CRITERIA

Oregon Revised Statute Chapter 198 provides that, when determining whether to approve an
annexation petition, the County Board shall “consider the local comprehensive plan for the area
and any service agreement executed between a local government and the affected district.”
ORS 198.857(4).

A second set of criteria can be found in the Metro Code.  To approve a boundary change, the
County Board must apply the criteria and consider the factors set forth in Metro Code Section
3.09.045(D) and (E).  To approve a boundary change, the County Board must:

1)    Find that the boundary change is consistent with expressly applicable provisions in:

(A)     Any applicable urban service agreement adopted pursuant to ORS
195.065;

(B) Any applicable annexation plan adopted pursuant to ORS 195.205;

(C) Any applicable cooperative planning agreement adopted pursuant to ORS
195.020(2) between the District and any county, city, district whose
jurisdictional boundary or adopted urban service area
includes any part of the affected territory or who provides any urban
service to any portion of the affected territory; Metro; or any other unit of
local government, as defined in ORS 190.003, that is a party to any
agreement for provision of an urban service to the affected territory;

(D) Any applicable public facility plan adopted pursuant to a statewide
planning goal on public facilities and services;

(E) Any applicable comprehensive plan;

(F) Any applicable concept plan; and

2)    Consider whether the boundary change would:

(A) Promote the timely, orderly and economic provision of public facilities and
services;

(B) Affect the quality and quantity of urban services; and

(C) Eliminate or avoid unnecessary duplication of facilities and services.

In addition, the County Board must consider whether the annexation petition covers property
that lies outside the UGB.  Finally, ORS 197.175 requires that the annexation of property to a
district be done in accordance with the statewide planning goals.

Staff has addressed the criteria listed above in the attached Findings, Reasons for Decision,
and Conclusions.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION.

Based on the attached Findings, Reasons for Decision, and Conclusions, staff recommends the
annexation petition for the subject property described in the attached legal description and map
be approved