BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
RESOLUTION NO. 2024-109
Affirming the Board’s commitment to urgently address the risks created by the fossil fuel
infrastructure located in the Critical Energy Infrastructure Hub.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
A. Climate change is the greatest environmental challenge of the 21st century. The
heat dome of 2021 set record-breaking high temperatures and claimed 69 lives
related to hyperthermia. The ice storm of 2023 set record-breaking low
temperatures and resulted in unprecedented deaths and emergency room visits
related to hypothermia. Climate change will continue to place increasingly greater
financial stresses on Multnomah County in the form of droughts, wildfires, floods,
landslides, and severe weather, as well as costs associated with climate change
mitigation and adaptation.
B. Multnomah County recognized and outlined a plan for reducing the risks of fossil
fuel infrastructure and climate change in its 2015 Climate Action Plan and
Resolution 2016-001. Resolution No. 2017-046 committed Multnomah County to
meeting county-wide energy needs with 100 percent renewable energy by 2050.
Multnomah County’s continuing efforts recognize the disparate impact of climate
change on historically marginalized and underserved communities and address
climate justice as a top priority in preparing for and adapting to climate change.
C. Fossil fuels are a major component of today's energy system and the storage,
refining, transport, trade, and combustion of fossil fuels exposes Multnomah
County’s public agencies, businesses, and residents to a wide range of health,
safety, environmental, and economic risks that are costly to respond to.
D. The Critical Energy Infrastructure (CEI) Hub located in Northwest Portland near
the neighborhood of Linnton, adjacent to the Willamette River, and across the
river from the neighborhood of St. Johns, includes liquid fuel port terminals, over
630 storage tanks, pipelines and transfer stations, natural gas transmission and
storage, electrical substations, and high voltage transmission lines. There are no
major petrochemical refinery operations in Oregon, so all of Oregon’s liquid fuel is
imported, and over 90 percent of the state’s fuel, and 100 percent of the state’s
jet fuel, comes through fuel storage facilities in the Hub. The fossil fuel
infrastructure located in the CEI Hub has significant known seismic vulnerability,
and is located in the CSZ, a 600-mile fault line off the Pacific Coast of North
America that has been responsible for major earthquakes occurring at relatively
regular intervals over the past thousand years. There is a 37% chance of a major
earthquake occurring in the next 50 years. It is not a question of if a major
earthquake will occur, but a matter of when.
E. The impacts of a CSZ earthquake will be catastrophic, including immediate
threats to life and safety, longer term pollution and health effects, and economic
disruption to individuals and businesses. The burden of these impacts will fall
disproportionately on communities of color and populations with low incomes, and
in the absence of strong policy protections the cost of response and cleanup will
be borne by taxpayers.
F. Multnomah County has actively pursued investigation and development of
policies to protect itself and the community from the costs of damage to fossil fuel
infrastructure. With the support of Multnomah County, the Oregon legislature
passed Oregon Senate Bill 1567, which established a seismic tank stability
program requiring bulk oil or liquid fuel terminals to submit Seismic Vulnerability
Assessments to the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality. Upon DEQ
approval of the Seismic Vulnerability Assessments, regulated facilities have 6
months to develop a Seismic Risk Mitigation Implementation Plan and must
implement the plan within 10 years of approval by the DEQ.
G. As a next step, the County is pursuing adoption of a financial assurance policy
that will shift financial responsibility for costs of damage associated with fossil fuel
infrastructure to the companies that own and earn revenues from that
infrastructure, and will act as a “safety net”, filling gaps in any coverage that may
occur as a result of the nature, breadth and scale of worst-case spill or release
from the CEI Hub. In particular, Multnomah County’s Office of Sustainability and
Office of Emergency Management have been researching and developing a
policy modeled after legislation passed in Washington in 2023 and adopted in
new rules of Washington Annotated Code on June 14, 2024 ensuring that vessel
and facility owners and operators have adequate financial resources to pay
cleanup and damage costs arising from oil spills.
H. In Washington, owners and operators of onshore facilities, offshore facilities, and
certain vessels containing oil and fuel products are required to demonstrate proof
that they are able to pay for the costs and damages of a spill up to a specified
amount through a Certificate of Financial Responsibility. Financial responsibility
can be evidenced by insurance policies, surety bonds, guarantees, or letters of
credit. Financial responsibility requirements have been established based on the
types of storage facilities being used and the volumes of fuel contained.
I. During consideration of Multnomah County’s Fiscal Year 2025 budget, the Board
of County Commissioners approved a Budget Note requiring that the Department
of Sustainability brief the Board on a proposed plan for adoption of a financial
responsibility program in County Code, including evaluation of the existence and
adequacy of insurance and other financial assurance mechanisms held by the
fossil fuel companies that have infrastructure in the Hub.
J. The history and process of developing a financial assurance policy, along with a
draft concept ordinance, was presented to the Board during a briefing on
November 7, 2024. This was posted on the County website for public comment.
Over 200 comments were received, with 98.8 percent in favor of adoption of a
financial assurance policy and the vast majority making recommendations
regarding increasing the calculation of damages and civil penalties. A majority of
comments also expressed a desire to decrease the duration of the proposed 18
month rulemaking process in order to hasten implementation. Some input
reflected a desire to extend the time for adoption of a final ordinance to include
further research and stakeholder engagement.
K. A draft ordinance reflecting input from the hundreds of public comments and
engagement with environmental, neighborhood, Tribal, and community
advocates, along with the facilities represented in the CEI Hub, was brought
before the board for a first reading November 21, 2024. The draft ordinance
included calculations of damage based on the Seismic Risk Analysis
commissioned by Multnomah County and the City of Portland in 2019, along with
existing programs, particularly the program implemented in Washington and the
seismic stability program implemented in Oregon. The ordinance contained an 18
month rulemaking period. The draft ordinance did not pass to a second reading.
L. Further collaboration with the City of Portland and State of Oregon is desired to
address the risks created by the fossil fuel infrastructure located in the Critical
Energy Infrastructure Hub.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves:

1. To affirm the Board’s commitment to mitigate the risks to human life and the
environment resulting from fossil fuels and require the fossil fuel industry to bear the
full cost of damages in the case of a worst case spill or release of their products.
2. To express the Board’s sense of urgency and support policy work that will result in a
finalized Financial Risk Ordinance.
a. The process for developing the Ordinance should build on the extensive
foundation, work and relationships that have been established to date and
include, at minimum:
i. A completed evaluation of the adequacy of existing financial
assurance instruments to compensate for the cost of risks as well as
the existence of instruments available in the private market that would
more fully compensate for costs borne by the community.
ii. Inclusive and active engagement of all stakeholders with a vested
interest in this policy, including environmental advocates, Tribal
governments and those with treaty fishing rights on the Willamette and
Columbia Rivers, BIPOC and other communities most negatively
impacted by environmental harm and disasters, Linnton and St. Johns
residents, and representatives of the fossil fuel industry with facilities
at the CEI Hub.
iii. A consideration of the basis for potential inclusion of decommissioned
tanks in the financial assurance policy.
b. The Ordinance brought should include at minimum the following:
i. A clear basis for formulas calculating damage.
ii. A clear basis for formulas calculating costs of damage, cleanup,
mediation and restoration.
iii. A clear basis for consideration of a cap on damages and for
determination of the amount of any cap.
iv. A clear basis for determining the amount of civil penalties to be
applied.
v. A clear basis for the calculation of damage and process for addressing
decommissioned tanks, if these are to be included in the ordinance.
vi. A demonstration of alignment to the extent possible with other local
and regional policies that have already been adopted that relate to the
County’s proposed financial responsibility policy, including Washington
State’s Financial Responsibility Program and Oregon’s Seismic
stability program.
3. In recognition of the urgency of this policy work, the Board urges consideration of an
ordinance on an expedited basis, with a goal of implementation no later than one
year from the date of this resolution The Board further supports consideration of the
administrative and internal costs associated with this programming as part of the
2025-2026 budget process.
4. The Board recognizes that the catastrophic damage caused by a worst case spill or
release of liquid fuel products and oil from the CEI Hub will not be limited to
Multnomah County but will devastate the entire state. The Board therefore calls on
the Governor and State Legislature to prioritize a statewide financial assurance
policy that aligns with its seismic stability program.
ADOPTED this 19th day of December, 2024.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
  Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By:
 Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney
SUBMITTED BY: Commissioner Sharon Meieran