Personnel Rule # 4-60 FINAL 5-27-2014 A11Y
Rule # 4-60
Performance
§§:
     § 4-60-010 Management
§ 4-60-020 Appraisal Process

§ 4-60-010 Management
A. This applies to management and executive employees. It does not apply to employees
regularly scheduled to work less than 20 hours per week or elected officials' staff.
B. Performance evaluation is intended to improve productivity through systematic
communication between supervisors and employees regarding performance, standards,
leadership values, goals, and employee concerns and problems.
C.Using the performance evaluation process, an employee and supervisor set individual
employee performance objectives and goals. The employee is evaluated on
performance that is consistent with the achievement of these objectives and goals.
D.Management employees who fail to satisfactorily perform the duties of their position are
subject to disciplinary action.
§ 4-60-020 Appraisal Process
A. At the beginning of each fiscal year, performance objectives for each employee will be
established. Adjustments to the performance objectives may be made as needed,
during the fiscal year. If the supervisor and employee are unable to agree on
performance objectives, the Director to whom they report will facilitate an agreement.
B. Each employee will be evaluated at the end of the fiscal year on the results achieved
toward meeting the established performance objectives and demonstrating county
leadership values.
C.Each employee will be rated as meeting or not meeting performance goals and
demonstrating county leadership values. Signed evaluation forms must be submitted to
the department human resources unit and will be placed in the employee's pers onnel
file.
D.Each employee rated as meeting performance goals and demonstrating leadership
values is eligible for a merit increase.
E. Employees failing to meet performance goals must be placed on a corrective action plan
and receive special performance apprai sals at times established by the plan.  Corrective
Personnel Rule # 4-60 FINAL 5-27-2014 A11Y
action plans will include specific performance objectives, criteria for measuring the
objectives, and the frequency of review. Plans will be signed by the employee, and
placed in the employee's personnel f ile. Serious deficiencies in performance are cause
for disciplinary action.
F. Employees may prepare written comments or rebuttals to their evaluations that will be
attached to their evaluation form and placed in their personnel file.