BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON

PROCLAMATION NO. 2024-092

Proclaiming October 2024 as National Disability Employment Awareness Month
in Multnomah County, Oregon.

The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:

A. Approximately 61 million people in the United States have a disability.
Almost 15% of Multnomah County residents live with some form of
disability. Disabilities are ordinary and familiar parts of who people are, and
we honor the diverse experiences of disability and perspectives within our
community.

B. National Disability Employment Awareness Month (NDEAM) is an annual
campaign that takes place each October to celebrate the value and talent
workers with disabilities add to America’s workplaces and economy.
NDEAM’s purpose is to confirm the commitment to ensuring disabled
workers have access to good jobs, every month of every year. The 2024
NDEAM theme is “Access to Good Jobs for All.”

C. In the 2023 Countywide Employee Survey, 24.5% of Multnomah County
staff identified as having a disability. This number is a call to action to
increase the support available for employees with disabilities. Policies,
practices, and processes should be developed with a Universal Design
approach and with people with disabilities in mind. The accommodation
process under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) should be
streamlined and straightforward, adequately resourced, and tracked in a
way that tells us who is and isn’t getting needed accommodations, as well
as any disparities in access or outcomes.

D.  Even within the disability community, disability can be experienced very
differently. These diverse experiences can be exacerbated in the
workplace. Disabilities that impact sight and hearing may further exclude
folks as accessibility efforts are not broadly implemented. Employees with
invisible disabilities often report not being believed or being charged with
exaggerating symptoms and impacts. Staff with Long COVID are
navigating the workplace post-COVID infection. These staff members
continue to support County operations while experiencing varied and
ongoing symptoms. Neurodivergent individuals may struggle to get their
workplace limitations accommodated due to a lack of awareness of
available accommodations and bias from co-workers.

E.  Workplace accommodations are an imperative part of creating an inclusive
organization. While Multnomah County maintains a robust reasonable
accommodation process, there is still opportunity for a scent-free policy, or
improved COVID precautions. Without clear policies, Human Resource
staff and managers assisting employees in implementing needed
accommodations are not always able to create a safe and accessible
environment for all.

F.  The Workforce Equity Strategic Plan renewal process included forming a
Disability Equity Workgroup. This body put forward disability-specific
recommendations for inclusion in the ‘24-’28 WESP. One of these
initiatives, a Disability Experience Survey, has recently been launched
from the Office of Diversity and Equity. The purpose of this anonymous
tool is to hear directly from staff with disabilities and create a baseline from
which to measure the success of future initiatives.

G.  The Department of County Assets (DCA) plays an important role in making
Multnomah County a welcoming and inclusive workplace for people with
disabilities. DCA serves the people who serve the people by managing
technology suites, assistive tech, contracts, and buildings and facilities.

● Facilities and Property Management recently executed a
contract with Moore Iacofano Goltsman, Inc. (MIG), an on-call
accessibility consultant, to update building design standards
and incorporate physical accessibility best practices. This was
a direct response to feedback from staff with disabilities and
the disability community.
● The Information Technology (IT) division provides software
and hardware to assist with a wide range of accessibility
needs, as well Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Generative AI
tools. These new tools benefit all staff and, in particular,
employees with disabilities. IT recently launched a new
county-wide Digital Experience Standard that ensures all new
websites, tools and applications comply with Federal WCAG
2.1+ and County accessibility standards. As the County
designs a new website, IT is leading the way with community
reviewers including an intentional focus on including reviewers
with disabilities.

H.  The IDEA employee resource group (“Including Disability in Equity and
Access”) offers ongoing support and resource connection for employees
with disabilities. IDEA also regularly engages in countywide equity efforts
and continuous improvement processes. Recently, IDEA formed a
Neurodivergence subcommittee, a space where neurodivergent staff can
connect and support continued progress for equity and inclusion of
neurodivergent employees.

I.  Future work for Multnomah County includes benchmarks outlined in the
WESP. This includes creating a centralized accommodation unit to
facilitate ADA accommodations; utilizing Disability Experience Survey data
to inform future initiatives and areas for improvement; required training for
all staff on ways disability shows up in the workplace; raising awareness of
disability justice principles; and bringing in disability equity consultants to
provide an evaluation report from an outside perspective. Additionally, the
Office of Diversity and Equity is standing up a Digital Accessibility Program
that is expected to establish community channels to understand
accessibility needs for both employees and community.

J.  Employers tend to prioritize the accommodation and accessibility needs of
their current employees, which may overlook those of potential
employees. For example, externally facing websites and systems should
be accessible to screen readers to support job applicants with disabilities.

K.  As we consider “Access to Good Jobs for All”, we must ask ourselves and
our organization what steps we can take individually and collectively to
increase disability inclusion in Multnomah County. Enacting needed policy,
implementing WESP benchmarks, elevating the voices of those with lived
experience, and acknowledging the reality that we are living and working in
an ongoing pandemic may be first steps. Increasing awareness of disability
justice principles and the intersectional nature of many marginalized
communities is key to operationalizing the Safety, Trust and Belonging we
strive to create and uphold.

The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:

The month of October 2024 as National Disability Employment Awareness Month
in Multnomah County, Oregon. We celebrate and recognize the significant
contributions of people with disabilities to the workforce and to the community
and invite other organizations to do the same.
ADOPTED this 24th day of October, 2024.
SUBMITTED BY: Tracey Massey, DCA
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By:
Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney