Multnomah
  County
Comprehensive Plan
CHAPTER 2
LAND USE
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan Land Use   |    2-2
INTRODUCTION/BACKGROUND INFORMATION
M
ultnomah County regulates and manages the use of land in the
unincorporated portions of the County. The County does this through a
variety of processes, including:
• Implements state policy and laws and furthers local planning goals by
maintaining, updating and applying County land use policies, standards
and regulations in its zoning codes and this Comprehensive Plan.
• Reviews development and land use proposals and help applicants to
navigate the application process.
• Coordinates with Metro and other local
jurisdictions in regional growth management
efforts, including maintenance of the
regional urban growth boundary.
• Coordinates land use and transportation
planning efforts in rural areas including
planning for farm and forest lands and
natural resource management and
protection.
The policies contained in this chapter, as well as all chapters in this Plan,
establish the legislative policy basis for the County’s land use planning
program. The program is implemented primarily through application of
the County’s Zoning Code, regulatory maps, and development permitting
application and approval procedures. In addition, these policies establish
important criteria to be used when initiating regulatory changes or reviewing
and developing code, map, and policy amendments.
Land Use Conditions
Multnomah County’s Zoning Code and associated zoning districts allow for a
variety of land uses within the County. The predominant land uses throughout
unincorporated Multnomah County are agricultural and forestry based. Rural
residential, commercial, and industrial uses are also present, being more
prominent near urbanized and incorporated areas or within designated rural
centers.
A large portion of the County is within the Columbia River Gorge National
Scenic Area, where land uses are subject to the Columbia River Gorge
National Scenic Area Management Plan. The Management Plan provides for
a similar, but separate, set of land uses that include a mix of parks and open
space, forestry, farming, and residential uses. Other areas which also are not
subject to policies in this Plan are described in Chapter 1.
“We value all the features that make this
a rural place including the quiet open
spaces, vistas of productive farm and
forest lands and of Mt. Hood, country
roads, healthy air, soils and streams, and
a night sky where we can clearly see the
stars.”
- West of Sandy River Vision Statement
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan Land Use   |    2-3
Relevant Studies and Planning Processes
A variety of state, regional, and local plans and policies are relevant to land
use planning in Multnomah County, including the following.
Oregon’s Statewide Planning Goal 2, Land Use Planning, requires local
governments to establish, update, and implement Comprehensive Plans.
Comprehensive Plans, such as this one, provide policy direction based on the
expected growth and changes over the next 20 years or more.
The Metro Urban Growth Management Functional Plan provides policy
direction for local jurisdictions within Metro’s boundary to meet the goals of
the 2040 Growth Concept, Metro’s long-range growth management plan for
the Portland metropolitan area. Policy directions from the Functional Plan are
required to be adopted by local governments in their Comprehensive Plans
and implementing ordinances.
In the past, Multnomah County created Rural Area Plans to plan for the
unique geographic and environmental needs and constraints of its distinct
unincorporated subareas. The four Rural Area Plans covered the following
subareas: East of Sandy River, Sauvie Island/Multnomah Channel, West
Hills, and West of Sandy River. Each plan provided an inventory of existing
conditions such as resources and facilities as well as a set of policies
guiding action over a 15 to 20 year planning horizon. Except for the Sauvie
Island/Multnomah Channel Plan adopted in 2015 that is an appendix to this
Comprehensive Plan, the three other historic Rural Area Plans are repealed
upon adoption of this Comprehensive Plan, with the relevant documentation,
policies, and strategies being incorporated into this Plan.
Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area (CRGNSA) Management
Plan. This plan provides policy guidance for future development and other
land use actions within the CRGNSA. In addition, the County’s Zoning Code
includes a chapter that implements these policies for that area.
Multnomah County’s Zoning Code is organized by rural and urban
subareas, overall administrative procedures, and general building regulations.
The rural and urban subareas (Rural Zoning Code and Urban Zoning Code)
contain detailed descriptions of zoning districts and specify what uses are
allowed outright or conditionally in each zone. In addition, the codes contain
procedures for various land use issues, including design review, variances,
and land divisions. The administrative procedures are the processes and
procedures by which the County reviews and decides upon applications for all
permits relating to the use of land. The building regulations, applicable to most
unincorporated areas, include permit processes for electrical, plumbing, and
grading, as well as street standards.
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan Land Use   |    2-4
The Zoning Code will be reorganized to consolidate the different subarea
chapters into a single, streamlined ordinance.
As set forth in further detail in Appendix A, the Multnomah County
Zoning Map serves as the statutorily-required comprehensive map for this
Comprehensive Plan.
The Hazards Mitigation Plan is a planning document, which meets federal
requirements by addressing hazards, vulnerability, and risk. The mitigation plan
is a necessary requirement for federal mitigation grant fund eligibility. Relevant
policies from that document have been incorporated into various chapters of
this Plan. The Hazards Mitigation Plan also is referenced here as a supporting
document of the Comprehensive Plan.
The 2015 Climate Action Plan serves as the 40-year roadmap for the
institutional and individual change needed to meet an 80% reduction of
community-wide greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. The County Climate
Action Plan is regularly updated. The County has made substantial progress
in carrying out actions under the previously adopted 2014 Climate Change
Preparation Strategy. Relevant policies from that document have been
incorporated into various chapters of this Plan, including policies related to
green building practices.
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan Land Use   |    2-5
Columbia
County
Clark
County
Washington
County
CorneliusPassRoad
CornellRoad
SauvieIsland Rd
SpringvilleRoad
Germ
antown
Road
Reeder Road
GillihanRoad
Skyline Boulevard
ß/30
ß/26
vÍÎ120
vÍÎ219
vÍÎ99E
vÍÎ8
§¨¦
5
§¨¦
405
§¨¦
84
[012 0.5
Miles
Date:
10/13/2016
Prepared By:
Angelo Planning Group
County Boundaries
Subareas
West Hills
CFU1
CFU2
CFU5
EFU
MUA20
RC
RR
Sauvie Island
EFU
MUA20
RC
Multnomah County
Zoning
West Multnomah County
Coordinate System:
NAD 1983 HARN State Plane Oregon North FIPS 3601
Source:
Multnomah County
Disclaimer:
Unofficial depiction, for illustrative purposes only.
Figure 2-1 - Multnomah County Zoning Map
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan Land Use   |    2-6
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan Land Use   |    2-7
Key Planning Issues and Supporting
Information
Based on extensive outreach and solicitation of feedback from Community
PHPEHUVDQXPEHURINH\SODQQLQJLVVXHVKDYHEHHQLGHQWL¿HGWKDWDIIHFW
land use planning policies and practices in the rural portions of Multnomah
County, including the following:
• Implementation of State rules and regulations. State laws and
administrative rules provide the underpinnings for how cities and counties
regulate land use in Oregon and form the basis for many of the policies
in this section of the Plan. However, Multnomah County has some ability
WRWDLORUVSHFL¿FSROLFLHVDQGVWDQGDUGVWRDGGUHVVORFDOQHHGVSULRULWLHV
and conditions. Both community members and the Community Advisory
Committee (CAC) discussed and commented on this issue at length
during the most recent update of the Comprehensive Plan. The majority
of people who participated in the process agreed that in some cases, it is
appropriate to implement County policies that are stronger than minimum
state requirements to ensure protection of farm and forest land and
to minimize impacts of development on surrounding farm and forestry
operations and other land uses. Examples of this approach include policies
on “aggregation”, agri-tourism, and forest dwellings.
• Rural character. The importance of protecting the rural character of
the rural portions of Multnomah County has been a recurring theme in
previous rural area planning efforts and during the County’s most recent
Comprehensive Plan update. This generally translates into policies to
maintain relatively low densities of development, support and maintain farm
and forest uses and operations, build compact “non-urban” roads and other
SXEOLFIDFLOLWLHVDQGSURWHFWQDWXUDODQGVFHQLFUHVRXUFHV'H¿QLWLRQVRI
rural character are found in Chapter 1 of this Plan.
• Urban Growth Boundary/Urban and Rural Reserves. Multnomah
County coordinates with the Metro regional government in regional growth
management and planning efforts. Metro is responsible for maintaining
the region’s urban growth boundary (UGB) and for designating Urban
Reserves in cooperation with counties. Counties designate Rural Reserves
in cooperation with Metro. Designation of the UGB and reserves affects
policies and standards for land use and development within them.
• Natural resources and hazards. There is strong support among County
residents for protecting natural resources and minimizing the impacts of
natural hazards. Chapters 5 and 7 of this Plan address this topic in detail.
+RZHYHUWKHUHLVDVLJQL¿FDQWDPRXQWRIFURVVRYHUEHWZHHQWKLVWRSLFDQG
other land use planning policies found in this chapter.
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan Land Use   |    2-8
• Rural residential, commercial, industrial, and other non-farm and
non-forest development. For the most part, these types of development
occur outside the County farm and forest zones in areas designated for
non-farm and non-forest development, including rural residential areas and
rural centers. Issues of community importance include the ability to reuse
vacant commercial and industrial buildings, potential impacts of increased
development on water quality, and opportunities for businesses in rural
centers to serve both the rural centers and surrounding areas.
• Home occupations. State law allows for certain types of “home
occupations” (businesses occurring within a residence) in farm and forest
zones as conditional uses. Counties can allow these uses in farm and
forest zones and may regulate home occupations to minimize their impacts
on surrounding uses. Some commercial activities can be permitted outright
within a residence if they operate in a manner that is indistinguishable from
the residential use of a dwelling.
• Site and development standards. The County’s Zoning Code includes a
variety of standards for how homes, businesses, and other structures are
located on a property and designed. Community members have stressed
DGHVLUHIRUÀH[LELOLW\WKDWEDODQFHVGHYHORSPHQWZLWKVWDQGDUGVWKDWKHOS
preserve rural character and reduce the impacts of a given development on
VXUURXQGLQJSURSHUWLHVDQGUHVLGHQWV7KLVLQFOXGHVÀH[LELOLW\LQVWDQGDUGV
for parking and landscaping, along with potential new standards for
building design that emphasize rural character.
• Land use permitting process. Applying for a land use permit can be a
challenging and complex process. Many permitting standards, processes,
and timelines are set by state law. Community members have consistently
stressed the need for the County to be fair, consistent, and reasonable in
their approach to requiring and reviewing development permits.
• Grading and Fill. )LOOGLUWLVRIWHQLPSRUWHGWRUHVRXUFH]RQHGODQGV7KH¿OO
frequently comes from an urban site being prepared for development and
IDUPHUVLQUHVRXUFHDUHDVZLOOVRPHWLPHVDFFHSW¿OOWRLPSURYHWKHSRWHQWLDO
for growing crops by making the land better drained and more level, and/
or by placing good topsoil on top of less productive soil.  The County allows
this practice and the County’s zoning ordinance includes exemptions from
obtaining a grading and erosion control permit, including an exemption
for “routine agricultural management practices.”  However, problems can
DULVHZKHQSURSHUW\RZQHUVUHFHLYLQJ¿OOFODLPWKHH[HPSWLRQHYHQWKRXJK
WKHYROXPHTXDOLW\DQGH[WHQWRIWKH¿OOVXJJHVWWKDWXVHRIWKH¿OOJRHV
beyond routine agricultural practices.
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan Land Use   |    2-9
GOAL, POLICIES, AND STRATEGIES
Goal: 7 RLPSOHPHQWDQHI¿FLHQWODQGXVHSODQQLQJSURFHVVDQGSROLF\
framework as a basis for all decisions and actions related to use of land that
is consistent with state law and community goals and priorities, addresses or
PLWLJDWHVSRWHQWLDOFRQÀLFWVEHWZHHQGLIIHUHQWODQGXVHVDQGLVLPSOHPHQWHGLQ
a fair, equitable and reasonable manner.
Policies and Strategies Applicable County-wide
Growth Management and Regional Coordination
Within the Portland region, Metro has responsibility for managing the regional
Urban Growth Boundary (UGB) in coordination with Multnomah County and
other cities and counties. The UGB is intended to include enough land to
accommodate a 20-year supply and all urban development is required to occur
within the boundary. In addition to managing the UGB, Metro works with local
jurisdictions to establish Urban and Rural Reserves. The purpose of urban and
rural reserves is to facilitate planning for urbanization of the Portland metro
region over the 50 year plan period from 2010 to 2060. Urban reserves provide
greater certainty about the future location of possible urban growth boundary
expansion. Rural reserves provide long-term protection of farm and forest land
as well as important natural landscape features that enhance the unique sense
of place of the region.
The reserves plan relies on designation of urban reserves land, which can only
be designated by Metro, and on rural reserve land that can only be designated
by the County. Because of this division of authority in the reserves plan, the
County has amended its plan and zoning map to adopt rural reserves, and also
VKRZVXUEDQUHVHUYHGHVLJQDWLRQV3ROLFLHVLQWKLVVHFWLRQUHÀHFWWKLVSURFHVV
along with related regional and local goals and policies.
2.1 Coordinate with Metro in its role to establish and maintain an Urban
Growth Boundary in accord with the following:
1. Metro’s authority under state law to establish and change the
UGB.
2. The procedures adopted by Metro for UGB amendments.
3. The requirements of statewide Goal 14 on UGB amendments
and any applicable statute pertaining to UGB amendments.
2.2 Transfer land use jurisdiction to Multnomah County cities for
the unincorporated lands within the Urban Growth Boundary
in accordance with approved urban planning area agreements
between the County and the cities.
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan Land Use   |    2-10
2.3 Support higher densities and mixed land uses within the Urban
Growth Boundary.
2.4 Establish and maintain rural reserves in coordination with urban
reserves adopted by Metro and in accord with the following
principles:
1. Areas shown as rural reserve on the County plan and zone map
shall be designated and maintained as rural reserves to protect
agricultural land, forest land, and important landscape features.
2. Rural reserves designated on the plan map shall not be
included within any UGB in the county for 50 years from the
date of the ordinance adopting the reserves designations.
3. Areas designated rural reserves in the county shall not be re-
designated as urban reserves for 50 years from the date of the
ordinance adopting the reserves designations.
4. The County will participate together with an appropriate city in
development of a concept plan for an area of urban reserve that
is under consideration for addition to the UGB.
5. The County will review the designations of urban and rural
reserves, in coordination with Metro and Clackamas and
Washington Counties, 20 years from the date of the ordinance
adopting the reserves designations, or earlier upon agreement
of Metro and the other two counties.
6. The County will not amend the zoning to allow new uses or
increased density in rural and urban reserve areas except in
compliance with applicable state rules.
Strategy 2.4-1: The urban and rural reserve program for the
Portland Metro region is predicated on coordination between
Multnomah, Clackamas, and Washington Counties and Metro. As a
part of continuing efforts to implement this long-term program, the
County has agreed to:
1. Amend the Multnomah County plan and zoning map to show
areas designated by Metro as urban reserve and areas
designated by Multnomah County as rural reserve.
2. Participate with Clackamas and Washington counties and Metro
to consider proposals for major or minor amendments to the
reserves maps that may occur prior to the end of the 50-year
reserves planning period.
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan Land Use   |    2-11
3. Consider the suitability of any lands not designated as urban
or rural reserve for such designation during the reserves plan
review that is intended to occur within 20 years of the initial
reserves designations.
Strategy 2.4-2: A key element of the reserves program is that
LGHQWL¿FDWLRQRIODQGVXLWDEOHIRUXUEDQUHVHUYHSURYLGHVWKH
certainty needed for local governments and service providers to
plan for future service needs in UGB expansion areas. The County
will participate with Metro and an appropriate city in concept
planning of urban reserve areas under consideration for inclusion
within the UGB subject to the principles:
1. &RQFHSWSODQQLQJIRUVSHFL¿FHQXPHUDWHGXUEDQUHVHUYHVRQ
the urban and rural reserves map may occur separately and at
different times.
2. A concept plan for any urban reserve area must be approved
by the county, the city or cities who will govern the area, and by
Metro.
3. Concept plans shall provide that any area added to the UGB
shall be governed by an existing city, or by a new city, and
VKDOOLQFOXGHSURYLVLRQIRUWKHRUGHUO\HI¿FLHQWWUDQVLWLRQIURP
urbanizable to urban land. The preferred approach is for existing
county zoning and rural level of services to remain in effect until
new urban areas are annexed into the designated city.
4. Concept planning for urban reserve areas that are suitable
for industrial and other employment uses will recognize the
opportunity to provide jobs in this part of the region.
5. Concept planning for urban reserve areas that are suitable for
a mix of urban uses will recognize the opportunity to provide
employment and mixed-use centers with housing at higher
GHQVLWLHVDQGHPSOR\PHQWDWKLJKHUÀRRUWRDUHDUDWLRVDQGZLOO
include designs for a walkable, transit-supportive development
pattern.
6. Concept planning shall recognize environmental and
topographic constraints and habitat areas and will reduce
housing and employment capacity expectations accordingly.
7. Concept plans shall be designed to avoid or minimize adverse
effects on farm and forest practices, and on important natural
landscape features on nearby rural land.
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan Land Use   |    2-12
Rural Residential Areas
Most residential uses in the rural portions of the County that are not related to
agricultural and forestry operations occur in areas zoned for rural residential
use or in designated rural centers. This type of development is already well
established in these areas and future similar development is not expected to
cause the loss of either rural character or natural resource lands. The intensity
of the land use pattern is based on the capacity of land and the ability to
accommodate such uses, the existing level of services, state requirements
associated with lot sizes and density, and the goals of retaining rural character
and protecting natural resources in these areas.
In general, these areas are not suitable for commercial farm or forest
operations because of the existing land use pattern of development, small
parcel sizes, non-aggregated ownership, and largely non-commercial resource
uses. Small scale agriculture and forestry operations may occur and are, in
fact, considered to be an integral part of the rural residential environment.
2.5 Designate limited areas for rural residential development based
upon the following criteria:
1. 6LJQL¿FDQWSDUFHOL]DWLRQZKHQDQDYHUDJHRI¿YH

DFUHVRU
less has already occurred, the majority of which are separately
owned and developed;
2. The area is not a cohesive commercial farm or forest resource
area;
3. The designated area is compatible with any adjacent farm or
IRUHVWXVHVDQGZRXOGQRWFDXVHDQ\VXEVWDQWLDOFRQÀLFWZLWK
these natural resource uses;
4. The land resource is predominantly forest or forest-agricultural
in nature (discounting the residences), rather than agricultural
in character;
5. There are no physical development limitations which would
cause the area to be hazardous for development; and
6. Limited, but adequate, services must be available for the area,
including those provided on-site (water and subsurface sewage
GLVSRVDO
DVZHOODVRIIVLWH
VFKRRO¿UHSROLFH

2.6 Protect farmland and forest land from encroachment by residential
and other non-farm or non-forest uses that locate in the RR zone.
2.7 Ensure that new, replacement, or expanding uses in the RR zone
minimize impacts to farm and forest land by requiring recordation of
a covenant that recognizes the rights of adjacent farm and forestry
practices.
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan Land Use   |    2-13
2.8 New non-agricultural businesses should be limited in scale and type
to serve the needs of the local rural area.
Strategy 2.8-1: Review the appropriateness of review uses,
conditional uses and community service uses in the RR zone
through a public process that involves community stakeholders
prior to amending the Zoning Code
Rural Centers, Commercial, and Industrial Uses
Areas designated for rural centers contain limited commercial, community
service, industrial, and residential uses. Public sewer service is not available in
these areas and other support services are usually limited. The intensities and
types of uses located within these centers must be appropriate to the character
of the rural area. The size of commercial and industrial uses in rural centers is
limited by state law and local zoning standards in order to be compatible with
the rural character.
These areas are intended to provide rural services for the residents and
businesses located within them; they are not intended to encourage growth as
dense communities. The location of these areas and arrangement of land uses
within them will be guided by the policies contained in this Plan.
Commercial uses within unincorporated areas of the County are predominantly
found in rural centers and largely support those communities and surrounding
areas, as well as people passing through. They are not intended to be
destinations for people coming from urban areas of the County. The availability
and accessibility of consumer goods and services enhances a community’s
economic base and livability.
2I¿FHXVHVORFDWHGLQUXUDOFHQWHUVPD\LQFOXGHVHUYLFHVWRWKHSXEOLFDVZHOO
as those for other businesses in the surrounding areas. In addition to providing
needed services, these uses also provide employment for a number of people,
DVZHOODVEHQH¿WVWRWKHVXUURXQGLQJUXUDOFRPPXQLW\6LPLODUWRFRPPHUFLDO
XVHVRI¿FHXVHVDUHLQWHQGHGWREHOLPLWHGLQVL]HDQGVFDOH
In rural centers, industrial land uses may include manufacturing, storage,
wholesale trade, construction, natural resource, and extractive operations.
Zoning ordinance standards control the design of industrial sites and minimize
impacts on surrounding land uses.
Rural Center Location and Siting
2.9 Establish and maintain Rural Centers which are intended primarily
for commercial and community services needed by the residents of
the rural areas of the County, and to provide some tourist services.
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan Land Use   |    2-14
2.10 Rural Centers are or may be established on the basis of existing
center development, on local area needs, on an evaluation of
probable impacts on adjacent natural resource areas, on the
demand for land to serve the primary purposes in a compact
pattern, and on the capacity and condition of existing support
services.
2.11 Expansion of a Rural Center (RC) to adjacent land shall be based
XSRQ¿QGLQJVWKDW

1. Land zoned EFU or CFU will not be included unless that is the
only land physically available;
2. ,QVXI¿FLHQWYDFDQWDYDLODEOHODQGH[LVWVZLWKLQWKHFHQWHU

3. 7KHH[SDQVLRQZLOOQRWVLJQL¿FDQWO\LPSDFWDGMDFHQWQDWXUDO
resource or rural residential areas, or that such impacts can be
mitigated;
4. The expansion will be adjacent to existing RC boundaries; and
5. The expansion is not for the primary purpose of residential
development.
2.12 The County shall determine the suitability of uses within a Rural
Center by:
1. Measuring the need for a use based upon the primary intent of
the center.
2. 'HWHUPLQLQJWKDWVXI¿FLHQWODQGH[LVWVZLWKLQDFHQWHU
to accommodate the needed uses and maintaining a
measurement of absorption rate of vacant lands.
3. Establishing development standards commensurate with the
rural nature of the area.
4. Ensuring that adjacent natural resource areas are minimally
impacted.
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan Land Use   |    2-15
Residential Uses in Rural Centers
2.13 Continue to reinforce the rural nature of designated rural
communities through the zoning code by limiting residential
development to one dwelling unit per Lot of Record.
2.14 Require new residential parcels in the Rural Center zone to be at
least one acre in size in order to not increase residential density
and to ensure that the carrying capacity of public services and the
environment is not exceeded.
2.15 Accommodate permitted growth and development within
designated rural communities while preserving their rural function
and appearance.
Commercial Uses in Rural Centers
2.16 Ensure that new commercial and industrial uses within rural centers
DUHVPDOOVFDOHDQGORZLPSDFWLQQDWXUHDVGH¿QHGE\&RXQW\FRGH
so that these uses will not adversely impact agriculture or forestry
uses and will reinforce the rural nature of the community, while
also providing economic and employment opportunities by allowing
IRUWKHPD[LPXPXVHRIÀRRUDUHDIRUH[LVWLQJODZIXOO\HVWDEOLVKHG
buildings and parking areas to the extent allowed by State law.
Commercial uses shall serve the rural community and surrounding
area but industrial uses need not serve the rural community and
surrounding area.
2.17 Improve the availability and accessibility of consumer goods and
services for rural areas by supporting the location and scaling of
commercial development in rural centers to meet the needs of the
surrounding community and reinforce community identity.
2.18 Encourage land use development patterns which support the
HI¿FLHQWXVHRIH[LVWLQJUXUDOFHQWHUV
2.19 Locate commercial activities in rural centers which are planned and
developed as a unit related in location, size, and type of shops to
the trade area to be serviced and to create aesthetically attractive
community focal points.
2.20 Provide for tourist commercial uses in clusters at highway
interchanges or in areas with special tourist attractions.
2.21 Provide for home occupations and small business in rural centers
to assist in developing new business opportunities and to increase
convenience to rural residents.
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan Land Use   |    2-16
2.22 0LQLPL]HDGYHUVHLPSDFWVRIFRPPHUFLDORI¿FHDQGLQGXVWULDO
development on adjacent development, including residential uses,
through site location and design standards.
2.23 Reduce crime through design and site location based on the
principles of defensible space.
2.24 6XSSRUWFRPPHUFLDORI¿FHDQGLQGXVWULDOGHYHORSPHQWVLWLQJDQG
expansion at sites of a size which can accommodate the present
and future uses and is of a shape which allows for a site layout
in a manner which maximizes user convenience and energy
conservation.
2.25 Promote compatible development and minimize adverse impacts
of site development on adjacent properties and the surrounding
community through the application of design review standards.
2I¿FH8VHVLQ5XUDO&HQWHUV
2.26 /RFDWHRI¿FHVHUYLFHVLQUXUDOFHQWHUVZKHUHWKH\FDQEHVW
serve households and businesses within rural centers and the
surrounding rural community by providing jobs and services close
to where people live.
2.27 3URYLGHVLWLQJDQGH[SDQVLRQRSSRUWXQLWLHVWRRI¿FHXVHVPHHWLQJ
their locational and development requirements.
2.28 6XSSRUWWKHORFDWLRQRIRI¿FHFRPPHUFLDODQGLQGXVWULDODFWLYLWLHV
on existing transportation systems with volume capacities and
modal mixes available and appropriate to serve present and future
scales of operation.
Industrial Uses in Rural Centers
2.29 Protect the stability and functional aspects of industrial uses by
protecting them from incompatible uses.
2.30 3URPRWHHFRQRPLFGLYHUVL¿FDWLRQDQGJURZWKLQUXUDOFHQWHUVE\
allowing appropriate industrial uses meeting locational and site
requirements appropriate to the rural character of the center and
surrounding area.
2.31 Encourage the siting and expansion of industrial uses in rural
centers to meet the needs for jobs by rural residents.
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan Land Use   |    2-17
2.32 Ensure that impacts to EFU and CFU zoned land from new or
expanding uses in adjacent RC zones are minimized by requiring
“right to farm” measures to be implemented in those areas. These
measures can be in the form of maintaining a larger setback
between the new development and the zone boundary, and/or
requiring recordation of a covenant that recognizes the rights of
adjacent farm and forest managers to farm their land and practice
forest management.
2.33 Implement regulations to ensure that new or expanded commercial
and industrial development will not exceed the capacity of water
supply and waste disposal services available to the site, or if such
services are not available to the site, the capacity of the site itself to
provide water and manage wastewater, including sewage.
2.34 Implement regulations to ensure that new or expanded commercial
and industrial uses will not result in public health hazards or
adverse environmental impacts.
2.35 Ensure that new and expanded commercial or industrial uses are
subject to design review in order to ensure compatibility with the
community character.
Home Occupations
Multnomah County undertook an extensive review of its standards related
WRKRPHRFFXSDWLRQVLQDQGUH¿QHGWKRVHVWDQGDUGVDWWKDWWLPH7KH
updated standards are consistent with state law and allow home occupations
in farm and forest zones. The level of review depends on the scale of the
home occupation, with three categories of occupations and associated land
XVHSHUPLWWLQJDQGUHYLHZSURFHVVHV7KHIROORZLQJSROLF\DI¿UPVWKH&RXQW\¶V
approach to this issue.
2.36 Allow for home occupations wherever dwellings are permitted
in order to assist in developing new business opportunities and
to increase convenience to residents, while considering and
minimizing impacts on adjacent land uses.
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan Land Use   |    2-18
Community Identity and Design
Community identity is a feeling people have about their community. An
LGHQWL¿DEOHFRPPXQLW\DOORZVDSHUVRQWRLPPHGLDWHO\KDYHDSODFHRI
reference. For those people who live in a community, it provides a sense
of place and belonging. A sense of identity tends to generate pride and
encourages people to maintain and enhance their place of residence.
Residents of rural Multnomah County highly value the rural character of the
area and strongly desire to maintain it.
&RPPXQLW\FKDUDFWHUDQGLGHQWLW\FDQEHLQÀXHQFHGWRDODUJHGHJUHHE\WKH
design of properties and buildings. Design policies and standards address
the location, scale, and design of land uses and their relationship to one
another. This may include how a building is located on a property, how
SDUNLQJLVFRQ¿JXUHGZKDWW\SHVRIVLJQVDUHXVHGXVHRIODQGVFDSLQJDQG
the architectural design of buildings. The purpose of site and building design
VWDQGDUGVLVWRSURPRWHFRPPXQLW\LGHQWLW\DQGFKDUDFWHUWRPLQLPL]HFRQÀLFWV
in the location and development of different land uses in the same area, and to
KHOSDVVXUHHI¿FLHQWVDWLVI\LQJDQGVDIHODQGGHYHORSPHQWVRIODVWLQJYDOXH
DQGEHQH¿W
2.37 Create, maintain or enhance rural community identity by:
1. Identifying and reinforcing community boundaries;
2. Identifying important natural landscape features;
3. 5HTXLULQJLGHQWL¿HGLPSRUWDQWQDWXUDOODQGVFDSHIHDWXUHVEH
preserved as part of the development process.
Strategy 2.37-1: Maintain an inventory of important natural
landscape features in each rural community and preserve them
through the Design Review Process or other appropriate means.
Strategy 2.37-2: Identify the need and appropriate locations for
public facilities.
2.38 Implement design standards regulating commercial and industrial
GHYHORSPHQWZKLFKUHÀHFWDQGHQKDQFHWKHUXUDOFKDUDFWHURIUXUDO
centers. Design standards shall be oriented to rural areas and
may differ from those applied in urban areas of the County. Where
DSSURSULDWHGHVLJQVWDQGDUGVVKRXOGLQFOXGHÀH[LELOLW\DVVRFLDWHG
with landscaping, parking, or other site and design requirements.
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan Land Use   |    2-19
2.39 Maintain a design review process which:
1. Evaluates and locates development proposals in terms of scale
and related community impacts with the overall purpose being
a complementary land use pattern that limits adverse impacts
on farm and forest practices, on wildlife, and natural and
environmental resources.
2. Evaluates individual public and private developments from
a functional design perspective, considering such factors as
privacy, noise, lights, signage, access, circulation, parking,
provisions for the handicapped and crime prevention
techniques.
3. Allows for an administrative procedure with an appeal process,
DQGXVLQJFULWHULDDQGJXLGHOLQHVGHYHORSHGVSHFL¿FDOO\IRUWKH
different type of land use developments.
4. Establishes criteria and standards for preexisting uses
commensurate with the scale of the new development
proposed.
5. Regulates commercial and industrial development in a manner
WKDWUHÀHFWVDQGHQKDQFHVWKHUXUDOFKDUDFWHURIGHVLJQDWHG
rural communities.
Strategy 2.39-1: Maintain an expeditious Design Review Process
with provisions for enforcing requirements.
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan Land Use   |    2-20
Strategy 2.39-2: The following strategies should be maintained as
a part of the Zoning Ordinance:
1. Design Review Provisions should be maintained with objectives
to:
a. Preserve and enhance the amenities of the natural and
developed environment;
b. Maintain and improve the qualities of, and relationships
among, buildings and surrounding uses;
c. Ensure that individual development contributes to a quality
environment for people utilizing the development; and
d. Encourage consideration for the climate, soil capabilities
and limitations, topography, and natural vegetation in the
site plan.
2. Design Review Criteria should be maintained related to:
a. Identity;
b. Site Layout, considering such factors as: climate, privacy,
usable outdoor areas, topography, vegetation, natural
drainage, use by handicapped (as required under the State
Uniform Building Code, O.R.S. 447.210 - 447.310, and all
other applicable requirements), and crime prevention;
c. Private outdoor spaces;
d. Parking;
e. Circulation;
f. Service and delivery areas;
g. Entry areas;
h. Outdoor storage;
i. Landscaping;
j. Connection to the street and parking areas;
k. Building orientation on-site as related to crime prevention;
l. Safety and privacy; and
m. Preservation of important natural landscape features.
n. Architectural design of commercial, industrial and civic uses
that enhances design quality and ensures compatibility with
surrounding rural character; and
o. Dark sky outdoor lighting.
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan Land Use   |    2-21
Permitting, Code Enforcement, and Other Procedural Issues
Most types of development in Multnomah County require some type of land
use permit. The County’s Zoning Code includes standards and procedures
for permit applications, processing and approval of such permits. County staff
VWULYHVWRFRQGXFWWKHVHSURFHVVHVLQDIDLUUHDVRQDEOHDQGHI¿FLHQWPDQQHU
but the sheer complexity of the state and local regulations being administered
can make this a challenge.
Similarly, the County is responsible for enforcing its development and land
use standards. Given the limited staff resources available to enforce the code
within the large land area involved, the majority of enforcement is done through
a complaint driven process. County staff generally relies on County residents
to report potential code violation issues before investigating them. Once they
DUHLQYHVWLJDWHGDQGDI¿UPHG&RXQW\VWDIIZRUNVFRRSHUDWLYHO\ZLWKSURSHUW\
RZQHUVWRUHVROYHWKHLVVXH
V
LISRVVLEOHEHIRUHUHVRUWLQJWR¿QHVRURWKHU
enforcement actions to ensure compliance.
2.40 Ensure that the County’s development permitting procedures and
requirements are consistent with state planning requirements,
while also being fair and equitable to community members and
minimizing the time and expense required to obtain needed permits.
Strategy 2.40-1:3HULRGLFDOO\UHYLHZDQGUH¿QHSHUPLWWLQJ
requirements, as needed, in consultation with affected community
members and staff, to simplify requirements, and reduce related
time and expense for applicants while continuing to ensure
FRQVLVWHQF\ZLWK6WDWHDQG&RXQW\PDQGDWHV3RWHQWLDOUH¿QHPHQWV
VKDOOEHEDVHGRQUHFXUULQJLVVXHVLGHQWL¿HGE\FRPPXQLW\
members or county representatives.
2.41 Enforce compliance with the County Comprehensive Plan and
Zoning Code in a fair and consistent manner in all cases of
YHUL¿DEOHFRGHYLRODWLRQV
Strategy 2.41-1: Coordinate and work with appropriate local,
state, and federal agencies to ensure compliance with the County’s
Comprehensive Plan and Zoning Code.
Strategy 2.41-2: To ensure compliance, the County Zoning Code
shall provide the County a method and degree of enforcement
WKDWEHVW¿WVWKHW\SHDQGFLUFXPVWDQFHVRIDJLYHQYLRODWLRQRIWKH
County Comprehensive Plan or Zoning Code.
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan Land Use   |    2-22
Strategy 2.41-3: Seek voluntary compliance by providing the
person(s) responsible for an actual or alleged code violation with
information about the County’s Zoning Code and by providing
such person(s) an opportunity to comply with the County’s
Comprehensive Plan and Zoning Code within reasonable
timeframes with little or no penalty. Such timeframes should be
closely monitored and enforced to avoid unnecessary delays to
achieving compliance.
Strategy 2.41-4: Fines should be set at a level that will prevent
willful violators from becoming unjustly enriched and will serve
as an incentive for voluntary code compliance. Knowing or willful
YLRODWLRQVZLOOUHVXOWLQ¿QHVWKDWDUHVXEVWDQWLDODQGREMHFWLYH
Grading and Fill
The following policy and strategy are intended to ensure that exemptions
IRUWKHXVHRI¿OOIRUDJULFXOWXUDOWRSVRLODUHLQIDFWXVHGIRUWKDWSXUSRVHDQG
WKDWYROXPHVRI¿OOGRQRWH[FHHGZKDWZRXOGW\SLFDOO\EHQHHGHGRUXVHGDV
topsoil.
2.42 (VWDEOLVKVWDQGDUGVIRUTXDOLI\LQJWRSVRLO¿OODVDURXWLQHDJULFXOWXUDO
management practice exempt from County review requirements.
Strategy 2.42-1: The following shall be considered for inclusion
LQFRGHDPHQGPHQWVSHUWDLQLQJWRWRSVRLO¿OODVDQDJULFXOWXUDO
management practice:
1. Existing conditions and soil types.
2. Review thresholds.
3. Review the Grading and Erosion Control submittal requirements
and the Large Fills submittal requirements when considering
application submittal requirements for agricultural topsoil
reviews. Additionally, applications should include the proposed
location, extent, volume, depth, material and soil type, timing
RIWKHSURMHFWIURPVWDUWWR¿QLVKDQGDIDUPPDQDJHPHQWSODQ
demonstrating how the topsoil will be employed in conjunction
ZLWKIDUPXVH
IDUPXVHDVGH¿QHGLQ256

4. The Planning Director may require concurrence from experts
from agencies such as, but not limited to, the Oregon
Department of Agriculture and the local Soil and Water
Conservation Service.
5. *UDGLQJDQG¿OOPDWHULDOXVHGIRUUHFRQWRXULQJRUOHYHOLQJ
agricultural sites should not be reviewed as a topsoil project and
should continue to be reviewed under applicable Grading and
Erosion Control standards or Hillside Development standards.
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan Land Use   |    2-23
2.43 (VWDEOLVKOLPLWVIRU¿OOWKDWGRHVQRWTXDOLI\DVDQDJULFXOWXUDO
management practice and is subject to County review
requirements.
Strategy 2.43-1: Amend the Zoning Code to clarify that in all
zones except for the MUA-20 and RR zones, a total cumulative limit
RIFXELF\DUGVRI¿OOSHUHDFK/RWRI5HFRUGLVDOORZHG/DUJH
Fills exceeding 5,000 cubic yards are only permitted in the MUA-20
and RR zones subject to approval of a Conditional Use permit.
Strategy 2.43-2: $PHQGWKH=RQLQJ&RGHWRFODULI\WKDW/DUJH)LOOV
must be in conjunction to an approved use.
2.44 (VWDEOLVKFOHDUO\GH¿QHGH[HPSWLRQVWRWKH*UDGLQJDQG(URVLRQ
Control permit requirements.
Strategy 2.44-1: Consider adding thresholds, standards and
GH¿QLWLRQVWRWKHUHVLGHQWLDOJDUGHQLQJDQGODQGVFDSHPDLQWHQDQFH
exemption.
Strategy 2.44-2:&RQVLGHUYHUL¿FDWLRQWKUHVKROGVDQGD
FRQFXUUHQFHUHTXLUHPHQWIRUJUDGLQJDQG¿OOSURMHFWVWKDWDUH
conducted as part of a Forest Practices project.
Community Facilities
&RPPXQLW\IDFLOLWLHVVXFKDVVFKRROVSDUNV¿UHVWDWLRQVDQGFHPHWHULHV
are currently allowed in a number of areas within the County as “conditional
XVHV´LIWKH\PHHWVSHFL¿FFULWHULD7KHIROORZLQJSROLFLHVSURYLGHGLUHFWLRQ
and support for County Zoning Code requirements which guide the decisions
related to these uses
2.45 Support the siting and development of community facilities and
services appropriate to the needs of rural areas while avoiding
adverse impacts on farm and forest practices, wildlife, and natural
and environmental resources including views of important natural
landscape features.
2.46 (QFRXUDJHODQGXVHGHYHORSPHQWZKLFKVXSSRUWVWKHHI¿FLHQWXVH
of existing and planned community facilities.
2.47 Support community facilities siting and development at sites of a
size which can accommodate the present and future uses and is of
a shape which allows for a site layout in a manner which maximizes
user convenience and energy conservation.
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan Land Use   |    2-24
Other Policies
7KHIROORZLQJSROLFLHVDGGUHVVRWKHUODQGXVHSODQQLQJLVVXHVWKDWGRQRW¿W
into the previous policy topics.
2.48 The lawful use of any building, structure or land at the time of the
enactment or amendment of any zoning ordinance or regulation
may be continued, altered, restored or replaced in accordance with
Oregon Revised Statutes 215.130 and 215.135.
2.49 An alteration (including additions) or replacement of a
nonconforming use or structure shall not create a greater adverse
impact on the neighborhood, including but not limited to, noise,
GXVWOLJKWLQJWUDI¿FRGRUZDWHUXVHVHZDJHGLVSRVDOLPSDFWVDQG
safety.
2.50 As part of land use permit approval, impose conditions of approval
that mitigate off-site effects of the approved use when necessary to:
1. Protect the public from the potentially deleterious effects of the
proposed use; or
2. )XO¿OOWKHQHHGIRUSXEOLFVHUYLFHGHPDQGVFUHDWHGE\WKH
proposed use.
2.51 Consider applicable goals of the Climate Action Plan when
developing Zoning Code amendments.
Policies and Strategies Specific to Individual
Subareas
7KHUHDUHQRSROLFLHVLQWKLVFKDSWHUVSHFL¿FWRLQGLYLGXDOUXUDOSODQQLQJDUHDV