BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
PROCLAMATION NO. 2022-078
Proclaiming September, 2022 as Infant Mortality Awareness Month in Multnomah County,
Oregon.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
1. Multnomah County is committed to reducing infant mortality and improving the
health outcomes of Black and Indigenous parents and babies through respectful
community-clinical practices and interventions; and
2. September is Infant Mortality Awareness Month,  an initiative that supports and
inspires people from around the nation to take action in support of the goal to
improve the health and well-being of women, people capable of birth, infants,
children and families; and
3. Infant Mortality Awareness Month is an initiative intended to celebrate infants living
beyond their first year of life; and
4. racial inequities in infant mortality rates persist among Black/African American and
Native/Indigenous communities in Multnomah County and are the result of barriers
in healthcare, employment, and community settings as well as racial and ethnic
discrimination within health care systems; and
5. Multnomah County recognizes the benefits of building on the strengths and
wisdom of our communities; raising up needed changes to support health for
babies birthing people, and caregivers of babies; and the importance of reducing
racial disparities in healthcare and birth outcomes for babies; and;
6. National Infant Mortality Awarenes s Month provides opportunities for our
community to get involved and support Multnomah County Health Department
Parent Child Family Health, Healthy Birth Initiatives, Future Generations
Collaborative, and our partners in Multnomah County; and the opportuni ty to
encourage government agencies, community -based organizations, healthcare
systems and academic institutions to work together to engage in equity efforts in
their communities to eliminate disparities and overall reduce  infant mortality in our
County.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
September, 2022 as Infant Mortality Awareness Month in Multnomah County, Oregon,
in recognition and celebration of the importance of each child born in our community
celebrating their first birthday and living healthy and rewarding lives.
ADOPTED this 8th day of September, 2022.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Lori Stegmann, Vice-Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By
     Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney