BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
RESOLUTION NO.
Approving Library Capital Bond Program Midland Library FAC-1 Construction Plan and
Authorizing the County Chair to Execute a Guaranteed Maximum Price Amendment.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners (“Board”) previously adopted
Resolution 2020-057 on June 25, 2020, authorizing submission to the voters of the County a
measure election with the question of contracting general obligation bonded indebtedness in
the an aggregate principal amount of not to exceed $387,000,000 to finance capital costs,
and repealing certain provisions of Resolution No. 2020-014.
b. On November 3, 2020, voters approved Measure 26-211 “Bonds to Expand, Renovate,
Construct Library Branches, Facilities; Increase Safety,” which authorized the County to issue
general obligation bonds to finance capital costs for updating, renovating, constructing, and
refreshing libraries across the county.
c. In June 2021, the County adopted the FY22 budget, including $387,000,000 for the
Library Capital Bond Program (LCBP).
d. In October 2021, through Resolution 2021-079, the Board approved the FAC-1 Library
Capital Bond Program Plan, including Program and Project charter and scopes,estimated
project costs and schedules, the funding strategy developed in cooperation with the County's
Chief Financial Officer, and design phases.
e. Pursuant to Administrative Procedure FAC-1 and the Library Capital Bond Program
Plan, the enclosed FAC-1 Midland Library Construction Plan (“Construction Plan”) sets forth a
review of the project goals, design effort to date, sustainability status, DEI (Diversity, Equity,
and Inclusion) efforts, the project budget, the project schedule, and next steps.
f. Bora Architects, Inc., partnered with Colloqate Design, was selected to perform design
services. Project design is now complete and in alignment with programmatic and regulatory
requirements.
g. Swinerton Builders, Inc. was selected as Construction Management/General
Contractor (CM/GC) to perform pre-construction services and to negotiate a guaranteed
maximum price for construction services, and, if approved by the Board, execute an
amendment to the CM/GC Contract authorizing Swinerton Builders, Inc. to proceed with
construction of the Project at that price (“GMP Amendment”).
h. In August 2022, the Project received approval from Portland Bureau of Development
Services for a Type II Decision as Case Number File LU 22-134590 AD. The Land Use
Decision was recorded against the property under filing 2022-079779.
2023-004
i. The Project budget totals $31.35 Million, including budget adjustments for broadband
support, collections, specialty items, and market escalation. The negotiated guaranteed
maximum price for construction services is $18,796,960.55
j. The Project Team recommends Board approval of the Construction Plan and the GMP
Amendment.
k. Approval of the Construction Plan and the GMP Amendment is in the best interests of
Multnomah County.
Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves:
1. The Construction Plan is approved and the Project Team is authorized to proceed with
the next steps in the construction phase development of the LCBP Midland Library.
2. The County Chair is authorized to execute the GMP Amendment for the LCBP Midland
Library Project, together with any amendments or any other ancillary instruments, provided
that further Board approval shall be obtained with respect to any modification or amendment
that results in a material increase in the obligations of the County or a material decrease in
the benefits to the County under the Guaranteed Maximum Price Amendment.
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
SUBMITTED BY: Tracey Massey, Director, Department of County Assets
 BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
 Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
 ADOPTED this 19th day of January, 2023.