Page 1 of 3 - Resolution Authorizing the Issuance and Sale of Full Faith and Credit Financing Agreements, Series
3698277.2 001098  FILE
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
RESOLUTION NO. 2022-074
Resolution Authorizing the Issuance and Sale of Full Faith and Credit Financing Agreements, Series 2022, in a
Principal Amount Not to Exceed $25,250,000
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. Multnomah County, Oregon (the “County”) is authorized by Oregon Revised Statutes (“ORS”) Section
271.390 to enter into financing agr eements to finance real or personal property that the Board of County
Commissioners (the “Board”) determines is needed, and to authorize certificates of participation in the
right to receive the payments due from the County under those financing agreements,  so long as the
estimated weighted average life of a financing agreement does not exceed the estimated dollar weighted
average life of the real or personal property that is financed by such financing agreement; and
b. The County is authorized by ORS 287A.105 to incur bonded indebtedness within the meaning of
Section 10, Article XI of the Oregon Constitution  in an amount not to exceed one percent of the rea l
market value of the taxable property in the County in th e form of a financing agreement, and to commit
the County’s full faith and credit and taxing power pursuant to ORS 287A.315 to pay the amounts due
under the financing agreement; a nd
c. It is desirable to obtain financing for the Design and Right of Way p hase of the Burnside Bridge
earthquake readiness project (the “Project”)  in an aggregate prin cipal amount of not more t han
$25, 250,000  pursuant to ORS 271.390 and ORS 287A.105; and
d. The County may incur expenditures (the “Expenditures”) to pay costs of the Project prior to the issuance
of the financing agreement and the Co unty wishes to declare its official intent to reimburse itself for
any Expenditures the County may make from its own funds on the Project  from the proceeds of the
financing agreement, the interest on which may be excluded from gross income under Section 103 of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”).
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves:
SECTION 1. AUTHORIZATION.
The County may finance the Project under the authority of ORS 271.390 and ORS 287A.105, and other
applicable provisions of ORS Chapter 287A,  by entering into one or more financing agreements in an aggregate
principal amount of not more than $25,250,000 (the “Financing Agreements”).  The County may  also pay costs
associated with the Financing Agreements with proceeds of the Financing Agreements.
SECTION 2. FINDING OF NEED.
Pursuant to ORS 271.390, the Board hereby finds that the Project is needed and constitutes real and personal
property.
SECTION 3. DELEGATION.
Page 2 of 3 - Resolution Authorizing the Issuance and Sale of Full Faith and Credit Financing Agreements, Series
3698277.2 001098  FILE
The Chief Financial Officer or the person authorized to act on behalf of the Chief Finance Officer (each of
whom is referred to as a “County Official”) is hereby authorized, on behalf of the County and without further action
by the Board, to:
1) Negotiate, execute, and deliver one or more Financing Agreements to accomplish the financing
authorized in this Resolution.  The Financing Agreements may be in such form and contain such terms as the County
Official may approve.
2) Negotiate, execute and deliver one or more escrow agreements or similar documents (the “Escrow
Agreements”) that provide for the issuance of one or more series of “full faith and credit obligati ons ”
(the “Obligations”) that represent ownership interests in the principal and interest payments due from the County
under the Financing Agreements.  The Escrow Agreements and each series of Obligations may be in such form and
contain such terms as the County Official may approve.
3) Deem final and authorize the distribution of a preliminary official statement for each series of
Obligations and authorize the preparation and distribution of a final official statement or other disclosure document
for each series of Obligations.
4) Undertake to provide continuing disclosure for each series of Obligations in accordance with Rule
15c2-12 of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
5) Apply for ratings for each series of Obligations, determine whether to pur chase municipal bond
insurance or obtain other forms of credit enhancements for each series of Obligations, enter into agreements with
th
e providers of credit enhancement, and execute and deliver related documents.
6) Enter into covenants for the benefit of t he purchasers of the  Financing Agreements and the
Obligations that the County  Official determines are desirable to obtain more favorable terms for the Financing
Agreements and the Obligations.
7) Appoint and enter into agreements with service providers whose services are desirable for the
financing, including municipal advisor, paying agent, and escrow agent.
8) Determine the final principal amount, interest rates and other terms of each Financing Agreement
and each series of Obligations.
9) Solicit competitive bids  for the purchase of the Obligations and award the sale to the bidde rs
offering the most favorable terms to the Co unty, select underwriters to purchase the Obligations and negotiate the
terms of the sale of those Obligations with the underwriters, or place any Financing Agreement directly with a
commercial bank or other lender.
10) Issue any qualifying Financing Agreement as a “tax -exempt bond” bearing interest that is
excludable from gross income under Section 103 of the Code and enter into covenants to maintain the excludability
of interest on those Financing Agreements from gross income under the Code.
11) Issue any Financing Agreement as a “taxable bond” bearing interest that is includable in gro ss
income under the Code.
12) Ex
ecute and deliver any other certificates or documents and take any other actions that the County
Official determines are desirable to carry out this Resolution.
3698277.2 001098  FILE
SECTION 4. SECURITY.
The Financing Agreements shall constitute unconditional obligation s of the County, which are payable
from all legally available funds of the County.  Pursuant to ORS 287A.315, t he County Official may pledge the
County’s full faith and credit and taxing power within the limitations of Sections 11 and 11b of Article XI of the
Oregon Constitution, and any and all of the County’s legally available funds, to make the payments due under the
Financing Agreements.  The Financing Agreements may also be secured by any unspent proceeds of the Financing
Agreements.
SECTION 5. REIMBURSEMENT DECLARATION.
The County hereby declares its official intent to reimburse itself with the proceeds of the Financing
Agreements for any of the Expenditures incurred prior to the issuance of the Financing Agreement s.  This
Resolution is adopted as official action of the County in order to comply with Treasury Regulation Section 1.150-
2 and any other regulations of the Internal Revenue Service relating to the qualification for reimbursement of
Expenditures of the County incurred prior to the date of issue of the Financing Agreements.
SECTION 6. FUTURE DECLARATIONS OF INTENT TO REIMBURSE.
The Chief Financial Officer is hereby authorized to make future declarations of intent to reimburse under
Section 1.150-2 of the federal Income Tax Regulations, on behalf of the County and without further action by the
Board.  All such future declarations shall be in writing and the original or a certified copy of each declaration shall
be maintained in the public records of the County.
SECTION 7. EFFECTIVE DATE.
This Resolution shall take effect immediately upon its adoption.
The Multnomah Board of Commissioners Resolves:
1. Approves and supports the terms articulated in this resolution pertaining to the issuance and sale of the
Agreements.
BOARD O
F COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Lori Stegmann, Vice-Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
SUBMITTED BY: Eric Arellano, Chief Financial Officer
Page 3 of 3 - Resolution Authorizing  the Issuance and Sale of Full Faith and Credit Financing Agreements, Series
ADOPTED this 4th day of August, 2022.