BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
RESOLUTION NO.  2024-021
To Unify the Name of the North-South Road Kane/257th/Graham to 257th Avenue in
the City of Troutdale, Oregon.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. Multnomah County (“County”) received a request from the City of Troutdale
(“City”), located within Multnomah County, to change the name of County Road
No’s. 6001 and 4931 that run through the City of Troutdale.
b. The City has been working with the County,   which has operational and
maintenance responsibilities for the segment of SW 25 7th Drive from SE Stark
Street to NW Frontage Road, on changing the name of County Road No ’s. 6001
and 4931.
c. The current naming convention of County Road No’s. 6001 and 4931 between SE
Stark Street and the east west segment of NW Graham Road includes an
inconsistent set of street names which do not conform with the City’s street
designation code.  The street segment between SE Stark Street and W. Columbia
River Highway is  currently designated as SW 25 7th Drive. The street segment
between W. Columbia River  Highway and NW North Frontage Road is currently
designated as NW Graham Road.
d. The City desires and has requested that County Road No ’s. 6001 and 4931 have
a consistent name for the road as it runs through the City of Troutdale.
e. The City, in accordance with ORS 227.120, provided public hearings and heard
testimony regarding the proposed road name change and concluded that it was in
the public interest to change the name of County Road No ’s. 6001 and 4931 to
257
th Avenue, unanimously adopting City of Troutdale Resolution No. 2601  (see
attached Exhibit A).
f. The City hereby asks for County acknowledgement and acceptance of City of
Troutdale Resolution No. 2601.
g. The City hereby asks that a certified copy of City of Troutdale Resolution No. 2601
be filed for record with the county clerk, county assessor, and county surveyor in
accordance with ORS 227.120. The county surveyor shall enter the new names of
such streets and roads in red ink on the county surveyor’s copy of any filed plat
and tracing thereof which may be affected, together with appropriate notations
concerning the same.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves:
1. To support, acknowledge and accept  the City of Troutdale’s desire to rename
County Road No’s. 6001 and 4931 throughout the City of Troutdale to 257 th
Avenue in accordance with City of Troutdale Resolution No. 2601.
2. To authorize the county surveyor to enter the new names of such streets and roads
in red ink on the county surveyor’s copy of any filed plat and tracing thereof which
may be affected, together with appropriate notations concerning the same.
ADOPTED this 11th day of April, 2024.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Resolution #2601  Page 1 of 2

RESOLUTION NO. 2601

A RESOLUTION TO UNIFY THE NAME OF THE NORTH-SOUTH
ROAD KANE/257TH/GRAHAM TO 257TH AVENUE.

THE TROUTDALE CITY COUNCIL FINDS AS FOLLOWS:

1. The current naming convention of the street between SE Stark Street and the east-
west segment of NW Graham Road includes an inconsistent  set of street names which
do not conform with the City’s street designation code.

2. The street segment between SE Stark Street and W. Columbia River Highway is
currently designated as SW 257th Drive. The street segment between W. Columbia River
Highway and NW North Frontage Road is currently designated as NW Graham Road.

3.  The City Council previously changed the designation of the street  segment north
of I-84 between NW North Frontage Road and NW Graham Road to NW 257
th Drive. The
east-west segment of NW Graham Road was not changed.

4. The City desires to change the street designations for each of these segments to
reflect 257
th Avenue in consensus with Multnomah County and ODOT.

5. The City has been working with its  partner at Multnomah County Transportation,
which has operational and maintenance responsibilities for the segment of SW 257
th Drive
from SE Stark Street to NW Frontage Road, to implement this change.

6. The City has also been working with its partner at Oregon Department of
Transportation, which has operational and maintenance responsibilities for the segment
of NW Graham Road within the Interstate 84 interchange, to implement this change.

7. The proposed renaming of the street between SE Stark Street and the east-west
portion of NW Graham Road will result in a continuous street segment with the same
street designation making navigation easier for Troutdale citizens, businesses, visitors,
and safety providers as well as providing order and consistency in addressing.

8. The proposed street renaming will have minimal impact on surrounding land uses
or existing addresses as property owners use them.

9. The City Council has carefully considered testimony at public meetings  and has
determined that it is in the best interest of the City’s residents to rename the street
Resolution #2601  Page 2 of 2

segment between SE Stark Street and the east-west segment of NW Graham Road  to
257th Avenue.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY
OF TROUTDALE:

Section 1. The City of Troutdale hereby renames the street  (the north-south roadway
commonly called 257th Dr. or Ave.) segment from SE Stark Street northward to the east-
west segment of NW Graham Road (immediately past the driveway to the City’s Water
Pollution Control Facility) to 257th Avenue.

Section 2. That the City Manager Ray Young, Community Development Director David
Berniker, and Finance Director Erich Mueller, (each a "City Official") are designated to act
individually and/or jointly, on behalf of and in the best interest of the City and without
further action by the City Council, and are hereby, authorized , empowered, and directed
to work with Multnoma h County Transportation and Oregon Department of
Transportation, to the extent needed, including execution of such necessary documents
on behalf of the City, to implement the intent of this Resolution.

Section 3. Upon approval of companion action  taken by Multnomah County
Transportation and Oregon Department of Transportation, if such action is deemed
necessary by those agencies , City staff is directed to update property addresses along
the affected street segments to reflect the new street name as well as street prefixes and
street designation in accordance with Chapter 15.30 of the Troutdale Municipal Code.

Section 4. That the Finance Director is authorized and directed to disburse funds,
subject to annual appropriations, as necessary to fulfill the intent of this resolution and the
agreements.

Section 5.  This Resolution shall take effect immediately upon adoption.

 YEAS: 7
 NAYS: 0
 ABSTAINED: 0

 Randy Lauer, Mayor
      Date:  June 28, 2023

___________________________
Sarah Skroch, City Recorder
Adopted:  June 27, 2023