BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
RESOLUTION NO.  2020-028
Approving the Southeast Health Center Structural Repair FAC-1 Preliminary Planning Proposal
and Project Plan.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. The Southeast Health Center building is an own ed property of Multnomah County
located at 3653 SE 34th Avenue in Portland, Oregon.
b. In January of 2018, the Health Department notified Facilities that there was a gap
between the floor and the exterior wall in the NW corner of the building.  Investigation
into this gap, determined that there appeared to be issues with the structure in the NW
corner of the building.  Further investigation found that there were numerous areas of
water damage to the structure and a project was needed to engage professional
engineers to assess the structure and develop a remedy for the situation.
c. In March of 2018 emergency funding was secured to do further investigations and
analysis by an architect and structural engineer. The Architect and Engineer’s
assessment, completed in early May of 2018, recommended shoring of the beams
until permanent replacements of the beams could be completed.
d. The Southeast Health Center structural system supporting the first floor east and west
wings, north and south exterior walls have deteriorated due to moisture damage from
years of water infiltration through the building exterior siding.
e. The proposed Project is the removal and replacement of the deteriorated structural
system supporting the East and West Wings of the Southeast Health Center, along
with replacement of the failed exterior siding and original building windows.
f. Consistent with this Resolution, Design Drawings and the Project are being prepared for
construction. The FAC-1 policy requires Board approval at each significant milestone.
g. The Project team has prepared the Southeast Health Center FAC -1 Preliminary
Planning Proposal and Project Plan, including specified Next Step Activities (“Project
Plan”), enclosed with this agenda item and recommends Board approval thereof.
h. Approval of the Project Plan is in the best interests of Multnomah County.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves:
The Project Plan is approved and the Next Step Activities are authorized, including, but not
limited to, the solicitation of bids or proposals to construct the Project.
ADOPTED this 14th day of May, 2020.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
________________________________
Deborah Kafoury, Chair
SUBMITTED BY: Bob Leek, Director, Department of County Assets
MULTNOMAH COUNTY

Southeast Health Center - Structural Repair

FAC-1 Preliminary Planning Proposal and

Project  Plan

May 2020

PREPARED BY: Project Management Team

IN CONJUNCTION WITH: Multnomah County Facilities and Property Management

Multnomah County Health Department

 Carleton Hart Architecture

FAC-1 Preliminary Planning Proposal and  Project Plan

TABLE OF CONTENTS

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

PART A - INTRODUCTION

●
Project Sponsors and Stakeholders

●
Statement of Need

●
Project Development History

●
Project Status

PART B - SUMMARY OF FINDINGS

●
Project Goals and Objectives

●
Project Scope

●
Building Programming

●
Concept Design Narrative

●
MWSDVESB Participation and Subcontracting Plan

●
Preliminary Milestone Schedule

●
Conceptual Cost Estimate

●
Project Funding

PART C – NEXT STEPS

●
Next Steps

●
Estimate of Next Steps Activities

●
Schedule for Next Steps Activities

PART D - PROJECT MANAGEMENT

●
Project Management Team (PMT)

●
Project Organization Chart

●
Project Communication and Reporting

Executive Summary

The Southeast Health Center, located at 3653 SE 34th Ave provides Medical, Dental, and  Pharmacy

services to the Community, along with Health Department staff office space and assorted community

activities in the Lower Level  meeting areas.  In January of 2018 the Health Department notified the

Facilities property manager that a gap had developed in between the floor and the exterior wall, and the

floor no longer appeared to be level.  After extensive investigation it was determined that the major

glulam (wood) beams supporting the first floor east & west wings, north and south exterior walls have

deteriorated to 50% of their original structural capacity due to moisture damage from years of water

infiltration through the failed building exterior siding.  These beams are temporarily being shored, to

protect the safety of patients, visitors and staff within the building.  These structural beams need to be

replaced along with the existing Exterior Insulation and Finish System (EIFS) exterior cladding that has

failed, and is responsible for the present structural failure.

In March of 2018 emergency funding via the Asset Preservation capital improvement funds was secured

to do further investigations.  Carleton Hart Architects (CHA) is leading the project with ABHT Structural

Engineering providing structural design for the replacement of the deteriorated glulam beams.

Architectural upgrades will include new energy efficient windows to ensure proper flashing to prevent

future water intrusion, in conjunction with the replacement of the failed Exterior Insulation and Finish

System (EFIS)  siding with fiber cement panel siding on the East and West wings of the building that will

provide long lasting durable service for the life of the building.

Preliminary (pre-design) cost estimates were developed to replace the glulam beams, EIFS cladding,

windows, and staff relocations.  Replacing structural members will require phased temporary relocations

of Medical and Dental clinics during the construction period.

Locations where Major Glulam replacement occurs.

FAC-1 Preliminary Planning Proposal and  Project Plan

PART A - INTRODUCTION

Project Sponsors

Multnomah County Health Department

Multnomah County Facilities and Property Management

Project Stakeholders

Multnomah County Board of Commissioners

Multnomah County Facilities and Property Management

Multnomah County Health Department

Statement of Need:

The Southeast Health Center major glulam (wood) beams supporting the first floor east and west wings,

north and south exterior walls have deteriorated to 50% of their original structural capacity due to

moisture damage from years of water infiltration through the building exterior siding.  These beams are

temporarily being shored, to protect the safety of patients, visitors & staff within the building.  These

structural beams need to be replaced along with the existing Exterior Insulation and Finish System (EIFS)

exterior cladding that has failed, and is responsible for the present structural failure.

Project Development History

History:

●
The Southeast Health Center is on the list of Tier 1 buildings (in good condition). At the time the

problem was discovered, neither the interior nor the exterior of the building presented outward

signs of water intrusion or the structural integrity of the building being compromised.

●
In January of 2018, the Health Department notified the Facilities property manager that there

was a gap of nearly one inch between the floor and the exterior wall in Operatory 9 and that the

floor appeared to not be level.  A work order was created and a carpenter investigated the gap

and determined that there appeared to be issues with the structure in the NW corner of the

building. Further investigations by the carpenters and property manager during the month of

January found that there were numerous areas of water damage to the structure and a project

was needed to engage professional engineers to assess the structure and develop a remedy for

the situation.

●
In March of 2018 emergency funding via the Asset Preservation capital improvement fund was

secured to do further investigations and analysis by an architect and structural engineer.   A

contractor was engaged to do selective demolition of portions of the EIFS to expose the beams

to examination. The Architect and Engineer’s  assessment, completed in early May of 2018,

recommended shoring of the beams until permanent replacements of the beams could be

completed. Building occupants and Health Department leadership were notified of the findings

and the shoring was put in place.

●
County records of the building show that the East wing of the Southeast Health Center was built

in 1966. In 1989 the County expanded the clinic and constructed the West wing of the building

and renovated the East Wing, providing new spaces for medical, dental and pharmacy programs.

At that time the EIFS cladding system was installed on both the East and West wings.

○
In researching EIFS, we find that it has been in use since the 1960s in North America,

first on masonry buildings, but since the 1990s the majority of installations have occured

on wood framed buildings. Due to its relatively low cost and ability to provide both

building insulation and a finish material, it became popular in the 1990s. There is now a

known history of water infiltration problems causing damage to buildings. Since 2000,

the recommended detailing for EIFS now includes a drainage plane to let water drain

down and out from behind the cladding.

○
At the time of design and installation in 1989, the water intrusion problems for wood

structures had not demonstrated themselves to the degree that the industry
​
had

recognized the need for the drainage plane, and none was shown on the architectural

drawings or installed by the contractor.

●
In 2014 the Southeast Health Center (SEHC)  which is a Federally Qualified Health Center (FQHC)

received a service expansion grant to expand services at the SEHC.  Any change in hours/location

must be approved by both the Community Health Council (CHC) and Health Resources and

Service Administration (HRSA).

Project Status

The Project Management Team (PMT) was formed with members including Multnomah County Health

Department Administration,
​
Primary Care
​
, Pharmacy & Dental Services, Facilities and  Property

Management, and Carleton Hart Architecture .

Carleton Hart Architects (CHA) is leading the project with ABHT Structural Engineering providing

structural design for the replacement of the deteriorated glulam beams.  Architectural upgrades will

include new energy efficient windows in addition to the replacement of the failed EFIS siding with fiber

cement panel siding  on the East and West wings of the building that will provide a long lasting durable

service for the life of the building.

The Project Management Team is meeting with all affected departments within the SEHC to discuss all

potential programming disruptions and service relocations that the project will necessitate.

Contracts for services with the architect have been developed, and the project design is nearing

completion and will be ready for Permitting with the City of Portland in the spring of 2020.

The team will present this FAC-1 Preliminary Planning Proposal to the Board of County Commissioners in

February of 2020 for authorization to proceed with project permitting and release for competitive

bidding of the project.

The scope, costs and schedule of this new project are presented within this Preliminary Planning

Proposal.

FAC-1 Preliminary Planning Proposal and  Project Plan

PART B - SUMMARY OF FINDINGS

Project Goals & Objectives

GUIDING PRINCIPLES

●
Provide a safe and welcoming facility for patients, staff, and visitors who utilize the SEHC.

●
Design a fiscally responsible project that will serve the community into the future

●
Assure compliance with federal health center regulations during construction

●
Integrate the exterior design into the community standards

●
Be environmentally sustainable

GOALS

Form:

●
Replacement of the deteriorated major glulam beams supporting the first floor east and west

wings, north and south exterior walls.

●
Replacement of the failed EFIS siding with a long lasting durable system that will protect the

structure for the life of the building.

●
Replacement of the existing windows where the EFIS siding is replaced with modern energy

efficient windows that will provide improved occupant comfort as well as reduced energy costs.

●
Welcoming street presence.

Function:

●
New fiber cement panel siding will be easy to clean and maintain and is highly fire resistant,

providing additional building safety in the event of fire.

Sustainability:

●
Provide an energy efficient envelope that will reduce energy consumption and increase

occupant comfort.

●
1.5%  for Green Energy Technology

●
1.0% for Workforce Development through the Construction Diversity and Equity Fund (CDEF)

Art:

●
Participate in the Percent for Arts Program at 2% of construction costs per Ordinance No. 1117

Schedule:

●
Patient care services for Dental & Primary Care Clinics will be relocated to other locations during

construction.

Budget:

●
On-budget

COMMUNITY BENEFITS

Minority-Owned Business, Women-Owned Business, Service Disabled Veteran, Emerging Small Business

(MWSDVESB) Involvement: The County is seeking a high level of participation from MWSDVESB

businesses and organizations, and has identified an aspirational goal of 20% involvement of the value of

construction, and for 20% of the total design fee.

Apprentice Involvement: The County is seeking a high level of participation from women and minority

apprentices with an overall apprentice workforce goal of 20% in alignment with the County’s Workforce

Training and Hiring Program requirements.

Project Scope

The proposed project is the removal and replacement of the deteriorated major glulam beams

supporting the West Wings of the SEHC, along with replacement the failed EFIS exterior siding and

original building windows with new structurally sound glulams, fire resistant fiber cement panel siding

and energy efficient windows.

Design work has been initiated, but the programming process to redirect and / or relocate providers,

staff and patients is still being worked out.

Concept Design Narrative:

Cost efficiency:
​
 The goal is to realize best value and operational efficiency for the citizens of Multnomah

County.

Durability:
​
  Design decisions will be made with the goal of a minimum 50 years life expectancy for the

building exterior facade and glulam supports. This means that choices about the kinds of exterior

materials, hardware, and other important elements will be made in the context of maximizing longevity.

Finishes and materials will be selected for durability and ease of maintenance.

Functionality:
​
  The project’s functional goal is to replace the existing deteriorated glulams, provide a

new cost effective, long lasting building envelope that will support the buildings clinics into the future.

The project seeks to create a safe, wellness-supportive environment for guests and residents.

Sustainability:
​
  The project seeks to decrease the building's energy usage through an improved building

envelope and therefore help reduce the carbon footprint of the County moving forward.

Community integration:
​
   The project will be designed to provide a clean new facade that will

unobtrusively integrate into the neighborhood.

MWSDVESB Participation and Subcontracting Plan

The  competitively selected general contractor construction firm will work in conjunction with

Multnomah County to implement the County MWSDVESB subcontracting goals. The General Contractor

will work to  ensure that diversity goals for Multnomah County are met. The General Contractor will

create a plan  to meet MWSDVESB firm participation and Workforce Training Goals associated with

apprenticeship programs.

Preliminary Project Milestone Schedule

Date:

Activity:

May 2020

FAC-1 Presented to Board of County Commissioners

2nd  Quarter CY 2020

Complete Construction Documents

3rd   Quarter CY 2020

Permitting & Release of Construction Documents for Competitive bidding

3rd   Quarter CY 2020

Request Board Funding of Construction

4th   Quarter CY 2020

Begin Construction Preparation  : Long Lead Items ordered

2nd  Quarter  CY 2021

Begin on Site Construction @ the SEHC

4th   Quarter CY 2021

Construction Complete

Conceptual Cost Estimate:

The estimate for the project is conceptual in these early planning stages of a project, variations of

estimate components may be wide, and that there are essentially no design documents available to

develop take-off based construction estimates.

A conceptual estimate, when properly assembled, includes contingency factors to reflect that the level

of data upon which the estimate is based is limited. Costs are anticipated to increase somewhat as the

project design is developed and more detailed estimates are performed. As that occurs, portions of the

contingencies are applied to offset the cost increases, while estimate reliability also increases. When the

Design Development phase is completed, a comprehensive re-evaluation of project costs will be

developed with the first package of preliminary design drawings and specifications.  Accordingly, the

updated estimate will have an increased level of reliability. Further estimate reliability will occur as

drawings and specifications are completed.

For the past several months, the conceptual estimate has been assembled with the following methods

and assumptions:

●
The construction cost estimate has been compiled by using Schematic Drawings and preliminary

Design Drawings plans created by Carleton Hart Architects and ABHT Structural Engineering.

Materials and systems are assumed to remain as County Standard. The 1.5% Green Energy

Technology Program Costs are added. Contingencies are included to address the stage of the

project being conceptual in nature, escalation and other factors are included.

●
Project Soft Costs include permits, fees, professional services from consultants and vendors, 2%

for Art, 1.0 % Construction Diversity Equity Fund, escalation and a small contingency.

●
Other assumptions include the proposed schedule is maintained, and no significant events occur

that impact local economic factors.

Based on these factors, the results of the Conceptual Cost Estimate effort provides confidence that the

project should be delivered within a range of $5.1 million to $5.8 million

Project Budget Funding Sources:

The Board of County Commissioners set aside $6 million in General Fund Contingency  in the FY2020

Budget for this project.

FAC-1 Preliminary Planning Proposal and  Project Plan

PART C – NEXT STEPS

Following is a brief description of the recommended “Next Steps” to move the project forward.

Complete the Design Development & Drawings Initiate Construction

Development phase

The design development drawings are 90% complete.  The Construction Development Phase is the final

design phase required to produce a well-defined scope of work for the project, suitable for release for

competitive bidding and construction.

Estimate of Next Steps Activities

Activities required to complete schematic and design development phases, initiate early construction

activities and explore early work packages:

Architecture and Consultant Fees
$   300,000

Pre-Construction and Design / Build Services
$      70,000

Multnomah County, Consultants, Initial Permit Fees
$    360,000

Contingencies
$    150,000

Total
$    880,000

Schedule for Next Steps Activities

Design Development Phase:
January 2020 - March 2020

Complete Design Development Est., Brief Board:
March 2020   -    April 2020

Creates Bid Package, apply for City permits,

Competitive bidding and receive proposals:

May 2020   -    June  2020

Request Funding for Construction:
July  2020    -    August 2020

FAC-1 Preliminary Planning Proposal and  Project Plan

PART D – PROJECT MANAGEMENT

The Project Management Team (PMT)

The Project Management Team is being formed  to evaluate the project and to present the

recommendations contained within this FAC-1 Project Plan. The current PMT includes representation

from:

●
Multnomah County Facilities and Property Management

●
Multnomah County Health Department Administration

●
Multnomah County Public Health, Primary Care, Dental Services and Pharmacy Departments

●
Carleton Hart Architecture, Architect

●
ABHT Structural Engineering

The Project Management Team is responsible for the day-to-day detailed activities associated with the

project, but is a part of a larger group of entities engaged in the common efforts to deliver a successful

project to Multnomah County. The full organizational relationships are illustrated in the Org Chart.

Project Communication and Reporting

BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS (BCC)

The Board of County Commissioners is composed of the elected chair and four elected commissioners of

Multnomah County. The County is the Project owner by and through the Board.

Community Health Council (CHC)

The Community Health Council is the co-applicant governing board for the Community Health Center of

Multnomah County. This is a patient-majority board with oversight of all health clinic hours, policies,

services, and access. They assure that health center changes, including construction, follow HRSA

procedures and must approve changes to services.

EXECUTIVE STEERING COMMITTEE (ESC)

The Executive Steering Committee is composed of Board Member representatives and Department and

County Leadership. This team meets with Project Management Team Representatives to review the status

of the project and provide guidance on project issues and goals. It is expected that the Executive Steering

Committee, with the Project Manager, will meet regularly throughout project design and construction to

completion.

PROJECT EXECUTIVE TEAM (PET)

This team consists of Executive Leadership representatives from the agencies and companies directly

involved in the project. Its purpose is to provide executive level communication and guidance, and to

monitor the overall progress and performance of the PMT and other partners as needed. It will also

undertake and resolve issues that may arise related to public and business practice. The PET will meet

approximately quarterly.

PROJECT MANAGEMENT TEAM (PMT)

The Project Management Team is responsible for the day-to-day detailed activities associated with the

project. These activities will be guided by a Project Management Plan that is founded on principles of

developing and engaging a management Process that is inclusive, transparent and protective of the

County’s best interests.

The Project Management Team’s activities will be carefully monitored by the Owner Representative,

regular meetings will be held with minutes to follow recording activities, progress, resolution of issues,

identification of new issues, decisions required and status of the schedule and budget.

TECHNICAL WORKING GROUPS (TWGs)

The County will form specialized working groups composed of technical experts in specialized fields that

will advise the Project Management Team and the County on recommendations for specific issues. This

may include County staff from the Multnomah County Health Department, Facilities Division, IT, Finance

Department, and County Attorney. The technical working groups will meet as needed.