BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
RESOLUTION NO.  2023-064
Approving the Library Capital Bond Program Albina Library FAC -1 Construction Plan and
Authorizing the County Chair to Execute a Guaranteed Maximum Price Amendment.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
A. The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners (“Board”) previously adopted
Resolution 2020-057 on June 25, 2020, authorizing submission to the voters of the County a
measure election with the question of co ntracting general obligation bonded indebtedness in
the aggregate principal amount of not to exceed $387,000,000 to finance capital costs, and
repeal certain provisions of Resolution No. 2020-014.
B. On November 3, 2020, voters approved Measure 26-211 “Bonds to Expand, Renovate,
Construct Library Branches, Facilities; Increase Safety,” which authorized the County to issue
general obligation bonds to finance capital costs for updating, renovating, constructing, and
refreshing libraries across the County.
C. In June 2021, the County adopted the FY 2022 budget, including $387,000,000 for the
Library Capital Bond Program (LCBP).
D. In October 2021, through Resolution 2021 -079, the Board approved the FAC -1 LCBP
Plan, including Program and Project charter and scopes, e stimated project costs and
schedules, the funding strategy developed in cooperation with the County's Chief Financial
Officer, and design phases.
E. Pursuant to Administrative Procedure FAC -1 and the LCBP Plan, the enclosed Albina
Library Construction Plan (“Construction Plan”) sets forth a review of the project goals, design
effort to date, sustainability status, DEI (Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion) efforts, the project
budget, the project schedule, and next steps.
F. Lever Architects, Inc., partnered with N oll & Tam  Architects, was selected to perform
design services. Project design is now complete and in alignment with programmatic and
regulatory requirements.
G. Andersen Construction Company (Andersen) was selected as Construction
Management/General Contractor (CM/GC) to perform pre -construction services and to
negotiate a guaranteed maximum price for construction services, and, if approved by the
Board, execute an amendment to the CM/GC Contract authorizing Andersen to proceed with
construction of the Project at that price (“GMP Amendment”).
H. In December 2022, the Project received approval from Portland Bureau of
Developmental Services for a Type III Historic Resource Review as Case Number File 22 -
183116 LU. This Land Use Decision was recorded on January 10, 2023.
I. The Project budget totals $55,314,591 Million, including budget adjustments for
broadband support, collections, specialty items, and market escalation. The negotiated
guaranteed maximum price for construction services is $36,130,551.
J. The Project Team recommends Board approval of the Construction Plan and the GMP
Amendment.
K. Approval of the Construction Plan and GMP Amendment is in the best interests of
Multnomah County.
Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves:
1. The Construction Plan is approved and the Project Team is authorized to proceed with
the next steps in the construction phase development of the LCBP Albina Library.
2. The County Chair is authorized to execute a GMP Amendment for the LCBP Al bina
Library, together with any amendments or any other ancillary instruments, provided that further
Board approval shall be obtained with respect to any modification or amendment that results
in a material increase in the obligations of the County or a material decrease in the benefits to
the County under the Guaranteed Maximum Price Amendment.
ADOPTED this 22nd day of June, 2023.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
SUBMITTED BY:  Tracey Massey, Director, Department of County Assets and CIO