BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTYCOMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
PROCLAMATION NO. 2023-025
Proclaiming the Month of April 2023 as Child Abuse Prevention Mont h in Multnomah
County, Oregon.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
A. Child abuse and neglect is a serious public health and safety problem that impacts
all of our community, and finding solutions requires input and action from everyone.
B. According to the most recently published Oregon Department of Human Services
Child Welfare Data Book, there were 78,775 reports of child abuse and neglect in
Oregon in 2021.  In Multnomah County, there were 12,085 reports of abuse and
neglect. The leading family stress factor when child abuse was present  was
substance abuse by a parent/caregiver. The next most common stress factor was
domestic violence.
C. Child abuse and neglect has long -term, physical, psychological, emotional and
social effects that have lasting consequences for survivors of abuse into adulthood.
D. Due to the ongoing global pandemic over the past three years, the challenges to
protecting children continue to be more acutely felt.
E. All of us in Multnomah County must work together to increase awareness about
child abuse and contribute to promote the social and emotional well -being of
children and families in a safe, stable, nurturing environment.
F. We must all recognize the signs of child maltreatment and take appropriate steps
to safeguard children by reporting concerns and connecting families with the help
they may need.
G. Effective child abuse prevention  and intervention efforts succeed because of
coordinated partnerships between government, child welfare, health, schools, law
enforcement and community organizations.
H. That resource and adoptive parents, child protective workers, fai th leaders,
community mentors,  medicine, mental health, teachers, and law enforcement
officials, all have a role in protecting and supporting children who have been
tragically abused or neglected.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
1. The Month of April 2023 as Child Abuse Prevention Month in Multnomah County.
2. The Board of County Commissioners call upon our community to support the effort
to prevent child abuse, protect children and strengthen families.
ADOPTED this 27th day of April, 2023.
SUBMITTED JOINTLY BY: Multnomah County Multidisciplinary Child Abuse Team
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By:
      Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney