BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
ORDINANCE NO. 1303
Amending Commissioner District Boundaries in Compliance with Multnomah County Home Rule
Charter.
(Language stricken is deleted; underlined language is new.)
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a.  County Charter Section 3.15 requires that the Auditor determine by August 1 after the release
of each federal decennial census the population distribution among the commissioner
districts specified by the Charter.
b. On March 8, 2021, the Auditor notified the Board of County Commissio ners that, due to
the COVID -19 pandemic, the U.S. Census Bureau would be delayed in releasing the
census data necessary for the Auditor to complete the tasks required under County
Charter Section 3.15.  The Auditor notified the Board that the U.S. Census Bureau planned
to release the census data by September 30, 2021, and that the Auditor expected to
complete her work by February 28, 2022.
c. The Auditor has made the required determination and reported it to the Board within the
timeline identified in the March 8, 2021 notice.  In accordance with the Charter, the Auditor
has prepared and presented to the Board a plan to modify the boundaries of the
commissioner districts to provide approximately equal population distribution while
generally retaining the geographical characteristics of districts as nearly as possible.
d. As required by the Charter, the Board adopts this ordinance to alter the boundaries of the
commissioner districts to provide for approximately equal population distribution and retain
the general geographical characteristics of the districts established by the Charter as
nearly as possible.
Multnomah County Ordains as Follows:
Section 1. The commissioner districts set forth in the Multnomah County Home Rule
Charter, Section 3.10, are amended to read as follows:
CHAPTER III.     GOVERNING BODY
3.10. Membership
The governing body shall be a board of five county commissioners.  The Chair of the Board
shall be elected from the county at large.  Four county commissioners shall be elected from
districts as herein established and described.
(1) Position No. 1 shall be occupied by that commissioner elected from or
appointed to the West District, the boundaries of which are as follows:
Bounded on the north by Columbia County; bounded on the east as follows:
Washington State line at the Columbia River, south to Willamette River, south on
the Willamette River to the Steel Bridge, southeast along the Union Pacific
Railroad to Interstate 84, east on Interstate 84 to 33rd Avenue, south on 33rd
Avenue becoming 32nd Avenue to Ankeny Street, east on Ankeny Street to 33rd
Avenue, south on 33rd Avenue to Stark Street, west on Stark Street to 28th
Avenue, south on 28th Avenue to Hawthorne Boulevard, east on Hawthorne
Boulevard to Cesar Chavez Boulevard, south on Cesar Chavez Boulevard to its
extension to the Portland Traction R.R. right-of-way (40 Mile Loop Trail),
southeast on the Portland Traction R.R. right-of-way to the intersection of
Johnson Creek Boulevard, then south to the Clackamas County line; and
bounded on the west by Washington County.

(2)          Position No. 2 shall be occupied by that commissioner elected from or
appointed to the North District, the boundaries of which are as follows:

Bounded on the north by the Washington State line at the Columbia River;
bounded on the east and south as follows: beginning at the Washington State
line at the Columbia River at a point west of Government Island (coinciding with
the northwestern boundary of consensus tract 102), southeast along the south
channel of the Columbia River to the Gresham City Line, southwest along the
Gresham City Line to Interstate 84 west along Interstate 84 and following the
Union Pacific Railroad to the Willamette River at the Steel Bridge; bounded on
the west by the Willamette River.

(3)          Position No. 3 shall be occupied by that commissioner elected from or
appointed to the Central District, the boundaries of which are as follows:

Bounded on the north and east as follows: beginning at the intersection of 33rd
Avenue and Interstate 84, east along Interstate 84 to 148th Avenue, south on
148th Avenue to Powell Boulevard, west on Powell Boulevard to 130th Avenue,
south on 130th Avenue to Holgate Boulevard, west on Holgate Boulevard to 128th
Avenue, south on 128th Avenue to Schiller Street, west on Schiller Street to 122nd
Avenue, south on 122nd Avenue to Foster Road, east on Foster Road to 131st
Avenue, south on 131st Avenue to Claybourne Street, east on Claybourne Street
to 134th Avenue, south on 134th Avenue to Deardorff Road, south on Deardorff
Road to Clackamas County line; bounded on the south by Clackamas County;
bounded on the west as follows: beginning at the intersection of Johnson Creek
Boulevard and the Clackamas County line, north to the intersection of Johnson
Creek Boulevard and the Portland Traction R.R. right-of-way (40 Mile Loop Trail),
northwest along the Portland Traction R.R. right-of-way to the extension of Cesar
Chavez Boulevard, continuing north on Cesar Chavez Boulevard to Hawthorne
Boulevard, west on Hawthorne Boulevard to 28th Avenue, north on 28th Avenue
to Stark Street, east on Stark Street to 33rd Avenue, north on 33rd Avenue to
Ankeny Street, east on Ankeny Street to 32nd Avenue, north on 32nd Avenue
becoming 33rd Avenue, north on 33rd Avenue to Interstate 84.

(4)          Position No. 4 shall be occupied by that commissioner elected from or
appointed to the East District, the boundaries of which are as follows:

Bounded on the north at the Washington State line at the Columbia River; bounded
on the east by Hood River County; bounded on the south by Clackamas County;
and bounded on the west as follows: beginning at the intersection of the
Clackamas County Line and Deardorff Road, north  on Deardorff Road to 134 th
Avenue, north on 134 th Avenue to Claybourne Street, west on Claybourne Street
to 131st Avenue, north on 131 st Avenue to Foster Road, west on Foster Road to
122nd Avenue, north on 122nd Avenue to Schiller Street, east on Schiller  Street to
128th Avenue, north on 128 th Avenue to Holgate Boulevard, east on Holgate
Boulevard to 130 th Avenue, north on 130 th Avenue to Powell Boulevard, east on
Powell Boulevard to 148 th Avenue, north on 148 th Avenue to Interstate 84, east
along Interstate 84 the Gresham City Line, north/northeast along the Gresham City
Line to south channel of the Columbia River, northwest along the south channel of
the Columbia River to the Washington State line at a point west of Government
Island.
FIRST READING: December 16, 2021
SECOND READING AND ADOPTION: January 6, 2022
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS FOR
MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Deborah Kafoury, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY FOR
MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By
 Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney