BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
RESOLUTION NO. 2022-052
Protecting Access to Reproductive Freedoms and Reproductive Health.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. This is a critical moment for reproductive rights and justice in the United States.
Before the end of its term in June, 2022, the U.S. Supreme Court is scheduled to
issue its ruling in Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization, the most
consequential abortion rights case in generations. The Court may be on the
verge of overturningRoe v. Wade, decimating the right to abortion and leaving
millions struggling to access the essential health care they need.
b. A ruling to weaken or overturn Roe could take away a constitutional right that
people have relied on for generations. It would also fundamentally undermine the
rule of law, gender equality, and potentially, other constitutional rights, and lead to
instability and uncertainty across the country.
c. Legal abortions in the United States, whether in the form of medication,
aspiration, dilation & evacuation, or induction, are safe procedures. A 2018
consensus study report from the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering &
Medicine found that “the clinical evidence clearly shows that legal abortions in
the United States [...] are safe and effective.”
d. Reliance on the right to abortion has been essential to advancing gender equality
in the United States. Access to abortion has enabled generations of women and
others to pursue personal, educational, and employment opportunities and life
goals and helped counter the long history of injustice that has limited women’s
legal, social, and economic progress. Taking away that right would reverse this
critical progress and limit women’s ability to participate fully and equally in
society.
e. The restriction on abortion also expands beyond gender oppression as a function
of racism, ableism, heterosexism, and economic injustice. As a result, Black,
Indigenous, and People of Color (BIPOC), people with disabilities, people in rural
areas, young people, immigrants, LGBTQ+ people, and people experiencing
poverty are disproportionately affected by increasing the inaccessibility of
reproductive health care.
f. Regardless of legal status, pregnant people will seek reproductive health care
services, including abortion. Restricting access to legal abortion does not reduce
abortion, it merely makes it unsafe. In countries where abortion is legally
restricted, unsafe abortion is a leading cause of preventable maternal mortality
and morbidity. Access to legal, regulated abortion services ensures the safety of
the patient and prevents the need to seek dangerous alternatives.
g. Access to comprehensive reproductive health care, including safe, affordable,
and legal abortion, is critical to promoting better maternal and infant health
outcomes. Delays, costs, and complications that result from barriers to abortion
access can cause poor health, including maternal morbidity and mortality.
Abortion is a safe and common procedure performed in the US, with 6 out of 10
unintended pregnancies ending in induced abortion. Abortion restrictions
perpetuate disparities in reproductive and maternal health in the US as people of
color, and those who are low-income are disproportionately effected.
h. Over half of the states in the nation are poised to ban abortion ifRoe v. Wadeis
overturned. This would leave millions without access to essential healthcare.
i. If Roe is weakend or overturned, abortion will remain legal in Oregon because
state law includes an express statutory protection for abortion and Oregon has
enacted additional protections to expand reproductive freedoms.
a. ORS 659.880 prohibits a public body from depriving a consenting
individual of the choice of terminating the individual’s pregnancy.
b. The Oregon Constitution includes an equal rights amendment (ERA )that
should also protect the right to an abortion. The ERA states: “Equality of
rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the State of
Oregon or by any political subdivision in this state on account of sex.” OR.
CONST. ART. I, §46 (added by voter initiative Measure 89,approved Nov.
4, 2014, eff. Dec. 4, 2014).
c. Provides public funding for abortion and requires private insurance
coverage of abortion. OR. ADMIN. R. 410-130-0562, and OR. REV. STAT.
§ 743A.067(2)(g).
d. In 2022, the Oregon legislature appropriated $15 million to the
Reproductive Health Equity Fund to provide immediate support, including
travel expenses and lodging, for people seeking abortions in Oregon. H.B.
5202, 81st Gen. Assemb., Reg. Sess. (Or. 2022).
e. The state protects clinic safety and access by prohibiting the obstruction of
health-care facilities. ORS 164.365(1)(a)(F).
j. Although there is no indication that Oregon’s statutory and legal reproductive
protections are at risk of being curtailed or otherwise restricted, the Board of
County Commissioners stands ready to take legislative action to preserve
reproductive freedoms in Multnomah County should the need arise.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves:
1. A commitment to advancing reproductive freedom and access to reproductive
health.
2. If reproductive freedoms are weakened or overturned at the federal and state
level, the Board of County Commissioners will consider immediate legislative
action to protect the freedom for individuals to make decisions about their
reproductive health.
3. To encourage the Chair to direct County staff to expand and support policies,
programming, and educational materials to assure that members of the
community are supported and informed about their reproductive freedoms.
ADOPTED this 9th day of June, 2022.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
________________________________
Deborah Kafoury, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By
Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney
SUBMITTED BY: Jessica Vega Pederson, District 3 Commissioner, Susheela Jayapal,
District 2 Commissioner