Page 1 of 3 - Amending Multnomah County’s Comprehensive Plan, Zoning Map, and
Zoning Code, to Incorporate Amendments to the City of Portland’s
Comprehensive Plan, Comprehensive Plan Map, Zoning Map, and Zoning
Code (Title 33) to Adopt the Lower Southeast Rising Area Plan
Amendments; to Adopt the Regulatory Improvement Code Amendment
Package 10; and Amending the County’s Zoning Code to Incorporate
Amendments to the City of Portland’s Title 33 to Update Land Division
Regulations and Related Code Provisions and Declaring an Emergency.
BEF
ORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
ORDINANCE NO.
Am
ending Multnomah County’s Comprehensive Plan, Zoning Map, and Zoning Code, to
Incorporate Amendments to the City of Portland’s Comprehensive Plan, Comprehensive
Plan Map, Zoning Map, and Zoning Code (Title 33) to Adopt the Lower Southeast Rising
Area Plan  Amendments; to Adopt the Regulatory Improvement Code Amendment
Package 10; and Amending the County’s Zoning Code to Incorporate Amendments to the
City of Portland’s Title 33 to Update Land Division Regulations and Related Code
Provisions and Declaring an Emergency.
The M
ultnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. Pur
suant to an intergovernmental agreement executed in 2002 (the “IGA”), the City
of Portland, Oregon ( “City”), provides, with certain exceptions, land use planning
services for those areas of unincorporated Multnomah County located within the
City’s Urban Services Boundary (the “Unincorporated Urban Areas”).
b. Bec
ause the County retains legislative authority over the Unincorporated Urban
Areas, the County assumed an obligation in the IGA to amend County land use
policies and regulations  as they relate to the Unincorporated Urban Areas  to
incorporate applicable City land use policies and regulations, and all subsequent
amendments thereto.
c. Thr
ough Ordinance No. 191698 (adopted by the Portland City Council on May 2,
2024), the Portland City Council adopted the  Lower Southeast Rising Area Plan
(LSRAP) amendments. The amendments apply  Comprehensive Plan Map
designations, base zones and zoning overlays within the plan area.
d. Thr
ough Ordinance No. 191779 (adopted by the Portland City Council on June 13,
2024), the Regulatory Improvement Code Amendment Packages (RICAP) are an
ongoing series of minor technical  updates, clarifications, and refinements to
Portland’s zoning regulations. RICAP 10 amendments are grouped into three
themes: housing production, economic development, and regulatory reduction.
e. Thr
ough Ordinance No. 191848 (adopted by the Portland City Council on July 31,
2024), amendments to Portland’s Land Division Code are proposed in order to
encourage new housing development, streamline and speed up the residential
land division review process, and reduce regulatory barriers.
Z
oning Code, to Incorporate Amendments to the City of Portland’s
Comprehensive Plan, Comprehensive Plan Map, Zoning Map, and Zoning
Code (Title 33) to Adopt the Lower Southeast Rising Area Plan
Amendments; to Adopt the Regulatory Improvement Code Amendment
Package 10; and Amending the County’s Zoning Code to Incorporate
Amendments to the City of Portland’s Title 33 to Update Land Division
Regulations and Related Code Provisions and Declaring an Emergency.
f. Th
e City has requested that the County amend the County’s Comprehensive Plan,
Zoning Map, and Zoning Code to incorporate the changes implemented in City
Ordinance numbers 191698, 191779, and 191848.
g. P
ursuant to State and City notice requirements, as well as the terms of the IGA,
the City provided public notice of City Ordinance numbers numbers 191698,
191779, and 191848. The City provided an opportunity for the public to be heard
at public hearings , culminating with hearings before the City’s Planning
Commission and the City Council.
M
ultnomah County Ordains as Follows:
Section 1. The County’s Comprehensive Plan, Zoning Map and Zoning Code are
amended to incorporate the following:
Exhibit No. Description County Effective Date
1 Adopt the Comprehensive Plan Map
designations, new zones, overlay zones and
associated regulations to the Lower
Southeast Rising Area Plan (LSRAP)
(Portland City Ordinance 191698)
October 1, 2024
2 Adopt the Regulatory Improvement Code
Amendment Package (RICAP 10) to foster
housing production, economic development,
and regulatory reduction. (Portland City
Ordinance 191779)
October 1, 2024
3 Amend the Land Division Code are proposed
in order to encourage new housing
development, streamline and speed up the
residential land division review process, and
reduce regulatory barriers. (Portland City
Ordinance 191848)
October 1, 2024
Section 2. In accordance with ORS 215.427(3), the changes resulting from  Section 1
of this ordinance shall not apply to any decision on an application  submitted before the
applicable effective dates of this ordinance and that is made complete prior to the
applicable effective dates of this ordinance or within 180 days of the initial submission of
the application.
Page 2 of 3 - Amending Multnomah County’s Comprehensive Plan, Zoning Map, and
Zoni
ng Code, to Incorporate Amendments to the City of Portland’s
Comprehensive Plan, Comprehensive Plan Map, Zoning Map, and Zoning
Code (Title 33) to Adopt the Lower Southeast Rising Area Plan
Amendments; to Adopt the Regulatory Improvement Code Amendment
Package 10; and Amending the County’s Zoning Code to Incorporate
Amendments to the City of Portland’s Title 33 to Update Land Division
Regulations and Related Code Provisions and Declaring an Emergency.
Section 3. In accordance with ORS 92.040(2), for any subdivisions for which the initial
application is submitted before the applicable effective dates of this ordinance,  the
subdivision application and any subsequent application for construction shall be governed
by the County's land use regulations in effect as of the date the subdivision application is
first submitted.
Section 4. Any future amendments to the legislative matters listed in Section 1 above
are exempt from the requirements of MCC 39.1210. The Board acknowledges, authorizes
and agrees that the Portland Planning and Sustainability Commission will act instead of
the Multnomah County Planning Commission for the Unincorporated Urban Areas  by
employing the City's  own legislative procedures, including providing notice to, and
facilitating participation from , property owners within Unincorporated Urban Areas . The
Board will consider the recommendations of the Portland Planning and Sustainability
Commission and City Council when legislative land use matters for the Unincorporated
Urban Areas come before the Board for action.
Section 5. This ordinance being necessary for the health, safety, and general welfare
of the people of Multnomah County, an emergency is declared and adoption of the
amendments in City Ordinance Numbers  191698, 191779, and 191848, will take effect
on October 1, 2024 pursuant to Section 5.50 of the Multnomah County Home Rule
Charter.
FIRST READING AND ADOPTION: August 22, 2024
BO
ARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Jes sica Vega Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
SUBMITTED BY: Margi Bradway, Director, Department of Community Services.
Page 3 of 3 - Amending Multnomah County’s Comprehensive Plan, Zoning Map, and