Page 1 of 3 - Amending MCC Chapter 12 – Business Income Tax
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
ORDINANCE NO. 1299
Amending MCC Chapter 12 – Business Income Tax
(Language stricken is deleted; double underlined language is new.)
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
1. Under Multnomah County Code Chapter 12, the County collects a “Business Income Tax”
(BIT) on a portion of a business’  income that results from conducting business in
Multnomah County.
2. The City of Portland also collects a “Business License Tax” (BLT) tax on a portion of a
business’ income that results from conducting business in the City of Portland.  The City
BLT is administered through City Code Chapter 7.02.
3. By agreement between the City and the County, the City of Portland collects and
administers the County BIT. To simplify the administration of the two taxes and to align
the County’s BIT code with the City BLT  code, the County  is proposing amending the
County BIT for tax  years beginning January  1, 2021. The proposed amendment will
remove reference to “joint ventures/tenants -in-common,” add language clarifying the
intent to index the owner’s compensation deduction beginning on or after January 1,
2021, and to update a citation to an Oregon Administrative Rule (OAR) for frivolous filing.
4. In addition, and periodically, there is a need to amend Multnomah County Code  (MCC)
to make technical corrections to address typos, ambiguity, and inconsistent terms.
5. Having identified the above described issues raised by provisions in MCC Chapter 12,
the Division of Finance and Risk Management of the Department of County Management
recommends the adoption o f this ordinance to the Board of County Commissioners to
amend certain portions of MCC Chapter 12.
6. The County now wishes to amend the below described portions of MCC §§ 12.100 to
12.840.
Multnomah County Ordains as Follows:
Section 1. MCC § 12.100 is amended as follows:
§ 12.100 – DEFINITIONS.
INCOME. The net income arising from any business, as re-portable to the state of Oregon (State)
for personal income, corporation excise, or income tax purposes, before any allocation or
apportionment for operation out of state, or deduction for a net operating loss carry -forward or
carry-back.
Page 2 of 3 - Amending MCC Chapter 12 – Business Income Tax

(A) Partnerships, S corporations, limited liability companies, limited liability partnerships,
family limited partnerships, estates, and trusts and joint ventures (including tenants -in-
common arrangements) are liable for the business tax and not the individual  partners,
shareholders, members, beneficiaries or owners. The income of these entities must
include all income received by the entity including ordinary income, interest and dividend
income, income from sales of business assets and other income attributable to the entity.
For income purposes, a limited liability company is deemed to be the tax entity that
includes the income of the limited liability company in its federal tax return if the limited
liability company will be disregarded as a separate tax entity.

PERSON. Includes, but is not limited to an individual, a natural person, proprietorship,
partnership, limited partnership, family limited partnerships, joint venture (including tenants -in-
common arrangements), association, cooperative, trust, estate , corporation, personal holding
company, limited liability company, limited liability partnership or any other form of organization
for doing business.

Section 2. MCC § 12.600 is amended as follows:

§ 12.600 – INCOME DETERMINATIONS.

(A) (6) For tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2020, the owners compensation
deduction cannot exceed $127,000 per owner as defined in subsection (B), (C), and
(D), below. For tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2021, the owners
compensation deduction will be indexed as described in subsection (A)(1) above.

(I) (1) When the operations of the taxfiler from doing business both within and without the
county result in a net operating loss, such loss will be apportioned in the same manner
as the net income under § 12.600. However, in no case may A net operating loss be
carried forward from any tax year dur ing which the taxfiler conducted no business
within the county or the taxfiler was otherwise exempt from payment of the Business
Income Tax. unless specifically provided for by administrative rule or written policy.

Section 3. MCC § 12.840 is amended as follows:

§ 12.840 – FRIVOLOUS FILING.

A $500.00 penalty will be assessed if a taxfiler takes a "frivolous position" in respect to preparing
the taxfiler’s  tax return. A tax return is considered frivolous if a taxfiler does not provide
information on which the substantial correctness of the self-assessment may be judged or if the
tax return contains information that on its face indicates that the self-assessment is substantially
incorrect. Examples of “frivolous positions” as provided in Oregon Administrative Rule 150-
316.992(5) 150-316-0652 are adopted by direct re ference. (Ord. 1142, Renum&Amd12.845,
07/16/2009; Ord. 1104, Add, 12/20/2007)

Page 3 of 3 - Amending MCC Chapter 12 – Business Income Tax
FIRST READING:  7/22/21
SECOND READING AND ADOPTION: 8/26/21
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Deborah Kafoury, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON

SUBMITTED BY:  Eric Arellano, CFO