BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY , OREGON
RESOLUTION NO.
Approving the Library Capital Bond Program North Portland Library FAC-1 Construction Plan
and Authorizing the County Chair to Execute a Guaranteed Maximum Price Amendment.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
A. The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners (“Board”) previously adopted
Resolution 2020-057 on June 25, 2020, authorizing submission to the voters of the County a
measure election with the question of contracting general obligation bonded indebtedness in
the aggregate principal amount of not to exceed $387,000,000 to finance capital costs, and
repeal certain provisions of Resolution No. 2020-014.
B. On November 3, 2020, voters approved Measure 26-211 “Bonds to Expand, Renovate,
Construct Library Branches, Facilities; Increase Safety,” which authorized the County to issue
general obligation bonds to finance capital costs for updating, renovating, constructing, and
refreshing libraries across the County.
C. In June 2021, the County adopted the FY 2022 budget, including $387,000,000 for the
LCBP .
D. In October 2021, through Resolution 2021-079, the Board approved the FAC-1 LCBP
Plan, including Program and Project charter and scopes, estimated project costs and
schedules, the funding strategy developed in cooperation with the County's Chief Financial
Officer, and design phases.
E. Pursuant to Administrative Procedure FAC-1 and the LCBP Plan, the enclosed North
Portland Library Construction Plan (“Construction Plan”) sets forth a review of the project
goals, design effort to date, sustainability status, DEI (Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion) efforts,
the project budget, the project schedule, and next steps.
F . Lever Architecture, who partnered with Noll & T am Architects, was selected to perform
design services. Project design is now complete and in alignment with programmatic and
regulatory requirements.
G. Andersen Construction Company (Andersen) was selected as Construction
Management/General Contractor (CM/GC) to perform pre-construction services and to
negotiate a guaranteed maximum price for construction services, and, if approved by the
Board, execute an amendment to the CM/GC Contract authorizing Andersen to proceed with
construction of the Project at that price (“GMP Amendment”).
H. In December 2022, the Project received approval from Portland Bureau of
Developmental Services for a Type II Historic Resource Review as Case Number File
2022-196672-000-00-LU. The Land Use Decision was recorded against the property on
February 21, 2023.
2023-033
I. The Project budget totals $12.8 million, including budget adjustments for site security
during construction, broadband support, collections, specialty items, and market escalation.
The negotiated guaranteed maximum price for construction services is $8,045,659.
J. The Project T eam recommends Board approval of the Construction Plan and the GMP
Amendment.
K. Approval of the Construction Plan and GMP Amendment is in the best interests of
Multnomah County.
Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves:
1. The Construction Plan is approved and the Project T eam is authorized to proceed with
the next steps in the construction phase development of the LCBP North Portland Library.
2. The County Chair is authorized to execute a GMP Amendment for the LCBP North
Portland Library, together with any amendments or any other ancillary instruments, provided
that further Board approval shall be obtained with respect to any modification or amendment
that results in a material increase in the obligations of the County or a material decrease in
the benefits to the County under the Guaranteed Maximum Price Amendment.
ADOPTED this 18th day of May, 2023.
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY , OREGON
SUBMITTED BY: Tracey Massey, Director, Department of County Assets and CIO
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY , OREGON
Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair