BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON

RESOLUTION NO.  2024-068

Approving the Library Capital Bond Program (LCBP) Northwest Library Project Plan to Proceed
with Construction per Administrative Procedure FAC -1 and Authorizing the County Chair to
Execute a Guaranteed Maximum Price (GMP) Amendment.

The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:

a. The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners (“Board”) previously adopted
Resolution 2020 -057 on June 25, 2020, authorizing submission to the voters of the
County a measure election with the question of contracting general obligation bonded
indebtedness in the an aggregate principal amount of not to exceed $387,000,000 to
finance capital costs, and repealing certain provisions of Resolution No. 2020-014.

b. On November 3, 2020, voters approved Measure 26-211 “Bonds to Expand, Renovate,
Construct Library Branches, Facilities; Increase Safety,” which authorized the County to
issue general obligation bonds to finance capital costs for updating, renovating,
constructing, and refreshing libraries across the county.

c. In June 2021, the County adopted the FY22 budget, including $387,000,000 for the
Library Capital Bond Program (LCBP).

d. In October 2021, through Resolution 2021 -079, the Board approved the FAC-1 Library
Capital Bond Program Plan (“Program Plan”), including Program and Project charter
and scopes, estimated project costs and schedules, the funding strategy developed in
cooperation with the County's Chief Financial Officer, and design phases. In relevant
part, the Program Plan includes construction of a new library branch referred to at this
time as the Northwest Library (“Project”).

e. Pursuant to Administrative Procedure FAC-1 and the Program Plan, the enclosed FAC-
1 Northwest Library Project Plan sets forth a review of Project goals, design effort to
date, sustainability status, DEI (Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion) efforts, project b udget,
project schedule, and next steps (“Project Plan”).
f. Pursuant to the Program Plan, in November 2021, Multnomah County purchased the
building and land located at 2030 NW Pettygrove, Portland, Oregon, to be used for the
Northwest Library location.
g. Hennebery Eddy Architects, Inc. was selected to perform design services. Project
design is now complete and in alignment with programmatic and regulatory
requirements.
h. Howard S. Wright, a Balfour Beatty company, was selected as Construction
Management/General Contractor (CM/GC) to perform pre -construction services and to
negotiate a guaranteed maximum price for construction services, and, if approved by
the Board, execute an amendment to the CM/GC Contract authorizing Howard S. Wright
to proceed with construction of the Project at that price (“GMP Amendment”).
i. In April 2024, the Project received approval from Portland Bureau of Development
Services for a Type II Decision as Case Number File LU 24-001815 AD. The Land Use
Decision was recorded against the property under filing 2024-024302.
j. The Project budget totals $21.0 Million, including budget adjustments for the site
acquisition, broadband support, collections, specialty items, site specific conditions, and
market escalation. The negotiated guaranteed maximum price for construction services
is $8,214,658.
k. The Project Team recommends Board approval of the Project Plan and the GMP
Amendment.
l. Approval of the Project Plan and the GMP Amendment is in the best interests of
Multnomah County.
Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves:
1. The Project Plan is approved and the Project Team is authorized to proceed with
construction of the Project in accordance with the Project Plan.
2. The County Chair is authorized to execute the GMP Amendment for the LCBP
Northwest Library Project, together with any amendments or any other ancillary
instruments, provided that further Board approval shall be obtained with respect to any
modification or amendment that results in a material increase in the obligations of the
County or a material decrease in the benefits to the County under the Guaranteed
Maximum Price Amendment.
ADOPTED this 15th day of August, 2024.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
SUBMITTED BY:  Tracey Massey, Director, Department of County Assets.