BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
PROCLAMATION NO. 2022-039
Proclaiming May 1 through May 7, 2022 as Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women,
Girls and Relatives Week of Awareness.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
A. Multnomah County recognizes that Multnomah County rests on the homelands
and villages of the Indigenous Tribal nations. We acknowledge the genocide,
forced removal, and systemic erasure of Indigenous peoples.
B. Multnomah County believes it is critical to acknowledge the connection between
colonialism and the use of colonial violence.
C. Violence against women is one of many forms of colonial violence that continues
to harm Indigenous communities today and is an issue that impacts our entire
community.
D. Native American women, girls and two spirit peoples face the highest rates of life
threatening, or life ending violence per capita out of any other race and are often
unprotected by the American legal system as tribes hold a unique, sovereign
status.
E. Indigenous women, girls and other relatives are often unaccounted for in colonial
law enforcement data systems and there is no database specific to tracking this
crisis.
F. Indigenous women, girls and other relatives are also often misidentified when
coming into contact with law enforcement or other programs, resulting in a lack of
cross-jurisdictional support services being offered to victims from potential law
enforcement, Tribal and community services.
G. Failing to adequately respond to this crisis through the use of data and
coordination across jurisdictions is a continued form of genocide and erasure of
Indigenous peoples in this country and action must be taken urgently to correct
these systems.
H. Multnomah County was encouraged to see two critical acts passed by Congress
in 2020 to strengthen the federal government’s response to the missing and
murdered indigenous women, girls, and relatives crisis: Savannah’s Act and the
Not Invisible Act. These bills will support improvement in reporting databases,
communication between jurisdictions and law enforcement agencies, and
increased intergovernmental coordination on approaches to address the crisis.
I. However, Multnomah County recognizes the ongoing need to focus resources
across the federal, state and local levels to address violence against Indigenous
relatives, and stands in solidarity with other governmental jurisdictions,
organizations, and Urban Native and Tribal communities in building awareness
about this crisis.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
May 1 through May 7, 2022 as Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women, Girls and
Relatives Week of Awareness in Multnomah County, Oregon.
ADOPTED this 5th day of May, 2022.
     Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Deborah Kafoury, Chair
REVIEWED:
JE
NNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By