BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
PROCLAMATION NO. 2023-059
Proclaiming June 2023 as Immigrant Heritage Month in Multnomah County, Oregon.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
A. Generations of immigrants from all corners of the globe have been essential to
this country’s economic and cultural strength and resilience. Whether they
arrived centuries ago or more recently, immigrants have helped build our
infrastructure, fuel our innovation, and create our prosperity.
B. Here in Multnomah County, we have the privilege of being home to over 111,000
immigrants from more than 113 countries. The top ten countries of origin of
immigrants in Multnomah County are Mexico, Vietnam, China, Ukraine, Canada,
Philippines, United Kingdom, Russia, Korea and Ethiopia.
C. Immigrants work and serve in all sectors of our economy: they help grow our
food, take care of our children and elders, provide health care, start and run
businesses, and employ hundreds of thousands of Oregonians.
D. Immigrants enrich Multnomah County with their traditions, their arts and culture,
their foods, and their global perspective. We honor the diversity of our immigrant
communities, recognizing that each of their journeys to the United States has
been distinct, as has their experience once here; and that their diversity
strengthens the fabric of our society.
E. During the COVID pandemic, immigrants have served on the front lines -- as
health care workers, farm workers, grocers, teachers, and other essential
workers. Because of the systemic racism that creates disparities in employment,
education, housing, and health outcomes, many immigrant communities have
also been disproportionately affected both by the virus itself and by its economic
impacts. Multnomah County will continue to provide the systems and support our
immigrant communities need in order to recover and thrive.
F. Immigrant Heritage Month gives Multnomah County the opportunity to honor all
of our diverse immigrant communities and their unique stories; to recognize their
enduring contributions; and to commit to implementing the policies, programs,
and practices that will ensure that they will thrive, for generations to come.
G. Multnomah County will continue to be a sanctuary jurisdiction, open and
welcoming to all, and serving all, regardless of documentation or immigration
status.
H. Our commitment includes recognizing the diversity of experience of immigrant
communities in Multnomah County, and working to implement best practices for
language access, data disaggregation, and civic engagement.
I. Multnomah County welcomes and supports immigrant communities from all over
the world as vital members of our community. The county is committed to
working in partnership with our employees, community members, and immigrant-
serving organizations to enhance Multnomah County as a place for all to develop
and grow in safety, trust and belonging.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
The month of June 2023 as Immigrant Heritage Month celebrating all residents of
Multnomah County who identify as an immigrant.
ADOPTED this 22nd day of June, 2023.
SUBMITTED BY:
Commissioner Susheela Jayapal
Commissioner Lori Stegmann
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY , OREGON
Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By
 Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney