BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
PROCLAMATION NO. 2022-077
Proclaiming August 7th-13th, 2022 as National Health Center Week in Multnomah County,
Oregon.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. For over 50 years, Community Health Centers have provided high -quality, affordable,
comprehensive primary and preventive health care in our nation’s underserved communities,
delivering value to, and having a significant impact on America’s health care system.
b. Community Health Centers are hubs for innovation and integrate medical, dental, and
behavioral health care services into a single “health home” and consistently yield strong patient
outcomes.
c. Community Health Centers are a critical element of the health system, serving both rural
and urban communities, and often providing the onl y accessible and dependable source of
primary care in their communities. Community Health Centers also play a critical role in reducing
racial and ethnic, geographic, socioeconomic, and other health disparities in
the United States.  They are invaluable to ensuring that our Nation’s underserved populations,
especially individuals and families living in poverty, rural communities, and communities of color
are able to receive the care they need and deserve.
d. Community Health Centers serve as beacons of essential resources and support in
testing and treatment in the face of the global coronavirus pandemic, and will continue to offer
reliable, affordable, high -quality care against COVID-19 for America’s most vulnerable and
underserved communities.
e. Our Nation’s recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic is stronger because of our health
centers, and the tireless, dedicated health center employees who continue to deliver critical
services such as COVID-19 testing, treatment, and prevention services on the front lines. Health
centers, through the Health Center COVID-19 Vaccine Program, have vaccinated and built
vaccine confidence in millions of Americans from hard-hit and high-risk communities. Two-thirds
of individuals vaccinated at health centers so far identify as racial and ethn ic minorities. Health
centers have also offered greater flexibility during the pandemic by expanding telehealth
services to those in need.
f. Community Health Centers are governed by patient -majority boards, ensuring that the
patients of each health center are engaged in their own health care decisions.
g. Community Health Centers are on the front lines of the emerging health care crisis,
providing access to care for our nation’s veterans, addressing the opioid epidemic, and
responding to public health threats in the wake of natural disasters.
h. The Community Health Center model continues to prove an effective means of
overcoming barriers to healthcare access, including geography, income, and insurance status -
improving healthcare outcomes and reducing healthcare system costs.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
1. August 7-13, 2022 proclaimed to be National Health Center Week in Multnomah County,
Oregon and encouraging all Multnomah County residents to take part in this week by visiting
their local Health Center and celebrating the important partnership between America’s
Community Health Centers and the communities they serve.
ADOPTED this 11th day of August, 2022.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Deborah Kafoury, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By
     Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney
SUBMITTED BY: Adrienne Daniels