BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
PROCLAMATION NO. 2022-043
Proclaiming the Month of May 2022 as Older Americans Month in Multnomah County,
Oregon.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
1. One in five people living in Multnomah County is 60 years or older. By 2030, that
proportion is expected to reach nearly one in four. We affirm this growing
population of older adults and elders and celebrate their contributions and voices
in our community.
2. Our whole community benefits when people of all ages, abilities, and backgrounds
are welcomed, included, and supported. Older adults thrive when choice and self-
determination is prioritized and their choices and natural support are honored.
3. Aging, Disability and  Veterans Services Division (“ADVSD”) supports an aging
services network, which includes community -based organizations and partners
across Multnomah County, and provides access to services and programs that
reflect and affirm the diverse people, cultures and languages of older adults and
elders across the County.
4. Services and support that are responsive to the needs and preferences fosters the
well-being and safety of older adults and elders so they may live independently
and age where they choose.
5. Community and connection are necessary for all of us, particularly as we age. The
COVID-19 pandemic has shifted how we offer opportunities for connection and
community with and among older people, and the importance of transportation
services and technology access.
6. Transportation that is low-cost and accessible was consistently ranked among the
highest needs by older adults and elders across communities and identities in
Multnomah County’s most recent Area Plan needs assessment survey. The survey
also identified a desire among older people for technology training and access.
7. ADVSD is committed to continually seeking input from our community in our work
with the Aging Services Advisory Council and the Disabilities Services Advisory
Council. The a dvocacy of these councils has improved our community and
supported independence and choice for older people.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
May 2022 is Older Americans Month, a time to recognize the unique path and experiences
of older adults and elders in our community. Consistent with this year’s national theme,
“Age My Way,” we ask people in Multnomah County to recognize and celebrate older
adults and elders in their communities.
ADOPTED this 19th day of May, 2022.
SUBMITTED BY: Commissioner Sharon Meieran, District 1.
     Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Deborah Kafoury, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By