BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
PROCLAMATION NO. 2023-076
Proclaiming September 2023 as Infant Mortality Awareness Month in Multnomah County,
Oregon.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
1. Multnomah County is committed to reducing infant mortality and improving the health
outcomes of Black and Indigenous parents and babies through respectful community -
clinical practices and interventions an d has formally acknowledged racism as a public
health crisis.
2. September is Infant Mortality Awareness Month, an initiative that supports and inspires
people from around the nation to take action in support of the goal to improve the health
and well-being of women, people capable of birth, infants, children and families.
3. Infant Mortality Awareness Month is an initiative intended to celebrate infants living
beyond their first year of life.
4. Racial inequities in infant mortality rates persist among Black/Af rican American and
Native/Indigenous communities in Multnomah County and are the result of barriers in
healthcare, support, employment, and community settings as well as racial and ethnic
discrimination within health care systems; statistically, Black/Afri can Americans are the
only ethnic group where parental education and income do not serve as protective factors
against infant mortality.
5. Multnomah County recognizes the benefits doulas and lactation counselors provide in
improving birth outcomes and reduc ing the risk of infant mortality; significantly reducing
the likelihood of preterm birth and low birth weight all while combatting the effects of
racism on health during the perinatal period; and increasing breastfeeding initiation and
longevity by providing educational, physical, and emotional support during pregnancy,
birth, and postpartum for all birthing people.
6. Multnomah County commits to exploring how to ensure access to community based doula
and lactation support for all residents regardless of insurance by building on the strengths
and wisdom of our communities; raising up needed changes to support health for babies,
birthing people, and caregivers of babies; and the importance of reducing racial disparities
in healthcare and birth outcomes for babies.
7. National Infant Mortality Awareness Month provides opportunities for our community to
get involved and support Multnomah County Health Department Parent Child Family
Health, Healthy Birth Initiatives, Future Generations Collaborative, and our partner s in
Multnomah County; and the opportunity to encourage government agencies, community-
based organizations, healthcare systems and academic institutions to work together to
engage in equity efforts in their communities to eliminate disparities and overall reduce
infant mortality in our County.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
September 2023 as Infant Mortality Awareness Month in Multnomah County, Oregon, in
recognition and celebration of the importance of each child born in our community celebrating
their first birthday and living healthy and rewarding lives.
ADOPTED this 7th day of September, 2023.
SUBMITTED BY: Valdez Bravo, Multnomah County Health Department Director
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By
Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney