BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
RESOLUTION NO. 2020-007
Approving the Multnomah County Transportation Capital Improvement Plan and Program for
Fiscal Years 2020-2024.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. Multnomah County's roads, Willamette River Bridges, bikeways, pedestrian ways, and
related structures are vital to an orderly and balanced transportation system and must
be maintained and preserved to provide for the safe and efficient movement of people
and commerce.
b. A unified approach to long-range facilities planning and capital investment programming
is a County goal.
c. The Multnomah County Transportation Division has established a process, consistent
with County Transportation System Plan Policies #5 and #17 to develop a County
Transportation Capital Improvement Plan and Program (Transportation CIPP).
d. The Transportation CIPP establishes priorities for capital improvements that will
maximize the use of financial resources and provide for the safe and reliable public use
of the County roads, Willamette River Bridges, bikeways, pedestrian ways, and related
structures.
e. The Transportation CIPP is a two-part document. The Transportation Capital
Improvement Plan (the Plan) identifies and scores transportation projects needed in the
next 20 years. The Transportation Capital Improvement Program (the Program) assigns
available revenues to high priority projects for a five-year period.
f. The Multnomah County FY 2014-2018 Transportation CIPP was approved by this board
on May 28, 2015 by Resolution 2015-049.
g. The Program is updated biennially to reflect new and completed projects as well as the
most current revenue projections. This action would approve the biennial update of the
FY 2020-24 CIPP.
h. The 2020 update includes revisions to all project prioritization criteria and project cost
estimate for all non-Willamette River Bridge projects; as well as cost estimate updates
for Willamette River Bridge projects.
i. The 2020 update reflects new and better data about all capital needs and included an
extensive public input process including 7 in person open houses, 3 online open
houses, and presentations at multiple neighborhood associations, advisory committees,
and other meetings. This resulted in over 700 comments over the course of the update.
j. The Public Review Draft 2020 Update of the Transportation CIPP has been available
online since November 7, 2019. Comments on the Public Review draft have been
incorporated into the Final Draft, which has been posted online January 3, 2020.
k. The Transportation Division staff recommends the County Board approve the attached
2020 Update of the FY 2020 - 2024 Transportation CIPP.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves:
1. The 2020 Update of Multnomah County Fiscal Years 2020-2025 Transportation Capital
Improvement plan and program is approved.
ADOPTED this 23rd day of January, 2020.
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, OUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH CO NTY, OREGON
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
~6f'Jo
Deborah Kafoury, Chair
, r. Asst. County Attorney
SUBMITTED BY: Jamie Waltz, Interim Director, Department of Community Services
TRANSPORTATION
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT
PLAN AND PROGRAM
2020-2024
FINAL DRAFT
January 3, 2020

This page intentionally left blank.

Final RCIPP
Task 5. 2 – Final Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program  (RCIPP)
Date:  December 27, 2019
To:  Multnomah County
From:  Shelly Alexander, PE, David Evans and Associates, Inc.
  Hannah Polow, AICP, David Evans and Associates, Inc.
  Justin Kuenne, EIT, David Evans and Associates, Inc.
Subject: Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program (RCIPP) Update

Table of Contents
Executive Summary ........................................................................................................................................ i
Introduction .................................................................................................................................................. 1
Plan ........................................................................................................................................................... 3
Program..................................................................................................................................................... 3
Update Process ......................................................................................................................................... 3
Public Process ........................................................................................................................................... 5
Plan Framework ............................................................................................................................................ 8
Scoring Framework Development ............................................................................................................ 8
Project Scoring ............................................................................................................................................ 11
Criteria and Measures ............................................................................................................................. 11
Criteria and Measures Summary ............................................................................................................ 59
Scoring Framework Limitations .............................................................................................................. 61
Project Distribution ................................................................................................................................. 62
Project Development and Cost Estimates .................................................................................................. 67
Project Development .............................................................................................................................. 67
Tactical Asset Management Plan ............................................................................................................ 70
List of projects ......................................................................................................................................... 75
Bridge Capital Improvement Plan and Program ......................................................................................... 80
Capital Improvement Program ................................................................................................................... 89
Purpose ................................................................................................................................................... 89
Funding Influences and Decisions ........................................................................................................... 89
Five-Year Capital Improvement Program................................................................................................ 91

This page intentionally left blank.

Final RCIPP   i
Executive Summary
Multnomah County (County) is updating its Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program (RCIPP).
The RCIPP identifies transportation needs in the County and establishes a strategic implementation
approach.
The County aims to completely update the RCIPP at regular intervals to reflect ongoing priorities as well
as changes to policies, technology and the environment. The last major update was completed in 2002,
and minor updates were completed in 2005, 2010, and 2014. To update its RCIPP, the County first
updated its Roadway Capital Improvement Plan, or Plan—a component part of the RCIPP, which
includes a list of transportation project needs for the next 20-plus years. To update the Plan, the County
conducted a detailed inventory of its transportation assets covered under the Plan—roadways, bike and
pedestrian facilities, and fish passage culverts—and developed a scoring framework to rank candidate
projects from highest to lowest priority. Throughout the plan update, three rounds of public
engagement took place around the County to share information and collect input on the process and
projects.
As part of the plan update the County identified over 100 GIS data sources with potentially useful data.
After filtering down to under 30 sources, the County compiled and assessed relevant data and identified
deficiencies in the roadway network. The next step involved supplementing the existing data with new,
current data. With multiple options for collecting new data, the County decided to utilize LiDAR (Light
Detection and Ranging) technology, which was utilized in 2014 as well. The new scan that took place in
2018 benefited from higher resolution than the 2014 scan as well as two scans per roadway. The scan
enabled them to efficiently collect large amounts of accurate data of all 270 miles of County-maintained
roadways. Figure 1 shows the County-maintained roadways within three different regions of the county.
Figure 1: County Regions

From the existing and newly captured data, the County catalogued eleven roadway features. Orbit GT
was used for semi-automated data extraction, and analysis and tracking were performed with ArcGIS.
Over 25,000 features were extracted, each of which includes four to six attributes.

Final RCIPP   ii
The County also reviewed all existing Capital projects in the following documents:
1. Multnomah County CIPP (2014-18)
2. City of Gresham TSP (2015)
3. City of Fairview TSP (2016)
4. City of Troutdale TSP (2013)
5. Urban Pockets of Unincorporated Multnomah County TSP (2006)
6. Main Streets on Halsey (2017)
7. East Metro Connections Plan (2012)
8. Multnomah County TSP (2016)
9. City of Wood Village TSP (2016)
10. Regional Transportation Plan (2014)
11. Halsey Street Corridor Study (2005)
12. 257th Avenue Enhancement Study (1997)
13. Multnomah County ADA Transition Plan Inventory (2017)
In addition to the above, projects recommended by the public at meetings and input from County
maintenance and engineering staff were included in the project list. Figure 2 shows the number of RCIPP
projects per region and Figure 3 shows the total RCIPP projects’ costs per region within unincorporated
Multnomah County.
Figure 3: Projects per Region within Unincorporated
Figure 2: Projects' Costs per Region within
Unincorporated Multnomah County

Final RCIPP   iii
The scoring framework was developed to evaluate projects that best reflect the County’s values and
priorities for the transportation system. This process was aided by a detailed review of County plans and
national best practices as well as feedback received through public engagement efforts. Ultimately, it
was decided to evaluate candidate projects on the following criteria: Equity, Safety, Mobility, Asset
Management, Resiliency and Emergency Management, and Sustainability. Candidate projects were then
scored to determine their ranking among all projects included in the updated Plan, thereby identifying
the County’s most critical transportation capital needs. The scoring methodology is described in the Plan
Framework section and the details of each criteria is described in the Project Scoring section.
The County then updated the Roadway Capital Improvement Program (Program). The Program identifies
an implementation strategy for the Plan by assigning funding to projects for construction. To update the
Program, the County forecasted estimated transportation revenues over the next five years and
assigned those revenues to specific projects according to priority. The total expense outlined in the 5-
year program for roadway capital improvement projects is approximately $40.4 million. The details
associated with the Program can be found in the Capital Improvement section.

Final RCIPP   iv

This page intentionally left blank.
Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update  2020
Final RCIPP  1
Introduction
The Multnomah County (County) Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program (RCIPP) is a two-part
effort, consisting of the Roadway Capital Improvement Plan (Plan) and the Roadway Capital
Improvement Program (Program). The plan and program identify projects within the County’s road
service area. Multnomah County’s road service area includes roads and assets in the cities of Fairview,
Troutdale, and Wood Village and in unincorporated areas including Sauvie Island, the West Hills and the
Corbett area. This service area also includes 6 Willamette River bridges within the City of Portland. The
Multnomah County Transportation Division is responsible for the design, construction, maintenance,
operation, and planning of almost 300 miles of roads, 27 bridges, 1700 culverts, and many miles of
sidewalks, bike lanes, and drainage pipes and ditches in this road service area. Figure 4 shows the
County-maintained roadways within three different regions of the county.
Figure 4: County Regions

The purpose of the RCIPP is to deliver on the goals of the County, the Cities that are served by County
roads, and the Transportation Division. The Cities of Fairview, Troutdale, and Wood Village have
Transportation System Plans that include future capital improvements on County Roads. The County
also has a Transportation System Plan for unincorporated Multnomah County which includes capital
projects in unincorporated areas.
As part of the development of the RCIPP, a best practices review was conducted. This included an
analysis of the goals of the County, the Department, and the Transportation System Plans. Stakeholder
interviews were held with staff from other County departments and offices, staff at Fairview, Troutdale,
and Wood Village, and management within the Transportation Division.
Table 1 lists the goals from each review process and highlights the common goals.
Final RCIPP   2
Table 1: Summary of Goal Interests by Review Process
Stakeholder Interviews Best Practices Summary Document Review
• Safety
• Strategic asset management
• Equity
• Climate change
• DCS/Transportation:
- Reliability
- Equity
- Transparency
- Integrity
- Leadership
• Economic vitality
• Livability
• Mobility
• Safety
• Sustainability
• Diversity
• Equity
• Review for Best Practices:
- Climate change
- Health
- Autonomous vehicles
- Stormwater/culverts/flooding
- Reliability
- Strategic asset management
- Emergency management
- Urban/rural
- Active transportation
• Balance transportation options/
manage travel demand
• Encourage economic prosperity
• Promote safety
• Allocate limited funding
efficiently
• Ensure plans programs are
consistent with existing local,
state, and federal regulations
• Promote public health
• Ensure equity
• Use performance-based
management
Note: Bold indicates goals that moved forward within the analysis
From the analysis, six goals emerged (shown in the bullet list below). These goals informed the Criteria
and Measures, which are outlined in the next section.
• Safety
• Equity
• Asset Management
• Mobility
• Resiliency/Emergency Management
• Sustainability
Creating a balanced system reflects the County’s commitment to improving all modes of transportation.
Improvements for motor vehicles, cyclists, pedestrians, and fish passage culverts are all included in the
RCIPP. By regularly updating the RCIPP, the County is (1) continuing to make strategic transportation
investments that provide the greatest benefits for all users, and (2) bolstering its eligibility and
competitiveness for state and federal grant programs. The component parts of the RCIPP, the Plan and
Program, are summarized below.

Final RCIPP   3
Plan
The Plan is a comprehensive listing of transportation capital project1 needs in Multnomah County for the
next 20 or more years. The objective of the Plan is to identify those projects that are most crucial to
maintain and enhance the transportation system to best meet the County’s goals (see Figure 3). To
identify the projects that address its most critical needs, the County has developed a scoring framework
to assign priority to candidate projects. This scoring framework evaluates candidate projects using the
following criteria: Equity, Safety, Mobility, Asset Management, Resiliency and Emergency Management,
and Sustainability. The Scoring Framework Development section discusses this scoring framework in
greater detail.
Program
The Program seeks to implement the Plan by assigning County revenues to the candidate projects
included in the Plan for a five-year period. Currently, the County receives transportation revenues from
three primary sources: federal distributions2, the State Highway Fund3 and the County’s $0.03/gallon
gas tax. Historically, these revenues do not meet the amount the County requires to maintain its
transportation system at levels consistent with its standards. As such, the Program is able to assign
funding to only the most critical projects—in this case, those with scores indicating the highest level of
priority.
Update Process
The County’s approach for project implementation (the Program) is constrained by similarly dynamic
factors: construction costs and the availability of transportation revenues. To account for these potential
changes in community needs and purchasing power, the County updates the component parts of its
RCIPP, the Plan and Program, at regular intervals.
The County aims to completely update the Plan at regular intervals to reflect ongoing priorities as well
as changes to policies, technology and the environment. The last major update to the Plan was
completed in 2002, and minor updates were completed in 2005, 2010, and 2014. In this current major
update, the County has developed a new scoring framework to prioritize roadway, bicycle and
pedestrian, bridge, and culvert projects for the next 20 years. Minor updates of the Plan should be
completed as necessary between major updates to keep it as effective as possible in identifying the
County’s most critical transportation project needs.
The Program identifies an implementation approach for the Plan by assigning funds to projects for their
implementation over the next five years. Because of the shorter horizon of the Program compared to
the Plan (5 years versus 20 years) and the possible volatility associated with the collection of
transportation revenues and construction costs, the County completes an update at least every two
years. To match available funding with transportation projects, the County performs an annual internal
review. At least every other year, the County completes a formal update to the Program, during which

1 Operations and maintenance (O&M) needs are not included in the Roadway Capital Improvement Plan. Examples
of O&M projects include striping, signing, or crack sealing. The County finances these projects through separate
funds designated for O&M.
2 The sources of federal monies distributed to the County include the Surface Transportation Program and the
Highway and Bridge Program.
3 The sources of revenue contributing to the State Highway Fund include the state gas tax, vehicle registration fees,
and the truck weight/mile tax.
Final RCIPP   4
time the County engages in an extensive public engagement effort to collect citizen input on the most
critical transportation needs over the next five years.
Collecting Data and Mapping Deficiencies
To better understand the conditions of County roads, all 270 miles of County-maintained roadways were
scanned using the laser surveying method, LiDAR. LiDAR uses ultraviolet, visible, or near infrared light to
image objects by illuminating them with laser light and measuring the return time and frequency of
reflected light with a sensor to then calculate the precise distances between objects and the light-
emitting source. This allows precision mapping of large areas with minimal effort. This method enabled
the analysis of all County roads, and provided detailed information of 11 roadway attributes:
• Travel lanes
• Bike lanes
• Driveways
• Landscape buffers
• Legends – examples could include turn arrows, bicycle lane stencils, RR XING stencils, etc.
• Shoulders
• Obstacles
• Sidewalk data
• Turning lane/width
• Medians
• Curbs
The 11 attributes were mapped, including the size, shape, and condition of all County roadways. This
data remains available for future use during operations and maintenance, project design and
construction, and decision-making for leveraging funds.
The information collected and mapped using LiDAR will be added to the County’s existing maps, which
show attributes such as landslide hazards, guardrail conditions, culvert locations, and ditches. This
information created a comprehensive dataset so the County could determine where deficiencies exist in
the current roadway system to help identify and prioritize system improvements.

The LiDAR truck used to capture the data for this project.
Final RCIPP   5
Public Process
The County engaged with the public at three phases during this project to collect input and feedback on
project recommendations. A series of open houses and online open houses were held to engage with
the public over the course of the following three phases:
• Phase 1 (April 2018): Initial input on needed improvement locations and project prioritization
• Phase 2 (February 2019): Feedback on prioritized list of projects
• Phase 3 (November 2019): Review of the draft RCIPP document
This section is organized by phase, summarizing the content presented and the corresponding feedback
received from the public. Throughout phases 1 and 2, safety was an important consideration for the
public. They showed a clear desire for this to be a top factor when making decisions about project
prioritization.
Phase 1
In spring 2018, the first round of public engagement occurred, including open houses throughout the
County as well as online. The purpose of this initial round was to gather public input regarding what
improvements were needed, where they may be needed, and how they should be prioritized. Feedback
was encouraged on the County’s evaluation criteria, project list, and priorities for the RCIPP.
The public expressed concerns regarding multiple issues, including:
• High-crash locations
• Dangerous and on-going high-speed driving locations
• The importance of walking and biking
• Increased traffic volumes
• Tourism effects on infrastructure
• Logging effects on the natural environment, specifically on the Columbia River Gorge
• Commuter traffic route choices
• The prioritization process and allocation of funds
In addition to providing feedback directly related to this project, attendees provided other comments as
well. Community needs and individual concerns varied by geographical location, with the residents of
the West regional area expressing the most concern regarding cut-thru commuter traffic. Residents of
the Urban East regional area expressed concerns of increased traffic volumes on Marine Drive as a result
of increased industry and shipping in the area. Residents of the Rural East regional area expressed
concerns of the negative effects on infrastructure from the tourism industry. Multiple citizens expressed
a desire for the County to address immediate maintenance and safety issues.
When asked to rank the scoring criteria in order of importance, Safety and Equity were the two criteria
that ranked the highest.
As a result of concerns associated with asset management, safety, and equity, the County integrated
that into the weighting methodology to have the measure scores for these three criteria carry a heavier
weight than the other criteria.
Final RCIPP   6
Phase 2
In winter 2019, the second round of public engagement occurred, including open houses throughout the
County as well as online open house. The purpose of the second round was to inform the public about
the RCIPP, share the project list, and gather public input on the project list and the criteria used in
ranking the projects. Participants were asked to describe any scenario they would have preferred over
the four offered. Of 35 responses, half described a scenario even more heavily weighted toward safety,
or combining mobility and/or equity in interdependence with safety. This reiterated the importance of
safety to be weighted as one of the top criteria, which remained one of the top weighted criteria in the
final scoring.
Participants were asked to choose their top five projects from a list of 127 road capital projects. In
response, 89 projects were selected — but only 30 were chosen by five or more participants (see Figure
5). The number of points means the number of times a project showed up in participants’ choices.
Figure 5: Priority Projects Identified in Open Houses during Phase 2 (Winter 2019)

Final RCIPP   7
Phase 3
In fall 2019, the third round of public engagement occurred, including an open house and online open
house. The final project scores and draft document were available for public review. The purpose of the
third  (final) round of public engagement was to inform the public about the RCIPP, review the draft plan
(including if any projects are missing from the final plan), and provide feedback on the approximately
130 capital projects, including priority and schedule. About a quarter of the  63 submitted comments
concerned projects 535U and 536U (both located on Scholls Ferry Road), mostly expressing a need for
sidewalks along the whole of Scholls Ferry Road. Other projects receiving more than one comment:
• 110R and 111R (Cornelius Pass Road): 5
• 505U and 506U (238th Drive): 3
• 118R and 119R (Dodge Park Road): 3
• 122R (Germantown Road): 2
• 514U (Forest Park / SW Hills Urban Pockets Sidewalk Infill): 2
Other comments were more general, not specific to projects on the list. Topics included walking and
biking, culverts and wildlife crossings, and maintenance concerns including potholes. All are represented
in full in the appendix.
Final RCIPP   8
Plan Framework
In the previous section, the Roadway Capital Improvement Plan (or Plan) is defined. In this section, the
Plan is discussed in greater detail.
Scoring Framework Development
Multnomah County has developed a comprehensive scoring evaluation framework for the purpose of
ranking and prioritizing transportation projects for its Plan. Based on a review of its overall goals,
adopted plans, national best practices, and public feedback, the County has defined six scoring criteria
to evaluate projects across six different areas: Equity, Safety, Mobility, Asset Management, Resiliency
and Emergency Management, and Sustainability. For each criterion, a number of measures—grouped
into sub-topics—explain the details associated with evaluating each project. Figure 6: Evaluation
Framework summarizes the hierarchy of these components for this framework.
These components are defined below:
• Criteria – Broad subject areas to structure the evaluation framework.
• Sub-topics – Categories within each criterion to define what topics the criterion will address.
• Measures – Evaluative questions associated with each criterion that result in qualitative or
quantitative answers.
Figure 6: Evaluation Framework

Figure 7 summarizes the steps taken to develop the scoring framework used for the Plan. The three
primary steps undertaken as part of the scoring framework development process are summarized
below. Additional detail and discussion on these steps can be found in the appendices.
Figure 7: Scoring Framework Development Timeline

Scoring Framework Development  Testing  Scoring

CRITERION
SUB-TOPIC
MEASURE MEASURE MEASURE
SUB-TOPIC
MEASURE MEASURE
Develop Scoring
Criteria and
Measures
Develop Scoring
Methodology
for Measures
Develop
Weighting for
Criteria
Test Scoring
Methodology
and Criteria
Weighting
Score Projects
Final RCIPP   9
Scoring Criteria and Measures
As a first step in its development of a scoring framework, the County chose scoring criteria and
measures, grouped into sub-topics within each criterion. These criteria and measures represent the
primary components of the scoring framework used in this update to the Plan. To guide its
development, the County reviewed relevant planning documents, studied national best practices, and
conducted stakeholder interviews. Based on these efforts and their consistency with guiding goals for
future transportation investment stated in the County’s 2016 TSP, seven criteria were selected.
Associated measures were also established for each criterion and grouped into sub-topics for
organizational purposes. Measures were chosen based on their usefulness in evaluation and data
availability. In later steps of the development and refinement of the scoring framework, one of these
criteria was eliminated, for a total of six: Equity, Safety, Mobility, Asset Management, Resiliency and
Emergency Management, and Sustainability. Discussions of the sub-topics and measures under these
criteria and other additional details can be found in Appendix A.
Scoring Methodology for Measures
With an established framework of criteria, sub-topics, and measures, methodologies to score each
measure were defined. For each measure, a scoring methodology was developed to calculate scores
ranging from zero to three. The scoring methodologies defined for the measures included a range of
evaluation strategies, varying based on the nature of the measure and the characteristics of available
data (e.g., quantitative versus qualitative). Higher scores were used to indicate a higher level of priority
or project need, facilitating quick comparisons between multiple projects’ scores for a single measure.
The scale of zero to three was selected to reflect not applicable (N/A), low, medium, and high when
scoring the projects (see Table 2).
Table 2: Score Explanation
Score Description
0 N/A
1 Low priority
2 Medium priority
3 High priority
In preparation for the next step in the scoring framework development process, measures scores were
then converted into aggregated criteria scores and converted to a 100-point scale, so they could be
more readily interpreted.4 See Appendix A for more details.5

4 As described in this paragraph, two different scoring scales are used in the scoring methodology. A scoring scale
of zero to three is used early in the process, because it provides convenient benchmarks that pair effectively with
the scoring methodologies used for the measures. For example, the scores 1/2/3 are used to correspond to low/
medium/high levels of priority for a given measure, with 0 corresponding to the evaluation being “not applicable”
for a given project. Later in the scoring process, conversion to a 100-point scale is performed in order to increase
interpretability and to facilitate the rounding of total scores to the nearest whole number or nearest tenth without
significant loss in the score’s meaning.
5 In the memorandum found in Appendix A, a discussion of refinements to the criteria and measures developed in
the first step of the scoring framework development process, “Develop Scoring for Measures,” is provided.
Final RCIPP   10
Weighting Criteria
In the final major step of the scoring framework development process, the County established strategic
criteria weightings for use in determining final scores for projects. The criteria weightings developed in
this process were chosen to best reflect the County’s priorities for the future of its transportation
system as well as public feedback collected at open house events, through written correspondence, and
from surveys. While all six criteria were incorporated into the scoring framework because of their
alignment with the County’s priorities, goals, and values, three criteria were given additional emphasis:
Equity, Safety, and Asset Management. See Table 3 and Figure 8.
Table 3: Criteria Rankings and Weights
Criterion Rank (1 = most prioritized) Weight
Equity 1 (tied) 20%
Safety 1 (tied) 20%
Asset Management 1 (tied) 20%
Mobility 2 15%
Resiliency and Emergency Management 3 13%
Sustainability 4 12%

Figure 8: Scoring Summary

With these weights specified for application in determining final scores for projects, the scoring
framework was ready. Appendix B, “Develop Normalization and Weighting for Criteria” outlines this
process.
Final RCIPP   11
Project Scoring
After developing the structure for the RCIPP, the County developed criteria and corresponding measures
to score the projects. The criteria were developed based on a number of components, including:
• Planning documents (TSP, Bridge Capital Improvement Plan, and Strategic Capital Plan)
• Staff and upper management review
• Public involvement (stakeholder interviews and public meetings)
Within this section, an introduction is provided for each criterion, and measures are broken into the sub-
topics if applicable. Following the details associated with each criterion, high-level data will be displayed
for the county. For more detailed scoring information, including how scores of 0-3 are applied, see
Appendix A. More detailed maps (with zoomed-in extents) can be found in Appendix C.
Criteria and Measures
Equity
Eight measures are divided across two sub-topics: Population Groups and Health Risk Factors. Measures
under each of these sub-topics identify the relationship between a given project and (1) the distribution
of vulnerable or transportation disadvantaged populations, and (2) the occurrence of health risk factors,
respectively. Projects in areas with higher concentrations of these population groups or health risk
factors score higher. Geographical concentrations of population groups are determined at the U.S.
Census block group level.
Sub-topic – Population Groups:
The Population Groups measures are based on data from the Census Bureau. The following measures
are included within this sub-topic:
• People of Color (See Figure 9)
• Limited English Proficiency (LEP) (See Figure 10)
• Older Adults (See Figure 11)
• Children (See Figure 12)
• Disability (See Figure 13)
• Low-income (See Figure 14)
Sub-topic – Health Risk Factors:
The Health Risk Factors measures are based on data from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
(for environmental toxins) and from the County (for body mass index [BMI]). The following measures are
included within this sub-topic:
• Environmental Toxins (See Figure 15)
• BMI (See Figure 16)
Final RCIPP   12
Many projects, such as a major roadway or bikeway corridor project, span multiple block groups. In
these cases, each segment of the project is assigned a score for each measure for every block group the
project intersects. The project’s overall score for a given Equity measure is assigned based on the
average (mean) of all the data for that measure across all applicable block groups.
Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update      2020
Final RCIPP      13
Figure 9: Map of People of Color for Multnomah County

Note: More detailed scoring information can be found in Appendix A
Note: More detailed scoring information can be found in Appendix A.
Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020
Final RCIPP       14
Figure 10: Map of Limited English Proficiency (LEP) for Multnomah County

Note:  More detailed scoring information can be found in Appendix A.
Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020
Final RCIPP       15
Figure 11: Map of Older Adults for Multnomah County

Note:  More detailed scoring information can be found in Appendix A.
Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020
Final RCIPP       16
Figure 12: Map of Children for Multnomah County

Note:  More detailed scoring information can be found in Appendix A.
Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020
Final RCIPP       17
Figure 13: Map of Disability for Multnomah County

Note:  More detailed scoring information can be found in Appendix A.
Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020
Final RCIPP       18
Figure 14: Map of Low-Income for Multnomah County

Note:  More detailed scoring information can be found in Appendix A.
Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020
Final RCIPP       19
Figure 15: Map of Environmental Toxins for Multnomah County

Note:  More detailed scoring information can be found in Appendix A.
Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020
Final RCIPP       20
Figure 16: Map of BMI for Multnomah County

Note: More detailed scoring information can be found in Appendix A.

Final RCIPP  21
Safety
Six measures are identified for the Safety criterion, divided among three sub-topics: Existing Crash
Information, Potential Crash Information, and Potential Safety Benefits. These measures evaluate
projects in the context of safety needs for a transportation facility. Projects achieving the highest scores
for the measures in this criterion are those in areas with a history of crashes or greater potential for
crashes as well as those that incorporate specific improvements to improve safety for all users.
Sub-topics – Existing Crash Information and Potential Crash Information:
Existing Crash Information and Potential Crash Information data comes from the County. The following
measures are included within these sub-topics:
Existing Crash Information
• Safety priority index system (SPIS) rating (See Figure 17)
• Severity of crashes (See Figure 18)
• Pedestrian/bicycle crashes (See Figure 19)
Potential Crash Information
• Safety index (See Figure 20)
Sub-topic – Potential Safety Benefits:
The Potential Safety Benefits sub-topic is based on details associated with the project description. The
following measures are included within this sub-topic:
• Potential safety benefits for non-motorized modes
• Potential safety benefits for motor vehicles
For projects with multiple scores for multiple units of analysis (e.g., a project corridor divided into
multiple street segments) for a given Safety measure, the project will score the maximum of all scores.
Final RCIPP   22

This page intentionally left blank.

Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020

Final RCIPP      23
Figure 17: Map of Safety Priority Index System (SPIS) Rating for Multnomah County

Note: Score of 1 was not utilized for this measure. More detailed
scoring information can be found in Appendix A.

Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020
Final RCIPP       24
Figure 18: Map of Severity of Crashes for Multnomah County

Note: More detailed scoring information can be found in Appendix A.

Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020
Final RCIPP       25
 Figure 19: Map of Pedestrian/Bicycle Crashes for Multnomah County

Note: More detailed scoring information can be found in Appendix A.
Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020
Final RCIPP       26
Figure 20: Map of Safety Index for Multnomah County

Note: More detailed scoring information can be found in Appendix A.

Final RCIPP  27
Mobility
Eight measures are identified for the Mobility criterion and are divided into three sub-topics:
Infrastructure, Operations, and Capacity. These measures serve to prioritize projects that best address
mobility and accessibility needs in the County. Projects that score highest across the measures under the
Mobility criterion provide enhanced freedom of mobility as well as improved inter-modal connectivity
and accessibility for all users.
Sub-topic – Infrastructure:
Most of the measures within the infrastructure topic are based on data provided by the County (Project
Length is the only exception and is based on the project description). The following measures are
included within this sub-topic:
• Project length
• Transit connections (See Figure 21)
• School connections (See Figure 22)
• Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) compliance (See Figure 23)
Sub-topic – Operations:
The Operations sub-topic and only measure, Congestion Relief, is based on data from the County, with
boundary information from Metro. The following measures are included within this sub-topic:
• Congestion relief (See Figure 24)
Sub-topic – Capacity:
The three Capacity sub-topics (Vehicle, Bike, and Pedestrian) are based on details associated with the
project description. The following measures are included within this sub-topic:
• Vehicle capacity
• Bike capacity
• Pedestrian capacity
For projects with multiple scores for a given Mobility measure, the project will score the maximum of all
scores.

Final RCIPP   28

This page intentionally left blank.
Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020

Final RCIPP      29
Figure 21: Map of Transit Connections for Multnomah County

Note: More detailed scoring information can be found in Appendix A.
Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020
Final RCIPP       30
Figure 22: Map of School Connections for Multnomah County

Note: More detailed scoring information can be found in Appendix A.
Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020
Final RCIPP       31
Figure 23: Map of ADA Compliance for Multnomah County

Note: More detailed scoring information can be found in Appendix A.
Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020
Final RCIPP       32
Figure 24: Map of Congestion Relief for Multnomah County

Note: More detailed scoring information can be found in Appendix A.

Final RCIPP  33
Asset Management
Seven measures are under the Asset Management criterion and are divided among three sub-topics:
Surface Infrastructure, Structures, and Criticality. These measures evaluate asset condition to prioritize
projects that address insufficient or failing infrastructure or the County’s most critical assets. Projects
scoring highest for these measures are those that address areas of most urgent need or critical
importance.
Sub-topics – Surface Infrastructure, Structures, and Criticality:
All data used within this criterion is from the County. The following measures are included within these
sub-topics:
Surface Infrastructure
• Pavement condition (See Figure 25)
• Signalized intersections (See Figure 26)
• Guardrail (See Figure 27)
• Shoulder (See Figure 28)
Structures
• Culverts (See Figure 29)
• Bridges (See Figure 30)
Criticality
• Critical roads (See Figure 31)
For projects with multiple scores for a given Asset Management measure, the project will score the
maximum of all scores.
Final RCIPP   34

This page intentionally left blank.

Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020

Final RCIPP      35
Figure 25: Map of Pavement Condition for Multnomah County

Note: More detailed scoring information can be found in Appendix A.
Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020
Final RCIPP       36
Figure 26: Map of Signalized Intersections for Multnomah County

Note: More detailed scoring information can be found in Appendix A.
Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020
Final RCIPP       37
Figure 27: Map of Guardrail for Multnomah County

Note: Score of 2 was not utilized for this measures. More detailed
scoring information can be found in Appendix A.

Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020
Final RCIPP       38
Figure 28: Map of Shoulders for Multnomah County

Note: More detailed scoring information can be found in Appendix A.
Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020
Final RCIPP       39
Figure 29: Map of Culverts for Multnomah County

Note: More detailed scoring information can be found in Appendix A.
Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020
Final RCIPP       40
Figure 30: Map of Bridges for Multnomah County

Note: More detailed scoring information can be found in Appendix A.
Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020
Final RCIPP       41
Figure 31: Map of Critical Roads for Multnomah County

Note: More detailed scoring information can be found in Appendix A.
Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020
Final RCIPP       42

This page intentionally left blank.

Final RCIPP  43
Resiliency and Emergency Management
Seven measures identified for the Resiliency and Emergency Management criterion evaluate how
projects relate to areas associated with high risk of natural disasters and emergency response
operations. The measures are divided among two sub-topics: Known Hazards and Access. The projects
that score highest for this criterion are those that are located in areas of high risk hazards and enhance
mobility and accessibility for emergency response services.
Sub-topics – Known Hazards and Access:
All data used within this criterion is from the County. Additional data from the Oregon Department of
Geology and Mineral Industries (DOGAMI) was integrated into the landslide measure within the Known
Hazards sub-topic.  The following measures are included within these sub-topics:
Known Hazards
• Landslides (See Figure 32)
• Earthquakes (See Figure 33)
• Wildfire risk (See Figure 34)
• Floodplain (See Figure 35)
Access
• Emergency response proximity (See Figure 36)
• Emergency transportation routes (ETRs) (See Figure 37)
• Important access (See Figure 38)
For projects with multiple scores for a given Resiliency and Emergency Management measure, the
project will score the maximum of all scores.
Final RCIPP   44

This page intentionally left blank.

Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020

Final RCIPP      45
Figure 32: Map of Landslides for Multnomah County

Note: Scores of 1 and 2 were not utilized for this measure. More
detailed scoring information can be found in Appendix A.

Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020
Final RCIPP       46
Figure 33: Map of Earthquakes for Multnomah County

Note: Scores of 1 and 2 were not utilized for this measure. More
detailed scoring information can be found in Appendix A.

Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020
Final RCIPP       47
Figure 34: Map of Wildfire Risk for Multnomah County

Note: Scores of 1 and 2 were not utilized for this measure. More
detailed scoring information can be found in Appendix A.
Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020
Final RCIPP       48
Figure 35: Map of Floodplain for Multnomah County

Note: Scores of 1 and 2 were not utilized for this measure. More
detailed scoring information can be found in Appendix A.
Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020
Final RCIPP       49
Figure 36: Map of Emergency Response Proximity for Multnomah County

Note: Scores of 1-3 are based on proximity. More detailed
scoring information can be found in Appendix A.
Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020
Final RCIPP       50
Figure 37: Map of Emergency Transportation Routes (ETRs) for Multnomah County

Note: Scores of 1 and 2 were not utilized for this measure. More
detailed scoring information can be found in Appendix A.
Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020
Final RCIPP       51
Figure 38: Map of Important Access for Multnomah County

Note: More detailed scoring information can be found in Appendix A.
Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020
Final RCIPP       52

This page intentionally left blank.

FInal RCIPP  53
Sustainability
Four measures are identified under the Sustainability criterion and are divided among two sub-topics:
Economic Vitality and Environmental Protection. These measures evaluate the relationship between the
project location and employment opportunities and high value lands or habitats, respectively. Projects
located closer to employment centers and sensitive lands score higher; it is assumed that these projects
will contribute positively to increased economic activity and protection of natural resources.
Sub-topics – Economic Vitality:
The Jobs measure is evaluated based on Census Bureau data. The Rural Center and Opportunity Zones
measure uses data from Business Oregon and the County. The following measures are included within
this sub-topic:
• Jobs (See Figure 39)
• Rural centers and opportunity zones (See Figure 40)
Sub-topics – Environmental Protection:
The Environmental Protection sub-topic measure of High Value Lands is based on data from the Regional
Conservation Strategy.  The Important Fish Passage Culverts data is from the County. The following
measures are included within this sub-topic:
• High value lands (See Figure 41)
• Important fish passage culverts (See Figure 42)
For projects with multiple scores for a given Sustainability measure, the project will score the maximum
of all scores.
Final RCIPP   54

This page intentionally left blank.

Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020

Final RCIPP      55
Figure 39: Map of Jobs for Multnomah County

Note: More detailed scoring information can be found in Appendix A.
Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020
Final RCIPP       56
Figure 40: Map of Rural Centers and Opportunity Zones for Multnomah County

Note: Scores of 1 and 2 were not utilized for this measure. More
detailed scoring information can be found in Appendix A.

Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020
Final RCIPP       57
Figure 41: Map of High Value Lands for Multnomah County

Note: Scores of 1 and 2 were not utilized for this measure. More
detailed scoring information can be found in Appendix A.

Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020
Final RCIPP       58
Figure 42: Map of Important Fish Passage Culverts for Multnomah County
Note: More detailed scoring information can be found in Appendix A.
Final RCIPP   59

Criteria and Measures Summary
Table 4: Criteria and Measures Summary

 Measure Score
0 1 2 3
Equity
People of Color
No population
Lowest third  ≤0.1737 Middle third  ≤0.3046 Highest third ≤0.7319
LEP Lowest third ≤0.0507 Middle third ≤0.0911 Highest third ≤0.2322
Older adults Lowest third ≤0.0182 Middle third ≤0.1331 Highest third ≤0.5275
Children Lowest third ≤0.0507 Middle third ≤0.09114 Highest third ≤0.2322
Disability Lowest third ≤0.1073 Middle third ≤0.1753 Highest third ≤0.5323
Low-income Lowest third ≤0.0832 Middle third ≤0.1641 Highest third ≤0.7557
Environmental
Toxins No PM 2.5 Lowest third ≤9.76 Middle third ≤10.06 Highest third ≤10.41
BMI No population Lowest third ≤25.413 Middle third ≤26.708 Highest third ≤28.597
Safety
(SPIS) rating
No crashes
N/A
Within 0.5 mile or less of
corridor of top 10
percentile SPIS rating
group
Within corridor of top 10
percentile SPIS rating group
Severity of
Crashes PDO crashes Non-fatal injury crash Fatal crash
Pedestrian/Bicy
cle Crashes
Pedestrian OR bicycle crash
AND includes PDO
Pedestrian OR bicycle
crash AND result in a non-
fatal injury
Pedestrian OR bicycle crash
AND result in a fatality
Safety Index
Two situations: (1) Posted
speed is 25 miles per hour
(mph) or lower and (2) 30-
35 mph AND under 12,000
average daily traffic OR
one or two lanes
40 mph+, OR Speed limit
30-35 mph, more than two
lanes, OR 12,000+ ADT
40 mph+ AND one of the
following: More than two
lanes, OR 12,000+ ADT
40 mph+ AND More than two
lanes AND
12,000+ ADT
Potential Safety
for Non-
motorized
"Shoulder," "Sidewalk,"
"Multi-use path" not in
project description
"Shoulder" in project
description
"Sidewalk" or "bike lane"
in project description
"Multi-use path" or "buffered
bike lane" in project description
Potential Safety
for Motor
Vehicles
"Safety" not in the project
description
"Safety" in project
description  N/A N/A
Mobility
Project Length Located at intersection Less than a mile 1-2 miles 2+ miles
Transit
Connections
No bus stops within a half
mile Within 0.5 mile of bus stop Within 0.25 mile of bus
stop Within 500 feet of bus stop
School
Connections
No schools within a half
mile Within 0.5 mile of school Within 0.25 mile of school Within 500 feet of school
ADA
Compliance No ADA deficiencies Ramp score of 1-7 (Tiers 5
and 6)
Ramp score of 8-15 (Tiers
3 and 4)
Ramp score of 16-30 (Tiers 1
and 2)
Congestion
Relief N/A PM peak ADT per lane is
less than 1,500
PM peak ADT per lane is
between 1,500 and 1,700
PM peak ADT per lane is
between 1,700 and 1,800
Vehicle
Capacity
Project does not add
capacity
" Project adds capacity (key
words utilized can be found
in GIS methodology)
N/A N/A
Bike Capacity Project does not add
capacity
Project adds capacity (key
words utilized can be found
in GIS methodology)
N/A N/A
Pedestrian
Capacity
Project does not add
capacity
Project adds capacity (key
words utilized can be found
in GIS methodology)
N/A N/A
Final RCIPP   60

 Measure Score
0 1 2 3
Asset Management
Pavement
Condition 100 PCI 70-99 PCI 51-69 PCI <50 PCI
Signalized
Intersections No signalized intersections Good (County scored as
1)
Fair/Installed before
1995 (County scored as
2)
Poor/Failed signal
(County scored as 3)
Guardrail No slope hazard OR Guardrail
present Pass rating N/A
Fail or unknown rating
OR no guardrail in slope
hazard area
Shoulder Shoulder > 6 feet >4 but <6 feet >2 but <4 feet No shoulder
Culverts Good condition, and/or has
been installed recently
Fair/Installed 10+ years
ago
Poor/Installed 35+ years
ago
Critical/Installed 50+
years ago
Bridges
Sufficiency rating 91-100,
structure and elements in very
good condition, or does not
include bridge
Sufficiency rating 81-90
or minor to moderate
work is recommended
Sufficiency rating 51-80
or major work is
recommended
Sufficiency rating 0-50
or replacement is
recommended
Critical Roads 2nd tier snow route and
local/gravel
1st/2nd tier snow route
and local
1st/2nd tier snow route
and collector or arterial
1st tier snow route and
arterial
EM and Resiliency
Landslides Not susceptible to landslides N/A N/A Susceptible to landslides
(gridcode 9 and 10)
Earthquakes Not susceptible to high
damage area N/A N/A Heavy damage potential
(gridcode 311-478)
Wildfire Risk Not within risk area N/A N/A Within risk area
Floodplain Not within floodplain N/A N/A Within floodplain
Emergency
Response
Proximity
No emergency services within
a mile
1 emergency service
within a mile
2-3 emergency services
within a mile
4+ emergency services
within a mile
Emergency
Transportation
Routes (ETRs)
Not within ETR N/A N/A Within ETR
Important
Access
Project not on a road that
touches a state highway
Project on a local that
touches a state highway
Project on a collector
that touches a state
highway
Project on an arterial
that touches a state
highway
Sustainability
Jobs No jobs Lowest third  (1-4 jobs) Middle third (5-16 jobs) Highest third (17+ jobs)
Rural Centers
and
Opportunity
Zones
Not within rural center or
opportunity zone N/A N/A Within rural center or
opportunity zone
High Value
Lands
Not within high value habitat
lands N/A N/A Within high value
habitat lands
Important Fish
Passage
Culverts
Not regional or local AND not
5-year priority
Regional or local but not
5-year priority Local and 5-year priority Regional and 5-year
priority
Final RCIPP   61

Scoring Framework Limitations
In its development of the framework, the County worked to best address or mitigate data
limitations wherever possible. The following discussion summarizes some of the key limitations that
informed the development of the scoring framework.
1. Conceptual Status of Evaluated Projects – The projects included in the Plan are generally
conceptual level, meaning they are only broadly defined and may change as the result of
additional design efforts. Because of this, the scoring framework is developed to distinguish
projects on account of broad, rather than granular, differences. The scoring framework also
does not take into consideration the anticipated outcome of the projects since much of the
impacts have not been determined due to the conceptual nature of projects.

2. Duplicative and/or Correlated Data – Using the developed scoring framework, total scores
are based on many individual measure scores, each corresponding to a unique evaluative
question. Design of these measures, or evaluative questions, was carefully considered in
order to avoid duplication or overlap among the measures. The County employs many
sources of data to evaluate the condition of its transportation system and forecast future
needs, but many of these data sources may point to similar characteristics or needs. To
address this situation, the County vetted the measures to identify where multiple measures
might relate to duplicative or highly correlated data. To make sure that project
characteristics captured by the measures did not have a higher than desired impact on
projects’ total scores, the County eliminated or modified applicable measures or added a
counterbalancing measure. An example is the tendency of a number of the mobility
measures to result in more favorable measure scores for projects in urban areas than for
projects in rural areas. To make sure rural projects were not unfairly disadvantaged (so as to
deliver on the County’s goals to enhance its transportation system in unincorporated
communities), the Rural Centers and Opportunity Zones measure was added.

3. Insufficient and/or Incomplete Data – The County’s ability to collect applicable
transportation data can be constrained by budget and technological limitations. Therefore,
while the County prioritizes the collection of data to describe the condition of many of its
transportation assets or forecast future needs, it is not feasible for the County to collect
rigorous and detailed data on everything associated with the transportation system and its
use. These gaps in the data available were carefully considered during development of the
scoring framework. Methods used to address or mitigate these data gaps included using
subjective evaluations or using proxies to substitute for the missing data.

4. Subjective Measures – As described above, subjective measures are employed in the
scoring framework to help address data gaps, where they correspond to critical scoring
elements relating to the six criteria selected by the County. Subjective evaluations have a
number of disadvantages compared to objective evaluations, but the County sought to
mitigate these disadvantages by defining comprehensive criteria for determining the scores
for measures for which subjective evaluations are used.
Final RCIPP   62

Project Distribution
The purpose of this section is to evaluate the distribution of the 132 projects throughout
Multnomah County with regards to geographical and financial distribution, and effects to
demographic groups.
The data utilized for this analysis is the same data that is applied for the Equity criterion: U.S. Census
Bureau American Community Survey (ACS) 5-Year Estimates, 2016. The following demographics are
included within this analysis: people of color or minorities, LEP, older adults (ages 65+), children
(ages 10-17), people with disabilities, and low-income population.
The existing project descriptions are meant to provide an overview of each project; therefore, the
resulting effects (both positive and negative) of a project after completion can be assumed only to a
limited degree and are somewhat unknown. Project details will be defined more as each project
advances into its design phase. Though the complete effects are somewhat unknown, the equitable
distribution of projects, including project type and project funds, can be obtained.
The distribution of projects was analyzed based on the geographical location of each project. Three
ideas6 were developed for consideration as part of the Equity analysis and are listed in Table 5.
Table 5: Potential Ideas to Assess the Equity of Projects across the County
Analysis Idea Comparison
Measure Data Comparison**
1 Top 20*
number
Geographic area
distribution+ (west/
urban east/rural
east)
Total projects from the top 20 highest scored projects in each
area (west/urban east/rural east). This will treat line and point
projects the same.
2 Type of
project
Total number of projects by mode (if a project increases
capacity for vehicles, bikes, pedestrians) in each area (west/
urban east/rural east). This will treat line and point projects
the same.
3 Total
number
Total number of all projects in each area (west/urban east/
rural east). This will treat line and point projects the same.
* Arbitrary number to focus the equity analysis to only the top-scoring projects. Could be adjusted to be a smaller or larger number based
on the focus for top-scoring projects. | + Rough population estimates could be calculated based on census tract populations to show the
project versus population ratio as well.
**Line projects are projects with linear features, such as roadways or trails. Point projects are located at discreet points or geographical
locations, such as pedestrian crossing enhancements at an intersection or culvert locations.
After the three ideas were considered, it was decided to move forward with Analysis Idea 3. As
mentioned above, additional data was added for comparison purposes: a combination of looking at
total number of projects and how they would be distributed across the County, and the distribution
in relation to selected vulnerable population data utilized within the Equity criterion.
It is important to identify locations with high concentrations of the demographic characteristics
listed above for multiple reasons. Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 protects people from
discrimination based on race, color, and national origin in programs or activities that receive federal
funding.7 Though consideration of Title VI (race, color, and national origin) is a good start, it is also

6 One analysis idea not listed here is mileage. Because of the mix of both li ne and point-based projects, this
analysis would eliminate the point-based projects.
7 U.S. Department of Transportation - Title IV of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. § 2000d, et seq.
Final RCIPP   63

important to consider those who may be transportation-disadvantaged for one or more other
reasons, such as being too old or young to drive, or having a disability that inhibits one’s ability to
drive. Providing adequate transportation options, especially to those who rely on them the most,
will aid in creating a better transportation system that serves all and a balanced transportation
system that is capable of handling future transportation demands.
Table 6 lists the total population and percentages of populations8 within each of the three regions of
Unincorporated Multnomah County, as well as the number and percentage of each demographic
population within each region. The demographic populations are broken down and discussed by
demographic type in the following subsections.
Table 6: Demographic Summary and Number of Projects by Geographic Area
Geographic
Area
Popula
tion
Average
Equity
Score of
Projects
People of Color LEP Older Adults Children Disability Low-income
Total
Projects
(overlapp
ing
regions)
Total
Projects (
>50% in
region)
 # % # % # % # % # % # %
West 28,884 1.75 4,615 16 11,260 39 4,544 16 3,446 12 713 2 741 7 48 29
Urban East 55,087 2.33 12,023 22 19,858 36 6,310 11 6,199 11 4,059 7 3,051 15 102 52
Rural East 11,986 1.80 1,164 10 4,140 35 1,883 16 1,508 13 297 2 188 5 91 51
County Total 95,957 1.78 17,802 19 35,258 37 12,737 13 11,153 12 5,069 5 3,980 4 241 132
*Note: Population estimates include some areas outside of the County’s jurisdiction. The three different geographic areas are based on
block groups and include some incorporated areas based on project extents, but do not include any block groups fully within Portland or
Gresham.
Each project is located in one of the three regional areas listed above; therefore, the projects are
distributed throughout Multnomah County.
Table 7 shows the sum of the projects’ costs within each region and throughout the County to
illustrate the allocation of funds both throughout the County and within each regional area. As
shown, the total cost of all projects is approximately $1.3 billion. Of this, 36 percent is allocated to
the West regional area, 20 percent to the Urban East, and 44 percent to the Rural East. All dollar
amounts are shown in 2019 U.S. dollars.
Table 7: Financial Distribution and Funds per Capita throughout the County
Geographic Area Population Total Projects Total Cost
Percentage of
County Project
Costs
West 28,884 29 $479,677,319 33%
Urban East 55,087 52 $303,250,000 21%
Rural East 11,986 51 $652,420,000 46%
County Total 95,957 132 $1,435,347,319 100%

8 Percentages in the table and the following text are rounded to the nearest whole number.
Final RCIPP   64

People of Color
The evaluation of concentration of the minority populations includes all non-White populations,
including Hispanic/Latino populations, and is summarized at the regional area level in Table 8. As
shown in Table 7, 19 percent of the County’s population is minorities. Approximately 16 percent of
the population in the West regional area and 10 percent of the population in the Rural East regional
area are minorities, both of which are less than the County average. The Urban East regional area
has a minority population of 22 percent, which is approximately 3 percent higher than the County
average, and is the regional area with the largest percentage of minority populations. The Urban
East regional area is also the area with the largest number of projects.
Table 8: People of Color (Minority) Population per County Regional Area
Geographic Area Population Minorities Total Projects # %
West 28,884 4,615 16 29
Urban East 55,087 12,023 22 52
Rural East 11,986 1,164 10 51
County Total 95,957 17,802 19 132
Limited English Proficiency (LEP)
The evaluation of concentration of LEP populations includes individuals who do not speak English as
their primary language and may have a limited ability to read, write, speak, and understand English.
Identifying LEP populations is important in order to ensure that the proper resources are provided
to LEP individuals, so they are able to effectively participate in and benefit from federally assisted
projects and that project actions do not violate Title VI.
As shown in Table 8, 37 percent of the County’s population are LEP. The Rural East and Urban East
regional areas have 35 percent and 36 percent LEP populations, respectively, which are both slightly
lower than the County average. The West regional area has an LEP population of 39 percent, which
is slightly higher than the County average. All of the regional areas have levels of LEP populations
similar to one another (35 percent to 39 percent) and to the unincorporated county as a whole
(37 percent).
Table 9: Limited English Proficiency (LEP) Population per County Regional Area
Geographic Area Population Limited English Proficiency (LEP) Total Projects # %
West 28,884 11,260 39 29
Urban East 55,087 19,858 36 52
Rural East 11,986 4,140 35 51
County Total 95,957 35,258 37 132
Final RCIPP   65

Older Adults (Ages 65+)
The evaluation of concentration of older adults is based on people age 65 and older. As shown in
Table 9, 13 percent of the County’s population is older than 65 years. The Urban East regional area
has an elderly population of 11 percent, which is lower than the County average. The West and
Urban East regional areas both have elderly populations of 16 percent, which is higher than the
County average. All areas have levels of elderly populations similar to one another (11 percent to 16
percent) and to the unincorporated county as a whole (13 percent), although there is a slightly
lower percentage of elderly people in the more densely populated Urban East regional area than the
two more rural regions.
Table 10: Older Adults (Ages 65+) Population per County Regional Area
Geographic Area Population Older Adults Total Projects # %
West 28,884 4,544 16 29
Urban East 55,087 6,310 11 52
Rural East 11,986 1,883 16 51
County Total 95,957 12,737 13 132
Children (Ages 10–17)
The evaluation of concentration of children is based on ages 10 to 17. As shown in Table 10,
12 percent of the County’s population are children between these ages. The Urban East regional
area has a children population of 11 percent, which is slightly lower than the County average. The
West regional area has a children population of 12 percent, which is the same as the County
average, and the Urban East regional area has a children population of 13 percent, which is slightly
higher than the County average. All regional areas are very close to the County average, meaning
that the population of children is fairly evenly distributed throughout the County.
Table 11: Children (Ages 10–17) Population per County Regional Area
Geographic Area Population Children Total Projects # %
West 28,884 3,446 12 29
Urban East 55,087 6,199 11 52
Rural East 11,986 1,508 13 51
County Total 95,957 11,153 12 132
People with Disabilities
The evaluation of concentration of people with disabilities is based on households in which one or
more persons has a disability. As shown in Table 11, 5 percent of the County’s population has a
disability. The West and Rural East regional areas both have disabled populations of 2 percent,
which is lower than the County average. The Urban East regional area has a disabled population of
7 percent, which is slightly higher than the County average and which is the regional area with the
largest percentage of people with disabilities. This area also has the largest number of projects.
Final RCIPP   66

Table 12: People with Disabilities per County Regional Area
Geographic Area Population Disabled Total Projects # %
West 28,884 713 2 29
Urban East 55,087 4,059 7 52
Rural East 11,986 297 2 51
County Total 95,957 5,069 5 132
Low-income Population
The evaluation of concentration of low-income populations is based on the Federal Poverty Limit
from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). It defines low-income populations
as households in which household income is at or below the HHS poverty guidelines and is based on
household size. Table 12 shows the federal poverty level for one- to four-person households in
Oregon as of 2016. The year 2016 was used for consistency with other ACS data used in this RCIPP.9
Table 13: 2016 Federal Poverty Guidelines Chart - Oregon
Number of People in Household Household Income
1 $11,880
2 $16,020
3 $20,160
4 $24,300
Table 13 shows the number and percentage of low-income populations in each regional area
throughout the County. Approximately 4 percent of the County’s population is classified as low-
income. The Rural East and West regional areas have 2 percent and 3 percent low-income
populations, respectively, which are both lower than the County average. The Urban East regional
area has a low-income population of 6 percent, which is higher than the County average. The Urban
East area has the largest percentage and the largest number of low-income populations, with 6
percent of the total population for a total of 3,051 individuals, thus demonstrating that low-income
populations are more concentrated in the urban area than in the more rural areas.
Table 14: Low-Income Population per County Regional Area
Geographic Area Population Low-income Total Projects # %
West 28,884 741 3 29
Urban East 55,087 3,051 6 52
Rural East 11,986 188 2 51
County Total 95,957 3,980 4 132

9 U.S. Department of Health and Human Services – Federal Poverty Guidelines, 2016
Final RCIPP   67

Project Development and Cost Estimates
Project Development
The project list reflects transportation improvement project needs for the next 20 years and
beyond. Several internal and external means are used to identify transportation improvement
projects for this Plan update. The primary internal source of information is the FY 2014-2018 Capital
Improvement Plan and Program (CIPP). Projects included in the 2014-2018 CIPP that have been
completed have been deleted from this update. Other sources of projects include agency
Transportation System Plans (TSPs) and corridor plans. Additionally, projects recommended by the
public at meetings and input from County maintenance and engineering staff were included.
Projects from each of the plans were evaluated and either consolidated into larger, all-
encompassing roadway projects or left as stand-alone projects if their magnitude is large. Railroad
undercrossings are one example of stand-alone projects that were not consolidated with other
projects. In many cases, this meant that a single project in the RCIPP captures multiple projects from
(for instance) the ADA transition Plan, a City TSP, and a Corridor Plan. Bundling projects allows the
County to achieve maximum efficiency and cost sharing/saving when planning, designing, and
constructing together. Project Cost estimates were developed based on the new, comprehensive
projects, their descriptions, and the County’s design standards.
The consolidation of projects was completed first to develop the initial project list (Round 1). After
developing that project list, new projects were identified using new data sources (Round 2). The
details associated with each project development piece is detailed below.
Round 1. Initial Project List
In the summer of 2018, Transportation Improvement Projects from the following documents were
mapped and consolidated into one list:
1. Multnomah County CIPP (2014-18)
2. City of Gresham TSP (2015)
3. City of Fairview TSP (2016)
4. City of Troutdale TSP(2013)
5. Urban Pockets of Unincorporated
Multnomah County TSP (2006)
6. Main Streets on Halsey (2017)
7. East Metro Connections Plan (2012)
8. Multnomah County TSP (2016)
9. City of Wood Village TSP (2016)
10. Regional Transportation Plan (2014)
11. Halsey Street Corridor Study (2005)
12. 257th Avenue Enhancement Study
(1997)
13. Multnomah County ADA Transition
Plan Inventory (2017)
A number of considerations were addressed when defining projects:
• Smaller infrastructure improvements were bundled together within reasonable geographical
ranges. Some examples include culvert replacement and fish passage improvement projects,
sidewalk infill in urban, unincorporated areas, small-scale, inexpensive “safety”
improvements on a corridor such as bike and pedestrian improvements on multiple
intersections within a roadway segment, and other small-scale projects.
Final RCIPP   68

Projects were removed if they were on local non-County roads or if they were in a plan that was
superseded. Projects in urban pockets (areas expected to be annexed but are currently Multnomah
County) were included in the RCIPP The outcome of the approach above was to consolidate 592
projects from 12 plans into 132 new, consolidated projects that could be evaluated against one
another using the criteria and measures developed through the Plan update process. Figure 43
illustrates an example of multiple projects that have been consolidated into one large, all-
encompassing project.
Figure 43: Example of Consolidation of Projects into Large, Holistic Project

Round 2. Overlay/New Data
In the fall of 2018, overlay and new data was applied to the county to identify any new projects or
additional components that should be added to projects identified in Round 1. Identifying projects
based on new and overlay data bolsters the project list of previously identified projects. This allows
as many projects as possible to be identified. The following data points were considered in
identifying new projects:
• Overlay Data
o Paving overlay priority indicates whether a roadway is identified for an overlay
improvement in the near future.
o Incorporate ADA curb ramp priorities into projects previously identified in the review of
transportation documents.
o Bundling remaining ADA curb ramp projects previously identified in the review of
transportation documents.
o Add any known non-Willamette River Bridge projects previously identified in the review
of transportation documents.
• New Data
o “Failed Roads” (Roads with a PCI <50) do not provide an adequate roadway and require
extensive improvements to improve pavement quality.
Final RCIPP   69

Project Cost Assumptions
New cost estimates were developed for all 132 projects in the Capital Improvement Plan. Cost
estimates were developed using the County’s adopted Design and Construction Manual standards. It
was assumed that every capital project would be constructed to the County’s preferred roadway
standard, regardless of whether the project is a culvert replacement, a road reconstruction, or
primarily a bicycle or pedestrian improvement. The result of this approach is that the cost estimates
are higher than the prior capital improvement plan, but both the project descriptions and the cost
estimates are more realistic.
The cost estimates for all projects are “planning level” estimates, and while the estimates are at
varying levels of precision, each estimate includes engineering, right-of-way (ROW) acquisition,
construction, any necessary environmental permitting, wetland mitigation, and hazmat costs, and a
30% contingency. The cost estimates are dependent on two additional factors: scope accuracy and
engineering effort, which are outlined below.
Scope Accuracy:
• Level 1: Project scope well understood and well defined.
• Level 2: Project scope conceptual. Scope lacks detail due to potential permit requirements;
unknown project conditions; limited knowledge of external impacts.
• Level 3: Project scope is a “vision” with limited detail.
Engineering Effort:
• Level A: Preliminary engineering performed. Technical information is available, engineering
calculations have been performed; clear understanding of the materials size and quantities
needed to execute job. Schedule understood; staff and permitting is fairly clear (possibility
for further refinement). Project Development and Construction Contingencies range
between 10 and 20 percent.
• Level B: Conceptual engineering performed. Technical information is available; rough
engineering calculations may have been performed or similar information from previous
work is utilized. Project Development Contingencies range between 15 and 25 percent and
Construction Contingencies range between 20 and 30 percent.
• Level C: No engineering performed. Limited technical information available and/or analysis
performed. Project Development and Construction Contingencies should be selected
appropriately by Project Manager. Contingency may range up to 50 percent.
County Specific Cost Contingencies
In general, the cost assumptions reflect standard practice for planning level cost estimates.
However, in an effort to more accurately estimate costs, the County developed county-specific
contingencies based on an evaluation of current capital project costs. Therefore, the contingencies
are more reflective of what the County’s costs are for capital projects. Table 14 lists the cost
contingencies used when estimating each projects’ cost.
Final RCIPP   70

Table 15: Cost Contingencies for Estimating Project Costs
Cost Contingencies Percentage of Project Construction Costs
Design Engineering
40% (construction < $500k)
30% (construction $501k - $5M)
20% (construction > $5M)
CE and Inspection 20%
Right-of-Way 20% (high ROW need)
10% (low ROW need)
Hazmat 6%
Traffic Control 5% (rural project)
8% (urban project)
Tactical Asset Management Plan
Inventory of County Assets
Multnomah County maintains a network of 274 miles of roads, approximately 1,700 culverts, 22
small bridges (non-Willamette River), 46 signals and rapid flashing beacons, 7.8 miles of guardrail,
and 6 bridges spanning the Willamette River.
While the 132 capital projects listed in this plan cover 170 miles of road, they do not encompass all
the assets and replacement needs that the County has. Multnomah County has roads, bridges,
culverts, guardrail, stormwater/drainage systems, retaining structures (walls), rapid flashing
beacons, ADA ramps, and signals that are not addressed in capital projects. This could be for several
reasons: (1) the asset does not meet the cost threshold of $500,000, (2) it has not been adequately
assessed for need, or (3) it does not yet need replacement. This section focuses on the assets which
are not included in a capital improvement project in this plan.
Below is a discussion of the above assets, their level of assessment, anticipated replacement
timeline, and cost of replacing a percentage of them in the RCIPP timeframe. The cost estimates
include cost escalation to account for inflation and capture a more realistic expectation of the cost
of replacement within the timeframe.
This document does not address or identify specific funds for non-plan identified asset
replacements. This section is designed solely to inform the County’s overall need. A larger, more
comprehensive study and plan may be done in the future, which would look at actual lifespans of
assets, both locally and using national or international standards, to determine the actual time
frame for replacements.
Ongoing Asset Management Recommendations
Inventory of most assets has been completed, which informs the county of the quantity and location
of all assets. Table 16 lists the inventory progress of County assets shown in the RCIPP. The County is
responsible for condition assessments of all assets and, depending on the asset, different criteria
and/or regulations may need to be applied during the assessment. For culverts, the County develops
the condition assessment, however, for bridges and ADA ramps, a combination of County criteria
and State or Federal requirements are used during the condition assessment.
Final RCIPP   71

Table 16: Asset Inventory and Condition Assessment Progress
Asset Type Inventory Condition Assessment
Culverts (fish passage) and (in stream, non-fish passage) Complete Complete
Culverts (Non-In-Stream, Stormwater/Drainage) Complete Partially complete1
Guardrail Complete Complete
Pavement Complete Complete2
Traffic Signals and Enhanced Crossings Complete To be completed3
Bridge structures Complete Partially complete4
Storm Drainage  Complete To be completed5
1 Assessment as of summer 2018. Data analysis currently in progress. Future Stormwater/Drainage Master Plan expected to address full
storm system.
2 Pavement Condition Index (PCI) serves as a proxy for field condition.
3 To be created and added at a future date. Staff input and age of asset serve as a proxy for inventory and condition assessment.
4 Condition assessment based on ODOT sufficiency rating (how the structure is constructed) as well as other factors regarding adjacent
conditions, capacity, etc.
5 To be completed as part of future Storm Drainage Master Plan.
Culverts
The County has 1700 culverts which are categorized as fish passage, in-stream (may or may not be
fish passage), and drainage/stormwater culverts. All of the culverts have had condition assessments,
but not all have been reviewed for quality control. Generally speaking, fish passage and in-stream
culvert assessments are more likely to be accurate and complete than non-in-stream,
drainage/stormwater culverts. For all culverts, the County assumes a 60-year life span, which is
based on data for corrugated metal pipe (CMP). While not all county culverts are this type, this is
used as a proxy for all culverts until a more in-depth analysis can occur. Additionally, it is assumed
that culverts in the County are currently 40-60 years old, therefore within the RCIPP timeframe,
approximately half would need to be replaced.
Culverts (Fish Passage In-Stream, Non-Fish Passage)
Fish passage and in-stream culverts typically serve surrounding watersheds and aid in the
movement of water through constructed areas, such as under a roadway that crosses a stream that
would otherwise be unobstructed. They aim to minimize fish passage obstructions and allow natural
migration to and from the ocean. Table 17 shows the cost estimate over the course of the RCIPP
timeframe. The total cost per year in 2019 dollars is $5,104,415.
Table 17: Culvert (Fish Passage and In-Stream, Non-Fish Passage) Cost Estimate, compiled in 2019*
Timeframe Cost
2025-2029 $33,923,985
2030-2034 $41,273,715
2035-2040 $61,495,611
Total Cost  $136,693,311
*Assumptions:
1. 50 percent of assets replaced during the RCIPP timeframe.
2. 50 feet of roadway improvements necessary on each end of each culvert.
3. The earthwork necessary for construction of in-stream culverts is based on the assumption that 75 percent of the in-stream culverts
require 15 feet of embankment (measured vertically) and the remaining 25 percent require 30 feet of embankment.
4. 137 in-stream pipe culverts and seven in-stream box culverts replaced during the outlined RCIPP timeframe.
Final RCIPP   72

Culverts (Non-In-Stream, Stormwater/Drainage)
Stormwater and Drainage culverts function to remove stormwater and runoff from roadside ditches
and pass water under roadways at drainage points. Unlike In-Stream culverts, they typically collect
runoff from manmade drainage channels. Table 17 shows the cost estimate over the course of the
RCIPP timeframe. The total cost per year in 2019 dollars is $2,041,433.
Table 18: Culvert (Non-In-Stream and Stormwater/Drainage) Cost Estimate, compiled in 2019*
Timeframe Cost
2025-2029 $13,990,710
2030-2034 $17,021,838
2035-2040 $25,361,622
Total Cost  $56,374,170
*Assumptions:
1. 50 percent of the assets replaced during the RCIPP timeframe.
2. 50 feet of roadway improvements necessary on each end of each culvert.
3. 545 non-in-stream culverts replaced during the outlined RCIPP timeframe.
Guardrail
County inventory and condition assessment have determined that existing guardrail does not meet
current standards10. The County has approximately 41,140 linear feet of guardrail. For Capital
projects in locations where the county has existing substandard guardrail, the asset will be replaced
and brought up to standard. For the remaining guardrail, the County has 30 years as the
replacement cycle for this asset (all guardrail should be replaced every 30 years), therefore in the
25-29, 30-34, and 35-39 timeframe, 50% of all guardrail will be replaced. Table 18 shows the cost
estimate over the course of the RCIPP timeframe. The total cost per year in 2019 dollars is $274,984.
Table 19: Guardrail Cost Estimate, compiled in 2019*
Timeframe Cost
2025-2029 $1,884,571
2030-2034 $2,292,869
2035-2040 $3,416,251
Total Cost  $7,593,691
*Assumptions:
1. 50% of the assets replaced during the RCIPP time frame.
2. Accounts for existing guardrail; does not include non-existing, needed guardrail.

10 Cornelius Pass Road and Newberry Roads are an exception to this as they were installed as part of a recent
capital project.
Final RCIPP   73

Pavement
The County uses pavement condition index (PCI) to assess and monitor the condition of the roads.
For the 104 miles of roadways that are not included in a capital project, the cost assumption below
assumes condition will worsen over the timeframe of the plan and replacement costs grow higher as
condition worsens. Table 19 shows the cost estimate over the course of the RCIPP timeframe. The
total cost per year in 2019 dollars is $15,725,838.
Table 20: Pavement Cost Estimate, compiled in 2019*
Timeframe Cost
2025-2029 $93,035,241
2030-2034 $113,191,596
2035-2040 $168,649,380
Total Cost  $374,876,217
*Assumptions:
1. No pavement rehabilitation projects before 2025.
Traffic Signals and Enhanced Crossings
The County has 46 Traffic signals, rapid flashing beacons, and flashers. All signals in the County have
been inventoried. Condition assessment has not been completed, therefore the County uses a proxy
based on the age of the signal and staff knowledge of the condition. All rapid flashing beacons and
flashers are less than 10 years old. They have not been inventoried or condition assessed, but are
assumed to not need replacement as part of this cost estimating. Table 20 shows the cost estimate
over the course of the RCIPP timeframe. The total cost per year in 2019 dollars is $553,635.
Table 21: Traffic Signals and Enhanced Crossings Cost Estimate, compiled in  2019*
Timeframe Cost
2025-2029 $3,97,267
2030-2034 $4,616,305
2035-2040 $6,878,046
Total Cost  $11,494,351
*Assumptions:
1. 50% of assets replaced during RCIPP timeframe.
Bridge structures
The County has 21 bridge structures which include road bridges as well as large culvert structures.
Table 21 shows the cost estimate over the course of the RCIPP timeframe. The total cost per year in
2019 dollars is $1,586,486.
Table 22: Bridge Structures Cost Estimate, compiled in 2019*
Timeframe Cost
2025-2029 $10,872,787
2030-2034 $13,228,408
2035-2040 $19,709,616
Total Cost  $43,810,811
*Assumptions:
1. 50 feet of roadway improvements necessary on each end of the bridge.
2. Based on a typical roadway section of 6-inches ACP on top of 9-inches aggregate base.
3. The bridges identified as needing replacement were based on their design life year, which was assumed to be 75 years after the
original construction date.
Final RCIPP   74

Storm Drainage
The County intends to conduct a storm drainage master plan in the future. Most County storm drain
assets are undersized. Capital projects that impact a storm drain or culvert, include the cost of
replacing that asset. For storm drainage assets not associated with a capital project the county did
not develop a lifespan estimate, Instead the County used 50% as the number of assets to be
replaced in the timeframe. This is due to the likely age of the asset 60 year for CMG pipe, and the
likelihood that it was installed 40-60 years ago. Table 22 shows the cost estimate over the course of
the RCIPP timeframe. The total cost per year in 2019 dollars is $13,575,097.
Table 23: Storm Drainage Cost Estimate, compiled in 2019*
Timeframe Cost
2025-2029 $93,035,241
2030-2034 $113,191,596
2035-2040 $168,649,380
Total Cost  $374,876,217
*Assumptions:
1. 50% of assets replaced during RCIPP timeframe.
2. Drainage systems: for each new run of pipe installed, two (2) new inlets and one (1) new manhole required
Additional Assets
As mentioned, the County will need to conduct a larger and more comprehensive Asset
Management Plan as part of a future effort. However, this section provides a basis for analyzing all
of the County’s asset replacement needs. Other County assets that are included in County Capital
Projects as appropriate but that have not been fully evaluated and costed for replacement outside
of a capital project include the following:
• Cross Section analysis to determine the difference between existing cross section and
preferred cross section by functional class. The data for this task is available, but the task
should be completed after the County’s pending Design and Construction Manual update.
• Clear Zone analysis to determine if guardrail or retaining wall is needed. The data for this
has been created and a data layer is available to indicate where this is needed. Need for
guardrail is nearly ubiquitous throughout the county.
• Roadway shoulder analysis has been completed. Condition, width and material data is
available.
• Sinkholes and slides data is being collected. In addition to pavement condition index, this
information is useful to project development and determining the type of roadway
rehabilitation necessary.
Final RCIPP   75

List of projects
Based on the scoring methodology, all 132 projects were scored and ranked. Additionally, the
projects were categorized by the three sub areas of the region: West, urban East, and rural East.
Tables 23 lists each RCIPP project, including its region, score, and cost estimate11. The projects are
listed in order from the highest scoring (highest priority) to the lowest scoring (lowest priority). For a
list of project descriptions (listed by project number), see Appendix D.
Table 24: RCIPP Projects
Project Region Score Cost (2019
dollars)
500U NE 207th Avenue (Fairview Parkway): NE Glisan Street to
NE Sandy Boulevard: Arterial corridor Management (ACM)
with Adaptive Signal Timing
Urban East 51.7 $2,970,000
505U NE 238th Drive: NE Halsey Street to NE Glisan Street Urban East 51.2 $31,500,000
542U S Troutdale Road: SW Cherry Park Road to SE Stark Street Urban East 51.1 $8,490,000
538U SE Stark Street: S Troutdale Road to SE Evans Avenue Rural East 50.6 $1,980,000
517U NE Glisan Street: Fairview Parkway to NE 242nd Avenue:
Arterial Corridor Management (ACM)
Urban East 50.2 $2,940,000
537U SE Stark Street: SW 257th Avenue to S Troutdale Road Urban East 49.8 $8,210,000
109R NE Corbett Hill Road Safety Improvements Rural East 49.6 $20,870,000
507U SW 257th Avenue Pedestrian Safety Improvements
(Gresham City Limits to I-84)
Urban East 49.5 $2,650,000
533U NE Sandy Boulevard: NE 223rd Avenue to NE 238th Avenue Urban East 49.4 $8,360,000
522U NE Halsey Street: NE 238th Drive to Historic Columbia River
Highway
Urban East 49.3 $13,350,000
110R NW Cornelius Pass Road: Highway 30 - Skyline Boulevard West 48.7 $143,230,000
132R Johnson Creek Culverts of Regional Concern Urban East 48.3 $5,150,000
506U NE 238th Drive/NE 242nd Avenue/NE Hogan Drive: NE
Sandy Boulevard to NE Glisan Street: Arterial Corridor
Management (ACM) with Adaptive Signal Timing
Urban East 47.1 $250,000
121R SE Foster Road: SE Jenne Road to County Line Urban East 47.1 $3,760,000
532U NE Sandy Boulevard: Gresham City Limits to NE 223rd
Avenue
Urban East 46.2 $11,100,000
519U NE Halsey Street: NE 202nd Avenue to NE 223rd Avenue Urban East 45.8 $3,320,000
526U W Historic Columbia River Highway: NE 244th Avenue and
NE Halsey Street
Urban East 45.4 $12,390,000
514U Forest Park / SW Hills Urban Pockets Sidewalk Infill Projects West 45.4 $21,340,000
502U NE 223rd Avenue: NE Halsey Street to NE Glisan Street Urban East 45.4 $5,490,000
511U Dunthorpe Urban Pockets Active Transportation Projects West 44.8 $5,710,000
548U NE Glisan St Overlay: SE 223rd to NE 238th Urban East 44.5 $5,310,000
520U NE Halsey Street: NE 223rd Avenue to NE 238th Drive Urban East 44.4 $3,350,000
534U NE Sandy Boulevard: NE 238th Drive to Roadway Terminus Urban East 44.3 $2,740,000
535U SW Scholls Ferry Road: SW Humphrey Boulevard to SW
Patton Road
West 44.3 $21,970,000
545U Wood Village Boulevard: NE Glisan Street and NE Halsey
Drive
Urban East 44.2 $1,530,000

11 Cost estimates include engineering, right-of-way, construction, any necessary environmental permitting, wetland mitigation, hazmat,
and a 30% contingency. Cost estimates are based on preferred alternatives and in 2019 dollars.

Final RCIPP   76

Project Region Score Cost (2019
dollars)
179R SE Stark Street: SE 35th Street to Stark Street Bridge/E
Historic Columbia River Highway
Rural East 44.1 $21,210,000
513U Forest Park / SW Hills Urban Pockets Bicycle Projects West 43.7 $46,640,000
510U SE Cochran Road: SE Troutdale Road to Gresham /
Troutdale City Limits
Urban East 43.4 $4,040,000
131R SE Hurlburt Road: E Historic Columbia River Highway to SE
Littlepage Road
Rural East 43.3 $8,240,000
135R E Larch Mountain Road: E Historic Columbia River Highway
to End of Road
Rural East 42.9 $194,720,000
560U Stark Street Overlay: Gresham City Limit to SW 257th Ave Urban East 42.9 $4,060,000
157R Sandy River Tributary Culverts of Local Concern Rural East 42.8 $9,030,000
101R SE 282nd Avenue: SE Orient Drive to County Line Rural East 42.3 $1,840,000
530U NE Marine Drive - NE 223rd Avenue to Gresham City limits Urban East 42.3 $19,350,000
171R Stark Street Bridge Rural East 42.1 $19,030,000
549U Cherry Park Rd Overlay: SW 257th Avenue to SE Troutdale
Road
Urban East 41.8 $2,130,000
177R E Woodard Road: E Historic Columbia River Highway to SE
Ogden Road
Rural East 41.7 $21,740,000
543U S Troutdale Road: SE Stark to SE Strebin Road Urban East 41.5 $5,170,000
153R SE Oxbow Parkway: SE Oxbow Drive to End of Road Rural East 41.3 $10,670,000
501U NE 223rd Avenue and NE Glisan Street Intersection
Improvements
Urban East 41.0 $660,000
508U Buxton Road: Historic Columbia River E Highway to SE
Cherry Park Road
Urban East 40.9 $920,000
553U Graham Rd ADA Ramp Upgrades: E Historic Columbia River
Highway to I-84
Urban East 40.9 $530,000
552U Cherry Park Rd ADA Ramp Upgrades: NE 238th Ave to SW
257th Ave
Urban East 40.9 $1,730,000
503Ua NE 223rd Avenue: NE Sandy Boulevard to South of UPRR
Undercrossing
Urban East 40.7 $4,720,000
149R SE Orient Drive: Gresham city limits to County line Rural East 40.7 $950,000
525U E Historic Columbia River Highway Curb Extensions Urban East 40.4 $980,000
111R NW Cornelius Pass Road: Skyline Boulevard - County Line West 40.3 $11,150,000
124R SE Gordon Creek Road: SE Hurlburt Road to S curves
/Milepost 2
Rural East 40.0 $26,210,000
114R SE Division Drive: SE Troutdale Road to SE Oxbow Drive Rural East 39.9 $6,490,000
547U Historic Columbia River Hwy Overlay: approximately 632 E.
Historic Columbia River Highway to Sandy River
Urban East 39.8 $1,250,000
529U NE Marine Drive: NW Sundial Road to NE 223rd Avenue Urban East 39.8 $16,680,000
176R Tualatin River Culverts of Local Concern West 39.5 $4,410,000
136R NW Laidlaw Road: NW Thompson Road to County line West 39.5 $7,880,000
516U NE Glisan Street: NE 202nd Avenue to NE 207th Avenue Urban East 39.1 $7,560,000
133R SE Kerslake Road: SE Wilson Road to SE 302nd Avenue Rural East 38.9 $5,140,000
536U SW Scholls Ferry Road: SW Patton Road to Washington
County Line
West 38.5 $1,830,000
113R Cornell Road (all segments within County jurisdiction) West 38.2 $14,650,000
550U Jenne Rd to 174th Ave Overlay Urban East 38.2 $1,660,000
Final RCIPP   77

Project Region Score Cost (2019
dollars)
125R SE Gordon Creek Road: S curves/Milepost 2 to SE Trout
Creek Road)
Rural East 38.0 $19,000,000
170R NW Springville Road: City of Portland line to Washington
County line
West 37.9 $7,720,000
103R SE 302nd Avenue: SE Kerslake Road to SE Bluff Road Rural East 37.8 $11,980,000
116R SE Division Drive: UGB to SE Troutdale Road Rural East 37.7 $2,310,000
503Ub NE 223rd Avenue: UPRR Undercrossing to North of NE
Marine Drive
Urban East 37.6 $6,220,000
521U NE Halsey Street and Wood Village Boulevard Signal Urban East 37.5 $1,060,000
169R NW Skyline Boulevard: NW Beck Road to NW Rocky Point
Road
West 37.4 $9,330,000
528U NW Marine Drive: NW Frontage Road to NW Sundial Road Urban East 37.3 $4,130,000
163R Sauvie Island Loop Roads Shoulder Improvements West 37.2 $12,520,000
126R SE Gordon Creek Road: SE Trout Creek Road to County line Rural East 37.2 $5,450,000
118R SE Dodge Park Boulevard: SE Orient Drive to SE Pleasant
Home Road
Rural East 37.1 $3,440,000
119R SE Dodge Park Boulevard: SE Pleasant Home Road to
County Line
Rural East 37.0 $24,480,000
175R SE Troutdale Road: SE Division Drive to SE 282nd Drive Rural East 36.8 $16,200,000
138R SE Lusted Road: Gresham city limit to SE Pleasant Home
Road
Rural East 36.8 $6,550,000
546U Far Southeast Urban Pockets Active Transportation Projects Urban East 36.8 $3,820,000
509U NE Blue Lake Road: NE 223rd Avenue to NE Interlachen
Lane
Urban East 36.2 $4,180,000
199R SE Evans Road: SE Hurlburt Road to E Historic Columbia
River Highway
Rural East 35.9 $12,910,000
524U E Historic Columbia River Highway and Buxton Avenue
Intersection Signalization
Urban East 35.8 $930,000
129R SE Hosner Road: SE Hosner Terrace to SE Oxbow Park Road Rural East 35.7 $12,260,000
122R Germantown Road: NW Skyline Boulevard to County Line West 35.7 $41,827,319
105R SE Anderson State Road: SE 267th Avenue (South) to SE
267th Avenue (North)
Urban East 35.7 $1,780,000
164R NW Skyline Boulevard: NW Cornell Road to NW Greenleaf
Road
West 35.4 $1,620,000
167R NW Skyline Boulevard: NW Cornelius Pass Road to NW Rock
Creek Road
West 35.3 $31,360,000
166R NW Skyline Boulevard: City of Portland line to NW Cornelius
Pass Road
West 35.3 $2,520,000
172R SE Sweetbriar Road: SE Troutdale Road to East City Limit Rural East 34.8 $2,270,000
551U NE 242nd Dr Overlay: Cherry Park Road to Gresham City
Limit
Urban East 34.5 $1,530,000
531U NE Marine Drive and NE 223rd Avenue Intersection
Reconstruction
Urban East 34.5 $14,910,000
108R NE Corbett Hill Road/East Historic Columbia River Highway Rural East 34.3 $3,960,000
107R Columbia River Gorge Tributary Culverts of Local Concern Rural East 33.9 $4,290,000
180R SE Troutdale Road: SE Strebin Road to SE Division Drive Rural East 33.8 $10,980,000
161R NW Sauvie Island Road: NW Reeder Road to Milepost 6 West 33.8 $9,640,000
117R SE Division Drive and SE Troutdale Road Intersection Rural East 33.7 $7,600,000
Final RCIPP   78

Project Region Score Cost (2019
dollars)
159R NW Sauvie Island Road Multi-Use Path: Bridge to NW
Reeder Road
West 33.2 $4,440,000
142R SE Mershon Road: NE Ogden Road to E Historic Columbia
River Highway
Rural East 33.1 $19,870,000
158R Sandy River Tributary Culverts of Regional Concern Rural East 32.9 $4,050,000
178R SE Stark Street: Troutdale City Limits to SE 35th Street Rural East 32.6 $800,000
151R SE Oxbow Drive: SE Division Drive to SE Hosner Road Rural East 32.5 $16,380,000
541U NW Sundial Road: NW Marine Drive to 40-mile loop Urban East 32.3 $4,710,000
523U W Historic Columbia River Highway Railroad Overcrossing Urban East 32.3 $16,550,000
120R SE Foster Road at SE 172nd Avenue Urban East 32.3 $8,050,000
168R NW Skyline Boulevard: NW Rock Creek to NW Beck Road West 31.9 $2,450,000
518U NE Glisan Street Culvert (east of NE 223rd Avenue) Urban East 31.4 $2,140,000
143R SE McNutt Road: SE 252nd Avenue to SE 257th Avenue Urban East 31.3 $2,720,000
165R NW Skyline Boulevard: 50’ SE NW Kelly Circle to 750’ SE NW
Meares Drive / City Boundary
West 31.2 $2,210,000
140R SE Lusted Road: SE Cottrell Road to Clackamas County line Rural East 30.9 $26,210,000
112R NW Cornelius Pass Road and NW Skyline Boulevard
Intersection
West 30.6 $1,280,000
100R SE 267th Avenue: City of Gresham Boundary to End of Road Urban East 30.6 $2,550,000
155R SE Powell Valley Road/SE Roork Road: SE 282nd Avenue to
SE 302nd Avenue
Rural East 30.0 $5,090,000
147R SE Orient Drive/SE 282nd Avenue Intersection
Improvements
Rural East 29.8 $990,000
150R SE Orient Drive / SE Bluff Road Intersection Improvements Rural East 29.8 $2,340,000
148R SE Orient Drive / SE Dodge Park Boulevard Intersection
Improvements
Rural East 29.6 $1,920,000
137R SE Littlepage Road: SE Hurlburt Road to E Knieriem Road Rural East 29.3 $2,000,000
173R SE Telford Road: SE 252nd Avenue to Clackamas County
Line
Urban East 28.9 $4,860,000
134R E Knieriem Road: SE Littlepage Road to E Historic Columbia
River Highway
Rural East 28.8 $24,610,000
527U NE Interlachen Lane: NE Marine Drive to NE Blue Lake Road Urban East 28.7 $3,350,000
160R NW Sauvie Island Road / US Highway 30 Intersection
Upgrades
West 28.4 $100,000
128R Reconstruct Bridge #2 on SE Gordon Creek Road, the
Gordon Creek Viaduct
Rural East 27.9 $5,330,000
156R NW Reeder Road: NW Gillihan Road to Columbia County
Line
West 27.1 $7,350,000
182R NE Latourell Falls Bridge Replacement Rural East 26.4 $970,000
106R Beaver Creek Culverts of Regional Concern Rural East 26.4 $3,960,000
145R Newberry Road: US Highway 30 to City of Portland
Boundary
West 25.6 $36,100,000
139R SE Lusted Road: SE Pleasant Home Road to SE Cottrell Road Rural East 25.5 $13,080,000
174R NW Thompson Road: NW 53rd Drive to UGB West 25.5 $21,210,000
144R Multnomah Channel Tributary Culverts of Local Concern West 25.3 $5,670,000
146R NE Ogden Road: NE Mershon Road to E Woodard Road Rural East 25.3 $390,000
504U NE 223rd Avenue - North Railroad Crossing Bridge
Replacement
Urban East 24.7 $15,460,000
102R SE 282nd Avenue/SE Stone Road Turn Lanes Rural East 24.2 $440,000
Final RCIPP   79

Project Region Score Cost (2019
dollars)
127R Reconstruct Bridge #1 on SE Gordon Creek Road, over
Gordon Creek
Rural East 23.9 $6,740,000
162R NW Sauvie Island Road: Milepost 6 to the Columbia County
Line
West 23.3 $3,510,000
152R SE Oxbow Drive/SE 327th Avenue/SE Altman Road
Realignment
Rural East 21.9 $4,190,000
104R SE 302nd Avenue / SE Lusted Road / SE Pipeline Road
Intersection Improvements
Rural East 21.7 $14,120,000
115R SE Division Drive from SE Oxbow Drive to SE 317th Avenue Rural East 21.2 $4,240,000
130R SE Hosner Road: SE Lusted Road to SE Oxbow Drive Rural East 21.1 $2,900,000
123R NW Gillihan Road / NW Reeder Road Intersection Upgrades West 19.1 $10,000

Final RCIPP   80

Bridge Capital Improvement Plan and Program
This section of the plan addresses the capital needs of the six Willamette River bridges: Broadway,
Burnside, Hawthorne, Morrison, Sauvie Island, and Sellwood. With the exception of the Sauvie
Island Bridge, these bridges are located in the City of Portland and provide regional connections
between the east and west sides of the metropolitan area. Figure  shows the four downtown,
Multnomah County-operated and maintained bridges and Figure 43 shows a map with five of six
bridges. As part of the 2015 Capital Improvement Plan and Program (CIPP) Update, the Willamette
River Bridges Capital Improvement Plan (Bridge CIP) was incorporated. In 2019 the project list was
updated to reflect changes in conditions since the 2015 inspections and cost increases for projects
that were not completed in their original time period. A new five-year time period was also added at
the end of the Bridge CIP timeline and the time periods for projects were shifted based on when
they are likely to be completed. The excerpts from the Bridge CIP plan below are incorporated into
the County RCIPP. The full Bridge CIP (with all updates) is available as a separate document, and
provides more details on the projects.
 Purpose:  Multnomah County’s Bridge CIP identifies a 20-
year program of necessary capital projects and associated
funding needs to maintain and seismically retrofit the iconic
Willamette River bridges (Broadway, Burnside, Hawthorne,
Morrison, Sauvie Island and Sellwood) for the period 2020-
2039.  These bridges connect the community and currently
serve approximately 200,000 people daily.  As of 2019, the
four historic movable bridges lack the necessary seismic
resiliency to withstand moderate to major earthquakes.
This is especially true for the anticipated Magnitude 9.0
Cascadia Subduction Zone event that the Oregon
Department of Geology and Mineral Industries has
calculated as having a 37 percent chance of occurring
before 2065.
Bridge CIP Objectives:  The Bridge CIP meets the following
objectives established by Multnomah County:
• Provide a rational basis for identifying and
prioritizing capital projects.
• Establish criteria for informing program and project
selection decisions.
• Provide collaborative public and stakeholder input
for criteria selection.
• Identify needs, projects, and costs to maintain the
bridges to identified performance standards.
• Conduct a seismic evaluation to support
programmatic rehabilitation needs, projects, and
costs.
Figure 42 – Multnomah County
Operated and Maintained
Downtown Portland Bridges

Final RCIPP   81

• Develop a comprehensive understanding of the current condition of the six bridges.
• Assess life cycle and capital maintenance needs for key mechanical, electrical and structural
systems and paint.
• Obtain Board of County Commissioners (BCC) input and approval for the Bridge CIP.
Results:  The Bridge CIP currently identifies 54 capital projects with a total cost of approximately
$1.4 billion.  The Bridge CIP provides an action plan for 2020-2039 resulting in the following
outcomes:
• Dependable bridge operation
• Safe and reliable river crossings
• Enhanced seismic resiliency
• Integration of project distribution analysis within the decision making processes
• Alignment with Multnomah County’s Climate Action Plan
Costs for the projects account for inflation to a programmed year of expenditure.  Each capital
project is planned within a specified five-year time interval, as summarized in Table 25.
Table 25: Summary of Project Costs by Target Time Interval
Target Time Interval Number of Projects Cost at Target Time Interval for Construction
2020-2024 10 $751.50 million
2025-2029 16 $159.77 million
2030-2034 10 $402.47 million
2035-2039 18 $167.27 million
Bridge CIP costs summarized by bridge complex are shown in Table 26.
Table 26: Summary of Project Costs by Bridge Complex
Bridge Name Number of Projects Cost at Target Time Interval for Construction
Broadway 16 $193.97 million
Burnside 3 $684.94 million
Hawthorne 16 $227.74 million
Morrison 15 $256.22 million
Multiple 6 $112.74 million
Sauvie Island 4 $3.93 million
Sellwood 3 $1.45 million
Bridge CIP costs summarized by primary work category are shown in Table 27.
Final RCIPP   82

Table 27: Summary of Bridge CIP Costs by Primary Work Category
Performance Attribute Criteria Assessment and Ratings
In addition to considering the cost, the prioritization process considered how each bridge project
bundle rated against ten different performance attribute criteria that were derived from the
County’s values. Bridge projects were rated, receiving scores that ranged from -3 (poor
performance) to +3 (excellent performance), and every project was evaluated at each five-year time
interval.  The scores at each time interval were then compared to the score based on the bridge’s
existing condition. The higher the resulting value of this comparison, the higher the priority of the
project.
The following ten performance attributes were established for each project (in alphabetical order):
• Emergency Preparedness - An assessment of the structure’s ability to resist anticipated
seismic and flood events.
• Livable Communities - An assessment of how the improvement promotes a multimodal
community including bicyclists, transit users and pedestrians ADA compatibility) to
encourage a more livable and healthy community.
• Maintenance - An assessment of the long-term maintenance needs and the safety of
maintenance and operations staff.  Maintenance considerations include the overall
durability, longevity, and maintainability of roadway surfaces. They also include the
accessibility and safety considerations for maintenance personnel.
• Movable Operations - An assessment of the project’s ability to maintain bridge movable
operations for all modes.
• Regional Alignment - An assessment of how well the projects align with adjacent partner
agency CIP projects and regional plans, including those for emergency preparedness. (Note:
Considers input from the stakeholder engagement process.)
• Social Justice - An assessment of project impacts on services for traditionally under-served
communities (people of color, low-income, limited English proficiency (LEP), older adults,
children, and people with disabilities).  Services include schools, social services, faith-based
organizations, community centers, police/fire/justice, and food options).
• Structural Integrity - An assessment of the structural condition of the bridge based on
assessed condition. Projects include paint system rehabilitations that have the ability to
preserve the structural condition of the various steel members.
Primary Work Category Number of Projects Cost at Target Time Interval for Construction
Accessibility 6 $42.87 million
Driving Surface 5 $39.25 million
Electrical and Lighting 9 $27.21 million
Mechanical 5 $29.87 million
Paint 10 $285.79 million
Seismic 6 $885.65 million
Structural 13 $170.35 million
Final RCIPP   83

• Sustainability - Assessment of the influence of the project on:  (1) the long-term economic
well-being of the region; (2) the long-term environmental well-being of the vicinity adjacent
to the bridges; and (3) the preservation of the historic and iconic nature of the bridges.
• Traffic Operations - An assessment of the operations of motor vehicles, freight mobility,
and congestion reduction.
• User Safety - An assessment of multimodal (including river traffic) safety on the bridge
complex and its approach roadways. Safety considerations include horizontal and vertical
geometric configurations, merging or weave distances, design speeds, sight distance, lane
and shoulder widths, traffic and safety lighting, vehicle or vessel snagging, barrier rail
systems, and roadway conditions.
Final RCIPP   84

Figure 43: Willamette River Bridge Projects

Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020

Final RCIPP      85
Table 28: Bridge Projects

Project
Rank
Bridge Name(s)

Project Name
Primary  Work
Category
Target
Construction
Time
Total Cost at
Target
Construction
Time
1 Burnside Seismic Resiliency (Major Bridge Rehabilitation /
Bridge Replacement) - Environmental Impact Study
Seismic 2020–2024 $17,000,000
2 Burnside Seismic Resiliency (Major Bridge Rehabilitation / Bridge
Replacement) - Final Design and Right-of-Way (ROW) Seismic 2020–2024 $122,942,477
3 Burnside Seismic Resiliency (Major Bridge Rehabilitation /
Bridge Replacement) - Construction Seismic 2020–2024 $545,000,000
4 Morrison Bridge Painting and Structural Rehabilitation - West
Approach Paint 2020–2024 $17,352,088
5 Broadway Movable Span Deck Replacement Driving Surface 2020–2024 $4,984,731
6 Hawthorne Bridge Deck and Joint Improvements Structural 2020–2024 $10,493,304
7 Broadway, Burnside,
Hawthorne, and Morrison
Bicycle and Pedestrian Improvement Project -
Feasibility Study Phase Accessibility 2020–2024 $1,442,557
8 Morrison Motor, Brake, and Electrical Power Rehabilitation;
Operator House Improvements Mechanical 2020–2024 $4,265,529
9 Morrison Bent Cap Rehabilitation - Approach Spans Structural 2020–2024 $4,131,652
10 Morrison Painting and Structural Improvements - River Spans Paint 2020–2024 $23,883,371
11 Broadway Bridge Deck / Rail / Illumination Improvements Driving Surface 2025–2029 $14,449,244
12 Morrison Span Lock and Support Rehabilitation Mechanical 2025–2029 $4,361,957
13 Morrison Roadway Approaches, Bridge Deck Overlay, and
Illumination Improvements Driving Surface 2025–2029 $15,661,148
14 Broadway Roadway and Structural Rehabilitation Driving Surface 2025–2029 $2,665,398
15 Broadway Gate, Span Lock and Structural Rehabilitation - River Spans Electrical and
Lighting 2025–2029 $4,881,378
16 Hawthorne Bent Cap Rehabilitation - Approach Spans Structural 2025–2029 $3,814,227
17 Broadway Broadway Bridge West Approach Structural Rehabilitation
and Paint Paint 2025–2029 $26,325,997
18 Hawthorne Operating Machinery, Trunnion, and Trunnion Tower
Structural Rehabilitation Mechanical 2025–2029 $17,914,399
Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020
Final RCIPP      86

Project
Rank
Bridge Name(s)

Project Name
Primary  Work
Category
Target
Construction
Time
Total Cost at
Target
Construction
Time
19 Hawthorne Span Lock and Live Load Shoe Rehabilitation Mechanical 2025–2029 $1,031,973
20 Broadway, Burnside,
Hawthorne, and Morrison Scour Remediation Structural 2025–2029 $29,405,052
21 Hawthorne Structural Rehabilitation of Steel and Concrete Members
- River Spans Structural 2025–2029 $13,142,165
22 Sauvie Island Roadway Improvements - East Approach Driving Surface 2025–2029 $1,488,668
23 Hawthorne Joint Rehabilitation and Replacement - West and East
Approaches Structural 2025–2029 $2,384,383
24 Broadway, Burnside,
Hawthorne and Morrison
Bicycle and Pedestrian Improvement Project - Design
and Construction Phase 1 Accessibility 2025–2029 $16,319,707
25 Burnside, Broadway, and
Morrison Submarine Cable Removal Electrical and
Lighting 2025–2029 $4,552,476
26 Sauvie Island Roadway and Structural Rehabilitation Structural 2025–2029 $1,371,606
27 Hawthorne Hawthorne Bridge Limited Seismic Retrofit Seismic 2030–2034 $51,043,621
28 Broadway Broadway Bridge Limited Seismic Retrofit Seismic 2030–2034 $52,628,358
29 Morrison Morrison Bridge Limited Seismic Retrofit Seismic 2030–2034 $97,033,289
30 Hawthorne Roadway, Sign Bridge, and Illumination Improvements -
Approaches Structural 2030–2034 $38,009,187
31 Morrison Structural Rehabilitation of Steel and Concrete Pier
Members - River Spans Structural 2030–2034 $17,498,153
32 Hawthorne Paint and Structural Rehabilitation of Steel and Concrete
Members - East Approach Paint 2030–2034 $37,363,940
33 Morrison Joint Rehabilitation - West Approach, River Spans, and
East Approach Structural 2030–2034 $4,537,785
34 Broadway, Burnside,
Hawthorne, and Morrison
Bicycle and Pedestrian Improvement Project - Design
and Construction Phase 2 Accessibility 2030–2034 $16,323,533
35 Hawthorne Bridge Painting and Upgraded Lighting Paint 2030–2034 $43,328,584
36 Broadway, Burnside,
Hawthorne, and Morrison Fender Repair and Installation Structural 2030–2034 $44,701,438
37 Morrison Paint, Structural Rehabilitation, and Access Improvements
- East Approach Paint 2035–2039 $54,678,686
Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020
Final RCIPP      87

Project
Rank
Bridge Name(s)

Project Name
Primary  Work
Category
Target
Construction
Time
Total Cost at
Target
Construction
Time
38 Broadway Operating Machinery Rehabilitation and Brake
Replacement Mechanical 2035–2039 $2,300,579
39 Morrison Warning Gate and Sign Bridge Replacement Electrical and
Lighting 2035–2039 $7,277,240
40 Broadway Bridge Painting - Maintenance of 2002 Paint Project Paint 2035–2039 $66,631,927
41 Broadway Bridge Painting - Maintenance of 2015 Paint Project Paint 2035–2039 $14,891,720
42 Sellwood Lighting Maintenance Electrical and
Lighting 2035–2039 $326,903
43 Broadway Electrical System Master Control Switch Installation and
Miscellaneous Operator House Improvements

Electrical and
Lighting
2035–2039 $307,377
44 Hawthorne Installation of Remote Operation and Monitoring Equipment Electrical and
Lighting 2035–2039 $2,063,574
45 Hawthorne ADA Improvements
Accessibility 2035–2039 $3,472,729
46 Sellwood Joint Rehabilitation and Replacement
Structural 2035–2039 $353,055
47 Morrison ADA Improvements
Accessibility 2035–2039 $3,472,729
48 Broadway ADA Improvements
Accessibility 2035–2039 $1,841,966
49 Sauvie Island Under-bridge Maintenance Traveler System
Structural 2035–2039 $510,786
50 Morrison Installation of Remote Operation and Monitoring
Equipment
Electrical and
Lighting 2035–2039 $2,063,574
51 Broadway Installation of Remote Operation and Monitoring
Equipment
Electrical and
Lighting 2035–2039 $2,063,574
52 Sauvie Island Routine Maintenance and Bridge Painting Paint 2035–2039 $560,741
53 Sellwood Bridge Maintenance Painting Paint 2035–2039 $774,760
54 Hawthorne Warning and Barrier Gate Rehabilitation Electrical and
Lighting 2035–2039
$3,674,718

Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020
Final RCIPP      88

This page intentionally left blank.
Final RCIPP  89
Capital Improvement Program
Purpose
The Roadway Capital Improvement Plan included several steps to develop one consolidated and
prioritized list of projects. The project list was developed based on existing plan projects, new data
collected through the LiDAR scan, and conversations with partners and the public. This new list was then
run through a comprehensive prioritization process that was created based on the County’s vision and
goals. The result of this process is a Capital Improvement Plan representing more than 20 years of future
project needs. While this plan refers to the “20 year timeline” or the “20 year need”, it is clear that the
needs represent more projects than the County can afford to construct in that timeframe.
The Capital Improvement Plan identifies and scores all project needs for Multnomah County’s
transportation system, while the Capital Improvement Program identifies anticipated revenue and
schedules projects for construction for a 5-year period. In this update, the 5 year program represents
Fiscal Years 2020 – 2024. It includes projects that are currently underway by the County.
Constantly changing community needs will alter County transportation program priorities over time
before all projects can be constructed. The Transportation Capital Improvement Program is reviewed by
the Transportation Division staff on an annual basis with full reviews including public input on a biennial
basis. The 2020 – 2024 Capital Improvement Program is based on the best available revenue and cost
information. It reflects a program of projects that are in various states of delivery. The 20-year list of
needs does not have to be constrained by available revenue, however the Program reflects what known
revenue the County has to design and, in most cases, construct. The total cost of projects in the Program
update is $40.4 million.
The total capital need identified in the Transportation Capital Improvement Plan for the 132 candidate
projects totals more than an estimated $1.35 billion.
Funding Influences and Decisions
The prioritized list of projects is a reflection of the order in which projects would be delivered if limitless
resources existed and no emergencies or other mitigating factors occurred. However, it is necessary to
be responsive to issues and funding opportunities that arise. Below are examples of mitigating factors
that may act as a catalyst in project development and construction.
• Natural Disasters: Examples include landslides, wildfires, and other natural disasters affecting
County assets. In the recent past, capital projects have been prioritized in rural west Multnomah
County in response to landslides. These include Newberry and Germantown roads.
• Development: Sometimes development projects trigger improvements by the County. An
example of this is recent bulb-outs on the Historic Columbia River Highway in the City of
Troutdale. Development occurred on the south side of the road and a condition of the
development was to install bulb-outs on the south side of the road. In order to be ADA
compliant, the County installed bulb-outs on the north side.
• Cost Sharing: County partners’ jurisdictions sometimes complete projects that the County is able
to “piggyback” on for cost savings. Recently the City of Fairview provided funding and
coordination services to work with the Railroad on developing a project on 223rd Street (County
Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program
Update

 2020
Final RCIPP  90
road) under the railroad bridge. As a result of these resources, the County is working with the
City on the project development.
• Public Input and Safety: Multiple complaints, enforcement, or safety issues force work to be
elevated. We try to be responsive to concerns and issues when they are raised. We have a
website for this (https://multco.us/roads/report-hazardous-road-conditions) and a web-based
app where you can report issues. The County tracks this information to understand where
recurring problems are noted. When possible, the County pursues low-cost improvements to
address concerns.
• Grant Availability:  Projects may be eligible for grants depending upon their location and their
components. For instance, there is a roadway overlay project on Larch Mountain Road that is
funded with a Federal Lands Access Program grant. This is unique to this location as Larch
Mountain accesses Federal Lands. The County also has a Regional Flexible Fund Allocation grant
from Metro for bicycle, pedestrian, and vehicular improvements on Stark Street between 257th
Street and Troutdale Road. This is a fund source that is available within the urban growth
boundary.

Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020
Final RCIPP      91

Five-Year Capital Improvement Program
The total cost of the roadway projects listed on the Program update is $40.4 million. The breakdown over the next 5 year cycle (2020-2024) is
shown below in Table 29.
Table 29: 5-Year Capital Improvement Program

Multnomah County // Capital Improvement Projects for 2020-24
NW Germantown Rd slide repair U 1 $251K $226K $25K
Newberry Rd slide repair U 1 $990K $884K $106K
Arata Rd U 4 $7.35M $2.08M $5.27M
NE 238th Dr U 4 $8.39M $7.52M $868K
NE Cochran Rd Culvert R 4 $3.14M $579K $2.56M
NW Cornelius Pass Rd R 1 $4.24M $4.20M $45K
Sandy Blvd sidewalk infills (201st-207th) U 2 $275K -- $275K
SE 267th Ave Culvert R 4 $995K $650K $345K
Offsite mitigation (from Sandy Blvd project) U 2 $475K -- $475K
SE Stark St Improvements U 4 $4.71M $3.52M $1.19M
NE Latourell Rd Bridge R 4 $1.49M $1.14M $355K
Overlays U/R -- $1.80M -- $1.80M
E Larch Mountain Rd Overlay R 4 $3.52M $3.15M $370K
ADA Tier 1 First 20% (Design Only) -- -- $500K -- -- Design Only
TOTAL ROADS $38.1M $23.9M $14.2M
Broadway Rall Wheel Replacement U 1 $628K $64K $564K
Burnside Rehabilitation U 1 $9.93M $1.02M $8.91M
Morrison Paint U 1 $26.4M $2.71M $23.7M
Morrison PLC Replacement U 1 $366K -- $366K
Burnside PLC Replacement U 1 $366K -- $366K
Broadway PLC Replacement U 1 $366K -- $366K
Hawthorne PLC Replacement U 1 $366K -- $366K
Hawthorne Approaches Overlay U 1 $8.54M $878K $7.67M
Morrison East Approaches Strengthening U 1 $7.70M $791K $6.91M
Broadway Lift Span Deck Replacement U 1 $3M $308K $2.70M
TOTAL BRIDGES $57.7M $5.77M $51.9M
2023 2024
Anticipated Construction Timing
2019 2020 2021 2022
County
Funds
Bridges Project Name
Roads Project Name Urban/
Rural District Total Project
Cost
External
Grant Funds
Roadway Capital Improvement Plan and Program Update     2020
Final RCIPP      92

This page intentionally left blank.