BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON

RESOLUTION NO. 2025-067

Resolution Reaffirming and Strengthening the County’s Sanctuary Status, Actions,
and Advocacy.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
A. Multnomah County rejects the blatant xenophobic rhetoric, tactics and
fearmongering meant to divide our communities on the basis of place of birth. We
remain committed to supporting all those who live here and who are working to
make Multnomah County thrive.

B. Generations of immigrants from all corners of the globe have been essential to
this country’s economic and cultural strength and resilience. Whether they
arrived centuries ago or more recently, immigrants have helped build our
infrastructure, fuel innovation, and create our prosperity. Immigrants contribute to
Multnomah County’s economy, agriculture, cuisine, and health care; they run
political organizations, start and operate businesses, employ hundreds of
thousands of Oregonians, and represent us at almost every level of elected
office.

C. Every person deserves to be free of fear and intimidation, the right to due
process, and to be treated with dignity and respect regardless of their status in
the United States.

D. Multnomah County is home to individuals who represent a wide diversity of
races, ethnicities, and nationalities, including immigrants and refugees from all
over the world.

E. Across the nation, recent political events have continued to spur and build a
climate of xenophobia, racism, hatred, bigotry, and discrimination toward many in
our communities. People have expressed fears regarding their ability to access
Multnomah County government services and properties such as, but not limited
to, our courthouses, health clinics, libraries, homeless shelters, domestic
violence services, jails, and SUN school programming.

F. Federal immigration enforcement presence outside of County buildings and
program locations, and attempts to enter those spaces, have disrupted
community members' access to services and programs and County staff from
providing services. The deterioration of trust in one aspect of government and
active hostility jeopardizes trust in other aspects of government, including the
provision of other County services.

G. The integrity of Multnomah County’s sanctuary status commitment requires
action, continuous efforts, training, and institutional alignment with the County's
core values of diversity, equity, and inclusion.

H. Oregon became the first Sanctuary State in 1987 and has continued to
strengthen its sanctuary laws, most recently through the 2021 Sanctuary Promise
Act (HB 3265), which reinforces Oregon's commitment to protecting immigrant
and refugee communities through (ORS 181A.820), which prohibits the use of
public resources for the enforcement of federal immigration law.

I. On December 22, 2016, Multnomah County Board of Commissioners adopted a
resolution (2016-132) reaffirming Multnomah County’s sanctuary status and
ensuring continued access to County resources and services regardless of
immigration status.

J. On January 20, 2025 the Trump Administration rescinded an October 2021 U.S.
Department of Homeland Security policy memo that protected spaces such as
schools, houses of worship, and hospitals from immigration enforcement,
replacing it with a directive to sow fear and terror in communities by giving
Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents authority to take
enforcement actions in any of these spaces.
K. The federal administration has made sweeping changes to immigration policies
such as revoking access to social services and work visas, ending safety net
programs, and eroding due process for immigrant and refugee community
members.

L. Recent federal legislation signed by President Donald Trump significantly
expands civil immigration enforcement and detention practices that undermine
community trust. Additionally, President Trump has continued to threaten the
unconstitutional deployment of the National Guard to further target sanctuary
jurisdictions including Portland.

M. Reported and alleged conduct of ICE agents includes: arresting and detaining
individuals without affording due process rights; refusing to share information
about the reason for an individual’s arrest or the location where an individual will
be detained; wearing masks and refusing to provide identification; injuring
community members and destroying property, and; questioning residents and
visitors about their immigration status based on their race, ethnicity, language,
accent, occupation, or presence at certain locations, such as day-labor sites, bus
stops, car washes, and parking lots. These actions cause community-wide
trauma and damage.

N. Keeping families together, and children protected and safe is a fundamental
value for Multnomah County. Mass deportation and revoking status efforts,
especially without due process, threaten the well-being of Multnomah County
families and neighborhoods, harm vulnerable populations, cause economic pain
and hardship, and interfere with businesses and day-to-day life across the
County.

O. On October 28, 2025, at the direction of the Chair, Multnomah County moved to
Partial Activation of the Emergency Operations Center (EOC) to ensure the
coordination of operations between County offices and departments, promote
alignment on internal and external communications, and further the role that
Multnomah County has to leverage, coordinate, and deploy critical resources in
response to federal policies and actions.

P. On November 18, 2025, the Multnomah County Board of Commissioners
received a briefing on the County’s existing sanctuary status resolution and an
update on actions and examples from other local jurisdictions. The Board
provided direction to support a clear set of actions in the form of a Resolution,
Budget Modification to allocate funds, and an Ordinance to codify certain
provisions into County code.

Q. In the wake of unconstitutional and unlawful federal immigration policies and
practices that have generated fear and anxiety among members of the County’s
many communities, it is necessary to do more.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves to:
1. Reaffirm and declare its commitment to equity and respect for all community
members by ensuring and affirming they are able to continue accessing County
resources and services regardless of their immigration status.

2. Encourage the continued work of the Office of Government Relations to advocate
for the passage of federal legislation that would increase federal safeguards for
respecting civil rights and protecting the public safety of our community along
with identifying changes in policy that will impact the County and its immigrant
and refugee community members.

3. Recognize the work initiated by the activation of the EOC and support the
continued coordination of internal and external partners to share information,
monitor federal enforcement actions, track changes in federal immigration
policies, and incorporate feedback into existing programs to develop and
maintain rapid response networks for communication, outreach, and community
support.

4. Support the Chair in directing the Chief Financial Officer to work with internal
partners to identify methods to provide flexibility (within existing contracts) to
service providers regarding impacts such as, but not limited to, food access,
basic services, and legal services. Impacted providers will be contacted, with
relevant changes being incorporated no later than February 16, 2026. The goal is
to address changing needs for affected families. All procurement and contract
rules, conditions, and reporting requirements will be followed.

5. At the direction of the Chair, the Chief Operating Officer will report to the Board
no later than February 16, 2026 on: specific actions that departments have
implemented or may take to ensure that all residents can access necessary
services and programs, regardless of immigration status; adjusting programs and
services to meet community needs such as virtual options.

6. At the direction of the Chair, the Chief Operating Officer will report to the Board
no later than February 25, 2026 on: specific actions the County is taking or
evaluating to implement programs, policies, and resources that protect and
support employees who are impacted by the federal immigration policies and
enforcement.

7. At the direction of the Chair, the Chief Operating Officer will coordinate the
drafting of an ordinance for Board review no later than February 25, 2026. The
Board further requests a report on the implementation viability, cost, and timing
of provisions including but not limited to:
A. Prohibition of County funds for aiding in the enforcement of federal
immigration law.
B. Prohibition of all County departments and employees, including law
enforcement, from assisting in or coordinating with federal agencies and
military in actions intended to suppress lawful protest, peaceful assembly,
or protected political expression.
C. Clarification on the steps that are taken with detainment and custody when
interacting with federal immigration law enforcement, and the notification
process for impacted individuals and their families.
D. Clarification of what areas are off limits to federal law enforcement officials
without legal requirements being met, and a proposal to implement
“restricted area” signage and training for County employees.
E. Clarification on how data on immigration status is currently stored, shared
and disclosed to federal immigration officials. This includes an
examination of existing Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request
systems, administrative subpoenas, or other non-judicial compulsory legal
processes.

F. A proposal for a routine and updated training on the County’s Sanctuary
status and individual rights that can be provided to County employees,
contracted providers, and external community members.
ADOPTED this 18th day of December, 2025.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By
    Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney
SUBMITTED BY:  Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
 Shannon Singleton, Commissioner, District 2