BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
PROCLAMATION NO. 2022-096
Proclamation Recognizing the 25th Anniversary of Oregon Death with Dignity Act.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
A. Oregon has long recognized that adult, terminally ill individuals have a
fundamental right to determine their own medical treatment options as they near the end
of life, free from coercion and in accordance with their own values, beliefs or personal
preferences.
B. Multnomah County recognizes that the choices a person makes at the end of life
should be inalienably grounded in that individual person’s own life experiences and
values.
C. Advances in science and technology have created medical interventions that
often prolong the dying process and increase suffering.
D. Terminally ill individuals may undergo pain, suffering and an irreversible reduction
in their quality of life in their final days, and only the individual can determine whether
their suffering is unbearable.
E. Oregon was the first jurisdiction in the United States to authorize medical aid in
dying, with the Oregon Death with Dignity Act taking effect on October 27th, 1997.
F. Since 1997, 468 residents of Multnomah County have utilized the Oregon Death
with Dignity Act, according to the Oregon Health Authority’s 2021 Death with Dignity Act
Annual Report.
G. Oregonians' political courage in passing the Oregon Death with Dignity Act
transformed the end-of-life movement, and paved the way for medical aid in dying to
become an end-of-life option in a growing number of jurisdictions (Oregon, Washington,
Montana, Vermont, California, Colorado, Hawaii, New Jersey, New Mexico, Maine and
the District of Columbia) for mentally capable, terminally ill adults with six months or less
to live to get prescription medication they can decide to take peacefully to end
unbearable suffering.
H. Medical aid in dying provides comfort and peace of mind to dying people by
providing a safe, compassionate alternative to unnecessary pain and suffering
regardless of whether they choose to utilize the law.
I. Medical aid in dying improves end-of-life care, and since the law was
implemented in Oregon, the quality of end-of-life care, pain management and hospice
services have all greatly improved.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
1. Multnomah County supports the right of individuals to access the full range of
end-of-life options, including medical aid in dying, in accordance with their own values,
beliefs, and priorities.
2. Multnomah County commemorates the 25th anniversary of the implementation of
medical aid in dying in Oregon, and celebrates the advocates, terminally ill individuals,
policymakers, and all others who worked to pass and defend the Oregon Death with
Dignity Act.
ADOPTED this 3rd day of November, 2022.
SUBMITTED BY:  Deborah Kafoury, Chair
     Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Deborah Kafoury, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By