iləp kʰapa uk board of county commissioners pus multnomah county oregon hayash-wawa pipa kʼwinin-tʼsəm: 2022-092  BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON  PROCLAMATION NO. 2022-092  hayash-wawa kʰapa October 10, 2022 kakwa shawash-tilixam-hayash-san kʰapa Multnomah County Oregon.  Proclaiming October 10, 2022 as Indigenous Peoples’ Day in Multnomah County, Oregon.  uk multnomah county board of commissioners ɬaska tʼɬap kakwa:  The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:  A. hayu xluyma ̣ shawash-tilixam ɬaska kəmtəks uk nim kʰapa uk iliʔi kakwa iɬagwa-tənəs-iliʔi. xluyma ̣ tilixam ɬaska kəmtəks uk bastən nim kʰapa uk iliʔi kakwa united states. kwansəm anqati uk shawash tilixam ɬaska miɬayt kʰapa ukuk iliʔil yakwa. uk kimtəks pi yaʔim kʰapa ɬaska munk kʰanawi tilixam manaqi skukum alta.  The Native American, Alaskan Native and Indigenous heritage of Turtle Island, or what we now call the United States extends since time immemorial and is a vital influence in our country’s prosperity.  B. uk united states iliʔi ukuk kakwa uk iliʔi kʰapa shawash-tilixam pi ɬaska anqati tilixam. xluyma ̣ masachi tilixam ɬaska chaku pi kapshawla ukuk iliʔi kʰapa uk shawash-tilixam. wəxt ɬaska kapshwala ɬiʔil-tilixam pi munk ɬaska mamuk hayu pus bastən-tilixam. hayu nsayka ikta chaku-hilu kiwa bastən tilixam ɬaska munk masachi ikta. hayu nsayka anqati-tilixam ɬaska chaku hilu pi wəxṭ hayu tʼsək chaku-hilu pi wəxṭ hayu lalang chaku-hilu pi wəxṭ hayu tənas chaku-hilu pi wəxṭ nsayka ul-shawash-uyxat-ikta ̣ chaku-hilu. kʰənəx̣ wik kʰanawi shawash ikta chaku-hilu. bastən tilixam dret tiki uk masachi ikta kakwa ɬaska chaku manaqi skukum. kʰa bastən-tilixam ɬaska munk masachi ikta kʰapa shawash-tilixam alta.  The United States rests on the ancestral territory of the Indigenous Tribal Nations of this region and their homelands and villages with the stolen labor of our African siblings; and we acknowledge the multi-generational loss of life, loss of land, loss of water and waterways, loss of language, loss of children, and loss of culture due to the historical and ongoing colonization of this land that perpetuate the current structural barriers that impact the Native quality of life.  C. uk nim multnomah chaku kʰapa uk chinuk-tilixam. anqati multnomah ɬakʼamas chinuk-tilixam ɬaska míɬayt kʰapa ukuk iliʔi. liiiliii anqati ɬaska miɬayt yakwa iləp uk bastən tilixam ɬaska chaku. alta xluyma ̣ tilixam ɬaska miɬayt kʰapa uk iliʔi kakwa iliʔi qʰa uk multnomah ɬakʼamas-chinuk-tilixam ɬaska miɬayt anqati. nsayka kəmtəks uk dret xluyma-tilixam ̣ nsayka kʰapa ukuk iliʔi. nsayka kəmteks kakwa chachalu anqati-tilixam kʰapa shawash-iliʔi-tilixam ɬaska iliʔi ukuk. chachalu shawash-iliʔi-tilixam ɬaska anqati-tilixam munk-tʼuʔan ukuk iliʔi iləp kʰapa uk xluyma ̣ tilixam ɬaska chaku. Our name, “Multnomah,” is derived from the Multnomah who are a band of the Chinookan people and we conduct daily business on Indigenous soil. We recognize that we are occupants, guests, and stewards of this land, originally cared for by bands of the Confederated Tribes of Grand Ronde.  D. lili anqati shawash-tilixam ɬaska miɬayt kʰapa ukuk iliʔi. hilu tilixam ɬaska kəmtəks qʰənchi-lili anqati ɬaska miɬayt yakwa. ɬaska anqati-tilixam tʼuʔan hayu kimtəks pi lalang pi ɬaska kəmtəks qʰata-pus munk hayu ikta ɬush kʰapa iliʔi. kʰa ɬaska yaʔim pi uk ikta ɬaska wawa uk munk manaqi ɬush ikta kʰapa tilixam pi iliʔi alta.
Indigenous Peoples and Nations have lived here since time immemorial with their own knowledge,
languages, relationships with the environment, advocacy, science, philosophy, arts and culture. Their
historical and present day contributions, relationships, history, and advocacy continue to shape the
character of our region.
E. kʰa nsayka miɬayt. kʰapa shawash-tilixam-hayash-san ɬush nsayka munk-kimtəks
uk shawash-tilixam pi qʰata ɬaska munk ikta. ɬush nsayka munk-kimtəks
shawash-tilixam ɬaksta miɬayt kʰapa multnomah county alta. wəxṭ ɬush nsayka
munk-kimtəks ɬaska anqati tilixam pi qʰata ɬaska miɬayt anqati.
We are still here. Indigenous Peoples' Day is an opportunity to acknowledge and
celebrate the thriving traditions and deeply rooted values of the Indigenous Peoples
who reside in Multnomah County and their ancestors before them.
F. By honoring and celebrating our region’s first peoples, we are reclaiming a piece of history and ancestral
wisdom, and choosing to no longer observe a time of genocide.
pus nsayka munk-kimtəks kʰapa shawash-tilixam alta nsayka chaku-kəmtəks ɬush ikta kʰapa ɬaska yaʔim
pi anqati-kimtəks. pus nsayka munk-kakwa alta aɬqi wik shawash-tilixam ɬaska chaku-hilu wəxt.
uk multnomah county board of commissioners ɬaska munk hayash-wawa kakwa:
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
October 10th, 2022 kakwa shawash-tilixam-hayash-san ukuk pus multnomah county oregon. dret nsayka
munk-kimtəks kʰanawi uk ikta shawash-tilixam ɬaska munk kʰapa kʰanawi uk tilixam yakwa. nsayka tiki uk
manaqi-hayu x̣luyma tilixam ɬaska chaku-kəmtəks uk shawash-tilixam-hayash-san. wəx̣t ɬush ɬaska chaku-
kəmtəks uk shawash-iliʔi yaʔim. kʼuy aɬqi ɬaska munk-kəmtəks manaqi-hayu x̣luyma tilixam kʰapa uk shawash-
iliʔi yaʔim.
October 10th, 2022 as Indigenous Peoples’ Day in Multnomah County, Oregon, to honor and celebrate the
many contributions made by the Indigenous peoples throughout our vibrant community. We encourage other
businesses, organizations, public institutions and community members to recognize Indigenous Peoples' Day,
and to take time to learn and teach others around the history and cultural significance of our county and
Indigenous community.
ADOPTED this 6th day of October, 2022.
SUBMITTED BY: Kim Melton, Chief of Staff, Chair’s Office
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Deborah Kafoury, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By
     Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney