BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
PROCLAMATION NO. 2024-026
Declaring the Month of April as “Second Chance Month” in Multnomah County, Oregon.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. Every person is endowed with human dignity and value.
b. Individuals with a criminal history often struggle to find housing, secure
employment, pursue higher education, regain voting rights, volunteer in their
community, and pay for significant debt that arises as a result of their conviction
and incarceration.
c. Last year, there were approximately 2,900 individuals on post -prison supervision
in Multnomah County.
d. Multnomah County has a responsibility to build and maintain the infrastructure that
supports people repairing harm, rebuilding their lives, and becoming productive
members of society.
e. The Department of Community Justice provides services and information to
individuals returning to their community through supervision, culturally responsive
services, programmatic activities, outreach, and restorative practices to increase
positive behavior change and reduce disparities.
f. The Department of Community Justice relies on partnerships and collaborations
with community partners to enhance our effectiveness in meeting the needs of
justice involved individuals.
g. The designation of April as Second Chance Month contributes to increased public
awareness about the need for support and closure for those who have paid their
debt, and opportunities for individuals, employers, and communities to extend
second chances.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
The month of April 2024, is declared Second Chance Month in Multnomah County,
Oregon to honor reentry efforts in our community that support individuals making the
challenging transition back into society from incarceration.
ADOPTED this 25th day of April, 2024.
SUBMITTED BY: Erika Preuitt, Director, Department of Community Justice.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY , OREGON
Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY , OREGON
By
Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney