BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS FOR
MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
PROCLAMATION NO. 2021-070
Proclaiming September 15 through October 15, 2021, as Hispanic and Latinx  Heritage
Month in Multnomah County, Oregon.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. Multnomah County has been home to people who identify as Hispanic, Latino, Latinx,
Chicano or indigenous from Mexico, Central or South America for over 100  years. In
the 1920 census, 37 Mexicans were listed as living in Multnomah County.
b. Members of the Latinx community in Multnomah County include people whose families
have been here for generations and some of the newest members of our community.
Recent census data shows that people of Hispanic origin are among the fastest
growing populations in Oregon and are estimated to make up close to 13% percent of
Multnomah County’s population.
c. Latinx residents in Multnomah County contribute to our culture and arts as singers,
performers and writers. They help drive our small business economy as workers,
business owners and entrepreneurs. They enrich our academic environment as
teachers, professors and engineers. They are driving social and political change as
advocates, activists and elected officials. They ensure our health and community as
nurses, doctors, caretakers and childcare workers.
d. Many jobs and professions that are classified as “frontline workers” during the COVID-
19 pandemic contain workforces with large numbers of Latinx people, including but not
limited to: medical professionals, teachers, grocery store workers, farmworkers, and
other jobs that are critical to a functioning society. In these last eighteen months, our
broader community has been held up by the contributions of Latinx essential workers.
e. The COVID -19 pandemic has disproportionately affected the Latinx community in
Multnomah County. Latinx residents comprise 13 percent of Multnomah County’s
population, but have accounted for 20 pe rcent of COVID-19 cases. Additionally, only
46.5% of eligible Latinx individuals are vaccinated, making it the least vaccinated group
in Multnomah County compared to other races and ethnicities.
f. Multnomah County, community -based organizations, and cultu rally-specific health
clinics are working tirelessly to reach this underserved and at -risk population. Efforts
to make the COVID-19 vaccine more accessible, for example, translating materials into
Spanish, providing incentives to cover the costs of transpo rtation or child care, and
setting up vaccine clinics in areas of Portland where undervaccinated populations live,
are all helping to increase rates of vaccination among Latinx people.
g. Latinx employees make up 10 percent of Multnomah County’s workforce. The
approximately five hundred Latinx County employees allows us to better serve our
community by bringing multilingual and multicultural capacity to our workforce.
h. Multnomah County takes great pride in the growing diversity of our community and in
the impressive and valuable contributions made by our Latinx residents to the County's
growth, prosperity and well-being.
i. Latinx Heritage Month celebrates and recognizes the contributions that  the Latinx
communities in the United States have made to society and culture. This month, we
honor the rich heritage of Latinx communities and celebrate their countless
achievements.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
1. September 15 through October 15, 2021 as Hispanic and Latinx Heritage Month in
Multnomah County, Oregon, in recognition and celebration of the many contributions
of Latinx residents to the County and our community.
2. We call upon all residents of Multnomah County to celebrate the history and recognize
the contributions of Latinx residents to our community, state, and nation.
ADOPTED this 9th day of September, 2021.
SUBMITTED BY: Commissioner Jessica Vega Pederson, District 3
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Deborah Kafoury, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By
     Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney