BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
PROCLAMATION NO. 2021-080
Proclaiming October 2021 as National Cyber Security Awareness Month in Multnomah
County, Oregon
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. Counties recognize the vital roles they play in identifying, protecting its community
members from, and responding to cybersecurity threats that may have significant
impact to our individual and collective safety and privacy; and
b. Critical infrastructure (i.e., financial services, educational institutions, energy,
telecommunications, transportation, utilities, health care, and emergency response
systems, etc.) is increasingly reliant on the support of information systems and
technology; and
c. Cybersecurity education and awareness is crucial for everyone, including large
corporations, small businesses, financial institutions, schools, government agencies, the
home user, and anyone who connects to the internet, be it with a computer, mobi le
phone, or other internet-connected device; and
d. Monitoring your accounts, being conscientious of what you share online, keeping
computer software up to date, creating unique passwords and changing them regularly,
installing antivirus programs and firewa lls, and using mobile devices and other internet -
connect devices safely are ways people and organizations can protect themselves from
phishing, viruses, ransomware, other types of malware, financial loss, and loss of
sensitive data; and
e. We showcase the nee d to inspire, engage, and inform the public about the demand,
opportunities, and career options available within the area of cybersecurity and highlight
how building the nation’s and Multnomah County’s cybersecurity workforce enhances
the nation’s security and promotes economic prosperity; and
f. Multnomah County is dedicated to providing every individual and public and private
organization in Multnomah County the resources necessary to ensure the
understanding, implementation, and success of Cybersecurity Awareness Month to help
the residents of Multnomah County stay safe online and connect with confidence; and
g. The STOP. THINK. CONNECT.™ Campaign serves as the national cybersecurity public
awareness campaign, implemented through a coalition of private companies, nonprofit,
government organizations, and academic institutions working together to increase the
public’s understanding of cyber threats and empowering Americans to be safer and
more secure online; and the National Institute of Standards and Tech nology (NIST)
Cybersecurity Workforce Framework is a free resource to help organizations (both large
and small, public, and private) improve their cybersecurity practices through a practical
approach to addressing the ever-evolving cybersecurity threats and challenges; and
h. Maintaining the security of cyberspace is a shared responsibility in which each of us has
a critical role to play, and awareness of essential cyber hygiene will improve the security
of Multnomah County, Oregon’s information, infrastructure, and economy; and
i. The County Cyber Security Program was established in April 2018 to enhance and
protect the Multnomah County, Oregon’s cybersecurity ecosystem; and
j. The Federal Government of the United States of America, the U.S. Department of
Homeland Security’s Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency ( www.cisa.gov),
the Multi-State Information Sharing and Analysis Center ( https://www.cisecurity.org/ms-
isac), the National Association of State Chief Information Officers (www.nascio.org), and
the National Cyber Security Alliance ( www.staysafeonline.org) all recognize October as
Cybersecurity Awareness Month; and all citizens are encouraged to visit these
websites, and the STOP. THINK. CONNECT.™ Campaign website
(www.cisa.gov/stopthinkconnect or www.stopthinkconnect.org) to learn about
cybersecurity to put that knowledge into practice in their homes, schools, workplaces,
and businesses;
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
1. October 2021 as Cybersecurity Awareness Month.
ADOPTED this 21st day of October, 2021.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Deborah Kafoury, County Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By________________________________
 Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney