BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
RESOLUTION NO.  2024-110
Approving the FAC-1 Project Plan to Proceed with Construction at the Harrison Community
Village Project:
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
A. In December of 2022, Multnomah County acquired what is now known as the Harrison
Community Village, a former commercial retail space in Southeast Portland, located at
1818 SE 82nd Ave., Portland, OR 97216, for $2.015 million. The site improvements will
provide shelter and social services for adult singles and couples experiencing
homelessness in Multnomah County (the “Project”).
B. In design collaboration with the Joint Office of Homeless Services, the anticipated
shelter service provider, the Multnomah County Facilities & Property Management,
construction is scheduled to begin in late Summer of 2025 and be completed by the
end of December 2025.
C. The current Project Plan is for the Harrison Community Village to serve up to 45
people with up to 38 individual sleeping units and site amenities that include laundry,
restrooms and showers, a kitchenette, offices and program services, outdoor covered
area, pet relief area, storage space, trash enclosure, gated and fenced perimeter, and
staff parking spaces. This Project will be a gender inclusive, 18 and over adult-only
facility.
D. Pursuant to FAC-1, the Project team recommends approval of the FAC-1 Project Plan,
setting forth the plan Construction of the Harrison Community Village Project, which
includes a project budget of $4,128,197, inclusive of design, construction, Project
administration, and city permits.
E. Approval of the FAC-1 Project Plan, setting forth the plan for Construction, is in the
best interests of Multnomah County.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves:
Prior to the opening of this site, the County and designated parties, including
neighborhood and business association and PPS representatives, will negotiate and
commit their best efforts to secure a signed Good Neighborhood Agreement which
includes provider commitments.
Prior to the opening of this site, the County will work with the Portland Bureau of
Transportation, Portland Public Schools to ensure there is a safe routes to schools plan
for students traveling to nearby school and given Mill Street is a major intersection and
transportation route for students.
Prior to the opening of the site, the County will work with the nearby school communities
to hear and address school community concerns
The Project Plan is approved and the Project team is authorized to proceed with
Construction of the Harrison Community Village Project.
ADOPTED this 19th day of December, 2024.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By
     Andrew MacKendrick, Senior Assistant County Attorney
SUBMITTED BY: Tracey Massey, Director of County Assets/CIO