BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
PROCLAMATION NO.
Proclaiming June 19th, 2021 as Juneteenth Day in Multnomah County.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
1. The Independence Day movement initiated by the Declaration of Independence
on July 4, 1776 did not include the enslaved descendants of African Americans,
nor were they recognized as full human beings under the Declaration of
Independence.
2. Juneteenth is the annual observation recognizing the Emancipation
Proclamation, which occurred on January 1, 1863 but all remaining slaves in
Texas received the news on June 19, 1865. On this day 42 states in the US
including the District of Columbia celebrate the abolition of slavery which gave all
slaves freedom and equal rights. This day is also known as Freedom Day and
Emancipation Day and is heavily recognized in African American communities
nationwide.
3. Juneteenth celebrates the end of slavery; not the day slavery ended. "Delayed
emancipation was not caused by not-knowing; the culprit was lack of
enforcement." We celebrate Juneteenth because it was the beginning of freedom
and abolition of slavery for African Americans in the United States.
4. Although President Abraham Lincoln signed an executive order known as the
Emancipation Proclamation granting freedom to slaves in the states of the
Confederacy on January 1, 1863 slave owners in the Confederate states
continued to enslave people in defiance until well after the Civil War ended in
April 1865.
5. When Union Major Gordon Granger read General Order Number 3 in Galveston,
Texas, on June 19, 1865, it contained the important words, “all slaves are free”,
causing impromptu celebrations across the state as the long-delayed news
spread.
6. Juneteenth is the oldest celebration commemorating the abolition of slavery in
the United States today which celebrates the freedom and achievement of
African Americans, while encouraging continuous self-development and respect
for all cultures in the African diaspora.
2021-055
7. In 1945, Vanport resident Clara Peoples, the “Motherof Juneteenth”, brought thetradition from Muskogee, Oklahoma, to the Kaiser Shipyardin Oregoncelebrating Juneteenth for the first time here inMultnomah County. Traditionally,the celebration of Juneteenth kicked off with theClara Peoples Freedom TrailParade, followed by a community festival. This wasa time to celebrate and honorAfrican Americans freedom with an emphasis on educationand achievement.
8. In 1997, the 105th United States Congress passed SenateJoint Resolution 11and House Joint Resolution 56 officially recognizingJuneteenth IndependenceDay.
9. In 2001, Juneteenth became a statewide holiday herein the State of Oregonwhen Clara Peoples and Woody Broadnax worked withSenator Avel Gordly tohave Juneteenth recognized as a statewide day of observanceand declaration.Juneteenth is to be a day for celebration statewideof the dignity, worth, andfreedom of all citizens. Members of the Seventy-firstOregon LegislativeAssembly passed Joint Resolution 56 that proclaimsJune 19 of each year asJuneteenth Independence Day.
10. Multnomah County declared Juneteenth an annual paidholiday for MultnomahCounty employees in June 2020. By observing Juneteenth,Multnomah Countyseeks to not only commemorate the importance of thedate of Black liberation,but also encourages staff to use the day as an opportunityto learn about Blackhistory locally and nationally, to support Black writers,filmmakers and artists,patronize Black-owned businesses, and honor the accomplishmentsof Blackcolleagues.
11. Multnomah County acknowledges the ongoing impactsof slavery, Jim Crow,Oregon’s Black exclusion laws and gentrification onBlack Oregonians andremains committed to promoting and investing in servicesand programs thatsupport racial healing, reconciliation, restoration,justice and equitableopportunities of all people.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
June 19, 2021 as Juneteenth Day in Multnomah County, Oregon, and encourages all
residents, institutions, businesses and community groups to observe Juneteenth as a
day of remembrance and celebration.
ADOPTED this 17th day of June, 2021.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
___________________________
Deborah Kafoury, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By:
Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney
SUBMITTED BY: Ebony Clarke, Health Department Director