BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY , OREGON
PROCLAMATION NO. 2023-032
Proclaiming May 2023 as Asian American, Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander
Heritage Month in Multnomah County, Oregon.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
1. The month of May is nationally recognized as a time to celebrate the
contributions of Asians, Native Hawaiians and Pacific Islanders.
2. The month of May was chosen as Asian American and Native Hawaiian/Pacific
Islander (AANHPIs) Heritage Month to commemorate the immigration of the first
Japanese citizen, Nakahama Manjiro, to the United States on May 7, 1843, and to
honor the anniversary of the completion of the first Transcontinental Railroad, on May
10, 1869. This incredible feat was accomplished due to the back-breaking labor of
nearly 20,000 Chinese immigrants.
3. AANHPI communities have lived and worked in Oregon for over 200 years,
contributing to the state’s rich history, economy and culture. Notably in the early 1800s,
Native Hawaiians and Pacific Islanders made the crossing to the Pacific Northwest to
help establish fur trading posts along the Oregon Trail. In the late 1800s and early
1900s, South Asians migrated to towns up and down the west coast, working in lumber
and agriculture.
4. Throughout their history in the United States and in Oregon, AANHPI
communities have been subject to discrimination and violence. In 1910, White laborers
led an anti-Asian attack on South Asian laborers in the St. John’s neighborhood. With
the backing of the Multnomah County District Attorney's Office, the South Asian laborers
fought back, and demanded the prosecution of these attacks. Recently, Asian
communities have been the target of anti-Asian hate that has been fanned by
misinformation and bias. AANHPI history is both heroic and harrowing, as these
communities have thrived despite harassment and discrimination.
5. Asian Americans, Pacific Islanders and Native Hawaiians have made significant
contributions in various aspects of our society such as the arts, law, science,
technology, sports and public service. This year we are lifting up AANHPI individuals
who are committed to advancing future leaders through collaboration. Supporting and
advancing AANHPI community leaders is essential to developing leadership
opportunities, inspiring individuals and advancing Multnomah County’s diverse and
vibrant culture.
6. Multnomah County is committed to learning from and working with our AANHPI
partners to eliminate disparities by removing impediments to success through
increasing social inclusion, reducing poverty, ensuring language and healthcare access,
and supporting meaningful civic engagement.
7. Multnomah County welcomes and supports Asians, Asian Americans, Pacific
Islander and Native Hawaiian Oregonians as vital members of our community. The
county is committed to continuing to actively work with the community to use county
systems of care to provide our residents the safety they deserve. Multnomah County is
also committed to collaborating with the AANHPI community to mentor and uplift future
leaders.
The MultnomahCounty Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
The month of May 2023 as Asian, Asian American, Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander
Heritage Month celebrating all residents of Multnomah County who identify as Asian,
Asian American, Native Hawaiian and/or Pacific Islander.
ADOPTED this 18th day of May, 2023.
SUBMITTED BY: Commissioners Lori Stegmann & Susheela Jayapal
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY , OREGON
Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
F
OR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By
 Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney