BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
PROCLAMATION NO.
Proclaiming June 15, 2022 as Elder Abuse Awareness Day in Multnomah County.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. Multnomah County is home to more than 150,000 residents age 60 and over.
Older adults deserve to be safe and should be treated with respect and dignity to
enable them to serve as leaders, mentors, volunteers and thriving members of
our communities.
b. The COVID-19 pandemic has presented many challenges for older adults,
including the disruption of social and community connections. In some
situations, this increased isolation may have resulted in additional risk to the
health and well-being of older adults.
c. Elder Abuse Awareness Day is an opportunity for our community to raise
awareness and promote a better understanding of the issue of abuse, neglect
and self-neglect of older persons.
d. Elder abuse is an issue that affects millions of older adults each year. It takes
many forms, including physical abuse, verbal abuse, neglect, financial
exploitation, as well as issues of self-neglect.
e. Multnomah County recognizes the importance of encouraging everyone to
understand the responsibility of reporting abuse and neglect of older adults.
Many older adults may not be able or willing to report themselves.
f. Collaborative partnerships throughout Multnomah County and the community are
an important piece in addressing the issue of abuse of older and other vulnerable
adults. Creating a collaborative and responsive service system supports the
well-being, safety and independence of our most vulnerable citizens.
2022-051
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
June 15, 2022 as Elder Abuse Awareness Day in Multnomah County. We encourage all
agencies, advocates and citizens to recognize the importance of building a safe and
inclusive community for our elder residents.
ADOPTED this 9th
 day of June, 2022.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Deborah Kafoury, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By
Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney
SUBMITTED BY: Commissioner Sharon Meieran