BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
RESOLUTION NO.  2024-037
Approving the Library Capital Bond Program East County Library FAC-1 Construction Plan and
Authorizing the County Chair to Execute a Guaranteed Maximum Price Amendment.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners (“Board”) previously adopted
Resolution 2020-057 on June 25, 2020, authorizing submission to the voters of the
County a measure election with the question of contracting general obligation bonded
indebtedness in the an aggregate principal amount of not to exceed $387,000,000 to
finance capital costs, and repealing certain provisions of Resolution No. 2020-014.
b. On November 3, 2020, voters approved Measure 26-211 “Bonds to Expand, Renovate,
Construct Library Branches, Facilities; Increase Safety,” which authorized the County to
issue general obligation bonds to finance capital costs for updating, renovating,
constructing, and refreshing libraries across the county.
c. In June 2021, the County adopted the FY22 budget, including $387,000,000 for the
Library Capital Bond Program (LCBP).
d. In October 2021, through Resolution 2021-079, the Board approved the FAC-1 Library
Capital Bond Program Plan, including Program and Project charter and scopes,
estimated project costs and schedules, the funding strategy developed in cooperation
with the County's Chief Financial Officer, and design phases.
e. Pursuant to Administrative Procedure FAC-1 and the Library Capital Bond Program
Plan, the enclosed FAC-1 East County Library Construction Plan (“Construction Plan”)
sets forth a review of the project goals, design effort to date, sustainability status, DEI
(Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion) efforts, the project budget, the project schedule, and
next steps.
f. Holst Architecture was selected to perform design services. Project design is now
complete and in alignment with programmatic and regulatory requirements.
g. Fortis Construction was selected as Construction Management/General Contractor
(CM/GC) to perform pre-construction services and to negotiate a guaranteed maximum
price for construction services, and, if approved by the Board, execute an amendment
to the CM/GC Contract authorizing Fortis Construction to proceed with construction of
the Project at that price (“GMP Amendment”).
h. On April 10, 2024 the City of Gresham issued the full building permit BLDC-23-06352
for the construction of the new facility.
i. The Project budget totals $163.2 Million, including budget adjustments for broadband
support, collections, specialty items, site specific conditions, off site public
improvements, underground structured parking, market escalation and contingency.
The negotiated guaranteed maximum price for construction services is $112,919,524.
j. The Project Team recommends Board approval of the Construction Plan and the GMP
Amendment.
k. Approval of the Construction Plan and the GMP Amendment is in the best interests of
Multnomah County.
Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves:
1. The Construction Plan is approved and the Project Team is authorized to proceed with
the next steps in the construction phase development of the LCBP East County Library.
2. The County Chair is authorized to execute the GMP Amendment for the LCBP East
County Library Project, together with any amendments or any other ancillary
instruments, provided that further Board approval shall be obtained with respect to any
modification or amendment that results in a material increase in the obligations of the
County or a material decrease in the benefits to the County under the Guaranteed
Maximum Price Amendment.
ADOPTED this 23rd day of May, 2024.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
SUBMITTED BY:  Tracey Massey, Director, Department of County Assets and CIO