Page 1 of 2 - Authorizing a Highway Right-of-Way Easement of a Tax Foreclosed Property as
Allowed Under ORS 275.225 to the Oregon Department of Transportation.
 BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
RESOLUTION NO.  2021-091
Authorizing a Highway Right-of-Way Easement of a Tax Foreclosed Property as Allowed Under ORS
275.225 to the Oregon Department of Transportation.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. Multnomah County acquired through the foreclosure of liens for delinquent real property taxes
certain real property located in Multnomah County on September 23, 1999, with legal description
SECTION 10 1S 2E, TL 9700 (“Property”).
b. ORS 275.225 allows the County to sell County owned property, including property acquired
through tax foreclosure, at a private sale if that property meets certain conditions with respect to
value and the applicable zoning and building codes.
c. The Property has a real market value of less than $15,000.00 on each constituent account on
the assessment roll prepared for the County, consistent with the requirement of ORS
275.225(1)(a).
d. The zoning jurisdiction and record and current use indicates that the Proper ty is currently
unsuitable for the construction or placement of a dwelling thereon under applicable zoning
ordinances and building codes, as provided under ORS 275.225(1)(b).
e. The Oregon Department of Transportation (ODOT) is undertaking the US 26 (Powell Blvd): SE
99th Avenue – East City Limits Project  (“Project”). The main objectives of this Project include
construction of sidewalks, bike lanes, center turn lanes, storm drains, lighting, and enhanced
pedestrian crossings. The Project will improve safety along the corridor and impacts a County -
owned property managed by the Tax Title Program.
f. ODOT requests that the County grant a permanent and temporary easement for a portion of the
Property, more particularly described in Exhibit 1 , for the construction, reconstruction, repair,
and maintenance of the public highway system and for the construction and maintenance of
utility lines, fixtures and facilities ( “Easement”).
g. In partnership with ODOT, the County Boar d of Commissioners desires to grant the Easement
to ODOT for just compensation valued at $2,400.00, and finds it to be in the public interest.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves:
1. The grant of the  Permanent Easement for Highway Right of Way Purposes  to the Oregon
Department of Transportation for the real property described in Exhibit 1 is approved.
Page 2 of 2 - Authorizing a Highway Right-of-Way Easement of a Tax Foreclosed Property as
Allowed Under ORS 275.225 to the Oregon Department of Transportation.
2. The Chair is authorized to execute on behalf of the County a Permanent Easement for Highway
Right of Way Purposes  in substantial conformance with Exhibit 1 and any other documents to
complete the grant.
ADOPTED the 16th day of December 2021.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Deborah Kafoury, Chair
SUBMITTED BY: Serena Cruz, Dept. of County Management
REVIEWED:
EXHIBIT 1