BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON

PROCLAMATION NO. 2021-077

Proclaiming September 2021 as Suicide Prevention Month  in Multnomah County,
Oregon.

The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:

a. Suicide Prevention Month is celebrated every September to increase awareness
that prevention efforts save lives.  The 2021 national message for Suicide
Prevention month is “Be the one to:” In other words, there are many actions that
anyone can take in order to “Be  the one to” support someone in getting help and
feeling hope.

B. Anyone can experience a suicidal crisis, but some populations are more
vulnerable, including people from diverse backgrounds and cultures, specifically
Native Americans and Latinx communities.  The LGBTQ+ communities are also at
high risk, especially those who identify as transgender and even more specifically,
youth who identify as transgender.  Other risk groups include youth in general,
older adults, veterans, people in high risk areas of employment, rural residents and
people with behavioral health challenges.

C. Multnomah County is committed to treating suicide as a public health issue.  In
addition to utilizing a behavioral health lens, a public health approach adds a
complementary, wider, and prevention -oriented focus on addressing the many
factors across the lifespan that can contribute to thoughts of suicide and suicide
attempts. This approach offers opportunities to foster protective factors throughout
a person’s life, supporting ongoing prevention well before the prospect of suicide
is imminent.

D. Multnomah County promotes positive actions that can prevent suicide, including:
behavioral and physical health care that is accessible and effective, and supporting
culturally specific and responsive services to support communities.  By bringing
together a public and behavioral health approach to suicide prevention, suicides
can be prevented.

E. Suicide prevention is everyone’s business.  You can get trained to help for free at
www.gettrainedtohelp.com.  Most importantly, when an individual is at risk for
suicide, help is available 24/7 by calling the Multnomah County Behavioral Health
Call Center at 403 -988-4888 or the national suicide prevention line 1 -800-273-
TALK (8255).

The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
The month of September 2021 is proclaimed to be Suicide Prevention Month in
Multnomah County, Oregon.  All county residents are encouraged to increase awareness
of this year’s theme, “Be the one to…” which emphasizes the important role we all play in
preventing suicide.  Increasing communication about suicide prevention decreases the
stigma associated with seeking help from others, and strengthens access to get help and
inspire hope for everyone.
ADOPTED this 30th day of September, 2021
SUBMITTED BY: Sharon Meieran, Multnomah County Commissioner, District 1
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Deborah Kafoury, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By
Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney