BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
RESOLUTION NO. 2025-002
Declaring the Albina Library Annex, located at 236 NE Knott St., Portland, Surplus; and
Establishing a Public Comment Period.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
A. This matter comes to the Board pursuant to Resolution No. 2018 -005, which
establishes the County's policy for declaring property surplus and establishing a
public comment period.
B. County real property may be declared surplus and thereafter, sold, exchanged, or
otherwise conveyed or transferred ("disposed") whenever such property is not
needed for public use or whenever the public interest may be furthered by
disposition thereof ("Surplus").
C. The building located at 236 NE Knott St., Portland, Oregon (“Property”), is owned
by Multnomah County and is used by the Library Capital Bond Program. The
Property is a 1,389 square foot single family residence built in 1909 on a 7,500
square foot parcel.  The Property is being used as a construction jobsite office,
staging, and laydown area for Albina Library renovations. Library Capital Bond
Program (LCBP) funds were used to purchase the Property. Upon completion of
Albina Library renovations, the Property will no longer be needed. Proceeds from
the disposition of this property will be directed to the Library Capital Bond Program.
D. The Multnomah County Director of Facilities & Property Management Division
(“Director”) has determined that there is no other current or anticipated County use
for the Property, as required by Resolution No. 2018 -005.  Accordingly, the
Property is not need ed for public use and is appropriate for disposition.  Further,
given the absence of a County use for the Property, the public interest will be
furthered by disposition of the Property.
E. Based upon the nature and circumstances of the Property, the Director does not
expect the marketing period for a sale of the Property to exceed 60 days and,
therefore, recommends a 60 -day period during which the public may obtain
additional information on the recommendation from the Director and may submit
comments regarding the future use of the Property to the Director.
F. It is in the best interests of the County to act on the Director's determinations and
recommendations.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves:
1. The Property is declared surplus.
2. The Director is directed to take appropriate steps towards preparing the Property
for disposition and to return to the Board at a future public meeting with a
recommendation on disposition of the Property.
3. In order to afford all those interested in this matter the opportunity to obtain
additional information on the matter or to submit comment regarding future use of
the Property, the Director shall not return to the Board with a recommendation on
disposition of the Property prior to a period of 60 days commencing on the date of
adoption of this Resolution ("Comment Period").
ADOPTED this 16th day of January, 2025.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
  SUBMITTED BY: Tracey Massey, DCA Director & CIO