Page 1 - Modifying Multnomah County Agreement to the City of Portland’s Multiple Unit
Limited Tax Exemption (“MULTE”) Program.
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
RESOLUTION NO. 2023-036
Multnomah County’s Agreement with the City of Portland to extend the exemption period
for up to sixteen properties under Multiple Unit Limited Tax Exemption (“MULTE”)
Program and the City of Portland Inclusionary Housing Program.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. The City of Portland Housing Bureau (“PHB”) administers Limited Tax Exemption
(“LTE”) Programs that encourage the construction of affordable housing by leveraging
private housing development to advance the City’s housing, econo mic prosperity, and
equity goals.
b. By Board Resolution 2012 -113, the Board of County Commissioners authorized
participation in the City of Portland’s Multiple Unit Limited Tax Exemption (“MULTE”)
Program and capped total forgone revenue for new and renewing programs at $1 million.
c. By Board Resolution 2015-096, the Board of County Commissioners increased the
cap of total foregone revenue from $1 million to $3 million annually for new and renewing
programs.
d. By Board Resolution 2017-032, the Board of County Commissioners amended the
cap for total foregone revenue from a $3 million annual cap to a $15 million rolling 5-year
cap for the City of Portland’s mandatory inclusionary housing program that was adopted
in December 2016.
e. The existing MULTE program is designed to supplement the City’s Inclusionary
Housing (“IH”) mandate, which was implemented on February 1, 2017. The proposed
modification seeks to give up to sixteen housing developments approved under the
MULTE program prior to implementation of IH an additional five-year exemption under
the MULTE program as allowed under ORS 307.612.
f. The County’s mission is directly served by the provision of affordable housing
throughout the County to assist clients of County services and the general public.  It is in
the best interest of the County to authorize participation in programs that directly serve
the population.
Page 2 - Modifying Multnomah County Agreement to the City of Portland’s Multiple Unit
Limited Tax Exemption (“MULTE”) Program.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves:
1. The County, in conjunction with the City of Portland and city ordinance 191270,
hereby authorizes that the MULTE Extension Program will be available to housing
developments with expiring tax exemptions previously approved under the MULTE
Program with applications submitted before implementation of IH on February 1, 2017,
to continue receiving a tax exemption for five years so long as the housing
developments voluntarily continue restricting affordable units for another five years and
the following criteria are met:
A. During the term of the MULTE Extension Program, each development
continues to restrict the same number of units reflected in the ordinances
from when the developments were initially approved for the MULTE
Program;
B. The restricted units must be affordable to households earning sixty
percent or less of the area median family income; and
C. The conditions within the developments’ individually approved ordinances
continue to apply.
2. The estimated first year of foregone revenue for these proposed extensions to the
exemption period for the sixteen properties shall be included in the determination of the
$15 million rolling cap for the City of Portland’s mandatory inclusionary housing program.
ADOPTED this 1st day of June, 2023.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
_____
Jessica Vega-Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
Submitted by: Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair.