BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
RESOLUTION NO. 2023-060
Approving a Lease of the Property Located at 11942 NE Glisan  Street Portland, OR 97220 for
the Aging Disability and Veterans Services Division (“ADVSD”).
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. A lease of premises within the property located at 11942 NE Glisan Street Portland, O R
97220 (“Lease” ), that will provide Aging Disability and Veterans Services Division
(“ADVSD”) with necessary office and consumer space.
b. This lease would advance the work of ADVSD (Aging Disability and Veterans Services)
through a co -located office space with community  partner IRCO, and available drop -in
office space for IDD team members. The community would also benefit from an easier
accessible building to obtain needed services.
c. Approval of the Lease in substantial conformance with the proposed terms is in the bes t
interests of Multnomah County.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves:
1. The County Chair is authorized to execute a lease substantially in the conformance with
the Lease, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 1.
2. The County Chair is authorized to execute renewals and amendments of the Lease and
any ancillary instruments without further Board action.
SUBMITTED BY: Tracey Massey, Director, DCA and CIO
ADOPTED this 22nd day of June, 2023.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By:___________________________________
     Andrew MacKendrick, Sr. Assistant County Attorney

1366/128 5/11/23 - 1 - lease
GLISAN STREET STATION
SHOPPING CENTER LEASE
TENANT:  MULTNOMAH COUNTY
THIS LEASE  AGREEMENT ("Lease") is made and entered into this _____ day of
______________, 202 3, by and between POWELL - GLISAN ASSOCIATES, L.L.C., a
Washington limited liability company, hereinafter referred to as "Landlord", and
MULTNOMAH COUNTY, an Oregon political subdivision, hereinafter referred to as "Tenant".
WITNESSETH:
For and in consideration of the mutual covenants and conditions contained  herein, the
parties agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1. PREMISES, TERM, AND CONTINGENCY.
1.1 Premises.  Landlord hereby leases to Tenant and Tenant hereby leases from
Landlord those certain premises containing an agreed area of  9,723 rentable square feet (the
"Premises"), located in a single-story building (the “Building”) having a street address of 11942
NE Glisan Street Portland, OR 97220, which is located within a portion of that certain commercial
project commonly known as " Glisan Street Station " which is owned by Landlord legally
described in Exhibit "A " attached hereto and made a part hereof (the "Shopping Center "),
together with a nonexclusive right to use the  common parking areas and other common areas of
the Shopping Center as provided herein or in the OEA (defined below) .  The location of the
Premises and the Building are shown approximately on Exhibit "B". The Premises extend to the
center line of any party walls and to the exterior faces of any exterior walls of the building in which
the Premises are located.
1.2 OEA.  Tenant hereby acknowledges that this Lease is subject to, and Tenant agrees
to comply with, any and all covenants, conditions and/or restrictions, easements, conditions to any
subdivision or binding site plan approval, reciprocal easement agreements, statutes and/or
ordinances now or hereafter recorded or enforced against the Shopping Center, including without
limitation that certain Operation and Easement Agreement dated March 20, 1995, recorded in the
Real Estate Records of Multnomah County, Oregon on May 8, 1995 under Document No. 95 -
054024 (the "OEA").
1.3 Lease Term .  The term of this Lease (the "Term" or "Lease Term ") shall be
approximately one hundred twenty -six (126) months, commencing on the date the Premises are
delivered to Tenant with Landlord’s Work described on Exhibit “C” Substantially Completed (the
"Commencement Date"), and terminating at midnight on the last day of the calendar month which
is one hundred twenty-six (126) months from the Commencement Date .  Landlord shall provide
Tenant with written notice of substantial completion of Landlord's Work
1.4 Extension Option.  Tenant shall have the option to extend the Term of this Lease
(the "Extension Option") for two (2) successive  periods of five (5)  years (each an  "Option

1366/128 5/11/23 - 2 - lease
Period") commencing on the current expiration date of the Lease upon the following terms and
conditions:
(a) Tenant shall not have been in default under any of the terms, covenants, conditions
or provisions of this Lease  beyond the expiration of any applicable notice and cure period, and
Tenant shall not be in default either at the time Tenant exercises the Extension Option or as of the
current expiration date of this Lease;
(b) Tenant shall have notified Landlord of Tenant's election to exercise the  Extension
Option (the “Option Notice”) not later than six (6) months prior to the then current expiration date
of the Lease Term.
 Unless each of the foregoing conditions precedent have been satisfied, Tenant's exercise of
the Option shall be of no force or effect and the Option shall lapse.  If all of the conditions precedent
are satisfied, then the Lease Term shall be extended for the Option Period and all of the terms,
conditions and provisions of this Lease shall continue in full force and effect throughout the Option
Period, except that the M inimum Rent to be paid by Tenant for the Option Period shall be  the
greater of (i) Minimum Rent for the last year of the initial Lease Term, or (ii) the Fair Market Rent
(as defined below) of the Premises as of the then current expiration date of th is Lease. Minimum
Rent, or Fair Market Rent,  for an  Option P eriod may include market concessions such as
improvement allowances.
The term "Fair Market Rent" shall mean the annual Minimum Rent that a willing lessee
would pay and a willing lessor would accept in an arms -length lease of the Premises as of the
commencement of the Option Period.  If Landlord and Tenant shall fail to agree upon the Fair
Market Rent within sixty (60) days after delivery of the Option Notice, Landlord and Tenant each
shall give notic e (the "Determination Notice ") to the other setting forth their respective
determinations of the Fair Market Rent, and, subject to the provisions below, both parties shall
within ten (10) days after delivery of the Determination Notices, select an independent third party
real estate broker, not affiliated with Landlord or Tenant, with at least ten (10) years' experience
in the business of leasing commercial real estate and with knowledge of the real estate market in
the northeast Portland, Oregon area.  The two persons chosen shall, with ten (10) days after their
selection, select a third person similar qualifications who shall be the arbitrator to render a final
determination of the Fair Market Rent.  The arbitrator shall conduct such hearings and
investigations as the arbitrator shall deem appropriate and shall, within thirty (30) days after having
been appointed, choose one of the determinations set forth in either Landlord's or Tenant's
Determination Notice, and that choice shall be binding upon Landlord and Tenant.  Each party
shall pay its own counsel fees and expenses, if any, in connection with any arbitration under this
paragraph, and the parties shall share equally all other expenses and fees of any such arbitration.
The determination rendered in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph shall be final and
binding in fixing the Fair Market Rent.  The arbitrator shall not have the power to add to, modify,
or change any of the provisions of this Lease.

1366/128 5/11/23 - 3 - lease
ARTICLE 2. RENT.
Tenant shall pay to Landlord, as rent therefor, the following amounts, in lawful money of
the United States of America, determined and payable in the manner and at the times set forth
below, to wit:
2.1 Deposit (Prepaid Rent).  No Deposit is required of Tenant.
2.2 Minimum Rent.  Commencing on the Commencement Date and continuing to the
end of the Lease Term, Tenant shall pay to Landlord on or before the first day of each month
Minimum Rent (the "Minimum Rent") in accordance with the following schedule:
Months Annual Minimum Rent Monthly Minimum Rent
1-12* $247,936.50* $20,661,38*
13-24 $255,374.60 $21,281,22
25-36 $263,035.83 $21,919.65
37-48 $270,926.91 $22,577.24
49-60 $279,054.72 $23,254.56
61-72 $287,426.36 $23,952.20
73-84 $296,049.15 $24,670.76
85-96 $304,930.62 $25,410.89
97-108 $314,078,54 $26,173.21
109-120 $323,500.90 $26,958.41
121-126 $333,188.74 $27,767.16
*So long as Tenant is not in default beyond the expiration of any applicable notice and cure period,
Minimum Rent for the first six (6) months of the Term following the Commencement Date will
be waived.
If the Commencement Date falls on any day other than the first day of a calendar month,
Minimum Rent, Common Area Charges and other additional rent payable  for the fir st calendar
month of the Lease Term shall be apportioned pro rata based on the number of days remaining in
a thirty (30) day month  and a three hundred sixty five (365) day year .  Any monthly Minimum
Rent not received on or before 12:00 midnight of the first day of each month shall be subject to a
late charge equal to five  percent (5%) of the monthly Minimum Rent due and shall constitute
additional rent due to Landlord under this Lease.  Any and all other charges due under this Lease
not received on or before the due date shall also be subject to a late charge equal to five percent

1366/128 5/11/23 - 4 - lease
(5%) of the delinquent amount.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Tenant is delinquent in the
payment of Minimum Rent or Additional Rent on more than three (3) occasions in a consecutive
twelve (12) month period, then a late fee of ten percent (10%) shall thereafter be immediately due
with respect to all delinquencies.  If a check is dishonored or returned for insufficient funds, Tenant
shall pay to Landlord an additional fee of $50.  If a second (2 nd) check is dishonored or returned
for insufficient funds, then in addition to the foregoing charge, Landlord may require all future
payments to be paid with a bank draft of certified check.
2.3 Common Area Charge.  Commencing on the Commencement Date, Tenant agrees
to pay Landlord, as additional rent, a Common Area Charge.  The "Common Area Charge " is
defined as Tenant's Proportionate Share (defined below) of Landlord's costs and expenses of every
kind and nature incurred in the operation and maintenance of the Common Areas.  The "Common
Areas" are defined as including, but not limited to, the sidewalks, pedestrian walkways, driveways,
parking areas, service areas, landscaped areas, shopping center identification signs, traffic markers
and signs, parking lot lighting, storm drains and sewers, utility lines, restrooms serving the public,
and all roofs and building exteriors of the Shopping Center.  The common area costs shall mean
the total costs and expenses incurred by Landlord for cleaning, repairing, o perating, policing,
managing and replacement to all or any part of the Common Areas, which costs and expenses shall
include, but not be limited to, the following: (1) operating, cleaning, sweeping, restriping, repairing
and resurfacing the parking lot and driveways areas; (2) maintenance and replacement of the
plantings and landscaping; (3) maintenance, repair and replacements of the landscape sprinkler
systems, parking bumpers, directional signs and other signs and markers, fire protection systems,
lights and light standards (including bulb replacement), drainage systems (including any storm
detention ponds) and utility systems; (4) the cost of maintaining and repairing the roof membranes,
gutters and downspouts of Shopping Center buildings; (5) day porter services; (6) operation and
maintenance of Shopping Center sign or signs, or rent for such sign(s) if leased; (7) depreciation
on all equipment purchased for the purpose of operating and/or maintaining the Common Areas,
or rent for such equipment if leased, and maintenance and repair of such equipment; (8) cleaning,
maintenance and repair of all sidewalks, including those situated on the perimeter of the boundaries
of the Shopping Center (but nothing shall be construed as obligating Landlord to clean, maint ain
or repair any areas or improvement outside the Shopping Center boundaries); (9) operations,
maintenance and repair of any public address systems, music systems, and security and/or alarm
systems, including rent for such systems if leased; (10) the reas onable cost of personnel to
implement such services and to regulate employee parking and to police and provide security for
the Common Areas and for the buildings in the Shopping Center, including all social security,
medical insurance and other contributi ons and Workers' Compensation Insurance costs paid or
incurred with respect to such personnel; (11) the cost of all Landlord's insurance including, but not
limited to, fire and other casualty, bodily injury, public liability, property damage liability,
automobile parking lot liability insurance, loss of rents insurance, sign insurance, Workers'
Compensation Insurance, and any other insurance carried by Landlord for the Common Areas;
(12) real estate taxes and assessments assessed against and which are alloc able to the land and
improvements which constitute the Common Areas; (13) the amount of any taxes, assessments,
surcharges or other charges which may be imposed by governmental authority under any energy
legislation, environmental protection legislation, o r other similar legislation, which tax or charge
is based upon the existence of vehicular parking facilities on the Common Areas; (14) legal fees
incurred in connection with common area matters; and (15) garbage and refuse removal , unless
such services are billed directly to Tenant; (16)  audit expenses, and costs incurred in connection

1366/128 5/11/23 - 5 - lease
with attempt to control trespassing, picketing, demonstrations, gatherings or assemblies,
vandalism, thefts, and any other interference with the use of the Common Areas by th e persons
authorized to use the Common Areas as hereinabove provided; (17) personal property taxes, sales
taxes and use taxes on material, equipment, supplies, and services used in operating and
maintaining the Common Areas; (1 8) repair and/or replacement of on-site water lines, electrical
lines, gas lines, sanitary sewer lines and storm water lines; (19) all electrical, water, sewer or other
utility charges for serving the Common Areas (including any on -site and/or off -site sanitary
treatment plant(s) serving the Shopping Center and all pipes leading to and from same); ( 20) the
costs of on-site manager(s), if any, to administer the Shopping Center, including the office supplies
and facilities occupied by such manager(s) ; (21) insurance deductibles incurred by Landlord in
connection with claims made by Landlord and paid by insurers under liability or property
insurance maintained by Landlord with respect to the Shopping Center; (22)  charges allocated to
the Shopping Center under the OEA, to the extent such ch arges are not included in the foregoing
terms; and (23) the cost of any third party property management fees associated with the
administration of the Shopping Center, which will not exceed five percent (5%) of the gross
revenues from the Shopping Center .  In addition, Tenant shall pay its Proportionate Share of an
amount equal to fifteen percent (15%) of the total of the aforementioned expenses for each calendar
year for the cost of administering and supervising the operation, maintenance and repair of the
Common Areas, and of billing and collecting the Common Areas' costs from the occupants of the
Shopping Center, including management, administrative and clerical costs in connection
therewith.
Tenant's "Proportionate Share " shall equal a fraction, the nume rator of which is the
number of square feet in the Premises, and the denominator of which is the number of square feet
of Gross Leasable Area (defined below) of the buildings in the Shopping Center. As of the date of
this Lease, Tenant’s Proportionate Share is nine and 98/100 percent (9.98%).
"Gross Leasable Area" of the Shopping Center means the floor area contained in existing
buildings in the Shopping Center which area is leased or held for lease, excluding any mezzanines,
but shall not include any area s of the Shopping Center designated for future development of
leasable building area until construction of those areas is completed and a certificate of occupancy
has been issued.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Landlord may, at its reasonable discretion, allocate certain
Common Area Charges among portions of the Shopping Center to the extent Landlord deems it
necessary or desirable in order to equitably allocate Common Area costs (e .g., allocating certain
maintenance costs by building rather than across the entire Shopping Center).  In such event, with
respect to those specific expense items, Tenant's "Proportionate Share" shall equal a fraction, the
numerator of which is the number of square feet in the Premises, and the denominator of which is
the number of square feet of Gross Leasable Area of that portion of the Shopping Center over
which the shared expense items are allocated.
 In addition, if any tenants in the Shopping Center h ave obtained written approval from
Landlord to pay their taxes directly to any taxing authority, or to carry their own insurance, or to
maintain part of the Common Area at their own expense, the Gross Leasable Area occupied by
such tenants or owners shall not be deemed to be part of the denominator for purposes of
calculating Tenant's Proportionate Share of such taxes, insurance, or other expense items.

1366/128 5/11/23 - 6 - lease
All charges payable by Tenant under this section as Common Area Charges shall be
estimated and paid in equal monthly installments in advance at the same time and place as provided
for the payment of the Minimum Rent.  Such payments shall initially be equal to one -twelfth
(1/12th) of the total of Landlord's reasonable estimate of such charges for the first cal endar year
the Shopping Center is open and, after such first year, shall be an amount equal to one -twelfth
(1/12th) of the total charges for the previous twelve -month period, adjusted to reflect Landlord's
reasonable estimate of anticipated increases or decreases in such charges.  Within one hundred and
twenty (120) days of the end of each calendar year, Landlord shall determine the actual amount of
such charges and expenses for the immediately preceding year and furnish Tenant with a copy of
such computation, including a computation of Tenant's Proportionate Share.  If the amount paid
by Tenant for that year exceeds Tenant's Proportionate Share, Tenant shall be given a credit
towards the next payment of Common Area Charges due from Tenant (or a refund, if t he term of
the Lease has expired).  If the amount paid by Tenant for that year is less than Tenant's
Proportionate Share, Tenant shall pay Landlord the deficit within thirty (30) days of receipt of the
computation.  An appropriate proportionate adjustment shall be made by Landlord for any partial
year.
2.4 Place of Payment.  Unless otherwise directed by Landlord, Tenant shall deliver all
statements and pay all payments of rent and other charges due under this Lease  to the order of
Glisan Street Station,  c/o Powell Development Company, P. O. Box 97070, Kirkland, WA
98083-9770.
ARTICLE 3. CONSTRUCTION AND DELIVERY.
3.1 Construction.  Landlord shall, at its sole cost and expense, make certain
improvements to the Building and the Premises for occupancy by Tenant, in accordance with the
requirements for Landlord's Work as set forth in Exhibit “C” attached hereto and made a part
hereof.
3.2 Tenant’s Work .  Tenant shall, at its sole cost and expense, perform the work
described on Exhibit “D” as "Tenant's Work". Tenant's Work shall be built out in accordance
with architectural, mechanical and electrical plans and specifications to be prepared at Tenant's
expense by a licensed architect or architectural draftsman, and thereafter to be approved by
Landlord in writing; provided, however, that Landlord's approval shal l not be unreasonably
withheld. Tenant shall submit its proposed plans for Tenant’s Work to Landlord in electronic
format (.CAD or .PDF) for review and approval.  Tenant shall be responsible for obtaining and
paying for all necessary building permits for T enant's Work. Not later than thirty (30) days
following completion of Tenant’s Work, if required by Landlord, Tenant shall provide Landlord
with electronic .CAD or .PDF files of "as -built" plans for the Premises reflecting completed
Tenant’s Work.  Any work or equipment other than those items specifically enumerated in Exhibit
“D” as Landlord's Work shall be performed by Tenant at its own cost and expense and Tenant
shall fully equip the Premises with all trade fixtures and equipment necessary for the prope r
operation of Tenant's business.

ARTICLE 4. USE OF PREMISES.

1366/128 5/11/23 - 7 - lease
4.1 Business.  Tenant intends to use the Premises solely for the purpose of
administrative offices  (the "Permitted Use ") and for no other use without Landlord's written
consent.
4.2 Legal Compliance.  Tenant will make no unlawful, improper or offensive use of
the Premises, or any portion thereof, and during said term, or any extension thereof, shall comply
with all statutes of the United States and/or the State of Oregon and with all ordinances, rules,
regulations and laws of other governmental authorities applicable to the Premises and the general
use thereof.  Tenant will not use or permit the use of the Premises in any manner that will create a
nuisance, unnecessarily disturb other tenants or occupants of the Shopping Center or tend to injure
the reputation of the Shopping Center.  Tenant will not do anything which will create a danger of
life and limb or increase any insurance rates upon the Premises or other portions of the Shopping
Center.
4.3 Prohibited Activities and Uses.  Tenant agrees not to use the Premises f or the sale
of merchandise and/or services other than the Permitted Use without Landlord's prior written
consent.  Tenant further agrees that it shall not at any time permit the Premises to be used for any
of the purposes  prohibited under the OEA or as  set forth on Exhibit " E" attached hereto and
incorporated herein by this reference (the "Prohibited Uses").  All deliveries to the Premises shall
be made to the delivery entrance, if any.
 4.4 Hazardous Materials.
(a) "Hazardous Material" shall mean any matter (whether gaseous, liquid or
solid) which is or may be harmful to persons or property, including but not limited to materials now
or hereafter designated as a hazardous or toxic waste or substance under the Compreh ensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, 42 USC 9601, et seq., all as now
or hereafter amended, or which may now or hereafter be regulated under any other federal, state, or
local law, statute, ordinance or regulation pertaining to health, industrial hygiene or the environment,
including, without limitation, (i) any asbestos and/or asbestos containing materials (collectively
"ACMs") regardless of whether such ACMs are in a friable or non-friable state, or (ii) any matter
designated as a hazardous substance pursuant to Section 311 of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act (33 USC 1317), or (iii) any matter defined as a hazardous waste pursuant to Section 1004 of the
Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, (42 USC 6901 et seq) pertaining to health or the
environment.  "Hazardous Material" shall not include ordinary cleaning and maintenance products
which are used with due care and in accordance with applicable law and the instructions of the
manufacturer of such products in the reasonable and prudent conduct of Tenant's business on the
Premises.
(b) Tenant shall not store, use, sell, release, generate or dispose of any Hazardous
Materials in, on or about the Premises without the prior written consent of Landlord.  With respect
to any Hazardous Materials stored, used, generated or disposed of  from the Premises, Tenant shall
promptly, timely and completely comply with all governmental requirements for recording and
recordkeeping; submit to Landlord true and correct copies of all reports, manifests and identification
numbers at the same time as they are required to be and/or are submitted to the appropriate
governmental authority; within five (5) days of Landlord's request, provide evidence satisfactory to
Landlord of Tenant's compliance with all applicable governmental rules, regulations and

1366/128 5/11/23 - 8 - lease
requirements; and comply with all governmental rules, regulations and requirements regarding the
use, sale, transportation, generation, treatment and disposal of Hazardous Materials.  Pri or to the
expiration and surrender of the Premises by Tenant, Tenant shall remove any and all Hazardous
Materials (including without limitation ACMs) which Tenant, its employees, agents, contractors
and/or sublessees have brought onto the Premises, or buil t into or otherwise utilized, stored or
disposed of in the Premises, including without limitation leasehold improvements, wall, flooring and
ceiling materials.  Tenant shall be solely responsible for and shall defend (with counsel acceptable
to Landlord), indemnify and hold Landlord, its agents affiliates and employees harmless from and
against all claims, costs, damages, judgments, penalties, fines, losses, liabilities and expenses,
including attorneys' fees and costs, arising out of or in connection with Tenant's breach of its
obligations contained in this Section 4.4 (including, without limitation, diminution in value of the
Premises and sums paid as settlement of claims, attorneys' fees, consultant fees, and expert fees,
whether or not used at trial or in a proceeding) which arise during or after the Lease Term as a result
of such contamination.  Tenant shall be solely responsible for and shall defend (with counsel
acceptable to Landlord), indemnify and hold Landlord, its agents, affiliates and employees harmless
from and against any and all claims, costs, damages, lawsuits, penalties, liens, losses and/or
liabilities, including attorneys' fees and costs, arising out of or in connection with removal, cleanup
and restoration work and materials necessary to return the Premises and any other property of
whatever nature to their condition existing prior to the appearance of Hazardous Material on or about
the Premises; provided that Landlord's written approval of such actions and that of any Lender shall
first be obtained, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld so long as the actions would
not potentially have any material adverse, long-term or short-term effect on the Premises, Common
Areas, or Shopping Center.  Notwithstanding anything else set forth  herein, Tenant's obligations
under this Section 4.4 shall survive the expiration of this Lease.
ARTICLE 5. QUIET ENJOYMENT.
Landlord warrants and covenants that Tenant, discharging all of its obligations hereunder,
shall, and may peaceably and quietly hold and enjoy the Premises for the term aforesaid.
ARTICLE 6. UTILITIES.
Tenant covenants to promptly, and as the bills therefor become due and payable, pay for
any and a ll heat, air conditioning, water, light, power and/or other utility service, including
garbage, trash removal and sewage disposal, used by Tenant in or about the Premises during the
Lease Term or any extension thereof, whether such bills be presented befor e or after the
termination of the occupancy of said Premises by Tenant.   Not later than five (5) business days
after delivery of the Premises to Tenant, Tenant shall arrange for the transfer to Tenant’s name of
all utility accounts to be billed directly to Tenant.  Landlord shall not be liable for any interruption
or failure in the supply of any utility to the Premises.  If any such utilities are supplied by Landlord,
Tenant shall pay to Landlord its Proportionate Share of such utility expenses plus an administrative
fee equal to fifteen percent (15%) of said expenses, as determined in a fair and equitable manner
at Landlord's sole discretion.  Landlord shall provide an annual budget in accordance with the
terms of Section 2. 3 and Tenant shall pay one -twelfth of its annual Proportionate Share of such
utility expenses with Tenant's payment of monthly Minimum Rent and Common Area Charges.
Actual utility expenses will be reconciled to the budget simultaneously with the Common Area
Charge reconciliation as set forth in Section 2.3.

1366/128 5/11/23 - 9 - lease
ARTICLE 7. HVAC.
Tenant covenants to maintain the HVAC system serving the Premises  at reasonable,
appropriate temperatures for the convenience of its customers.  Tenant further agrees to participate
in a master preventive maintenance contract administered by Landlord with a contractor selected
by Landlord which shall provide for quarterly service limited to filter replacement, belt
adjustments, freon level checks and cleaning of Tenant's system.  Ten ant will be billed for its
Proportionate Share of the preventive maintenance contract charges by Landlord. As of the date
of this Lease, Tenant’s Proportionate Share for the HVAC maintenance contract is twenty eight
and 49/100 percent ( 28.49%). Such billin g shall be made at the time Tenant is invoiced for
Common Area Charges as outlined in Section 2.3.  All other repairs, replacements or modifications
to Tenant's air conditioning and heating systems are to be made by Tenant at its sole cost and
expense by a licensed contractor designated by Tenant and approved by Landlord in its reasonable
discretion.
In the event Landlord terminates the preventive maintenance contract, or elects not to enter
into one, then Tenant agrees to keep in full force and effect a preventive maintenance agreement
for its heating and air conditioning equipment, which agreement shall provide, among other things,
for a minimum replacement of any fi lters installed in said equipment and service once per every
calendar quarter, and a copy of said maintenance agreement shall be provided to Landlord.
ARTICLE 8. TAXES AND OTHER ASSESSMENTS.
8.1 Real Estate Taxes and Assessments .  Subject to the terms of Section 8.4 below,
Landlord shall pay or cause to be paid all real estate taxes and other assessments assessed against
the legal parcel upon which the Building is situated (“Tenant’s Tax Parcel”).  During the Lease
Term, Tenant covenants and agrees to pay Landlord promptly when due, as additional rent, all real
estate taxes and assessments assessed against Tenant’s Tax Parcel, together with an administrative
fee of fifteen (15%).  Taxes shall be apportioned pro rata for the first and last calendar years of
this Lease.
Tenant shall deposit with Landlord monthly payments equal to one -twelfth (1/12th) of the
estimated real estate taxes and assessments.  These payments will form a reserve fund from which
Landlord will pay real estate taxes and assessments  for Tenant’s Tax Parcel.   At the end of each
calendar year Landlord shall provide Tenant with an accounting of the reserve fund.  If the amount
in the fund is greater than real estate taxes and assessments  for Tenant’s Tax Parcel , the excess
shall be refunded to Tenant; and, if the amount in the fund is less than such real estate taxes and
assessments, Tenant will reimburse Landlord for this defici ency within fifteen (15) days of
Tenant's receipt of the reserve fund accounting.
8.2 Personal Property Taxes .  Tenant shall pay before delinquency any and all taxes,
assessments, license fees and public char ges levied, assessed or imposed and which become
payable during the term hereof upon Tenant's fixtures, furniture, appliances, personal property and
inventory installed or located in the Premises.
8.3 Miscellaneous Taxes.  In addition to all other amounts which Tenant is required to
pay under this Lease, Tenant shall pay all taxes levied, upon or measured by the rent payable

1366/128 5/11/23 - 10 - lease
hereunder, if any, whether a so-called sales tax, transaction privilege tax, excise tax or otherwise,
but in no event shall Tenant pay or be liable for any income taxes of Landlord.
8.4 Tax Exemption.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, Tenant at its sole
cost and expense intends to apply and qualify for real property tax, and personal property tax
exemption as provided by law.  At Tenant’s request, Landlord will promptly provide information
reasonably required for Tenant to apply for such exemption. As required by ORS 307.112, it is
expressly agreed that any tax savings resultin g from an exemption grante d under ORS 307.112
shall inure for the sole benefit of Tenant. If, on the Commencement Date, Tenant’s Tax Parcel is
presently subject to taxes, Tenant shall only be responsible for taxes for that portion of the Lease
Term during which the tax exemption does not apply.
ARTICLE 9. MAINTENANCE OF PARKING AND OTHER COMMON AREAS AND OF
ABUTTING AREAS.
9.1 Parking.  Landlord agrees to properly maintain during the Lease Term and any
extension thereof, the parking area and other common facilities in the Shopping Center.  Landlord
shall operate, manage and maintain all of the parking areas shown on Exhibit "B" and furnish
proper landscaping, drainage facilities and lighting facilities throughout all areas of the Shopping
Center other than that occupied by buildings and keep such areas reasonably free of obstructions,
clear of debris, water, ice and snow, and in a clean condition for the entire term of this Lease and
any extensions thereof, and shall keep the parking areas, driveways and sidewalks lighted at such
times during the hours of darkness as the Shopping Center shall be open for business.    The cost
and expense of maintaining the parking areas and common facilities in the Shopping Center shall
be included in the calculation of Tenant’s Common Area Charge and  reimbursed to Landlord by
Tenant in accordance with Section 2.3.
9.2 Traffic Flow.  Landlord shall place and maintain markings on the surface of the
parking areas and driveways  within the Common Area  in such a manner as to provide for the
orderly parking and traffic flow of automobiles and shall provide adequate exits and entrances with
signs directing traffic in and out of parking areas.
9.3 Employee Parking. Tenant, its employees and invitees shall have the non-exclusive
right to all parking stalls located around the Building at no charge throughout the Lease Term.
ARTICLE 10. MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF PREMISES.
10.1 Tenant's Obligation.  Tenant shall at all times keep the Premises in good order,
condition and repair, including periodic painting of the interior of the Premises.  Tenant's duty to
maintain includes, but is not limited t o, maintaining exterior and interior fronts, entrances, doors
and windows, interior walls, all trade fixtures, equipment, lighting, plumbing fixtures, sprinkler
systems, heating and air conditioning equipment, floor coverings, ceilings and all other interi or
portions of the demised Premises, and shall keep all pipes and drains free and unclogged.  All roof
penetrations must be approved by Landlord and be made at tenant's expense by Landlord's
contractor.  Tenant shall also keep sidewalks and service areas a djacent to the Premises clear of
dirt, rubbish, snow, ice and excess moisture, or water.  If the Premises has a storage area, marquee
or display or exit and/or entrance which fronts or opens onto a common area, Tenant shall maintain

1366/128 5/11/23 - 11 - lease
such storage area, marq uee, display, exit and entrance.  Tenant shall also maintain and operate
adequate marquee sign lighting on the Premises consistent with the lighting hours of the Shopping
Center (if Tenant has a lighted storefront sign).
10.2 Landlord's Obligation.  Landlord shall be responsible for any structural repairs to
the Premises and exterior utility pipes serving the Premises.  Landlord will maintain the exterior
walls and the roof structure, such costs to be the res ponsibility of Landlord; provided, however,
that Landlord's costs and expenses incurred in maintaining the roof membrane, gutters and
downspouts shall be charged to Tenant  as part of Tenant’s Common Area Charge  in accordance
with Section 2.3.
10.3 Failure to Repair .  If Tenant refuses or neglects to make repairs as required
hereunder or maintain the Premises in a neat and sanitary condition, Landlord, within thirty (30)
days after written demand, may make such repa irs or perform such maintenance, and the costs
thereof shall be billed to Tenant and shall be additional rent due hereunder.
If Landlord shall fail to make necessary repairs as required hereunder, Tenant, within thirty
(30) days after written demand, may make such repairs or perform such maintenance and the cost
thereof shall be billed to Landlord.
ARTICLE 11. INSURANCE.
11.1 Public Liability and Property Damage .  Tenant covenants that it shall, during the
entire Lease Term, keep in full force and effect a policy of commercial general liability insurance
with respect to the Premises, the sidewalks in front of the Premises, and the business operated by
Tenant, having combined single limits for bodily injury and property damage of not less than One
Million Dollars ($1,000,000) per occurrence, and Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000) in the
aggregate, with excess or umbrella liability coverage of at least One Million Dollars ($1,000,000)
over the primary liability limits.  From time to time Landlord shall have the right to re -examine
the policy limits for liability coverage and property damage required hereunder and raise the limits
in line with standard industry practice at the time of Landlord's review of Tenant's coverage.  The
policy shall name Landlord, Landlord's mortgagee, and Landlord's managing agent as additional
insureds and shall contain cross liability endorsements.  The policy shall also contain an
endorsement that the insurer will not cancel, change, or fail to renew the insurance without giving
Landlord thirty (30) days prior written notice.  The insurance shall be with a reputable insurance
company with a minimum rating by A.M. Best & Co. of at least  A-:VII and a certificate of
insurance shall be delivered to Landlord and/or its agent and, upon request, Landlord's mortgagee.
Should Tenant fail to comply with the provisions of this Article 1 1 within fifteen (15) days of
Landlord's or Landlord's agent' s written request, Landlord shall have the right to secure the
appropriate insurance coverages on Tenant's behalf and pay the premiums therefor, and in such
event the entire amount of such premiums shall be immediately due and payable by Tenant to
Landlord as additional rent, plus an administrative fee of fifteen percent (15%).  Failure by Tenant
to pay any such premiums when due shall constitute a default by Tenant under Section 25.1 below.
11.2 Tenant's Property Insurance.  Tenant at its sole cost shall maintain on all its personal
property and Tenant's improvements and alterations, in, on, or about the Premises, a policy of
special form (all risk) property insurance (including theft)  to the extent of 10 0% of their full

1366/128 5/11/23 - 12 - lease
replacement cost.  The proceeds from any such policy shall be used by Tenant for the replacement
of personal property or the restoration of Tenant's improvements or alterations.
11.3 Plate Glass Insurance .  Tenant at its sole cost shall maintain full coverage plate
glass insurance on the Premises.  Landlord shall be named as insureds on the policy.
11.4 Tenant’s Self-Insurance Program. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary,
Landlord acknowledges and agrees that Tenant is self -insured, and that, for so long as Tenant
remains self-insured, Tenant shall not be required to provide the insurance obligations described
in this Lease. For purposes of the blanket additional insured provision in Tenant’s excess liability
insurance policy, Landlord and its members, officers, directors, and employees are hereby required
to be, and shall be deemed, to be additional insureds.  Further, e ach Party agrees to maintain
insurance levels or self-insurance in accordance with ORS 30.282, fo r the duration of this Lease
at levels necessary to protect against public body liability as specified in ORS 30.271 to 30.273.
11.5 Landlord's Property Insurance.  Landlord shall maintain on the building and other
improvements in the Shopping Center in which the Premises are located a policy of special form
(all risk) property insurance and may include earthquake and flood coverage in amounts deemed
reasonably necessary by Landlord.
Tenant covenants that it will not keep, have or sell in or upon the Premises any article
which may be prohibited by Landlord's special form (all risk) property coverage insurance policy.
Tenant shall provide Landlord with thirty (30) days' p rior written request of its desire to
merchandise or stock items and/or install fixtures and equipment on or about the Premises which
may result in an increase in premiums for Landlord's insurance that may be charged on any
buildings in the Shopping Center .  Landlord shall, within ten (10) days of receipt of said notice
from Tenant, consent or deny Tenant's request in writing.  If Tenant unknowingly stocks or
merchandises items or installs fixtures or equipment on or about the Premises which results in an
increase in fire and extended coverage insurance premiums and does so without Landlord's written
approval, Tenant shall pay any increase in insurance premium resulting from the increased risk
and will promptly remove said items or fixtures upon thirty (30) days' prior written notice to Tenant
by Landlord.  A schedule issued by the organization making the insurance rate on the Shopping
Center shall be conclusive evidence of the several items and charges which make up the fire
insurance rate.
Landlord may also maintain or cause to be maintained on the buildings, sidewalks, parking
areas and all other areas of the Shopping Center a policy of commercial general liability insurance
providing Landlord with "Lessor's Risk" coverage in amount s deemed reasonably necessary by
Landlord.
Tenant shall reimburse Landlord for Tenant's Proportionate Share of the cost of any
casualty and public liability insurance, including special form (all risk) casualty and flood and
earthquake coverage, which Landlord carries on Tenant's Premises and any portion of the
Shopping Center.  Tenant's Proportionate Share shall be estimated, calculated and paid in the same
manner provided for with respect to the Common Area Charges in Article 2.

1366/128 5/11/23 - 13 - lease
11.6 Business Income/Loss of Rents .  Tenant, at its sole cost, shall maintain business
income insurance insuring that the estimated average monthly net revenues from Tenant's Premises
for a period of up to six (6) months will be paid to Tenant if the Premises are destroyed or rendered
inaccessible by a risk insured against by a policy of property insurance.
Landlord may maintain loss of rents insurance insuring that the Minimum Rent, Common
Area Charge and any additional rent for a period of up t o one (1) year will be paid to Landlord if
the Premises are destroyed or rendered inaccessible by a risk insured against by a Landlord's
casualty insurance.  Tenant shall reimburse Landlord for Tenant's Proportionate Share of the cost
of any loss of rents insurance with Tenant's portion being estimated, calculated and paid in the
same manner provided for with respect to the Common Area Charges in Article 2.
ARTICLE 12. DESTRUCTION OF PREMISES.
12.1 Fully Tenantable.  If the Premises are damaged by fire or other insured casualty,
but remain fully tenantable and suitable for the purpose of the tenancy, Landlord shall, at its own
expense, cause such damage to be repaired and the rent shall not be abated.
12.2 Partially Untenantable.  If the Premises shall be rendered partially untenantable by
reason of such occurrence,  but remain suitable for the purpose of the tenan cy, Landlord shall, at
its own expense, cause the damage to be repaired, and the Minimum Rent for the part of the
Premises rendered untenantable shall be equitably abated (based on the number of square feet
rendered untenantable) as long as said part remains untenantable.
12.3 Totally Untenantable.  If the Premises shall be rendered wholly untenantable by
reason of such occurrence, Landlord shall, at its own expense, cause such damage to be repaired,
and Minimum Rent shall be abated; provided, however, that Landlord shall have the right, which
may be exercised by written notice delivered to Tenant within thirty (30) days from and after such
occurrence, to elect not to reconstruct the destroyed Premises, and in such event this Lease and the
tenancy hereby created shall cease as of the date of said occurrence and the Minimum Rent shall
abate as of that date.
12.4 Uninsured Casualty.  If the damage to the Premises or to the  Shopping Center is
caused by an uninsured casualty and the cost of repairing such damage exceeds Fifty Thousand
Dollars ($50,000), Landlord shall have the right to cancel and terminate this Lease which shall be
exercised by written notice delivered to Tenant within thirty (30) days from the occurrence.  Upon
the giving of such notice, the terms of this Lease shall expire by lapse of time upon the third day
after such notice is given, after which Tenant shall promptly vacate and surrender the Premises to
Landlord.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that the damage is caused by a casualty for
which Landlord is required to insure pursuant to the terms of the OEA, and Landlord fails to
maintain such insurance, then Landlord shall be required to repair  to the extent of such required
insurance coverage.
However, regardless of the cost of repairing the damage  described in Section s 12.2 and
12.3 above, Landlord shall have no obligation to repair and shall have the right to cancel and
terminate this Lease i f the Lease Term, or any extension thereof, shall have less than three (3)
years remaining, dated from anticipated completion of repairs, before it expires.

1366/128 5/11/23 - 14 - lease
12.5 Destruction of Shopping Center .  In th e event that fifty percent (50%) or more of
the entire Shopping Center shall be damaged or destroyed by a fire or other casualty, Landlord
shall have the right to elect to cancel and terminate this Lease which shall be exercised by written
notice delivered to Tenant within thirty (30) days from the occurrence.  Upon the giving of such
notice, the terms of this Lease shall expire by lapse of time upon the third (3rd) day after such
notice is given.
ARTICLE 13. EMINENT DOMAIN.
If the Premises are damaged by the exercise of the right of eminent domain or by the change
of grade of adjacent streets or other activity by a public authority, whether or not such damage
involves a physical taking of any portion of the Premises, this shall be considered a taking.  If the
extent of the taking is such that the Premises are no longer suitable for the purpose of the tenancy,
this shall be considered a total taking.  Any other taking shall be considered a partial taking.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Lease, Tenant may separately pursue claims against
the condemnor for the value of Tenant's personal property which Tenant is entitled to remove
under this Lease, moving costs, loss of business, and other claims it may l awfully have, but only
to the extent any such claims will not reduce Landlord's award.
13.1 Total Taking.  In the case of a total taking, th is Lease shall terminate on the date
the Premises are rendered unsuitable for the purposes of the tenancy and all compensation therefor,
whether fixed by agreement or judicial award, shall belong to Landlord except those portions of
the award that are specif ically allocated as compensation for actual expenses incurred by Tenant
for moving Tenant's fixtures, stock in trade and inventory and as compensation for the taking of
Tenant's fixtures and leasehold improvements which shall belong to Tenant.
13.2 Loss of Parking.  If more than thirty percent (30%) of the parking in the Shopping
Center is taken, said percentage to be determined based on the number of square feet of land taken,
Tenant, at its option, may terminate this Lease by written notice to Landlord within thirty (30) days
of such taking in which event the rent shall abate as of the date the notice is received and the
Premises are vacated, and Tenant shall have no claim against Landlord for the value of any expired
term of this Lease;
EXCEPT THAT:
a.  If Landlord notifies Tenant within fifteen (15) days of such taking that Landlord will
provide other parking located within the Shopping Center or on contiguous property that restores
parking to seventy-five percent (75%) of the parking spaces in the Shopping Center prior to the
taking, then this Lease shall remain in full force and effect.
b.  Existing highway and/or sidewalk right -of-way lines for public passage presently
bordering the Shopping Center may be extende d from their present location for the purpose of
widening highways and/or sidewalks, and such widening or extension shall not be considered a
taking or reduction of the parking area for purposes of this Lease.
13.3 Partial Taking .  In case of a partial taking and if this Lease is not terminated,
Landlord shall repair the Premises at its own expense, but Landlord shall not be obligated to
expend for such repairs an amount greater than the compensation received from the  condemning

1366/128 5/11/23 - 15 - lease
authority.  In case of any partial taking, all compensation paid by the condemning authority in
connection with the taking, whether fixed by agreement or judicial award, shall be paid to
Landlord, as provided in Section 13.1; and, if th is Lease is not terminated as above provided,
Minimum Rent shall be reduced proportionately on the basis which the square footage of that
portion of the Premises taken bears to the entire Premises.
ARTICLE 14. EXAMINATION OF PREMISES.
 During times other than normal Building hours, Tenant’s officers and employees or those
having business with Tenant may be required to identify themselves or show passes in order to
gain access to the Building.  Landlord shall h ave no liability for permitting or refusing to permit
access by anyone. Landlord shall have the right to enter upon the Premises at any time by passkey
or otherwise to determine Tenant’s compliance with this Lease, to perform necessary services,
maintenance, and repairs or alterations to the Building or the Premises, to post notices of
nonresponsibility, or to show the Premises to any prospective Tenant or purchaser.  Except in case
of emergency, such entry shall be at such times and in such manner as to mi nimize interference
with the reasonable business use of the Premises by Tenant, and shall be subject to Tenant’s
reasonable instructions and conditions on such entry relating to the protection of confidentiality
and personal privacy of Tenant or Tenants’ o fficers, employees, agents, assignees, subtenants,
concessionaires, licensees, contractors or invitees, and Landlord shall endeavor to provide advance
written notice to Tenant of such entry. In the event of entry by Landlord in the case of emergency,
Landlord shall take all commercially reasonable measures to protect such confidential and private
information located at the Premises.  Ninety (90) days prior to the expiration of the term of this
Lease or any extension thereof, Landlord or its agent may enter t he Premises, conduct a physical
inspection and place one (1) sign in the window of the Premises to advertise the Premises as
available for lease.
ARTICLE 15. ALTERATIONS AND FIXTURES.
 No alterations can be made to the Premises without written permission of Landlord, which
shall not be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned,  and, if required under the OEA,
subject to approval by  the Approving Parties .  All trade fixtures and other fixtures, and  all
machinery, equipment and/or other items or personal property placed in or upon the Premises by
Tenant and paid for by it shall be removed upon termination of this Lease, and any and all damage
caused by removal repaired by the last day of the term.  Tenant, its employees, agents, contractors,
vendors or suppliers shall not make, paint, drill or in any way deface any walls, ceilings, partitions,
floors, stone or iron work without Landlord's written consent. Notwithstanding anything herein to
the contrary, Tenant has the express permission from Landlord to install security cameras on the
exterior and interior of the Building, and install key cards for access at the exterior and interior of
the Building, at Tenant’s sole costs and expense.
ARTICLE 16. INTENTIONALLY DELETED.
ARTICLE 17. SIGNS.
 Tenant may install a lighted, building mounted storefront sign on each side of the Building,
at Tenant’s expense. Sign standards and control will be the responsibility of Landlord.  The type

1366/128 5/11/23 - 16 - lease
and location of Tenant's storefront sign, including all proprietary marks displayed outside the
Premises, must have (a) Landlord's approval and be in accordance with Exhibit "F" attached
hereto and made a part hereof, and (b) if required under the OEA, the approval of the Approving
Parties.  All signs shall be in conformance with all applicable local governmental codes and
regulations.  Tenant will maintain any signs in good condit ion and repair at all times, remove the
same at the expiration of th is Lease, and repair all damage caused by such erection, installation,
maintenance or removal, and Tenant shall save Landlord harmless from any damage caused by the
erection, installation, maintenance or removal of such signs.
 Tenant shall not, without Landlord's written consent, place on or about the Premises or the
Common Areas of the Shopping Center any advertising media including, without limitation, signs,
searchlights, flashing light s, loudspeakers, phonographs or other similar visual or audio media.
Tenant shall not place any window -coverings, decals, placards, advertisements, leasing signs for
subleasing purposes or other material in the glass windows or doors of Premises.  Tenant shall not
solicit business in, on, or about the Common Areas, merchandise from the Common Areas, or
distribute handbills or other advertising or promotional media in, on, or about the Common Areas,
or in the parking areas.  Landlord shall have the right to physically remove any such unauthorized
signs or advertising material without Tenant's recourse to Land lord, its agents or employees.
Landlord shall have no right to elect to retain any sign referencing Tenant (including any of its
departments, divisions or offices), or bearing any Tenant brand or insignia.
ARTICLE 18. WAIVER OF SUBROGATION RIGHTS.
18.1 Mutual Release.  Each of the parties hereto hereby waives any and all right of action
for negligence against the other party hereto which may thereafter arise for damage to the Premises,
to property therein, or the right to use and occupancy resulting from any fire or other casualty of
the kind covered by standard fire insurance policies with extended coverage, regardless of whether
or not or in what amounts such insurance is now or hereafter carried by the parties hereto, or either
of them, unless such waiver is expressly prohibited under the insurance pol icy or policies then in
force.
18.2 Non-Liability of Landlord.  Landlord shall not be liable for any damage to property
of Tenant or of others located on the Premises, nor the loss of or damage to any property of Tenant
or of others by theft or otherwise , except to the extent the injury or damage  arises as a result of
Landlord’s negligence or misconduct.  Landlord shall not be liable for injury or damage to property
resulting from fire, explosion, sprinklers, falling plaster, steam, gas, electricity, water, rain, snow
or leaks from the pipes, appliances, plumbing, roof, street or sub-surface, or from any other place
or from dampness , except to the extent the injury or damage arises as a result of Landlord’s
negligence or misconduct.  Tenant assumes the risk of all property kept or stored on the Premises
and shall hold Landlord harmless from any claims arising out of damage to the same, except to the
extent the injury or damage arises as a result of Landlord’s negligence or misconduct.  Tenant shall
give immediate notice to Landlord in case of fire or accidents on the Premises or in Tenant's
Premises or defects thereon or therein.
ARTICLE 19. INDEMNIFICATION.

1366/128 5/11/23 - 17 - lease
19.1 By Tenant.  Subject to the conditions and limitations of the Oregon Constitution
and the Oregon Tort Claims Act, ORS 30.260 through 30.300, including specifically subject to
and within the financial limits and conditions set forth at ORS 30.272 for local public bodies and
at ORS 30.273 for public bodies, Tenant agrees that it will at all times indemnify and hold Landlord
or its authorized representatives harmless against all actions, claims, demands, costs, damages, or
expense of any kind on account thereof, including attorney's fees and costs of defense, which  may
be brought or made against Landlord, or which Landlord may pay or incur, by reason of Tenant's
negligence or failure to perform any of its obligations under this Lease.
19.2 By Landlord.  Landlord agrees that it will at all times indemnify and hold Tenant
harmless against all actions, claims, demands, costs, damages, or expense of any kind on account
thereof, including costs of defense, which may be brought or made against Tenant, or which Tenant
may pay or incur, by reason of Landlord's negligence or failure to perform any of its obligations
under this Lease.
ARTICLE 20. WASTE AND LIENS.
Tenant covenants not to commit or suffer any strip or waste of the Premises and  to keep
the Premises free from all liens of every kind and description caused or incurred by any act or
omission of Tenant.
ARTICLE 21. ASSIGNMENT AND SUBLETTING.
Tenant shall not assign this Lease in whole or in part by operation of law or otherwise, nor
sublet all or any part of the Premises, without prior written consent of Landlord in each instance ,
provided that Landlord’s consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, delayed, or conditioned .
Landlord reserves the right to require the payment of a review fee of One Thousand Five Hundred
and 00/100 Dollars ($1,500.00) in connection with any proposed assignment or sublease. If Tenant
requests an assignment or sublease, Landlord shall have the right to approve or reject the proposed
assignment or sublease subject to the provisions of this Article 21, but shall not have a separate
right to terminate the Lease or recapture the proposed subleased premises based upon Tenant’s
request; provided that Tenan t’s failure to obtain Landlord’s approval as required herein shall
constitute a default under this Lease.
In the event of any subletting or assignment of the Premises, Tenant shall pay to Landlord,
as additional rent hereunder, any and all consideration received by Tenant for such assignment or
sublease, together with fifty percent (50%) of any net rent payable to Tenant, in excess of Tenant's
rent obligation to Landlord under this Lease.  For the mutual benefit of Tenant and Landlord,
Tenant shall use reas onable and good faith efforts to secure the consideration from any such
assignee or subtenant which would be generally equivalent to the then current rental market, but
in no event shall Tenant's monetary obligations to Landlord, as set forth in this Lease, be reduced.
Notwithstanding any assignment or sublease, Tenant shall remain fully liable on this Lease
and shall not be released from performing any of the terms, covenants and conditions of this Lease.
In addition to the foregoing, if at any time Tenant  requests that Landlord review any
consent or other agreement relating to the financing of Tenant's inventory or personal property on

1366/128 5/11/23 - 18 - lease
the Premises, Landlord may condition any consent to Tenant's reimbursement of all attorneys' fees
and costs incurred by Landlord in reviewing, negotiating, and approving such consent.
ARTICLE 22. SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS.
All rights, remedies, liability and obligations herein given to or imposed upon either of the
parties hereto shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the respective heirs, executors,
administrators, successors in interest and permitted assigns of the respective parties.
ARTICLE 23. HOLDING OVER.
Any holding over after the expiration of the term of this Lease, with or without consent of
Landlord, shall constitute a tenancy from month to month on the other terms and conditions
contained herein, except that the monthly Minimum Rent during the hold -over period will be not
less than one hundred twenty-five percent (125%) of the monthly Minimum Rent for the last month
of the Lease Term.
ARTICLE 24. SURRENDER.
Tenant covenants that at the end of the Lease Term, or any ren ewals thereof, or upon any
sooner termination of this Lease, to quit and deliver up the Premises to Landlord peaceably and
quietly and in as good order and condition, reasonable use and wear thereof, fire and other
unavoidable casualties excepted, as the same now are or may hereafter be put into during the term
of this Lease except as provided in Article 11.
ARTICLE 25. DEFAULT.
25.1 Default.  If Tenant defaults in the payment of Rent or any other sums due hereunder,
or if a trustee or receiver is appointed for Tenant's assets (and such appointment is not dismissed
within sixty (60) days), or if Tenant makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or, as to any
non-monetary default if Tenant fails to comply with any covenant, term or condition of this Lease,
within thirty (30) days after receipt by Tenant of notice in writing thereof given by Landlord to
Tenant specifying the failure or, in the case of a non -monetary default which reasonably requires
more than thirty (30) days to cure, if Tenant has not promptly commenced to cure the same and
not be diligently and continuously prosecuting such cure, then Landlord may:
(a) Declare the Term hereof ended and reenter the Premises and take possession
thereof and remove all persons therefrom, and Tenant shall have no further claim thereon or
hereunder; or
 (b) Without declaring this Lease terminated, reenter the Premises and occupy the
whole or any part thereof for and on account of Tenant and collect any unpaid rentals and other
charges, which have become payable, or which may thereafter become payable, as they become due;
or
 (c) Even though it may have reentered the Premises, thereafter elect to terminate
this Lease and all of the rights of Tenant in or to the Premises.

1366/128 5/11/23 - 19 - lease
If Landlord reenters the Premises under option (b) above, Landlord shall not be deemed to
have terminated this Lease or the liability of Tenant to pay any rental or other charges thereafter
accruing, or to have terminated Tenant's liability for damages under any of the provisions hereof, by
any such reentry or by any action, in unlawful detainer or otherwise, to obtain possession of the
Premises, unless Landlord shall have notified Tenant in writing that it has so elected to terminate this
Lease, and Tenant further covenants that the service by Landlord of any notice pursuant to the
unlawful detainer statutes and the surrender of possession pursuant to such notice shall not (unless
Landlord elects to the contrary to the time of or at any time subsequent to the serving of such notices
and such election is evidenced by written notice to Tenant) be deemed to be a termination of this
Lease.  If Landlord enters or takes possession of the Premises, Landlord shall have the right, but not
the obligation, to remove all or any of the personal property located therein and place the same in
storage at a public warehouse at the expense and risk of Tenant.
If Landlord elects to terminate this Lease pursuant to the provisions of options (a) or (c) above,
Landlord may recover from Tenant as damages, the following:
 (i) The worth at the time of award of any unpaid rental which had been earned at
the time of such termination; plus
 (ii) The worth at the time of award of the amount by which the unpaid rental which
would have been earned after termination until the time of award exceeds the amount of such rental
loss that could have been reasonably avoided; plus
 (iii) The worth at the time of award of the amount by which the unpaid rental for
the balance of the term after the time of award exceeds the amount of such rental loss that could be
reasonably avoided; plus
 (iv) Any other amount necessary to compensate Landlord for all the detriment
proximately caused by Tenant's failure to perform its obligations under this Lease or which in the
ordinary course of things would be likely to result therefrom, including, but not limited to, any costs
or expenses incurred by Landlord in (a) retaking possession of the Premises, including reasonable
attorneys' fees, (b) maintaining or preserving the Premises after such default, (c) preparing the
Premises for reletting to a new tenant, including repairs and any alterations to the Premises required
for such reletting (which alteration costs shall be prorated if the term of the new lease is longer than
the scheduled term of this Lease), (d) leasing commissions, and (e) any other costs necessary or
appropriate to relet the Premises; plus
 (v) At Landlord's election, such other amounts in addition to or in lieu of the
foregoing as may be permitted from time to time by the laws of the State of Oregon.
As used in items (i) and (ii) above, the "worth at the time of award" is computed by allowing
interest at the interest rate equal to five percent (5%) per annum over the p rime rate of interest
announced from time to time by Bank of America, N.A. As used in item (iii) above, the "worth at
the time of award" is computed by using a discount rate of four percent (4%).
For purposes of this Section 25.1 only, the terms "rent" and  "rental" shall be deemed to be
Minimum Rent and all additional rent and other sums required to be paid by Tenant pursuant to the
terms of this Lease.  All such sums shall, for the purpose of calculating any amount due under the

1366/128 5/11/23 - 20 - lease
provisions of item (iii) a bove, be computed on the basis of the average monthly amount thereof
accruing during the immediately preceding twelve (12) month period, except that if it becomes
necessary to compute such rent before such a twelve (12) month period has occurred then such rent
shall be computed on the basis of the average monthly amount hereof accruing during such shorter
period.
If after rent acceleration, and payment by Tenant of all sums due from it under this
Section 25.1, Landlord relets the Premises, and the net rental amount actually collected by Landlord
for what would have been the remaining balance of the scheduled term of this Lease exceeds the
amount of rental loss that could have been reasonably avoided under item (iii) above, both discounted
on the same basis, after taking into account all costs of reletting not paid by Tenant under item (iv)
above, then Landlord shall reimburse Tenant for the excess, as it is collected.
25.2 Legal Expenses.  If either party to this Lease consults an attorney in order to enforce
any of the terms of this Lease, the substantially prevailing party shall be entitled to reimbursement by
the non-prevailing party of the substantially prevailing party's reasonable costs and attorneys' fees,
whether such costs and attorneys' fees are incurred with or without litigation, in a bankruptcy court
(i.e., in a motion for assumption or rejection of this Lease, etc.), or on appeal.
25.3 Remedies Cumulative; Waiver.  Landlord's remedies hereunder are cumulative, and
not exclusive, and Landlord's exercise of any right or remedy shall not be deemed a waiver of, or
alter, affect or prejudice any other right or remedy which Landlord may have under this Lease or at
law or in equity, including the right to cure Tenant's default on Tenant's behalf and recover from
Tenant upon demand all costs and expenses incurred by Landlord in connection therewith, including
interest thereon at the rate stated in Section 25.1 from the date incurred until paid.  Neither the
acceptance of rent nor any other acts or omissions of Landlord at any time or times after the happening
of any default or breach by Tenant shall operate as a waiver of any past or future violation, breach or
failure to keep or perform any covenant, agreement, term or condition hereof or to deprive Landlord
of its right to cancel or forfeit this Lease, or estop Landlord from promptly exercising any other option,
right or remedy that it may have under any term or provisions of this Lease, or at law or in equity.

 25.4 Tenant Bankruptcy.  Tenant (as either debtor or debtor-in-possession) further agrees
that if a petition ("Petition") is filed by or against Tenant under any chapter of Title 11 of the United
States Code (the "Bankruptcy Code"), the following provisions shall apply:
   (a) Adequate protection for Tenant's obligations accruing after filing of
the Petition and before this Lease is rejected or assumed shall be provided within fifteen (15) days
after filing in the form of a security deposit equal to six (6) months' Minimum Rent and Additional
Rent to be held by the court or an escrow agent approved by Landlord and the court.
   (b) The sum of all amounts pay able by Tenant to Landlord under this
Lease constitutes reasonable compensation for the occupancy of the Premises by Tenant.
   (c) Tenant or the bankruptcy Trustee shall give Landlord at least thirty
(30) days written notice of any abandonment of the Prem ises or any proceeding relating to
administrative claims.  If Tenant abandons without notice, Tenant or the bankruptcy Trustee shall
stipulate to entry of an order for relief from stay to permit Landlord to reenter and relet the Premises.

1366/128 5/11/23 - 21 - lease
   (d) If Tenant failed to timely and fully perform any of its obligations under
this Lease before the filing of the Petition, whether or not Landlord has given Tenant written notice
of that failure and whether or not any time period for cure expired before the filing of the Petition,
Tenant shall be deemed to have been in default on the date the Petition was filed for all purposes
under the Bankruptcy Code.
   (e) For the purposes of Section 365(b)(1) of the Bankruptcy Code, prompt
cure of defaults shall mean cure within thirty (30) days after assumption.
  (f) For the purposes of Section 365(b)(1) and 365(f)(2) of the Bankruptcy
Code, adequate assurance of future performance of this Lease by Tenant, Trustee or any proposed
assignee will require that Tenant, Trustee or the proposed assignee deposit the amount specified in
Section 25.4(a) above an escrow fund (to be held by the court or an escrow agent approved by
Landlord and the court) as security for such future performance.  In addition, if this Lease is to be
assigned, adequate assurance of future performance by the proposed assignee shall require that:  (i)
the assignee have a tangible net worth not less than the tangible net worth of Tenant as of the
Commencement Date or that such assignee's performance be unconditionally guaranteed by a person
or entity that has a tangible net worth not less than the tangible net worth of Tenant as of the
Commencement Date; (ii) the assignee demonstrates that it possesses a history of success in operating
a business of similar size and complexity in a similar market as Tenant's business; and (iii) assignee
assumes in writing all of Tenant's obligations relating to the Premises or this Lease.
ARTICLE 27. SUBORDINATION.
This Lease shall be automatically subordinate to all of Landlord's mortgages or deeds of
trust which heretofore and hereafter affect the Premises , to any sale and leaseback, to any and all
advances made or to be made thereunder, to the interest on the obligations secured thereby, and to
all renewals, modifications, consolidations, replacements or extensions thereof.  This
subordination shall be self-operative, and no further instrument of subordination shall be necessary
to effect such subordination; nevertheless, Tenant shall  execute such additional instrument of
subordination as may be required by any Lender if such instrument of subordination shall provide
that so long as Tenant is not in default hereunder beyond the applicable cure period, Tenant shall
have continued enjoyment of the Premises free from any disturbance or interruption by reason of
any foreclosure of Lender's deed of trust or mortgage.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Landlord's
mortgagee(s) may subordinate the lien of their deed(s) of trust to this Lease by fi ling a notice of
subordination with the Multnomah County Recorder at any time before said mortgagee conducts
a sale or foreclosure.  In the event no such notice of subordination is filed prior to a sale or
foreclosure of any such mortgage or deed of trust,  or exercise of the power of sale thereunder, or
in the event of a transfer in lieu of foreclosure, Tenant shall attorn to the purchaser (or transferee)
of the Premises at such foreclosure or sale (the "New Owner") and recognize such New Owner as
Landlord under this Lease if so requested by New Owner.  Such attornment shall be self-operative
and no further instruments need be executed to effect such attornment.  If any Lender elects to
have this Lease superior to its mortgage or deed of trust and gives notice of its election to Tenant,
then this Lease shall thereupon become superior to the lien of such mortgage or deed of trust,
whether this Lease is dated or recorded before or after the mortgage or deed of trust.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, so long as Tenant is not in default under any term or provision of
this Lease and Tenant has executed a Subordination, Nondisturbance and Attornment Agreement

1366/128 5/11/23 - 22 - lease
that shall have been requested by such mortgagee, Tenant shall ha ve the continued enjoyment of
the Premises free from any disturbance or interruption by any mortgagee or beneficiary of a deed
of trust or any purchaser at a foreclosure or private sale of the Premises as the result of Landlord's
default under such mortgag e or deed of trust.  New Owner shall not be liable to cure prior
Landlords' defaults except that following a reasonable cure period, New Owner shall cure prior
Landlord defaults which are of a continuing nature and which New Owner had received notice of
prior to becoming the New Owner.  New Owner shall not be liable for the return of any security
deposit unless the deposit was actually delivered by Landlord to the New Owner, nor shall New
Owner be liable for rent paid by Tenant more than one (1) month in ad vance.  In the event of a
default in this Lease by Landlord which gives rise to a claim by Tenant that it might terminate this
Lease or abandon possession of the Premises, Tenant shall (a) give all mortgagees of record written
notice specifying the default , (b) not terminate this Lease or abandon possession if, within sixty
(60) days after receipt of such notice Landlord or mortgagee(s) (i)  cures or commences to cure
such default; (ii)  institutes a suit to foreclose their mortgage(s); or (iii)  otherwise pro ceeds to
acquire Landlord's interest, and thereafter proceeds with due diligence to conclude foreclosure or
acquisition.  Following written notice to Tenant by Landlord's mortgagee that Landlord is in
default and that Landlord's license to collect rent is revoked, Tenant shall thereafter pay all Rent
directly to Landlord's mortgagee.  In addition to the foregoing, within ten (10) days of Landlord's
request therefor, Tenant shall promptly execute and deliver to Landlord or third parties designated
by Landlor d, an estoppel certificate or letter in a form reasonably requested by Landlord, its
mortgage lender, or any prospective purchaser of the Shopping Center that correctly recites the
facts with respect to the existence, terms and status of this Lease.
ARTICLE 28. WAIVER.
The waiver by Landlord of any breach of any term, covenant or condition of this Lease
shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any past, present or future breach of the same or any other
term, covenant or c ondition of th is Lease.  The acceptance of rent by Landlord hereunder shall
never be construed to be a waiver of any term of this Lease.  No payment by Tenant or receipt by
Landlord of a lesser amount than shall be due according to the terms of this Lease shall be deemed
or construed to be other than on account of the earliest rent due nor shall any endorsement or
statement on any check or letter accompanying any payment be deemed to create an accord and
satisfaction.
ARTICLE 29. NOTICES.
Any notice by Tenant to Landlord must be served by certified or registered mail, postage
prepaid, addressed to Landlord at the address set forth below, or at such other address as Landlord
may designate by written notice.  Any notice by Landlord to Tenant must likewise be by certified
or registered mail postage prepaid, addressed to Tenant at the Premises or at the address given
below or at such other address as Tenant may designate by written notice.
Landlord:

Powell-Glisan Associates, L.L.C.
2625 Northup Way
Bellevue, WA 98004

1366/128 5/11/23 - 23 - lease
Attn: Property Management

Tenant:

Multnomah County Oregon
Department of County Assets
Facilities and Property Management Division
Attn: Dan Zalkow
401 N. Dixon Street
Portland, OR 97227
Email: dan.zalkow@multco.us

With a copy to:

Office of the Multnomah County Attorney
Attn: Andrew MacKendrick
501 SE Hawthorne Blvd., Suite 500
Portland, OR 97214
Email: andrew.mackendrick@multco.us

ARTICLE 30. RECORDING.
This Lease shall not be recorded except by agreement of both parties; but, upon request by
either party, the parties will execute a short form of this Lease containing the description of the
Premises, the provisions relating to the term of the Lease and a reference to this Lease.
ARTICLE 31. ATTORNEYS' FEES.
In the event of litigation between Landlord and Tenant and/or between the mortgagee of
Landlord and Tenant, or their successors or assigns, to enforce a right or rig hts provided by or
arising from this Lease, the non -prevailing party agrees to pay to the party who prevails, as
reimbursement for the prevailing party's attorneys' fees and other costs and expenses of litigation,
including any appellate proceedings, a sum  fixed by the court which the court shall deem
reasonable and just under the circumstances.  The amount of such required reimbursement shall
be included in the judgment for the prevailing party.  The court shall determine in any such
litigation which party is the prevailing party.
 Tenant further covenants and agrees that in case Landlord shall be made party to any
litigation commenced against Tenant, then Tenant shall pay all expenses, costs and reasonable
attorneys' fees incurred by or imposed on Landlord  in connection with such litigation, including
any appellate proceedings, and such expenses, costs and attorneys' fees as referred to herein shall
be additional rent due on the last rent day after service of notice of such payment or payments, ,
and shall be collected as any other rent specified herein unless such Landlord shall be so made a
party by reason of any independent liability of such Landlord caused by some act or omission on
the part of such Landlord and not resulting from any act or omission on the part of Tenant.
ARTICLE 32. TIME OF THE ESSENCE.

1366/128 5/11/23 - 24 - lease
Time is of the essence of this agreement.
ARTICLE 33. AMENDMENTS IN WRITING.
This Lease, including the exhibits and riders (if any), attached hereto and forming a part
hereof, shall constitute the entire agreement between the parties.  Each party to this Lease hereby
acknowledges and agrees that the other party has made no warranties, represen tations, covenants
or agreements, express or implied, to such party other than those expressly set forth herein, and
that each party, in entering into and executing this Lease, has relied upon no warranties,
representations, covenants or agreements other than those expressly set forth herein.
The parties further warrant and represent that there are no collateral agreements or external
conditions precedent or other circumstances which would justify the use of parole evidence to
supplement, add to, vary or de lete from this agreement or any term, condition or covenant
contained herein.
ARTICLE 34. EXPANSION BY OTHER TENANTS.
If Landlord should elect to grant to any tenant a right to expand their buildin gs, Landlord
shall not be obligated to replace any parking area or common area lost as a result of such expansion
and the use of land, common area or parking area therefor shall not be considered as a reduction
of any building-to-common-area ratio or building-to-parking-area ratio requirements of this Lease.
ARTICLE 35. CHANGES REQUESTED BY INSTITUTIONAL LENDER.
Tenant hereby agrees that if the institutional, permanent mortgagee, maki ng the loan for
the financing or refinancing of the Shopping Center, shall require as a condition to making any
loan secured by such mortgage that Tenant agrees to modifications of this Lease, then Tenant
agrees that it will enter into an agreement with La ndlord, in recordable form, making the
modifications that are requested by such lender, provided that such changes are reasonable.
However, in no circumstances shall Tenant be required to make any agreement that accomplishes
any of the following: Namely, changes the Premises demised; increases the rents; abridges or
changes the term; requires the expenditures of funds by Tenant which Tenant is not obligated to
expend under the terms of this Lease; or in any other manner enlarges Tenant's obligations under
this Lease.  The foregoing enumeration is not intended as a limitation on Tenant's right to refuse
to consent to a modification so long as Tenant acts reasonably.
ARTICLE 36. FORCE MAJEURE.
 In the event that e ither party hereto shall be delayed, hindered in, or prevented from the
performance of any act required hereunder by reason of strikes, lockouts, labor troubles, inability
to procure materials, failure of utilities, restrictive governmental laws or regulat ions, riots,
insurrection, war or any reason of a like nature, not the fault of the party delayed in performing
work or doing acts required under the terms of this Lease, then performance of such act shall be
excused for the period of such delay, provided that the provisions hereof shall not operate to excuse
Tenant from prompt payment of rent or any other payments required by Tenant hereunder.
ARTICLE 37. INTENTIONALLY DELETED.

1366/128 5/11/23 - 25 - lease

ARTICLE 38. NOTICE OF LEASE FORM.
 This lease form was selected for use by the parties hereto.  No representations or
recommendations as to the legality or correctness of this Shopping Center Lease document are
made by any ma naging agent, real estate broker or its agents or employees involved in the
execution of this Lease.  The parties have consulted or have been advised to consult an attorney of
their choice regarding the terms and conditions of this Lease.
ARTICLE 39. BROKERS.
 Tenant warrants that it has had no dealings with any real estate broker or agents in
connection with the negotiations of this Lease, other than Chris Schneider of Keller Williams
Realty ("Landlord’s Broker").  Landlord’s Broker will be compensated by Landlord under a
separate agreement between Landlord’s Broker and Landlord. Tenant knows of no other real estate
broker or agent who is entitled to a commission, finder's fee or other such compensation in
connection with this Lease, and agrees to indemnify and hold Landlord harmless from and against
any and all liability arising from or relating to claims of brokerage commissions, finders' fees or
other such compensation, arising from or relating to claims made by or through Tenant.
ARTICLE 40. AUTHORITY.
 The individual executing this Lease on behalf of Tenant represents and warrants that
Tenant's execution of this Lease has been duly authorized by all necessary action of  Tenant, and
that the individual has the full power and authority to enter into this Lease on behalf of Tenant and
to bind Tenant to the terms and conditions hereof.
ARTICLE 41. PARTIAL INVALIDITY.
 If any provision of this Lease or the application of any provision to any person or
circumstance shall to any extent be invalid, the remainder of this Lease or the application of such
provision to persons or circumstances other than those as to which it is he ld invalid shall not be
affected and each provision of this Lease shall be valid and enforced to the fullest extent permitted
by law.
ARTICLE 42. GOVERNING LAW.
 42.1 Forum, Personal Jurisdiction, and Service of Process. The interpretation of this Lease
shall be governed by the laws of the State of Oregon.  The parties expressly and irrevocably agree
that either party may bring any action or claim to enforce the provisions of this Lease in the State of
Oregon, County of Multnomah, and both parties irrevocably consent to personal jurisdiction in the
State of Oregon for the purposes of any such action or claim.  The parties further irrevocably consent
to service of process in accordance with the provisions of the laws of the State of Oregon.
 42.2 Limitation of County Liability. Tenant’s liabilities and obligations pursuant to this
Lease are subject to the conditions and limitations of the Oregon Constitution and the Oregon Tort
Claims Act, ORS 30.260 through 30.300, including specifically subject to and within the financial

1366/128 5/11/23 - 26 - lease
limits and conditions set forth at ORS 30.272 for local public bodies and at ORS 30.273 for public
bodies.
ARTICLE 43. RECOURSE BY TENANT.
 Anything in this Lease to the contrary notwithstanding, Tenant agrees that it shall look solely
to the Shopping Center and the rents and profits arising therefrom for the collection of any judgment
or other judicial process requiring the payment of money by Landlord on any default or breach by
Landlord with respect to any of the terms, covenants, and conditions of this Lease to be observed
and/or performed by Landlord, and no other asset of Landlord shall be subject to levy, execution or
other procedures for the satisfaction of Tenant's remedies.
ARTICLE 44. ORS DISCLOSURE.
BEFORE SIGNING OR ACCEPTING THIS INSTRUMENT, THE PERSON
TRANSFERRING FEE TITLE SHOULD INQUIRE ABOUT THE PERSON'S RIGHTS, IF
ANY, UNDER ORS 197.352.

THIS INSTRUMENT DOES NOT ALLOW USE OF THE PROPERTY DESCRIBED IN
THIS INSTRUMENT IN VIOLATION OF APPLICABLE LAND USE LAWS AND
REGULATIONS. BEFORE SIGNING OR ACCEPTING THIS INSTRUMENT, THE PERSON
ACQUIRING FEE TITLE TO THE PROPERTY SHOULD CHE CK WITH THE
APPROPRIATE CITY OR COUNTY PLANNING DEPARTMENT TO VERIFY THAT THE
UNIT OF LAND BEING TRANSFERRED IS A LAWFULLY ESTABLISHED LOT OR
PARCEL, AS DEFINED IN ORS 92.010 OR 215.010, TO VERIFY THE APPROVED USES OF
THE LOT OR PARCEL, TO DETERMINE ANY LI MITS ON LAWSUITS AGAINST
FARMING OR FOREST PRACTICES, AS DEFINED IN ORS 30.930, AND TO INQUIRE
ABOUT THE RIGHTS OF NEIGHBORING PROPERTY OWNERS, IF ANY, UNDER ORS
197.352.
LANDLORD:
POWELL - GLISAN ASSOCIATES, L.L.C., a
Washington limited liability company

By
    Lauren R. Powell, Manager
Date:

1366/128 5/11/23 - 27 - lease

TENANT:
MULTNOMAH COUNTY , an Oregon political
subdivision

By
             Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
Date:

APPROVED AS TO FORM:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON

By: ______________________________________
Andrew MacKendrick, Sr. Assistant County Attorney
Dated: __________, 2023

1366/128 5/11/23 - 28 - lease
STATE OF WASHINGTON )
    ) ss.
COUNTY OF ___________ )

 On this _______ day of _______________, 2023, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public
in and for the State of Washington, duly commissioned and sworn personally appeared Lauren R.
Powell, known to me to be the Manager of POWELL - GLISAN ASSOCIATES, L.L.C., the
limited liability company that executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged the said
instrument to be the free and voluntary act and deed of said limited liability company, for the purposes
therein mentioned, and on oath stated that he/she was authorized to execute said instrument.

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that the person appearing before me and
making this acknowledgment is the person whose true signature appears on this document.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in the certificate above
written.

     Signature

     Print Name
     NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of
     Washington, residing at   .
     My commission expires   .

1366/128 5/11/23 - 29 - lease
STATE OF OREGON   )
     ) ss.
COUNTY OF MULTNOMAH )

 On this _______ day of _______________, 2023, before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public
in and for the State of Oregon, duly commissioned and sworn personally appeared Jessica Vega
Pederson, known to me to be the Chair of MULTNOMAH COUNTY , an Oregon political
subdivision, the entity that executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged the said instrument
to be its free and voluntary act and deed, for the purposes therein mentioned, and on oath stated that
she was authorized to execute said instrument.

 I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that the person appearing before me and
making this acknowledgment is the person whose true signature appears on this document.

 WITNESS my hand and official seal hereto affixed the day and year in the certificate above
written.

     Signature

     Print Name
     NOTARY PUBLIC in and for the State of
     Oregon, residing at   .
     My commission expires   .

1366/128 5/11/23 - i - lease
EXHIBIT "A"
LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF SHOPPING CENTER
Lot 1, Lot 3, Lot 4, Lot 5, Lot 6, and Lot 7, "GLISAN STREET STATION," in the City of Portland,
County of Multnomah, State of Oregon.

1366/128 5/11/23 - i - lease
EXHIBIT "B"
SITE PLAN

1366/128 5/11/23 - i - lease
EXHIBIT "C"
LANDLORD’S WORK

(a) Landlord agrees to furnish or perform, at Landlord’s sole cost and expense, those items of
construction and those improvements, utilizing a contractor selected by Landlord (the “ Landlord’s Work”) specified
on the plans prepared for Landlord and mutually approved by Landlord and Tenant based upon (i) the Scope of Work,
shown on Exhibit C-1 attached hereto and incorporated herein for all purposes, and (ii)  the Floor Plan as shown on
Exhibit C-2 attached hereto and incorporated herein for all purposes.
(b) Landlord shall  engage Leeka Architecture and Planning (“Landlord’s Architect ”) to prepare and
Landlord and Tenant shall agree to and approved all final construction documents, and mechanical, electrical and
plumbing drawings necessary to construct Landlord’s Work (collectively the “ Drawings”) which s hall be used by
Landlord to obtain final bids for the construction of Landlord’s Work.  The Drawings shall be prepared in accordance
with, and comply with, all applicable laws, ordinances and regulations including, without limitation, the ADA. If
Tenant fails to provide comments or approve the Drawings within ten (10) business days following receipt of the
Drawings, Tenant shall be deemed to have approved the Drawings. Landlord will obtain all necessary permits, licenses
and approvals necessary for the construction of Landlord’s Work.
(c) Promptly following Tenant’s approval (or deemed approval) of the Drawings, Landlord shall cause
Landlord’s Work to be constructed in accordance with the Drawings, as the same may be revised in accordance with
Paragraph (d) below.
(d) If Tenant shall desire any changes in Landlord’s Work, Tenant shall so advise Landlord in writing
and Landlord shall determine whether such changes can be made in a reasonable and feasible manner.  Landlord will
notify Tenant in writing of any additional costs and any construction delays attributable to the change and whether or
not Landlord approves or disapproves of the requested change.  Any and all costs of reviewing any requested changes,
and any net cost increases as a result of making any changes to Landlord’s Work which Tenant may request and which
Landlord may agree to shall be at Tenant’s sole cost and expense and shall be paid to Landlord upon demand and
before execution of the change order.
(e) Landlord shall proceed with and complete the construc tion of Landlord’s Work. As soon as such
improvements have been Substantially Completed, Landlord shall notify Tenant in writing of the date that Landlord’s
Work are Substantially Completed.  Within three (3) business days after receiving Landlord’s notice , Tenant will
inspect the Premises for any deficiencies.  A “punch list” of deficiencies will be prepared by Landlord and Tenant and
Landlord will promptly correct defective items stated in the punch list.  The existence of minor punch list items will
not postpone the Commencement Date of the Lease or result in a delay or abatement of Tenant’s obligation to pay
rent or give rise to a damage claim against Landlord.  Landlord agrees to use commercially reasonable efforts to
complete all punch list items within thirty (30) days after receiving the punch list from Tenant.
(f) The Landlord’s Work shall be deemed substantially completed (“ Substantially Completed”, or any
grammatical variant thereof) when, (i) a temporary certificate of occupancy (or its equivalent) is issued for the
Premises by the City of Portland, and (ii) the Premises are substantially completed except for punch list items which
do not prevent in any material way Tenant’s use of the Premises for the Permitted Use.  In the event Tenant, its
employees, agents, or contractors cause construction of such Landlord’s Work to be delayed, the date of Substantial
Completion shall be deemed to be the date that, in the opinion of Landlord’s Architect, Substantial Completion would
have occurred if such delays h ad not taken place.  Without limiting the foregoing, Tenant shall be solely responsible
for delays caused by Tenant’s request for any changes in the plans, Tenant’s request for long lead items or Tenant’s
interference with the construction of Landlord’s Work (each of the foregoing, a “Tenant Delay”).
(g) The failure of Tenant to take possession of or to occupy the Premises shall not serve to relieve
Tenant of obligations arising on the Commencement Date or delay the payment of Rent by Tenant.

1366/128 5/11/23 - ii - lease
(h) Except for incomplete punch list items, Tenant upon the Commencement Date shall have and hold
the Premises as the same shall then be without any liability or obligation on the part of Landlord for making any
further alterations or improvements of any kind in or about the Premises, except for Landlord’s maintenance and repair
obligations under the Lease.

1366/128 5/11/23 - iii - lease

EXHIBIT C-1

LANDLORD’S WORK – SCOPE OF WORK

Old Rodda Space:

● Convert Restroom 126 into current ADA compliance with outward door swing.
Add three additional single occupant restrooms adjacent: rooms 127, 128 and 129.
Provide ADA compliant grab bars and toilet accessories.
● RR #125 - add wall, ADA compliant countertop and 3 sinks.
● Corr 130 - add walls and install ADA compliant drinking fountain/bottle filler
station.
● Room 132 - add walls and ADA compliant upper and lower casework, countertops
and sinks.  Include clear opening for tenant-installed 24”W dishwasher in casework.
● Room 134A - Utility Room - add walls and double doors.
● Room 135 - Provide access panel to main water shutoff to open office area.
● Room 136 & 137 - Add huddle rooms.
● Room 151 - New ADA compliant upper and lower casework, countertop and sink.
● Room 152 - New ADA compliant restroom. Provide ADA compliant grab bars and
toilet accessories.
● Room 153 - Add Storage Room.
● New interior paint throughout.
● Patch/repair subfloor and install new flooring and wall base throughout: Flooring
material transitions noted in blue on proposed floor plan between carpet tile (CPT)
and hard surface (resilient) flooring (HSF).
● Replace missing ceiling tiles throughout.
● Relocate any light fixtures that are directly adjacent to HVAC supply vents in the
ceiling grid.
● Install gyp. bd. ceiling in rooms 126, 127, 128, 129, and 152.
● Install new ceiling tile, ceiling grid system and li ghting in rooms 125, 130, 132,
134, and 134A.
● Add interior doors to access adjacent suite and rooms per proposed floor plan.
(CORR 118 & Reception 103/CORR 105).
● Install new acoustical batt insulation in new walls and in existing walls if none
exists.
● Demo gyp. bd. column wrap at NW column.
● Provide black -out film/paint at exterior windows covered by interior walls at
Rooms 126, 127, 128, 129 and 152.
● Repair existing concrete block planter on east side.

 Old Dental Space:

● New interior paint throughout.

1366/128 5/11/23 - iv - lease
● New flooring and wall base throughout: Transitions noted on proposed floor plan
between carpet tile and hard surface (resilient) flooring.  Prepare subfloor for IT
room 122 to receive tenant-installed static dissipative tile flooring.
● New doors are shown in red:
○ 42” wide doors have been notated in blue text;
○ All other non-notated doors to be 36” width.
● Install new corridor doors:
○ Between CORR 105 and CORR 118.
○ Between CORR 108 and CORR 118.
● Add interior doors to access adjacent suite:
○  CORR 105 & RECEPT 103.
○  CORR 118  & CORR 130 (Double doors).
● Room 100 - Expand the main entrance door for ADA accessibility and provide
ADA automatic door opener.
● Room 100 - Install ADA compliant drinking fountain/bottle filler station.
● Reception 103 - Install 60” wide x 48” high one -way mirror window (shown in
red).
● Demo existing casework and soffit at Waiting 100/Reception 103.  Provide new
transaction casework, dividers, and clear acrylic screens with ADA compliant
transaction surface heights.  See refe rence photo of SEHC reception desk on the
last page.
● Restroom 101 - Provide ADA compliant toilet, sink, grab bars and toilet
accessories.
● Restroom 102 - Convert into current ADA compliance and adjust fixture layout to
west wall and door location on east wall.  Provide ADA compliant toilet, sink, grab
bars, toilet accessories, and wall-mounted diaper changing station on north wall.
● Restrooms 101 and 102 - Install gyp. bd. ceiling in.
● Reconfigure existing acoustical ceiling system in suite for new wall layout.
● Install new acoustical batt insulation in new walls and in existing walls if none
exists.
● IT 122 - Provide new double doors and install ¾” fire-rated plywood on east, south
and west walls.
● Add the following Rooms:
○ 109 + add exterior door
○ Rooms 110, 111, 112, 113, 114, 115, 116, 117 and 119.
● Existing casework to remain at Mail 104.  Existing casework and sink to remain at
Hud/Lac 131.
● Retain existing sink and toilet in Room 107.
● Add van accessible designated parking space and signage adjacent to existing ADA
parking space near new main entrance.

1366/128 5/11/23 - v - lease
EXHIBIT C-2

FLOOR PLAN OF PREMISES

1366/128 5/11/23 - i - lease
EXHIBIT "D"
TENANT’S WORK

 Tenant shall be responsible for completing and doing all other work to the demised
Premises including, but not limited to, the items listed below:

1. Tenant will provide and install floor covering beyond that described in Landlord’s Work.
Tenant shall be responsible for floor prep including moisture control beneath Tenant’s floor
covering.

2. Tenant will provide and install pa rtition walls other than those provided for under
Landlord's Work.

3. Tenant will furnish and install all painting and wall finishing beyond that described in
Landlord’s Work.

4. Tenant shall provide and install any plumbing and fixtures which it may des ire in excess
of Landlord's Work.  If Tenant elects to install an additional toilet room it shall be required
to construct and complete an exhaust system and separate incandescent light including "J"
box, conduit and wiring at its sole cost and expense and  in conformance with applicable
building codes.  All roof penetration must be subject to the terms of the Lease and approved
by Landlord.

5. Tenant shall be responsible for the complete fabrication and installation of its business
name sign in accordance with Landlord's sign criteria.

6. Tenant shall complete its electrical system.

7. Telephones, music system, security devices, if required, shall be provided by Tenant.

8. Tenant shall furnish and install all fixtures, furniture and equipment necessary to open for
business.

9.      Tenant shall furnish all additional IT, power/data throughout space and any other low
voltage work.

10.       Tenant shall install dissipative tile in IT room 122.

1366/128 5/11/23 - ii - lease
EXHIBIT “E”
PROHIBITED USES
The Premises shall not be  used for an automotive, maintenance or repair facility, a
secondhand or surplus store, or for entertainment or recreational facility or training or educational
facility.  The phrase "entertainment or recreational facility" shall include, without limitation, a
theater, bowling alley, skating rink, gym, health spa or studio, dance hall, billiard or pool hall,
massage parlor, game parlor or video arcade (which shall be defined as any store containing more
than six (6) electronic games).  " Training or educatio nal facility " shall include, without
limitation, a beauty school, barber college, reading room, place of instruction or any other
operation catering primarily to students or trainees as opposed to customers.
The Premises shall not be used as a bar, tavern, cocktail lounge, adult book or adult video
store, hotel, motel, car wash, warehouse, animal kennel, mobile home park or trailer court; for the
renting, leasing, or selling of or displaying for the purpose of renting, leasing, or selling of any
boat, motor vehicle or trailer; or for industrial purposes; or for any bankruptcy sales or going out
of business sales.
The Premises shall not be used for the sale of groceries or prescription drugs.
The Premises shall not be used for the sale of pizza.
The Premises shall not be used for the sale of wireless phones, devices or related
accessories.
The Premises shall not be used for the provision of general dentistry, orthodontics, oral,
periodontal and cosmetic surgery, dental implants or other related services.

1366/128 5/11/23 - 3 - lease
EXHIBIT "F"
SIGN CRITERIA
 These criteria have been established for the purpose of assuring a coordinated sign program
for the mutual benefit of all tenants. Tenant shall be responsible for the fulfillment of all
requirements and specifications. All signs must be in conformance with  the terms and conditions
of the Operation and Easement Agreement for Glisan Street Station.  Conformance will be strictly
enforced.  Any installed non-conforming or unapproved sign must be brought into conformance at
the non-conforming tenant's expense.
1. Tenant shall submit or cause to be submitted to Landlord for approval before
fabrication at least three (3) copies of the detailed drawings indicating the location, size, layout,
design and color of the proposed signs, including all lettering and/or graphics, and an elevation.
2. All permits for signs and their installation shall be obtained by Tenant or his
representative at Tenant's expense. All signs shall be constructed, installed and maintained at
Tenant's expense.
3. Signs shall be permitted only within t he sign fascia areas as designated by
Landlord's architect or agent.
4. Tenant is required to install individual Channelume -style letters mounted on a
raceway painted to match the building façade. Letters shall not be larger than twenty -four (24)
inches in height. The overall length of the sign shall not exceed seventy-five percent (75%) of the
frontage of the Premises. The sign shall not extend beyond the sign fascia area.
5. Signs shall be centered in respect to Tenant's store space, or in the event the
rooflines of the adjacent buildings do not permit the sign to be centered as such, shall be centered
in respect to Tenant's entry door into the shop.
6. No signs of any sort shall be permitted on building roof. No signs perpendicular to
the base of the building or storefront will be permitted.
7. Wording of a sign shall not include the product sold except as a part of Tenant's
trade name or insignia. All of Tenant's store identification designs shall be subject to the approval
of Landlord.
8. No sign or any portion thereof may project above the fascia on which it is mounted.
9. Exposed neon tubing and painted lettering will not be permitted.
10. Flashing, moving or audible signs will not be permitted.
11. Pylon or pole signs will not be permitted.

1366/128 5/11/23 - 4 - lease
12. All electrical signs shall bear the UL label, and their installation must comply with
all local building and electrical codes. Lighting shall be provided by internal minimum sixty (60)
milliamp mercury tubes.
13. No exposed conduit or tubing will be permitted.
14. No exposed neon lighting shall be used on signs, symbols or decorative elements.
Transformers and other equipment shall be concealed.
15. Electrical service to all signs shall be on Tenant meters.
16. All signs, frames and retainers must be constructed of dark bronze anodized
aluminum. No black iron materials of any type will be permitted.
17. No sign maker's label or other identification will be permitted on the exposed
surface of the sign, except for those required by local ordinance which later will be placed in an
inconspicuous location.
Tenant will be permitted to place upon each entrance to his demised Premises not more
than one hundred forty four (144) square inches of gold leaf or decal application lettering not to
exceed two (2) inches in height, indicating hours of business, emergency telephone, etc.

1366/128 4/13/23  lease

GLISAN STREET STATION

1366/128 5/11/23 - i - lease
GLISAN STREET STATION
TENANT:  MULTNOMAH COUNTY

ARTICLE 1. PREMISES, TERM, AND CONTINGENCY .....................................................1
1.1 Premises ...........................................................................................................................1
1.2 OEA .................................................................................................................................1
1.3 Lease Term.......................................................................................................................1
1.4 Extension Option .............................................................................................................1
ARTICLE 2. RENT ...................................................................................................................3
2.1 Deposit (Prepaid Rent) .....................................................................................................3
2.2 Minimum Rent .................................................................................................................3
2.3 Common Area Charge .....................................................................................................4
2.4 Place of Payment..............................................................................................................6
ARTICLE 3. CONSTRUCTION AND DELIVERY ................................................................6
3.1 Construction .....................................................................................................................6
3.2 Tenant's Work ..................................................................................................................6
ARTICLE 4. USE OF PREMISES ............................................................................................6
4.1 Business ...........................................................................................................................7
4.2 Legal Compliance ............................................................................................................7
4.3 Prohibited Activities and Uses .........................................................................................7
4.4 Hazardous Materials .........................................................................................................7
ARTICLE 5. QUIET ENJOYMENT.........................................................................................8
ARTICLE 6. UTILITIES ...........................................................................................................8
ARTICLE 7. HVAC ..................................................................................................................9
ARTICLE 8. TAXES AND OTHER ASSESSMENTS ............................................................9
8.1 Real Estate Taxes and Assessments .................................................................................9
8.2 Personal Property Taxes ..................................................................................................9
8.3 Miscellaneous Taxes ........................................................................................................9
ARTICLE 9. MAINTENANCE OF PARKING AND OTHER COMMON AREAS AND OF
ABUTTING AREAS .....................................................................................................................10
9.1 Parking ...........................................................................................................................10
9.2 Traffic Flow ...................................................................................................................10
9.3 Employee Parking .......................................................... Error! Bookmark not defined.
ARTICLE 10. MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF PREMISES ...........................................10
10.1 Tenant's Obligation ........................................................................................................10
10.2 Landlord's Obligation ....................................................................................................11
10.3 Failure to Repair ............................................................................................................11
ARTICLE 11. INSURANCE .....................................................................................................11
11.1 Public Liability and Property Damage ...........................................................................11
11.2 Tenant's Property Insurance ...........................................................................................11
11.3 Plate Glass Insurance .....................................................................................................12
11.4 Landlord's Property Insurance .......................................................................................12
11.5 Business Income/Loss of Rents .....................................................................................13
ARTICLE 12. DESTRUCTION OF PREMISES .....................................................................13

1366/128 5/11/23 - ii - lease
12.1 Fully Tenantable ............................................................................................................13
12.2 Partially Untenantable ....................................................................................................13
12.3 Totally Untenantable ......................................................................................................13
12.4 Uninsured Casualty ........................................................................................................13
12.5 Destruction of Shopping Center.....................................................................................14
ARTICLE 13. EMINENT DOMAIN ........................................................................................14
13.1 Total Taking ...................................................................................................................14
13.2 Loss of Parking ..............................................................................................................14
13.3 Partial Taking .................................................................................................................14
ARTICLE 14. EXAMINATION OF PREMISES .....................................................................15
ARTICLE 15. ALTERATIONS AND FIXTURES ..................................................................15
ARTICLE 16. INTENTIONALLY DELETED ........................................................................15
ARTICLE 17. SIGNS ................................................................................................................15
ARTICLE 18. WAIVER OF SUBROGATION RIGHTS ........................................................16
18.1 Mutual Release...............................................................................................................16
18.2 Non-Liability of Landlord..............................................................................................16
ARTICLE 19. INDEMNIFICATION........................................................................................16
19.1 By Tenant .......................................................................................................................17
19.2 By Landlord ...................................................................................................................17
ARTICLE 20. WASTE AND LIENS ........................................................................................17
ARTICLE 21. ASSIGNMENT AND SUBLETTING ..............................................................17
ARTICLE 22. SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS .......................................................................18
ARTICLE 23. HOLDING OVER .............................................................................................18
ARTICLE 24. SURRENDER ....................................................................................................18
ARTICLE 25. DEFAULT .........................................................................................................18
25.1 Default............................................................................................................................18
25.2 Legal Expenses ..............................................................................................................20
25.3 Remedies Cumulative; Waiver........................................................................................20
25.4 Tenant Bankruptcy ..........................................................................................................20
ARTICLE 26. LANDLORD’S LIEN ........................................ Error! Bookmark not defined.
ARTICLE 27. SUBORDINATION ...........................................................................................21
ARTICLE 28. WAIVER............................................................................................................22
ARTICLE 29. NOTICES ...........................................................................................................22
ARTICLE 30. RECORDING ....................................................................................................23
ARTICLE 31. ATTORNEYS' FEES .........................................................................................23
ARTICLE 32. TIME OF THE ESSENCE.................................................................................23
ARTICLE 33. AMENDMENTS IN WRITING ........................................................................24
ARTICLE 34. EXPANSION BY OTHER TENANTS .............................................................24
ARTICLE 35. CHANGES REQUESTED BY INSTITUTIONAL LENDER ..........................24
ARTICLE 36. FORCE MAJEURE ...........................................................................................24
ARTICLE 37. RULES AND REGULATIONS ........................................................................24
ARTICLE 38. NOTICE OF LEASE FORM .............................................................................25
ARTICLE 39. BROKERS .........................................................................................................25
ARTICLE 40. AUTHORITY. ...................................................................................................25
ARTICLE 41. PARTIAL INVALIDITY. .................................................................................25
ARTICLE 42. GOVERNING LAW. .........................................................................................25

1366/128 5/11/23 - iii - lease
ARTICLE 43. RECOURSE BY TENANT. ..............................................................................26
ARTICLE 44. ORS DISCLOSURE. .........................................................................................26

EXHIBIT "A" LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF SHOPPING CENTER
EXHIBIT "B" SITE PLAN
EXHIBIT "C" LANDLORD'S WORK
EXHIBIT “C-1” SCOPE OF WORK
EXHIBIT "C-2” FLOOR PLAN
EXHIBIT "D" TENANT’S WORK
EXHIBIT "E" PROHIBITED USES
EXHIBIT “F” SIGN CRITERIA