BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
RESOLUTION NO. 2020-005
Authorizing the County Chair to Execute a Second Amendment to an Intergovernmental
Agreement with the Portland Development Commission, doing business as Prosper
Portland, for the Administration of the PropertyFit Program.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
A. In 2015, Multnomah County ("County") established the Commercial Property
Assessed Clean Energy ("CPACE") program in Resolution 2015-097. The CPACE
program facilitates private loans to commercial, industrial, and certain multifamily
residential building owners and developers to assist with financing energy­
efficiency upgrades, renewable energy development such as roof-top solar,
energy storage, electric vehicle storage, water efficiency and seismic rehabilitation
projects. Those private loans are secured by a lien on the property that has the
same priority as a lien for assessments for local improvements.
B. "PropertyFit" is the branded name for the CPACE program.
C. In Resolution 2015-098, the Board of County Commissioners authorized the
County Chair to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement ("IGA") with the
Portland Development Commission, now doing business as Prosper Portland
("Prosper Portland"), to serve as the PropertyFit program administrator.
D. In 2016, the County and Prosper Portland executed the First Amendment to the
IGA to, among other things, recognize statutory changes that allowed . the
PropertyFit program to help with financing for seismic rehabilitation.
E. To align the PropertyFit program with national best practices, the County's
enforcement mechanism for PropertyFit liens will transition from certifying
delinquent liens to the tax rolls to the mechanism described in the local
improvement district statutes, ORS 223.505 to 223.650, as authorized by ORS
223.680(7)(c) and ORS 223.685(6)(c).
F. Through this partnership with Prosper Portland, and their work as program
administrator for PropertyFit, Multnomah County is able to make progress on
Climate Action Plan goals while minimizing administrative burdens to County
programs.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves:
1. The County Chair is authorized to sign the Second Amendment to the
Intergovernmental Agreement Between Portland Development Commission (doing
business as Prosper Portland) and Multnomah County for the Administration of the
PropertyFit Program (formerly CPACE Program) in Multnomah County, in
substantially the same form attached hereto as Exhibit 1. Board approval is needed
for any modification or amendment that results in a material increase or decrease
in the obligations of, or benefits to, the County under the IGA or the Second
Amendment.
ADOPTED this 9 th day of January, 2020.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
~~
Deborah Kafoury, Chair
SECOND AMENDMENT
to
INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
Between Portland Development Commission ( doing business as Prosper Portland)
and
Multnomah County
For the Administration of the Property Fit Program (formerly CP ACE Program) in
Multnomah County
This second amendment ("Second Amendment") to the Intergovernmental Agreement for
the Administration of the Property Fit Program (the "IGA") is authorized by ORS 190.010 and is
made and entered into as of January 17, 2020 (the "Effective Date"), by and between Multnomah
County (the "County"), a political subdivision of the state of Oregon, and Portland Development
Commission ("PDC"), doing business as Prosper Portland ("Prosper Portland"), in its capacity as
an urban renewal agency under ORS Chapter 457 and Chapter 15 of the City of Portland Charter.
County and Prosper Portland may be referred to jointly in this Second Amendment as the
"Parties" and individually as a "Efil1y."
RECITALS
A. The Parties entered into the IGA on September 22, 2015. On December 21, 2016, the
Parties signed the first amendment to the IGA ("First Amendment"). The IGA and its
First Amendment authorize and delegate the PDC, to act on behalf of County, as the
Program Administrator of the Multnomah County Property Fit Program ("Property Fit
Program"), formerly the Commercial Property Assessed Clean Energy Program
("CPA CE").
B. Certain modifications to the collection process agreed to by the Parties have made it
necessary to amend the I GA.
C. The Parties agree to amend the IGA to include Prosper Portland's enforcement role in the
default collection process authorized pursuant to ORS 223.680(7)(c) and 223.685(6)(c).
DEFINITIONS
As used in this Second Amendment, the capitalized terms below are defined as follows.
"Acts" means ORS 223.680 and 223.685, as amended.
"Benefit Assessment Lien" means the special assessment lien levied against the Qualifying Real
Property securing the PropertyFit Financing, pursuant to ORS 223.680(7)(a) and 223.685(6)(a).
"Building Resiliency Improvements" means those certain utility and seismic rehabilitation
improvements to the Qualifying Real Property that meet the requirements of the Acts and
Program Guide.
"Capital Provider" means the entity that is providing financing under the PropertyFit Program.
"Capital Provider Agreement" means the agreement entered into by Capital Provider and the
Program Administrator as part of the Property Fit Financing transaction.
"Closing Documents" mean the Financing Agreement, the Capital Provider Agreement, the
Notice of Benefit Assessment Lien and any other agreements executed in connection with the
PropertyFit Financing transaction.
"Financing Agreement" means the agreement entered into by the Capital Provider and the
Property Owner as part of the PropertyFit Financing transaction.
"Notice of Benefit Assessment Lien" means the lien the Program Administrator records against
the Qualifying Real Property, securing the PropertyFit Financing pursuant to the Act.
"Program Administrator" means Prosper Portland, acting on behalf of County under this IGA, as
amended.
"Program Guide" means the guide, published by and periodically updated by the Program
Administrator, that documents the statutory and program requirements to which PropertyFit
Program participants must adhere. The current version of the Program Guide may be found at
http ://wv-.rw. propertyfitoregon. com/resources.
"Property Owner" means the legal owner of title to the Qualifying Real Property.
"Property Owner Agreement" means the agreement entered into by the Program Administrator
and the Property Owner agreeing to the terms of the PropertyFit Financing transaction.
"PropertyFit Financing" means the financing provided by the Capital Provider to fund certain
Building Resiliency Improvements on Qualified Real Property as part of the Property Fit
Program.
"PropertyFit Program" means the program provided for under the Acts for the financing and
construction of Building Resiliency Improvements on Qualifying Real Property.
"Qualifying Real Property" and "Qualifying Real Properties" mean the real property that
qualifies to receive PropertyFit Fainancing for Building Resiliency Improvements under the
Property Fit Program.
TERMS
The Parties agree as follows:
1. All references to Portland Development Commission and PDC are changed to
Prosper Portland.
2. Section 1, as amended in the First Amendment, is replaced in its entirety as follows:
The PropertyFit Prngram is a new initiative which County and Prosper Portland are
implementing on a cooperative basis. The PropertyFit Program is a mechanism
designed to support the financing of disaster and climate resiliency investments in
Qualifying Real Property. The PropertyFit Program serves a public purpose by
reducing carbon emissions, decreasing water use, and decreasing seismic life safety
risks through energy conservation, renewable power, and seismic rehabilitation. The
Property Fit Program leverages the security of County's lien enforcement authority to
increase access to capital for Building Resiliency Improvement projects. Under the
PropertyFit program, Building Resiliency Improvements are funded by a Capital
Provider and secured by a Notice of Benefit Assessment Lien recorded against the
Qualifying Real Property. The PropertyFit Program is designed to increase building
resiliency across Qualifying Real Properties in Multnomah County.
3. Section 6.d.ii, as amended in the First Amendment, is amended as follows:
County delegates and authorizes Prosper Portland, on its behalf, to perform the
following functions of a Program Administrator, as specifically set forth in
ORS 223.680 and 223.685, including but not limited to executing all Closing
Documents and such other documents required to be executed by County under the
PropertyFit Program:
* * *
(g) Subject to the limitations included in Section 7, this delegation does not preclude
County from exercising the authority granted to it by ORS 223.680 and 223.685
independently from Prosper Portland.
* * *
4. Section 8, as amended in the First Amendment, is replaced in its entirety as follows:
8. Enforcement and Collection of Delinquent PropertyFit Financing.
a. Prosper Portland and County agree to employ the lien collection
methods authorized in ORS 223.680(7)(c) and 223.685(6)(c).
b. Once the Closing Documents have been executed by the Property
Owner and Prosper Portland, Prosper Portland will execute and
record a Notice of Benefit Assessment Lien in County deed
records.
c. The Benefit Assessment Lien will be imposed at the time the
PropertyFit Financing is closed. The initial Notice of Benefit
Assessment Lien will be imposed based upon the estimated
amounfofthe PropertyFit Financing. At the Capital Provider's
discretion and instruction, the Notice of Benefit Assessment Lien
may be modified at the completion of construction to reflect the
final amount of the PropertyFit Financing. County delegates and
authorizes Prosper Portland, on its behalf, to:
i. Execute and record any Notice of Benefit Assessment Lien
or modification;
ii. Assign the payment stream secured by the Benefit
Assessment Lien to the Capital Provider; and
iii. Execute and record documents evidencing satisfaction of
the Notice of Benefit Assessment Lien when the
PropertyFit Financing is paid in full.
d. If a Property Owner becomes delinquent on the Property Fit
Financing and Benefit Assessment Lien, the Capital Provider may
request that Prosper Portland enforce the delinquent lien pursuant
to ORS 223 .505 to 223 .650.
e. It is the intention of the Parties that the purchaser of the Qualifying
Real Property will be responsible for all fees, penalties and costs of
collection and foreclosure incurred by Prosper Portland and
County.
f. Upon receipt of a complete enforcement request (including
payment of any applicable foreclosure initiation fees) from a
Capital Provider, Prosper Portland shall provide a written list of
delinquent liens to the Deputy Director of the Multnomah County
Division of Assessment, Taxation, and Recording ("DART"), the
Multnomah County Chief Financial Officer ("CFO"), and the
Director of the Office of Sustainability ("Sustainability").
1. The list of delinquent liens shall include the name of the
Property Owner, the delinquent amount, the description of
the Qualifying Real Property, the Notice of Benefit
Assessment Lien recording number, and any other facts
necessary to be given.
f. Upon receipt of the list of delinquent liens, DART shall confirm
the liens are entered in the Multnomah County lien docket and
shall provide written confirmation of same to Prosper Portland
along with an accounting of the costs incurred to confirm the list,
based on DART's fee schedule. Prosper Portland shall include
those fees in the costs of sale it recovers as part of the foreclosure
proceedings and shall remit those fees to DART upon collection.
g. Upon receipt of the confirmation from DART, Prosper Portland,
on behalf of County and the Capital Provider, shall proceed to
collect the delinquent lien(s) as provided in ORS 223.505 to
223.650, and all other applicable statutes. Prosper Portland shall
not foreclose or collect a delinquent lien by suit in equity under
ORS 223.605 to 223.650 without prior written consent from the
CFO and Sustainability.
h. Prosper Portland shall provide copies of all notices required in
ORS 223.505 to 223.650 to DART, the CFO, and Sustainability.
i.
If the Qualifying Real Property is sold for cash at the foreclosure
sale, County shall remit the proceeds to Prosper Portland within 5
days of receipt. Prosper Portland shall disburse the proceeds in
accordance with ORS 223.525 (2019).
j. Pursuant to ORS 223.545, if no bid is received for the sale of the
Qualifying Real Property, and upon written direction from the
Capital Provider and Prosper Portland, County, on behalf of the
Capital Provider, may purchase the Qualifying Real Property by
credit bidding the amount of the delinquent lien, interest, fees and
the cost of advertising and sale.
1. If County, on behalf of the Capital Provider, purchases the
Qualifying Real Property under this method, the certificate
of sale will be issued to County, by and through Prosper
Portland. Prosper Portland, on behalf of County, shall
immediately assign the certificate of sale to the Capital
Provider until the Qualifying Real Property is redeemed, or
the redemption period expires, whichever occurs first.
Prosper Portland will cause the assignment to the Capital
Provider to be recorded in the lien records.
11. If the Certificate of Sale is assigned to the Capital Provider,
the Capital Provider, at its own expense, will be responsible
for protecting, preserving and maintaining the Qualified
Real Property during the redemption period.
iii. It is the intention of the Parties that, after a foreclosure sale,
neither the County or Prosper Portland will take possession
of or be responsible for protecting, preserving and
maintaining the Qualified Real Property.
k. Prosper Portland shall carry out all redemption procedures as
required by law. At Prosper Portland's instruction and direction,
County will refund the purchase price to the foreclosure purchaser,
except as provided below:
1. If the Qualifying Real Property is subsequently redeemed,
and the foreclosure purchaser wants to be reimbursed for
costs incurred to protect, preserve and maintain the
Qualified Real Property during the redemption period, the
costs must have been preapproved, in writing, by Prosper
Portland at its sole discretion. In no event is the foreclosure
purchaser entitled to reimbursement of an amount greater
than the 10% penalty paid by the redemptioner.
ii.
If the Qualifying Real Property is subsequently redeemed,
at Prosper Portland's direction, County, shall disburse all or
part of the penalty paid by the person redeeming the
Qualifying Real Property to the foreclosure purchaser as
reimbursement for preapproved costs incurred in
maintaining the Qualifying Real Property during the
redemption period. Any penalty sums remaining after
payment of these expenses shall be retained by Prosper
Portland.
1. After the expiration of the redemption period, if the Qualifying
Real Property is not timely redeemed, County delegates and
authorizes Prosper Portland to execute and record a deed of
conveyance to the purchaser. If the Qualifying Real Property was
sold by credit bid to County and the Certificate of Sale was
subsequently assigned to the Capital Provider, Prosper Portland
shall execute and record a deed of conveyance to the Capital
Provider.
m. Within three (3) days after the sale of the Qualifying Real
Property, Prosper Portland shall update the delinquent list to
include the sale information and provide the updated list to DART,
CFO and Sustainability.
i. DART shall make any necessary entries into the lien docket
based upon the updated delinquent list.
5. The remainder of the IGA, as amended by the First Amendment, remains unchanged
and in full force and effect.
6. The undertaking provided for under this Second Amendment constitutes an
authorization by a public body under ORS 190.010 for a Party to perfonn one or more
inherent governmental responsibilities of or for the other Party. As a result, the
consent of the Board of County Commissioners is required for the County to sign the
Second Amendment, and for any material modification or amendment to the IGA, as
amended by the Second Amendment. The Second Amendment may only be amended
or supplemented by a writing that is signed by a duly authorized representative of
each Party, clearly recites the Parties' understanding and intent to amend the Second
Amendment, and clearly and with specificity describes the terms to be amended or
supplemented. The Second Amendment may be executed in multiple cou~terparts and
may be electronically signed. Any verified electronic signatures appearing on the
Contract are the same as handwritten signatures for the purposes of validity,
admissibility, and enforceability. Any reproduction of the Contract made by reliable
means is considered an original.
Page7of8
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Amendment as of the Effective Date.
PROSPER PORTLAND
By:
Date:
Kimberly Branam
Executive Director
MULTNOMAH COUNTY
By:
Title:
Date:
Approved as to form:
General Counsel
Approved as to form:
Assistant County Attorney