BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
PROCLAMATION NO. 2024-035
Proclaiming May 2024 as Mental Health Awareness Month in Multnomah County,
Oregon.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. Communities in Multnomah County have faced immense challenges in physical
and mental health for an extended period, including generations of systemic
racism, economic, social and climate disruptions, even as we continue living with
the remnants of a pandemic.
b. Recognizing May 2024 as Mental Health Awareness Month brings attention to
those challenges and, this year's theme of “Access for All” highlights the difficulty of
finding an open path for all who need it, especially with workforce shortages of the
past several years .
c. Every Multnomah County resident deserves to have their basic needs met,
including a safe place to rest, food, shelter, and health care. Every Multnomah
County resident deserves access to services and to live with safety, stability and
the security of knowing how they will get the care they need.
d. There is a need to continue to speak openly about mental health, what it looks like,
who struggles with it, in order to reduce the stigma attached to mental health
challenges and mental illness.
e. Multnomah County Health Department and Behavioral Health Division commit to
continue to support services and find spaces to share resources that help a broad
swath of communities find safety, stability and access.
f. Language matters. How we talk about mental health can reinforce prejudice or
promote acceptance. Words matter; we encourage open and compassionate
language around mental health issues to empower ourselves and encourage
others to find the help they need.
g. We must look inward to see outward. Self care is important for mental health;  it
can stimulate our resilience and help us find ways to manage stress in a healthy,
positive way. Just as we watch for signs within ourselves, be aware of symptoms
that someone else is struggling with mental health. Caring acknowledgement can
open doors to wellness and recovery.
h. Many have stepped in for the long haul toward mental health wellness. We call
attention to the tremendous work of peers, consumers, providers, community
members and county staff to ensure that effective, trauma-informed, and culturally
responsive mental health services are available for all of our community members.
i. As our County continues to find innovative ways to help community members
navigate mental health challenges, we contribute to healthier communities,
improved relationships, increased stability, and opportunities to use lived
experience to promote recovery for others.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
The month of May 2024 is proclaimed to be Mental Health Awareness Month in Multnomah
County, Oregon, and reaffirms the County’s commitment to support ongoing efforts to
achieve behavioral health wellness across our community spectrum.
ADOPTED this 16th day of May, 2024
SUBMITTED BY: Rachael Banks, Health Department Director
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By
Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney