Page 1 - Approving referral of a measure to the voters of Multnomah County the question of
levying a personal income tax to higher earners to fund tuition-free Preschool for All
Program.
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
RESOLUTION NO. 2020-067
Approving referral of a measure to the voters of Multnomah County the question of levying a
personal income tax to higher earners to fund tuition-free Preschool for All Program.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. The Board determines that it is a matter of County concern and a public purpose to,
within the next 10 years, ensure universal, tuition free, voluntary, high quality preschool
education for every three-and-four-year-old with a parent or guardian residing within
Multnomah County.
b. High quality preschool programs improve health, education, economic, and social
outcomes, saving money on costly interventions later in life.
c. Public investment in preschool may be our single best investment to reduce racial,
ethnic, and income based education and opportunity gaps. Children attending a high-
quality preschool have higher high school graduation rates and earnings in adulthood,
and experience reduced rates of unemployment, substance abuse, and involvement in
the criminal justice system.
d. Economists estimate that the rate of return for funding high quality preschool programs
ranges from $7 to $10 for every dollar invested.
e. There are approximately 19,000 three and four year-olds in Multnomah County.
f. Over 66 percent of three and four year-olds in Multnomah County of Hispanic or Latino,
African American or Black, Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander, American Native or
Alaskan Native, Asian or Slavic race, ethnicity, or ancestry are living below 200 percent
of the Federal Poverty Level.
g. According to a recent analysis, Oregon is the sixth least affordable state in the nation for
the cost of family child care.
h. More than 60 percent of households in Multnomah County fall under the Self-Sufficiency
Standard, meaning that they are unable to meet basic living needs without assistance.
i. Federal and State preschool programs only meet 15 percent of the need for preschool
access in Multnomah County.
j. The median preschool teacher wage in Oregon in 2018 was $13.70 per hour, and the
median kindergarten teacher wage was $38.80 per hour.

Page 2 - Resolution approving referral of a measure to the voters of Multnomah County the
question of levying a Personal Income Tax to fund the Preschool for All Program.
k. Public investment in preschool is a powerful economic development strategy, creating
jobs and raising the skill level of the labor force, particularly for historically
disadvantaged groups.

l. The lack of affordable preschool is a serious burden on low-income and middle-income
communities. The high cost of care prevents parents (disproportionately mothers) from
being able to work as many hours as they need to, or from working at all. As a result,
poverty rates for young children are higher than for any other age group in Oregon.

m. Multnomah County engaged with parents, educators, community advocates, small
business leaders, and other community stakeholders over a multi-year process to
develop the Preschool for All plan, which establishes a roadmap for expanding high-
quality preschool to all three and four year-olds in Multnomah County, attached hereto
as Exhibit D.

n. The Universal Preschool NOW coalition of more than 30 endorsing organizations
gathered more than 24,000 qualified signatures from county voters to certify a
citizens initiative for November's ballot to consider countywide universal preschool
for all 3- and 4-year-olds, with living wages for preschool teachers and assistants,
funded through a tax on the top 5% of income earners.

o. Universal Preschool NOW's historic, successful signature collection effort during a
pandemic demonstrates strong public support for a universal preschool program. UP
NOW organizers have collaborated with Preschool For All and are in discussion
about a memorandum of understanding/agreement for continued involvement in any
universal preschool program approved by voters in November.

p. This Resolution implements the Board’s intent to refer a measure to the voters to enact
an income tax on Oregon taxable income on Multnomah County residents and on
nonresidents that derive income from sources within the county at certain thresholds, to
fund the operation and administration of a tuition-free preschool program.

q. This Resolution recognizes the significant contributions to this effort of Sarah Cohen-
Doherty, who died unexpectedly on July 21. Sarah’s intelligence and dedication to
expanding early learning opportunities to those most in need is reflected in the
community involvement and outreach conducted and the Preschool for All Task Force
report. Her diverse experience as a teacher, education program coordinator,
communications project manager brought a wealth of knowledge to the Preschool for All
effort.

The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves:

1. The measure described in the proposed Ordinance (Exhibit A) is referred to the electors
of Multnomah County for the November 3, 2020, election.

2. The Ordinance (Exhibit A), Ballot Title (Exhibit B), and the Explanatory Statement
(Exhibit C) are adopted and made part of this Resolution. The Ordinance, Ballot Title
and Explanatory Statement will be printed substantially in the form set forth.

Page 3 - Approving referral of a measure to the voters of Multnomah County the question of
levying a Personal Income Tax to fund the Preschool for All Program.
3. The Board authorizes the County Attorney to deliver to the Elections Director the final
ballot title and explanatory statement on form SEL 801 not later than September 3, 2020
(sixty-one (61) days prior to the election date), and to take such further action as is
necessary to carry out the intent and purposes herein in compliance with the applicable
provisions of law.
ADOPTED this 6th day of August, 2020
SUBMITTED BY: Jessica Vega Pederson, Multnomah County Commissioner, District 3
By: Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney
 BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
 FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Deborah Kafoury, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
•1!)'\A_,I��

BEFORE THE VOTERS OF MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
NOVEMBER 3, 2020
Ordinance No. 1288
Personal Income Tax on Higher Earners to Fund Tuition-Free Preschool for All
Program.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
1. Oregon Constitution Article VI, section 10 grants county voters authority to adopt
a county charter.
2. Multnomah County Charter Section 2.10 grants the county legislative authority
“over matters of county concern to the fullest extent permitted by the
constitutions and laws of the United States and the State of Oregon.” Multnomah
County has authority to enact laws taxing incomes to pay for county services
required for the health, safety, and welfare of the people of the county.
3. An income tax on Oregon taxable income on Multnomah County residents and
on nonresidents that derive income from sources within the county at certain
thresholds, is required to fund the operation and administration of a Tuition-Free
Preschool Program.
Multnomah County Voters Ordain as follows:
Personal Income Tax on Higher Earners to Fund Tuition-Free Preschool for All
Program.
SECTION 1.   TITLE
This chapter is known and cited as the Multnomah County Preschool for All Program
Tax.
SECTION 2.   DEFINITIONS
For the purpose of this ordinance, the following definitions apply unless the context
requires a different meaning.
BOARD. The Multnomah County Board of County Commissioners.
COMMITTEE. The Multnomah County Preschool for All Program Advisory Committee.
DEPARTMENT. The Multnomah County Department of County Human Services.
DEPARTMENT.
​
The Multnomah County Department of County Human Services.

FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATOR.
​

​
The Multnomah County Finance Chief Financial Officer

or designee

NONRESIDENT.
​

​
An individual who is not a resident within the Multnomah County

jurisdictional boundary.

PRESCHOOL FOR ALL PROGRAM or
​

​
PROGRAM.
​
 The Multnomah County Preschool

for All Program providing tuition-free preschool for children that meets the criteria in this

Ordinance.

RESIDENT.
​

​
 A taxpayer domiciled within Multnomah County for any portion of the

taxable year. ORS 316.027 and OAR 150-316-0025 are hereby adopted and shall

control when residency questions arise.

TAXABLE INCOME.
​

​
Taxable income under Oregon law.

SECTION 3.

INCOME TAX

A.
A tax of 1.5% is imposed on Oregon taxable income over $200,000 for joint filers

and $125,000 for single filers on every resident of Multnomah County subject to tax

under ORS chapter 316, and upon the taxable income derived from sources within

Multnomah County over $200,000 if filing jointly and $125,000 if filing singly of every

nonresident that is subject to tax under ORS chapter 316. On January 1, 2026, the tax

imposed will be increased by 0.8%.

B.
An additional tax of 1.5% is imposed on Oregon taxable income over $400,000 if

filing jointly and $250,000 if filing singly on every resident of the district subject to tax

under ORS chapter 316, and upon the taxable income derived from sources within

Multnomah County over $400,000 if filing jointly and $250,000 if filing singly of every

nonresident that is subject to tax under ORS chapter 316.

C.
As allowed by the Multnomah County Home Rule Charter, the Board may adjust

the income tax rate to fully fund the Program.
​
A technical team will be convened by the

Chair’s Office and will report to the Board before January 1, 2026, with a

recommendation regarding the increase in subsection (A) of this section and the future

revenue requirements to ensure the program is fully funded.

D.
 The net revenues (“Tax Receipts”) will be paid to the County and tracked in a

separate fund, for distribution by the Board for Program services, such as:

a.
Administration by the Department of County Human Services. The

Department will oversee Program operations, ensure quality, provide

operational support and oversight, and adopt administrative rules to

implement the Program.

b.
Programming for all children aged three or four years old by September

1st of the enrolling year with a parent or legal guardian residing in

Multnomah County are eligible to enroll in the Program. Equitable access

will be provided to people of color and other historically marginalized

communities.

c.
Providing up to six hours per day of high-quality, tuition-free,

developmentally appropriate, early learning experiences reflecting best

practices in a mixed-delivery model.

d.
Offering Program options will include:

i.
Half-day, full-day, year-round, and school-year schedules.

ii.
Culturally relevant, multi-generational learning programs as part of

the mixed delivery system.

iii.
Up to four additional hours of before or aftercare per day for

families with incomes under the Self-Sufficiency Standard for

Multnomah County.

e.
Requiring that Program teachers be paid on par with kindergarten

teachers, and assistants will be paid a minimum of $19.91 in 2022, with

cost of living adjustments (COLA) based on the County’s Local 88

union-negotiated COLA rate or to bring wage to 135% of Portland’s

minimum wage, whichever is greater.

f.
Establishing a compensation matrix that adjusts wages based on Program

teacher or assistant credentialing, education, certification, licensure, ORO

Steps, special skills (such as language), and experience, and by 2035

reflects a Program assistant teacher minimum wage not less than 75% of

Program teacher minimum wage.

g.
Establishing credentialing requirements for providers, including licensure

and certification that builds over time, allowing for workforce development

strategies and supports to be in place before credentialing requirements

rise.

h.
Multnomah County shall remain neutral with respect to representation and

collective bargaining on matters concerning labor relations for any family

childcare provider participating or applying to participate in the Program,

as authorized by ORS 329A.430.

E.
This tax will be effective beginning January 1, 2021.

SECTION 4.
PERFORMANCE AUDITS.

Independent performance audits will be conducted on the use of funds generated by

this tax.

SECTION 5.

PRESCHOOL FOR ALL PROGRAM ADVISORY COMMITTEE.

A.
COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED.
​
 A Preschool for All Program Advisory Committee

is created to review Program expenditures, provide Program oversight, review data,

advise evaluation efforts, and make policy recommendations to the Department.

B.
MEMBERSHIP.
​
 The Chair, with approval of the Board, will appoint a minimum of

12, and a maximum of 15 Committee members that represent the County’s diverse

communities and geographies.

C.
TERM
​
. Each Committee member is appointed for a two-year term. An

appointment may be rescinded by Board vote. No member can serve more than two

consecutive terms within any five year period.

SECTION 6.

PAYMENT OF TAX

Payment of this tax is due on the due date of the Oregon Personal Income Tax Return,

generally April 15th or the closest following business day.

SECTION 7.

FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATOR DUTIES

A.
Receipt.
​
The Financial Administrator will receive the tax imposed by this

ordinance from the taxpayers, keep accurate records, and report all monies received.

B.
Collection.
​
 The Financial Administrator will collect and pursue payment of all

taxes owing to the county.

C.
Rulemaking.
​
 The Financial Administrator will adopt administrative rules to

implement this tax. Rules adopted will generally be consistent with the rules of the

Oregon Department of Revenue regarding personal income tax.

D.
Contracting.
​
 The Financial Administrator may contract with public or private

agencies, as necessary, to implement this ordinance.

SECTION 8.

OTHER PROVISIONS

A.
Savings Clause.
​
If any part of this ordinance, or any tax against any individual or

group is found unconstitutional, illegal, or invalid, such unconstitutionality, illegality or

invalidity will affect only that part of this ordinance or tax and will not affect or impair any

other provisions of this tax or ordinance.

B.
This ordinance takes effect January 1, 2021, upon enactment by Multnomah

County voters at the election called for November 3, 2020.

CAPTION (10/10)

Establishes tuition-free preschool program, higher earners income tax funding.

QUESTION (20/20)

Should County establish tuition-free “Preschool for All Program” with new 1.5 to

3.8 percent tax on income above thresholds?

SUMMARY (175/175)

Establishes “Preschool for All Program” providing up to six hours per day of

tuition-free, developmentally appropriate early learning, reflecting best practices.

Mixed delivery model; half-day, full-day, year-round, school-year schedule

options. All three, four year olds with parent, legal guardian residing in County

eligible. Equitable access provided to people of color, historically marginalized

communities.  Before, aftercare for qualifying incomes.  Board to establish

provider credentialing requirements, compensation matrix including teacher pay

on par with kindergarten teachers, assistants paid $19.91 per hour in 2022 with

adjustments.  County neutral on representation, collective bargaining on provider

labor relations.

New tax on County residents and taxable income derived within County funds

Program:  1.5 percent tax on taxable income over $125,000 (single) and $200,000

(joint), increasing to 2.3 percent tax January 1, 2026; additional 1.5 percent tax on

taxable income over $250,000 (single) and $400,000 (joint) .

Administration by Department of County Human Services (Program), Chief

Financial Officer (Tax).  Establishes Board appointed advisory committee for

oversight, policy recommendations. Independent performance audits. Other

provisions.

EXPLANATORY STATEMENT (485/500)

This measure would establish an income tax to fund a new 'Preschool for All

Program,' providing voluntary, tuition-free, high-quality preschool for all children

who are 3 or 4 years old on September 1 of the enrolling year and have parents or

legal guardians who reside in Multnomah County, including options for full-year

and, for qualifying incomes, before or aftercare. Equitable access will be provided

to people of color and other historically marginalized communities.

The “Preschool for All Program” model was developed by a Multnomah

County-led task force, to address the lack of access to preschool and disparities,

by: increasing access to tuition-free, developmentally appropriate, inclusive,

culturally relevant early learning experiences;
​
providing compensation for early

learning professionals that is consistent with that of kindergarten teachers
​
; and

growing the number of available high quality preschool slots countywide.

Under the “Preschool for All Program” funds would be distributed to:

●
Provide high-quality, tuition-free, developmentally appropriate, early

learning experiences for children;

●
Offer scheduling options including half-day, full-day, year-round, and

school-year schedules

●
Offer up to 6 hours per day tuition-free for all participants; and up to

4 additional hours per day of before, aftercare tuition-free for

families under the Self Sufficiency Standard for Multnomah County;

●
Offer culturally relevant, multi-generational learning experiences;

●
Compensate teachers on par with kindergarten teachers. Preschool

assistant wage minimum $19.91 per hour in 2022, with adjustments

on cost of living or commensurate with 135% of Portland minimum

wage, whichever is greater;

●
Establish compensation matrix and credentialing requirements for

providers, including licensure and certification, allowing for

workforce development strategies and supports to be in place before

credentialing requirements rise.

The County would remain neutral with respect to representation and collective

bargaining on matters concerning labor relations for any family childcare provider

participating or applying to participate in the Program.

Program funded by a new tax on taxable income of County residents and on

taxable income derived from sources within Multnomah County: 1.5 percent on

taxable income over $200,000 (joint) and $125,000 (single), increasing to 2.3

percent tax on January 1, 2026; additional 1.5 percent on taxable income over

$400,000 (joint) and $250,000 (single). A household with taxable income below

$200,000 (single filer below $125,000) would not pay this tax.
​
Tax becomes

effective January 1, 2021.

Program is subject to independent performance audits. Program administered by

the Department of County Human Services. Requires recommendation from a

technical team on whether the 2026 tax increase is necessary to fully fund the

Program. Creates advisory committee appointed by Board and composed of

community members that represent the County’s diverse communities and

geographies.  Advisory committee to review Program expenditures, provide

Program oversight, review data, advise evaluation efforts, and make policy

recommendations.

County Chief Financial Officer would oversee collection, enforcement of tax;

adoption of implementing administrative rules; contracting with other agencies as

needed.

Preschool for All Plan

July 2020

Table of Contents

INTRODUCTION
4

By ​
Commissioner Jessica Vega Pederson

Overview
6

Accessible & Equitable

Scalable & Supportive

Smart & Accountable

Responsibly & Sustainably Funded

A Vision Eight Years in the Making
9

Inclusive

Thoughtful

Community-based

Comprehensive

The Preschool for All Plan
11

Ensuring Access To High-quality Preschool For All

Prioritizing Children With The Least Access To Preschool Today

Supporting Providers

Investing In Infrastructure

Providing Responsible Leadership

Funding Mechanism & Revenue
17

From Vision to Reality
19

Setting A Realistic Pace

Using Change To Create Opportunity

A Commitment to Quality
22

Program Quality Standards & Competencies

Program Evaluation

Workforce Development
26

Existing Preschool Providers

New Preschool Providers

Union Neutrality

Appendix A:

29

Task Force Members

Parent Accountability Council Members

Task Force & Work Group Facilitators

Work Group Members

Appendix B:

Pre-referral Committee Members

Technical Advisory Committee Members

Appendix C:
35

Path to Universality

Appendix D:
36

Supporting Providers & Teachers

Appendix E:

Projected 5-Year Budget

INTRODUCTION

COMMISSIONER JESSICA VEGA PEDERSON

Who would have predicted two years ago that the year

2020 would not only unleash a global pandemic, but also

dramatically shift the conversation about racial justice

across the U.S.?

I didn’t. But I did know two years ago that a plan for

Preschool for All​
 (PFA), in its earliest stages, would indeed

address systemic racism, fair wages and workforce

support for teachers and staff, and focus on equitable

outcomes for our whole community.

This process started with a commitment to do the things

we think cannot be done. Go beyond what has been

done in the past. Strive toward our vision: ​
Every child has access to a preschool that

is right for them, and every family can afford it.

Preschool is a powerful force for good. It has real, lasting positive impacts for children

and families. Well-funded preschool programs can also properly pay the hardworking

professionals teaching our children. Reliable care provides support to families that

decreases workplace absenteeism and turnover. All together, these opportunities

promote a healthier and more just society.

The thing I am most proud of about PFA is that it is a plan developed ​
with​
 — not just

for​
 — the communities most impacted by the lack of high-quality and affordable

preschool options.

With over 95 individuals representing over 50 organizations, experts in policy,

education and equity worked together since 2018 to design a thoughtful, sustainable

and high-quality tuition-free preschool program for Multnomah County’s children.

The foundation of Preschool for All was built on the preschool vision of ​
Early Learning

Multnomah’s Parent Accountability Council​
—a group dedicated to elevating the

voices of parents from African American, African immigrant, Asian, Latino, Native

American and Slavic communities.

As a result, the pages ahead lay out a plan for high-quality and tuition-free preschool

that prioritizes our community’s children who currently have the least access, children

who speak languages other than English, children experiencing poverty, and provides

special support for children with developmental delays and disabilities, while building

towards a fully universal system.

This framework shows how PFA is designed to grow at a sustainable pace to become

universal while avoiding the pitfalls that can hurt childcare services or don’t equitably

serve our children in a rush to overhaul the system. It starts with addressing the

systemic inequities in our early learning system by prioritizing who is served first. It

offers before and after care options to support working families. And it includes a

policy of no suspensions or expulsions, recognizing how these disproportionately

impact children of color.

This plan prioritizes support for providers and teachers. It offers a living wage so

preschool teachers would earn the same as Kindergarten teachers and invests in

comprehensive workforce development. The plan carries a strong commitment to

supporting existing community care providers, most of whom are women — and

disproportionately, women of color.

Over the past two years, our vision for preschool has developed into a

transformational plan that will create the best universal preschool system this country

has ever seen--a plan created by the community for the community.

This work would not have been possible without the efforts of a large and incredible

team. From each and every person who contributed to the Preschool for All Task

Force report, to the dozens of people who served on our Pre-referral and Technical

Advisory committees over the past year, to the teams within Multnomah County who

worked on the administrative and implementation details, to our fantastic partners

who ensured we are working with community every step of the way. I am particularly

grateful for those folks who have been meeting and working almost every day to

make Preschool for All a reality: Mark Holloway, Ricardo Lujan Valerio and the team at

Latino Network, Brooke Chilton-Timmons, Megan Irwin, Chris Fick, Kim Melton, Amy

Ruiz and the team at Strategies 360​
.

Together, we are putting our values into action and improving the lives of children,

families, and our entire community.

In solidarity,

Overview

The early years of every child’s life are crucial for

social, emotional, and cognitive development.

Joyful, high-quality preschool and early learning

programs are one of the most effective ways to

positively impact brain development, school

readiness, and overall family wellbeing.

Unfortunately, families in Multnomah County face

great challenges accessing early learning programs

for their children. This is especially true for children

experiencing poverty, children of color, children who

speak diverse languages, and children with

developmental delays and disabilities.

Multnomah County is a difficult place to raise young

children. The County has one of the highest housing

costs in Oregon: 40% of households spend more

than 30% of their income on housing. Further, more

than 60% of Multnomah County households with

children under the age of 5 fall below the

Self-Sufficiency Standard, meaning they are unable

to meet their basic needs without assistance. Oregon consistently ranks as one the

most expensive states in the nation for preschool, yet public funds currently provide

preschool only for those families in deepest poverty, reaching under 20% of our

community’s 3- and 4-year-olds. This combination of economic pressures and limited

assistance places access to quality preschool out of reach for many families. Far too

many children in our community are denied the crucial and well-known benefits

preschool provides.

For the past 20 years, poverty has increased rapidly in Multnomah County, growing at

a rate far higher than the county’s overall rate of population growth. Children in

communities of color are disproportionately impacted by poverty:  41% of children

under the age of six in Multnomah County are children of color, while 65% of children

living in poverty are children of color. The COVID-19 pandemic has exacerbated the

disparities in resources and opportunity for many families in Multnomah

County—especially families of color—creating an even more unstable and uncertain

future for our youngest children.

Now more than ever we need to invest in stabilizing families and ensuring the

wellbeing of young children. Preschool allows families to go to work, with confidence

that their children are in safe and enriching environments. High-quality preschool not

only improves health, educational, economic, and social outcomes for individual

children and their families, but it also provides a high rate of return on the public’s

investment: for every dollar spent on high-quality preschool, the community sees a

return of between $7 and $10.
 Investments in early childhood education programs

1
 James Heckman, Schools, Skills, Synapses (2008).

reach far beyond individuals and families, saving money on costly interventions later

in life and opening pathways to economic prosperity for generations to come.

That is why over one hundred public, private, and social sector leaders, community

members, and preschool practitioners worked together to build a high-quality

preschool program for all 3- and 4-year-olds in Multnomah County. This coalition of

leaders and stakeholders envision a program that is:

ACCESSIBLE & EQUITABLE

●
All 3- and 4-year-olds​
 in Multnomah County

are eligible, and the program is countywide

from the start.

●
The program is ​
tuition-free to all families.

●
Before- and after-care options​
 (for a total of

up to 10 hours in a single day) are free for

families below the Multnomah County Self

Sufficiency Standard.

●
The program ​
centers the needs of children

who have the least access to preschool

today​
.

●
Provides ​
appropriate support​
 for children

with developmental delays and disabilities

●
The program offers a mixed delivery program

model, with a ​
range of options to meet

families’ needs​
, including:

o
full-day and part-day programming,

o
year-round options, and

o
home-based, center-based, and public

school based settings.

●
The program offers multi-generational and ​
culturally specific and culturally

responsive​
 program options.

●
The program promotes inclusive learning environments for all children by

expressly prohibiting suspensions and expulsions​
.

●
The program offers a ​
living wage for participating providers​
, including

preschool teachers and assistants.

SCALABLE & SUPPORTIVE

●
Preschool for All will expand to full capacity at a ​
sustainable pace​
 that allows

small providers and providers of color to participate.

●
To ensure that high-quality programming is ​
seamlessly aligned with

kindergarten expectations​
, all participating programs will follow the Oregon

Early Learning and Kindergarten Guidelines.

●
The program invests in ​
workforce development ​
by collaborating with existing

providers and by facilitating ongoing professional development and

equity-focused pathways to higher education for providers.

SMART & ACCOUNTABLE

●
The program​
 invests in infrastructure​
 by using funds to support providers in

meeting regulatory requirements (e.g., licensing, compliance with fire code)

and upgrading facilities.

●
The program ensures ​
community oversight and accountability​
 by

maintaining an advisory board of parents, providers, and community leaders,

including representatives from culturally specific organizations. The PFA

Advisory Committee will provide program oversight, review data, advise

evaluation efforts, and recommend shifts in policy and practices.

RESPONSIBLY & SUSTAINABLY FUNDED

●
The program is funded by a marginal income tax on high income earners, with

a tiered, progressive approach to income thresholds. In 2020, these thresholds

represent approximately the top eight percent of filers in Multnomah County.

●
The tax is structured to generate an estimated $133 million in 2021, increasing

to an estimated $202 million in 2026, based on analysis and revenue estimates

by Oregon’s Legislative Revenue Office and ECONorthwest. ​
This revenue is

sufficient to grow the Preschool for All program to capacity for all children

under the Self-Sufficiency Standard by fall 2026.

●
Beginning in January 2021, the proposed tax applies as follows:

o
First tier​
: ​
Joint filers or households​
 with ​
taxable​
 income over $200,000

will pay 1.5% on taxable income over $200,000. ​
Individuals​
 with ​
taxable

income over $125,000 will pay 1.5% on taxable income over $125,000.

o
Second tier​
: ​
Joint filers or households​
 with ​
taxable​
 household income

over $400,000 will pay an additional 1.5% on taxable income over

$400,000. ​
Individuals​
 with ​
taxable​
 income over $250,000 will pay an

additional 1.5% on taxable income over $250,000.

●
In order to grow the Preschool for All program to full capacity after initial

implementation, on January 1, 2026 the tax will be increased by 0.8% on

taxable income over $200,000 (joint filers or households) or $125,000

(single filers).​
 The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners has the

Charter authority today—and will continue to have the authority—to adjust

this rate as needed to ensure the program is fully funded.

o
By 2026, state or federal funding for early childhood education could

further offset additional local investment and reduce or even eliminate

the need for the rate increase.

o
A technical team will be convened by the Chair’s Office and will report

to the Board before January 1, 2026 with a recommendation on the rate

required to ensure the program is fully funded.

A Vision Eight Years in the

Making

Planning for the Preschool for All Initiative began in Fall 2018 when Commissioner

Jessica Vega Pederson convened the Preschool for All Task Force. The Task Force

received its charge from the parents and community-based organizations convened

by Social Venture Partners and Early Learning Multnomah to create a vision for

preschool in our county, with the priority populations named through the Ready for

Kindergarten Collaborative back in 2012. The Task Force’s work was broadly inclusive,

thoughtful, and community-based, with explicit commitments to children and

families of Multnomah County—including a commitment to confronting and

challenging racism in school practices, processes, and systems.

The Task Force developed comprehensive recommendations for Preschool for All

built around a shared vision: ​
Every child has access to a preschool that’s right for

them, and every family can afford it.

INCLUSIVE

The Task Force included parents and community leaders from early learning,

healthcare, housing, human services, school districts, higher education, culturally

specific organizations, local non-profits, and the business community. For a complete

list of Task Force members with affiliations, see Appendix A.

The Preschool for All policy development process was

overseen by the Parent Accountability Council (PAC)

that advises Early Learning Multnomah (ELM). The PAC

was initially created to guide the ELM’s work, ​
ensuring

that the voices of families of color were at the center

of decision-making​
. Parents from African American,

African immigrant, Asian, Latino, Native American, and

Slavic communities form the Council. In addition to the

monthly PAC meetings, PAC parents and partner

organizations convened quarterly culturally-specific

Parent Leadership Team meetings for broader parent

input. The PAC continues to provide policy advice and

guidance to the Preschool for All Initiative.

THOUGHTFUL

To ensure the Task Force’s vision for Preschool for All

was detailed and comprehensive, Commissioner Vega Pederson invited local

technical experts to participate in four Work Groups. Each work group focused on a

key area of planning.

Policy & Program Work Group

Design a high-quality preschool

program for children and

families from diverse

backgrounds.

Workforce Work Group

Develop an adequately sized

workforce that is skilled, valued,

and compensated fairly.

Infrastructure Work Group

Identify how to support and

expand settings that can

accommodate early learning

programs, with an eye toward

filling gaps in specific geographical parts of Multnomah County.

Finance, Strategy & Administration Work Group

Create the framework for a central administration, and provide guidance about

projected program costs and suggestions for program funding sources.

COMMUNITY-BASED

Altogether more than 95 individuals, representing

over 50 organizations, participated in the Task

Force and Work Groups. The Task Force also relied

on the expertise of the PAC to help shape and give

feedback on the recommendations. This structure

paved the way for an innovative set of

recommendations that build on research and

embody the wisdom and lived experience of

community members.

COMPREHENSIVE

In July 2019, the Preschool for All Task Force

completed its work and presented a

comprehensive set of recommendations​
 for

moving a universal preschool initiative forward in

Multnomah County.

The Preschool for All Plan

Building on the momentum of the Task Force’s recommendations, Preschool for All

entered its second phase of planning, which focused on financing the program and

building out an implementation plan. This phase of work was advised by two bodies:

the Pre-Referral Committee and the Technical Advisory Committee.

Preschool for All Pre-Referral Committee (PRC)

Members of the PRC were leaders in early childhood, public education, health care,

human services, nonprofit, culturally specific groups, and business. The group advised

on development of a ballot measure and funding mechanism for Preschool for All.

Preschool for All Technical Advisory Committee (TAC)

Members of the TAC had participated in one of the Task Force Work Groups and

included preschool providers, leaders of Early Learning Multnomah and Child Care

Resource and Referral, staff of culturally specific organizations and children's

advocacy organizations, and representatives from philanthropy. The group developed

a timeline for the program to grow to scale and a plan to implement Task Force

recommendations.

The resulting Preschool for All Plan ensures access for all families, develops and

supports a skilled workforce, invests in infrastructure, and takes a responsible

approach to leadership.

ENSURING ACCESS TO HIGH-QUALITY PRESCHOOL

FOR ALL

Preschool for All allows parents to choose the option that works for their family, so

they can go to work, build a career, pay their bills, and contribute to the economy

while also ensuring that their children don’t miss out on critical social and academic

skills.

All 3- and 4- year olds in Multnomah County are eligible for Preschool for All from

the start, and Preschool for All is tuition-free for all families.​
 The program:

●
Focuses on providing joyful, culturally responsive, developmentally

appropriate, inclusive preschool experiences for all children in Multnomah

County.

●
Utilizes a comprehensive set of learning standards that are aligned with

Oregon’s Early Learning and Kindergarten Guidelines, focused on developing

the whole child by addressing social-emotional skills, approaches to learning,

early literacy, vocabulary, early math skills, and physical/motor development, in

a playful and developmentally appropriate way.

●
Provides up to six hours per day of high-quality, tuition-free preschool.

●
Provides up to four additional hours of before/aftercare per day free for families

with incomes under the Self-Sufficiency Standard for Multnomah County.

Preschool for All makes a variety of settings and schedules available to families.

The program:

●
Includes home-based, center-based, Head Start, and public school-based

preschool providers.

●
Provides access to culturally specific, multi-generational learning programs as

part of the mixed delivery system.

●
Invites families to indicate setting preferences when applying and provides

equitable access to different program types.

●
Offers half-day, full-day, year-round, and school-year schedules.

Preschool for All prohibits participating providers from suspending or expelling

children. ​
The program:

●
Includes professional development for providers on anti-bias early education

practices.

●
Increases funding for early childhood mental health consultations and

supports  for providers and families.

●
Provides support to families to address concerns about a child’s placement

with a provider.

from “​
Standing Together Against Suspension & Expulsion in Early Childhood”​
 a joint statement published

by the National Association for the Education of Young Children with support from the American Academy

of Pediatrics, National Education Association, and many more (emphasis ours).

PRIORITIZING CHILDREN WITH THE LEAST ACCESS TO

PRESCHOOL TODAY

As Preschool for All builds toward a fully universal system with the capacity to meet

the needs of every 3- and 4- year old in Multnomah County, ​
the program specifically

prioritizes children in our community who have the least access to quality,

affordable preschool opportunities today.

Children that experience disparate access include:

●
Black, Brown, Indigenous, and all children of color;

●
Migrant and refugee children;

●
Children who speak languages other than English;

●
Children with developmental delays and disabilities;

●
Children of teen parents, or in military families;

●
Children living in foster care;

●
Children from families affected by homelessness, incarceration, substance

abuse, mental health issues, and domestic violence.

Culturally specific organizations (CSOs) will play a central role in the Preschool for All

system, including the application process. In the early years, families will apply to

Preschool for All through CSOs. CSOs will screen and prioritize families for PFA

enrollment, based on guidance from Preschool for All. ​
The process will be simple

and supportive for families, based in organizations trusted by the community.

PFA’s Technical Advisory Committee developed an initial framework for Outreach &

Prioritized Enrollment that will be further refined in partnership with CSOs:

1.
Culturally specific organizations (CSOs) will be funded to outreach to priority

populations and to guide families through the application process.

2.
Families will complete a universal application form, developed in partnership

with the CSOs.

3.
Using guidance from Preschool for All, CSOs will then prioritize families for PFA

enrollment based on their overall need.

4.
CSOs will enter those families into the PFA database.

5.
PFA administrative staff will then match families with a PFA provider based on

their application preferences (geographic location, language spoken by

provider, program length, etc).

The application process at culturally specific organizations will be open to any

family in Multnomah County, continuing the open door policy that CSOs currently

utilize in other programs.

Strong outreach efforts will help ensure that families from priority populations make

up a significant portion of the PFA applications. These outreach strategies include

partnering with culturally specific media to spread information about PFA, and

including culturally relevant information on the website, not just translated

information.

Basing the outreach and application process within culturally specific organizations

will result in a more culturally responsive experience for families and help ensure that

more families from the priority populations feel comfortable applying for Preschool

for All. As the number of Preschool for All slots grows, culturally specific organizations

will continue to play a central role in the application process and in prioritizing

families for enrollment.

Preschool for All will also create an ​
online application where families can apply

directly to Preschool for All​
 in the early years of implementation. The exact timeline

will be determined as more details about the application system are finalized, and

with the input of the culturally specific agencies involved in outreach and enrollment.

SUPPORTING PROVIDERS

Preschool for All provides a living wage for early education workers, who are severely

underpaid and often can’t afford to stay in the field, contributing to higher turnover

and lower quality preschool education. With fair compensation and professional

support, we can keep talented teachers in the field, leading to better outcomes for

children.

Preschool for All ensures a living wage for participating providers:

●
Lead preschool teachers are paid on par with kindergarten teachers.

●
Assistant preschool teachers are paid a minimum of $18 per hour in 2020 dollars,

with cost of living adjustments (COLA) based on the County’s union-negotiated

COLA rate OR to bring wage to 135% of Portland metro minimum wage,

whichever is greater. In 2022, when assistant teachers are paid under the

Preschool for All Plan, this wage will be $19.91.

●
Preschool for All’s plan also establishing a compensation matrix that adjusts

wages based on Program teacher or assistant teacher credentialing, education,

certification, licensure, ORO Steps, special skills (such as language), and

experience, and by 2035 reflects a Program assistant teacher minimum wage

not less than 75% of Program teacher minimum wage.

●
Preschool for All defines assistant preschool teachers broadly, as all non-lead

teaching staff working with children in the classroom in a center or school

model, or working with children in a home based model, including teaching

staff with titles like associate teacher, break support staff, or teachers aide.

Preschool for All supports provider credentialing and professional development:

●
Providers can achieve their credentialing through community-based training or

college courses.

●
Credentialing requirements for providers build over time, allowing for workforce

development strategies and supports to be in place before credentialing

requirements rise. At the start of Preschool for All, providers/lead teachers will be

required to be on Step 7 of the Oregon Registry or have a Child Development

Associate (CDA) Credential. At program maturity, providers/lead teachers will be

required to be on Step 9 of the Oregon Registry or have an associate degree or

bachelor’s degree.

Preschool for All develops and expands the workforce of preschool providers:

●
Partners with existing providers to meet Preschool for All requirements through

collaborative and individualized coaching.

●
Offers support to providers who would like to pursue higher education or

community-based training. Supports include scholarships for tuition and other

costs associated with higher education, such as substitute staff and childcare for

their own children.

●
Partners closely with local community colleges and universities to increase the

number of early childhood educators graduating from their institutions, with an

emphasis on making the system more accessible for students who speak

languages other than English.

●
Provides opportunities for providers to access personal and professional

development such as career coaching and professional networks.

●
Expands, replicates, or develops new programs that provide early educator

certification, training, and pathways to employment. Those programs may

include paid internship opportunities and Child Development Associate

Credential programs for parents, high school students, and English language

learners.

●
Invests in and supports a shared services model that will allow providers to

access centralized supports.

INVESTING IN INFRASTRUCTURE

Preschool for All supports providers in ensuring facilities meet the requirements for

preschool programs.

To grow the number of preschool slots across Multnomah County, Preschool for

All allocates funding to support providers who want to improve or expand their

facilities​
:

●
Makes infrastructure investments and development decisions using a racial

equity lens and prioritizes reducing geographic and racial disparities.

●
Prioritizes infrastructure investments in the growth, expansion, and stability of

existing providers, with a focus on providers of color.

●
Creates supports to help providers access infrastructure technical assistance and

navigate challenging regulatory and permitting systems.

●
Works with system partners to leverage other public funding sources for capital

improvements and new construction.

PROVIDING RESPONSIBLE LEADERSHIP

Preschool for All is administered by the Department of County Human Services. The

Department will oversee program operations and ensure program quality.

Preschool for All provides efficient program administration:

●
Structures the central administration as effectively and efficiently as possible to

be able to provide strong operational support and oversight of Preschool for All.

●
Avoids duplicating the work of existing entities and builds on current systems by

leveraging organizations that already support the early childhood ecosystem,

including partnerships with organizations that are trusted by the community.

Preschool for All provides oversight and is accountable to the public:

●
Creates a community advisory group. The advisory group will provide program

oversight, review data, advise evaluation efforts, and recommend shifts in policy

and practices. The advisory group will have 12-15 members and will be appointed

by the Multnomah County Board of County Commissioners, which serves as the

overall governance body of Preschool for All. Geographic and racial diversity of

the group will be important considerations as the Board develops the overall

membership. DCHS will staff the advisory group and members will be asked to

participate for a minimum of two years. The Preschool for All advisory group will

include:

○
A minimum of two parents, at least one parent will also be a member of

the Early Learning Multnomah Parent Accountability Council

○
A minimum of two preschool providers

○
A minimum of two representatives from culturally specific organizations

○
A representative from a union supporting child care workers

○
A school district representative

○
A representative from an early childhood system organization

○
The remaining seats may include additional representatives from the list

above and representatives from advocacy, workforce development, higher

education, health care and other organizations that work to support

children and families in Multnomah County.

●
Oversees financial management including budgeting analysis, needs

assessment, collection of funds, and braiding of funding streams.

●
Guides strategic planning to meet equity commitments and financial and

programmatic needs, including infrastructure and workforce development.

●
Provides oversight and public communication of data collection and evaluation

results.

●
Coordinates closely with system partners including the State, Head Start

providers, early childhood special education, and the Early Learning Hub.

●
Receives independent performance reviews and audits.

●
Completes a system evaluation to inform program and policy improvements and

report on program goals.

Preschool for All supports families in applying, enrolling, and navigating its

services:

●
Manages and oversees the application, eligibility, and enrollment process.

●
Identifies and addresses gaps in provider types and geographic needs as the

program grows.

●
Provides a clear and accessible way for families to raise concerns and have them

addressed quickly.

●
Funds family navigators to connect families with needed resources.

Funding Mechanism &

Revenue

Preschool for All has worked with multiple technical experts to develop and model

the proposed mechanism, estimated revenue, costs, reserves, and growth

assumptions. On the revenue side, this work included analysis by ECONorthwest and

July 2020 estimates by Oregon’s Legislative Revenue Office.

On the cost side, Preschool for All staff consulted with other jurisdictions

implementing large scale preschool systems, subject matter experts, and the

Technical Advisory Committee. Staff also utilized analysis by the Department of

County Human Services finance office, data and learnings from other Multnomah

County programs, and reviewed assumptions with Multnomah County’s economist.

Preschool for All also worked with the Pre-Referral Committee and tested various

revenue mechanisms with voters to determine viability, including an income tax on

high income earners, an employer-paid payroll tax with exemptions for workers

earning less than $125,000, and a property tax levy. Research done by other

jurisdictions concurrently confirmed a lack of support for a local sales tax.

Based on this work, Preschool for All is proposing a marginal income tax on high

income earners, with a tiered, progressive approach to income thresholds. In 2020,

these thresholds represent approximately the top eight percent of income tax filers in

Multnomah County.

Preschool for All’s plan starts with a lower rate to fund the program as it grows.

The tax is structured to generate an estimated $133 million in 2021, increasing to an

estimated $202 million in 2026, based on analysis and revenue estimates by Oregon’s

Legislative Revenue Office and ECONorthwest. This revenue is sufficient to grow the

Preschool for All program to a level that provides capacity for all children in priority

populations—adding 7,000 new slots—by fall 2026.

The Plan includes an automatic .8% rate increase in 2026 to fully fund the

program, ​
but also calls on the Chair’s Office to convene a technical team prior to 2026

to make a recommendation to the Board on the rate needed to ensure the program

is fully funded. By 2026, state or federal funding for early childhood education could

further offset additional local investment and reduce or even eliminate the need for

the rate increase.

●
Beginning in January 2021, the proposed tax applies as follows:

o
Lower tier:

▪
Joint filers or households with ​
taxable​
 income over $200,000 will

pay 1.5% on taxable income over $200,000 but under $400,000.

▪
Individuals with ​
taxable​
 income over $125,000 will pay 1.5% on

taxable income over $125,000 but under $250,000.

o
Upper tier:

▪
Joint filers or households with ​
taxable​
 household income over

$400,000 will pay an additional 1.5% on taxable income over

$400,000.

▪
Individuals with ​
taxable​
 income over $250,000 will pay an

additional 1.5% on taxable income over $250,000.

●
Beginning in January 2026, the proposed tax applies as follows if the Board

does not adjust, reduce or eliminate the .8% rate increase::

o
Lower tier:

▪
Joint filers or households with taxable income over $200,000 will

pay 2.3% on taxable income over $200,000 but under $400,000.

▪
Individuals with taxable income over $125,000 will pay 2.3% on

taxable income over $125,000 but under $250,000.

o
Upper tier:

▪
Joint filers or households with taxable household income over

$400,000 will pay an additional 1.5% on taxable income over

$400,000.

▪
Individuals with taxable income over $250,000 will pay an

additional 1.5% on taxable income over $250,000.

Overlap of PFA’s Mechanism and the County’s Business License Tax

Earlier this year, as Metro was referring a higher-income earner tax for homeless

services to the May ballot, business advocates identified an area of overlap between

business taxes and this income tax mechanism. With the same basic mechanism, PFA

also recognizes a need to mitigate or resolve any double-taxation issues that may

impact a small subset of business owners, and will address this during

implementation.

From Vision to Reality

In coming years, Preschool for All will implement a universal preschool program in

Multnomah County. Implementation is guided by considerations related to ​
setting a

realistic pace, avoiding unintended consequences, and adapting to changes

resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic.

SETTING A REALISTIC PACE

Today, Multnomah County has a limited number of available preschool slots and

providers who meet standards for high-quality preschool programs. This influences

the pace at which Preschool for All can be implemented. In the early years of the

program, Preschool for All will need to support current providers in meeting quality

standards and partner with them to expand their capacity .

Implementing too quickly can have unintended consequences.​
 For example,

accelerated implementation that can:

●
Reduce the availability of infant/toddler slots in a community that is already

considered an infant/toddler child-care desert.

●
Funnel investment primarily into large programs — such as school districts

and large centers — that are easier to scale than small centers and

home-based settings. This creates a two-tiered, inequitable system.

The pace of implementation for Preschool for All takes into account the need to

build capacity, while also managing the potential for unintended consequences.

Figure 1: Preschool for All Projected Enrollment, Years 1–6

The first phase of implementation—beginning immediately after collecting taxes—will

involve making investments to help providers to meet Preschool for All standards

through coaching, professional development, and business supports.

By 2026, this initial implementation phase will increase the number of preschool slots

as shown in Figure 1.

Figure 2: Preschool for All Projected Timeline to Full Capacity

Modeling shows that it will be possible to reach universal scale within 10 years with a

modest bump in the tax rate in 2026. Figure 2 shows the estimated growth of

preschool slots by all public funding sources through the 2030–31 school year.

USING CHANGE TO CREATE OPPORTUNITY

Implementation of Preschool for All will help stabilize the vulnerable child care and

preschool marketplace, which has been devastated by the COVID-19 pandemic. The

early years of implementation will involve growing the pool of qualified providers: this

presents an opportunity to prioritize, elevate, and support small providers, providers of

color, and culturally specific providers in the following ways.

●
Preschool for All will ensure that BIPOC providers have access to information

and resources—including PFA supports and funds—that will help them

stabilize and strengthen their businesses.

●
Preschool for All will prioritize BIPOC-owned, culturally specific, and

culturally-relevant preschools in selection and funding processes.

●
Preschool for All will invest in and support pathways for interested providers to

restart their businesses shut down during the pandemic, especially those

businesses that are culturally specific and/or BIPOC-owned.

●
Preschool for All will invest funding to provide pathways for previous child care

business owners who would like to shift their careers and teach in or lead other

preschools.

A Commitment to Quality

Preschool for All is focused on providing ​
joyful, culturally responsive,

developmentally appropriate, inclusive preschool experiences​
 for all children in

Multnomah County. Participating preschool programs will use a comprehensive set of

learning standards that are aligned with Oregon’s Early Learning and Kindergarten

Guidelines. These standards focus on developing the whole child by addressing

social-emotional skills, approaches to learning, early literacy, vocabulary, early math

skills, and physical/motor development, in a playful and developmentally appropriate

way.

In order to ensure quality and consistency across provider settings, the Preschool for

All Task Force approved a set of 10 quality standards and seven core staff

competencies adapted from the National Association for the Education of Young

Children’s (NAEYC) program quality and professional competency standards. Once

admitted to the program, providers will receive ongoing coaching to support

continuous improvement over time. Providers will also participate in a Preschool for

All professional development series and ongoing training aligned with the Preschool

for All core competencies.

PROGRAM QUALITY STANDARDS & COMPETENCIES

Relationships

Trusting relationships are the foundation of positive interactions between adults and

children and are critical for strengthening community and program development.

Positive relationships and partnerships with families are the center of program design

that creates a joyful preschool experience for children.

Parent & Family Partnerships

Preschool for All programs value each family’s unique expertise about their children

and honor the parent and family’s role as their child’s first teacher. Parents and

program staff partner to set goals for each child and to communicate about each

child’s growth, learning, and development at home and in the classroom. Families

and parents have opportunities to form networks and connections with one another,

and all cultures and linguistic backgrounds are welcome.

Community Relationships

The program actively works to engage community partners and work with them to

provide support for children and families. Community members are actively invited

into the classroom.

Teaching

Programs use developmentally appropriate and culturally and linguistically

responsive teaching practices. Programs recognize that children have diverse

learning styles, cultural backgrounds, interests, and needs and use varied instructional

practices to support learning. Classroom practices balance whole group, small group,

and individual learning opportunities and provide both child led and teacher led

activities.

Staff Competencies, Preparation & Support

Programs involve educators in educational opportunities that are intentional for staff

growth, reflection, child development, program assessment, curriculum, and positive

guidance. Teachers are provided with observation, supervision, coaching, and

mentoring. Program staff look like the community they work with and are trained in

multicultural, culturally responsive, and trauma informed practices. The seven staff

competencies are:

●
Child development and learning in context

●
Family and community partnerships

●
Child observation, documentation, and assessment

●
Developmentally, culturally, and linguistically appropriate teaching practices

●
Content knowledge in early childhood curriculum

●
Professionalism as an early childhood educator

●
Program management

Curriculum

Curriculum is comprehensive across all domains of learning and development.

Curriculum is tailored to the needs of the population served and is flexible/adaptable

to support individualized instruction. Curriculum treats children’s culture and

linguistic background as assets for teaching and learning diverse languages and

Black English. Curriculum has intentional structures designed to welcome families

and community into the classroom.

Screening & Assessment

Assessment evidence is gathered in realistic, developmentally appropriate settings

that children are comfortable in and that are consistent with children’s culture and

language. Multiple sources of information are gathered over time, including

observations and information gathered from parents and families. Assessments are

used to develop insight into each child’s learning and development, and they are

used to plan instruction accordingly.

Health

The program supports health, wellness, and safety through education, family

engagement, and connection to community resources.

Physical Environment

The classroom’s physical environment is warm, safe, and welcoming. A variety of

child-centered learning materials are accessible to children of different ages and

abilities and are available in children’s home languages. The space celebrates

children, families, and communities present in the classroom through showcasing

their work and art.

Leadership & Management

Program leadership and management are diverse and committed to supporting

employees in maintaining a healthy work/life balance through an integration of

benefits and clear policies and procedures. Likewise, they are dedicated to creating a

dynamic and professional work environment devoted to continual professional

learning.

PROGRAM EVALUATION

Preschool for All will use the program goals approved by the Task Force to design an

evaluation and guide ongoing improvement. To inform that work, Preschool for All

will create an evaluation committee including researchers, parents, providers, and

community members. The evaluation committee’s role will be to help design

evaluation and research plans and review evaluation results prior to release.

Program Goals

●
Children develop pre-academic skills.

●
Children develop socially and emotionally.

●
Developmental screenings are implemented appropriately, and referrals are

made when indicated.

●
The opportunity gap narrows at school entry and 3rd grade.

●
Parents and families are engaged in their children’s learning.

●
Preschool for All develops and retains a workforce reflective of the community.

Evaluation Criteria

The evaluation committee will utilize the following design criteria:

●
Include multiple sources of data and multiple measures including program

level data, child demographic data, data about the workforce, classroom

quality data, and review of Preschool for All administrative practices.

●
All tools must be used for the purposes they were designed for, and data will

be shared with individual programs to support ongoing improvement.

●
Develop comprehensive goals related to families and teachers/providers.

●
Ensure child outcomes are used to assess a full range of developmental and

learning outcomes.

●
Use assessments administered in kindergarten and Grade 3 to measure the

impact of Preschool for All on learning outcomes.

●
Use developmental screening data to ensure programs complete screenings,

share information with families, and use results to improve classroom practice.

Ensure safeguards are in place to reduce the likelihood that data will be used

inappropriately to make decisions about individual children and that

screenings are administered in the child’s native language.

●
Share results aggregated at the population level publicly.

●
Share results aggregated at the program level with Preschool for All providers

to use for program improvement and support.

Implementation Evaluation Focus

To guide ongoing improvement in implementation, Preschool for All will collect data

and develop an implementation evaluation that includes:

●
Access to the program & family satisfaction

●
Children’s learning and development

●
Administrative effectiveness

●
Workforce diversity and wellbeing

Workforce Development

Educators—including teachers, assistants, and in-home providers—are the heart of

high-quality preschool programs. Preschool for All will partner with existing providers

to increase both capacity and quality of preschool programs. Providers will fall into

three groups: Ready to Learn, Ready to Implement, and Ready to Teach. Preschool for

All is prepared to support the participation of providers in all three groups in order to

be successful.

Preschool for All requirements will be transparent and easy to understand. Providers

should be able to self-assess their readiness level and apply for the level of support

they need. The tools and process used to gauge quality and readiness will be

informative, not punitive.

Preschool for All is committed to family choice and to the importance of culturally

specific and responsive settings, including preschools led in diverse languages and

preschools that have a significant proportion of staff of color. These commitments will

be reflected in the provider selection process.

Preschool for All believes that all providers can improve with adequate partnership

and support. Providers who are Ready to Implement and Ready to Teach will be

eligible to receive contracted slots through Preschool for All. PFA will partner with and

give support to providers who are Ready to Learn, so that they can improve their

quality, meet requirements, and become Ready to Implement.

EXISTING PRESCHOOL PROVIDERS

Providers have individual strengths and needs. Each provider’s journey from being

Ready to Learn to being Ready to Implement may be different. Existing preschool

providers who are Ready to Learn can complete the following steps to become Ready

to Implement.

●
Complete a self-assessment checklist on provider requirements.

●
Commit to meet provider requirements within two years. After two years of

coaching and support, Ready to Learn sites need to be Ready to Implement in

order to continue receiving PFA support. If a provider isn’t able to meet that

goal, the coach will create an exit plan and connect the provider with other

resources.

●
Have a license by the time they become Ready to Implement (or if a school

district, follow licensing requirements/process created by the state).

●
Agree to actively participate in regular coaching with the entire staff team,

including center/program leadership.

●
Commit to a coaching plan developed in collaboration with a PFA coach and

to making positive progress on the goals included in the plan. The coaching

plan will include a timeline for a provider making progress on and meeting

each of their goals.

●
Participate in a peer network/community of practice.

●
Participate in PFA professional development.

●
Receive access to funding for training and education.

●
Receive financial incentives for participating in coaching and professional

development, including:

○
Stipends for participating in pre-launch coaching.

○
Funding for supplies.

○
Funding for substitute staff and/or access to a substitute pool in order

to participate in coaching, professional development, and education.

Providers who are Ready to Implement will receive start-up funding for equipment

and supplies before the Fall of 2022 when Preschool for All slots will open. Provider

salaries and requirements take effect when the provider is Ready to Implement and

Preschool For All has a contract with the provider for slots.

NEW PRESCHOOL PROVIDERS

New preschool providers who are Ready to Learn will:

●
Have a demonstrated history of being a culturally responsive or culturally

specific organization.

●
Have a plan to fill a demonstrated preschool need in the community.

●
Agree to participate in regular coaching focused on starting a preschool.

●
Commit to have their preschool operational in two years.

●
Receive funding to support planning and capacity building.

●
Participate in a peer network/community of practice.

●
Participate in PFA professional development.

●
Receive access to funding for training and education (when staff are

identified).

●
In addition, new providers who are ready to implement will receive startup

funding for equipment and supplies. Providers who are adding new preschool

classrooms or expanding their in-home businesses to additional locations will

also receive startup funding.

UNION NEUTRALITY

Multnomah County shall remain neutral with respect to representation and collective

bargaining on matters concerning labor relations for any family childcare provider

participating or applying to participate in the Preschool for All Program, as authorized

by ORS 329A.430.

Multnomah County representatives are currently engaged with AFSCME on a

separate pending labor peace resolution, with the intention of ensuring the workforce

has an appropriate voice in representation and organizing matters.

Appendix A: Preschool for All Task Force, Parent

Accountability Council, and Work Group Members

TASK FORCE MEMBERS

Amanda Whalen​
, Chief Impact Officer, United Way of the Columbia-Willamette

Amy Nash-Kille​
, Senior Manager Research and Evaluation, KinderCare

Andrea Paluso​
, Co-Founder and Executive Director, Family Forward

Andrew Hoan​
, Executive Director, Portland Business Alliance

Carla Piluso​
, Oregon House of Representatives, District 50

Carmen Rubio​
, Executive Director, Latino Network

Diana Nunez​
, President, Hispanic Metropolitan Chamber

Guadalupe Guerrero​
, Superintendent, Portland Public Schools

Jenn Lynch​
, Partner, Portland Seed Fund; Board, Business for a Better Portland

Jessica Vega Pederson​
, Preschool for All Task Force Chair; Commissioner,

Multnomah County

Kali Thorne Ladd​
, Executive Director, KairosPDX

Keith Thomajan​
, Chief Executive Officer, United Way of the Columbia-Willamette

Ken Richardson​
, Superintendent, David Douglas School District

Ken Thrasher​
, Business Leader

Kim Melton​
, Chief of Staff, Multnomah County Chair Deborah Kafoury’s Office

Lee Po Cha​
, Executive Director, Immigrant & Refugee Community Organization

Lisa Pellegrino​
, Director, Portland Children’s Levy

Dr. Lisa Skari​
, President, Mt. Hood Community College

Lydia Gray-Holifield​
, Parent Leader, ELM Parent Accountability Council

Dr. Maggie Bennington-Davis​
, Interim CEO, Health Share

Mark Holloway​
, Preschool for All Task Force Vice Chair; Social Venture Partner

Dr. Marvin Lynn​
, Dean of the Graduate School of Education, Portland State University

Michael Buonocore​
, Executive Director, Home Forward

Michael Lopes-Serrao​
, Superintendent, Parkrose School District

Mystique Pratcher​
, Parent Leader, Albina Head Start Policy Council

Petra Hernandez​
, Parent Leader, ELM Parent Accountability Council

Rachael Banks​
, Public Health Director, Multnomah County

Ruth Adkins​
, Government & Community Relations, Kaiser Permanente

Swati Adarkar​
, President and CEO, Children’s Institute

Tara Cooper​
, Chief Executive Officer, Black Parent Initiative

Tawna Sanchez​
, Director of Youth & Education Services, Native American Youth and

Family Center; Oregon House of Representatives, District 43

PARENT ACCOUNTABILITY COUNCIL MEMBERS

PAC Leaders

Elia Barcamontes​
, Latino Network

Fadumo Mohamed​
, Immigrant & Refugee Community Organization

HappyStar Bravehawk​
, Native American Youth and Family Center

Hawalul Nur​
, Immigrant & Refugee Community Organization

Kathleen Holifield​
, KairosPDX

Lam Hoang​
, Immigrant & Refugee Community Organization

Lydia Gray-Holifield​
, Self Enhancement, Inc.

Oxana Gvozdekov​
, Immigrant & Refugee Community Organization

Petra Hernandez​
, Latino Network

Rayna Thomas​
, Native American Youth and Family Center

Svetlana Litvenenko​
, Immigrant & Refugee Community Organization

Tam Huynh​
, Immigrant & Refugee Community Organization

PAC Staff

Anna Selvanovich​
, Immigrant & Refugee Community Organization

Ayni Amir​
, Immigrant & Refugee Community Organization

Chau Huynh​
, Immigrant & Refugee Community Organization

Lai-Lani Ovalles​
, ELM, United Way of the Columbia-Willamette

Lupe Campos​
, Latino Network

MaryEtta Callier-Wells​
, Self Enhancement, Inc.

Monique Lopez​
, Native American Youth and Family Center

Richarnae Harris​
, KairosPDX

Winter Rose​
, Native American Youth and Family Center

TASK FORCE & WORK GROUP FACILITATORS

Task Force and Policy & Program Work Group Facilitator

Megan Irwin​
, Brave Ideas Consulting

Workforce Work Group Facilitator

Dr. Christyn Dundorf​
, Early Learning Consultant Group and ​
Molly Day​
, ELM, United

Way of the Columbia-Willamette

Infrastructure Work Group Facilitator

Sarah Zahn​
, Urban Development Partners and ​
Margaret Mahoney​
, Enterprise

Community Partners

Finance Strategy & Administration Work Group Facilitator

Ian Galloway​
, Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco

Task Force & Work Group Support Staff

Brooke Chilton Timmons, ​
Multnomah County Department of County Human

Services

Molly Day, ​
ELM, United Way of Columbia-Willamette

Sarah Cohen-Doherty​
, Social Venture Partners

Tia Williams​
, Office of Multnomah County Commissioner Jessica Vega Pederson

WORK GROUP MEMBERS

Policy & Program Work Group Members

Alex Lebow​
, Social Venture Partners

Amy Nash-Kille​
, KinderCare

April Olson​
, Gresham-Barlow School District

Dr. Christyn Dundorf​
, Early Learning Consultant Group

Danita Huynh​
, Immigrant and Refugee Community Organization

Dr. Dawn Hendricks​
, Early Learning Consultant Group

Dee Hayward​
, Immigrant and Refugee Community Organization

Hadiyah Miller​
, Child Care Resource & Referral of Multnomah County, Oregon

Association for the Education of Young Children

Jennifer Scheib​
, Native American Youth and Family Center

Leslee Barnes​
, Village Child Care, Child Care Resource & Referral of Multnomah

County

Lisa Grotting​
, Multnomah Early Childhood Program

Lizzy Tremaine​
, Portland State University

Maria Perdomo​
, Metropolitan Family Service

Marina Merrill​
, Children's Institute

Mary Pearson​
, David Douglas School District

Meg McElroy​
, Portland Children’s Levy

Meera Batra​
, Neighborhood House

Mina Smith​
, ELM, United Way of the Columbia-Willamette

Pam Greenhough Corrie​
, Mt Hood Community College

Robert Cantwell​
, Portland Public Schools

Robert Woods and Kat Simons​
, The International School

Sabrina Ersland​
, Albina Head Start

Sadie Feibel​
, Latino Network

Sara Mickelson​
, Oregon Department of Education, Early Learning Division

Workforce Work Group Members

Abby Bush​
, Oregon Community Foundation

Alise Sanchez​
, Oregon Community Health Workers Association

Ben Anderson-Nathe​
, Portland State University

Christine Waters​
, Child Care Resource & Referral of Multnomah County

Eva Rippeteau​
, AFSCME

Frank Caropelo​
, Reynolds School District

Jamie Rodrick​
, Portland Community College

Joy Jerome Turtola​
, Worksystems Inc

Kim Larson​
, Oregon Center for Career Development

Leisl Wehmueller​
, Immigrant and Refugee Community Organization

Lili Hoag, Kate Newhall, and Regan Gray​
, Family Forward

Rashelle Chase​
, KinderCare

Sabrina Ersland​
, Albina Head Start

Shannon Aden​
, Child Care Business Owner

Soobin Oh​
, Children's Institute

Teresa Gonczy​
, Social Venture Partners

Infrastructure Work Group Members

Afton Walsh​
, Walsh Construction

Amanda Grear​
, ELM, United Way of the Columbia-Willamette

Craig Kelley​
, Kelley Foundation

Dawn Barberis​
, Former Head Start Administrator

Jennifer Marsicek​
, Scott Edwards Architecture

Jessica Conner​
, Portland Housing Bureau

Rachel Langford​
, Home Forward

Louis Fontenot​
, Trammell Crow Company

Mark Holloway​
, Social Venture Partners

Nick Sauvie​
, Rose Community Development Center

Paul Cathcart​
, Portland Public Schools

Tia Williams​
, Office of County Commissioner Jessica Vega Pederson

Finance Strategy & Administration Work Group Members

Aisling Coghlan

Chris Fick​
, Office of County Commissioner Jessica Vega Pederson

Dana Hepper,​
 Children's Institute

Frances Sallah​
, ELM, United Way of the Columbia-Willamette

Jason Hardaway​
, Ciita, Social Venture Partners

John Tapogna​
, ECONorthwest

Larry Fox​
, Social Venture Partners

Mark Holloway​
, Social Venture Partners

Mary King​
, Professor Emerita, Economics Department Portland State University

Molly Day​
, ELM, United Way of the Columbia-Willamette

Nick Gallo​
, Youth Progress

Whitney Grubbs​
, Chalkboard Project

Appendix B: Pre-Referral Committee and Technical

Advisory Committee Members

PRE-REFERRAL COMMITTEE MEMBERS

Mark Holloway​
, Co-Chair

Jessica Vega Pederson​
,​
 ​
Co-Chair; Multnomah County Commissioner

Amanda Manjarrez​
, Latino Network

Amanda Whalen​
, United Way of Columbia-Willamette

Andrea Paluso​
, Family Forward

Chris Tebben​
, Children's Institute Board; Sapient Solutions, LLC

Coi Vu​
, Immigrant Refugee Community Organization

Craig Wilcox​
,  Wells Fargo, Portland Business Alliance

Eva Rippeteau​
, Oregon AFSCME Council 75

Ian Galloway​
, Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco

John Branam​
, Get Schooled

Jonathan Garcia​
, Portland Public Schools

Kali Ladd​
, KairosPDX

Ken Thrasher​
, Retired CEO, Fred Meyer & Compli

Kim Melton​
, Office of Multnomah County Chair Deborah Kafoury

Lauren Johnson​
, Social Venture Partners

Lydia Gray-Holifield​
, Early Learning Multnomah Parent Accountability Council

Dr. Maggie Bennington-Davis/Peg King​
, Health Share of Oregon

Mary King​
, Professor of Economics Emerita, Portland State University

Ricardo Lujan-Valerio​
, Latino Network

Tawna Sanchez​
, Director of Youth & Education Services, Native American Youth and

Family Center; Oregon House of Representatives, District 43

Tia Williams​
, Office of Portland Mayor Ted Wheeler

Toya Fick​
, Stand for Children

TECHNICAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEMBERS

Technical Advisory Committee Members

Amy Nash-Kille​
, KinderCare

Christine Waters​
, Child Care Resource & Referral

Craig Kelley​
, Kelley Family Foundation; Social Venture Partner

Dana Hepper​
, Children’s Institute

Danita Huynh​
, Immigrant Refugee Community Organization

Emily Glasgow​
, Portland Public Schools

Frances Sallah​
, Early Learning Multnomah, United Way of Columbia-Willamette

Hadiyah Miller​
, Oregon Association for the Education of Young Children, Child Care

Resource & Referral

Leslee Barnes​
, Village Child Care, Black Child Development PDX, Early Education

Consulting

Margaret Mahoney​
, Enterprise Community Partners

Mimi Orozco Caravantes​
, Swindells Resource Center

Molly Day​
, Early Learning Multnomah, United Way of Columbia-Willamette

Rachel Langford​
, Home Forward

Regan Gray​
, Family Forward

Sabrina Ersland​
, Albina Head Start

Sadie Feibel​
, Latino Network

Technical Advisory Committee Advisor

Linda Hassaan Anderson​
, Early Learning Consultant, Social Venture Partner

Technical Advisory Committee Facilitators

Brooke Chilton Timmons​
, Multnomah County Department of County Human

Services

Megan Irwin​
, Brave Ideas Consulting

Appendix C: Path to Universality

Preschool for All’s plan is projected to add enough new seats to ​
fully serve all

children in priority populations by fall 2026​
. This assumes 7,000 new slots in

addition to the current 3,116 publicly-funded slots (e.g. Head Start, Preschool Promise).

Preschool for All projects adding enough new seats to ​
reach full capacity by fall

2030​
. This assumes 12,000 new slots in addition to the current 3,116 publicly-funded

slots.

Other assumptions:

●
19,115 3- and 4- year olds by 2025 and 20,213 by 2035, based on ECONorthwest

analysis of ACS data and Portland State University Population Research Center

forecasts.

●
Fewer 3 year olds will participate than 4 year olds; participation rates will also

be influenced by income levels, based on ​
further analysis by ECONorthwest​
.

●
Preschool for All’s saturation rate is approximately 75% with these

considerations.

Appendix D: Supporting Providers & Teachers

Preschool for All provides a living wage for early education workers, who are severely

underpaid and often can’t afford to stay in the field, contributing to higher turnover

and lower quality preschool education. With fair compensation and professional

support, we can keep talented teachers in the field, leading to better outcomes for

children.

Lead preschool teacher

On par with kindergarten teachers

Assistant preschool teacher

Preschool for All defines assistant

preschool teachers broadly, as all

non-lead teaching staff working

working with children in the

classroom in a center or school

model, and working with children in

a home based model, including

teaching staff with titles like

associate teacher, break support

staff, teachers aide.

$18 per hour in 2020 dollars.

Cost of living adjustment​
 (COLA) based on the

County’s Local 88 union-negotiated COLA rate

OR to bring wage to 135% of Portland metro

minimum wage, whichever is greater.

Compensation matrix that adjusts wages to

reflect a minimum assistant preschool teacher

wage that is ​
no less than 75% of a preschool

teacher wage by 2035
.

2

Impact of 75% ratio matrix wage adjustment

The proposed matrix will move assistant teacher wages significantly higher by

2035​
, to reach 75% of lead teacher wages that are on par with kindergarten teacher

wages. As an example, this is what that ratio would look like in 2019 dollars, the last

year kindergarten teacher salary data is available via the U.S. Bureau of Labor

Statistics for the Portland metro area.

Hourly

Annual

Current preschool teacher median wage

$14.96

$31,120

Example of proposed lead teacher wage on par with

kindergarten teacher

$35.73

$74,330*

Example of proposed assistant teacher wage at 75%

ratio

$26.79

$55,747

*2019 Portland metropolitan area median kindergarten teacher wage, U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics

2
 The 75% ratio is based on the ​
2020-21 MHCC Head Start (OSEA) Salary Schedule​
 wage ratio of an Assistant

Teacher 2 with a CDA to a Teacher 1 with an Associates degree, classifications that represent Preschool for

All credentialing requirements at Program maturity. Comparing both low to low and high to high wages for

these two classifications produced a ratio of an assistant teacher making 73% of a lead teacher. We’ve

rounded up to 75%.

This wage represents a ​
significant increase from today’s average wages​
, while

avoiding extreme wage disparities that threaten the viability of the infant/toddler

childcare market or create a liability for providers under Oregon’s Pay Equity Act.

Starting in ​
2023​
, the minimum wage in Oregon—and the Portland metro area—will

be indexed to the US City average Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers.

Preschool for All’s approach—growing wages based on a union-negotiated COLA,

with the back stop of a tie to the minimum wage—is intended to provide ​
stronger

long-term wage growth.

AFSCME Local

88/Multnomah County

Contract — July 1 COLA

Increase

US City average

Consumer Price Index

for All Urban

Consumers (CPI-U)

20-year average

(2001-2020)

2.48

2.13

10-year average

(2011-2020)

2.29

1.74

Median increase over

last 20 year

2.70

2.10

As a backstop, Preschool for All also includes a wage floor of 135% of local minimum

wage. In 2022, this means the assistant teacher wage will be at least $19.91.

Wage Growth Simulations

While no one can predict what the exact CPI or COLA figures will be each year in the

future, we do have year to year historical data we can look to, to see how the

preschool assistant teacher wages would rise.

Aligning 2020 with 2008 (Great Recession)

A simulation of wage growth using year-to-year CPI and COLA figures from

2008-on—aligning 2020 with 2008, when numbers began to reflect the impacts of the

Great Recession—shows an example of wage growth we might see over the next

decade. In this scenario, wages under the updated proposal exceed Preschool for All’s

prior wage proposal and Universal Preschool NOW’s proposed wage in 2031 and

beyond.

Local 88 July 1

COLA

CPI-U

Portland Metro

Min Wage

3
Original PFA

Proposal

4
Current UPN

Proposal

5
Updated PFA

Proposal

6

2008

2.7%

3.8%

$13.25

$19.21

$18.00

2020

2009

2.7%

-0.4%

$14.00

$20.30

$18.90

2021

2010

2.7%

1.6%

$14.75

$18.44

$21.39

$19.91

2022

2011

1.2%

3.2%

$15.18

$18.98

$22.01

$20.50

2023

2012

0.0%

2.1%

$15.47

$19.34

$22.44

$20.89

2024

2013

3.3%

1.5%

$15.69

$19.98

$22.75

$21.58

2025

2014

2.7%

1.6%

$15.92

$20.52

$23.08

$22.16

2026

2015

2.1%

0.1%

$15.93

$20.95

$23.10

$22.63

2027

2016

1.0%

1.3%

$16.12

$21.16

$23.38

$22.85

2028

2017

2.2%

2.1%

$16.44

$21.62

$23.83

$23.36

2029

2018

3.6%

2.4%

$16.80

$22.40

$24.36

$24.20

2030

2019

3.9%

1.8%

$17.08

$23.28

$24.77

$25.14

2031

2020

2.9%

1.2%

$17.27

$23.95

$25.05

$25.87

2032

3
 ​
In 2023, Oregon minimum wage growth is tied to US City average Consumer Price Index for All Urban

Consumers (CPI-U); Portland Metro minimum wage is $1.25 higher. The average annual growth rate of this

CPI wage index over the last 20 years was 2.12%.

4
 $18 per hour (2022 dollars), with cost of living adjustments (COLA) based on the County’s Local 88

union-negotiated COLA rate, and floor of 125% of local minimum wage. The average annual growth rate of

the wage index over the last 20 years was 2.48%.

5
 $18 per hour now (2020 dollars), and floor of 145% of Portland Metro area minimum wage.

6
 $18 per hour now (2020 dollars). Cost of living adjustment based on the County’s Local 88

union-negotiated COLA rate OR to bring wage to 135% of Portland metro minimum wage, whichever is

greater. Does not reflect impact of wage matrix 75% ratio by 2035.

Appendix E: Projected 5-Year Budget

Utilizing the PFA Task Force report as a foundation, the Technical Advisory Committee

continued to refine programmatic and implementation details. Department of

County Human Services (DCHS) staff used the TAC decisions to build the budget

framework. Within each budget area, consultation with other jurisdictions

implementing preschool,  preschool providers, and subject matter experts locally and

nationally shaped the estimate. DCHS finance staff analyzed the budget to determine

accurate costs for county staffing and overhead. The budget went through many

iterations as new information and feedback emerged that would improve Preschool

for All for families and providers and build an equitable and efficient system.

Operating Reserve

●
In the early years of PFA, we are setting aside an operating reserve fund of 15%

of annual revenue.

●
After 5 years, PFA transitions to an ongoing reserve fund set-aside of 10% of

annual revenue.

Program Quality & Capacity Building

●
Includes coaching, program staffing, professional development, provider

supports

●
PFA is committed to recruiting providers who reflect our community and to

giving families options that best meet their needs. There will be a strong focus

on recruiting BIPOC providers to become PFA providers.

●
PFA will include coaching and support for providers who don’t yet meet

Preschool for All requirements in order to grow an inclusive and diverse

system.

Administration & Accountability

●
Includes admin staff, tax collection costs, evaluation and auditing

●
Tax collection—through the City of Portland, which is also administering

Metro’s high-income earner tax—is the largest expense

Infrastructure Supports:

●
There is $25 million set aside in the first 5 years of the budget for infrastructure.

●
This funding includes low or no-interest loans and grants for providers.

●
A key staff member for Preschool for All will be tasked with implementing

infrastructure and business development supports for providers, including

work with the city to ease the process for providers to improve and expand

their space.

●
The cost per preschool space varies widely depending on the setting type, so

it’s not possible at this time to say exactly how many classrooms/preschool

spaces/renovations will be possible with the $25 million budget.

●
PFA also hopes to leverage philanthropic and governmental partnerships to

deepen infrastructure investments and incentives and to utilize multiple

strategies, such as low or no-interest loans and grants, to support a wide range

of providers and infrastructure projects.

●
PFA will prioritize access to capital for small providers.

Preschool Access & Infant/Toddler Slot Protection

●
Preschool Access covers the cost of preschool slots, modeled on a range of

$14,000 to $20,000.

●
Slot cost will vary by provider type. Preschool for All is seeking equitable results

for children and families, and the inputs to get these results will differ

depending on the assets and resources of provider types. For example, this

means that school districts will receive less funding per slot than a child care

center or in-home provider.

●
We anticipate that in-home providers and preschool centers offering

year-round 9-10 hour per day programming will receive approximately $20,000

per fully-funded slot in 2022.

●
Providers of the same type offering the same services (# of hours, calendar

year) will receive the same base compensation amount. There may be higher

compensation amounts for providers offering specific supports, like

transportation, and for providers serving infants and toddlers (see below, Infant

and Toddler Slot Preservation Fund).

●
Preschool for All does not have specific staff ratio requirements above

licensing guidelines. PFA Coaches will focus on the overall quality of the

program, including the relationships between staff and preschoolers,

partnerships with families, teaching practices and support for staff. Adding

additional ratio requirements could have the unintended consequence of

disrupting a provider’s existing business model and staffing structure, leaving

them with less funding per classroom or increasing the overall cost of the

program.

●
PFA will recruit a wide range of providers that can meet the needs of families.

Providers whose business model incorporates preschool on weekend days will

be encouraged to participate. If weekend days emerge over time as a

significant need from families, PFA will develop strategies, including possible

incentives, to increase the number of slots that include weekend days.

●
During Preschool for All’s implementation—2021 and early 2022—providers of

all different types will continue to be engaged, including on slot rates before

they are finalized.

●
This fund also covers the costs of outreach and enrollment support for families.

●
Infant and Toddler Slot Preservation Fund includes up to $25 million per year

as the program matures and the overall number of slots increases. Specific

strategies will include financial incentives for providers offering infant and

toddler care that allow for wage increases for child care staff working with 0-2

year olds.